The Holocaust is a subject so vast, so brutal and so uncompromisingly repulsive that it has defeated almost every director who has dared take it on: even the most confident film-makers seem to quail before the terrifying responsibility of massacre, torture and sadism – and, essentially, pull their punches. This applies as much to the hyperreal dynamism of Schindler’s List to the eyes-averted sentimentality of Life Is Beautiful, to the maudlin strains of The Pianist. Only documentaries – Alain Resnais’ haunting Night and Fog, the epic Shoah, the recently reconstructed German Concentration Camps Factual Survey – have got close to penetrating the mysteries of this most cataclysmic of human horrors.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Son of Saul: exclusive trailer for Oscar-winning Holocaust dramaSon of Saul star: ‘God was holding the hand of every Jew in the gas chamber’ But documentaries can only tell you so much; all they can deal with is what has been left behind. Which is where Son of Saul comes in: this is a drama that pitches you, with no fear whatsoever, right into the centre of the hellish maelstrom of a Nazi death camp, its screaming chaos, piled-up corpses and deathly panic. With a camera shoved permanently right in the face of its central character – a Sonderkommando gas chamber attendant called Saul – this is raw, pitiless cinema, where the trauma and dysfunction of the camp inmates, as well as the unimaginably gruesome nature of their day-to-day living conditions, is made overwhelmingly clear. Leading actor Géza Röhrig turns Saul – who is seeking to extend his certain-to-end lifespan by a matter of days, even hours, to try and track down what he suspects is the body of his son – into a death-haunted figure comparable to a living ghost. No one can know for certain what went on in this nightmarish subworld, but this film has a conviction and plausibility in its detail that means its impact is overwhelming.But Son of Saul, which won an Oscar for best foreign film, never indulges in anything so unthinking as unvarnished realism: its pushed-in camera means that its horrors are conveyed mostly off camera and around the edges, via sound, snatched glimpses, blurry unfocused details. It’s fashionable to call this kind of cinema “immersive”, but that does Son of Saul a disservice: it’s not some sort of theme-park ride. This is cinema as a living nightmare, from which it is impossible to awake. Quite where writer-director László Nemes (this is his first feature film), found the guts to do it is another question. But it’s no fluke, as his short film With a Little Patience shows. With Son of Saul, Nemes has achieved something genuinely extraordinary; in its ability to approach and apprehend the most ruinous tragedy of our age, he has succeeded where many others have failed – or at least come up short. Shockingly, it was passed over for the Palme d’Or at Cannes, but Son of Saul should go down as one of the best films of the decade.The 50 best films of 2016 in the UK