Tom Neenan: The Andromeda Paradox, BathIn a world where any hipster with a fondness for craft beer and Star Wars can claim to be a geek, Doctor Who obsessive Tom Neenan is the genuine article. Previously, he was half of sketch duo The Gentlemen of Leisure, who specialised in daft yet cerebral humour. His former partner Nish Kumar is now a rising solo star thanks to his politically charged standup, while Neenan’s work has become ever more gloriously esoteric. As part of the annual Bath comedy festival, which runs to 10 Apr, he’s performing this spoof/tribute to BBC black-and-white sci-fi of the 50s and 60s. It’s the sort of thing that will delight devotees of semi-forgotten shows like The Quatermass Experiment and A For Andromeda, and it’s already won praise from no less a luminary than outgoing Who showrunner Steven Moffat. It’s got appeal for a wider audience too, thanks to the sustained and consistent brilliance of his comic writing.  Ring O Bells, WedNamedroppers: Reginald D Hunter On Censorship & The N Word, LondonIt is sometimes said that trying to analyse comedy ruins it for everyone. And that may be true, in so far as learning or understanding anything about anything can really spoil the fun of staring in slack-jawed incomprehension at the world as it passes you by. Those with a little more curiosity are likely to find plenty to interest them at Namedroppers, a newish club night where comics are grilled about their career and approach to their art form. Comedy promoter and performer Joel Sanders plays host, having already persuaded big names such as Harry Hill and Barry Cryer to submit to his interrogation. This week it’s the turn of the reliably incendiary Reginald D Hunter. There should be plenty of interesting ground to cover, given Hunter’s penchant for unapologetic truth-telling and willingness to push taboos (this is, after all, a man who’s used the N-word in four of his previous live show titles). There may also be time to discuss the sublimely hysterical imbroglio that occurred when Hunter was accused of racism by that shining chapel of political correctness, the Professional Footballers’ Association.Backyard Comedy Club, E2, WedFoil, Arms & Hog: Skiddlywup, On tourWhile there have been plenty of Irish standups who’ve managed to make it big in the UK – from Dave Allen through to Dara O Briain – the same isn’t really true of Irish sketch comedians. Shows like Scrap Saturday or Après Match may have become massive hits in Ireland over the years, but they’ve tended to almost completely pass Brits by. Foil, Arms & Hog are a trio hoping to buck the trend, and their new tour provides a chance to sample their infectiously energetic brand of comedy. There’s a lot of stuff mocking aspects of their home country – specifically, their home city of Dublin – but the broadness of their humour and their overall enthusiasm makes the material accessible to all. These guys are well capable of aping the success of Jason Byrne, a similarly rough-and-tumble Irish performer whose warm earthiness creates a big bond with his audience.Vicar Street, Dublin, Sat; The Cookie, Leicester, Thu; Norden Farm Arts Centre, Maidenhead, Fri; touring to 27 May