Chris Huhne, the UK's energy and climate secretary  Chris Huhne. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PAThis is a significant step forward in curbing emissions to tackle global climate change. For the first time we've seen major economies, normally cautious, commit to take the action demanded by the science. The EU's proposal for the roadmap was at the core of the negotiations and the UK played a central role in galvanising support. This outcome shows the UNFCCC system really works and can produce results. It also shows how a united EU can achieve results on the world stage and deliver in the UK's best interests.Christiana Figueres, UNFCCC executive secretary  Christiana Figueres. Photograph: Alexander F. Yuan/APThere are still many details to be hammered out, but we now need to start negotiating the new legal agreement as soon as possible and there are still many details to be hammered out.I salute the countries who made this agreement. They have all laid aside some cherished objectives of their own to meet a common purpose - a long-term solution to climate change. I sincerely thank the South African Presidency who steered through a long and intense conference to a historic agreement that has met all major issues. And a selection of Figueres' tweets: In honor of Mandela: It always seems impossible until it is done. And it is done!#COP17 remarkable new phase in climate regime. Critical next step, and still insufficient. Must continue raising ambition.Listen up!We have Kyoto CP2, path toward future with legal force for all, Green Climate Fund full implementation of Cancun package! Connie Hedegaard, European commissioner forclimate action  Connie Hedegaard. Photograph: Georges Gobet/AFP/Getty Images[The] EU's strategy worked. When many parties after Cancun said that Durban could only implement decisions taken in Copenhagen and Cancun, the EU wanted more ambition. And got more. We would not take a new Kyoto period unless we got in return a roadmap for the future where all countries must commit. Where the Kyoto divides the world into two categories, we will now get a system that reflects the reality of the today's mutually interdependent world. And as we are interdependent, what we promise to do must have the same legal weight. With the agreement on a roadmap towards a new legal framework by 2015 that will involve all countries in combating climate change, the EU has achieved its key goal for the Durban climate conference.Tosi Mpanu-Mpanu, head of the Africa GroupIt's a middle ground, we meet mid-way. Of course we are not completely happy about the outcome, it lacks balance, but we believe it is starting to go into the right direction.Jacob Zuma, president of South Africa  Jacob Zuma. Photograph: Rodger Bosch/AFP/Getty ImagesThe outcome in Durban is a coup for Africa. Issues that had taken so long to resolve have been resolved on our soil. We are very happy and proud of the South African team that worked so hard with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to make Durban succeed (UNFCCC). This is a moment of glory for South Africa and Africa.Ruth Davis, Greenpeace UK chief policy advisor This deal is a lot better than no deal, not least because it scuppers George Osborne's push to gut domestic environmental action on the altar of international inertia. That said, we can't keep coming back to these annual talks to agree deals that fall so far short of what the science, rather than the politics, requires. Every December the mismatch grows between what the world is committing to and what nations should be delivering. In the current vernacular, we're kicking the climate can down the road.The political signal delivered by Durban is more powerful than the actual substance of the agreement. A new progressive alliance of over one hundred vulnerable countries, backed by the European Union, demonstrated that there's massive appetite for an ambitious legally binding climate deal covering all the major polluters. Such a deal moved a small step closer in Durban, with agreement to negotiate towards it in 2015. In political terms, this was a defeat for the campaign that's been waged against multilateralism by the U.S. and its allies for years. It also saw the big emerging economies locked more firmly into taking action to cap their emissions than ever before. But the Durban Platform still includes wording that could be exploited by the U.S. and its allies to push a voluntary rather than binding approach, and risks locking in the current inadequate level of carbon cuts for a decade.In many ways the Durban deal is a snap-shot of the changing global climate politics. It includes good elements but there are huge battles to be fought and tough choices to make if the UN process is to keep us below a four degree rise in temperatures, let alone the stated aim of two degrees.Richard Gledhill, partner, PwC sustainability and climate change  Richard Gledhill. Photograph: PwCWhile we now have a road map and an ambitious timetable, the precise destination remains unclear. Even the length of the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol was parked. Many countries had wanted five years to 2017, but this would be inconvenient for the EU, with its 20% reduction target by 2020.There is still a 40% gap between the 2 degrees climate goal and emissions targets through to 2020. Reaching 2 degrees will require a revolution in how we produce and use energy."Damian Carrington, the Guardian's head of environmentGetting 194 nations to agree on anything with legal force, as happened in Durban, is an achievement, as is the rejection of the alluring calls to abandon the UN as the place to solve this global problem.But the brutal truth is that our leaders lack the political will to do what is necessary. The delay in Durban means politicians have deepened our titanic environmental overdraft. That debt will fall to the next generation to pay, but as Lehman Brothers and Greece showed us, debts are not always honoured.In the economy, banks can create new money and recessions can double dip. In the real world, thanks to climate tipping points which turn modest temperature rises into searing ones, we cannot afford to dip at all. One deep climate "recession" will destroy the lives and livelihoods of many for ever.• Keith Allott, Head of Climate Change at WWF-UK  Keith Allott. Photograph: WWFGovernments have salvaged a path forward for negotiations, but we must be under no illusion - the outcome of Durban leaves us with the prospect of being legally bound to a world of 4C warming. This would be catastrophic for people and the natural world. Governments have spent crucial days focused on a handful of specific words in the negotiating text, but have paid little heed to repeated warnings from the scientific community that much stronger, urgent action is needed to cut emissions.Many countries came in good faith to seal a deal, but have been stymied by a handful of entrenched governments who have consistently resisted raising the level of ambition on climate change.The fight will not stop here. One crumb of comfort in Durban has been the emergence of a large coalition of high ambition countries, led by the most vulnerable nations and small island states, including many in Africa. It's good that the UK and EU have aligned themselves with this coalition, but Europe must urgently convince the world that it is serious by increasing the ambition of its painfully weak emissions target for 2020 to at least 30% below 1990 levels. By doing so, the EU would actually benefit its own economy - saving billions on imported fossil fuels and creating the springboard for green growth and new green jobs.Alden Meyer, director of strategy and policy at the Union of Concerned ScientistsWhile governments avoided disaster in Durban, they by no means responded adequately to the mounting threat of climate change. The decisions adopted here fall well short of what is needed. It's high time governments stopped catering to the needs of corporate polluters, and started acting to protect people.The impacts of climate change are ever more evident, and we pump ever more carbon pollution into the atmosphere each year. We are in grave danger of locking in temperature increases well above two degrees Celsius, which would foreclose our ability to avoid the worst impacts of climate change.Powerful speeches and carefully worded decisions can't amend the laws of physics. The atmosphere responds to one thing, and one thing only – emissions. The world's collective level of ambition on emissions reductions must be substantially increased, and soon.Achim Steiner, Unep executive director  Achim Steiner. Photograph: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty ImagesThe outcomes of Durban provide a welcome boost for global climate action. They reflect the growing, and in some quarters unexpected, determination of countries to act collectively. This provides a clear signal and predictability to economic planners, businesses and investors about the future of low-carbon economies. A number of specific commitments agreed in Durban also indicate that previous decisions on financing, technology and Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) are moving to implementation.The big question many will ask is how this will translate into actual emission reductions and by when? Whatever answer will emerge in the coming months, Durban has kept the door open for the world to respond to climate change based on science and common sense rather than political expediency.Mikhail Gorbachev, founding president of Green Cross International  Mikhail Gorbachev. Photograph: Detlev Schneider/Vanit/RetnacelebsIt is unacceptable that world leaders are still stalling on a global plan to cut emissions of carbon to curb the increase of temperatures. We witnessed in Durban wrangling and hair splitting over legal terminology, as well as bald-faced delaying tactics that threated to derail the negotiations. The decision-makers must wake up to the fact that the lives of billions of people today and in the future depend on them to act in unison to respond to the global challenge that climate change poses.Murray Worthy, World Development Movement policy officerDeveloped countries have behaved shamefully, blocking meaningful progress on tackling climate change. They have refused to acknowledge their historical responsibility for the crisis, either by agreeing to reduce their emissions or by providing finance to help developing countries deal with climate change. These talks have been held hostage by the EU. It seems EU countries came to Durban to impose a deal, not negotiate one. The spectacular failure to achieve an outcome on the most urgent issues puts the world on course for devastating climate change, condemning those least responsible to greater hunger, poverty and ultimately, death.The Kyoto Protocol is now only a shadow of what it was and the second commitment period will be its last. There is nothing more than hope in a new deal to replace it, a deal that could well be based on the weak ineffective voluntary approach first put forward at Copenhagen, and that would come into force too late to have any chance of avoiding the most devastating impacts of climate change.Oliver Hughes, student activist at COP17 for SustainUS As bleary-eyed negotiators emerged from their hotels on Sunday morning, they found that the storms of the previous two days had given way to brilliant sunshine and a clear sky here in Durban. UN pronouncements claim that the impossible has been made possible, and that tomorrow has been saved, today; headlines are cautiously optimistic; the UNFCCC process seems to have been given a fresh lease of life. There may be a period in which we begin to believe that something real was accomplished here.Let me be clear: this was not enough. Not even close. This was meeting expectations lowered beyond all expectations. Rescuing defeat from the jaws of worse defeat. In the long-run, Durban will be nothing but a footnote in a narrative of missed opportunities and willful ignorance.The youth of the world cannot and should not accept what Durban delivered. We're sleepwalking towards calamity, and the world's governments just agreed to wake up at some point down the line.