I’m the fourth funniest person in my family, but No 1 for confidence. For years, Daddy was the funniest, but at 97 his memory is a bit off. I’m the youngest of nine children, although my eldest sister died in 1949 and I had another who died six years ago. My brothers and sisters are so much older than me that they were more like parents than siblings, especially my sisters. They shaped me. They all pitched in to fund my education and decided what experiences I would have, how I would spend my summers.I grew up in a sleepy place called Albany in Georgia. As a teenager, I played basketball and baseball. I liked Saturday Night Live, chess and girls. My desire to act came from years of watching television. I was a 1970s child and grew up watching Star Trek, The Six Million Dollar Man and Man from Atlantis. By the time I was 18, I was a good mimic.Until I was six, my mother and I were best buddies. Then my teens hit and my mom was terrifying. She regularly hit me over the head. My British friends keep telling me she was abusive, but I disagree; she only punished me when I had crossed a line. It was also the culture of the time. My mom was of the “spare the rod, spoil the child” school of thought.Reginald D Hunter webchat – as it happened When I came to England, I was angry with my mother. I probably even hated her some. Since her death in 2006, I’ve started not only to understand her, but like her. A lot of the things I used to find really cruel about her, I just find hilarious. Sometimes you have to leave your home before you can fully make sense of it.My father was 50 when I was born. Even though he was 19 when he sired his first child, it was only when I came along that he became interested in being a father. I got the best of it. Daddy always made me feel that no matter what I asked him, he would give me a truthful answer. When I was 15, Momma said something really cutting to him and when she left the room I asked why he let her do that. He said: “When I was a young man I messed with a lot of women – and a few of them were your momma’s friends. Most of that stuff was 40 years ago, but in her soul it feels like yesterday. Whenever possible I let your momma have a little bit.” He taught me that at some point you have to answer for what you’ve said and done.When I got a place at Rada in 1997, I took my parents out to dinner to tell them. My father said: “Well, son, you ain’t married, you ain’t got no kids, if you’re going to do something like this, now’s the time.” My mother said: “I just hope it works out better than it did the first time you left home.”My family doesn’t mention my success – it’s the elephant in the room. It saddens me because they don’t know how good I am at what I do.There’s not a week goes by when I don’t ask myself whether I’ve paid too high a price for my career. I’ve given a lot to this job and I’ve made a lot of people who have tried to become attached to me learn to be patient. The truth is it doesn’t matter whether or not it’s true because it’s too late – I’m in it now. It can get a bit lonesome sometimes.I’ve always gravitated towards the unusual. I’ve tended to choose women who are anomalous in some way: the women who have been the ones at the back of the room, just observing quietly. They have great stories. Getting married, going off into the sunset and having a couple of kids is just one ideal. That, in itself, is not my ideal. But never say never.• Reginald D Hunter will be touring the UK in his new standup show, Some People v Reginald D Hunter, until 24 June; reginalddhunter.com