Gary Richards is battling middle age as hard as he can. The former party host at the heart of the 90s rave scene in Los Angeles, he’s now 46, a dad, and a multimillionaire promoter whose rave empire was bought out in 2012 by a multinational corporation. But that doesn’t mean he’s slowing down. His just-released EP as Destructo, his DJ name, is called Renegade, to reflect his position as an artist who does things his own way. “I don’t put up any rules or walls,” he says. “I don’t feel that my sound is one style of music. It’s a smattering of lots of different things.”The same could be said of his role as a genre-defying promoter. When he founded Hard 10 years ago, Richards anticipated EDM’s explosion in America before almost anybody else, and in the process has achieved nearly unrivaled success. But the music’s ascent has paralleled a different, terrifying trend: the recreational drug landscape has begun to change dramatically. New, unregulated chemicals manufactured in China have come to America and can often be found on the electronic music scene, including everything from so-called “bath salts” to deadly stimulants and amphetamines. The result has been a vast, uncontrolled cultural and pharmaceutical experiment with a rising death toll. And Hard has become a staging ground for the experiment.EDM's 'summer of death' reporting is more than just tabloid raving At Hard Summer 2014, one person died; at Hard Summer 2015, two people died; at Hard Summer 2016, three people died. All the deaths were drug-related, with “ecstasy” usually cited as a contributing factor. This doesn’t tell the full story, however, as the chemical in pure ecstasy, MDMA, only rarely causes death on its own; instead, factors such as overheating and dehydration are often contributing factors in rave settings. The deaths mean that Richards and his events are at the center of a moral panic over EDM and its relationship with drug use. Following the 2016 deaths, the Los Angeles Times reported on Hard Summer under a pair of headlines referencing the “summer of deaths”. Richards, who believes he’s doing everything he can to keep the kids who attend his events safe, is exasperated. “I feel like I’ve done so much good for so many people and it never gets reported,” he says. “You’re trying to keep a Tic Tac out of an event with 150,000 people.”Few doubt Richards’ resolve. At Hard, attendees routinely miss favorite DJs waiting in line while security (sometimes flanked by sniffer dogs) perform searches. And it’s clear that the longtime promoter – who once worked A&R under Rick Rubin – is less interested in mindless, drug-fueled bacchanals than thoughtfully curated, genre-defying concerts. (His aesthetic tastes are reflected in his new EP, which features collaborations with hip-hop heavyweights including Pusha T and Too $hort. Call Destructo’s music g-house or house-rap.)But forces beyond his control have made his day job a public relations nightmare. Following the deaths at Hard Summer 2016, a San Bernardino county supervisor renewed her call for a rave ban at a local amphitheater. That year, Richards decided to halt his long-running Halloween EDM event, called Hard Day of the Dead – a move which Richards’ publicist attributes to a focus on moving Hard Summer to a new venue.These giant American raves have been contentious for years; the most popular of them all, Electric Daisy Carnival, was moved from LA to Las Vegas following the 2010 overdose death of 15-year-old Sasha Rodriguez.Richards and others claim electronic dance music is unfairly targeted, that such colossal events are always at the mercy of uncontrollable forces. “Shutting this stuff down doesn’t do anything. That’s not the problem. It’s like putting a Band-Aid on a broken arm,” argues Kaskade.But it’s nonetheless clear that the majority of EDM deaths – at least 29 since 2006 at events put on by LA-based promoters, as tallied by the Los Angeles Times – are tied to the drugs used by eventgoers. Electronic music has been linked to ecstasy since it first gained popularity in the US in the 80s. But at huge EDM events – especially in southern California – shade is sometimes difficult to come by, and attendees using ecstasy often get dehydrated. (Dehydration was a factor in Rodriguez’s death.)Richards and others have worked hard to educate kids about these issues, as well as installing water stations and other forms of aid. But there’s another problem: MDMA in the US is often cut with a melange of mystery chemicals. Some of these fatal new drugs, such as PMA and PMMA, are sold as ecstasy, and have killed hundreds around the world. Such chemicals are largely unknown, befuddling everyone from first responders to the promoters themselves. “You’re asking the wrong guy. I wouldn’t even know how to comment on that,” Richards says when I ask him about these new drugs at his festivals. “We try to stop everything from coming in.”He’s well aware, however, of a sophisticated response system to identify these noxious chemicals that is being used all over Europe, and would love to implement it himself. The only problem? It’s banned in the US.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hard Summer festival. Photograph: Chelsea Lauren/Rex/ShutterstockRichards came up with the name of Electric Daisy Carnival, the country’s biggest rave, which drew 400,000 attendees to Las Vegas last July and has iterations all over the world. The festival is run by the Los Angeles promoter Pasquale Rotella, who has gone on to become even more famous and successful than Richards, and sold about half of his events company to Live Nation for about $50m in 2013. This sale made him Richards’ boss, though Richards, who sold Hard to Live Nation in 2012 for an undisclosed amount, still maintains day-to-day control over the festival. Richards and Rotella have together helped define live EDM in America. But their success has come at the same time as renewed focus surrounding deaths at festivals. American versions of Electric Daisy Carnival have suffered 10 deaths since 2006.The US is not unique in this regard, of course. Europe has seen plenty of rave deaths as well, but its response has been quite different. Many European countries have embraced what’s known as a “harm reduction” model, where ravers can have their drugs inspected right at the concert – to see if they’ve got, say, actual ecstasy, or a dangerous knock-off. A Denver-based harm reduction group called DanceSafe would like to check drugs at raves, using the same model. But they aren’t allowed to do so at Hard Summer or Electric Daisy Carnival. It’s not necessarily that Richards or Rotella don’t want them there. But a 2003 federal law known as the Rave Act – intended to curb the abuse of drugs like ecstasy – has given American promoters pause, because it has made it a crime for them to knowingly host events where controlled substances are used or sold.“I definitely know that if we could do harm reduction, and it was allowed, we would do it,” says Richards. “I’ve been to other festivals in Canada where they do it, and I know they find all kinds of things in those pills. We would love to be able do that if we’re allowed to, but we can’t.”Richards finds himself at an impasse, basically helpless as the events to which he’s dedicated his life continue to take lives from young fans. And so, at a time when he should be on top of the world, Richards remains frustrated, both by the tragedies and the fact that the press won’t stop talking about them. “I just try to do music, man. It’s beyond me how this issue gets pinned to this music. I look in the paper and see these 200 ODs in West Virginia in a week,” he says. “It’s a way bigger issue than just what’s going on at a festival.”There’s truth to what he says. And indeed, scores of kids walk out of Hard Summer every year with life-changing memories. But as long as others aren’t walking out at all, this issue isn’t going away.