A historic grade I-listed house and its garden is not for the faint-hearted, especially when both are in a serious state of decline. Although the garden at Rymans, in the village of Apuldram, West Sussex, had near-perfect growing conditions, with its good, loamy soil and 600 years of cultivation, its potential was well-disguised when Suzanna Gayford moved in 21 years ago. The walled garden included a plantation of overgrown Christmas trees that had passed their harvest date, as well as a monstrous concrete fruit cage, described by Gayford as “the size of an elephant” and overrun with bindweed.“You’ve never seen anything like it,” she says now. “The roots were like coils of rope – we’re still dealing with their offspring.” Before Gayford could use her creative architect’s eye to design a new garden, the entire area had to be cleared and taken back to bare earth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tulipa ‘Brown Sugar’ . Photograph: MMGI/Marianne MajerusToday, that same walled garden is a perfect balance of specimen trees, flowering shrubs, immaculately trimmed topiary and generous herbaceous borders set among lawns. A central path leads through a striking, black-stained wooden arbour designed by Gayford and inspired by the outline of nearby Chichester’s ancient market cross. Beyond the arbour, the borders are punctuated by rows of coppiced limes which draw the eye through gates in the garden wall to an avenue of majestic black poplars, Populus nigra.At this time of year, tulips in zingy citrus colours erupt from the emerging foliage of herbaceous plants that include hardy geraniums and penstemons. Meticulously pruned and trained hybrid musk and tea roses are sculptural presences, now just showing the first touch of leaf colour. They are accompanied by neat hummocks of the colourful evergreen shrub Nandina domestica ‘Fire Power’, evenly spaced along the borders, and a carpet of self-sown forget-me-nots adds further early colour. In the wider garden, blossom-laden magnolias contrast pleasingly with the neat shapes of topiarised weeping silver pears (Pyrus salicifolia ‘Pendula’) and standard privet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Brown Sugar’ and ‘Apeldoorn’ tulips beneath lime trees at Rymans. Photograph: MMGI/Marianne MajerusAlthough the walled area provides the most intensive hit of spring colour, the garden at Rymans is far larger, covering between five and six acres. To the front of the property is a formal box parterre – a perfect setting for the oldest part of the house. Its restrained planting is in marked contrast to the ebullience of the walled garden. Later in the year, the parterre is a suntrap where grevillea, myrtle, pittosporum and other tender shrubs add colour and fragrance. Behind the house lies an informal garden with a wide expanse of lawn bordered by trees and shrubs, leading to an eye-catching, butter-yellow summerhouse.The rest of the garden is “under supervision, rather than cultivation”, Gayford says, including three paddocks where mown paths wind through swaths of naturalised narcissus. Most of these predate her arrival, and she has no idea what varieties they are. “A previous owner was related to the Dorrien-Smith family, owners of Tresco on the Isles of Scilly, and her father was a very keen narcissus hybridiser,” Gayford says. “I think he may have planted some of ours – there are certainly some very unusual varieties. I have added to them masses of the native Tenby daffodil, Narcissus obvallaris. It is low-growing and short-lived, but I think it deserves a place in every garden.” She has also planted snake’s head fritillaries, Fritillaria meleagris, which have naturalised readily in the damp meadow conditions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Snake’s head fritillary. Photograph: AlamyGayford selects her tulip varieties – in a palette of reds, oranges and yellows – to bloom simultaneously in late April and early May. Resisting the temptation of the bulb catalogues, she sticks to five tried-and-trusted varieties for the walled garden, chosen in part because they will naturalise. “Unless you are a public garden,” she says, “you really can’t afford to dig up your tulips and replant them every year.“‘Apeldoorn’ is a favourite, and very reliable,” Gayford adds. “Others I love are ‘Ballerina’, ‘Beauty of Apeldoorn’, ‘Marit’ and ‘Brown Sugar’. We try to increase the display each year, and we always have an emergency supply growing in pots, so if the worst comes to the worst, we can plug them in.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Salmon Impression’ and ‘Negrita’ tulips with euphorbia. Photograph: MMGI/Marianne MajerusThis belt-and-braces approach is worth adopting no matter how big your garden – it allows you to fill in gaps where marauding squirrels have made off with bulbs, or where poor autumn weather has interfered with planting. The only time it failed at Rymans was when the walled garden flooded: tulips hate to be waterlogged, so a huge number were lost and a major replant was needed.Once the tulips have finished flowering, they are deadheaded and left to die back, their fading leaves soon hidden by the maturing perennials and roses. The forget-me-nots are pulled up and their place taken by plants for summer colour, including cleome, rudbeckia, cosmos, Ammi majus and dahlias.Over the centuries, this garden has passed through many changes; now, under Gayford’s guiding hand, it has never looked better.How to get your garden ready for spring Suzanna Gayford’s top tulips‘Apeldoorn’ Strong-stemmed Darwin hybrid with long-lasting dazzling red flowers and prominent black anthers.‘Beauty of Apeldoorn’ Tall, sturdy, golden-yellow Darwin hybrid with egg-shaped flowers that are flushed with red.‘Marit’ Primrose-yellow Darwin hybrid with cranberry-red veining and a touch of violet.‘Brown Sugar’ Sturdy, coppery-bronze, mid-season Triumph with a subtle scent.‘Ballerina’ Lily-flowered, with rich, tangerine-orange flowers and a delicious, freesia-like fragrance.• Rymans is open as part of the National Gardens Scheme on 22-23 April, 17-18 June and 16-17 September, 2-5pm; entry costs £5 (children free); go to ngs.org.uk for details.