Is Britain suffering from succession anxiety? The teenage lives of the country’s longest-serving monarchs, Queen Victoria and Queen Elizabeth II, are soon to come under scrutiny in rival royal television dramas. Two lavish series will aim to draw the loyal audience that watched last year’s hit BBC2 Tudor court drama, Wolf Hall, as well as the millions still in mourning after the end of ITV’s costume extravaganza, Downton Abbey.First comes ITV’s new eight-part costume drama Victoria, screened later this month. Then, in the autumn, a £100m 10-part blockbuster, The Crown, written by Peter Morgan, about the current Queen, will be launched by Netflix. But the arrival together of two high-profile productions about such beacons of British continuity is, according to historians, more than a coincidence. It is a symptom of a condition gripping the national psyche.“Our renewed interest in these two young women, who then held the throne for such a long time, is surely part of what can be called our “succession anxiety,” said academic Sarah Richardson. “It is a feeling which comes around when a nation has started to face the thought that there might be instability ahead. It will give both these dramas extra meaning, as we watch the princesses face up to their roles as monarchs, added to the obvious dramatic appeal of seeing them handle teenage problems and emotions.”From Tardis to the palace: a first look at Jenna Coleman as Queen Victoria The Queen has, of course, beaten Victoria’s regal record, notching up more than 63 years on the throne. The television dramas will chart their respective journeys into the world of duty, court politics and international diplomacy.Prof Rohan McWilliam, outgoing president of the British Association for Victorian Studies, agrees that both series tap into the same national mood. “They surely map on to each other. It is part of an effort to understand royal youth, as we come to a point where, inevitably, we will have to consider the end of a long reign and the beginning of a new one,” he said.Both productions boast a slew of popular talent, including a leading role for a former Doctor Who, Matt Smith, who plays the Duke of Edinburgh to Claire Foy’s Elizabeth in The Crown, and for one of the Doctor’s former assistants, Jenna Coleman, who plays the lead role in Victoria. It is part of an effort to understand royal youth, as we come to a point where one reign ends and another beginsProf Rohan McWilliam Opposite Coleman as Prince Albert is Tom Hughes, with Peter Firth and Nichola McAuliffe as the Duke and Duchess of Cumberland. While in The Crown, Dame Eileen Atkins will play Queen Mary, Jared Harris is King George VI, Alex Jennings is the Duke of Windsor, Vanessa Kirby is Princess Margaret and Ben Miles plays the object of her ill-fated love, her father’s equerry, group captain Peter Townsend.Two of the pivotal roles in both scripts, however, are those of the powerful prime ministers who are shown guiding their young queens. In Victoria, the influential and charming Lord Melbourne is played by Rufus Sewell, while in The Crown the crucial role of Winston Churchill has gone to an American, John Lithgow. The part these two mentors played in shaping the monarchy is the source of drama in both series, particularly in Victoria, where there is strong historical evidence to support the idea that the young queen was smitten with her first minister.Richardson hopes this element is not overplayed. Victoria, she believes, was sheltered but was not the dupe of Melbourne. “She made some mistakes, but I don’t think that means she was just in thrall to him. And even in the case of Elizabeth II, it might be more accurate to show them as manipulators themselves, rather than just being steered by an older man.”Richardson, from Warwick University, is an expert on the 19th century who specialises in the history of women and the monarchy. She confirms a key premise in the ITV series, that Victoria was overprotected during her childhood at Kensington Palace. “She led this secluded lifestyle partly because George IV was pretty nasty, and partly by design, because her mother believed it was almost better for her to be disengaged from the world she might have to enter.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Foy as the young Elizabeth II in The Crown Photograph: NetflixThe political worlds that the two fledgling monarchs entered were very different, Richardson points out. There was no simple two-party system when Victoria took power. “The conflict between the Whigs and the Tories was there, but it was much more about influence and personality than party loyalty and the queen had an impact on those machinations. I have always thought that Victoria was more politically astute than is popularly believed. She used here youth as a cover sometimes,” she said.Victoria, written by the television producer and novelist Daisy Goodwin, will also focus on life below stairs, with Eve Myles starring as Mrs Jenkins the queen’s senior dresser. Goodwin intends to show class distinctions and draw drama from the interactions between staff and the aristocracy, much as Downton Abbey did. She has also written many of the innovations of the era into the script, emphasising the stamp Victoria put on the modern age – quite literally in the case of the Penny Black.“The ITV drama fits with our recent fascination with Victorians, who seem the same to us, but are different somehow,” said McWilliams. “They share our interest in the new, in technology. And there is also, possibly, a Kate Middleton effect here. We have all watched the recent example of a young woman adopting that royal mantle and there is a move now not to see Victoria as just the great frump of the popular perception of her widowhood. She was actually something of a Sloane Ranger in her youth, with a love of the theatre too. It was Albert who was the real Victorian, at least in the sense that we now mean it. Hard working and principled.”Morgan’s drama about Elizabeth II, put together with director Stephen Daldry following their collaboration on the award-winning stage show The Audience, will give viewers a glimpse of the kind of courtly high stakes that formed the core of the widely admired Wolf Hall, in which Foy starred as Anne Boleyn. Each episode is framed around a crisis, such as Suez. A sequel series covering the next phase of the Queen’s reign in another 10 parts is due to go into production soon.