Inside North Korea: Panorama8.30pm, BBC1Reporter Rupert Wingfield-Hayes was thrown out of North Korea in May while researching this episode, and it doesn’t half give the resulting film some urgency. Such an outcome is especially desirable where North Korea is concerned: the restrictions placed on visiting media do otherwise tend to result in extremely similar dispatches, though the sheer oddness of the place rarely fails to provide grimly compelling viewing. Andrew MuellerThe Somme 1916: From Both Sides of the Wire9pm, BBC2The conclusion of Peter Barton’s illuminating analysis, which reassesses the first world war’s most awful episode by astutely using maps, overhead drone footage and Barton’s own tour of the battleground, as well as archive material. The final phase saw the arrival of tanks, but their power was soon lost as the British were sapped strategically by intelligence leaks, and physically by the deepening, unforgiving mud. Jack SealeThe Girl from Ipanema: Brazil, Bossa Nova and the Beach9pm, BBC4They have a saying in Brazil: “Music is samba, and samba is God.” And bossa nova, “a branch on the great tree of samba”, is exemplified by those “three sublime minutes” that once made the whole world go “Ahhhh”. In this lovely study of the jazz-influenced art form, Katie Derham travels to Rio to show there’s more to that song than lift muzak, meeting key musicians and the girl in question, Heloísa Pinheiro. Ali CatterallEden9pm, Channel 4The Love Island-in-Gore-Tex vibe diminishes this week as the wilderness survival challenge gets serious. The group are now too busy pondering different ways of serving potatoes to think about romance, and it’s getting worse; for all that the group seemed formidably well-resourced at the outset, a year is a long time. Weight loss and fatigue are kicking in, tensions are growing and, increasingly, it’s no longer just lone wolf Anton thinking of striking out on a solo mission. Phil HarrisonBrief Encounters9pm, ITVThe enjoyable 80s-set drama about Ann Summers reps continues. Tonight, Dawn and Russell’s wedding reception provides a fitting backdrop for the show’s emotional narratives. London copper Johnny continues to hold a candle for Steph, but still gets a Margaret Thatcher-style glare from Pauline (Penelope Wilton) when he attempts to broach their shared secret. Kieren (Don Gilet) shows true grit and, of course, this being a wedding, there is a punch-up. John RobinsonTyrant9pm, FoxTurmoil in the fictional Middle Eastern state of Abuddin. With Jamal having been shot, it means that his brother Bassam, formerly Barry the US-based paediatrician, is now interim president. He’s all set, in his calm, Americanised, humanised way, to introduce democracy to the country with the help of Daliyah. But the army are in a vengeful mood and demand to be placated if they’re to be kept onside. And all that’s before a general who has history with Leila arrives from the US. David StubbsMade in Chelsea: South of France9pm, E4 Tether your yachts and charter a chopper: the posho scripted-reality behemoth is off on a trip to Cannes. When the glamorous cast are riled, they’re as vicious as a pack of poodles after a run-in with a hair straightener, so expect drama galore. Slippery eel Stephanie tries to clear the air with trouble-magnet Tiff. Over in likable chaps corner, blond bombshell Jamie’s old chum Francis Boulle makes an appearance. Hannah VerdierFILM CHOICERed Sorghum (Zhang Yimou, 1987), 1.50am, Film4Set in poor, rural northern China circa 1930, Yimou’s drama opens like a folk tale, with widowed heroine Gong Li finding true happiness with the man who raped her just before her wedding: they make red sorghum wine together, until it turns to bitter dregs under the savage Japanese. There’s an evocative timelessness in Li’s luminous features, and in the hauntingly photographed sorghum fields. Paul HowlettLIVE SPORTInternational Cricket West Indies v India 3.55pm, Sky Sports 3. The third day of the second Test comes from Kingston’s Sabina Park, with the guests already in imposing form.Speedway Wolverhampton v Coventry 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1. The Wolves face the Bees in this Elite League contest from Monmore Green.Major League Baseball 12midnight, ESPN. An as-yet undecided fixture.