Hip-hop musical Hamilton and tours by Adele, U2 and Take That are among the latest must-see events to be seized upon by touts, hoovering up tickets at the expense of ordinary fans. But how do they get their tickets, is it legal and what can be done about it?What is secondary ticketing?When tickets go on sale for an event – Adele at Wembley Stadium for instance – this is known as the primary market. If somebody who has a ticket decides to resell it, they are using the secondary market. Usually this is done via one of the “big four” secondary ticketing websites, Viagogo, StubHub, GetMeIn and Seatwave. The latter two are owned by Ticketmaster, which is in turn owned by LiveNation, the world’s largest concert venue company.While some fans use these sites because they have accidentally bought too many tickets or can no longer attend an event, secondary sites have become a haven for full-time ticket touts looking to trade tickets for a profit.Some touts also own independent companies, specialising in particular areas such as theatre, front-row seats or corporate hospitality.Ticket touts rebrand as investigations put them in spotlight Who are the touts?Some are former touts of the old school, who have migrated from pounding the pavement outside venues to become so-called “armchair” operators. Others are tech-savvy youngsters who have used their computer skills to latch on to a quick and easy way to make money. Many are based overseas.How do they get tickets?One popular method is to use multiple credit cards to buy as many tickets as possible when they go on sale. Some touts have super-fast internet connections that help them beat fans to the punch, while others multiply their chances of getting tickets by employing people to man the computers.Some pay fan club fees to gain access to tickets. Others use bots, automated software designed to automatically harvest dozens of tickets within a matter of seconds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tickets for hip-hop musical Hamilton’s London run were offered for resale for as much as £3,000 on the same day they were officially available. Photograph: Joan Marcus/APDo secondary sites try to stop touts?For the most part, no. Most secondary sites have a roster of major touts known as power sellers or brokers. Usually the website will employ several “account managers”, whose job it is to keep the touts happy and help them sell seats.In some cases, the most powerful touts get paid in advance for tickets they are yet to sell, effectively short-term loans to help them ply their trade. Some resale sites also offer “broker tools” – software touts can use to manage their inventory of tickets.Is ticket touting illegal?There is no specific ticket touting offence but touts do risk falling foul of a number of laws designed to protect consumers.Some experts believe that buying tickets for the purpose of reselling them at a profit breaches the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. These state that nobody should masquerade as a consumer when they are in fact acting for the purposes of trade. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 requires sellers to say who they are, publish contact details and list information such as the seat’s face value and its location. Until recently, when secondary websites were faced with a Competition and Markets Authority investigation, very few published this information. Many tickets are still advertised without it.Are touts the only problem?Far from it. Evidence has been mounting that some promoters and managers are funnelling tickets direct to the secondary sites without ever advertising them to touts or to ordinary fans. What’s being done about it?HM Revenue & Customs is looking into whether touts are declaring how much they make from the trade.The Competition and Markets Authority has launched a separate inquiry into secondary ticketing, including whether touts are breaking the law by failing to disclose their contact details and information about the ticket when they advertise events on secondary sites.MPs are also considering a specific criminal offence targeting the use of bots, automated software that some touts use to harvest the best tickets at the expense of fans. However, some in the industry believe the use of bots may already be covered by the Computer Misuse Act.How can I avoid touts?If you didn’t get tickets when they went on sale never fear, there are alternatives. For a start, ticketing companies often fail to mention that the first release of tickets will be followed by further staggered releases.Another way to beat the touts is to use a service specifically designed to undermine their business. Companies such as Twickets, Vibe Tickets and Scarlet Mist offer a ticket return service for fans who have bought a ticket but genuinely cannot use it. The ticket will be sold at face value or less. Fans can also buy tickets through services such as Songkick, which works with artists to try to keep as many tickets as possible out of the hands of touts.• This article was amended on 26 January to make it clear that Vibe Tickets and Scarlet Mist do not charge commission