 “Please don’t kill me.” Her voice was shaking.My heart ached. “No. We won’t hurt you.“Padma, what do you remember?” I whisperedShe shook her head “I don’t want to remember”I stroked her hair, feeling the fear rise in her.”Siren is an interesting tale about the Sirens of the sea. The Sirens’ job is to lure boats to their death by singing with their poisonous voices; their voices are deadly, and even a word to any human can send them to the water. The Sirens have learned to live in silence, but then Kahlen meets a boy. Kahlen has always served the ocean and lived by the rules to be silent and avoid too much human interaction, but this boy does not care that she cannot speak and Kahlen is struggling more than ever to live by the rules….I quite enjoyed this book as it had a wonderful story, and the bonds between the characters are absolutely infectious. The author has developed a mind-blowing story around a beautiful romance and the creativity clearly stands out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The story has been laid out so that you are interested at all times, and after each page you can never wait to turn to the next one. I enjoy stories like this, but for people who prefer full-on action, it may be a slightly little slower beat for them. This is one of those books that also makes you think in different ways, and it can cloud the area of what is right and wrong but not in a bad way. I would describe this book as romance and fantasy, and though many people would call it a romance, I was surprised to find that there is more of a story than a romance and there is a lot more to the book than meets the eye.But the highlights of the book that no one can miss are the strong friendships between the main characters. It is more of a sister bond, and the characters are closer than any friendship that could possibly be. It is beautiful and heartbreaking at times.I would recommend this book for ages 12 and up, for the Sirens’ job is extremely intense and all the death could be too much for many people. There are only a few parts where it really gets intense, but for sensitive people it could put you off. I was not bothered by this, but it does keep your mind on it for a while.This book is for people who enjoy romance, fantasy, and legends. I would give it a 4 stars and encourage people to read it.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!