I put my JustGiving page together one night in February, in about the time it takes to check Facebook after a day at work. It was easily the best 10 minutes I have ever spent.As a fan of The Archers, I had listened for months as smooth-talking snake-oil merchant Rob Titchener slowly crushed the life out of his partner, Helen. Rob had slowly shut down every aspect of Helen’s life that he no longer agreed with: her friendships, her money, even her son, Henry; all of it nothing for her “to worry about” any more. The slow burn of the show made it excruciating listening: a slow-motion car crash was unfolding. The Archers: call to help domestic abuse victims as Titchener trial starts Helen was clearly in a lot of trouble. Why couldn’t someone – anyone – help her? Which is when it suddenly dawned on me one night after a particularly harrowing episode. Why couldn’t it be us? Why couldn’t the audience set up a real rescue fund for real women, on behalf of Helen Titchener? I thought if I was really lucky and managed to get some traction on social media, we could, perhaps, make £1,000 over a few weeks, which would be amazing. I quickly set up the JustGiving page for a fictional character, sent out a few speculative tweets, confessed that I may have gone a teensy bit mad to my friends on Facebook – and sat back. As notifications for the first £10 or £20 started to flow in almost straight away, I stared at them in astonishment. By the time I went to bed just after midnight, I had already hit the original target, just three hours after I launched it. I poured myself a stiff drink to celebrate and put the target up to £3,000. Later the next day, we hit that too. For at least the first month the campaign (as it quickly became) took over my life. I was constantly checking my phone, which was constantly beeping with notifications of new donations, retweets and media enquiries. My wife, family (and employers) all had to put up with me being less than “present” through at least the first six weeks and I couldn’t have done any of it without their support. It was exhausting and exhilarating, but a day spent with the brilliant team at Refuge HQ in London left me determined to keep the fund going. There I learned that if my final target of £150,000 is reached, and along with the gift aid, it will fund nearly 3,000 nights in a refuge for a family.So far, in just eight months, the Helen Titchener Rescue Fund has channelled a gobsmacking £135,000 and vast reserves of goodwill in the direction one of the country’s great unsung charities. It’s become part of a national conversation about domestic abuse and attracted support from everyone from Sir Patrick Stewart to Jo Brand to Frank Cottrell-Boyce. Jo Brand (@iamjobrand)Please help @RefugeCharity & @paultrueman74 support women escaping #domesticviolence https://t.co/AmXnSwAmnv #TheArchersFebruary 5, 2016Honestly though? Before this I had no real knowledge of domestic abuse. Not really. I was woefully ignorant about the damage being done to so many lives by coercive control, for example. But the comments left with each donation have helped educate me. From heart-stopping testimonies from survivors to searingly painful memories of those who were not so fortunate, the page has collected them in their thousands.Paul Trueman (@paultrueman74)Love this comment from a donation for @RefugeCharity over the weekend at https://t.co/SgJfrRN25c #thearchers pic.twitter.com/FdeOq3QipuJune 20, 2016So many donations to the memory of friends, daughters and mothers who were in these kind of relationships. The real Helens. The real Henrys. Those who got out “in time” and those who didn’t. Those who realised and those who didn’t. Those who could help, and those who couldn’t. Paul Trueman (@paultrueman74)To the thousands of lovely people donating to https://t.co/SgJfrRN25c, here's why Refuge is so vital. #thearchers pic.twitter.com/djFSYG7J6zMay 19, 2016There was the single line, left anonymously, that simply read “For our daughter” that hit me like a train one morning at work when I read it on my phone. Or the time I was in the pub with a friend as a donation came in on Mother’s Day, and we both tried not to tear up as we read the anonymous words left with the money: “For my mum, no longer here on Mother’s Day. Sorry I wasn’t brave enough to let you know I was a ‘Helen’, though I think maybe you guessed. I do hope you somehow know I’m free now. Love you always x.” Or this one:Paul Trueman (@paultrueman74)There really is nothing I can add to this. https://t.co/SgJfrS4CWK @RefugeCharity #thearchers pic.twitter.com/OvXyq3FFjqMarch 3, 2016The fund has had donations from a freemasons’ lodge, been given the winnings from a pub quiz team, and even a whip round from a group of friends who were out for dinner one night. We’ve had donations from £2 to £1,000 and every single one of the nearly 7,000 donations has meant a huge amount. And there’s also been the wonderful Free The Blossom Hill One merchandise organised so brilliantly by Michael Moran and Susan Waters (and her team) at Cotton Roots that has seen all the funds go to Refuge. Lidl Kim (@lidlkim)My #FreeTheBlossomHillOne bag is heavy. It's, like, a metaphor for Helen's burden #thearchers pic.twitter.com/qhgSw7FJ61May 14, 2016And we’re not quite done. Money is still coming in from amazing people, as are the comments. As The Archers storyline reaches its conclusion this month, I would dearly love to hit the final target.Helen might not be real, but thankfully the money is and so is the difference it will make to thousands of families. You can donate to the Justgiving page and also support Refuge by buying Fairtrade Archers merchandise. Keep up to date with the campaign by following Paul on Twitter: @paultrueman74. The day I made a difference is the Guardian Voluntary Sector Network’s series that showcases the work of people involved with charities. If you have a story you want to share email voluntarysectornetwork@theguardian.com with a short summary of your experience.For more news, opinions and ideas about the voluntary sector, join our community - it’s free!