Rhys James is a stand-up comedian, gag writer, and a prolific tweeter. The Guardian caught up with the 25-year-old during his Edinburgh Festival run to talk youth, food hang-ups, and his early start as a student comic.How’s Edinburgh treating you?It’s not too bad, but all the rain and wind makes it hard to enjoy it fully. The walk to the show doesn’t put you in a great mood. And when you’ve got audiences queuing to get in, they come into the gig unhappy, so you’ve basically got your work cut out.Not good. What do you do if everyone’s miserable?I just... smile more? Anyone playing at the Fringe who you’d consider a comedy hero? 'Every comedian on TV was a middle-aged man'Rhys James Louis CK is one of my favourite comics, though I haven’t tried to be like him like I used to with others. When you’re first starting out, your influences are the comics whose voices you try to emulate. Jimmy Carr was the one when I was brand new. You were only 17 at that point.My first gig I was 17, yeah. I’d had my braces taken off the day before. It went OK, but everything I did was gags I wrote while watching Jimmy Carr’s DVDs. It was all dirty, one-liner stuff that didn’t really suit me. I quickly realised you’ve got to find your own thing. Russell Brand was another influence, and Demetri Martin. But Jack Whitehall was the reason I did it so young, because there were no young comics on the TV when I started. I knew I wanted to do comedy, but I thought I wouldn’t do until I was 40 or something. Every comedian on TV was a middle-aged man. But then Jack Whitehall went on telly and I looked him up and I saw that he started when he was 17. So I thought: “Oh right, I’ll just start now then.”How hard is it to be funny when you’re playing to audiences older than you?It certainly gets easier the older I get, but that’s because of the experience. You just play it differently, basically. I went to university in Manchester and that’s where I did my first three years of comedy – I started out doing gigs in villages on the outskirts of the city. I’d turn up at these places, where there were all much older, northern crowds, and I’d always think: “Oh god, I’m not going to do well here.” So for the first couple of years, youthfulness was my thing. But obviously youth has a sell-by date. I like it when there’s a mix in the room of people my age and people my parents’ age, and that’s when the routine really flies, because we’re all getting something different from it.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Being young has still been a big part of your act, though, such as the gags about Umbro trainers and your lack of life experience. And the spoken word poetry routines are pretty youthful.I actually find that the older generations like the spoken word stuff more than the younger ones. If you’re rhyming quickly, it’s much easier to impress a mum than someone who listens to Kanye West.Were you one of those kids who smarms up to their friends’ parents when you were over at their house?Yes. I was always referred to as “polite”. Though they didn’t like me that much because I was picky with food. I didn’t like wet food, and I didn’t like things touching each other. That’s pretty much all food. I think I’m over it now... But I still don’t like baked beans.How to work for your festival ticket What’s the deal with baked beans?It’s too wet. I can’t get on board with it. It’s nothing. It’s pathetic.You left Manchester in 2012. Were you a big name on campus?Not at all. There were loads of people at Manchester doing comedy. No one knew who I was. Not even on my course – I didn’t go to many lectures.Where were you?I was just in bed. I was in a weird position where I was already doing comedy so I just wanted to be a comedian. I didn’t want to get up and talk about globalisation after a late night, gigging. I lived a 100-meter walk from the Manchester Comedy Store, where they’d have a 10-minute spot, unpaid, for people to try out. I did that loads of times and got friendly with the guy who booked them. People would bottle it a lot and not turn up, so whenever that happened they would phone me and I’d just wander down there and do that, while my flatmates were at the pub.No drink, no drugs: what's drawing young people to teetotal festivals? What’s your advice to wannabe comics?It helps to record things and listen back to them. Sometimes you realise that you’re emulating someone too much. You take someone’s little catchphrases or tics. It was Nick Helm for a little while, where everyone was going on stage and shouting “this is happening!” and it didn’t sound like them. You also hear people saying “guyyys” like Carl Donnelly does. It’s hard to realise that you’re doing it. But you can hear it if you listen back. I’d say that’s the most efficient way to get better, although it’s excruciating. You ended up with a 2:1 in politics and international relations, which isn’t too bad...I still don’t know anything. I didn’t care enough about the theory. The other politics students in my seminars were just too pretentious. And writing the dissertation was awful. I got a stomach ulcer writing that.Rhys James: Forgives is at the Pleasance Courtyard at 4:45pm until 28th August with an extra show at 9:45pm on Friday 26th August 