All through childhood, I dressed up. My Christmas present was always a new dressing-up outfit, that my mother – who was a brilliant seamstress – would make herself. At playgroup the woman who ran it took my parents aside one day and said, we love it when Anthony comes in dressing-up clothes, but it would be really nice to meet Anthony himself one day – he gets absolutely immersed in whatever character he’s dressed up as.My father [Seafield Laurence Stewart Murray Head] was a documentary film director and producer, and my mother [Helen Shingler] was an actress. People think that must have made it easier for me to become an actor, but actually, that’s nonsense. My mother said, well, if you must, and my father said I needed to have a second string to my bow, so if I didn’t succeed at acting, I’d have something else I could do. Bless his heart, he was fairly controlling.My relationship with my brother [the actor Murray Head] didn’t start well. My parents brought me home from hospital on his birthday, 13 days after my own birth. I’d had to stay in hospital because I got whooping cough. Needless to say, I didn’t go down that well with my brother. I was not the best birthday present.Acting was there in the very essence of the way we lived. When my brother was quite young, my mother would go off doing films and acting in the theatre, but by the time I was born, she was at home much more and would do more TV. We’d talk a lot about acting and when we watched drama on TV, we’d analyse it deeply afterwards as a family, ad nauseum. Consequently, I got a real mindset about “real acting” and not going over the top.After I got the part of Rupert Giles in Buffy the Vampire Slayer, I lived in Los Angeles for five years, while my partner Sarah and the girls – Daisy was four and Emily was six – stayed in England. I’d try to go home to them every three or four weeks. The production team would work dates around me, and every time I got the chance to have six days clear, I’d get on a plane. Anything less than six days was disruptive – I’d have to leave as soon as they were getting used to having me around. I’d hit the ground running, take over from Sarah, take the girls to school and do as much as I could before I had to go back. I spent quite a lot of money on air fares, but we made it work.I can’t put into words how much I missed my family when I was in LA. Even now, I feel emotional about it. It was a real test. I owe an enormous amount to Sarah. She knew I’d always wanted to work in America and when I got the chance, she said, go for it, I’ll hold the fort here. In hindsight, it gave us all a wealth of opportunity, Buffy ran for seven seasons and I had the best time of my life. There were moments, though, when I thought I was insane and I would really struggle. I’d put the song Highway, Highway by Stephen Allen Davis on in my car, and just sit there and weep.When I called my parents to tell them about my new job as Giles, I told them Buffy was brilliant, but at the same time it was really funny. My dad said, ah, the problem with comedy is that all your best bits will end up on the cutting-room floor. He was trying to shield me from disappointment. But you can’t protect your children in that way. You simply end up becoming a disappointment yourself. Instead, all you can do is encourage them and be there to support them if their choices don’t go the right way.• Anthony Head stars in the new British thriller The Brother, which opens on 16 September. 