When it comes to climate change adverts, we’ve seen everything from melting polar bears to electricity conscious orangutans. But which ones really stood out from the rest? Campaigns by 350 and Liberate Tate proved popular among our readers and followers, so here’s the full top 10 as decided by you:10. WWFThere’s no denying that WWF has produced a staggering number of climate change campaigns over the years, featuring evocative images from displaced seals sleeping on park benches to Tarzan swinging across a barren rainforest. The one that has lodged itself firmly in Julie Mollins’s mind is the picture of a shadow where a tree once grew. She says: I like this advert as it shows the importance of trees in the urban landscape. It reminds me of places I’ve lived where trees die or disappear.  Photograph: WWF9. GetUp! Action for AustraliaOver 600,000 people have joined GetUp!, Action for Australia’s movement to make democracy participatory. One of its biggest campaigns is a bid to protect the Great Barrier Reef. A recent petition to their federal environment minister has attracted some 120,000 signatures. @jongray1963 tweeted us to say: I like the campaign because it's independent, seeks to educate, and inform governments. It has been effective: a good example of change from below.  Photograph: GetUp! Action for Australia8. Fossil FreeFollowing environmentalist Bill McKribben's mantra that 'if it's wrong to wreck the climate, it's wrong to profit from that wreckage,' the Fossil Free campaign attempts to get public institutions, such as universities and churches, to stop using fossil fuels. With supporters encouraged to set up their own individual campaigns, Louise Hazan, who works on Fossil Free, says: It’s inspired by the divestment movement that succeeded in bringing down the South African Apartheid regime in the 80s. This campaign uses divestment [depriving someone of power, rights, or possessions] as an innovative tactic to politically bankrupt the fossil fuel industry and remove its social license to continue fuelling climate change.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 7. Greenpeace and TckTckTckReforming policy is crucial to stopping climate change, so Greenpeace and TckTckTck teamed up in 2009, they had their eyes firmly set on leaders attending the COP 15 conference in Copenhagen. The billboard campaign featured the likes of Barack Obama and Angela Merkel as imagined in 2020. TckTckTck's executive director Kelly Rigg told us: I thought these ads were very powerful because they held individual leaders personally responsible for their actions. They offered an opportunity for leaders to choose a more positive future by acting in the present.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Greenpeace and TckTckTck6. Many Strong VoicesThe Arctic often features heavily in global warming adverts, but what campaigns are created in the region themselves? Many Strong Voices brings together inhabitants of the Arctic and small island developing states to address the threat of climate change, and bring security and sustainability to coastal communities there. Alex emailed in this comment: Many Strong Voices is a really powerful project. The voices of affected communities are, in general, absent from most climate change campaigning, but here, people who are affected by climate change speak for themselves about what it means to them.   As a result of climate change, the sun now hits north Greenland one day earlier than it did previously. Photograph: Many Strong Voices5. Loess Plateau watershed campaignThe 2009 film, Lessons of the Loess Plateau, looked at the large-scale environmental restoration project undertaken by the Chinese government and the World Bank in the China’s northern region. Over the past one hundred years, the plateau has suffered from accelerated soil erosion as unsustainable agricultural methods were introduced, leading major organisations to join the movement for it to be restored. @AlexJFrench thought it was one of the most pragmatic campaigns around.  Photograph: World Bank/Loess Plateau Watershed Campaign4. WWFAnother memorable ad from WWF: ‘Stop climate change before it changes you.’ The campaign depicts an uncomfortable reverse-evolutionary world, and the image below, launched in 2008, remains one of its most hard hitting.  Photograph: WWF3. Connect4ClimateVery rarely do organisations hand over creative control to students from around the world, but Connect4Climate did just that with its iChange competition. In a blog for the network, programme manager Lucia Grenna wrote: When made aware, students are able to articulate and amplify climate change messages...we set out to harness their peer power and facilitate students' ability to promote action, offer solutions, and inspire real change.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 2. Liberate TateAnti-oil activists Liberate Tate have gained notoriety for their attempts to stop the art gallery receiving funding from petroleum company BP. Their acts of ‘creative disobedience’ have included a naked man being covered in oil and carting a 1.5 tonne wind turbine blade into the gallery’s main hall. Kevin Smith shares: What I love about Liberate Tate is how they have used performance art and social sculpture as the centre plank of their campaign: it’s daring and creative.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 1. 350The Climate Name Change campaign is one of the most unique and visually impressive environmental ads. Its aim is to stimulate debate by replacing the names of natural disasters like Sandy, Ivan and Katrina with the names of climate change 'deniers' from the US government. Though it was David Gravina's suggestion, the campaign is a fast favourite with our readers. Here's why David thought it should be number one: 350 continues to inspire and impress me. I showed this video to an audience of designers here in Australia and it went over very well - it’s a brilliant campaign.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Now over to you. Which climate change campaigns have made you stop and think? Let us know in the comments below.