Beatrix Potter told a young fan in 1908 that she was “trying dreadfully hard to think about another story about ‘Peter’” because “all the little boys and girls like the rabbits best”.Begged by her young correspondent, “dear little William Warner”, for another story featuring Peter Rabbit, who at that point had featured in Potter’s first book, 1901’s The Tale of Peter Rabbit, and 1904’s The Tale of Benjamin Bunny, Potter told him that she had been attempting to write one, but had not yet succeeded. She wrote: “I thinked and thinked and thinked last year; but I didn’t think enough to fill a book! … So I made a story about Jemima Puddleduck instead – and it will be in the shops very soon. I hope you will like it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Another page from Beatrix Potter’s letter Photograph: The SaleroomIn the letter, which goes on sale from Saturday at online marketplace The Saleroom with an auction estimate of £4,000 to £6,000, Potter goes on to write about the house where she is staying, which has “lots of wild rabbits in the garden”.She tells William, accompanying her four-page letter with illustrations of the rabbits, that “there is a quite black rabbit who lives at the top of a bank opposite my bedroom window”, and “when I am dressing in the morning I can see him sitting on a stump washing his face with his paws”.“I have got a rabbit, but it is brown; I call it Joseph. It is very tame & licks my hands, but I think if it got out, it would run away into the wood. It lives in a hutch and has a nice little yard where it can run about and eat grass,” she writes, adding that she also owns “a little brown mouse called Dusty”, which is “running about the table while I write, it has been sniffing at this letter. I am sure it wants to send its love to you!”Potter would go on to write about Peter again in The Tale of the Flopsy Bunnies, which was published in 1909, and which sees the character as an adult, with a nursery garden of his own from which his cousin Benjamin borrows cabbages to feed his own family of Flopsy Bunnies. “Sometimes Peter Rabbit had no cabbages to spare,” writes Potter. “When this happened, the Flopsy Bunnies went across the field to a rubbish heap, in the ditch outside Mr. McGregor’s garden.”Peter Rabbit also has cameo appearances in other Potter tales, featuring prominently in The Tale of Mr Tod – helping Benjamin Bunny rescue his children from the badger Tommy Brock – and appears briefly in The Tale of Mrs Tiggy-Winkle, as a customer of the hedgehog washerwoman. The 150th anniversary of Potter’s birth is being celebrated this year with events ranging from a new 50p coin from the Royal Mint featuring Peter Rabbit to the publication of a lost story by the author featuring “a well-behaved prime black Kitty cat, who leads rather a double life”, newly illustrated by Quentin Blake.