Like Coco Chanel, Sonia Rykiel, who has died aged 86, went into fashion to provide herself with garments she could not otherwise obtain. She had no design training and not much ambition, but in 1961 she charmed the suppliers to her husband’s family-owned boutique in Paris into making maternity dresses for her that, radically, revealed her bump, and thus scandalised her mother-in-law. Later, she asked a representative from an Italian machine-knitwear company to make a sweater modified from one Rykiel was wearing – she wanted it smaller, with a high armhole and tight sleeves.The prototype went back and forth between Paris and Venice seven times before the perfect “poor-boy sweater”, skinny-ribbed and striped, arrived in the shop. A staffer from Elle happened to be present: Françoise Hardy modelled it for the magazine’s cover, Brigitte Bardot and Audrey Hepburn bought several, and other knitwear companies struggled and failed to reproduce Rykiel’s novel approach. As Chanel had elevated jersey from a utilitarian textile for underwear to a fashion fabric, so Rykiel (along with the Italian Missoni family) extended its use into the basis for her oeuvre over more than 40 years: clothes for adult women, with her attitude built into their construction. Women’s Wear Daily called her “Queen of the Knits”, but she confessed she didn’t know the pointy end of a knitting needle from the blunt.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sonia Rykiel, right, at her workshop in 1975. Photograph: MUUS/Sipa/Rex/ShutterstockShe had not had to learn. Her father was Alfred Flis, a watchmaker from Romania; her mother, Fanny (nee Tesler), was Russian, a lady of leisure; and Sonia was the eldest, reddest-haired and most dramatic of five chic sisters. As an artistic Jewish family, they kept a low profile in the Neuilly-sur-Seine suburb of Paris and houses in the country during the second world war, discreet if not quite in hiding. Afterwards, Sonia’s only job was a stint window-dressing in her teens: Henri Matisse bought most of her display of scarves. Her marriage to Sam Rykiel, in 1953, led to the life of shopping, not running a shop, for which she had been raised.In the years after the poor-boy sweat- er, she designed a couple of dresses and a raincoat, also for Sam’s boutique, Laura, which attracted many American customers. Named-designer prét-à-porter was emerging in Paris as an alternative to couture – younger, faster, cheaper, sexier, yet more intellectual – and in 1968, as the Rykiel marriage foundered, she decided to start her own boutique, in the zone of the moment, the Left Bank. The shop in Rue de Grenelle opened in May 1968, the day before Sorbonne students threw their first cobblestones. She closed, and re-opened later when things calmed down.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sonia Rykiel look of 1977. Photograph: Arthur Elgort/Conde Nast/Contour by Getty ImagesRykiel knew all the practitioners of prét-à-porter, including Yves Saint Laurent, whose business manager Pierre Bergé invited her to join Les Créateurs, a group for these arrivistes: she did not send models to their show, but premiered her collections in her boutique, which later moved to, and stayed on, Boulevard Saint-Germain.Even in the 1970s, when Rykiel followed Les Créateurs’ example and began to show on catwalks, she retained her women-enjoying-themselves-together atmosphere among the models rather than adopting the chilly, solitary strut of the new couture. Her models might have been family: striking Parisiennes (if only by adoption), Parisiennes, women with a job, artistic appreciation, a complicated life and no shortage of lovers. Rykiel recalled having, simultaneously, two lovers in Paris, one in Italy, and one in New York, buying each their favourite brand of cigarettes at the airport on the way to rendezvous, until she presented one with a carton of the wrong brand, and pouf, the whole edifice fell down.Her clothes were her – sensual as much as sexual (strokable velour T-shirts), witty, and explicit about their manufacture: she shifted seams to the outside and left hems raw years before the Japanese. They were wearable by a wide range of non-stick-model figures – she was delighted that the US first lady Michelle Obama appreciated them. All that was part of what she called la démodé – non-fashion. There was only incremental change from season to season, slight variants of the forms she established at the start: there was always a striped sweater, always a sloganed one. The look was relaxed, but not “natural”: “What counts is sophistication.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sonia Rykiel, right,, with Melanie Thierry, left, and Beth Ditto in 2010. Photograph: Lorenvu/SIPA/Rex/ShutterstockShe lived on the Left Bank in a black-lacquered apartment where, dressed in black or navy, she could be located only by her pale face and red coiffure. Apartment and boutique were also salons for the publishers, writers and artists she befriended, and in the late 70s she began to write: volumes of non-fiction, a novel for adults and another for children. She was not reticent about her celebrity, and grew to like the portraits that Andy Warhol made of her after hours of Polaroid-snapping in his Factory. The film director Robert Altman based his 1994 confection Prét-à-Porter, and the character played by Anouk Aimée, on Rykiel; she had a walk-on part, too, with collection.Rykiel was diagnosed with Parkinson’s in 1996, but did not tell her family for many years, slowly handing over her business to her daughter and collaborator, Nathalie. Paris couture celebrated her 40th year in the business, in 2008, with a show of clothes teasing her so-recognisable style, and she had an exhibition at the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in 2010. She was appointed a commander of the Légion d’Honneur in 2009.Nathalie, and Rykiel’s son, Jean-Philippe (who had been the bump under her first design), survive her.• Sonia Rykiel, fashion designer, born 25 May 1930; died 25 August 2016