As chief executive of a national charity that supports adults with learning disabilities, I am bitterly disappointed with the supposed solutions proposed by Philip Hammond to address the funding crisis in the social care sector (Hammond gives extra £2bn to tackle social care crisis in England, 9 March).The £2bn cash injection over three years is a far cry from the £4.5bn figure recommended by the health select committee. By the chancellor’s own admission, this funding is to act as a “bridge” until the Better Care Fund comes online in 2018/19. This is designed to address the funding gaps in both the health and social care sectors. However, we are concerned that this funding pot will not be big enough to cover both.The proposed green paper on social care funding is to be welcomed; however, this should not be used as an excuse to delay urgent funding reform.Before the budget we warned that, according to our research, three-quarters of the learning disability sector will be running at a deficit by the end of this government without sufficient funding. By delaying urgent action and instead opting for a period of consultation, the chancellor is putting the care of some of the most vulnerable people in our society at risk, as the recommendations of this consultation will be too little, too late for the majority of providers.Robert Longley-CookChief executive, HFT • According to Philip Hammond, the self-employed cost the country £5bn in lost revenue. It’s another way to compound the belief that people are pretending to be self-employed so they can claim benefits and laze about. No one I know who is self-employed works as little as 40 hours a week; most work evenings and weekends, and earn the equivalent of minimum wage or below.We do it because it is something we believe in, are proud of, or were trained for; and we like the only “perk”, which is being one’s own boss. Some do it because they could not find a job.The Tories broke an election pledge when they announced this increase, and they have to be held to account for all the small businesses that everyone relies on and that make our local communities unique: the plumber, the coffee shop, the independent butchers and bakers, the music therapists, the electricians, the gardeners, the fitness instructors, the musicians and the accountants.Without us life would be very different; the country could end up being run by faceless institutions for whom we would all be employees.Megan MackneyTiptoe, Hampshire• The government’s investment in full-fibre broadband networks across the UK and 5G mobile technology trials is long overdue but greatly welcomed.The new networks will drive forward the digital transformation of the workplace, enabling even smarter, flexible working to help drive the UK economy.With more people gaining access to reliable internet connections, regardless of where they are based, a significant roadblock experienced by business leaders when implementing flexible working initiatives will be removed. This will ultimately lead to greater work-life balance and an increase in overall output from workers who feel as though they are valued, trusted, and can produce their very best work.But while Philip Hammond’s plans are a step in the right direction, more needs to be done to increase the pace of digital transformation within the British workplace. Otherwise we risk falling behind other countries in terms of business output and efficiency.Such is the situation around flexible working in the UK, British parents only spent two hours a day with their children this half-term. Compared to working parents in Sweden, who are the best at making time for their children during the working week – an average of four hours a day – the UK has a very long way to go in terms of flexible working. The introduction of new broadband networks will hopefully be a catalyst to inspire smarter working in the UK.Jason Downes Managing director, Powwownow• The Tory government spent months speaking of Jams – Britain’s “just about managing” families. They’ve replaced that with repeated references to “ordinary working families” – Owfs. You only have to say the acronym to know, especially in the wake of the budget, what they really think of the majority of their fellow citizens.Neil KinnockHouse of Lords• Philip Hammond stated that raising the Isa threshold to £20,000 would “help everyone”. This small sentence reveals how little he knows about life for the majority of the population. With average household debt close on £13,000 and with so many incomes below the tax threshold, investing in an Isa is relevant only to the well-off. The latter can invest every year and pay no tax on the interest, increasing inequality further.Wendy Ekbery Norwich• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters