The first hints of the national security wedgeTony Abbott is starting to use the civil war in Iraq to question Labor’s credentials on national security, despite Labor having backed his handling of the crisis. On most public outings he is linking national security with border security and “economic security”, which apparently can be best attained by supporting his budget.In question time on Tuesday, Abbott declared: “You can't trust Labor with national security and you can't trust Labor with our nation's economy.”On Thursday he was asked: “Prime Minister, in question time a couple of days ago, you said Labor could not be trusted with national security. Was that a reference to border protection or something broader?” He answered: “Look, principally, border protection, but if you do look at Labor's record on defence spending, for instance, I think there was a $25bn cut … and if anything, the events of the last week or so in Iraq have reminded us that this is an uncertain and rather dangerous world and it's important that we maintain our preparedness and our capability … and that's certainly what this government will do.”By Friday he was linking the need to prevent Australians who have left to join jihadi fighters in Syria or Iraq from re-entering the country with the policy of “stopping the boats”.“What we can’t have is trained killers who hate our way of life, who hate us, making mischief with the potential to cause mayhem in our country,” Abbott told 2GB.“So that is the absolute determination of the Australian government. We will keep our borders secure, not just from illegal boats but from returning jihadis as well.”He did add: “Let’s give credit where it’s due — I think that Bill Shorten is just as keen as I am to ensure that when it comes to protecting our country against this type of thing.”But he returned to tie up the other “security” later in the same interview, saying the government was “dedicated to national security and to economic security … because this is an uncertain world, sometimes the dangerous world, and that’s why it’s so important that our national security partnerships are in good shape and we are constantly looking for more opportunities … to strengthen our economy”.There’s an obvious temptation here. In the 2001 “Tampa election”, the issue of “border security” was conflated with national security post-September 11 with the suggestion that terrorists could slip into Australia on asylum boats. And the issue got the struggling second-term Howard government out of a whole lot of political trouble.More possible hurdles in the government’s crash-through-or-crash strategyThe government has been charging at its critics as if it might knock their pesky arguments over by the brute force of rhetorical repetition – it has not broken any election promises, it has not cut health or education funding or pensions either and its budget is not unfair or lacking in compassion it says, over and over.“For people to suggest somehow that we are without compassion or that we are trying to be mean for the sake of being mean, it’s just reprehensible,’’ treasurer Joe Hockey told the AFR’s Tony Walker.“It’s like suggesting a parent that denies their child extra chocolate is somehow being cruel and mean where in fact what we’re ­trying to do is ensure that every Australian has a reasonable quality of life with a sustainable future.’’But this Senate, and the one about to take over in July, appear to think many budget measures are a bit more essential than that extra square of choccie, and don’t seem likely to be easily persuaded otherwise.Palmer (who probably read the reports that the government’s strategy was to “pick off” his senators one by one – why would they telegraph that?) says he’s going to make a big announcement on Wednesday about how his three senators intend to vote on a whole lot of things, right before his first face-to-face meeting with Abbott on Thursday.But spokesmen for Motoring Enthusiast senator-elect Ricky Muir, say he won’t necessarily be voting with PUP, as had been widely assumed, adding yet another unpredictable element to the proceedings.And with opinion polls showing the government’s two-party preferred vote languishing at 47% and support for independents and ‘others’ climbing, the break-glass-in-case-of-emergency option of a double dissolution is also not looking attractive from the Coalition’s perspective.The departure of moderate Sue Boyce, keeping it realPerspective from a different vantage point was offered up from one of the Coalition’s departing soldiers.Politics is so chock-full of talking points and formulations that truth and raw humanity is, increasingly, a rationed commodity. Liberal senator Sue Boyce said farewell to politics this week in typically candid style. In her valedictory speech Wednesday evening, the feminist and Liberal moderate reminded us that she’d crossed the floor – once on carbon pricing and twice on marriage equality. That’s already known.What was unknown was how it might have felt to disappoint your close colleagues – people you respect and care about – in a sectarian and tribal place like Canberra. It felt lonely, she said, to step outside the group. “I was not prepared for how I felt when it came to actually physically crossing the floor. It is lonely; and, no matter how strong your conviction in the correctness of your stance, there is a small part of you that feels disloyal to your colleagues, to your party and to the fragile fabric that unites us,” Boyce said.There was more humanity to share – a singular habit of bringing her handbag into the chamber in a world where blokes travel light and stuff pagers in their suit pockets. She wondered how a handbag could possibly be remarkable, and yet it was. “Are we getting some sort of an echo of some of the issues that perhaps need modernising around here?” Considered words, also, for the colleagues she was leaving behind. “In the past few months I have been asked numerous times if, as a moderate and a feminist, I am concerned about our party's perceived move to the right. Yes, I am concerned – but I am also hopeful. I am hopeful that debates about important issues such as same-sex marriage and responses to climate change will continue to be conducted robustly, but respectfully, within our party. I also expect that pragmatism will ultimately triumph. Australians will continue to elect governments of the centre right – and, hopefully less often, of the centre left – so any general move too far to the right would make us unelectable.”The revelation that Bill Shorten can absolutely nail a joke … But there’s a ‘but’The denizens of parliament gathered in the Great Hall on Wednesday night for the annual midwinter ball, the Australian equivalent of the nerd prom. A tradition of the occasion is roasts delivered by the leaders. Tony Abbott tried hard, and won more than he lost, acknowledging that amongst other personal foibles that he was a “winker from way back”.But the consensus in the room was it was Bill Shorten’s night. The Labor leader exhibited more deftness in walking the line between laughing at his opponent, laughing at the overweening ego and self-importance in the room, laughing at the colleagues, but most importantly, laughing at himself. Shorten’s having a good trot, ahead in the opinion polls, colleagues not causing much trouble, a government seemingly intent on a bout of political self-destruction.As Shorten pointed out in his roast, not much has changed in Canberra post-election apart from Labor changing offices: the government presently finds itself in much the same quagmire that Labor found itself in in office. The times suits Shorten. Yet myriad challenges loom, and it is not always clear Shorten possesses the disciplined focus and precision for the looming challenges. It’s also not clear Labor possesses the heart for a fight on legacy issues that are politically controversial, yet definitional in the values space.Labor is running dead on climate change and avoiding conflict at all costs on asylum policy, all classic small-target stuff – but a posture not without risks when Labor is yet to atone to its base for the self-indulgence of the civil war in government; and when the progressive vote remains well and truly up for grabs.The triumph of common sense on the Clean Energy Finance CorporationThe Senate’s second rejection of the bill to repeal the Clean Energy Finance Corporation was mostly noted for the fact that it delivered Tony Abbott his first double dissolution trigger, even though he is highly unlikely to pull it.But it also represented a triumph of common sense, given that the so-called “green bank” is investing in exactly the kinds of projects the government is hoping to attract with its “direct action” climate change policy, but instead of costing the government $10 or $20 per tonne of carbon abated (we have to wait until the “reverse auctions” are held to know what Direct Action will cost), it is returning a profit to the budget of $2.40 per tonne of abated carbon. It invests commercially, but co-finances projects traditional lenders might not take on alone because they lack specialist expertise in the technology or need a shorter payback period.Having backed itself into a corner on the issue in opposition – accusing the bank of investing in all kinds of risky projects with hardworking taxpayers’ borrowed money – the Coalition says it will reintroduce legislation for the repeal next week to try to get it through the new Senate after July.But it may not have any better luck then. Labor and the Greens will again vote against the repeal, the Palmer United party’s position is unclear, the Motoring Enthusiast party says the bank “appears to be a good thing”, independent senator Nick Xenophon supports the bank’s retention and DLP senator John Madigan abstained from Wednesday’s vote to abolish it.