The number of cattle slaughtered in Britain because of bovine tuberculosis (TB) fell last year, official figures show. Some 32,620 cattle were compulsorily slaughtered as a result of TB in 2013, down from 37,734 animals in 2012. The incidence rate – the number of previously TB-free herds found to be infected with new cases of the disease – also dropped slightly from 4.8% of herds tested in 2012 to 4.5% in 2013. The number of new herds with TB from January to December 2013 was 4,815, down slightly from 5,153 for January to December 2012, the figures from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) show. Ministers said the incidence rate had been at the unacceptably high level of above 4% for a decade, and the figures showed the need to do everything possible to tackle the disease in cattle. But wildlife campaigners seized on the statistics as evidence that more stringent on-farm measures to tackle TB have worked, and attacked Government claims that culling badgers – which can spread the disease to cattle – was needed. The government has pushed forward with two controversial pilot culls of badgers, with plans to roll-out the scheme more widely in England if it can be done effectively, safely and humanely. But a leaked review by independent experts assessing the pilot schemes was reported to have found that the number of badgers being killed in each area was much lower than the level needed to have a beneficial impact on TB outbreaks in herds. Commenting on the new figures, farming minister George Eustice said: “Our efforts to control bovine TB have kept outbreaks steady over the last 10 years, but we are still nowhere near an acceptable position. “Almost 90 cattle are being slaughtered each day due to bovine TB and we cannot allow that to continue. “Today’s figures are another reminder that we need to do all in our power to bear down on a disease that is costing taxpayers millions each year and taking a terrible economic and emotional toll on our farmers.” But Dominic Dyer, chief executive of the Badger Trust and Policy Advisor to Care for the Wild, said: “Defra will claim the figures are too high, and that TB is costing the country a lot of money, both of which are true. “Then they’ll say ‘therefore we must kill badgers’, but by saying that, they are trying to insinuate that it’s all badgers’ fault, when that clearly isn’t the case. “TB in cattle has emerged out of poor farm bio-security, failures in disease testing, and lapses in cattle movement controls. Those are the causes, and dealing with those will be the solution.” He claimed the 13.6% reduction in the number of cattle slaughtered last year across Britain was down to more stringent measures imposed by the European Commission in January 2013. He added that in Wales, where the Government has decided against a cull, they had seen a 33% reduction in the number of cattle slaughtered through farming measures alone. He said that wildlife organisations were backing badger vaccinations as an alternative to culling but claimed that badger were a “tiny player in this game” and focusing on them was a distraction.