Organisms stuck in place like a potted plant generally make poor predators. But try explaining that to an amphipod impaled and partially digested on the branches of a killer sponge in the deep Pacific. Most of the 5,000 or so species of Porifera, or sponges, get around their sedentary problem by waving threadlike flagella to create a unidirectional current that brings a continual supply of bacteria and single-celled organisms into the body of the sponge that are then filtered out of the water. Some sponges are incredibly efficient at this, moving hundreds of times the volume of water they contain per hour while extracting the vast majority of bacteria present. Others are symbiotic with microscopic photosynthetic organisms that produce food used by the host, too.About 20 years ago, it was discovered that certain deep-sea sponges, living in water with few unicellular food items, have evolved a radically different solution. They are covered in hairs that, on closer inspection, are composed of dense bundles of microscopic hooks that capture larger prey, such as small crustacea, when they bump into the sponge. Some sponge cells then migrate on to the trapped animal and commence extracellular digestion.In the two decades that the existence of carnivorous sponges has been known only seven kinds have been described from the north-eastern Pacific. Dr Lonny Lundsten of the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute, along with two Canadian co-authors, recently described four additional "killer" sponges off the west coast of North America. Two, Cladorhiza caillieti off Vancouver Island and Cladorhiza evae off the tip of Baja California, were found near deep-sea hydrothermal vent communities of chemosynthetic animals. A third, Asbestopluma rickettsi, was collected off the coast of southern California and named after the marine biologist Ed Ricketts, the model for Doc in John Steinbeck's novel Cannery Row. It was found living in proximity to bacteria that metabolise methane seeping from the ocean floor, which probably form a good part of its diet.The fourth species, shown in the photo, is Asbestopluma monticola. This delicately branched sponge with a bottle-brush arrangement of its filaments was initially discovered off the coast of central California on the underwater extinct volcano known as the Davidson Seamount. The holotype of the new species stands more than 19cm tall, with branches diminishing in diameter from 7mm at its base to 1mm at its tips. A monticola was found growing attached to both the seafloor and to the remains of dead sponges.An increased rate of exploration of deep-sea communities has been fuelled in part by technology. Remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) enable marine biologists to roam the ocean sediments at depths of up to 4,000m. Such recent surveys of sea vents, canyons, and seamounts have expanded knowledge of both ecological assemblages and the frequently unique organisms comprising them. Even more impressively, the ROVs are equipped with lights, high-resolution cameras, and robotic arms capable of picking up specimens, including those of the newly found species. ROV dives since 2006 have observed A monticola hundreds of times at an average depth of 1,236m where both temperatures and oxygen concentrations are low and where various crustaceans, sponges, corals, and echinoderms also live. This essay sponged shamelessly off a press release available on the "News & Information" tab of the mbari.org website, where you may also find a link to beautiful video footage of the new killer sponges.