In 2009, more than 100 countries agreed that $100bn (£64bn) per year would be needed by 2020 for climate change mitigation and adaptation measures in developing countries. Developed countries have so far pledged about $34bn. But only 46% of this money has been allocated, and just 10% disbursed.On the supply side the evolving funding arrangement doesn't help. On the demand side, recipient countries often fail to put in place the necessary institutional structures and systems to reassure that funds will be effectively managed. This combination leads to low disbursement levels.However, several countries have secured climate finance. China has been the biggest beneficiary, followed by India and Turkey. While the top beneficiaries are fast-growing emerging economies, with funding predominantly directed at mitigation efforts, other countries such as Guyana and Tanzania are also high on the list, indicating that receiving funding is not purely a question of size of population or GDP.So, how can policymakers go about securing climate funding? There is of course no single, simple formula but from my experiencee five factors are key for success:1. LeadershipStrong commitment from the highest political levels is essential to demonstrate to potential funders that a country considers combating climate change a priority. For example, the president of Mexico, Felipe Calderon, has been a strong promoter of climate compatible development, including hosting the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change conference in Cancun in 2010. The country's special climate change programme includes a commitment to reduce emissions by 51m tonnes by 2012.2. Establish a 'government-aligned' strategyThe strategy for achieving climate change-related goals must be part of the country's national plans on growth and poverty alleviation, and have credible operational plans to effectively deliver commitments. Under Brazil's national climate change plan, the government is addressing the drivers of deforestation in combination with incentives to reduce emissions from the land-use sector. So far, deforestation rates in Brazil have fallen by 80% since 2004. The analytical rigour of the plan, coupled with supporting policies, has also enabled the country to attract considerable funding: Brazil has received the largest volume of Redd+ finance (an international framework to provide incentives to reduce emissions from deforestation and degradation) globally through its Amazon Fund.3. Create an inter-governmental co-ordinating bodyIndonesia has also set itself ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, yet the government has struggled to turn funding pledges into disbursements, largely because of the confusion on institutional co-ordination structures. Given the cross-cutting nature of climate change, it is vital to have a central co-ordinating body. In Guyana, for instance, the government has established an Office of Climate Change to co-ordinate all climate-related activities, and has got funding from Norway of up to $250m till 2015.4. Engage with stakeholdersIt is critical to work openly and systematically with diverse stakeholders from the outset, to engender shared ownership for the strategy, to identify priorities, and to tackle challenges. Detailed political economy analysis should be conducted to understand stakeholders' power relationships and, above all, the incentives required to win the support of different interest groups and individuals. In Brazil, for example, the country's national climate change plan was developed with numerous institutions, and in Guyana, the government established a multi-stakeholder steering committee, including various government agencies, NGOs, and indigenous groups.5. Ring-fence funding with strong, transparent governanceA number of countries, including Indonesia, Brazil and Rwanda, have established national climate change trust funds to assure prospective funders that funding will be used appropriately and accountably. Governance arrangements inevitably vary between countries, but could include an independent trustee institution to provide financial intermediary services and oversight.Of course other, more detailed steps are required, such as aligning the national budget with the climate change strategy via public financial management instruments, and providing the evidence of needs for climate finance, for example through nationally appropriate mitigation actions. But the above steps are a useful starting point to think about the actions, institutions and attitudes a government must adopt if it is to secure the funds to adapt.Federica Chiappe is a climate change economist and consultant at Oxford Policy Management This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Global Development Professionals Network