Two dirty and dilapidated concrete figures of naked sunbathers which lay mouldering in the corner of a hotel garden have been identified as an important, presumed lost sculpture from the 1951 Festival of Britain.Peter Laszlo Peri’s The Sunbathers was on the wall of an entrance to Waterloo station for the festival, an attempt by the Labour government bring cheer to the country after the second world war. But, like dozens of artworks commissioned for the event, little has been known of what happened next. Was it sold? Was it destroyed?Historic England (HE) held an exhibition highlighting lost pieces of public art at Somerset House last year, and a couple recognised the sculpture as one they had seen in the garden of the Clarendon hotel in Blackheath, south-east London. A crowdfunding campaign to raise £15,000 to restore The Sunbathers and get it back on temporary display has now been launched. Celia Richardson, director of communications at HE, called it a “remarkable survival”. She added: “It speaks of a time when the festival gave hope, optimism and colour to a battered and bruised postwar nation.“Today we are asking the public to help us recreate that spirit and contribute to the restoration of The Sunbathers, so it can delight visitors to the South Bank once again.”The sculpture was bought at auction in the 1960s by hotelier Joseph O’Donnell, who laid the figures on a patio in the gardens. Countless guests must have enjoyed the artwork, with generations of children scrambling over it at weddings and tea parties.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sunbathers on the north wall of Waterloo Station, May 1951. Photograph: S&G and Barratts GeneralBut decades of being out in the elements took their toll, and the figures have been on pallets under plastic sheeting in the garden for a number of years.Josephine O’Donnell, daughter of Jospeh and one of the current owners of the Clarendon, recalled climbing on The Sunbathers “in our sunken garden at the front of the hotel. I used to call them Adam and Eve. I’m thrilled that they are being given a second lease of life.”The figures, made from a special kind of concrete known as Pericrete, were mounted on a wall where festivalgoers returning home on the tube or train, or going to the toilet, would have seen them.One admirer was Dylan Thomas, who wrote in his essay on the festival of “the linked terracotta man and woman fly-defying gravity and elegantly hurrying up a WC wall”.Peri, a Hungarian emigre, was a constructivist artist who undertook many public commissions. Last year four pieces of his public art, including a relief of boys playing football on flats in Vauxhall, south London, were listed by HE.His grandson, also called Peter Peri, said the rediscovery was a “a wonderful, even miraculous” event. “The sculpture has a radical vertical format. It’s representation of a sundial-like dynamic engagement between ordinary people at leisure and the cosmos is a great example of my grandfather’s unique mixture of constructivism and realism.”HE said the £15,000 sought would pay for conservators to dry the sculpture out, peel back layers of paint, reshape the wire frame, patch up missing pieces and fund its installation at the Royal Festival Hall for three months as part of the Southbank Centre’s Summertime festival 2017.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Laszlo Peri’s Following the Leader (Memorial to the Children Killed in the Blitz) adorns Darley House, Vauxhall Gardens estate, in south London. Photograph: Lucy Millson-Watkins/English HeritageThe discovery of The Sunbathers gives hope that others may turn up. Where, for example, is Root Bodied Forth by Mitzi Cunliffe, a sculpture which stood at the festival site entrance? Or Geoffrey Clarke’s Icarus, a melding of iron relief and stained glass which was in the Transport Pavilion.The most famous sculpture was Skylon, a 296ft structure, which looked like it was floating without support. It became the festival’s symbol and was removed and destroyed on the orders of Winston Churchill who saw it as a symbol of socialism and the Clement Attlee government.BBC Radio 4’s Front Row programme reported in 2011 that bits of Skylon and the dome of Discovery were made into paper knives by the scrap merchants who dismantled it.