Miriam Margolyes often thinks about how she is going to die. “I know that at 75, death can’t be far away. I think it’s made me busier. I try to pack a little bit too much into each day, because there might not be tomorrow.”Margolyes, who played Professor Sprout in the Harry Potter films and won a Bafta for her role in The Age of Innocence, is one of Britain’s leading older female actors – much-loved, and some would even say a national treasure. However, her outspoken comments on topics such as Israel’s conflict in Gaza and the lack of black actors in showbusiness (not to mention a sexually graphic account of her physical reaction to meeting Laurence Olivier) has divided opinion. Or, as she puts it, “there’s always a great kerfuffle afterwards”.Recently diagnosed with osteoporosis, she has now decided to use that gift for forthright observation to highlight the realities of ageing. “Nobody tells you that old age is going to be shitty,” she says simply. “It’s a kind of conspiracy.”Unlike Judi Dench, who says she doesn’t allow the word “old” to be spoken in her house, Margolyes believes we need to be more open about the painful and often embarrassing physical ailments that afflict people in old age.For example, since an operation to remove a kidney stone, she has begun to suffer from stress incontinence – a problem she treats with black humour and fury. “I have to be near a toilet because if I cough or sneeze, I can piss myself. I think it’s common among people my age, but nobody ever talks about it. I’ve got to talk about it. It’s on my mind.”She recalls going for a walk across Hampstead Heath in London and suddenly realising she needed the toilet. “I knocked on a door and I said I’m terribly sorry but I’m going to ask to have a shit in your toilet, is that all right? The owner looked at me for a minute and then said: I think I recognise you, are you Miriam Margolyes? I said: Yes, I am … does that make it better or worse?”We meet at her five-storey house in south London, where – following a knee operation – she finds the stairs a struggle. “It’s irritating. I have to say to a director: if you want me to run upstairs, you’ll have to get another actress.”She asks for a wheelchair at the airport now and laments the way that young people rarely consider the challenges of life in old age. In public, she says, old people are often treated as though they are invisible. She describes being frequently bumped by people who want her to move quicker or get out of the way on the Tube or in the swimming pool.At home, she has turned her basement into a sunlight-filled sanctuary: her own self-contained flat. “So far, I’ve never broken a bone, but I’m very conscious that, because I have osteoporosis, it could happen if I fall. I think that’s one of the things that happens to you as you get older – you feel more fragile. I hate that.”She is a fan of the “brilliant” NHS, which she says has provided her with state-of-the-art care. “As you get older, the NHS has become more important to you – it becomes crucial.” Right now, she fears for its future. “I’m terrified about what’s going on. This government has to protect the NHS as its number one priority. We have to insist on that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Left to right: Maggie Smith, Miriam Margolyes, Richard Harris and Alan Rickman in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. Photograph: Sportsphoto/AllstarDespite her health problems she is at the peak of her acting career and is busier with work than she has ever been. In the next few months she will appear in a BBC comedy series called Bucket, and a film about Charles Dickens called The Man Who Invented Christmas, and play the starring role in Madame Rubinstein, a play about the inventor of the lipstick, at Park Theatre in London’s Finsbury Park.She plans to keep working for as long as she can. She points to the fact that Dench, Maggie Smith and Vanessa Redgrave are still working in their 80s, and says this has paved the way for a change in the way older actresses are viewed. “There was an attitude at the commissioning TV channels that we only want to see youth on television. Well, I don’t think that’s true any more.“I’ve never been somebody people cast because they want to go to bed with them. Now I’m older, I think it’s become more acceptable that I’m not slim and beautiful.”She deeply admires the other great British female actors of her generation, and reveals they share a warm camaraderie about ageing. “When we see each other, you do tend to get what we call the organ recital, which is going through the problems of: how’s your heart? How’s your liver? How’s your lungs?”Does she expect the work ever to dry up? “I don’t know. We don’t have any security in our business. Even Maggie Smith and Judi Dench worry about their futures. Like all actresses, I’m also concerned that if I keep going on about being old, people will think: oh, she’s finished, she’s over – and I’m not. I’m not over. There’s a feisty hunger in me.”There is, however, one big upside to getting older, she says: the freedom to speak her mind without fear. “I relish being slightly untrammelled and telling it how it is. The things that frighten me now are things like cancer, stroke, paralysis, losing my mind. Not people. I care less about raising hell. I think hell has to be raised.”Miriam Margolyes is an ambassador for the National Osteoporosis Society