We are on the brink of seeing three of the world’s richest democracies be led by women. This is a moment to take stock, to measure how attitudes have changed to women in power, and what that means for the licence that they now have to define themselves.It is always harder on the way to power: Clinton’s battles with how to present herself as a woman aspiring to be commander in chief – strong or compliant, outspoken or measured – have threaded through the presidential campaign. In office, it would be what she does that counts. Long ago, Angela Merkel became the most powerful politician in Europe, a standing that made a virtue out of ordinariness. It is Theresa May who seems most interesting, and interested, in how she can use her personal brand to sell a political message.May has an acute sense of how to manage her public image. Track her trajectory to the top and you track what is acceptable to mainstream opinion, or sometimes what is only just acceptable – one of her skills is her judgment of where people are, and how far it is possible to shift them in her direction, or at least enough of them for her to win the argument. She often does it in policy development: she has been ahead of Conservative opinion on matters ranging from the pressing need to recruit more female MPs, domestic violence and female genital mutilation to the conduct of the police and the need for a full investigation into the Hillsborough disaster.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   May in red at this year’s budget. Photograph: Jessica Taylor/UK Parliament/PAMay is hardly a slave to fashion. But as a Tory MP and now leader and prime minister, she embodies it. What she wears embodies what she wants the party to be. Her wardrobe is an object lesson in brand management.May was first elected as an MP in 1997, the year of the Labour landslide, the year when there were 101 Labour female MPs. That year, precisely 13 Conservative women were elected. And, in an 1998 interview after she became one of the first new MPs to be given a frontbench job, she was confident that gender was irrelevant. How she has changed.Back then, the Tories were in shock and in decline after 18 years in power. Recovery seemed distant. Yet, for Conservatives, office is always the principle ambition, and that means it often makes a very unconservative accommodation with social trends. After the 1997 defeat, powerful figures in the party grasped that appearing more female-friendly would be at the heart of modernisation. Soon, May was speaking on women’s issues. In 2002, after the second election defeat, she became the first woman to chair the party. That was the year she described the Tories as the “nasty party”. It was the year she wore kitten heels.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   May dons a colour-block coat on her first day as prime minister. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PAThe kitten heels gave May an identity that was separate from her politics. In popular imagination, they were so ... well, unTory. They were a little quirky. They were almost cheeky. They were animal print, for heaven’s sake! It was as if every other woman in the party was still in shiny leather brogues. What May said about herself with those shoes, she came also to say about the party. The shoes helped to identify where the change in public perception had to come; they began to lay the ground for a party leader who really was modernising. Only it was David Cameron who capitalised on it, not May.Fashion writers applaud May as a woman who treats the frontbench in the Commons like the front row at a fashion show. It’s much more than that – since that day at the 2002 party conference, May has never stopped using how she looks to indicate what she is thinking.She dresses strikingly when she intends to make a striking intervention; as emphasis, not distraction. Last autumn, at the first party conference after the 2015 election victory, May made a deeply controversial speech about immigration in a zip-backed black Roland Mouret dress. A few years earlier, she had been equally provocative about the Human Rights Act in another party conference speech, in a waisted navy jacket and a dress with an asymmetric hemline. During what turned out to be George Osborne’s last budget in March, she sat beside the chancellor in a scarlet dress. Soon afterwards, she had a dramatic haircut, following Clinton, Nicola Sturgeon and Merkel with the power bob (AKA the Pob). At that point, it occurred to me she thought the Brexit vote might not go the government’s way and that, if so, it would be her chance for the top. She was not going to lose out to the Camerons again. Picture the tortoise sturdily marching past the snoozing hare. Then remember last July’s steps-of-Downing-Street colour-blocked coat and skirt by Amanda Wakeley, and read the wardrobe of triumph.May can do this because wearing interesting clothes is at last a legitimate – maybe even a desirable – attribute for women in power, and she can take some of the credit for that. When she began her career in Westminster 20 years ago, an interest in fashion was taken as an indication of a woman who can read nothing more challenging than the captions to magazine fashion shoots. Labour women who took part in photo shoots soon after the election in 1997 were told they had destroyed their political credibility. When Sturgeon did the same thing in September last year, even the Daily Mail let it pass.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   At the 2015 Conservative party conference. Photograph: Ray Tang/REX ShutterstockMay has played a part in making style a legitimate part of a political personality. She uses what she wears to underline her wider message: every public appearance announces that she is in touch with a reality outside Westminster (even if it is limited to prosperous southern England), and that she shares ordinary people’s – or at least well-off people’s – interests in the quotidian concerns of life. But her appearance says something else about her, too. From statement haircut to shiny toe cap, her appearance represents her freedom from anxiety about what other people think – a quality that, May’s friends say, is one of her defining characteristics.May pushes boundaries with clothes as well as policies. Female MPs who reveal that, in fact, they – along with other women – do have breasts still get trolled on Twitter (when Alison McGovern wore a low-cut dress on Channel 4 News last year, she was accused of deliberately trying to distract male viewers from the interview). When May wore that red dress behind Osborne, I’m not sure she thought she was reclaiming breasts from sexploitation. But she was saying that she will wear exactly what she likes.Contrast this with the Thatcher era. Margaret Thatcher made a Thatcher-shaped hole in the glass ceiling. Apart from the significant fact of being there, she did nothing to make it different for women. Her lack of interest in feminist revolution was exemplified by many things she did, and also by her outfits.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   May’s 2011 waisted jacket and dress. Photograph: Toby Melville/REUTERSThatcher wore clothes to make her look less threatening than she was: her attitude to gender was far more fully described by her wardrobe than anything that she said (a speech to the 1969 party conference archly quoting Socrates – “when woman is made equal to man she becomes his superior, and I would not dissent from anyone as wise as Socrates” – may be the best indication of her fey approach). In Thatcher’s view, women could share power only if they let men think that they were still making the tea.One of the more odd developments in feminist politics is the motherhood divide. In last year’s Labour leadership contest, Helen Goodman suggested Yvette Cooper’s experience as a mother made her the best candidate. It is a terrifying thought that if Andrea Leadsom, a mother, had not tried the same line against the childless May, Leadsom might now be prime minister.But it has become much more likely that men will face similar random tests of their familiarity with voters’ experiences. Women are no longer obliged to pretend to be domestic goddesses. It’s hard to imagine May bothering to perpetuate the myth that she cooks for Philip every night the way Thatcher apparently cooked for Denis. Mr May has already been objectified as Maidenhead man, and his choice of outfits is almost as scrutinised as hers.May says her heroine is Elizabeth I: head of a buccaneering nation; queen of Galleon Britain. And a woman with a fine appreciation for the power of a good frock.