Two years ago, my partner and I finally wrote proper wills. The basic instructions for guardianship of our young children, written years before, were no longer fit-for-purpose. We were prompted by Will Aid, a charitable scheme that runs every November. It was hard to resist its logic: it is irresponsible not to sort out your affairs and, doing it this way, solicitors waive their fees and instead you make a charitable donation. This was compelling, but it was surprisingly hard to get round to doing, which might explain why half the UK population don’t have valid wills.Part of my reluctance, including superstitions that disaster would follow my writing it, was typical, according to Will Aid’s research. But my partner and I had also had experiences of wills stirring up uncomfortable emotions. My father, with no property to dispense, bequeathed me his chaotic stamp collection. It reminded me of his last, sad years and I hid it away until finally disposing of it. Badly. For years, I felt I’d let him down. My partner’s experience was more pointed – an unsatisfactory letter from his mother explaining her decision to leave her house to stepchildren and grandchildren rather than her sons.Writing a will isn’t a job you’ll relish, but it is a matter of life and death Once I started asking around, I found that surprising numbers of people have had experiences of wills that left them puzzled or, as in the case of Paul Rodgers, still upset after 20 years. Paul, in his 40s, is a successful professional living in London, who received a financial legacy when his grandfather died. But his grandfather delivered a wounding blow with his last wishes.Paul’s grandfather, David, was a big figure in his early life. “Big in every sense,” says Paul. “He was a dominant personality. He was brilliant. He’d been to a top university and was a national bridge champion. He was involved in early work in PR, which really took off in America in the 40s and 50s. He was a smart, funny person. I admired him.” Paul knew his grandfather had a cruel side; he’d witnessed him philandering and seen him putting down his son, Paul’s father. But since Paul’s relationship with his own father was difficult, he saw his grandfather as an ally.“My father was also very bright, but he was one of those people who couldn’t quite make it. His life had never really come together. He had never managed to have a good career, he never finished his degree, and he sometimes had to ask his father for money. He was charming but he had a horrible temper. We were never violently treated but, emotionally, we were scared of him. It was kind of fun to have someone put him in his place.” The letter was just the cruellest thing you can imagine. It was a chronicle of my father’s failingsPaul Rodgers This view of his grandfather as an ally and idol was shattered on his death. Paul, by then living in London, was summoned back to the US when his grandfather became ill, joining family members at the bedside. The day after he died, the family found his will and a letter requesting that it should be read by Paul, who was named as executor.Paul now regrets that he didn’t read it first. “I started reading it out to my family and you don’t know from the first sentence where it’s going. And I couldn’t stop reading it. What do you do? I’m quite dutiful. So I probably just felt I’ve been told to read this letter so I’ll just read it. If it was now, I might not do that.” The letter was addressed to his son, Paul’s father, “basically telling him what a fuck-up he was all his life, how little respect he had for him every step of the way. It was just the cruellest thing you can imagine. It was a chronicle of my father’s failings. ‘You have been a disappointment. You have borrowed money from me. Your life has been a mess.’ The tone was nasty in a clinical way.”Paul still lives with a sense of guilt that his grandfather recruited him to wound his own father like this from beyond the grave. But if his grandfather felt Paul would enjoy a shared role in delivering this blow, he miscalculated. Paul couldn’t stop himself reading the letter, but his mind was in revolt. “I remember my father sitting there quietly, stoically, listening to this letter and not doing anything. The only thing my father said was, ‘Well, there you are then.’ In an instant, my opinion of my grandfather changed from being funny, brilliant, smart, talented, and often generous, to being cruel. Simple. One word. Cruel.”Paul thinks that his grandfather’s motivation was pure spite. “He and his wife were both vain and narcissistic. He had an image and he wanted everything a certain way.” Paul thinks a sense of entitlement and power reinforced this narcissism. They wanted their children to be in their image. “He was just so talented if they didn’t meet his expectations he was perpetually disappointed.” I come across a lot of people disinheriting their children, usually because there’s been a huge falling outDenise Jones Mark Accettura, author of Blood and Money, mentions narcissism as one of the personality disorders that underlie spiteful “toxic wills” and last letters. “I used to believe naively that inheritance fights were instigated by greedy heirs,” he says. “I had fallen into the trap of blaming the living and pardoning the dead. Over time I began to appreciate that in many, if not most, cases, the decedent himself or herself was a central part of the problem: they just weren’t physically present to fight over the mess they had a hand in creating.”Occasionally, bad behaviour on the part of the deceased is recognised for what it is. In 2014 – unusually given a cornerstone of British law is the right to leave your property to whomever you wish – a judge found in favour of Heather Ilot, who challenged her mother’s will. Melita Jackson had explicitly disinherited Heather, leaving considerable property to animal charities. Their conflict had started when Heather was 17 and ran away with her boyfriend, whom Melita disapproved of. Melita never forgave her even though Heather went on to marry Nicholas who is still her husband and father of their five children. The judge accepted the barrister’s description of Melita as an “unreasonable, capricious and harsh mother”.Denise Jones runs Lovingly Managed, a company of bereavement coordinators. She says that surprising numbers of people seem set on creating emotional havoc, either because they are not clear about their wishes or because they are engaging in emotional warfare. “I come across a lot of people disinheriting their children. It’s often because the kids don’t bother with them and usually because there’s been a huge falling out and they don’t speak any more. One person said, ‘I’d rather give to the dog’s home than let that bitch get it.’ Sometimes it’s because the child has married someone they don’t like. I also get quite a few people wanting to give it to their neighbours because they feel their children have neglected them.”Daughter wins £164,000 after decade-long legal battle over will with charities Jones thinks the potential for wills to cause havoc has increased. Because of house price increases, the higher value of estates tempts damaged people to use wills as weapons in a fight. Higher values also make those disinherited more inclined to challenge wills and with increasing numbers of stepfamilies, the chances of wills being inadequate to the situation escalate. People don’t realise, she says, “that when someone remarries that immediately invalidates other wills”. This means biological children can end up cut out of any inheritance. “Step-parents say, ‘Oh no! My kids would never do that,’” says Jones, “until it comes to cold hard cash.”Wills and last wishes letters are the final words from the dead, written when people contemplate their own end and are swayed by strong feelings about their relationships with children and family, about who needs help and who doesn’t, about how they want to be remembered. Wills are emotional documents as much as financial and practical ones and thus have the potential for creating havoc and distress if unclear or used as weapons.Jones doesn’t see her role as stopping people doing what they want with their money, but she does gently say, “Don’t you think it would be a good idea to leave some to a blood relation? Even if you don’t leave it to the children, perhaps there’s a grandchild, because being disinherited leaves a legacy of pain.”Wills aren’t often discussed openly. But Jones thinks more openness might help people think clearly about what they are doing and the consequences. “I’m cynical about human nature,” she says and “anything could go wrong” in terms of respecting the wishes of the deceased or the havoc created by a vicious will. “I don’t want to scare people, but I explain all the worse-case scenarios and how to avoid them by thinking through what the end result will be.”• For more details, visit willaid.org.ukIf you would like to communicate with Ros directly about this subject, please email r.coward@roehampton.ac.uk