One of the hallmarks of the so-called golden age of television is the family of lovable misfits who can’t seem to get their lives together. Look at the Bluths on Arrested Development, the Pfeffermans on Transparent, or the Baskets on Baskets. However, none of them have the co-dependent insanity of the Meyers on Casual. Hulu’s dark family comedy about love and relationships in the age of online dating returns on 7 June and will air one episode each week through its 13-episode run. (Yes, people, it may be online, but it’s not Netflix, with its binge-driven content dumps.) And of course, the family in question is still nuts. People rarely change on TV comedies – because if their characters developed too much – and stopped making us cringe – what would we have to laugh about? The start of season two finds siblings Alex (Tommy Dewey) and Valerie (Michaela Watkins) still living together with Valerie’s daughter Laura (Tara Lynne Barr), even though Valerie got caught sleeping with Alex’s girlfriend at the end of season one. If that’s not going to tear the family apart, nothing is. And on the subject of bad behavior, Laura doesn’t want to return to her private school after self-releasing her sex tape in order to try to get her photography teacher to sleep with her.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s so funny that all of that messing around has led everyone to a more platonic place. After all of the sexual shenanigans, the Meyers all realize that they don’t have any friends, and each strikes out to make some new ones. Valerie develops a friend crush on Jennifer (Katie Aselton), the therapist who moved in down the hall and seems a little bit flightier than Valerie wants to acknowledge. Laura decides that her only option to get out of school is to have Alex homeschool her, mostly because she thinks that it only means having class twice a day. She tries to make friends with some homeschool kids, including Aubrey (Dylan Gelula, who played Xanthippe on Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt), who sees right through her. Alex is struggling with his dating website, Snooger, and his former best friend and business partner wants to sell to a venture capital firm headed by the bro-tastic Jordan (Mad Men’s Vincent Kartheiser), who doesn’t necessarily see eye to eye with Alex. Well, at least he always has his trusty pal Leon (Nyasha Hatendi) around to keep him company. While season two may seem like it has taken a turn, Casual is still obsessed with the ways we all try – and ultimately fail – to make connections with one another. This time, there is just a lot less action below the belt. (Still, this a pretty sexy show.)But what people really come for is the comedy, and it’s as sharp as ever, relying on the cast’s dry delivery and ability to play things both comically and tragically at the same time. When Valerie attends a dinner with her former best friends, it will make you wince with regret until next Tuesday, as soon as you are done laughing at how hilariously awful her old friends really were. But do we want Valerie and Alex to really get their lives together? Nah. Where’s the fun in that? This article was amended on 1 June 2016; the new season of Casual is 13 episodes long. 