In the summer of 1994, a few months after Kurt Cobain’s death, I was on a school trip. As my classmates watched, I took a penknife from a friend and carved the letter K into my forearm. I was 14 and wanted something that would always remind me of how important Kurt had been to me. The scar is still there today, 22 years later.I hid it from my mother, but secretly reopened the wound to make sure it was permanent. I didn’t think of it as self-harming, but more an extreme form of hero-worship and part of a lengthy and messy grieving process.Over the next few years, my life veered off the rails. I was at one of the best schools in the country, got straight As and was a talented pianist and trumpeter. I had a wonderful life ahead of me, but I threw it all away because of Kurt. If he can self-destruct, I thought, why can’t I? I mimicked his lost teenage years, experimenting with drugs and truanting. At 15, I had virtually stopped going to school. At 16, I sat my GCSEs, then left for good.My mum, who had given me everything, fought strongly against my angry teenage rebellion but, as my teachers had already discovered, there was no way of stopping it. The more she fought me, the more I battled back. I would run out of the house every night and stay out at a friend’s house smoking joints until midnight. Under the influence of Kurt and drugs, I drifted away from my loving family and my disciplined regime. My mum simply could not understand it and blamed me, my friends and, of course, Kurt.Until Nirvana came in to my life, Mum was the most important figure in my world, but soon she was usurped. Kurt’s nihilistic outlook became my guiding philosophy, and she struggled to see what it was about this man and his loud rock music that had changed me.Remarkably, in the end, the source of our disagreements would eventually lead to our reconciliation.The similarities between my mum’s personality and Kurt’s seemed obvious to me. Perhaps that’s why he became my role model. They were both very funny people, but with depressive, self-punishing sides. They did and said whatever they liked, unbound by society’s rules. They were feminists, anti-racist and anti-homophobic. They were tough, disciplined and demanded the best of themselves and others. Kurt blocked out life’s tough realities using heroin; Mum preferred red wine.She had been strict, with very high expectations that I had hitherto lived up to. It must have been shocking to find her young, bright boy suddenly telling her to fuck off, refusing to go on family holidays, stealing money from her purse and treating a heroin-addicted grunge rocker as my idol.She grew suspicious of the changes in me. I was wearing outlandish clothes, formed a guitar band at school, and acted like a rock star. My best mate’s older siblings had access to all kinds of drugs and I began to experiment. Orchestra practice seemed less important now that I had discovered speed, LSD and marijuana.Don’t get me wrong, my mum wasn’t strait-laced. In her early 20s, she was a hippy, squatting in north London. She swore like a trooper and drank a lot. She made our childhoods idyllic, but as my older brother, younger sister and I moved into our teens, and her work became more pressured, she fought to keep our single-parent family together, drinking more and battling depression. Family life wasn’t a horror show, despite how it sounds. She was so strong, determined and unflinching that we were far better off than most children who have two parents – but my rejection of everything she had built for us drove a wedge between us. Thankfully, help arrived from the most unexpected quarter, and I remember vividly the moment it all changed. Mum finally put aside her anger at Kurt and listened to Nirvana’s music. The album was In Utero – an album that still means as much to me as any I own – and we were on a family holiday.I watched her sitting in the sun on the steps of the hotel we were staying at. It was a typically adventurous holiday. Mum put on a borrowed Walkman and sat, eyes closed, headphones on, in a kind of reverie. It was the moment that she realised how beautiful Nirvana’s music was. Until that point, she had assumed they were just a loud guitar band with nihilistic tendencies who had led her son astray. She was smiling, but at the same time a tear rolled down her cheek. She was listening to the song Dumb, Kurt’s tender admission that, despite being a sad depressive, he was often happy – particularly when in an altered state. My mother clearly identified with this. For years after, she would sing the chorus, “Think I’m just happy!” while making the dinner or painting the living room. There were other songs she loved on the album too – All Apologies, Pennyroyal Tea, Heart-Shaped Box. She discovered in their music what I had discovered long before. She understood my anger at his futile suicide. His music made her realise that he was a songwriter in the mould of John Lennon. It took a while to get my life back on track, but my mum was there to help me recover and rebuild, and it helped that she and I had buried the hatchet over Kurt Cobain. We bonded over a shared recognition of Nirvana’s music as we had before over other kinds of music.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest All Apologies by Nirvana.That period helped Mum change her life too. She cut down her drinking and left her demanding job at the council, having decided that both were contributing factors to our familial dysfunction. Then she did a second degree and became a midwife – something she had always wanted to do and was amazing at.Some years later, after my circle of friends had let me down in a big way, after I broke down in tears and begged her forgiveness, my mum was still there for me. She was always there for me, and, as I grew into adulthood, I was there for her, too. Our relationship grew stronger and complete. We bore no grudges.My mum died this year at 60, after a long illness and a spectacular life. A few years before she died, we sat down together and watched Nirvana’s Live at Reading DVD. I wondered if their abrasive live show would put her off. It was, after all, the softer side of Nirvana she liked. But from the opening chords, I could see she was gripped. It was a special moment. It felt good to recognise the past without hurt or anger, to remember how we had let all that go and enjoy the fact that we were well away from those painful years. I have no idea what I will do if I have children who decide a rock star means more to them than I do. I guess I won’t have a choice, as my mother didn’t. But I will always have the scar on my arm to remind me how easy it is to get swept away. It is a powerful call back to a strange time in my life when my most important relationship was rocked to its foundations, and then repaired.@Josh_ua_Surtees