The debate around fairer pay for women feels more prominent and urgent than ever. Yet, despite this momentum, new estimates suggest the gender pay gap won’t be closed anytime soon. A new report from the World Economic Forum estimates that it will take up to 170 years for the world’s women to earn wages that are equitable to men’s.While that’s the global picture, things aren’t much better at home in the US. According to the Institute for Women’s Policy Research, in 2015, female full-time employees earned about $0.79 for every dollar made by full-time male employees. For minorities, the data is even more disparaging: African American women earn $0.64, Native American women earn $0.59 and Latinas earn $0.54.Now, with pressure from legislators, investors and the public sector rising, more states and companies are proactively taking strides to decrease the disparity and address these damning numbers. In August, Massachusetts passed an equal pay law, making it illegal for employees to ask potential hires about their salary histories. California also tightened up its equal pay act this year, calling for companies to look beyond job titles and ensure that men and women who do the same types of work are paid the same wage.Earlier this year, Obama issued an executive order that will require companies with more than 100 people to report their employee salaries to the government, broken down by gender and race. And in June, the White House announced its Equal Pay Pledge, calling on American companies to commit to paying the same salaries to women and men. More than 50 major companies signed the pledge, including Apple, GM, Target and Unilever.This is an encouraging first step. But what are businesses doing in practice to address inequalities in pay? Here, we take a look at the pay practices of four big employers to explore what could – and should – be done.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Patagonia store. Photograph: PatagoniaPatagoniaCalifornia-based Patagonia, an outdoor clothing retailer known for its activism as much as its windbreakers and fleece jackets, signed the White House pledge in August. But they’ve long had a tradition of catering to female employees, says Dean Carter, vice president of human resources and shared services. Currently, the company, which has a female CEO, Rose Marcario, has more women than men on staff – 866 v 862, respectively.Carter attributes the company’s ability to retain female employees to its culture and generous benefits: 12 weeks of fully paid family medical leave applicable to both men and women, with no limitations on the number of times it can be used; 16 weeks fully paid maternity leave; and 12 weeks fully paid paternity leave. Patagonia also offers free on-site childcare to all staff members, both at their Ventura headquarters and their distribution warehouse in Reno.“It’s true, there are financial costs to offering on-site child care, but the benefits – financial and otherwise – pay for themselves every year,” Marcario says. “As a CEO, it’s not even a question in my mind. Business leaders [and their chief financial officers] should take note.”The company’s child care program began in 1983. Three decades later, the company says it actually recoups 91% of the program costs through tax benefits, employee retention and employee engagement. Patagonia also says its family-friendly policies have helped improve productivity and have resulted in more women in management positions, and it’s proud of the fact that a full 100% of new mothers return to work after taking maternity leave.Arjuna CapitalWhile Patagonia has been proactive about gender parity, some companies have been harder to turn around, according to Natasha Lamb, director of equity research and shareholder engagement at Arjuna Capital.Arjuna, a Massachusetts-based wealth management company that champions social responsibility, and it invests in some of the biggest tech companies in the US, including eBay, Expedia, GoDaddy, Facebook, Alphabet, Intel, Adobe, Microsoft and Amazon. Last year, Lamb decided to take a bold public stance on the gender wage gap by filing shareholder resolutions at each of these companies, requesting that they publicly share data on the differences in pay between men and women.The companies’ responses were mixed. For example, Intel, Apple and Microsoft agreed to share their data, revealing that male and female employees are paid the same or nearly the same wages. Google and Adobe haven’t complied, nor has Facebook, though it has said that male and female employees are paid equitably.This was not Lamb’s first time pushing tech giants to consider equal pay for women. In 2014, she filed a first shareholder resolution to eBay requesting data on gender and pay; only 8% of shareholders voted for it. “I really expected that eBay would be more proactive and receptive and work with us. But that didn’t happen,” Lamb says.“It was the first year a gender pay gap proposal was ever filed and ever went to a vote. As an emerging investor issue, it did not garner the support of the proxy advisory firms, which recommend how investors should cast their votes. Plus, at that point no other companies had taken any action. The Gap was the only company to claim it had no gender pay gap.”By 2016, Lamb had filed proposals at nine big tech companies, and many of them were beginning to disclose their pay gaps and commit to closing them. “So by the spring of 2016, [investors] viewed the gender pay gap as a competitive issue critical for attracting and retaining top talent. Peers were taking action on equal pay.”As a result, in 2016 the vote went up, with 51% of votes cast in favor of disclosing pay disparities at the company. Ebay finally released the gender and pay data in October, revealing that women earn nearly the same salaries as men in equivalent roles – they get 99.8% of what men earn, to be exact. While Lamb says few companies report complete compensation, which would include salary, bonuses, and stock grants, Ebay said that its data includes those additions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A carnival float sponsored by Salesforce. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoSalesforceThe tech giant, which signed the White House pledge, underwent a massive audit in 2015, looking at salaries for its 17,000 employees and whether there were differences based on gender and job function. Salesforce found that 6% of its workers needed a salary adjustment, and spent nearly $3m to “eliminate statistically significant differences in pay”, which affected both men and women.Going beyond just wage equity, Salesforce has added schools with more diverse student populations to its roster of places to recruit new employees. The company has also launched a new leadership training program for employees that it says has boosted the number of women who were promoted by 33% in the last year. As far as benefits, Salesforce has increased employee parental leave for both women and men to 12 weeks off at 80% salary, and allows them to return gradually by working reduced hours for the first four weeks at full pay.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Expedia analytics team workers Mike Brown, left, Saurin Pandya and Prashanti Tata chat in an alcove set up for employees, in Bellevue, Wash. Photograph: Elaine Thompson/APExpediaWashington-based travel site Expedia says it strives to address diversity in the workplace beyond just looking at wage parity. The company says that it pays men and women equally for equivalent roles, including bonuses and stock-based compensation. And, 51% of Expedia’s employees in the US are women.However, the harder task is getting women into management roles. Currently, only 33% of Expedia’s manager level and senior or executive leadership positions are held by women.“While we compare well with many of our technology peers, we have a long way to go in bringing more female representation into leadership roles,” says Dara Khosrowshahi, president and CEO of Expedia. “We need to attract, hire, engage and promote talent of all kinds all around the world, and we believe that by enriching the diversity of workforce across all dimensions, including gender, we achieve the most enriched outcomes.”As far as benefits, Expedia offers 12 weeks of paid parental leave for both women and men. However, Nikki Krishnamurthy, executive vice president, says that it’s hard for the company to determine what causes women to leave the company after having children. Expedia has studied retention rates across gender, finding similar rates among male and female employees. Most women, Krishnamurthy says, return after the leave, adding: “But that isn’t to say that after a year or two that they don’t make an alternative career choice.”