What?! Maris Pipers (in season now), acorn squashes, chicory and cauliflowers do nothing for you? Though I have some sympathy: as we wave a sombre farewell to the British fresh pea and bean season, I have to confront my morbid fear of the Jerusalem artichokes that dominate the eat-local scene in winter.But if you're a person who craves strawberries as the nights draw in, you aren't as much of a sustainability refusenik as you might think. According to climate change expert Dr Benito Müller's 2007 research on food miles, western consumers actually have a moral duty to eat strawberries out of season. First he showed how out-of-season produce grown in the UK can involve more food miles than imported goods. Next he argued against the moral folly of shutting out producers from sub-Saharan Africa on the spurious planet-friendly reason that local British food has fewer emissions. UK consumers spend £1m a day on fresh fruit and vegetables from producers in this region — precisely those people disproportionately affected by climate change. Another report calculated that "pulling up the drawbridge" on imports from Africa would reduce total emissions by a paltry 0.1%. Was it worth championing local above these imports?Not according to organic certifiers the Soil Association. The organisation has allowed air-freighted imports to wear its badge since 2007. Although air-freighting organic produce is bound to upset locavores (those who focus on decreasing the distance from field to fork), there is a logic. Synthetic fertiliser and pesticide production, largely prohibited from organic agriculture, cause significantly more emissions than air freighting.And there are now opportunities to support Fairtrade through your five-a-day. Fairtrade bean sprouts may sound like the stereotype earth mother's fantasy food, but since last year they are a reality – the Fairtrade Foundation now air-freights beans direct from Kenya and there are plans to extend the range to baby corn, fresh chilli and broccoli.This is not the same as an unthinking supermarket selling Chinese apples down the road from seasonal orchards in Kent (as happened recently). Neither will imported fruit and veg ever tick all eco boxes – it still relies on oil. But look out for fair miles rather than just food miles and you can keep eating fruit and veg all year around.If you have an ethical dilemma, send an email to Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or visit theguardian.com/profile/lucysiegle to read all her articles in one place