Silent Witness9pm, BBC1Can a leopard change its spots? More pertinently, can a murderer change his true nature, even with a new identity? That’s the issue at the heart of this two-parter. At her organisation The Origin Centre, Dr Sasha Blackburn (Lyndsey Marshal) specialises in rehabilitating murderers who, as it turns out, are all relocated conveniently close to one another. When one felon is himself murdered, the investigation inevitably recalls a past child murder. Macabre stuff, with echoes of such killings in our own time. John RobinsonThe Undateables9pm, Channel 4Now in its fifth series, Channel 4’s bracing but sensitive study of dating with a disability has grown no less compelling; not least because of its reinforcement of the curious lesson that people often seem to become nicer, funnier and more humble and thoughtful the more actual problems they have, just as vice is often versa. Tonight’s hopefuls are George, a 23-year-old paralysed from the waist down by a car accident; David, an Essex magician with a learning disability; and Bethany, who has Down’s syndrome. Andrew MuellerMiss Transgender: Britain’s New Beauty Queens9pm, BBC3A look behind the scenes of one beauty contest that feels as if it is run for the benefit of its contestants: Miss Transgender UK is about affirming, not conforming. For each contestant, it means something different. The way this doc takes us inside several trans women’s quests for (self-) acceptance should make a valuable contribution to increased understanding, even if the competitive nature of a pageant doesn’t always foster tolerance between the participants. Jack SealeNature’s Wonderlands: Islands of Evolution9pm, BBC4Tropical islands are the experimental skunkworks of evolution: discrete, fecund laboratories where nature explodes in unexpected ways. In the first of three films, Professor Richard Fortey washes up in Hawaii, the most isolated archipelago on the planet. Digging deep into the exotic local flora, fauna and geology with the help of some reassuringly laidback local scientists, he discovers volcano-proof silversword plants, weird-billed honeycreepers and some very hungry caterpillars. Graeme VirtueBones9pm, Sky LivingEmily Deschanel and David Boreanaz return as crime-fighting couple Brennan and Booth. As the series opens they’re in semi-retirement, having stepped away from murder cases to spend more time with their children. Their domestic bliss doesn’t last long when they get drawn into a murder investigation after the discovery of a burnt-out van full of bodies. With Booth nowhere to be seen, Brennan can’t bear to think he’s one of the victims, but if he wasn’t in the van could he be a suspect? These two never get any peace. Hannah VerdierCrashing10pm, Channel 4Episode two of the sitcom following a group of property guardians. Free-spirited Lulu (played by the show’s creator, Phoebe Waller-Bridge) continues to drive a wedge between Anthony and his fiancee. Not content with moving into the old hospital alongside them, she’s soon working with Kate, and failing to get the hang of just about everything. Elsewhere, Melody homes in on Crying Colin. Despite a peculiar premise, this latest addition to the millennials-behaving-badly genre is yet to hit any kind of stride. Hannah J DaviesTracey Ullman’s Show10.45pm, BBC1The second episode of Ullman’s new sketch show sees a deviant Dame Judi Dench return to wreak more senseless havoc upon an adoring public, a ludicrously practical (in the style of French and Saunders’s “stuff and nonsense” ladies) Duchess of Cornwall babysit Prince George, and some middle Englanders become accidental people-traffickers after a trip across the Channel. Ullman is a brilliant mimic, but her subject matter can feel slightly random and the skits are strangely structured, often resulting in no discernible punchline. Rachel AroestiFilm choiceSleepers (Barry Levinson, 1996) 11pm, ITV4A hefty drama full of star turns. In the 60s, four kids from the New York slums are sent to a reform school ruled by sadistic paedophile Kevin Bacon. Fourteen years on, two of the kids, now Scorsese-style wiseguys, kill their one-time abuser and are protected by another of the four, the now assistant DA, Brad Pitt. Top-notch acts, including Robert De Niro’s priest and Dustin Hoffman’s faded lawyer, keep the melodrama rolling. Paul HowlettThe Man Who Fell to Earth (Nicolas Roeg, 1976) 12.35am, Horror ChannelIt’s so hard to believe that David Bowie, the Starman, has gone. Here he is in all his otherworldly beauty, barely having to act to play an alien who crash-lands in New Mexico and rises to build a corporate empire – from where he plots a return to his drought-ridden planet. But earthly ambitions, and his love for nurse Candy Clark, threaten the project in a dazzling display from Roeg. PHToday’s best live sportTennis: The Australian Open The grand slam tournament gets underway in Melbourne. 7.45am, Eurosport 1Test Cricket: South Africa v England The final day of the third Test. 8am, Sky Sports 2Big Bash Cricket: Melbourne Renegades v Adelaide Strikers T20 from the Docklands Stadium. 8.30am, Sky Sports 1Premier League Football: Swansea City v Watford Struggling Swansea look to improve their home record. 7pm, Sky Sports 1