Ali Alvarez does not have many memories of her mother’s death but one distressingly vivid snapshot stayed with her for years. She was 11 and attending her mom’s funeral when she gazed, horrified, at her mother’s body as it lay in an open casket. It was only when Ali was in her 20s and mentioned it to her dad that he corrected her: there had been no open casket and she had never seen her body. In fact, she and her brother had refused to attend the ceremony.More memories have resurfaced in recent years for Ali, who is 38, but they have not come through conversations with her family, or therapy, but by striking up a relationship with an insect – a monarch butterfly.Ali was born in Mexico, to Mexican parents who moved to Los Angeles, along with her and her older brother, when she was six. A couple of years later, her mother became ill. “I didn’t really understand what it was but I knew it was cancer.” She has few memories of her mother being well. “My childhood memories are mostly of her sick,” she says. “She was sick for what felt a long time.”Only a few images stayed with her: “I remember her being in pain and really sick, really frail with chemo. I remember her being carried upstairs and downstairs, and I remember her puking quite a lot.”Her dad, a rather shy civil engineer, dealt with the tragedy of her premature death by rarely mentioning it. “He never talked about my mom. There weren’t pictures around the house. The good thing he did was let me throw myself into horse-riding.” Ali was “the poor kid” who mucked out the stables and tacked up the horses for wealthier children. She exercised horses for a showjump trainer and in return was given lessons. “I was brought up by horses. I spent every hour at the stables. I’d go there after school until sunset every day.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Monarch butterflies at a sanctuary in Michoacan state, Mexico. Photograph: Alianza-WWF-Telcel/EPAAfter art college, she talked herself into an internship with a big ad agency in London and settled there, working all hours in the high-octane advertising industry. On a rare sabbatical, she returned to Mexico for a month. A friend picked up a guidebook that mentioned tours to see monarch butterflies, which fly between North America and Mexico every year and gather in forests in huge swarms. They climbed a mountain and in a sunlit glade found thousands of brilliant orange monarchs; migrants like her.“I thought, how come nobody’s ever told me about this? My family said, ‘Oh yes, we’ve heard of them and know it’s wonderful.’ It wasn’t wonderful, it totally, completely floored me. I was in awe.”She was fascinated by this spectacular migration and its impact on those who regularly witness it. She began researching it, and discovered stories of people seeing monarchs when a loved one passed away. Ali had stumbled on a fascinating piece of symbolism that recurs in many societies, ancient and modern: the belief that butterflies represent the human soul or spirit set free.Late-medieval butterfly lovers in Britain saw a Christian morality tale in the lifecycle of the insect: we were industrious, greedy caterpillars, doomed to toil on this earth but each with a chance to transform ourselves into a butterfly, a soul ascending into heaven. In 17th-century Ireland, white butterflies were regarded as the souls of children. In 20th-century China, butterflies were found in the cells of executed convicts who had recently converted to Buddhism.Ali read some startling tales of butterflies appearing during times of mourning, including a detective who saw monarch butterflies rising from the dusty rubble of Ground Zero after the 9/11 attacks. She also spotted how it all connected through Mexico’s Day of the Dead, which occurs every autumn at the time migrating monarchs return from North America to their ancestral homeland. Traditionally, the butterflies are viewed as the returning souls of the dead.She dreamed of making a film about this remarkable butterfly but it looked like fate would stop her. On the day she made a video to crowd-source the money for a documentary, she fell off a horse while riding through Epping forest, near London, and suffered a severe brain injury.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ali Alvarez as a baby with her mother.When Ali woke, she had no short-term memory. But one recent recollection floated into her mind – the Kickstarter video she’d just made. “It was the one thing my body held on to that day, so I placed a lot of importance on it,” she says. “I thought, ‘I have to make this film because some weird part of my brain remembered it.’”First, she had to recover from her brain injury. For six months, she mostly slept. Her dad and his partner, Joan, moved from California to London to help look after her and she had to teach herself to walk and write again. While she was still in hospital, her dad told Ali it was 1 October and asked her if she knew its significance. She suddenly remembered it was her partner Verity’s birthday. When Verity arrived for her daily visit, Ali sang happy birthday as she walked into the hospital room “and I remembered everything from that moment on. Doctors say sometimes you just need a trigger in your brain to make you snap back into it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The trailer for Muerte Es Vida.After her injury, she could not return to full-time work and, at her second attempt, raised enough money on Kickstarter to make her documentary. She also got on a horse again because she needed to ride one up the Mexican mountains to film the butterflies. When she first got back on a horse, with her former riding trainer in California, “there, suddenly, in the riding arena was a monarch butterfly. I’d never seen one there before. They are pretty mystical creatures.”When Ali travelled to rural Mexico to film the monarchs, she was not immediately welcomed: people were suspicious of the cameras, and didn’t believe she was Mexican because her Spanish sounded so North American. She chatted to a woman from the conservation charity alternare.org who was putting her up for the night and mentioned her mother originally came from San Juan de los Lagos, a renowned place of pilgrimage. Her conservationist friend suggested Ali tell local people that fact when she tried filming the next day. “The moment I said it, local people literally opened their doors and said, ‘Come in.’ We had the best day filming.”Monarch butterfly migration to Mexico jumps after years of decline It is a small example of how Ali feels that the film, and her own life, has been touched by her mother. “What is this weird confidence that I have?” she says. “I just seem to have this luck and spirit of trying stuff and succeeding.” She spoke to her aunty, who told her: “‘You’re just finishing off what your mom didn’t have time to do.’ I do kind of feel that in a way.”Without meaning to, Ali’s film about the wondrous migration of the monarchs metamorphosed into an exploration of bereavement and recovery: Muerte Es Vida (Death is Life). “I thought I was making a film about butterflies and it ended up being a documentary about death, in a really beautiful, gentle way,” she says. “This film was 100% made because of the loss of my mom. It’s an example of the beauty that can come from loss.”The film does not directly address her own long-neglected grief but instead beautifully and sensitively examines grieving people across Mexico, North America and Britain who have found solace in encounters with butterflies.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ali Alvarez … ‘I’m really proud of the way Mexico deals with death traditionally – I want to share that.’Particularly moving is the story of the Bish sisters from Ohio who were given a monarch caterpillar by their kindergarten teacher shortly before their older brother, Sam, died. Their mom considered the gift a bit silly but the children enjoyed watching the caterpillars grow and create its chrysalis. Sam passed away and the whole family found themselves anxiously waiting to see if the butterfly would emerge. On the day of Sam’s funeral, the monarch flew free from its chrysalis.In rural Mexico, Ali was struck by the degree of comfort provided by the Day of the Dead celebrations. “It’s a really amazing tradition – one day of the year that you talk about people who passed away, build an altar, bring up stories. You’re not left alone in your grief and in your memory of a person. Everyone in your neighbourhood comes together to tend to the graves and you’d see little kids and dogs and aunties running around the cemetery. We never did that. We have such an isolated way of dealing with death. I’m really proud of the way Mexico deals with death traditionally – I want to share that with people.”Her dad has watched Muerte Es Vida twice, and it encouraged them to talk about their loss a little more. For this story, Ali was asked for old photos of her and her mom. She didn’t think any existed, but she emailed her dad in California and he sent her 50. “My memories were of her really sick, hospitals and doctors but the pictures were typical happy family pictures – camping trips, walking the dog. There were really happy times and we did normal things and we were in the sunshine, like everybody else. I cried. It was like looking at someone else – that little girl who lost her mum.”In this way, Ali sees how the act of making Muerte Es Vida has drawn her closer to the biggest bereavement in her life. “I wasn’t uncomfortable with it before but I feel really at peace with it now,” she says. “Seeing the people in this film and their way of dealing with it, they are so positive about things, it’s been really healing for me.”• Watch the trailer and sign up for the latest screening information for Muerte Es Vida at muerteesvida.com