Actor David TennantThe night before the first public performance, you’re actually in the theatre, doing technical rehearsals and making sure everything runs smoothly. It’s all very busy – it’s not a night off. But I think that’s best because, for me, it’s really an exercise in panic management. You’re trying to convince your brain that it’s possible to remember a sequence of words and movements in front of 850 people without having a heart attack. I don’t think I’d want to be sitting at home trying to be calm, because I’m sure that wouldn’t work.The whole challenge is convincing yourself that you’re not going to forget your lines or wet yourself or whatever. You start rehearsing these little speeches in your head, where you have to apologise to the audience because you can’t carry on and you’re going to have to go to your dressing room and have a little cry.You can be rehearsing those speeches while you’re actually on stage, saying your lines. It’s all mind games, really.Actors are famously superstitious, but I try not to be. I have an abhorrence of superstition. I will happily say “Macbeth” in the wings. Inevitably, though, you find yourself falling into a routine, then you get nervous about changing it. I usually get to the theatre around 5pm and have something to eat. Nothing special: Pret seems to be taking an enormous amount of my wages at the moment. We have a fight call at around 6pm – you have to rehearse fight scenes every night for safety’s sake – then there’s a bit of time with the rest of the cast, so you can check in on everyone.After that, I like to have a bit of solitude. I have my own dressing room, which is not too bad. They’ve done it up recently, and I haven’t yet seen a mouse, which is quite unusual for a West End theatre. At the half [the half-hour call over the tannoy], I like to listen to an album. For every show, I land on a soundtrack, then I have to listen to it every night. This is my superstition, I suppose. For this show, it’s Rag’n’Bone Man’s Human. For Hamlet, it was a Coldplay album, and for Richard II it was David Bowie’s Nothing Has Changed. There’s no real logic to what the album is – it’s just whatever happens to be around and seems to fit. But then I have to play it every night, even if I’m sick of it.Our audiences are lovely and enthusiastic, but getting out of the theatre after a show can be a little crazy. I try to get out as quietly as possible, then I have the drive home to wind down. As someone who grew up a Scottish Presbyterian, where guilt is one’s engine in life, there’s something really enjoyable about playing such an inhuman character. It’s quite titillating – as long as you leave it behind in the dressing room every night.David Tennant is currently appearing in Don Juan In Soho at Wyndham’s Theatre, London.Designer Sophia Webster: ‘There’s always drama’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The accessories designer backstage at London fashion week. Photograph: Manuel Vazquez for the GuardianThe day before a fashion week presentation, I spend the whole day at the venue, starting at around 9am. I meet my design, communication and production teams: I need lots of people who are good with their hands. It used to be just me and my husband Bobby [who works with Webster as the brand’s chief executive] with his drill; now I am lucky enough to have set designers.I like to make it an experience for the people who come to the event. This time, there was a giant snow globe with models inside it and tables made of ice. I had to buy the snow globe and test it beforehand, putting the girls inside to make sure everything worked. I was worried about them being cold, so we put shearling on the ice thrones, and hot-water bottles and hand warmers where we could.There are lots of things that could go wrong: drama of some sort or another. One of the main looks this time was a pair of light-up boots. They worked perfectly at all the fittings, but when the model put them on just before the presentation, one of the light-up sections wasn’t working. Bobby was an electrical engineer before I started the company, and he cut up the lining and rewired the boot so it worked. I remember when we did a tropical-themed show in Regent’s Park for spring/summer 2014, and the gazebo fell down – twice. I didn’t find out until afterwards. I would always call my husband if there was a problem. He’s very level-headed and strategic; I’m more creative and emotional.The evening before a presentation is a mix of emotions. I’m excited, anxious, apprehensive. Sometimes, it feels like a weird sleepover. There are moments of madness, of giggling, and a feeling of it all coming together. It’s a rollercoaster. I have had times when I’ve had an hour’s sleep and then had to get up to go to the venue. This season, at least I went to bed, though I didn’t sleep much because I was too anxious. I switch off by watching trash TV – I’m the trash TV queen. I like Towie, Made In Chelsea, The Real Housewives Of Cheshire, the Kardashians. You can completely zone out.Astronaut Andrew Feustel: ‘You kind of say your goodbyes’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Astronaut Andrew Feustel prepares for his third mission into space in a 3D simulator in Houston. Photograph: Scott Dalton for the GuardianWe use these 3D simulators to prepare for something we call “track and capture”. The simulation dome represents the work station inside the International Space Station (ISS). We track incoming spacecraft, then grapple with them using the robotic arm. The training tends to be far harder than the real thing, so we’re prepared for every eventuality. It’s a bit like trying to grab a baby that’s running away from you, except the baby is the size of two VW Beetles stuck together.I’ve been on two space shuttle missions. The first was in 2009, to repair the Hubble telescope. That was 13 days in space. The second was a 16-day mission in 2011 to the ISS, so I’ve been there before. But with this mission, the plan is to live there for six months. I’m a year into the two-year training period.We’ll launch out of the cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, so that’s where I’ll be based the night before. I’ll try to talk to my family and friends. The last time, I called everyone I could think of and said, “Hey, tomorrow I’m going on the rocket and I just wanted to tell you I love you and make sure you’re OK and tell you I’m going to be OK.” You kind of say your goodbyes to them. It is a strange conversation.We don’t have any simulators that can replicate a launch experience, so the first time you fly into space, you really have no idea what to expect. You can hear other people’s stories, but until you’re the one strapped in on your back and the rocket lights beneath you, you don’t know the emotions, the physical feelings, the sounds. It’s the most exhilarating, dynamic, scary event you’ve ever lived through.I don’t know if there’s anything you can compare it to. Perhaps childbirth. I don’t know – watching the birth of my children was maybe the only time I’ve ever felt amazed and afraid and excited at the same time.I hope I have the opportunity to do some spacewalks. I’ve done them before and they were the most exciting times. You get the best view when you’re outside and there’s just your visor separating you from space. On my previous missions, I was more like a visitor on vacation. I’m looking forward to actually living in space: to planning meals and activities for the week and cleaning house, all the daily, real-life stuff. On my previous missions, I saw the beauty of Earth, but this time I hope I can really experience it and see it over and over again. To really look at those details I could only glimpse before.Cyclist Chris Froome: ‘Massage time is the most privacy you get’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Froome preparing for the Volta a Catalunya race. Photograph: Manuel Vazquez for the GuardianI always have a massage the night before a race, especially if it’s a stage race and we’re competing for days. I’ve been working with David Rozman for a few years now. He knows my body and can pick up on all the tight spots. My back gets a lot stiffer than it used to. I wouldn’t say the massage is a pleasurable experience. It can be pretty painful, especially when you’ve got tender legs and a 100kg Slovenian putting all his weight into you.I like to read fiction when I get the chance – something completely unrelated to what we’re doing. That said, this Wilbur Smith book has come with me on the last 10 races and I’m only halfway through. There’s very little downtime. After a race, you’ll get on the team bus and transfer to the hotel, which can take a couple of hours, so you usually get in at 9pm. Then you have dinner together, have a massage, get your head down and get some rest. There isn’t much time for family when you’re on the road – you just end up feeling guilty if they come out to see you and spend all day waiting around. So it’s better, in my opinion, to keep the two separate. I try to get my wife on Skype or Facetime from the team bus, so I can talk to my son before he goes to bed. He’s 15 months old, so he has few words, but he gets excited when he sees me.Once we’re on the road, the team are in each other’s pockets. We eat together, and normally you’re rooming with someone. I think massage time is probably the most privacy you get. I don’t mind it: I went to boarding school. It can be quite fun. With grand tours, races like the Tour de France, you end up feeling a lot closer to everyone, and by the end it really is as if you’re a band of brothers.We get up early and have rice for breakfast. (We eat a lot of rice. Rice for breakfast, compact rice bars when we’re on the road, a bowl of rice when you get off the bike, then rice for dinner.) Then we’ll get on the bus and head to the start of the race. Normally when the bus pulls up there’s about an hour and a half until the start of the race, so we’ll play music on the bus speakers to get us going. We take it in turns to be in charge of the playlist. I just hope it isn’t my team-mate, Wout Poels, because we end up listening to Dutch rap. I prefer chilled house music.I don’t have lucky socks or anything like that; I’m not superstitious. There are plenty of things you could worry about: the weather, the roads. You don’t know whether a dog is going to run out in front of you, or a child. You might get a car that hasn’t seen the race warnings, so they’re trying to drive up the hill when you’re coming down. Last year, on Mont Ventoux, the crowds were so large they stopped the camera motorbikes getting through, so they slammed on their brakes and we slammed into the back of them [Froome ended up running part of the race until he could get on a replacement bike]. Something like that could always happen again, but you can’t waste your energy worrying.Soldier Catherine Smith: ‘I write letters to family and friends’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Captain Catherine Smith preparing for deployment to South Sudan. Photograph: Manuel Vazquez for the GuardianIt is important to have some alone time the night before I am deployed. Because of shared rooms and moving around, I won’t ever be on my own on the mission, which will last around five months. I need to take that time to gather my thoughts, because of the responsibility I am about to take on.I’m being deployed to South Sudan to support the UN while it builds a hospital. As the strategic communications officer, I’ll be under a lot of pressure to understand the area and the people, and how best to make a positive impact. There is also the concern over the region’s ongoing insecurity, with the risk of escalating violence and the worsening of the humanitarian crisis.This will be my second tour: my first was as a troop commander in Afghanistan and as military aide to the UK two-star general during the presidential elections in 2014. That was a very different mission – we were going out as a regiment and it was fairly clear what we were going to do and what the tour would look like. This time I am not quite sure what to expect or what the response will be to us being there. But when it comes to the night before heading out, my routine will be fairly similar.I’ll spend the day with my family before returning to barracks in the evening. While I’m home, I like to eat my favourite things, like chicken pie and apple crumble. When I’m back at the base, I’ll probably be on my own, adjusting my packing, which is when I go into work mode. I’ll start to feel a sense of trepidation about the job I am about to do, but I find a good way of dealing with my nerves is writing letters to family and close friends. I’ll carry on writing to them throughout the mission, because going on tour is a big moment in my life and I have lots of feelings and experiences that are quite easy to normalise by the end and then forget. I find it easier to write letters than a diary.I also calm myself by speaking to people on the phone. My family and friends have always been incredibly supportive, so they are very good at focusing on the positives. We like to talk about the things we will do together when I’m back, things to look forward to.There is a bar in the barracks, so I might have a gin and tonic as my last drink for a while, but I am not really a big drinker. I like to be focused on getting ready, and make lists of what I need to do the next day. Even if it’s just writing down that I need to do my stretches, which is what I do every morning, I make sure I don’t forget anything. I feel calmer by preparing and having everything in order. I also get an early night, because the flights the next day are often early. So I like to be in bed by 10pm and read for a bit to send me off to sleep.• Smith’s name has been changed for security reasons.Musician Nile Rodgers: ‘I can’t wait to get out there’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nile Rodgers getting ready at the Roxy Hotel, New York. Photograph: Reed Young for the GuardianWhen I play guitar, I’m just entertaining the hell out of myself. I’m having a blast, whether I’m playing to a crowd of 10,000 or busking. I can’t wait to get out there. I don’t get nervous. I don’t have to prepare. I don’t have a spiritual moment or get everyone together for a prayer or anything like that. Please. We’re just on it, like, “Yo, count it off, bro. One, two, three, four,” and that’s it. These days, the count is just, “One!” We just want to get to the show.I’d say the closest we get to a spiritual moment is trying to decide what to wear. I love fashion and I have lots and lots of outfits the night before a tour. Tours build camaraderie, even when you’re already comrades. It makes you a more loving family. Last year, we were on tour with Duran Duran. I love them. I call them my second Chic; they’re my other band. As close as we are, we got even closer. When we did the final show of the tour, they all ran out on stage with us. I almost started crying – it was beautiful. So imagine this year, going on tour with Earth, Wind & Fire and Duran Duran. Are you kidding me? It’s like heaven on earth.We never rehearse. It frustrates the hell out of my road manager. He’s always trying to get us studio time and I say, “What for?” If we’ve got a new song, we’ll just try it in the soundcheck. But you know how bands learn to play perfectly? Make a mistake in front of 10,000 people. When I was younger, Luther Vandross, Bernard Edwards and I developed a concept: the philosophy of “loud and proud” – that is, if you play a wrong note, play it louder the second time.There’s a code we live by: the job is free, because we love it. The thing that we get paid for is the horrible travel and sleeping in shitty hotels and eating horrible food. When Bernard and I designed Chic, we designed ourselves as an opening act. We didn’t think of ourselves as stars. We’re in the band, the guys who used to share rooms because we were always struggling.These days, it’s all a lot less wild than it was in the 1970s. I have a lot more responsibilities. My mom is suffering from latter-stage Alzheimer’s, so every day I take two hours out of my life to talk to her. She’s at the phase where she still understands me. I’m renovating my house, so they’re tearing it down around me. I’m in the middle of making two documentaries for the BBC, and I’ve just cut what I think is going to be the new Chic single. Then I’m on the phone with Daft Punk’s manager… It’s not like before, when life was simple and we just went on the road and partied all the time.Neurosurgeon Owase Jeelani: ‘I never sleep well before a big case’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Owase Jeelani, consultant paediatric neurosurgeon at Great Ormond Street children’s hospital, in Epping Forest. Photograph: Manuel Vazquez for the GuardianSurgeons are creatures of habit. Most of us need things to be done in a structured fashion, so I always follow the same routine. I get up at 4.30am and try to be at the hospital by 6.30am at the latest. If it’s a quiet day, I’ll go for a swim and have breakfast, but when we’re really busy, I’ll be straight into surgery. As long as I’m in by 6.30am, just having that little bit of control really helps me feel I can deal with the unpredictability of the day.If I have a big case coming up, I know that I won’t sleep well the night before. That’s true of most surgeons: we just accept it as a given. I don’t try to fight it. I’ll eat something healthy and go to bed at a sensible hour, but I know my sleep will be a light sleep, and I’ll be up at 2am or 3am. Then I think, “There’s no point staying in bed or risking waking the kids up,” so I’ll go into work and look at the scans.At the moment we’re very busy. We have admitted 12 children with brain tumours in the last two weeks, which is unusually high. I’ll be operating from 8am to 9pm every single day. I remember as a junior surgical trainee having to assist a senior surgeon with a complex case and being very aware that I needed to go to the loo. Of course, as a trainee, you can’t really request a loo break – you wouldn’t make the grade as a surgeon if you did. But now, I’ll do 12‑hour operations without the urge for a loo break, without noticing if I’m hungry or thirsty or if my back hurts. Everything else vanishes, apart from that absolute focus. Then you finish the surgery and, just as the child is waking up, you start to zone back in and all those things register. At that point, you just crash.It is exhausting, but it’s not so much the physical as the emotional burden that weighs on you. For example, if I’m dealing with a complex tumour that is very close to the optic nerve, it’s impossible not to think, “If I make a mistake, this child will be blind.” The stress of that is tough. And there isn’t a lot of time to decompress. I try to get back home as quickly as possible to see my kids before they go to bed. At the weekends, we spend a lot of time in Epping Forest. Quite often, I’ll take my bike out and go for a ride. Physical things like that really help.Having my own children changed my attitude to work completely. You start to see your own kids in the kids you’re treating. When a new chart comes in, I’ll look at the date of birth and my instinctive reaction is to work out which of my own children is closest in age. It’s automatic.Usually, you see the parents before surgery for at least one clinic visit, but some of the kids we look after are born with congenital problems and need care and multiple surgeries throughout their growing lives. So there’s a bond there. It’s never easy to move on, not in paediatrics. You could put up a block and be the quintessential hard-nosed surgeon who is technically great and doesn’t feel a thing, or you can channel that emotional energy into something positive and use it to inspire you.Interviews by Lauren Cochrane, Rosie Ifould, Abigail Radnor