Throughout history, pastry chefs have dedicated their finest delicacies to people of note: the pavlova was named after the famous Russian ballerina and choreographer; peach melba after the Australian opera singer Nellie Melba; the savarin after the French gastronome, Jean-Anthelme Brillat-Savarin; and the battenberg, which is said to have been named after Prince Louis of Battenberg.To be the namesake of a pastry is quite an honour, I would imagine. I, on the other hand, have lost my identity to cakes. Literally. For years people have referred to me as “Cakes”. It all started when I first moved to London. New friends would enter me into their mobile phones as “Claire Cakes” to differentiate me from their other Claires. The abbreviation stuck. But back to Prince Louis ...Rachel Roddy’s chocolate almond cake recipe | A Kitchen in Rome When the prince married Princess Victoria (Queen Victoria’s granddaughter), the battenberg was their wedding cake. The chequered sponge was said to represent the prince and his three brothers. Another account claims that the original battenberg had nine squares rather than four. Stories such as these are forever intriguing to a baking nerd like me.The battenberg cake is one of Britain’s most beloved bakes. It can be found anywhere from supermarket shelves to the finest tea rooms in the land, but I had always been so intimidated by the assembly, and the prospect of it falling apart, that I had avoided it. Then I came across a special battenberg cake tin – which is divided into four long, rectangular compartments – and I finally decided to give it a go.A battenberg tin eliminates much of the cutting and trimming otherwise required, but the recipe is so easy that I would recommend you try it with or without a special tin. (I’ve given directions for how to make it both ways.) It’s surprisingly sturdy once assembled, and never fails to delight the eyes. Battenberg cakeServes 8215g butter215g caster sugarRed and yellow food colouring 3 large eggs1 ½ tsp vanilla215g fine plain flour2 tsp baking powder150g apricot jamIcing sugar, for rolling500g golden marzipan1 Preheat the oven to 170C/335F/gas mark 3½. Butter and line a 20cm x 15cm battenberg tin, or two 20cm x 7.5cm straight-sided loaf tins.2 Beat together the butter and sugar until fluffy. Divide the mixture between two bowls, and dye each with different food colouring. The amount to use varies greatly depending on the quality of your colouring. Start with a small amount and go from there until you have the desired colour intensity.3 Beat the eggs together with the vanilla in separate bowl. Divide this between the yellow and pink mixtures, beating to combine.4 Sift the baking powder and flour twice. Divide the flour between the bowls and fold it into the mixtures.5 Spread the mixture into the prepared tin or tins accordingly. Bake for 40-50 minutes or until the cakes spring back to the touch. Remove from the oven and allow them to cool in the tin(s).6 Remove the cakes from the tin. If you’re using a battenberg tin, simply remove the four pieces and trim, if needed, to make four even bars. If you’re using two loaf tins, slice each slab in half lengthways and trim likewise to make four neat bars.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heat the apricot jam in a small pan. Brush all the long sides of the cake pieces with jam... Photograph: Kristin Perers for the Guardian7 Heat the apricot jam in a small pan. Brush all the long sides of the cake pieces with jam, then press them together in a checkerboard fashion.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lightly dust a work surface with the icing sugar and roll out... Photograph: Kristin Perers for the Guardian8 Lightly dust a work surface with the icing sugar. Roll the block of marzipan out and trim to 20cm x 30cm. With a clean, dry pastry brush, dust away as much icing sugar from the marzipan as you can. Then check for the smoothest side (it may be the underneath side) and have that facing down.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brush the top of the marzipan with melted jam. Place the block of cake on the left-hand side and roll... Photograph: Kristin Perers for the Guardian9 Brush the top of the marzipan with melted apricot jam. Place the block of cake on the left-hand side of the marzipan and roll to the right until it is encased. Rest for 30 minutes for the jam to set and glue it all together, then slice and serve. This keeps well in a tin for up to a week.Claire Ptak is an author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon