Fair play to Patrick Pipino, the father who wrote to his daughter’s school explaining that she had been late in because she had been watching a three-and-a-half-hour Springsteen show the night before. Rock’n’roll was originally an expression of youthful rebellion – even if it’s been a long time since either youth or rebellion were part of the average Springsteen gig – and if being late for school isn’t being free, free to do what we want to do, without getting hassle from the man, then it’s a start.In the spirit of manageable rebellion that doesn’t actually have any serious consequences, then, here are the rock-based excuses you might consider using to excuse lateness from school…      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   School’s out … It’s one way to explain your child’s lateness. Photograph: Facebook1. The Pink Floyd excuse“Please excuse my daughter’s lateness to school this morning. Last night she was listening to Pink Floyd’s album The Wall. After hearing the song Another Brick in the Wall Part 2, she insisted she didn’t need no education, and claimed the teachers were engaging in thought control. She raised issues relating to dark sarcasm in the classroom, and said she and the other kids wished to be left alone by the teachers. She relented after I said she was skating on the thin ice of modern life and I would confiscate her phone for her a fortnight if she didn’t go in.” 2. The arena gig excuse“Please excuse my son’s lateness for school this morning. Last night he went to a gig at the Corporate Sponsored Enormodome, from which I picked him up in the car. Unfortunately, I am texting you this message from the queue to leave the car park, which has moved no more than 50 yards in the last 13 hours. We hope to be out of here by noon, and my son will, God willing, be able to attend school this afternoon.”3. The High School Confidential excuse“Please excuse my daughter’s absence from school today. I have become concerned about the standard of education offered after reading some analyses of secondary schooling. The paper High School Confidential claims that, rather than offering ordered education producing disciplined children, that in fact ‘all the cats are at the high school rockin’’ and that everybody is either hoppin’ or boppin’. Destruction of property appears to be commonplace, too, with reports that students ‘burn off both our shoes’. Video evidence, in the form of a clip entitled … Baby One More Time, supports these claims: the clip clearly shows pupils in non-regulation uniform dancing in the school hall rather than engaging in exam preparation. My daughter will not be returning to school until these matters can be addressed to my satisfaction.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jerry Lee Lewis: High School Confidential4. The Sam Cooke excuse“Please excuse my son’s lateness for school this morning. To be frank, I’m worried about him. He’s had a crisis of confidence, and is convinced he is falling behind in the key subjects he needs to get good grades in if he is to carry on in full-time education. He told me he doesn’t know much about history or biology, nor about the contents of his science book or the French he took. These were the subjects he was planning to take at A-level, and though he can foresee circumstances in which the world would be wonderful, few of them seem to involve revision. I’ll have a word with him, but it would be helpful if the school counsellor could run through some of these issues with him.”5. The Guns N’ Roses excuse“Please excuse my daughter’s absence from school these past two days. She went to see Guns N’ Roses on Monday night, and is still waiting for the band to take to the stage. I have checked with the venue and they expect Axl Rose to be ready to perform before the end of the week. I hope she will be available to return to school on Monday.”