Britain’s Houses of Parliament can now be explored by anyone, at any time and wherever they are, thanks to the first 360-degree virtual tour of the Commons, the Lords and the spaces in between.Viewers can look at where MPs and peers argue over Brexit, where big events and ceremonies are celebrated or where the suffragette Marjory Hume chained herself to a statue, shouting: “Deeds not words.”From Wednesday, the virtual tour  allows people to explore some of parliament’s most famous rooms via their computer or mobile phone. David Natzler, the Commons clerk, said the project was opening up parliament to people who could not visit while perhaps encouraging others to make the trip in real life.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Commons chamber. Photograph: UK parliamentThe tour will be part of Google Maps, alongside similar experiences for Buckingham Palace and the White House. Anyone with a virtual reality headset will be able to get an even more immersive experience.The tour includes the interiors of the Commons and the Lords, Westminster Hall, the central lobby and St Stephen’s Hall with its statues of parliamentarians including Robert Walpole, William Pitt and John Hampden. It was there in 1909 that Hume chained herself to the statue of Viscount Falkland.John Bercow, the Commons speaker, said: “Parliament belongs to the people, so it is only right that everybody should get the chance to experience it. The virtual tour means that people from all over Britain and, indeed, all over the world can visit parliament and learn about our democratic institutions.”The tour has been developed by the company Aardvark 360. Its director, Jay Scott-Nicholls, said few locations were as visually rich as the Houses of Parliament.“The huge spaces, vaulted ceilings and large-scale artworks can only properly be captured in 360. It’s thrilling to stand virtually in these familiar rooms, close enough to see the scratches on the dispatch boxes and the creases in the leather seats.”This article was amended on 27 March 2017. An earlier version misnamed Jay Scott-Nicholls as Jay Scott-Mills.