I am sitting in the Great Holm Coffee Shop, in Milton Keynes, being served with extreme care. This clean, colourful space is open to the public and has rave reviews on TripAdvisor, but it is a cafe with a difference, staffed by adults with learning disabilities.The waiter who takes my order listens attentively and, on a laminated order form, ticks the box beside the picture of a teapot. When he returns, he places the pot, milk jug and cup and saucer on the table with great deliberateness. Over by the counter, a support worker is watching discreetly. Everywhere in the cafe, and in the kitchens, there are support workers watching – the air here is a cat’s cradle of sightlines.I am at this coffee shop run by MacIntyre, a charity that looks after 1,600 people with learning difficulties in England and Wales, to meet the photographer Polly Braden. For the past two years, she has travelled the country visiting MacIntyre’s schools, homes and day centres. The result is an extraordinary body of photographs: immediate, intimate and empathetic.We are visiting one of the MacIntyre “hubs” that Braden photographed: a modern complex with sheltered housing, classrooms, kitchens and, the hub within the hub, this adjoining cafe. There is a flurry of waiters and waitresses in aprons and hats, and an only slightly smaller flurry of support workers keeping the show on the road. All the MacIntyre provisions require an army of devoted support staff; even though they are not well paid – “It’s a vocation,” says one, sweetly – the cost of running such labour-intensive enterprises is huge. It is worrying to think what will happen when the next round of government cuts inevitably bites.At present, however, the cafe is popular and we are well served. With us at the table sit Martin and his support worker, Alison (the charity asked that we don’t use surnames). Martin, 46, is one of the most able people here, and a shining example of what the charity can do. Until he came to MacIntyre in 2007, he attended a day care centre where, for 20 years, he was essentially passive. “I used to get picked up, taken there, then they’d pick me up and take me home,” he says. “I was waited on hand and foot.”Since Martin arrived, he has learned domestic independence – budgeting, cooking, cleaning, ironing – as well as note-taking and public speaking. “I know to look at the audience, don’t talk too fast, slow down, use pictures, make eye contact to make sure they are listening to you.” Now he is employed by the charity as a part-time training and development officer, teaching life skills to others with learning disabilities. In Braden’s photographs, you can see how much he loves his job. She captured him during a Keeping Safe workshop, where he is playing the part of a bag-snatcher. Chased by Helen, a young woman with learning difficulties, he is running through undergrowth, arms out, with just the beginnings of a smile on his lips.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin teaching a Keeping Safe workshop. He is with Helen, and playing the part of a bag snatcher. Photograph: Polly BradenAt first, Martin found the work difficult – especially keeping his diary and getting up in the morning. But he has mastered this, and Alison still supports him: he rehearses lectures with her beforehand. His dream is to be self-employed, and after several years of training, he is now able to host a day-long event on his own.Having a job has triggered other changes in Martin’s life. He is now married. He’s got a dog and a two-bedroom house with a garden of turf and miniature conifers. He looks different, too. The old institutionalised Martin had a mop of grey hair; now he is cropped and blond on top, which he feels is much more modern. 'Before this, he was probably sat in the same corner for 20 years, with the same jigsaw, with the same piece missing' Is life better now? There’s a pause. Martin blinks. “It’s a million times better.” A MacIntyre fundraiser says to me quietly, “You know, he was probably sat in the same corner for 20 years with the same jigsaw for 20 years, with the same piece missing.”But this is not the MacIntyre approach. Established in 1966, the charity has a strong work ethos – the Great Holm kitchens provide a professional-level catering service to local businesses – and everyone contributes. In the kitchen we watch Lucie, 25, measuring out ingredients for brownies; by her side is a laminated recipe card with not much writing but lots of pictures. I want to ask Lucie about her swimming – Braden has taken a beautiful underwater photograph of her gliding, graceful as an otter, along the bottom of a swimming pool – but she’s concentrating. She riffles through the measuring spoons, checking and checking again. She hasn’t time for chitchat.Tessa and Mark are waiting for us on a sofa in the cafe. The couple sit, hip to hip, heads tilted together. They are clutching each other, and Mark is also holding a Tyrannosaurus rex money box, which he has painted a vivid pink, with black lips.The pair live just beside the coffee shop and share their flat with two old friends, James and Keith. Tessa works in the bakery, making cakes; Mark’s job is in another bakery. His hobbies include dancing and he is in the third pre-television screening round of Britain’s Got Talent.Tessa, 50, grew up in MacIntyre institutions and met Mark, 52, in a care home in Bedfordshire, where he was working on the farm. She still remembers him accidentally letting the chickens out. They have known each other for decades. First they were friends. Then they were boyfriend and girlfriend. Now they are man and wife.“When did we get married?” Tessa asks Mark.“Last week,” he says.In fact, the wedding was a year ago. “And I was standing there. And the minister, he said, ‘Kiss the bride’,” Tessa says in a slightly stunned voice. “And those photographs of Mark and me kissing…” She looks into the distance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark on the day he married Tessa, at Tring church in Hertfordshire. Photograph: Polly BradenThe couple had wanted the whole shebang: a church service, balloons and flowers, a car with ribbons, speeches, dancing, a cake decorated with mini-Daleks. And they got it: the congregation boogied to S Club 7’s Reach. Some of the support workers wept. Tessa’s sister Caroline, who made the wedding dress and veil, says the day was “wonderful – they both just radiated joy”. Braden’s photographs of the event show this clearly, especially the portrait of Mark, utterly joyous as he stands in the aisle, with his top hat and silver shoes.A year on, the couple still feel as if they are in the first throes of married life. In the evening they watch EastEnders together. Tessa writes her diary. There are some anxieties: she is concerned about Mark’s diet and is bothered that he has taken to sleeping on the living room sofa. But they are very happy. “I am his lawful wedded wife,” she says wonderingly. Mark is in the third pre-television screening round of Britain's Got Talent In Braden’s book, there are two photographs of Tessa and Caroline preparing for the wedding. The women are completely absorbed – in one shot, Tessa’s eyes are shut as Caroline puts on her makeup; in the other, they are looking at each other and laughing.Braden has used this sequence approach frequently in the project. “I didn’t want the camera, if you like, to gawp,” she says. “Single photographs often present a person as a final statement. With two images, you see things in a different way. You see the movement, the next gesture, the ongoing moment.”At the charity’s school in Wingrave, Buckinghamshire, Braden used this double photograph technique extensively. The school, which caters for young people with severe learning difficulties and autism, has many pupils with little or no language. Some are averse to eye contact. How could Braden convey the internal world of a profoundly autistic child? She decided to home in, as she has throughout the project, on moments of emotional connection. These could come from anything: a look, a haircut, a hug. “When I am looking through the lens, I’m always watching people’s reactions to each other: the gestures, the glances, positions, the moments between.”In the Wingrave photographs, touch and movement become hugely significant. Many of the young people in the school are highly volatile. When we arrive, there has just been some sort of outburst. One class has been dispersed around the building and a young woman is pounding the corridors, with a support worker by her side.We visit the school gym, where an enormous climbing wall stretches the length of the room. It is here that we find Charles and Callum, and I get a taste of the difficulties that Braden has faced while working on this project; difficulties that the support workers must encounter every week. Charles, 18, a thin boy who suffers acutely from anxiety, is a great climber, and very keen on getting up on to roofs. To harness this enthusiasm, Callum has invented games for him on the climbing wall. Today, there is a line of bean bags already in place on the top holds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charles (right) with Callum on the climbing wall. Charles, who suffers from acute anxiety, is a great climber. Photograph: Polly BradenCallum believes that Charles’s climbing sessions are hugely therapeutic. Not only does he get physical exercise, but he is stimulated by the sensation of holding and balancing his own body weight, and by the rough textures of the holds. And, most importantly, when they play games with hoops and bean bags, Charles is learning to engage in social interaction.Braden’s photographs show two lithe young men in bright hats, their limbs spread out against a backdrop of fruit drop-coloured holds. As they climb, they are clearly communicating. Today, however, Charles is not in such a calm, wall-climbing mood. When he sees us come into the gym, he’s immediately up on the window ledge. Then, quick as a flash, he’s clambered up on to the top of some gym equipment. Callum walks over to him and extends a beckoning hand. After a few minutes, Charles jumps down, but is still nervy.Callum calmly hands him a helmet. The boy puts it on and Callum does up the catch. Callum puts on his own helmet, then he raises his chin.“Do up my helmet,” he says. Charles does up the catch on Callum’s helmet.“OK,” says Callum. And, with Charles at his side, he walks over towards the climbing wall. Suddenly, Charles shakes his head, mutters something and zips off out of the room. Callum shrugs and smiles at us. “Another day,” he says.• A book of these photographs, Great Interactions: Life With Learning Disabilities And Autism, will be published next month by Dewi Lewis at £30. To order a copy for £24, go to bookshop.theguardian.com, or call 0330 333 6846. An exhibition will run at the National Media Museum, Bradford, from 27 February-10 April.