This is the modern world. It’s 40 years since Paul Weller spat out the chorus of the Jam’s third single, helping spark the first revival of the 60s youth cult.Yet here we are in 2017 and everything’s coming up mod again. Weller, the movement’s perennial high priest, is launching a £400,000 crowdfunded share offer on Friday to expand his mod-inspired clothing brand, Real Stars Are Rare. Parkas, many a mod’s favourite outerwear, are now mainstream and Ben Sherman, the 60s shirtmaker which lost its way, is also back trying to tap into its mod heritage. Mod, the name derived from modern jazz, peaked in the mid-60s as Britain became gripped by rising affluence and consumerism. The scene, based on smart tailoring and American rhythm and blues, turned Carnaby Street into the centre of swinging London and made stars of the Who and the Small Faces.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Weller models pieces from the collection. Photograph: Jonathan D Pryce/Real Stars Are Rare clothing The mod scene had a spikier revival in the late 70s inspired by the Jam and the Who’s 1979 film Quadrophenia but by the late-80s the movement was moribund. Weller re-embraced the look in the 90s and was nicknamed the Modfather – a tag he dislikes.Weller launched Real Stars Are Rare in 2014 with Phil Bickley, who owns the Tonic menswear shop in London’s Portobello Road. The clothes, which don’t come cheap, avoid mod cliches such as the RAF roundel used by the Who and the Jam. The button-down shirts – full price £120 – feature a “three finger” collar that Weller and Bickley apparently spent weeks honing to get the right look.Real Stars Are Rare’s is only sold online, or in Bickley’s shop. But Weller and Bickley now plan to sell 17% of the business for £400,000 to hire a design team, expand the range and spend on marketing. Weller, who now comes up with all the design ideas, will stay heavily involved.The ex-Jam frontman has invested £160,000 in the business and owns two-thirds of it. Bickley owns 19%, with the rest held by other investors. The offer values Real Stars Are Rare at £2m before any injection of new money. The label is forecast to lose £157,000 this year on sales of £260,000 but the business plan forecasts a profit of £30,000 next year and £199,000 in 2019. Weller and Bickley are aiming for a valuation of more than £8m in three or four years, when they will consider selling.À la mod: how the Jam and mod style transcended fashion Bickley estimates more than half of Real Stars Are Rare’s sales are to latter-day mods drawn by the Weller connection. This will remain part of the appeal, he says.“Whatever Paul does nods in that direction,” Bickley says. “He would be the first to admit it. We want to keep engaged with our customers but it has to keep moving. Any brand has to keep reinventing and reinterpreting to bring new people in while keeping your core ethos.”However, it is not all about Weller. Ben Sherman – a brand named after its founder which traces its roots back to Brighton in the 1960s – is also attempting a mod comeback. Sherman sold the business in the mid-1970s but apart from a brief resurgence – when the trademark shirts were adopted by mod revivalists and followers of the 2-Tone movement, led by the Specials and Madness – the brand lost its way as sportswear and global designers took over the fashion world. By 2015, when the business was sold to Marquee Brands of the US, Ben Sherman was losing more than £8m a year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Weller models a single-breasted Real Stars Are Rare blazer. Photograph: Jonathan D Pryce/Real Stars Are RareBaird Group, the menswear wholesaler, operates the Ben Sherman brand in the UK and Ireland under licence from Marquee Brands. The spring range’s products include parkas, roundel T-shirts and “mod shorts”, worn with flipflops. The autumn collection, previewed at London Fashion Week Mens in January, will be called “the spirit of mod”.Andrew Thomson, Baird’s director of wholesale and e-commerce, said: “It’s not just for people in their 40s, 50s and 60s who bought the brand the first time round – it’s also for their kids. We are trying to adapt [the brand] towards modern fashion conventions and what is more accessible for the consumer.”This article was amended on 28 February 2017 to clarify Baird Group’s links with the Ben Sherman brand and to distinguish between the brand’s spring and autumn ranges.