‘Never wear patterned trousers with a patterned top.” This is the unsolicited fashion advice I gave my younger sister Grace, when she was seven and I was 10. Grace tells me she has practised what I preached to this day, and has observed the rule so strictly that she only ever wears plain pyjamas.Apparently, I also took it on myself to tell her that she needed to get a training bra. “Did you hate me?” I ask. “Did you cringe and want to die?”“No – I thought you were my wise, fashionable big sister, guiding me through the tribulations of future teen life and peer judgment,” she lies, sweetly. Now Grace is 28 and I am 32, and a professional agony aunt, writing Grazia’s Dear Daisy column. My desire to support my sisters taught me everything I know about helping people with their problems. I’ve been doing it since I could talk, although it took me a long time to learn how to do it effectively. My sisters ignored most of my advice, mainly because I was a self-appointed bossy-boots I have five little sisters, although it seems absurd to say “little” when two are pregnant, two are homeowners and all have proper grownup careers and identities. However, when we were little, my seniority seemed significant and I spent plenty of time doling out “advice” to Beth, now 30, Grace, Jane, 26, and twins Maddy and Dotty, 23. I liked to think of myself as the conduit between my baby sisters and the grownups, and I wanted my siblings to benefit from my superior knowledge, which I had learned by making a series of mistakes. “Don’t be fooled by the chips at Nan’s Sunday lunch buffet – they’re really parsnips!” “Never, ever, ever tell a boy you like him unless he’s said he likes you first!” “If you really want to draw on a wall, write someone else’s name.” (That backfired, badly.) “Don’t try to dye your hair in the swimming pool on the school German exchange. In fact, don’t go on the German exchange.” The latter was advice that everyone ignored, and it came to a head when the twins came home with a pair of sulky Teutonic teenagers who loathed each other.If I’m honest, I think my sisters ignored most of my comments, mainly because I was a self-appointed bossyboots and my advice was based on nothing but arrogance and common sense. I’d argue with Mum, grumbling when she tried to talk me out of wearing a T-shirt as a dress and telling her that at 13, I was allowed to make my own mistakes. Then I’d turn around and tell Beth that her choice of trainers meant social death, and she had better get some Adidas Gazelles, although she wasn’t allowed to borrow mine.  Daisy Buchanan.However, something shifted when I went to university. Living semi-independently for the first time taught me that I knew nothing. Who was I to force fashion advice on my sisters when I couldn’t wash my own clothes without shrinking them? How could I give them relationship tips when I was still miserably dating a boy I met at school while sneakily snogging people at parties and having guilty, weepy meltdowns into my hangover fry-ups? I couldn’t write a decent essay or get to the end of term without ending up broke and having to make strange meals from dried pulses. The only useful advice I could give my sisters was, “Don’t copy any of my terrible decisions.”Yet it was during this period that they started coming to me for advice, instead of rolling their eyes when I spouted “wisdom” at them. Beth, also in her first year of university, was struggling with a noisy housemate. Grace was working out how to deal with a destructive friend. Jane had dating problems, Maddy was going off her boyfriend and Dotty couldn’t decide whether she wanted to go to university.Could I fix their problems, and tell them what to do? No. But I could listen, and show them that, no matter what they were going through, they didn’t have to go through it alone. I could ask questions that allowed them to make their own conclusions, and let them know that it’s normal to be sad and scared sometimes, but those feelings pass. I could give them the space to talk about their troubles, because I knew that everything seems a little less terrible once you have said it out loud.As an agony aunt, I’m asked about an array of issues. I feel privileged to be in a position where people can confide in me, and I can try to guide them towards a solution. I don’t have all the answers, but I believe that if you have a problem, you probably know what to do, even if that knowledge is buried deep within you somewhere. Most of the people who write to me are dealing with difficult choices, and they are usually struggling between doing what they want, and doing what they think they are supposed to do.As I’ve watched my sisters grow up into amazing young women, I have learned to respect their intelligence and have realised they are smart enough to solve big issues. My job isn’t about telling them what to do, but helping them to find the confidence to believe that they will do the right thing.Of course, I still have the urge to give them unsolicited advice, and I have to remind myself to bite my tongue. One recently submitted a job application, and told me she was worried that she had made a mistake. “WHY DIDN’T YOU ASK ME TO CHECK IT FOR YOU???” I typed into WhatsApp, before breathing, deleting and redrafting a reply, telling her I knew she had done a great job, and that if this didn’t work out it meant there was an even better role out there for her. I approach being an agony aunt in the same way. When it comes to giving advice, there is only one rule – never offer a solution that involves time travel.When writing my book, How to Be a Grown Up, I wrote as if I were speaking to my sisters. I knew that the only advice I was qualified to give came from what I had learned from my mistakes. In some ways, I wish I could protect them from everything, and prevent them from experiencing hurt and pain. However, realistically, I know that this isn’t possible. All I can tell them is that life can be hard, that even the smartest people are capable of doing stupid things, and that nearly every awful incident will seem hilarious once enough time has passed. I can’t give them the advice that will future-proof them from shame or pain. But I can tell them that I have embarrassed myself repeatedly and spectacularly, and it has not killed me. Yet.I think young women are socialised to strive for perfection. We focus on our flaws, we set impossibly high standards for ourselves and we lose confidence as we fail to meet our raised expectations. Being a big sister and seeing what my younger siblings are up against makes me want to give reassurance and support, as well as advice. I want them to succeed for themselves, and be proud of their successes. After years of bossily forcing my ideas on them, it warms my heart when they ask me what they should do. But ultimately, the best advice I can give them in any situation is, “Don’t worry! You’ve got this!”• How to Be a Grown Up by Daisy Buchanan is published by Headline, £14.99. To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p on orders of more than £10, online only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99. 