On 10 July 1916, the 15th battalion of the Royal Welch Fusiliers attacked Mametz Wood in northern France. Their assault was part of the recently launched Somme offensive, and followed the now familiar method of British attacks over this period. Walking in four lines across a no man’s land of thistles, wild flowers, self-sown mustard and wheat, the men of the 15th slowly advanced into sweeping machine gun fire and artillery. As conscripted soldiers, the strategy behind their offensive was no more sophisticated than that they outnumbered their professional German counterparts three to one. By the time they reached the wood that advantage had already been reduced by a third.Soldier, poet, painter: how David Jones became Britain’s visionary outsider Among the infantrymen taking part in the attack that day was a young Londoner of Welsh descent called David Jones. At 20 years old, Private Jones was an aspiring artist with no intention of becoming a writer. Twelve years later, however, it would be with a pen, not a paintbrush, that he would sit on the balcony of his parents’ house in Portslade, near Hove, and try to “make a shape in words” of his wartime experience.Over the following three years, that “shape in words” grew into what WH Auden called “the greatest book about the first world war”; the extraordinary and unique In Parenthesis. Part-biography, part-fiction, the book is a lyrical epic that traces, via an alter-ego called John Ball, the contours of Jones’s own wartime journey, from his embarkation for France in 1915 to the Somme in 1916.Although the Somme marks the climactic end of In Parenthesis, it was not the end of Jones’s wartime service. After being wounded at Mametz, he rejoined his regiment and went on to serve for a total of 117 weeks at the front, longer than any other British poet of the first world war. The Somme did, however, mark a transition, for Jones, from what he describes in the preface to In Parenthesis as “the period of the individual rifle-man, of the ‘old sweat’ of the Boer campaign”, to a “relentless, mechanised affair” of “wholesale slaughter”, that destroyed any ancient sense of continuity in the “domestic life of small contingents of men”.It is this break, this “change in the character of our lives in the infantry” as the war shifted from the personal and the human to the impersonal and the mechanised, with which In Parenthesis is often concerned. The central opposition throughout the book is not British versus German, but rather mechanical versus natural; the “unmaking” modern science of shell and machine gun versus the “making” communities of artisan infantrymen, desperately trying to maintain the form of their collapsing worlds with nothing more than their hands and tools.For Jones, the effort of revisiting his wartime memories would precipitate another kind of break. On completing the first draft of In Parenthesis, he experienced the first of several psychological breakdowns that would punctuate his life. This delayed publication of the book until 1937, by which time memoirs of the war had become something of a convention. Over the previous decade Edmund Blunden, Siegfried Sassoon and Robert Graves had all published, to wide acclaim and readership, prose accounts of their time in the trenches. In terms of subject matter and story, then, In Parenthesis appeared to be late on parade, treading familiar ground. In how it rendered and shaped that material, however, it created entirely new literary territory, as evidenced by the ecstatic nature of its reception. WH Auden wrote to Jones to tell him 'your work makes me feel very small and madly jealous' In his introduction, TS Eliot hailed In Parenthesis as “a work of genius”. Graham Greene placed it “among the great poems of the century”. WH Auden claimed “it does for the British and Germans what Homer did for the Greeks and Trojans”; he wrote to Jones to tell him “your work makes me feel very small and madly jealous”. On entering a party and seeing Jones sitting in the corner, WB Yeats bowed low to “salute the author of In Parenthesis”.Perhaps the most considered response came from Herbert Read, an ex‑solider himself, whose reviews of In Parenthesis are shot through not just with admiration, but also a sense of gratitude. “For the first time,” he wrote, “all the realistic sensory experiences of infantrymen have been woven into a pattern which, while retaining all the authentic realism of the event, has the heroic ring which we associate with the old chansons de geste … a book which we can accept as a true record of our suffering and as a work of art in the romantic tradition of Malory and the Mabinogion.”Read’s acknowledgment of In Parenthesis’s ability to simultaneously contain the contemporary and the ancient, the literary and the demotic, the realistic and the mythic, and of the “pattern” underpinning its whole, are key to understanding the power of Jones’s achievement. Fuelled by direct experience, but highly composed, with a frame of reference that reaches across centuries, In Parenthesis works at the level of poetry, yet isn’t verse, nor, I’d argue, a poem. Multiple narrative possibilities are deployed throughout, fragmented lyricism giving way to sections of prose, dialogue, stream of consciousness, slang and song. The flow between these modes and registers never feels anything less than organic, and yet the work is built upon a parenthetical structure of mathematical precision; a subterranean architecture of image, pace and movement that provides a governing background rhythm to the multiple transitions of voice, perspective and cadence.From a young age, Jones was fascinated by his father’s Welsh heritage, Welsh myths and Arthurian legend. For an artist and writer of such inclination, the battalion Jones served in was particularly fertile. The ranks of the 15th Royal Welch Fusiliers, also known as the 1st London Welsh, were predominately filled with Londoners and men from South Wales. Jones’s comrades were, he said, “an essential ingredient to my theme. Nothing could be more representative. These came from London. Those from Wales. Together they bore in their bodies the genuine tradition of the Island of Britain, from Bendigeid Vran to Jingle to Marie Lloyd … both speak in parables, the wit of both is quick, both are natural poets.”As a fellow private, Jones was immersed in the manual labour, hard living and language of these infantryman. However much his writing might travel across centuries, a seam of authenticity, of action and accent, keeps us rooted in the realities of trench life. His characters are intentionally flat, allowing his writing to move with egalitarian ease between acute sensory detail of the war and references to Welsh poetry and Arthurian legend. His protagonist, Ball, both is and is not David Jones. The pronouns “you” and “he” become protean; at certain moments they might refer to a character, the writer or even the reader.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   WNO perform In Parenthesis. Photograph: John Snelling/Getty ImagesThis technique demands alert reading, but in turn creates an invigorating double-lensed perspective, a kind of immersed detachment. The overall effect is to build an unflinchingly objective register of presentation. “This,” In Parenthesis says to us, “is what it was like at the time”, while also saying, “this is what it was like within time”.The result is a book grown from the first world war, but which also grows beyond it. When, in part seven, Ball’s company attack the wood, and we watch the characters we’ve come to know die or be maimed, we don’t so much feel for these individual men, as for all mankind. Similarly, the matriarch-turned-reaper Jones unleashes to represent the carnage he witnessed at Mametz in 1916 is entirely of the Somme, and yet also still at large in the mechanised conflicts of the world today:But sweet sister death has gone debauched today and stalks on this high ground with strumpet confidence, makes no coy veiling of her appetite but leers from you to me with all her parts discovered.By one and one the line gaps, where her fancy will – howsoever they may howl for their virginity.Although In Parenthesis was inspired by Jones’s experience of the first world war, its form, concerns and techniques have their genesis in what he did in the years following it. Most significant, perhaps, was his continuing education as an artist among the Catholic artisan communities founded by the sculptor Eric Gill at Ditchling, Sussex, and Capel‑y-Ffin in the Black Mountains of Wales. As Jones wrote to his friend Harman Grisewood in 1938, “my equipment is that of a painter, not a writer,’ and this is perhaps where the brilliance of the book’s composition lies: in being “a shape in words”, modelled on a visual rather than literary aesthetic. Not since William Blake had there been such a vital dialogue between the artist and the writer in the work of a single person.Ditchling brought Jones into close contact with a deeply felt culture of “making” and the philosophy of Jacques Maritain, both of which contributed to the development of his respect for the lovingly crafted object, and man as the only “gratuitous maker”. It was also at the chapel in Ditchling that Jones participated in the daily recitation of the Divine Office. Pieced together from many sources, ancient and modern, sacred and everyday, and drawing on multiple forms of expression from verse and song to invocation and refrain, the liturgy would offer Jones a spiritually potent stylistic template for In Parenthesis.When Gill established a new community at Capel-y-Ffin, Jones followed him. It was here among “the strong hill-rhythms” that his previous reading on Welsh history and myth was lent an authenticity of experience, which in turn underpinned so much of the mythic quality of In Parenthesis. It was also while at Capel that Jones developed the distinctive style of his later watercolours, which so strongly prefigure his writing; fluid, semitransparent and multilayered paintings, their surfaces fractured or bent by multiple or pivoting views.This, then, was the nature of Jones’s training ground for In Parenthesis; the carving tool, the paintbrush and the canvas, not the pen or the typewriter. “I had views as to what a painting ought to be,” he writes when describing his initial approach to In Parenthesis:A “thing” having abstract qualities by which it coheres and without which it can be said not to exist. Further that it “shows forth” something, is representational. If this was true of one art I supposed it to be true of another. I knew how the inter-stresses of the “formal” and the “contential” created so precarious a balance in the case of drawing or painting … I had yet to discover in what manner these nice problems of “form” and “content” occur in the making of a writing.Grief Is the Thing with Feathers by Max Porter review – words take flight That discovery would astonish the first readers of In Parenthesis, but since its rapturous reception, the book hasn’t fared well in finding a purchase in the canon. In the 70 years since its publication it has been too rarely read, or even known, though it has maintained an influence on writers and poets working in its wake. Geoffrey Hill and Seamus Heaney have both acknowledged its importance to their writing. More recently Simon Armitage declared it “a greater poem than The Waste Land” and Max Porter cited it as a touchstone for his own hybrid work, Grief Is the Thing With Feathers.Jones has been something of a presiding spirit for me since I first read In Parenthesis. He appears in my first novel Resistance, as a war-damaged healing artist, and then again as a character in my play Mametz. More significantly perhaps, his shaping and imaginative re-presenting of real events would become a vital beacon for me when writing my verse drama Pink Mist, in which I tried to lyrically embody the lives and language of soldiers wounded in the conflict in Afghanistan.In his later years, Jones was fond of reminding people that the ancient Welsh poets called themselves “carpenters of song”, and above all it is, I think, Jones the carpenter, the shaper of words, who continues to inspire writers today. The artist illuminated by the potential of his craft, who, through putting that craft in to practice, in turn, illuminates.The Greatest Poem of World War One: David Jones’s ‘In Parenthesis’ on BBC Two Wales on 9 July and BBC 4 on 11 July. The Welsh National Opera is touring In Parenthesis until 1 July. wno.org.uk.