Last year I fell in love with a fantastic trilogy by Jenn Bennett. I had read Night Owls by her earlier in the summer and this resulted in my finding her previous series.Set during the prohibition era in the US, we are introduced to Winter Magnusson, a bootlegger, and his story. This story is entwined with that of Aida Palmer, who is a spirit medium (she can summon and expel spirits, which leads to her initial encounter with Winter, who is being haunted). This first novel of the series I absolutely enjoyed; fast-paced, romantic and passionate, I fell in love with Winter and Aida as characters - in all honesty they may be my OTP for life. Their relationship we see forms from a friendship, a casual relationship, before becoming an intense and all-consuming romance which I loved. Plus, with the added dimension of the paranormal and supernatural, this intrigued me to great extents, making it such an enjoyable novel to read which I lost myself in on the bus home and made me miss my stop completely! The second novel in this series goes on to follow Winter’s younger brother, Lowe Magnusson, who is an archaeologist, and his discovery of a mysterious amulet which holds unknown properties. This leads us to the introduction of Hadley, who works for her father who is himself after the artifact which Lowe has discovered and which leads the two into some trouble. Despite this novel not centring around Winter or Aida, the characters who made me fall in love with the series in the first place, we still have very brief encounters with them. I enjoyed this novel immensely; although not as good as Bitter Spirits in my opinion, it was still brilliant all the same. Especially since the way that Hadley and Lowe contrast so much against what we have seen in Aida and Winter is rather refreshing and humorous.  Finally, the last novel in the series, which I adore as we see so much more of Winter and Aida again. This novel surrounds the youngest Magnusson, Astrid, Winter and Lowe’s little sister. Now once again there is of course a romantic pairing and for Astrid this is Bo, her brother’s trusted assistant in his bootlegging business and of course completely off limits. What I enjoyed in this concluding novel is the fact that Astrid and Bo have many more problems which are keeping them apart, which Lowe and Hadley and Aida and Winter did not encounter in their respective relationships (except their paranormal problems), but also the difference in their race prohibits any sort of relationship between the too. This trilogy is brilliant, funny, passionate, intense and of course kept me gripped onto the stories long since I had left off reading. If you are looking for something which is different and is able to stand out in your mind and heart for a long time, with a slight paranormal twist, I highly advise this series.Want to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!