Around the time of the 2008 presidential elections, a popular theory took hold that movies and TV shows had paved the way for a black president: Dennis Haysbert in 24, Chris Rock in Head of State, Morgan Freeman … well, just Morgan Freeman. Barack Obama would never have swept to victory if the nation hadn’t been conditioned by these groundbreaking portrayals, it was implied. But has pop culture been laying the ground for the next occupant of the White House? In this most unexpected of election years, the next president is likely to be different in some form: the first woman/Latino/billionaire/religious maniac – and whoever it turns out to be, you can bet the entertainment industry will take the credit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Rock in Head of State. Photograph: Dreamworks/Everett/RexLet’s start with Hillary Clinton. There is a rather shaky history of fictional female presidents: Geena Davis in Commander in Chief, Cherry Jones in 24, er, Joan Rivers in Les Patterson Saves the World. Aside from the insultingly vague characteristic of “being a woman”, none of them are a particularly good fit for Clinton. With Commander in Chief, it actually worked the other way around: Clinton’s anticipated run for the White House inspired the ABC series. Unfortunately, Davis doesn’t win the election in her own right. She is a tokenistic vice-president, who gets the top job when the (male) president dies of a stroke – which suggests she more paved the way for Sarah Palin. It is a similar story with Julia-Louis Dreyfus in Veep: she only assumes the presidency when her (male) predecessor steps down. Not that Clinton would willingly encourage comparisons with Dreyfus’s character, who is neurotic, petty, barely competent and lovably fallible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Julia Louis-Dreyfus in Veep. Photograph: Patrick Harbron/APCherry Jones’s President Taylor from 24 is more the type of precursor Clinton would want: dignified, respected, wise and unsullied by decades of political mudslinging. Jones even expressed the hope that her character would prepare the US for a female president the same way Haysbert had for a black one. But then she went and spoiled it all by ruling that her President Taylor had “nothing to do with Hillary”, describing her as a combination of Eleanor Roosevelt, Golda Meir and John Wayne (which actually kind of does sound like Clinton).In recent years, rather than paving Clinton’s way, Hollywood has seemed bent on digging her grave. Every teen-friendly dystopia worth its franchise seems to ruled by a merciless-but-stylish female despot: Kate Winslet in Divergent, Jodie Foster in Elysium and, in particular, Julianne Moore’s Alma Coin, president-in-waiting in The Hunger Games saga, who shows her true colours once she gets near the throne (it turns out she was more interested in revenge all along).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Stewart in Mr Smith Goes to Washington. Photograph: AlamyClinton’s Democratic rival, Bernie Sanders, has it relatively easy. He is clearly drawing on the old “political outsider who’s gonna shake up the White House” narrative – a path so well paved in the movies it is now a six-lane motorway. It is compulsory to mention Frank Capra’s national chestnut Mr Smith Goes to Washington in this context, and Sanders has a better claim to Mr Smith status than most. He is not just a genuine outsider but also, like James Stewart’s Jefferson Smith, a veteran of the filibuster. The Oscar clip in the future Sanders biopic will undoubtedly be his eight-and-a-half-hour turn at the stand in 2010, where he passionately laid into Obama’s tax deal, China, jobs, wealth and whatever else he could think of. (The movie version will cover this in a two-minute montage, with lots of cutaways to clocks.) The only problem with the analogy is that Sanders looks more like Stewart’s grandpa.  Larry David as Bernie Sanders. Photograph: NBCU Photo Bank via Getty ImagesEven worse news for Sanders is that a more up-to-date mental image has emerged. Larry David’s caricatures of the Vermont senator on Saturday Night Live have been so spot-on (“I don’t have a Super Pac; I don’t even have a backpack!”), they threaten to overwrite the real Sanders in the public consciousness, just as Tina Fey did with Palin. David’s hybrid sketch Bern Your Enthusiasm, in particular, could leave voters confused as to whether it was the sitcom grouch or the real Sanders who refused to shake a supporter’s hand because they had just coughed into it. Or whether or not the real Sanders would fix a voter’s dislocated shoulder if called upon. Well, would he? Fox News panels have debated more trivial matters.  Biff in Back to the Future. Photograph: Allstar/UniversalWhen it comes to the Republicans, things get a little trickier, if only because the default setting for “US president” has been a white, middle-aged, conservative-minded male for most of the history of popular entertainment. There is also the fact that one candidate’s bombastic persona has tended to suck up all the media oxygen, on screen and off. Also-rans such as Jim Gilmore and John Kasich would probably pay good money to have Johnny Depp portray them in a satirical biopic for Funny or Die. No matter how insulting the comedy, any publicity would be good publicity at this stage. But no, it has to be Donald Trump. It has also been also revealed that Trump inspired the character Biff Tannen in Back to the Future, the self-aggrandising bully who acquires obscene wealth not entirely by his own merit, and builds a huge casino. Again, not a flattering portrayal, but one that has been embedded in the popular consciousness for decades, like a product placement. It makes you wonder if Trump didn’t go back in time and write himself into the screenplay.  The Lego Movie cast, including Lord Business. Photograph: Allstar/Warner Bros/Sportsphoto LtdBut there are more ominous Trump harbingers, too. Witness the antagonist of The Lego Movie, President Business, AKA Lord Business. He has far-reaching corporate power, lives in a giant skyscraper and sports ridiculous hair. And he cannot abide the collective-minded, free-thinking resistance to his totalitarian regime (led by Morgan Freeman). They are not explicitly labelled as “socialists”, but that is basically they what are. There are no Lego Muslims in the movie; they have already been deported, brick by brick.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Idiocracy’s president Dwayne Elizondo Mountain Dew Herbert Camacho. Photograph: AlamyBut one movie, above all others, issued a warning about not only Trump’s ascendancy but the direction of US politics in general: Mike Judge’s 2006 satire Idiocracy. It is set 500 years in the future, when the global IQ has plummeted and politics is basically an offshoot of wrestling. Physically, Idiocracy’s president Dwayne Elizondo Mountain Dew Herbert Camacho couldn’t be more different to Trump: he is a large, muscular black man with long, flowing hair (presumably his own). But when it comes to degraded political rhetoric, they are reading off the same Autocue. Camacho begins his State of the Union address with the words: “Shit. I know shit’s bad right now …” He silences his critics by firing a machine gun into the air. He claims he is able not only to heal the economy but also to “cure acne and car sickness as well”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gob in Arrested Development. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Everett/Rex FeaturesWhat recognition the other Republican candidates can claim is unlikely to help their poll ratings. Jeb Bush’s trail to the White House has already been blazed by his father and big brother, so he hardly needs a boost from pop culture – which is just as well, considering his grasp of it. When asked to name his favourite superhero last year, Bush replied: “I like watching the movies. I wish I owned Marvel, as someone that believes in capitalism.” He then dug himself deeper by describing a poster of Supergirl he’d seen in the gym as “pretty hot”.It is fair to assume, therefore, that Bush has never seen Arrested Development. If he has, the cult sitcom’s troubled dynastic family might have rung a bell. Particularly the hapless George Oscar Bluth, AKA Gob, whose name is formed out of his initials (not unlike a certain John Ellis Bush), who is looked upon with scorn by his father, George, who is jealous of his more successful brother, whose family had dodgy dealings in Iraq and who is constantly striving to live up to the family name but uses it to get ahead wherever possible. But Jeb Bush isn’t a crap magician, so Gob Bluth can’t possibly be based on him.  Kurt Russell in Escape from LA. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/ParamountThat just leaves Ted Cruz – a figure whose precedents are more likely to be found in the book of Revelation than the modern mediascape. Dig a little deeper, though, and Hollywood did issue a pre-emptive vision of a Cruz presidency, in the form of John Carpenter’s 1996 sequel Escape from LA, set in the futuristic year of 2013. The president is a rightwing religious fanatic. He declares himself president for life. He moves the capital to the deep south. He outlaws alcohol, smoking, meat, bad language and premarital sex. And he deports those unfit to live in his new “Moral America” to Los Angeles, which is now a giant prison island – somewhere between Blade Runner and Guantánamo. That is not to suggest that Cruz would coerce Kurt Russell into rescuing his wayward daughter by infecting him with a deadly virus, then try to kill her anyway. But the movie’s repressive theocracy looks like the sort of thing the ultra-conservative Cruz could get behind. Not so much “yes we can” as “no you can’t”. It is also a scenario in which Hollywood’s home town is cut off from the rest of the country, denying all those inconvenient movie-type people any undue influence over the electoral process. On second thoughts, that is something all of this year’s presidential candidates could get behind.