In the summer of 1812, Goethe and Beethoven were walking arm in arm through the streets of the Bohemian spa resort of Teplitz when their path was blocked by a gaggle of oncoming dukes and duchesses. “They must make way for us, not the other way around,” composer told poet. But Goethe, 21 years his senior and a seasoned courtier, removed his hat, stepped aside and bowed. “I have waited for you,” said Beethoven when Goethe finally caught up, “because I respect you and I admire your work, but you have shown too much esteem to those people.” For Beethoven, the only true royalty were artists. The incident was described 20 years later by the writer Bettina von Arnim, a friend of both. Her account inspired Carl Rohling’s 1887 painting The Incident at Teplitz. On the left is Goethe, hand on heart, bowing deeply. In the foreground is Beethoven, barrelling towards us grumpily. The image dramatises various positions: age hobbled by compromise; youth fearlessly challenging old values; the artist as proto-hipster at odds with society and civility.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beethoven, la joue appuyée sur une main, byAntoine Bourdelle. Photograph: Musée Bourdelle / Roger-ViolletOnly one problem: it probably didn’t happen, certainly not as Von Arnim described it. It’s one of several anecdotes about Beethoven that are simultaneously celebrated and debunked in a scintillating exhibition in Paris called Ludwig Van: Le Mythe Beethoven. It’s a story that typifies how, as far as Beethoven and other great artists are concerned, myth trumps reality. The former serves our needs, the latter is what scholars put in dusty old books.As Beethoven mutated from man to myth, his deafness – a tragedy for him, no doubt – became a Kiplingesque just-so story. Victor Hugo, the exhibition tells us, considered Beethoven’s hearing loss a boon to the composer and certainly to us: it freed him to write music unencumbered by tradition. For the sculptor Antoine Bourdelle, whose bronze Baudelairean Beethoven is among a room of busts of the composer, deafness enabled him to perceive the harmonies of heaven, perhaps even to hear God. In an installation commissioned for the exhibition, Samuel Aden plays with this idea of clairvoyant composer by means of a peep show featuring shimmering moonlight effects and a bone-conduction hearing aid that supplies to visitors a non-auditory version of the Moonlight Sonata. It’s an experiment in another kind of hearing, echoing what Beethoven had to resort to, and it exposes the myth of the composer having a hotline to heaven.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chuck Berry’s Roll Over Beethoven, 1956. Photograph: Chuck Berry, BackBiter DRMyth also makes for a better story. The truth? Let others worry about that for us. Did Mozart, when asked to play the keyboard à la Salieri, conclude his parody with a fart? Sure, why not? Was Salieri driven into such existentially unholy rage that God made a vulgar fop into a musical genius whose music would resound eternally while his own costively achieved oeuvre would become fast obsolete, that he killed his revival? Yeah, whatever. Those drawn to the National Theatre’s current revival of Peter Shaffer’s play don’t want the truth. Yes, historian Alex von Tunzelmann is no doubt right to give the film D plus for historical accuracy and to argue that “the fact that the entire premise of this film – that Salieri loathed Mozart and plotted his demise – is probably not true” But still. Accuracy? Yawn. I’m so long accustomed to Tom Hulce’s interpretation of Mozart in Milos Forman’s adaptation of Peter Schaffer’s play Amadeus as vulgarian with irritating laugh that the truth about what Mozart looked like comes as a shock. In Johann Georg Edlinger’s painting, sometimes considered to depict the composer not long before his death in 1790, Mozart looks – to my eyes – infinitely more sophisticated and cultured than the Schaffer-Hulce version. He’s a man of the world, meeting our gaze with intelligent eyes, a genial genius rather than profane petomane. But my supposed truth about Mozart turns out to be another projection, another myth masquerading as documentary fact. Apparently, hardly any scholars believe that Edlinger’s portrait actually depicted the composer. The Mozart I want to exist – sophisticated, worldly, the eternal anti-Hulse – did not exist either, or at least there are no such versions of him in the 14 depictions of the composer made during his life. Perhaps the truth is that Mozart really was the libidinous, scatological yob of Amadeus. After all, his canon for six voices in B flat is Leck mich im Arsch (K231), translating literally as “Lick me in the arse”. When great dead artists – particularly great dead composers – are concerned, we are lost if we seek to know the truth about what they were like or looked like.  Or are we? Consider Beethoven.Imagine, whispered my audio guide as I walked towards a vitrine in room two, having your face smothered with plaster, only able to breathe through two straws inserted into your nostrils. This is what Viennese sculptor Franz Klein did to Beethoven in 1812. The first attempt failed since Beethoven, suffocating, pulled the plaster from his face. The next was successful, yet the resulting life mask – depicting the composer with eyes closed – came to be seen as what it was not: his death mask. Again myth trumps, and distorts, reality. Beethoven wasn’t dead when Klein’s plaster hardened over his lightly oiled faced. The 42-year-old was at the height of his powers and had 15 more years to live. Which is why it is so heartening to see, in this vitrine containing the mask, the full context explained. That’s not to say the exhibition seeks to present the truth of Beethoven shorn of myth: rather, it draws attention to what we have done to him since his death: made him immortal, transformed bits of him into holy relics (a lock of his hair is exhibited in the show), made his house a place of pilgrimage, converted his life into symbolic anecdotes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Terry Adkins’s Synapse (from the Black Beethoven series), 2004. Photograph: Courtesy of the Estate of Terry Adkins and Salon 94, New YorkAfter his death in 1827, Beethoven became, as the curators nicely put it, l’omnipresent absent. The exhibition opens with a cacophony of Beethovens: a video mash-up of concert performances, Chuck Berry duckwalking through Roll Over Beethoven, the Fab Four in Help! singing Ode to Joy in a pub cellar to tame a tiger (don’t ask). Was he a proto-Nazi, a Leninist avant la lettre, the humane voice of peace? All of these things and none, the show suggests. Was he upholder of European civilisation or a man of African ancestry whose genealogy has been suppressed for racist purposes? Both, no doubt, but the latter possibility is poignantly explored in a video by Terry Adkins: before your eyes, dead white male mutates into living black man with braided locks.One fascinating room traces how the composer became a political tool. “Will Beethoven stop Hitler?” asks The Etude music magazine in 1941. It hangs on the wall next to a screen showing the opening ceremony of Hitler’s 1936 Berlin Olympics to the soundtrack of Ode to Joy. Nearby, Beethoven is co-opted by Lenin. In Yuri Vyshinsky’s 1964 film Appassionata, the Bolshevik revolutionary is listening to a pianist perform the titular sonata in his apartment as snow falls outside. Lenin muses on the movement of the sonata from capitalist hell to communist nirvana. “The future,” he says, “is Beethoven.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Will Beethoven stop Hitler ? The Etude, September 1941. Photograph: Biblioteca Beethoveniana – Collezione Carrino, 2016Like much of the art in this show, the film clip is unintentionally hilarious. This is an exhibition that teems with fascinating ideas, wonderful music, fascinating commissions – and terrible art. Friedrich Geselschap’s painting of the birth of Beethoven, for instance, mythically puts little Ludwig in a crib, flanked by, among others, a Grecian goddesss and the Virgin Mary who is presenting the little chap with a crown of thorns – this last is a symbolic reminder, according to the audio guide, of the suffering to come. Roll over Beethoven? No: roll over Jesus. There’s a new wunderkind in town.Indeed, one aspect of Beethoven the show explores is composer as Christ-like healer. A clip from Abel Gance’s 1936 biopic has a mother soothed over the death of her child by hearing the Pathétique sonata, while Lionello Balestrieri’s 1900 painting Beethoven depicts a room of suffering people – the recently bereaved? Heartbroken refugees? – all benefiting from the balm of Beethoven, who is depicted on the right of the canvas playing violin bathed in sacred light.True, much of the art here provokes reactions akin to what Oscar Wilde said of the death of Little Nell: it would take a heart of stone not to laugh. But, as one wanders the show in headphones, there’s always the music to counter the giggles. But hold on. Was Lenin right? Was Beethoven writing musical communist manifesto? Unwittingly – if at all. He was also writing music that can be deployed as anti-communist manifesto. To clinch that point, there’s footage of Leonard Bernstein conducting Ode to Joy in celebration at the recent fall of the Berlin wall. And then there’s Malcolm McDowell’s Alex in Kubrick’s 1972 film A Clockwork Orange, eyelids pinned open so he can’t look away from a screen of unspeakable images. The soundtrack ? “A bit of the old Ludwig van,” as Alex puts it elsewhere in the film. Beethoven has been reconfigured not so much as communist visionary as the man who unwittingly wrote a soundtrack to torture.What was it about Beethoven’s music that lent itself – lends itself – to being politically repurposed? “Profoundly human, the energy of Beethoven’s music liberates not just an aesthetic emotion but also a political conscience,” writes one of the curators. Does it? Why not Wagner, Bach, Mozart? Why not Miles Davis, Ravi Shankar, Public Enemy, Skepta? There is, the curators suggest, something special about a bit of the old Ludwig van: “Beethoven’s legacy in itself also participates in the same desire to make a connection between the authority of a remarkable figure and the innovations of the present day, but with one notable difference: his human dimension and even, in the noble sense of the term, his popular vision, both manage to connect with individual and collective aspirations.” But the corollary of this is that his music can connect to any aspiration. Beethoven has become, in the phrase Umberto Eco coined, an open text, endlessly interpretable, endlessly significant. This exhibition deconstructs the Beethoven myth and then puts it back together again In one room there’s an interactive map of the world through which one can scroll to find monuments to the composer. Ever since Ernst Julius Hähnel’s Bonn monument to Beethoven in 1845, the world has seen a veritable statumania that has spread his aura around the world. There are Beethoven monuments and statues in Germany, Austria, even Mexico – and more recently Naruto, Japan, and Qingdao, China, though not one in Britain. The map may reveal the UK’s native philistinism and insularity but it may also show something else: judging by how grisly most existing monuments to Beethoven are, the absence of the omnipresent in sculptural form this side of the Channel makes us fortunate indeed.The French are good at this sort of show, exploring the life and afterlife of a dead genius. Like the Pompidou Centre’s show devoted to Roland Barthes (which opened with by a pristine black 1957 Citroën 19 in all the semiotic pomp conferred on it in Barthes’ essay), this is a vast multi-media celebration. But while that was hagiographic, this is more critical: the Barthes show made critic into icon; le Mythe Beethoven deconstructs the myth and then puts it back together again. In the Salle Pierre Boulez upstairs, there has been a swaggering series of allied concerts, including a fabulous concert performance of Fidelio.If only this show would come to Britain. Yes, the Victoria and Albert Museum has staged two lavish shows about mythic pop musicians recently, one about David Bowie and the current one about Pink Floyd. And yes, the British Museum and Library have had similarly good multimedia exhibitions devoted to Shakespeare. But the great icons of classical music seem beyond our curators’ imaginations.In the exhibition’s final room, a few of us had our own silent disco through our audio guides. Perhaps the woman dancing around John Baldessari’s sculpture of Beethoven’s oversized ear with matching ear trumpet was listening to Pierre Henry’s cheeky imagining of Beethoven’s 10th. I was savouring Daft Punk’s Technologic Sonata, a mashup of techno and Beethoven you can watch on YouTube, and read this comment: “No doubt somebody is spinning in their grave.”No doubt someone is. But perhaps that someone is not Beethoven. He might well have dug Daft Punk. Ever since he died and became posterity’s plaything, it has been hard to know, or even imagine, what Beethoven would really think about anything. Ludwig Van: Le Mythe Beethoven is at the Philharmonie de Paris until 29 January.