This is my last column of the year, and I want to reflect on one of the more depressing sentiments I’ve heard friends express since election day: that they can’t wait for the next four years to be over.But quadrennial presidential cycles are a terrible frame to mark the timing of our lives. Hoping for time to pass swiftly makes our lives seem small and unworthy. We can’t let four-year chunks of time determine our emotions and gloss over the gift of our very own lives, as if presidential politics are more important. So please remember: you are important, every day, much more so than any of the grifters headed to the White House.I was similarly dismayed throughout the 2016 campaign to hear friends say that they couldn’t wait for the election to be over. What did they miss while hoping for life to be over more quickly?Being black and gay in the US has taught me that embracing and celebrating my full humanity is neither contingent upon presidential administrations nor on a particular sense of safety. I’ve buried too many loved ones – and learned how important it is to be with them in that process despite not being able to “do anything” – that I don’t want my days to pass quickly, even the difficult ones.And I don’t want to wait for four years to feel good about living again, any more than I want any of you to miss being present for all the hugs, tears and orgasms, the first kisses and last words, the shade or the laughter that make up the days of our lives.What you think is important. What and who you read is important. Poetry is important. Science is important. Don’t let anyone tell you that thoughts, daydreaming and critical theorizing aren’t important in days like these. The scientific witch-hunts around climate change are as dangerous for our environmental survival now as the attacks on queer art were to our cultural survival when Aids first hit. As we face a highly uneducated, anti-education presidential cabinet, we need our critical minds and creative spirits going more than ever. We need this to fight but also just because it’s fun to think about the moon, iambic pentameter or the sea.Human interactions you have that can’t be sold, or economically exchanged, or monetized by an app are important.Leisure, music and dancing are as important as ever. It’s been said that Prince and David Bowie left us maps for moving forward. Surely getting our groove on, shakin’ that ass and reaching up to the starman waiting in the sky to meet us are steps on that journey.Your neighbors are important - the people with whom you live in closest proximity, the people you pray or play with, the ones you may be called upon to defend from Trump or Brexit in a sanctuary city.Your health is important. Your sexual and reproductive health are important. Your mental health is important. That you laugh, and smile and give comfort to your lover(s), and experience kisses and hugs and massages and dancing and joy: these, too, are political acts of paramount importance. Access to abortion and a repeal of sodomy laws, no matter how embattled they may become, are about more than legality, after all; they are about your right to pursue the pleasure of your and other bodies joyfully and without shame. I am not saying that the wellbeing of the things that are important to you are not interconnected with presidential politics. Nor am I advocating that we ignore who is coming to power in just a few weeks. We need to be ready for the fight of our lives, and self-care alone is not an effective remedy for what is headed our way. A full-on resistance to an accelerated crisis of autocracy and xenophobia is necessary. Many of us will be in harm’s way.But along the way we must not forget: you are important. Despite the hell it wrought, 2016 was still the most extraordinary year of my life – not due to a quaint idea of happiness, but because of experiencing growth, of being present to pain, of learning the joy of community with other queer people of color, of remembering my sister. My life is not going to be dictated simply by celebrities or politicians (or a president-elect who embodies the worst traits of both). Nor should yours, even as he comes at us.Here’s to 2017, friends. Even as we fight and resist, may you remember how important you are.