In my granddaughter’s Phoenix comic, there is a story with a recurring feature called The Well Of Infinite Gravy. The invisible well is a time tunnel that does double service as a brain scrambler. You fall into it now and come out again some time ago, with your brains on backwards. Or at any rate I do.This week, I had a bad Infinite Gravy experience when I not only forgot a hospital appointment – something I take pride in not doing – but I spent several evenings compulsively reliving my years as a TV critic. The infinite gravy twist was that I found myself making notes about commercials that get their plots and characters from old movies or TV shows.Sometimes the actor in the ad was in the original thing, too. John Cleese is in an advert where he attacks his car with the branch of a tree, just as he so brilliantly did in Fawlty Towers. But the ad version is not brilliant: Cleese is supposed to be attacking his own car deliberately, not another car by mistake; and the car he attacks by mistake has two policemen sitting in it. How could he not have noticed?There is a really sad advert in which an actress imitates Meg Ryan’s fake orgasm in When Harry Met Sally – ie, she’s imitating a fake. This time, I didn’t know who the actress was, so I felt free to hate her, along with the director and, above all, the team of advertising agency “creatives” who thought this was a good idea. I forget what product it sells, and I have seen it about 100 times. Did you hear that, creatives? I have seen your dumb creation over and over, and I still don’t remember what product you’re selling. So, next time, try stealing another idea.Clive James: ‘My daydream of being Roger Federer’ More enjoyably, the actual Harvey Keitel is doing a whole series of ads based on those scenes in Pulp Fiction where he plays the “cleaner”. In the movie he got rid of dead bodies, and in the ads he promises to get rid of something else – I forget what. But the dialogue is roughly the same and, anyway, we all love Keitel’s fallback persona as an angry bullfrog with a bad throat.He can act, though. In between making notes on these ads, I saw Copland, an underpraised movie in which Keitel and Ray Liotta compete for the title of top psycho in a colony of bent cops, while Sylvester Stallone is almost better than both of them put together. Sly is a shy sheriff who would rather stay tranquil than blow the whistle on the heavies, but finally he has to. He is what he is. He does what he does. He’s in the Well of Infinite Gravy.