“It’s like you’re Jason Bourne, only older and not so buff!” shrieks Jeannie as we sit comparing notes and news on our loss. She’s a friend, met through Way (Widowed & Young) whose partner died at a similar time to Helen and we’ve swapped stories in person and online for months.Her mocking response to my offloading on to her would seem disrespectful from anyone other than a fellow traveller. However, Jeannie’s back story is even harder than mine: her husband’s death was sudden and self-inflicted. So we laugh, comrades in adversity sharing memories.We’d been talking about grief taboos and, of course, the subject of sex engorges the laughter of our conversation. “So you, a middle-aged single man has sex with a single woman of similar age; what’s the big deal? Bloody well done, you!” she raises her glass, downing her wine.I don’t agree: “Try adding the word ‘widowed’ before ‘man’ and ‘within a year of his wife dying’ to the end of the sentence and you invite the jury in.”Jeannie shrugs and pushes it back at me: “And has their verdict been a problem?”Actually, people have been really supportive. Yes, my mate Pete and cousin Holly feign surprise that any woman would want to shag me, but they are cheerleaders for Lucy plugging the hole in my wellbeing.I’ve called it wrong yet again. The whole sex-in-bereavement gig seems less a taboo than I’d imagined. It has not really caused me any angst – even the accusation of Lucy being a one-night stand. It wasn’t. We’ve common history, more than 90 years between us and have met again for more of the same before agreeing that our life-stages and lifestyles are too different for it to go anywhere.Having put this to bed, as it were, Jeannie and I moved on to what has become for me a personal taboo – the fact that despite being married to Helen for 19 years and living together on top of that, I have no real memory of it.Of course, I remember Helen, in fact instinctively do so more as she was before fucking cancer, which is fabulous. But the whole nature of domestic cohabitation, joint decision-making, constructive compromises, even sharing a bed every night and waking every morning with her, feels vague and almost absent.When I say this to anyone, even my brilliant counsellor, Heidi, they go wide-eyed in shock. Jeannie’s eyes opened wide also in what I assumed was the same reaction but wasn’t. “Adam, that’s exactly how I feel! Dave and I were together for years, but now when I imagine living with him, there’s no sense of ever having done so.” Despite being married to Helen for 19 years and living together on top of that, I have no real memory of it Snap! This care and connectivity is what Way is about.Prodded by Heidi, I’ve unpacked my grief amnesia: “It’s like suddenly my memory banks have been partially erased and I need to rebuild in a way that will have me cope with the present and future.” Jeannie’s film analogy is not as mad as I sound saying all this. It is Bourne-like! As if I’d suddenly woken up with the kids, family, friends, a home, a job and am looking for clues about what I feel about them, who I am now and how to do the best I can alone in making the right calls to bring up Millie and Matt, manage relationships, work, love, sex, the future. Everything – a lens on loss.Like Bourne sitting in the cafe not knowing why he noticed registrations on cars in the parking lot or why he can speak many languages, I find myself instinctively judging everything that crosses my path as of value to my new life or not and then acting on this new input. This extends to people, work, possessions, and even, it seems, my own memories, in which I’ve left wiped stuff that doesn’t help me deal with the present. Looking back, it’s part of the reason why I changed so much in the months since Helen died, needing as I did new content to replace that lost.The comfort is that that my love of Helen is sharper than ever. We are conjoined closer by the remaining uncluttered memories of the past even as we are separated by the future. The Love Supremacy perhaps …Adam Golightly is a pseudonym@MrAdamGolightly