The National Farmers’ Union (NFU) is launching its first shoppers’ sourcing guide to help consumers compare rival supermarkets’ policies when they want to buy British food. Just two weeks after it criticised Tesco for announcing a series of farm brands to sell products, based on British-sounding, but fictitious names, the NFU is publishing up-to-date information on supermarkets’ sourcing policies on own-brand products. It aims to provide a guide to food categories such as beef and lamb, fruit and vegetables, dairy, poultry and eggs. The ideal ranking will be a listing of 100% British when in season. Tesco's fictional farms: a marketing strategy past its sell-by date? Retailers who have failed to provide information about sourcing or origin – or been vague about it – will have their entries listed with a space or a series of question marks. Tesco, the UK’s largest retailer, was accused by the NFU and the Soil Association in March of misleading shoppers when it introduced made-up names – Woodside, Willow and Boswell farms – on labelling for pork, chicken and beef, alongside Nightingale and Redmere on salad and vegetable items, Rosedene on berries, apples and pears, and Suntrail Farms on a range of fruit imported from overseas.The NFU said transparency and honesty was key to helping shoppers wade through the maze of different policies, labelling and even misleading advertisements. In the run-up to Easter, the UK’s major supermarkets were criticised for the amount of imported lamb – chilled and frozen from New Zealand – on their shelves, rather than early season British lamb. “We want to promote British food to the general public and support shoppers who want to buy British food by helping them find it at different retailers,” said Ruth Mason, the NFU’s chief food chain adviser. “We had planned to do this before Tesco announced its new series of farm brands but that makes our exercise particularly pertinent and, we believe, invaluable for consumers.   Some of the controversial fictitious farm brands used by Tesco. Photograph: PR Company Handout“What is needed is transparency. The overriding message for consumers is to buy British food from your local supermarket and use this guide to be more savvy about retailer sourcing policies for own-brand products.” Tesco – which has subsequently met with NFU advisers to discuss the fictitious farm names – said the labels reflected a brand rather than actual farms and were designed to assure customers that the produce was from trusted suppliers who met its quality standards – whether in the UK or abroad.The NFU, which has 50,000 members representing 70% of farmland in England and Wales, plans to engage directly with consumers via social and print media. German discounter Aldi is the only supermarket to have signed up to the NFU’s Fruit and Veg Pledge, a scheme which aims to improve long-term relationships with British growers and suppliers. Mason said the union was in discussions with other retailers to persuade them to come on board and hoped to make a further announcement soon.  