Cambridge University students have voted that a bronze cockerel looted from Benin in 1897 is to be repatriated from Jesus hall, Cambridge University, to Nigeria.Ore Ogunbiyi, the JCSU racial equalities officer behind the campaign, wrote on her blog: “It’s quite nice to see Jesus setting a precedent and taking steps in the right direction to weed out the colonial legacies that exist in bits of the university ... but how exciting and momentous and revolutionary is this?”As well as looting art, the British killed thousands of people and set the city at the centre of the Benin empire, in modern-day Nigeria, on fire during the expedition in which the bronze cockerel was obtained. Nigeria has repeatedly asked for all Benin bronzes to be repatriated.The cockerel is the latest art piece to cause controversy, forcing difficult conversations over the suitability of art pieces in their current context. A plaque dedicated to the imperialist Cecil Rhodes was removed from Oriel college at Oxford University last December after a successful student campaign by the UK-based supporters of the South African Rhodes Must Fall campaign. Yet a campaign to remove a statue of the British imperialist from the college last month failed to find enough support.Rhodes is widely known to have helped found enforced racial segregation in South Africa. More than a third of Oxford University students – and nearly half of its black and minority ethnic (BAME) students – are in support of the statue being removed but are as yet to see their demands met.The UK’s Rhodes Must Fall campaign insists that its agenda isn’t solely based on the removal of the statue. The group want to see an expansion of welfare to BAME students and a reforming of the curriculum. A survey of nearly 1,000 students conducted by the university newspaper, Cherwell, found 77% agreed Oxford was not doing enough to “decolonise”.Last year, a statue of Rhodes was removed from the University of Cape Town in South Africa after a month of protests. Supporters of the statue’s removal believe it symbolised the exploitation of black labour and the theft of land from the country’s indigenous population. The campaign’s success prompted further protests over other colonial-era statues across South Africa.Should we review public art pieces to make sure who and what they celebrate is fitting to a modern audience and context? Or should we confront uncomfortable truths hiding in our past and learn from them? We’d like to hear from you. Share a photo of a statue, memorial or plaque using GuardianWitness and tell us why you think it should be removed or why it should remain. Or maybe you think a memorial should stay but that it needs an updated description? We’ll use a selection of your suggestions in a feature on the site.You can share your photos by clicking on the blue “contribute” button. You can also use the Guardian app and search for “GuardianWitness assignments”.GuardianWitness is the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.