I like that moment when meat and its roasting juices meet a creamy accompaniment on the plate. When mac ’n’ cheese melts into the gravy of the Sunday beef, for instance, or when roast chicken nudges a pool of nutmeg-scented bread sauce. Or, as happened this week, when I made a dish of creamed spinach to nestle with slices of roast shoulder of lamb.Actually, the accompaniment was more than creamed spinach. It was a classic white sauce flecked green with chopped spinach and bolstered with fat, slippery butter beans. The beans should have rendered the idea of potatoes redundant, but we put a few in around the meat anyway. Crisp roast lamb fat is high on my list of reasons for living I doubt I’m alone in thinking Sunday just isn’t Sunday without a roast potato. I added a little nutmeg, too. Not much, just a brief grating from a halved nutmeg rubbed eight or nine times on a fine grater. It’s enough. I sometimes like to drop the rest of the nutmeg into the sauce as it cooks – the effect is subtle but worth having, like adding a bay leaf. But I have to admit it’s the devil to find among the spinach afterwards.I bought a shoulder of lamb rather than leg. I’ve been doing this a lot lately. It is trickier to carve (I end up hacking at it), but its fat seems to cook more crisply – crisp roast lamb fat being high on my list of reasons for living.The accompanying sauce was cooked old school, long and slow, with a proper white sauce – not just double cream, so the spinach and beans oozed slowly in pursuit of the lamb’s vermouth and rosemary scented juices.Roast lamb with coriander seed and rosemaryThe timing here is for medium rare, quite pink meat. Alter the cooking time to your taste. If the skin hasn’t browned as much as you would like it to, then turn up the heat to 200C/gas mark 6 for the last 15 minutes of cooking. I regard the resting time as essential.Serves 6shoulder of lamb, bone in 2 kggarlic 3 clovesrosemary 3 bushy sprigscoriander seeds 1 tbspolive oil 80mlstock or dry white vermouth 200mlUsing a very sharp kitchen knife, score the fat of the lamb at 1cm intervals, cutting just below the fat, first one way then the other to give a lattice effect. Place the lamb in a roasting tin and set the oven at 180C/gas mark 4.Peel the garlic and drop it into a food processor or blender. Add a generous grinding of salt and pepper. Pull the needles from the rosemary sprigs then add to the garlic together with the coriander seeds. Pour in the olive oil and blend to a coarse, slightly runny paste.Spread the paste over the surface of the lamb, pushing it right down inside the score marks. Roast in the preheated oven for about 1 hour and 15 minutes. That will give a medium-rare result.Remove the lamb from the oven and leave it to rest, covered, in a warm place, while you complete the beans and spinach.Just before you serve, lift the lamb on to a carving board, pour most of the fat from the roasting tin into a pan then place the pan over a moderate heat.Pour the wine or stock into the pan and bring to the boil, stirring and scraping at any tasty bits in the pan. Season thoughtfully. Carve the lamb thinly, and serve it with the creamed beans and the roasting juices.Creamed butter beans and spinach      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bean feast: creamed butter beans and spinach. Photograph: Jonathan Lovekin for the ObserverI start the sauce shortly before the lamb comes out of the oven. Serves 6 as a side dish, 4 as a main course.For the sauce:milk 500mlonion ½cloves 3bay leaves 2black peppercorns 6butter 40gplain flour 40gnutmeg for gratingspinach 750gbutter beans 2 x 400g cansPour the milk into a saucepan, add the onion, cloves, bay leaves and black peppercorns and bring almost to the boil. Immediately remove from the heat and set aside.Remove and discard the thickest stems from the spinach then wash the leaves very thoroughly in deep, cold water. Place a large, deep saucepan over a moderate heat, pile in the spinach with 4 tbsp of water, then cover tightly with a lid and steam for 3 or 4 minutes until bright and wilted. It is a good idea to turn the leaves over once or twice as they cook. I use kitchen tongs. It’s a good idea to turn spinach leaves over a couple of times as they cook. I use tongs Remove the spinach from the pan, cool quickly in a colander under running cold water, then drain. Squeeze the leaves in the palm of your hand to remove as much water as possible. Roughly chop the spinach and set aside.Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and cook over a moderate heat for a couple of minutes, stirring, then pour in the infused milk thorough a sieve. Season with salt, ground black pepper and just a little grated nutmeg. Leave to simmer for a good 15 to 20 minutes, stirring regularly, until you have a thick and creamy sauce.Drain the beans of their canning liquor, then stir them into the sauce, followed by the chopped spinach. If you need to keep the sauce warm while you slice the lamb, place a buttered sheet of paper over the top and leave in a warm place or over a very low heat.Slice the lamb thinly and serve with any roasting juices and the creamed beans and spinach.Email Nigel at nigel.slater@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @NigelSlater