I t’s a funny thing, nostalgia. With the benefit of not being there, the modern romantic can impose whatever ideas they fancy on the past. For reasons which may or may not be connected to voluminous frilly petticoats, the most attractive period is often the Victorian age. Dramas set in these times tend either to be full of the sort of tubercular waifs whose lives are so mud-spattered they become slapstick, or cheeky orphan chimney sweeps saying things like “Cor it’ll be nippy by St Modwen’s Day and no mistake, guvnor!” next to a lovely shire horse. In other words, an era as dismal as any other has, bizarrely, become a sort of jovial granddad.Not so much with The Secret Agent (Sunday, 9pm, BBC1). The year is 1886, and things are looking a bit peak for the bourgeoisie of London. “Attack the rich!” says an enthusiastic anarchist in a dimly lit parlour. “They nourish their greed on the quivering flesh of our people! Their jaws drip with our blood so we should spill theirs!” This new BBC series is based on Joseph Conrad’s novel which is in turn inspired by a real-life plot to blow up the Greenwich Observatory. You wouldn’t know it, thanks to the elite’s determined efforts to avoid mentioning 19th-century terrorism in all drama (I’m looking at you, The Muppet Christmas Carol), but the period from 1881 to 1901 was a hotbed of European radicalism. Terrorist acts were frequent and ideas of extremism and civil liberties bubbled up into public life. Deepest apols for the history lesson, but you need to know this stuff to fully appreciate why Mr Vlad, the Russian ambassador to London, is forcing anarchist informer Verloc (Toby Jones) to bomb the meridian.Mr Vlad is hoping the plot will lead to a crackdown on political rebels, and Verloc is more than slightly buggered if he refuses his bomb-planting orders; it is a move he is assured will see his cover forcibly removed. So it doesn’t help that his wife Winnie (Vicky McClure, excellent obviously) keeps letting anarchists into the parlour to hold revolutionary meetings. Nor that he has to cosy up to paranoid weirdos like the Professor, who wears a steampunk suicide vest under his overcoat at all times, just in case something mutinous goes down. To top it all off, Verloc’s head looks in colour, texture and squishiness exactly like a suet pudding, which comes with huge risks in Victorian London.Despite some heavy-handed characterisation that might just be the vestigial remains of the novel’s satirical intent, and the mysterious hankering for steak and kidney pie you feel while watching, with the world at full terror saturation you can’t fault The Secret Agent’s timing. I do have some issues with Verloc, though. As a grass, he’s my ideological enemy, and I don’t like the way his eyes keep flicking from the Professor’s homemade bomb to Winnie’s autistic brother Stevie (who has a habit of waking up the entire household in the middle of the night screaming), then back to the bomb again. Verloc looks like he wants nothing to do with the Greenwich plot, but an agent provocateur only needs to say something provocative to the wrong person to get things rolling, and before you know it landmarks have massive great big holes in the side of them, politicians are cracking down on dissent, and alarming numbers of people are darkly muttering that jet fuel can’t melt steel telescopes…