“Unconventional,” was the only word the estate agent could think of to describe it, when Alice Grahame and her husband Paul came to look around a house in Walters Way in the leafy south London suburb of Honor Oak. “And a bit weird.”A decade later, Grahame has become so fascinated by the weirdness of her street she has curated an exhibition about its origins at the Architectural Association. The show tells the heroic tale of a time in the 1980s when the London borough of Lewisham took the bold step of letting residents take the future of their homes into their own hands, with the UK’s first self-built council housing project. In an unlikely twist, it also reveals how the project’s pioneering principles, largely since forgotten, are enjoying a revival in the very same borough – with a new self-build project that could provide a revolutionary template for community-led affordable housing.Walking down the sloping street of Walters Way today, it is easy to sympathise with the baffled estate agent. The cluster of boxy wooden cabins on stilts, clinging to the hillside as they step down the winding road in a motley jumble, looks like an alternative eco resort, or a colony of Japanese tea-houses, appropriated and adapted by DIY enthusiasts. The exposed half-timbered frames are variously infilled in shades of beige, terracotta and mossy green, and ringed with stepped verandahs, porches and ad hoc extensions. An angular treehouse folds around a gnarled old trunk, while a wall of recycled stained-glass windows winds its mad way around a neighbour’s garden.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Segal houses are based on a simple post-and-beam construction system so the internal layout can be easily changed. Photograph: Taran WilkhuThis lively anarchic vision is the legacy of Walter Segal, the radical German architect who said that anyone could build their own house, as long as they could cut a straight line. Segal’s straightforward approach to building, using wooden post-and-beam construction on a modular grid of standard dimensions, did away with the messy complications of wet trades like cement and plaster, and allowed infinite variation and flexibility in how people’s homes were laid out. Segal said that anyone could build their own house, as long as they could cut a straight line “He was a totally empowering figure,” says Dave Dayes, who built his house on Walters Way in the 1980s, where he still lives – and where his ambitious home improvements are ongoing. “He made it all seem possible.” With 13 families building houses at the same time, Dayes says it felt like a collective, almost festive endeavour, with kids running up and down ladders and playing in piles of sand – as footage of the process in the exhibition shows. “Every time a new frame went up it was like a ceremony,” he recalls. “You would spend weeks building this thing on the ground, then suddenly you were looking up at it soaring into the air. It was a powerful feeling. And it gave me this long-term illness called DIY.”Ian White, who moved to Walters Way 18 years ago, says the beauty of Segal’s structural system is that you can keep on changing the layout. “You can easily adapt the house as the needs of your family evolve,” he says, standing in his generous open-plan living room, where a light-flooded seating area looks out over a stepped garden deck. “It’s all based on the standard sheet sizes of timber and plasterboard, so you can simply unbolt a panel and move things around with minimal effort.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a short documentary on Walter’s WayWhat became known as the “Segal method” was developed almost by chance. When Segal was rebuilding his own house in Highgate, he erected a temporary cabin at the bottom of the garden for his family to live in, a lightweight wooden structure built for just £800 with no foundations other than paving slabs. Visitors were generally more interested in his humble timber shed than the new brick house, leading to a number of private commissions that allowed him to refine the method. (The cabin, since rotten and torn down, is being reborn to designs by Assemble, the Turner prize-winning architecture collective – a model is on display in the exhibition.)'This isn't at all like London': life in Walter Segal's self-build 'anarchist' estate Segal’s work came to the attention of Lewisham’s former assistant borough architect, Brian Richardson, via the anarchist writer Colin Ward, and councillor Nicholas Taylor, who agreed to test the approach on awkward pockets of land that were too small or sloping to fit the council’s own housebuilding programme. Beginning in the late 1970s on a site now known as Segal Close, the houses were bought by the residents on a shared-ownership arrangement. The self-builder purchased part of the house on a 99-year lease from the council, then paid a portion of the standard council rent for the balance of the equity. The cost of the lease was reduced by a sum equivalent to the value of the self-builder’s labour to build the house – their “sweat equity” – and the self-builders were guaranteed a council mortgage.The arrangement seems mildly utopian by today’s standards, a financing model that meant the majority of residents could soon buy their homes outright. Most have since cashed in on London’s real estate goldmine, sold their little cabins at vastly increased prices, and moved on. Dayes is one of just three original residents left.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barn-raising … the self-builders raise one of the house frames in the 1980s Photograph: Jon BroomeHis staying power might prove to be the most important factor in reviving Segal’s legacy. His son, Kareem Dayes, a 28-year-old musician who grew up on Walters Way, is now the driving force behind a plan to bring back affordable self-build housing in Lewisham, leading a project that is forging ahead against all the odds.“It was inspiring to know what had happened here once, and that it must be possible to do it again,” he says, sitting in the house where his dad has since added several extensions, including a spectacular double-height glazed yoga studio. Having grown up here, before living in a co-op in New Cross, Kareem Dayes is full of optimism that community-led housing can provide a viable alternative – and he’s managed to convince Lewisham council to give it another go. It’s a far cry from the Grand Designs idea of self-build On a site in Ladywell, a couple of miles east of Walters Way, the council has agreed to hand over the land on a long-term lease to the Rural Urban Synthesis Society (Russ), a community land trust (CLT) set up by Dayes, to develop 33 new homes for a mix of affordable tenures. Unlike the original Lewisham self-builds of the 80s, the Ladywell development will remain affordable in perpetuity, with rents linked to local incomes through the community land trust, which will retain a stake of at least 20% in each home.The proposal includes five flats for social rent; two shared flats – each with three purpose-designed studios for young people unable to afford full market rents; 14 flats offered on a discounted shared-equity basis (the CLT’s stake will enable control of subsequent resales to people similarly in need); and 12 homes available shared-ownership, where residents buy a 25% share and can “earn” up to a further 12% ownership to reflect the sweat equity in building their homes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Architype’s proposal for new self-build affordable housing in Ladywell. Illustration: ArchitypeThe scheme is being designed by Architype, a practice set up as a co-operative in 1984 by architects Jon Broome and Bob Hayes, who both worked with Segal and have continued to develop his method in projects across the country. Their design, intended to be built to Passivhaus standards of energy efficiency, incorporates big terraces for shared gardens and food production, as well as a community hall and kitchen for community meetings, performances and childcare.The do-it-yourself answer to Britain's housing crisis “It’s a far cry from the Grand Designs idea of self-build,” says Levent Kerimol of Our London, the self-build organisation that’s been working with Lewisham council to develop the project. “Nor is it the commercial idea of ‘custom build’, where buyers get to choose their layouts and fittings and developers get let off Section 106 contributions. This is about a democratic, collective effort, that puts the residents in control. It shows how self-build can work at high density on urban sites, not just be confined to one-off houses in the countryside.”With community land trusts immune from the government’s iniquitous extension of right to buy, it is also a model that guarantees the long-term provision of affordable housing and the best value use of publicly owned land. It’s a real version of the big society in action, and an example other local authorities would do well to follow.Walter’s Way: The Self-Build Revolution is at the Architectural Association, London, until 24 March.