We are living in the age of hyper-anxiety. In response to the seismic and unsettling events of this year – Brexit in the UK, the Trump election in the US, One Nation in Australia and terror attacks everywhere – all the wellness blogs I subscribe to are advising people to mediate, practice craft, bake, talk to a friend or therapist if they’re feeling anxious and get back on the mat. Everything but get angry and take to the streets.So you want to get out of your bubble: try reading these conservative websites The New York Times asked: Can Yoga Help Chase The Post Election Blues?Yoga studios, arts organisations and meditation centres are opening their doors to people afraid, anxious and worried after the most bitter election in recent memory.The last decade has seen the proliferation of mindfulness apps, yoga retreats, organic farm-to-table restaurants, Instagram yogi-celebs, $120 yoga pants, day spas and meditation classes. The wellness industrial complex is a symptom not just of the excesses of late capitalism (but the excesses are all about control and living forever – inverse to say the excesses of 1980s, where it was all cocaine, and ponies and exotic islands) and a monetisation of the liberal, hippy project that started in the 1960s, when the Beatles went to India, and continued through the 70s.Most importantly – at this juncture in time – the obsession with “wellness” represents a flight away from the public fight into the self.The liberal, monied classes have helped turn the westernised version of yoga not just into an exercise to keep the body toned, but a defacto religion that melds eastern mysticism with a sort of revamped self-help therapy.The philosophy is to cool your anger, dude. You may not be able to do much about the world but you can “show yourself loving kindness” and you can “master your breath, let the self be in bliss, contemplate on the sublime within you.”Anger is to be vanquished.Barbara Ehrenreich’s Smile or Die: How Positive Thinking Fooled America and the World levels a similar charge at the insidiousness of positive thinking. When she was diagnosed with breast cancer she was told positive thinking could help cure her of the disease. She wondered, could the same mantras and pink ribbons also help a woman without health insurance cure the disease? The trend for positive thinking over activism for better and more equitable healthcare is a displacement of energy that can have fatal consequences.The wellness industrial complex can be just as harmful as the positive thinking industry. In the last 10 years we have seen the middle classes take flight into downward facing dog.Yoga is now big business. According to the Yoga Journal report, 20.4 million people practice yoga in the US, up from 15.8 million yoga practitioners in 2008. One in 10 Australia aged 14 and over practice yoga. In the UK, it’s just over 1% of the population, although numbers are growing. The yoga market is now worth $30bn in the US and $80bn globally.  An article in the New York Times in 2011 a noted a disturbing social trend. Just as the women of the 1970s took flight into conscious raising groups, the workforce, divorce and zipless fucks, their daughters are also taking flight, but that flight is inwards – to yoga.The article glumly – but correctly – concludes:  ... there’s no sense that personal liberation is to be found by taking a more active role in the public world. Instead, making a home is re-encoded as a privilege, an accomplishment, even a form of freedom from the burdens and demands of the workplace ... For some of these women, such interiority seems to be a way to manage an unbearable sort of existential anxiety: a way to narrow the scope of life’s challenges and demands. If we all turn inward and abandon public duty, the world then turns a certain way, and not another.With the crumbling of progressive, liberal ideals, the rise of the alt-right, the denigration of women, Jews, people of colour and Muslims and all the ugliness of the recent US presidential election, it’s so tempting to become enfolded into the soft comforts of the wellness industrial complex. It tells us we can control things: the in and out of our breath, the distractions, thoughts, feelings and ideas that try to colonise the mind when we’re meant to be emptying it.The memes and the classes and the retreats and the podcasts and the swag can take up all our time and money. It can be a fulltime job, being well. But more important, it can stave off very real anxiety about the direction our society is travelling in.During the Nazi and later Stasi eras, the Germans spoke of “internal migration”. The barbarians were at the gate, and they seemed too powerful to fight, so you went in, or away, in your head. You drew the curtains, lit a fire, you listened to Mahler, you withdrew.We can’t blame people for abandoning the barricades and leaving them to rust. In the west there was a widespread feeling of powerlessness following the protests to the invasion of Iraq in 2002 and 2003. Millions took to the streets all over the world – with massive numbers in Paris, London, Washington DC, Melbourne and New York – and it came to naught. According to the French academic Dominique Reynié, between 3 January and 12 April 2003, 36 million people across the globe took part in almost 3,000 protests against the Iraq war.Family feud, election edition: Americans brace for Thanksgiving discord Yet the biggest protests in the history of the world were ignored by those in power. When this many people on the street become invisible to their governments, a contract or circuit breaks between the government and the people. Weren’t widespread protests meant to change things? It was like the air going out of the tyres. Protest – the vehicle meant to transport us to another place – just wasn’t going anywhere. It’s like the government ghosted the people.After that, protests on the street came to resemble an activity for the lunatic fringe – sound and fury that signified nothing. We rolled up our banners and rolled out our yoga mats. Namaste, dudes.Calmed and centred with all this yoga and meditation, it’s time to take the next step. The time for action is now. Let’s get up off our mats and unfurl those banners. And once more unto the breach.Brigid Delaney has written a book on the wellness industry to be published in June 2017.