From golf to rugby sevens, and even possibly jousting, the list of Olympic sports gets longer every four years. But this year it seems an unlikely 43rd spectator sport has snuck its way on to the roster: marriage proposals.In the first 10 days of this year’s Rio Games, three athletes have found their partners getting down on bended knee – or in one case holding up the crucial question on a sign – in front of a live audience of thousands and with the news cameras of the world capturing the moment. The competitors themselves have also got in on the act. Moments after winning a silver medal in triple jump, the American Will Claye bounded into the stands, dropped to a knee and proposed to his longtime girlfriend, hurdler Queen Harrison. She said yes. A fifth athlete, British race walker Tom Bosworth, chose the night after his 20km race to propose to his boyfriend to against the quieter backdrop of Rio’s Copacabana beach and later tweeted a photo of it happening.Tom Bosworth (@TomBosworth)He said YES!!! pic.twitter.com/roXsw7oq8fAugust 15, 2016Every proposal has been greeted with a yes, prompting a global outpouring of emotion as people have celebrated the grand romantic gesture, carried out in full glare of the public.However, the timing and public nature of the proposals have also attracted criticism both for putting vast amounts of pressure on the would-be spouse and for detracting from his or her sporting achievements.The first emotional proposal came early in the Games, when Brazilian women’s rugby sevens player Isadora Cerullo was asked for her hand in marriage by her girlfriend, Marjorie Enya, in front of the whole roaring stadium after the Brazil squad had been knocked out of the competition.This was followed by Chinese diver Qin Kai, who proposed to his teammate and girlfriend, He Zi, during the ceremony where she was being presented with a silver medal for women’s springboard. She had tears in her eyes after he did it, though many noted that it took her a long time for a smile to replace her look of shock.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brazil’s Isadora Cerullo, right, embraces her partner, Marjorie Enya, after she was asked to marry her. Photograph: Alexander Hassenstein/Getty ImagesSome users on Chinese social media website Weibo accused Qin of hijacking the moment as a publicity stunt to make them “China’s new golden couple”. Author Sunny Singh also criticised the proposal as a way of Qin undermining the sporting success of his girlfriend. “It’s a control mechanism, a way of saying: ‘You may just have won an Olympic medal ... but really the most important thing is you’re my wife,’” she said.“Imagine if it was someone like Michael Phelps receiving a medal and a woman came up and proposed - people would laugh at her.”But Gurpreet Singh, a relationship counsellor with charity Relate, disagreed with this interpretation. “I cannot judge, but there was nothing in his actions that made it look like the proposal was a controlling act,” he said. “Traditionally, men do propose to women, and so in that context, I don’t think you can look upon it as a sexist act or a man stealing a women’s moment.“It’s much more important to consider whether for, this couple, it was something they both felt comfortable with and felt was right for them.”Gurpreet said the spate of marriage proposals at the Olympics was indicative of a wider trend towards grandeur and publicity when it came to popping the question. The rise of social media, and people sharing every moment on Facebook and Twitter, means people’s inhibitions towards public displays of emotion have increasingly disappeared – often to the detriment of relationships.“These days there is both an idealistic and social pressure for grand public proposals,” he said. “The pressure of having an ideal relationship, which should be celebrated, is very prominent and it is putting pressure on people to put on these grand, idealistic proposals even when it isn’t suited to their relationship and when it isn’t something that has been discussed.”Gurpreet warned against people blindly following the example of Qin and Cerullo with making their own proposals a public spectacle. “It a very risky path for couples to go down,” he said.“Who are we to judge what does or doesn’t work for a couple and choosing that particular moment in the Olympics is fine if they had discussed it before,” he said. “But really what is the grand proposal for? Is it going to help to make a better success of a relationship? And from my experience, I’m not sure that those two things equate.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Britain’s Charlotte Dujardin, left, poses for with her partner, Dean Golding, after she won a second gold. Photograph: John Locher/APAnother Olympics proposal came on Monday night when Britain’s Charlotte Dujardin finished her high-scoring freestyle dressage test. As she earned her second Olympic gold, cameras zoomed in on her long-time partner in the stands holding up a sign saying: “Will you marry me now?”However, she said that her partner had in fact proposed to her before the Olympics. “I don’t think he believed it was going to happen so I think he has made it so public that now I am certainly going to do it,” she said. Dr Tansin Benn, who sits on the board of the International Assoication of Physical Education and Sport for Girls and Women, said it was no bad thing to show that those who had dedicate their lives to sports had not done it to the detriment of loving relationships. “High-performance athletes often put their personal lives on hold, given the intensity of training focus required to succeed in the Olympics,” she said. “Therefore post-winning announcements such as engagements or wedding dates are unsurprising.“I do believe the public recognise and admire the skill levels of these champions, women and men, and that this is not diminished by announcements of engagements or wedding dates, or tomorrow’s retirement. What matters is the moment and the athletes achievements.” 