Wow, what a humdinger of an episode. One of my favourite things about The Walking Dead is that its season premieres (or, in this case, a half-season premiere or whatever the hell we’re calling it these days) are really season finales just time-shifted so we have to wait as long as possible to get our answers to the cliffhangers. Just look at how this episode was structured. We finally got the outcome of the zombie stampede that started in the season premiere as well as seeing the transformation of the Alexandrians from a bunch of scared sheep to an activated tribe ready to fight for their survival. It should be a finale, but instead, it’s just how we’re going to kick off the second half of the season.‘If you have to eat shit, it’s better not to nibble’ The episode started with one of the biggest cliffhangers of the first half of the season: just who are these men confronting Daryl, Sasha and Abraham on their way back to Alexandria, and who is this Negan they work for? (Well, we know he’s Jeffrey Dean Morgan, but he’s not going to show up for a while.) They seem to be similar, if not the same, to the group that Daryl confronted in the woods when he tried to help those runaways who eventually robbed him. They forced the crew to give over all their weapons and threatened to kill Abraham just for asking a simple question. Right before he’s about to pull the trigger, an explosion envelopes all the bikes, thanks to Daryl and the rocket launcher that Abraham risked his life for a few episodes back. Thank God for that ammo. Daryl, Abraham and Sasha were responsible for all the deus ex machina saves this episode, also unleashing machine-gun fire to keep Glen from getting eaten during Alexandria’s last stand. (Just how the bullets didn’t rip through that rotted flesh and get Glen too, I don’t know. Good thing I’m not a physicist.) Oh, and let’s not forget the grand finale where Daryl turned all the walkers into crispy critters. While this encounter was strangely situated at the beginning of the episode, the threats from outsiders, including both the Wolves and Negan’s camp, are surely going to be what occupies the survivors of Alexandria for the rest of the season. ‘You’re right. I changed. Now I want to help you change’ Just by the number of times the word was mentioned, “change” was certainly the theme of the episode. The Walking Dead is never subtle. The line above comes from the Wolf who was dragging Dr Denise away from the camp. Morgan wanted to change him, but it didn’t seem to take. Now he wants Dr Denise to go from a nebbish scaredy-cat to a tough, flesh-eating Wolf. I certainly hope he doesn’t want to change her teeth to look like his. However, this message soon becomes muddled. While they’re trying to escape, the Wolf comes back to save Dr Denise from a walker, only to get bitten himself. Maybe all that passive resistance mumbo-jumbo Morgan was indoctrinating him with worked? Dr Denise offers to save his life if he will return with her to the infirmary. Maybe the Wolf has changed after all. We’ll never find out because he was gunned down by sniper badass Carol as he’s steps away from the infirmary. Dr Denise has always been kind and looking out for others, but we certainly saw a huge shift in her confidence and ability to function under pressure when Rick showed up with Carl and she snapped right into George Clooney on ER mode immediately. Someone get her 90cc’s of something medical sounding, stat!Speaking of indoctrination, it seems like everyone in Alexandria finally has Stockholm syndrome from being with Rick for so long. Either that, or they knew they had to fight for their lives in order to survive. Both Eugene and Gabriel, the two most reticent to kill, went out to join the others to take on the zombies. Even the unnamed Alexandrians, such as Chubby Lady with Glasses, come out into the streets with their swords and screwdrivers to spill some guts. “We’ve been praying that God will save Alexandria,” Gabriel says. “God has given us the courage to save ourselves.” Was it God, or just Rick hounding everyone about how weak they are? ‘They’re going to eat you up’ The best, strangest, most heart-shattering scene of the evening was when Jessie’s obviously troubled son Sam freaked out about the zombies, which led to his entire family being slaughtered. We all knew that something was going to happen with Sam, especially after everyone let him go along with Rick and co instead of going to safety with Gabriel and Judith in the church. There has been too much fixation on his fragility not to have it pay off. The odd thing was that it was Carol’s voice he heard while walking through the hellscape of Alexandria on their way to the quarry. (I was never quite sure exactly what Rick’s plan was, but it turned out that improvising was exponentially more effective.) He hears her scaring him about how deadly life is and sees the monsters devouring flesh much in a way that a child would have a nightmare. The rest of the scene unfolded similarly, shot at strange angles and with little sound and slow movements, I was waiting for Rick or someone else to wake up and have the whole thing not happen. It was just so unexpected for Sam to get eaten, then the screaming Jessie, and then her other son Ron getting knifed by Michonne while trying to shoot Rick, and successfully taking out Carl’s eye. I didn’t see that coming. (#TooSoon?)   But it was altogether true and devoid of the swelling music and melancholy that usually surrounds key deaths on the show. It was terrifying and surreal, just as that moment must have been for the people experiencing it. And none of those moments were worse than when Rick had to hack off Jessie’s arm to get Carl free. It’s telling that it was Carol who literally frightened Sam to death. While her “kill or be killed” mentality was accepted by Rick and his cohort, it seems to be a philosophy that is going out of style, as expressed by the pacifism of Morgan and Dr Denise. It seems that the Wolf did change, that he could have been saved, but Carol acted as a survivalist and didn’t give him a chance. It’s going to be hard in these walls for Carol if she ends up being more of a hawk than the rest of the society. That is what got her banished the first time, and it could happen again. ‘It’s all possible. I see that now’ Speaking of Rick’s lousy plans, I’m not entirely sure that he had one when he rushed out of the infirmary and decided to incite Alexandria’s Last Stand against the zombie horde. It seemed like he was just lashing out against that place, against his girlfriend being eaten, and his son shooting his eye out like a bad sequel to A Christmas Story. But everyone joins him, strong and meek alike, to push back the horde and take back the city. I’m not convinced that it would have actually succeeded if not for the surprise intercept by Daryl, who used the trusty tanker and missile launcher to turn the pond in the city center into a literal lake of fire. Nothing on television has ever looked more like Revelation than the bodies of the undead sinking into that fiery water. In the morning the ground is covered by all the zombie corpses (I feel sorry for whoever is on clean-up duty) and the exhausted members of Alexandria stand triumphant on the front porch, though they look far more haggard than victorious. Rick is at Carl’s bedside and we see that he has also changed. He has accepted Deanna’s doctrine into his own and knows that they need to be defensive but also build something meaningful, to include other people and try to make a successful society again.   Well, let’s just wait until Negan shows up. 