1. Sound of the UndergroundGirls Aloud – Cheryl Tweedy (as she was then), Nadine Coyle, Nicola Roberts, Kimberley Walsh and Sarah Harding – had no right to have a 10-year career featuring 21 UK Top 10 singles. They definitely had no right helping redefine UK pop – aided by gonzo producer Brian Higgins, songwriter Miranda Cooper and the Xenomania production rabble – via a run of singles and albums that imbibed genres, tore up the structural rulebook and gave us lyrics such as “something kinda ooh, jumping on my tutu”. Brought together in 2002 via ITV’s short-lived Pop Stars: The Rivals, the idea was they’d be the girl band losers to the inevitable boy band victors, the hapless One True Voice. For context, at the time the biggest pop band in the UK were Westlife, the Louis Walsh-created mannequins whose only nod to any sense of pop performance was a habit of standing up off a stool during the inevitable thudding key change. On the final episode of the show, One True Voice debuted a sexless cover of some old Bee Gees song, while Girls Aloud stomped on stage looking like an explosion in Tammy Girl and launched into Sound of the Underground, a Higgins original that was one of 60 songs he’d demoed waiting for the perfect girl band. That it wasn’t a) an obvious cover or b) a beige ballad was shocking enough for a TV talent show single, but the fact that it was properly, undeniably amazing – all cascading surf guitar, ricocheting beats and lyrics you imagine teenagers might actually relate to – almost tore a hole in the space-time continuum. The single went on to “win”, ie it was Christmas No 1 that year, selling 213,000 copies to One True Voice’s 147,000. The latter were barely heard of again.2. The Show While the majority of Girls Aloud’s debut album, also called Sound of the Underground, was handled by Xenomania, the band’s label threatened to drop them unless Higgins agreed to helm the follow-up in its entirety. Inspired by their more electro-leaning cover of the Pointer Sisters’ Jump (recorded for the Love Actually soundtrack) the band decided they wanted to return with something more sonically upbeat. They also decided to ditch the guitars that had underpinned both Sound of the Underground and its metallic follow-up, No Good Advice. So, just six months after Jump, anti-promiscuity anthem The Show (“Boy if you want to be my specialty / You’ll have to wait for me and that is that”) – built around a glorious, 90s rave-esque synth-stutter – not only launched their second album, What Will the Neighbours Say?, but also instigated one of the best and most sonically creative run of singles in UK pop history. Showcasing Higgins’ desire to create something “a little too odd to be on the radio”, The Show’s structure is all over the place, creating a sort of impressionist version of pop. Every section could be a chorus, while even the order of the various sections seems to change throughout the song or appear when you least expect them to. That it holds together as an actual song is some sort of pop alchemy we may never get to the bottom of.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In the pink … Girls Aloud. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the Guardian3. Love Machine Occasionally Xenomania’s thirst for experimentation alienated the band themselves. What Will the Neighbours Say?’s second single, the Smiths-inspired (Johnny Marr would later collaborate with them on 2008’s Out of Control album), 80s teen-pop shuffle Love Machine was, according to Nicola, recorded in 18 parts over three days and was initially deemed “career suicide” by Nadine (perhaps she was referring to the “let’s go eskimo” lyric?). The band instead wanted to release Deadlines & Diets, a fairly maudlin, almost bluesy downtempo ballad. An “embarrassing” meeting between band and label, however, resulted in Love Machine being released and the single going on to become one of their defining songs (according to a 2006 poll carried out by Nokia, it’s also the second most exhilarating song ever after Blur’s Song 2). An emblem of how far the pop envelope was being pushed during this early noughties purple patch (helped along the way by the likes of Richard X and Bloodshy & Avant), the song went on to reach No 2. It even crossed over into the world of fun-free authentic musicianship, catching the ear of Alex Turner, who covered it during an Arctic Monkeys Radio 1 Live Lounge in 2006. Littered with defiant lyrical gems about the opposite sex and barely there euphemisms (“I need a squeeze a day”), the song still ricochets with the sort of kinetic energy and gonzo spirit sorely lacking in pop’s current climate.Girls Aloud: the makings of a pop success story 4. Graffiti My Soul Originally intended as the fifth single from What Will the Neighbours Say?, but cancelled so the band could focus on recording the Chemistry album, the avant-garde pop of Graffiti My Soul was originally meant for Britney Spears’ In the Zone. In fact, while Spears did actually record it – Cheryl later referred to Britney’s version as “strange” – the song was ultimately rejected. “The record company loved it, but Britney’s people said ‘Where’s the chorus? Why are there no repetitive parts?’”, Higgins told the Observer in 2004. Built around a sample of Dutch musician Peplab’s 2001 track It’s Not The Drug, Graffiti My Soul’s brilliance comes from the strange marriage of its many disparate styles, somehow fusing the Prodigy’s dark-hued dance with Michael Jackson-like staccato pop, and more than a dash of sweetness. Again it’s structurally all over the show, and Britney’s criticisms of its lack of a hook are not exactly wide of the mark (in the end she turned to Cathy Dennis and got Toxic, so things worked out pretty well). As with all the songs that emerged from Xenomania around that time, it fizzes with a sense of breathless experimentation and a genuine desire to shake up the pop formula without throwing the baby out with the bath water.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Girls Aloud’s Graffiti My Soul.5. Biology Perhaps the pinnacle of Xenomania and Girls Aloud’s song structure deconstruction experiments came with 2005’s Biology, the first single from their third album, Chemistry (as with most pop acts at the time, the pressure was on to release an album a year where humanly possible). Fuelled by the disappointment of previous single Long Hot Summer – a song recorded in a panic for the Herbie: Fully Loaded soundtrack and what Higgins referred to as “a disaster record” – Biology is the perfect snapshot of sonic risk-taking and pure unfiltered pop joy colliding head-on. Loaded with hooks and pre-choruses where there should be verses, or middle-eights that become verses and/or choruses, the song is basically one long attempt to continually dismantle and then rebuild a song. Opening with Nadine crooning over a piano riff based on the Animals’ Club A-Gogo, it soon sashays through various movements, initially settling into a simple verse structure before the pre-chorus seems to just keep going, endlessly ramping up until in the end the chorus – or at least one of the choruses – finally glistens into view for the first time, almost halfway through the song. 6. Something Kinda Ooooh By the end of 2006, Girls Aloud’s run of near-immaculate singles (and some pretty average ballads) had earned them a greatest hits album. Tellingly, The Sound of Girls Aloud: The Greatest Hits was their first album to reach the No 1 spot in the UK, going on to shift over 1.2m copies and becoming their biggest-selling album. To help launch the collection, the band released Something Kinda Ooooh, perhaps their most straight-ahead dance single. Initially inspired by George Michael’s Too Funky, an early demo of the song (which you can hear on the Rarities disc as part of 2009’s The Singles Box Set) comes complete with plastic funk guitar and sounds like the perfect soundtrack to an ITV2 beach-set dating show. After a number of re-workings, however, the song came to represent a head-spinning amalgam of their first three albums. Galloping along at breakneck speed, Cheryl kicking things off with “I’ve got to heat it up, doctor, got to heat it up” (there’s a cream for that, surely?), the song ramps up sonic aggressiveness to perfectly encapsulate that first rush of lust (“when tomorrow comes, maybe I won’t even know your name”), while the immaculate little pause after the “shoulda known where the man was at” in the pre-chorus is one of those exact moments where a tiny detail makes your stomach flip. Ridiculously, given the song’s general zip and vim, it ends with a fade-out.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Girls Aloud’s Something Kinda Ooooh video.7. Sexy! No No No …While Girls Aloud’s songs had always been tailored for the band, by their fourth (and best) album, Tangled Up, both the girls and Xenomania were keen for them be more creatively involved. Before work started on the album, Higgins met up with each member individually to chat about where their lives were at since the release of Chemistry. The album’s lead single, the oddly-titled Sexy! No No No …, was the first to feature a writing credit for the band, its creation the result of fusing together three completely separate songs. Opening with Cheryl’s voice, heavily filtered over ominous-sounding electronic squiggles, it immediately sets its stall out as their most obviously outré moment, the segue into the juddering second section (built around a sped up sample of Hair of the Dog by 1970s rock band Nazareth) gloriously heavy-handed. From there it careens around, pin-balling through a sort of dating Q&A (“did you kiss him? No no no”) before reaching the relative calm of the second verse. That calm is then torpedoed by Nadine’s half-rapped “I can’t deny the way my d-d-dirty mind is saying ‘lover, come and get me’”, before a whole other section, sung by Nicola, appears and disappears in the blink of eye. It is, quite frankly, exhausting, in the best possible way.Girls Aloud: reality stars of the decade 8. Call the Shots If Sexy! No No No … is Tangled Up’s Frankenstein’s monster, then the featherlight follow-up, Call the Shots, is its unadorned gem. With the glistening instrumental created in 2005, and the song originally intended for the greatest hits album (in the end it was deemed too downbeat), it finally saw the light of day at the end of 2007, peaking at No 3. Unlike their noughties girl band rivals the Sugababes – who they’d collaborated with on the frankly disastrous Walk This Way earlier that year – Girls Aloud never quite managed to pull off a proper blustery ballad. Much more comfortable with a pacier BPM, Call the Shots is more of a downtempo banger, like a ballad (the lyrics detail the brittle end of a relationship) dressed up and dragged on a forget-all-your-troubles night out. Shorn of the pick’n’mix, odd slogan-style lyrics of some of their earlier singles, Call the Shots is packed full of perfectly finessed lines that deftly encapsulate that point where you pick yourself up after a break-up. It’s there from the opening line, Nadine singing “Static tone on the phone are we breaking again?” only to be followed by the semi-sarcastic “must be something better, babe”, while the little lift in the pre-chorus when Nadine sings “I won’t cry for all the hunger in my heart, no,” suddenly sounds like defiance. That defiance continues through the immaculate chorus, but it’s Nicola’s fragile middle eight that’s perhaps the song’s crowning achievement, the line “so full of twilight, dreams that glitter” such a perfect summation of their unlikely career it formed the title of their inevitable biography.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Calling the shots … Kimberley Walsh, Cheryl Cole, Sarah Harding, Nadine Coyle and Nicola Roberts. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the Guardian9. Untouchable (album version)As any fool will tell you, the optimum pop song length is around 3 minutes 30 seconds, four minutes if there’s a guest verse. But if anyone could get away with breaking the pop rules it was Girls Aloud and Xenomania. Untouchable – the third single from 2008’s patchy Out of Control, and, annoyingly, their first single to miss the top 10 – clocks in at nearly seven minutes. Or at least the album version does, the massacred single edit an abomination I still can’t bring myself to acknowledge. While the album’s lead single The Promise was its big, obvious hit – a UK No 1 fuelled by Cheryl’s emergence as the nation’s sweetheart via her tenure on The X Factor – it’s the Balearic-tinged Untouchable that felt like its proper, perhaps only, statement song. Opening with a languid guitar riff and floaty synths, it’s the band’s most effortless-sounding single, the bells and whistles kept to a minimum to allow the core song to shine through. Without ever feeling overly long, the verses and that glorious chorus are given ample time to breathe, spacious pockets of instrumentation cropping up where before they’d be stuffed with extra sections. Just when you think its already reached its apex, however, Nadine’s middle eight bit suddenly bursts out of the calm around the 4m 50s mark, all pent-up pain and featuring a lovely lyric about “beautiful robots dancing alone”. 10. Memory of You For some reason or other, Girls Aloud’s label didn’t seem to want anyone to hear Memory of You, their best B-side (this isn’t faint praise). Originally released as the B-side to the 7-in picture disc version of Out of Control’s Pet Shop Boys-assisted The Loving Kind, fans demanded a proper version was released, the resulting minor kerfuffle being covered in the Sun. In the end, the song was released properly on 2009’s The Singles Box Set and all was right with the world. Before becoming Girls Aloud’s best B-side, Memory of You was Japan, a song created in 2004 by Higgins and members of Xenomania under the alias Cadence and sung by Fame Academy alumnus Louise Griffiths. With some lyrical tweaking from the band, and an updated production that dials down the poppers for something more sultry, the finished version mainly features Nicola (who’d later release a solo version) and Kimberley, a fact that led to the News of the World incorrectly referring to it as “an underground tune” they’d secretly recorded outside of Girls Aloud. Thankfully the song – a squelchy synth-lead ode to dreamily remembering past loves with a grade-A chorus – was 100% worth all the tabloid excitement.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Girls Aloud’s Memory of You.