Stealth wealth is a noble idea, but as Calvin Klein – the American designer who turned underwear into a status symbol, and by proxy, its wearers into sex symbols – once said: “The only way to advertise is by not focusing on the product.” And lo, the logoed underwear was born.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hintnaus from the Calvin Klein Advertising Archives. Photograph: Bruce Weber/Calvin KleinKlein didn’t invent it it, but he certainly owned it, and never has the season-by-season rhythm of fashion been so tested than it has been by Calvin Klein’s perennially popular underwear which, according to Selfridges, has been a consistent bestseller for the last 25 years that shows no signs of abating. Jo Hunt, head of buying for womenswear at Asos, says it has seen “a rise in the branded slogan or logo, or ‘slogo’” over the past 18 months, and cites Calvin Klein (among other “authentic American brands”) as key to this shift. And in high fashion, an entire photoshoot in the current issue of Vogue stars Mica Arganaraz in a pair of Calvin Klein pants.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Wahlberg. Photograph: Herb Ritts / Calvin KleinThongs, boxers, briefs, going commando; they’ve all come and gone like whispers, but Calvin Klein pants, briefs and boxers, and now bras and swimwear in womenswear, remain the resolute king of underwear. The success is arguably down the jacquard waistband, and a mix of great product and smart marketing. The original Calvin Klein campaign image – a 1982 Bruce Weber shot of Olympian Tomás Hintnaus lying on a hot roof – might have been less about logo and more about flesh, but it sanctioned the idea that underwear was more than underwear. It was designed to be seen, conferred status and wealth, and was totemic of its wearer’s tribe (from metrosexual, to lad to hip-hop to mass-market.  Robert Johnston, fashion director at GQ, says the waistband logic is sound, and is fundamental to the brand’s success: “If you spend money, you want people to know it. Wearing it, as people do, above the waistband, is a stamp of approval … a sign that you feel confident.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Calvin Klein intense power thong, £21.00 at Asos. Photograph: Calvin KleinThe advertising campaign has always been minimal, black and white, starring big names and has been relentless in its pursuit of aspiration. But this doesn’t explain the longevity. Other brands with the same prowess make overtly-branded underwear – Tommy Hilfiger, Armani – while other, newer brands have mimicked the monochromatic branding (most recently Ivy Park). The most recent campaign – up-skirt shots, overt innuendo – went viral. So too did a campaign that focused on personalities and their relationship with #MyCalvins. Sam Diss, a style writer who wore it in the 1990s, may have the answers: “It gave you a taste of being Mark Wahlberg without the talent or the hours in the gym,” he says. Diss still wears it now, through a sense of nostalgia, and says the look is enduring as it transcends fashion: “In a decade with no real original aesthetic, it remains a much-needed piece of easy iconography to latch on to.”