It might be hard to believe, but there was once a time when an order for a negroni at the average watering hole would have been met with a stare of blank incomprehension. In 2002, for example, bartender Toby Cecchini could write in the New York Times that “the negroni remains a relative stranger on [America’s] shores”. (Around the time he wrote that sentence, the “it” drink in America was the cosmopolitan, a cocktail that Cecchini himself played a large role in popularising.) Now, of course, things are a little different: it’s hard to go out for a drink in any of the world’s major cities without stumbling across someone clutching a ruby-red negroni.What happened to drag the negroni from obscurity into A-list cocktail stardom? A decade and a half ago, the negroni would hardly have seemed like the drink most likely to succeed: Campari was a relatively recondite ingredient outside of Italy; gin was deeply uncool compared to its more glamorous sibling, vodka; and sweet vermouth was something that most bars would happily leave open on the back bar to moulder. Simply smashing: how to invent your own top-notch cocktail Thankfully, tastes change with the times. Gin became cool again thanks in part to the dedicated work of the marketing team behind Bombay Sapphire, which helped transform the spirit’s image from the chosen tipple of fusty British dowagers. Freed from the tyranny of the excessively suave and flavourless, drinkers slowly found themselves won over by Campari’s more challenging bitter flavours. And as for sweet vermouth – have you visited a liquor store recently? It sometimes feels as though everyone and their dog has recently released a new small-batch vermouth.All of these changes wouldn’t have happened without the creation of a global community of bartenders and cocktail nerds via the internet – a phenomenon recounted in detail in Robert Simonson’s recent book A Proper Drink. As this community expanded, the creation of digital archives of formerly inaccessible material helped its members gain a deeper understanding of the history of bartending, with immediately tangible results.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An aviation cocktail with its distinctive sky blue colour. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoAs an example: the first time I ever ordered an aviation (at Brisbane’s the Bowery, circa 2005), I was given a pale white mixture of gin, lemon juice, and maraschino liqueur, shaken – pretty much the drink as it appears in Harry Craddock’s The Savoy Cocktail Book (1930). Within a few years, however, when I ordered that same drink would it more often than not come out a pale purple or blue. By then it had become common knowledge amongst the cocktail cognoscenti that Craddock’s version of the drink was a prohibition-era perversion of the original, which first appeared in Hugo Ensslin’s more obscure little 1916 book Recipes for Mixed Drinks. Craddock had, you see, neglected to include the requisite dashes of crème de violette, an ingredient that gives the drink its proper sky-blue colour (and hence – as far as anyone can tell – its name).While the craft cocktail movement has been good to both the negroni and the aviation – as well as a smattering of other cocktails pulled from near-oblivion, such as the last word and the pegu club – it hasn’t bestowed its favours entirely evenly. There are a host of absolutely delicious cocktails that can be found in the pages of old bartending manuals – helpfully digitised and freely distributed online thanks to initiatives such as the EUVS vintage cocktail book archive – that haven’t yet widely taken off, but deserve to find a wider audience. Here are three of my personal favourites.1. Chrysanthemum Harry Craddock, author of the aforementioned Savoy Cocktail Book, writes that the Chrysanthemum cocktail is “well-known and very popular in the American Bar of the SS Europa.” Unfortunately for the chrysanthemum, the American Bar of the SS Europa – a German cruise ship built in 1928 which would be captured and turned into a US troop carrier during the second world war – may well be the only place this beguiling little drink has ever truly been popular. Like the aviation, the recipe for this concoction can be traced back to Ensslin’s Recipes for Mixed Drinks, which places it as one of the last, late-blooming flowers of pre-prohibition mixology. Both its understated elegance and the legal challenges faced by one of its ingredients, absinthe, would make it an obscurity throughout the second half of the twentieth century.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benectine liqueur, a key ingredient in a chrysanthemum. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoIf ever there was a time ripe for rediscovering the joys of this concoction, though, it’s right now. Drinkers are turning towards cocktails that are lighter and lower in alcohol content – and the fact that the chrysanthemum is made on a base of dry vermouth means that it has about the same alcoholic punch as a glass of wine. Absinthe, the ingredient that gives the drink much of its charm, is no longer either demonised or valorised as a spirit that leads to madness and hallucinations, but is rather seen as an indispensable part of the modern bartender’s toolkit. And Bénédictine, which gives the drink its herbal complexity, is experiencing something of a revival alongside other strongly herbaceous liqueurs such as chartreuse. Your nearest bar may or may not be able to make one for you, but it’s a doddle to make one at home, provided you have access to the ingredients and a little dasher bottle with which to dispense the absinthe.Make it at home: Chrysanthemum60 ml dry vermouth (preferably Noilly Prat)30 ml BénédictineThree dashes absintheBuild all ingredients in a mixing glass. Add ice and stir to chill. Strain into a chilled cocktail coupe and garnish with a twist of orange peel.Pair with a TV show: Such a delicate and refined tipple was doomed by the passage of prohibition – a subject explored in depth in HBO’s Boardwalk Empire.2. DunhillHow much does a drink’s name matter? Yes, yes, we all know that line from the Bard: “A rose by any other name would smell as sweet”. Easy for Juliet to say, though: Shakespeare’s Romeo didn’t share his name with a well-known and rather daggy brand of cigarettes. It’s a tougher sell for a bar to move a drink named the Dunhill – a fact I found out the hard way when I put this drink on a cocktail list and watched as the other drinks ran rings around its sales. The fact that this unfortunately-named drink also contains a hefty portion of cream sherry – an ingredient unable to shake its reputation as grandmother’s tipple even with the recent swell of interest in drier styles of sherry such as fino and manzanilla – probably doesn’t help, either.Get past the name and the cream sherry, though, and you’ll discover a wonderful paradox of a drink: one that manages to be simultaneously sweet and savoury, rich and lean, nutty and herbaceous. For best results, use a high-quality cream sherry, such as the Lustau East India Solera – as recommended by Talia Baiocchi in her 2014 book, Sherry, and from whom this recipe is adapted.Make it at home: Dunhill30 ml cream sherry (preferably Lustau East India Solera)30 ml gin30 ml dry vermouth10 ml orange liqueurTwo dashes absintheBuild all ingredients in a mixing glass. Add ice and stir to chill. Strain into a tumbler and add ice. Garnish with a twist of lemon peel and (optionally) a green olive on a skewer. Pair with a film: The Guadalquivir Marshes, a stone’s throw from the sherry region of southern Spain, are the setting for Alberto Rodríguez’s brooding 2014 thriller Marshland (La Isla Mínima).3. Army and navy Unlike the other two cocktails presented here, the army and navy’s history is a little more opaque. To the best of my knowledge, the recipe first appears in print in David Embury’s 1948 book The Fine Art of Mixing Drinks – although Embury clearly got his recipe from another source, because he considers the version he presents “horrible”. As for the name, I can only guess. Perhaps it has something to do with the Army and Navy Club in Washington DC – which also happens to be the club that first popularised the daiquiri in America. While the club’s members did like a daiquiri, it was hardly their only choice of beverage: in a 1984 New York Times article about the demolition of the original Army and Navy Club building, Charles J Graham, the club’s then-general manager, is quoted as saying his members “drink anything”.Whatever its origins, this drink owes its survival to its cheerful simplicity – it’s really just a plain old gin sour with orgeat, a French almond-based syrup used heavily in tiki drinks, in place of the usual sugar syrup. Some recipes call for bitters, and others don’t, but I prefer the extra complexity that the bitters endow. It’s worth searching for a high-quality orgeat for this drink, or making your own at home – cheap orgeat tastes overwhelmingly of fake marzipan.Make it at home: Army and navy60 ml gin15 ml lemon juice15 ml orgeatTwo dashes aromatic bitters (optional)Love cocktails? Here are five bottles your liquor cabinet can't do without Build all ingredients in a shaker. Add ice and shake to chill. Strain into a chilled cocktail coupe. Leave ungarnished, as is traditional, or garnish with a twist of lemon zest.Pair with a book: This drink’s slightly goofy, oddball charm and military background seem tailor-made to sip alongside Kurt Vonnegut’s acidly satirical second world war novel, Slaughterhouse-Five. 