Arriving home late one weekend recently after a long train journey, fuelled by bad sandwiches and coffee, I realised I felt thirsty, but it wasn’t for water – I needed vegetables. As soon as I got in, I sliced up a head of purple-green sprout tops and a carrot, steamed them and ate them doused in olive oil, relishing each forkful. I felt restored.We are not supposed to hunger for vegetables, which may be half our difficulty with them. When scientists at the School of Public Health at Imperial College London said that 10 portions of fruit and vegetables (adding up to 800g), rather than five a day, is the optimum amount to prevent premature death, the news was greeted with immediate derision. Many opined that five were already hard enough to force down without adding five more. Others made some variation on the joke of whether red wine, chocolate or crisps could count as part of our new #10aday. The implication was that no one could ever enjoy greens for their own sake.We do seem collectively to have a problem with vegetables in the UK. In response to the news, many observed, rightly, that it is ridiculous to expect someone on a low income to buy 10 separate fancy fruits and vegetables a day. Life on a minimum wage does not easily stretch to those minuscule tubs of pomegranate seeds at £1.25 a portion. Then again, plenty who could easily afford five or 10 a day still don’t do it.According to Imperial’s study, some of the greatest benefits in terms of cancer prevention came not from fashionable khaki-coloured smoothies or exorbitant imported peeled watermelon, but from plain apples, pears and green cruciferous vegetables, such as cabbage, which are some of the cheapest around, as well as being local to Britain. A supermarket Savoy cabbage, which may weigh close to 800g, the equivalent of a whole day’s 10 portions, costs just 69p. For most of us, the greatest obstacle is not the price, but the fact that we just don’t want to eat it.The five-a-day campaign – first launched in 2003 – has been a spectacular failure. I have never met a British schoolchild who hadn’t heard of the slogan, yet as of 2013, just 16% of British children ate five or more portions of fruit and veg a day. There are signs that even the government does not really believe that the British population will ever adopt a vegetable-eating habit of our own free will. We are endlessly told to eat more veg, but no one in government has invested either in farming more veg or in trying to make us like it more.Rachel Roddy’s recipe for minestrone soup with regional variations | A kitchen in Rome From 1985 to 2014, the amount of UK land given over to growing fruit and veg actually declined by 27%. A briefing paper last year by Tim Lang, professor of food policy at City University, argued that Defra should be looking at agriculture through a “health lens”. As things stand, if the British population were to follow the five-a-day advice – never mind 10 – our farmers wouldn’t be able to meet demand and we would have to import yet more green beans from Kenya or lettuce from Spain, which, apart from adding to air miles, just never tastes as good as a local, fresh bundle of Fenland celery or Herefordshire asparagus.Pleasure, curiously, has seldom been part of UK food policy, least of all on fruit and vegetables. The NHS five-a-day advice focuses more on reassuring us that tinned veg still “count” as part of the total than on encouraging a love of really delicious fresh ones. Yet the countries who consume the most greens are places where vegetables are seen as not just healthy but joyous.As wealthy countries go, South Korea has low obesity levels and has always eaten masses of vegetables. An NCBI study shows the average veg and fruit consumption in 2009 was roughly 440g per person – nearly twice the amount we consume in the UK. But, unlike us, South Korea has a food culture in which vegetables are beloved by all sectors of society. A Korean meal is not complete without kimchi – pungent fermented cabbage – and in rural areas as many as 300 different types of vegetables are eaten with relish. Local government in South Korea consciously worked to protect the traditional diet by promoting delicious dishes that use locally grown vegetables.Maybe this level of vegetable-love could never be recreated in Britain. But stranger things have happened. Already, thanks to the veg-centric recipes of Ottolenghi and others, sales of cauliflower and kale are up, suggesting that pockets of the population are developing a taste for brassicas again. Eating 800g of vegetables and fruits a day only sounds impossible (budget aside) if you think that vegetables have to be choked down under duress.We weren’t always so veg-phobic in Britain. Back in the 1850s, according to one witness, working-class Londoners came back from the Saturday afternoon markets laden with “greens in straggling bunches, onions in arm-long strings, peas and beans and scarlet runners, if they be in season”. No one told these Londoners to eat up their veg. They bought them because they were cheap and tasted sweet.Bee Wilson is a food writer and author. Her latest book is First Bite: How We Learn to Eat (Fourth Estate)Look out for more easy ways to get your “10 veg a day” in Cook this Saturday. 