While researching his new vlogging mockumentary Pls Like, comic Liam Williams discovered a new side to himself: a side to the self-loathing Yorkshireman that actively enjoys Joe Wicks. “You just do 15 minutes of different exercises and he shouts encouraging things at you,” Williams says of his new guru the Body Coach. “He’s got this understated matey tone, which seems quite annoying but actually he’s quite measured. I found him a nice presence.”If even Williams – a “critically lauded but commercially unsuccessful comedian” (his words) known for acerbic, existential comedy – can be swayed by peppy fitness vloggers, we are all surely doomed. What was once a DIY movement for those wishing to share NutriBullet recipes has become a cultural phenomenon. Vloggers fill the screens of millions worldwide, and can now earn more than actors, musicians and TV personalities: British vlogger Zoella reportedly makes £50,000 per month through brand endorsements, and last year Forbes estimated that PewDiePie (arguably the world’s most popular vlogger, with 50 million subscribers) was worth $15m.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘This fat spits like a bitch!’ … Pls Like’s fitness and nutrition expert Olly Wicks.Williams’s respect for Wicks does not extend to the entire vlogging community, however. Pls Like, his new BBC3 comedy, mocks the industry’s superficiality and tragic characters on the periphery of stardom. The show centres around Williams’s down-and-out sad lad who enters a competition to win £10,000. To get the cash, he must become a vlogging sensation – which he does, when his drunken, self-flagellating videos under the name Vloggy McVlogface go viral. But his manager James Wirm, played by Tim Key, refuses to hand over the prize money until he learns how to become an online superstar – and Williams is soon up to his neck in the murky world of YouTube celebrity. He gets trained by inane and imbecilic vloggers, such as fitness and nutrition expert Olly Wicks (sample quote: “Quick disclaimer guys: you should probably put a T-shirt on for this one – this fat spits like a bitch!”), Cypriot grime MC Bombzy, scathing beauty specialist ChloeSass and the tooth-achingly sweet yet slightly tortured couple Millipede and Charlie South (supercouple nickname Chillipede) – characters based on Zoella and her boyfriend Alfie Deyes. As he attempts to fit in with this new tribe, Williams’s face is scorched by corrosive moisturiser during a beauty tutorial, he finds himself patronised by clean-eater Polly Sprong (“I wasn’t breastfed, I was given kale”), dresses up as a bluebottle for prank vlogger Drexl, and makes a wellness app full of motivational Nietzsche quotes. Although far less jaded and ferocious, it is the sharpest satire of fame and modern media since Nathan Barley.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Forced to dress up as a bluebottle … Williams (with the tigers Miley and Cyrus) in Pls Like. Photograph: BBCWilliams admits he was fairly ignorant about “nascent social media stuff” but watched hundreds of videos to swot up. He also did some research at Summer in the City – an annual three-day event for YouTube content creators and users. “I went along expecting hysterical crowds, shrieking and fainting and stuff, but it was quite decorous,” he says. “People were largely thoughtful, polite teenagers and a lot of them were there with their parents. The parents were generally baffled but found the whole world quite wholesome. Whereas a celebrity is almost divinely superior to you, a vlogger is like your mate or sibling.”Though few comic stars have spawned from the medium – Miranda Sings, Jonathan Pie, Lilly Singh and Bo Burnham being YouTube’s best-known – the earnest tweeness of many vloggers makes it ripe for parody. Tash and Ellie’s Mum’s the Word, David Earl’s Steve Cumberland series and Phoebe Walsh’s Healthy Hattie are recent vlog satires that have emerged online. But for a certain demographic, says Williams, there remains a reticence to adopt this style of expression.“People our age are a few years too old to really get YouTube and Snapchat and stuff. A lot of the hostility people like me have about YouTubers is a sense that we have missed the boat. That’s why we are quick to say there can’t possibly be any artistic quality or greater social purpose to this thing.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I might feel like a bit of a sausage’ … Tim Key on vlogging.Key puts it down to personality rather than age. “The bottom line is I might feel like a bit of a sausage,” he says. “That’s what these guys have, that lack of self-consciousness. It’s the most natural thing in the world for them, and that’s what makes it, in the right hands, such a pure medium.”Could he have harnessed it? “It wouldn’t be a bad ‘platform’ for my stuff, just doing poetry down the barrel of a camera,” he adds. “My agent and I used to say the word vlog to one another a lot a couple of years ago. She kept using the phrase, ‘It’s the future’. I think we were both joking, but she might not have been. I certainly have no snootiness about it, just technologically it might be a stretch. And I’d be a bit shy.”Pls Like should be cathartic for those who feel excluded by this new media’s popularity. But for the vloggers themselves, it may cut too close to the bone. “We wanted to use some footage at Summer in the City, but they had a look at the show and said no,” Williams explains. “They also said they think vloggers are not going to like this … there was a sense that it wouldn’t be cool.”For now, Williams remains infatuated with a yoga vlogger called Adriene and Wicks’s morning ab-blasters, of course. After all, the bad guy he has created is the snake-like talent manager rather than the harmless, self-starting YouTubers themselves. “I warmed to vloggers a lot. I’m really intrigued to see how the medium develops as fans get older. What will they be like when Zoella is 40? Will you just always have a vlogger in the corner of every room? Will they be ever-present? Maybe it’s a dystopian vision, but I don’t think it’s a fad.”• Pls Like is on BBC3 weekly from Saturday 11 February.