We live in a world of plural identities – and Wales is no exception. I live in Caernarfon. The young man who runs the mobile phone shop is Indian, the guy from the Baptist church is from Tennessee, my children’s swimming instructor was Chinese. But what makes this different to other parts of Britain is that we all speak Welsh.So, the first and most obvious thing to say about Welsh literary identity is that it’s mediated through two languages. Readers of this site will undoubtedly be familiar with Dylan Thomas and RS Thomas, Gillian Clarke and Owen Sheers. They are less likely to be familiar with the works of Caradog Prichard, Caryl Lewis or Menna Elfyn.The same point could be made about Irish and Scottish writers, yet the Welsh-language literary scene is far more vibrant than its equivalents in Irish and Scots Gaelic. To an extent, that’s a question of numbers. Far more people use Welsh on a day-to-day basis than Irish or Scots Gaelic speakers use their language. The total adds up to around 650,000 people, if we include the Welsh diaspora. (If that doesn’t sound like a lot of people, it’s worth remembering that the population of Iceland is less than half that number, and Icelandic literature is thriving).But there’s a buzz in the world of Welsh language writing, old traditions infused with a new energy. Welsh poetry has retained its social function to a greater extent than in other parts of Britain and Ireland, with weddings, funerals and birthdays more likely to be marked by poems in Welsh. This links us to the earliest Welsh poetry from 1,500 years ago, praising the generosity of chieftains in life and the bravery of warriors in death. Welsh poetry is still valued as entertainment, too; one of the longest-running programmes on national radio is the Talwrn (Cockpit), a knockout competition for teams of poets. And as any visitor to the Eisteddfod knows, we like to make a show of crowning and chairing two of the best poets each year.The Welsh-language novel is enjoying a renaissance, too. When discussing literary identity it’s sometimes assumed that you need to be writing about particular subjects, or with a particular approach, in order to qualify. (Does it matter anyway, if it’s a good novel?) One of the paradoxes of writing in Welsh is that you can write about anything you like and sidestep these questions of identity. William Owen Roberts has set recent novels in Petrograd and Paris; Gareth F Williams’s Awst yn Anogia (August in Anogia) was set on a Greek island in wartime. Their work is international in scope; but the medium makes it Welsh, too.Interesting anomalies of identity can arise, however. One of the most exciting additions to the ranks of Welsh novelists in recent years is Jerry Hunter, an American who, like a latterday Joseph Conrad, was in his 20s before he learnt the language. His novel Ebargofiant (Oblivion) was a bold experiment in language itself, set in a post-apocalyptic future. Perhaps something similiarly innovative is needed to bring the two literatures of Wales closer together.As someone who writes in Welsh, my relationship with English is complicated – it feels like three languages in one. Firstly, it’s a Welsh language: English being the sole language of many of my fellow Welshmen and women, with its own structures and colour. Secondly, it’s an international language, a means to share ideas with millions across the world. But, thirdly, it’s also a colonial language; and one that still poses a threat to the future of Welsh.In his masterly analysis of the two literatures of Wales, Corresponding Cultures, critic M Wynn Thomas stated: “Before Wales can fully know itself for what it is, it must confront, acknowledge and carefully consider its bilateral character.” As the next national poet of Wales, I will continue to grapple with that challenge, as I help promote writing in both languages and respond through my own work in Welsh. This country has been dealing with issues of integration since before the industrial revolution – and who knows, perhaps we have experiences we should share in both languages, and on both sides of Offa’s Dyke?Ifor ap Glyn has been named National Poet of Wales by Literature Wales. To find out more about the literature of Wales, see Visit Wales