At about 7.15 on Monday evening an anxious face appeared at my kitchen window and asked if I was all right. My neighbours (poor things) do not listen to The Archers or they would have known that the commotion they heard was my response to evidence being given by Kirsty Miller at the trial of Helen Titchener.The Archers trial: verdicts from the counsellor, the lawyer and the prison expert Helen is in the dock for the attempted murder of her controlling husband, Rob. “Well,” said Kirsty, her voice shaking with anger, and not withstanding the fact she was actually appearing for the prosecution, “I’m telling you that Rob Titchener is the worst kind of abuser, because he doesn’t leave bruises.” At which point I yelled “YES!” and thumped the kitchen table really, really hard. Hence the neighbourly check.The fictional Helen’s neighbours were conspicuously absent during her years in Blossom Hill Cottage, but they can hardly be blamed. The coercive and controlling abuse she suffered is, for the most part, distinguished by being undistinguished – the details so ordinary, so mundane that even she couldn’t see what she was worried about, much less explain it.In fact, as Helen became more cut off from family and friends she worried only about herself. Any facts she thought she knew were essentially her husband’s and mother-in-law’s propaganda, manipulated and turned around to make her doubt her own judgment and, eventually, sanity.The introduction of new laws, and The Archers, have done much to raise the profile of this kind of abuse, but it remains largely misunderstood. Given its chimerical nature, how would you know what to guard against, or whether you’re already in a relationship of this type? It is, after all, very different to the beast we think we know – the one that comes with bruises and broken bones. These recognised, more traditional signs of domestic violence are conspicuously absent.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An everyday story of country folk? ‘The introduction of new laws, and The Archers, have done much to raise the profile of this kind of abuse.’ Photograph: BBCThat is the main reason nobody asks if all is well: because there is very little evidence to suggest it isn’t. If anyone does ask, you generally lie. This is what Helen did, and no one (except Kirsty) had a clue what she was going through. It’s not that you’re actually told to lie. You do it because it’s easier than telling the truth. And, like Helen, by the time the lies start, you won’t have a firm grasp on what the truth is anyway.Becoming a good liar is a big part of your defence, although by doing so you’re actually colluding with your abuser. It is something he will invariably use against you, although he’s the reason you do it. It’s all part of the pattern. You find yourself doing it all the time. ‘I can’t live without you' is the biggest lie of all. It will probably be used to bait the trap You bale out halfway through an evening with friends on the barely believable pretext of the washing machine exploding because you’ve checked your phone and found 36 missed calls together with a dozen texts and a handful of voicemail messages, all asking the same thing: where are you/who are you with/when are you coming home? He will protest that he does this because he worries, he cares, and he can’t live without you. Those are his lies. I say “he”, by the way, because that is my experience.“I can’t live without you” is the biggest lie of all. It will probably be used to bait the trap. If you feel yourself being swept off your feet, and it’s all just a little bit too full-on, be careful and listen to your gut. This is especially important if you’ve just come out of a relationship, are bereaved, or are generally having a terrible time and feeling vulnerable.In my case, it was all of the above. My guard was down and I ignored the clues. By the time he had gone through my wardrobe, chucked out what he didn’t like and bought me new clothes, it was too late. Within two months he had coaxed me into seeing things entirely from his point of view. But when you try to explain why it’s wrong, you sound ungrateful or mad.The Archers storyline: Have you been affected by domestic violence? The Archers summed it up very neatly when Helen gave evidence, saying: “Rob told me what I could eat, what I could wear, even where I would have my baby.”In any relationship there will be criticism, nitpicking and rows – but they are not relentless, like this. To be told your handwriting shows you’re “mentally unstable”, or “You breathe wrong”, to not be allowed to manage your own finances, or to leave a job where you are miserably unhappy, with the command: “You will stay” – these things are not normal, and they are not love. You owe it to yourself, and everyone who cares about you, to get out. Go quickly, quietly and efficiently. Don’t be pulled back by promises to change, by apologies or threats. Stay gone.I stayed ​gone. It was years ago but it still colours my life. Last weekend I was again asking my oldest friend about some of my behaviour at the time: “Was that normal?” “No,” she said, with a patient smile. She’s used to it.