The capitalist model is under attack on all sides. Yet while there is appetite for change, not even the Occupy movement has come up with a coherent, alternative model. So can capitalism be reformed to operate in the service of society?At Oxfam, where I was chief executive for 12 years, we believed that the private sector has the ability to help people out of poverty, for example through the creation of jobs or by purchasing products from farmers at a fair price. However, I also saw more than my fair share of unethical behaviour from the private sector in developing countries. Sometimes this was partly due to lack of regulation. Indeed, sometimes governments were prepared to condone or even encourage poor standards to keep a company in the country. Nevertheless, it was shocking to experience the lack of concern about actions that would have been seen as inappropriate in the companies’ home markets.A couple of examples stand out in my memory: in 2006 a trademark dispute emerged between Starbucks and Ethiopia over the company’s attempt to use the names of certain Ethiopian villages on their coffee packaging without paying the communities or government; in 2001 the pharmaceutical industry took the South African government to court when it wanted to import affordable generic versions of drugs for HIV/Aids.Beyond capitalism and socialism: could a new economic approach save the planet? Such exploitative practices continue today. The most egregious examples have been in so-called land grabs, where companies have taken land in parts of Africa as well as countries such as Cambodia, Guatemala without consent from the communities concerned and without providing compensation. In a number of cases, governments have been complicit or even encouraged this, arguing that the people have no legal tenure, though they may have had longstanding traditional land rights. This is not solely about the private sector in developing countries. Many blame the financial sector for causing the 2008 financial crisis and provoking the subsequent austerity regimes. There continue to be demonstrations in many countries with a strong feeling that it is the poor and “squeezed” middle class having to cope while the underlying capitalist system does not change. The rich get richer, the extremes of inequality grow across the globe.The anger grows with stories of tax avoidance, the salaries of chief executives and incidents like the recent VW emissions debacle. It is hardly surprising that each year Edelman’s Trust Barometer shows extremely low trust in the private sector across the world.You would think this situation would become untenable, after all, the private sector is given a licence to operate by society. In the short term, though, the problems seem huge and ordinary people can feel powerless to influence the system.But public pressure on companies or governments has the potential to bring about significant change. In the Starbucks and Ethiopian villages case, for example, consumers in the US and Europe boycotted the multinational, which ultimately negotiated with the Ethiopian government.There is also the issue of morality. Some company leaders undoubtedly want to do the right thing. No doubt that’s what many of their employees and potential new recruits want too. As head of a Cambridge college I hear from many students that they are uneasy about working in the private sector because of low ethical standards. One student reported to me that at the recruitment drive of a major global company the recruiter had said “we don’t do anything illegal; you may think what we do is immoral, but we make a lot of money”. That was enough to stop her applying. Companies can be pressured into change by what employees and potential employees think of them.To get the widespread reform we need, we have to take a holistic view. It is all very well asking companies to behave better but they are in a system which they believe, rightly or wrongly, constrains them. Forget your dreams and follow the money if you want to help the world Investors are enormously influential, demanding short-term profits which encourage chief executives to take their eyes off the sustainability – and therefore profitability – of the company for the long term. Some companies have challenged this. Unilever, for example, does not issue quarterly results. Likewise there are examples where investors have acted to influence companies positively. In the HIV/Aids-pharmaceutical example it was investors who put pressure on companies to change as they did not want to be seen siding with companies allowing millions to die when drugs were available. There is still, however, a long way to go before investors systematically back the reforms needed, such as adhering to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment.One of the biggest issues globally in our capitalist system is the role of labour. With so many jobs going because of automation, how can we provide employment and meaningful work to the growing population? Currently half of the world is under 25 and 1.8 billion people are between 16 and 25. This could easily lead to a race to the bottom in wages and large numbers of disenfranchised young people. Alongside climate change, I believe this is the biggest challenge we face globally. But just think of the imagination, innovation and commitment to change all these young people can bring.I am left with the conviction that capitalism must be reformed to be the force for good in society. It requires companies to have a focus on positive purpose and ethical behaviour. It needs a long term approach by investors, ethically demanding consumers and public pressure on governments. We all have power in our different roles and perhaps above all we need to make sure our young people are prepared to get in there and make a difference in the way the private sector works, for the sake of their own futures.Murray Edwards College, Cambridge, recently launched Capitalism on the Edge, a two-year series of lectures exploring capitalism from different perspectives