It’s every parent’s nightmare: discovering that this year’s must-have toy is impossible to get in time for Christmas. Well, get ready for the Hatchimal, an interactive bird that hatches itself out of an egg. Retailers are warning that demand is unprecedented and stock running low worldwide.Apart from a few branches of Argos, all the major high street toy retailers in the UK have sold out of this year’s dream toy and it is changing hands on eBay and Amazon for more than £40 over its recommended retail price of £59.99.The hype has been building up all year, with a viral marketing campaign that kept the species and appearance of the toy inside the egg a secret until the global launch last month. Since then, the fluffy chicks have flown off the shelves, with some retailers in the US reportedly selling out within 24 hours.“If you see a Hatchimal, buy it because you might not see it two days later,” said Frédérique Tutt, global toy industry analyst for the NPD Group.Top toys for Christmas 2016: where to find the best deals in-store and online National chains Toys “R” Us, Smyths and The Entertainer are expecting new arrivals of stock before Christmas, but say purchases are likely to be rationed to one per customer. Most retailers are no longer accepting pre-orders.Gary Grant, founder of The Entertainer, said there was almost a riot at one of his stores last week following a small delivery of stock. “I’ve been selling toys for 35 years. Even with Teletubbies and Cabbage Patch Kids, I’ve never known anything quite like Hatchimals. It’s unprecedented. People will drive 100 miles for one.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two boys play with a Hatchimal. Photograph: DreamToysHatchimal owners cannot choose the colour of the hidden toy they are purchasing, and must cuddle, rub, pat and tap the egg for 20 to 25 minutes before the chick inside feels nurtured enough to hatch. The Hatchimal will then gradually peck its way out of its hard plastic egg and reveal itself.“You get to anticipate that moment of surprise,” said James Martin, of manufacturer Spin Master. He says the idea of a hatching toy was sparked by the craze for “unboxing” – viral videos of toys being opened. “But this isn’t you opening a toy. This is a toy coming out to you. There’s a magic and a wonder in that moment. It’s the whole idea of the beginning of a life, which we’ve been able to deliver in a toy.”Once hatched, the Hatchimal will learn to walk, talk and play games, as long as it is showered with love and affection. In this way, it is remarkably similar to a Tamagotchi, the digital pet that hatched from a virtual egg and became one of the biggest toy fads of the 1990s.Unlike other interactive toy pets, such as the Furby, there is no accompanying app. “We wanted it to be a very real experience,” said Martin. “No screens.”Top toys for Christmas 2016 - in pictures Despite receiving positive feedback from retailers before the launch and increasing its manufacturing capacity by more than 50%, Spin Master admits it has underestimated demand. It has now started dispatching Hatchimals by air instead of sea, to cut a month from delivery times.Martin said parents should not panic. “There is stock heading to all the retailers around the world on a weekly basis until January. We are not playing a numbers game. We have no desire to keep the product from kids.”However, Siobhan Freegard, founder of video parenting site Channel Mum, has seen it all before: “ ’Tis the season to make money – and no one is more aware of that than toy retailers. Stores screaming that it’s sold out and tales of the toys selling for double or triple the cost on eBay are simply part of the sales drive.”She advised parents to relax and wait for the next batch of Hatchimals to arrive in the shops, rather than buying them at inflated prices online. “It only encourages eBay and Gumtree sellers to snap up all available stock.“Stores may be showing Hatchimals as sold out at the moment, but as we’ve seen with previous festive must-haves, stocks almost always arrive just before Christmas to keep children happy – and the tills jingling.”Festive essentialsOther Christmas dream toys that were near-impossible to find:Rubik’s Cube, 1980The fastest-selling puzzles of all time gave rise to two medical conditions: cubist’s thumb and Rubik’s wrist. More than 350 million have been sold.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Cabbage Patch Doll. Photograph: Gary Childs/Rex/ShutterstockCabbage Patch Kids, 1983 (left)Demand for these soft-sculptured, 40cm dolls led to Cabbage Patch riots, with shoppers fighting in the aisles.Teletubbies, 1997More than a million Tinky Winky, Laa-Laa, Dipsy and Po dolls from the hit BBC series were sold between September and December. Large stores sold out of stock within hours of delivery.Thunderbirds’ Tracy Island, 2000The BBC’s autumn relaunch of the show triggered a buying frenzy. The manufacturer blamed low production levels on a shortage of microchips caused by demand for mobile phones.Snow Glow Elsa, 2014This £35 doll, which sings the song Let It Go from the Disney film Frozen ad nauseam, was sold out by November.