The eco swap is the most bite-sized of all sustainable lifestyle actions. You simply replace items in your diet with those that have less impact, in terms of CO2 emissions, land use and change of land use – normally deforestation, and, critically, lower water consumption.The Soil Association recommends carefully pinpointed swaps this month (it’s national awareness month for organic produce this September). If 24 million households that buy yogurt swapped to organic (even just once), almost 2,000 more cows would be free to range on clover-rich organic pastures. (Its standards do not allow cattle to be reared full time in giant sheds). And if every carrot buyer switched to organic, that would result in 50% more wildlife and 30% more species of wildlife on pesticide-free farms.Meanwhile the Carbon Trust has crunched data to show that spreading your toast with a margarine is more sustainable than block butter. This study factors in supply chain wastage, aggregates the use of irrigated farmland and apportions historical responsibility for deforestation from vegetable oils.The upshot is that if everyone was to commit to just one butter-free day a week, we could each offset an entire year’s iPhone usage. I find it exciting, but then I might have strange tastes. Unfortunately my tastes also dictate that I’d rather go without using a smart phone because I really like butter.That’s always an issue with swaps. However compelling the evidence, sometimes you can’t activate the swap. So, think of it as presenting an opportunity to rid breakfast time of old staples, like fruit jam in favour of Buko Organic’s coconut version.The big picture: edible insects      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bugging out: Daniel Stott of the Bug Boys. Photograph: David McHugh/Brighton PicturesThe UK has had to wait a while for a response to 2013’s UN report, Edible Insects: Future Prospects for Food and Feed Security, but now the Bug Boys have set up at FIELD in Brighton producing protein-rich cricket flour. Co-founder Daniel Stott used to raise crickets for his pet lizard, now he’s investigating their potential to feed the planet and hopes to infiltrate the British diet.Well dressed: woollen trainers      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bleat of foot: a woollen trainer. Photograph: Scott DarlingLet’s not pretend the wool industry is entirely saintly. Peta has published a series of troubling reports on the mistreatment of sheep. But the Campaign for Wool continues to make a coherent sustainability argument for using wool and has upgraded animal welfare standards. Upgrading the fibres in your wardrobe from synthetics, especially plastics, delivers an eco hit, but we need enough products from responsible supply chains. Look out for wool trainers, offering farm-to-foot certification and outpacing plastic and leather pretenders in terms of ethics.These are the best I’ve seen so far: Allbirds wool runners, for men and women in cool, soft merino wool. The insoles are made from castor bean oil.Email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle