 The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Final Cut: She Destroys (Hilltop Mix)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Killer opener to get those bodies moving. Jeff Mills techno-funk meets cold European electronics. Nothing quite like this one; coldwave soul music at its finest.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor An-i: Kino i (Dub)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest People always go insane when they hear this track. Regardless of what time it is, you can see their brains melting on the dance floor.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Tzusing: Nonlinear War   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I often think: wait, this is way too weird to play right now, but I’ll give it a go. It always works!The track I wish i’d signed to my label Borusiade: Jeopardy    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I like to speed this one up and extend it as it’s too short! Her vocals are otherworldly. They infiltrate a smoky dance floor perfectly. “I know I heard your voice/ Like a phantom frequency wrapped in the news of a dying world.” Chilling.The track I think has been unfairly slept on this year Ctrls: Onto Them   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I like to slow this one down a bit. Industrial techno at its sexiest.The track that got me out of bed this morning Levon Vincent: Man Or Mistress   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One of those bouncy uplifting masterpieces that I never get tired of. Great to listen to in broad daylight while cleaning the house or equally in a dark, dingy club.The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding Deux: Golden Dreams   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Chicago house meets French new wave. This lovely duo were in a league of their own. They made gorgeous, danceable synthpop, suitable for all occasions.The track that should have been a crossover hit Room 506 (AKA Ancient Methods): Drop Out   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Absolute killer track that I would play on repeat if I could. The Nico sample is to die for. The song is a bit techno, a bit electro, a bit no wave and totally downtown New York circa 1981.The track I’d play at my funeral The Sisterhood: Giving Ground   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As a teenager, I wore a black leather jacket with the Sisters Of Mercy painted on the back of it. The Sisterhood was a side project of theirs, a collaboration between the main member Andrew Eldritch and Alan Vega from Suicide. I think this is the perfect parting anthem, bringing it back to my youth.Veronica Vasicka plays XOYO, EC2, Saturday