Does New York need a new temple to electronic music? Michael Satsky, club promoter and former enfant terrible of New York nightlife, believes so.“Dance music is a religious experience. It connects people,” says Satsky, 37. “But I don’t know where to go to a proper techno show in New York, and I’m not interested in consistently going to Brooklyn. Manhattan has everything to offer already, so why not have the best music hall in Manhattan?”Satsky is confident he’s built it in Flash Factory, a new 10,000-square-foot club that opens in Chelsea on Saturday. Located on a subdued stretch of West 28th Street, a few blocks from the site of his rambunctious former venue, Stereo – a preferred mid-2000s haunt of Mark Ronson and Lindsay Lohan – Flash Factory will program live and experimental techno artists and occasional indie-rock shows. Its décor pulls from abandoned churches and 70s disco boîtes, pairing stained glass windows and wooden crosses with metallic wallpaper and laser-cut archways. (A pristine white stone altar, salvaged from an old church in the Bronx, is repurposed as the central DJ deck.) Conspicuously absent are the megawatt LED displays and VIP alcoves typical to rave rooms; a large circus tent envelops the side bar platform, a nod to the whimsical art culture of Burning Man.“It’s a festival experience on a nightly basis here,” says Satsky, low-spoken and clad in running gear, during a preview tour of the site. He and his partner, Brian Gefter, spent two-and-a-half years renovating the room, once the controversial club Shadow. They also co-founded the Meatpacking District club/lounge Provocateur. “There’s so much integrity behind what we’re doing here. Usually the music fits into the venue; we built the venue for the music.”As Satsky is aware, he needs to lure back the dance disciples who have migrated to Brooklyn – and that may be a tough sell. Williamsburg and Bushwick have seen a surge of dedicated clubs open in the past four years (Output, Verboten, Bossa Nova Civic Club, the Brooklyn Mirage), plus scores more of the scrappy warehouse parties and small-room raves that anchor dance culture. The sprawling megaclubs that remain in Manhattan are largely clustered in Hell’s Kitchen and the Meatpacking District, and they cater more to the money-minting DJs of EDM and well-heeled young professionals. A handful of mainstream dance spaces (Marquee, 1 Oak) exist on the outskirts of Chelsea.François K, the French house music pioneer who cut his teeth at Studio 54 and The Paradise Garage, admits that his adopted hometown has turned prohibitive.“It’s very hard for clubs in Manhattan that are trying to stay in the underground ethos. It’s OK for bottle service, because they generate much higher revenue, selling $600 bottles of vodka to people for the privilege of sitting down on a special couch,” says the DJ-producer, 62, with a chuckle. He has maintained a weekly residency at Cielo in the Meatpacking District since 2003. “But it’s not impossible, just more challenging to make a venue run here. I miss them, to be honest; I welcome a new one.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Studio 54: the heyday of Manhattan nightlife. Photograph: Images/REX ShutterstockZev Eisenberg, half of the prominent house and techno DJ duo Wolf + Lamb, is more skeptical that Flash Factory will seduce electro fans to ever-gentrifying Chelsea. “It takes a lot to move a scene from one place to another,” said Eisenberg, 33. He and his partner, Gadi Mizrahi, have hosted regular parties in Brooklyn since 2003. “We have a lot of trouble bringing people into the city and we’re from New York. We’ll never get our Brooklyn crowd to the city; they just won’t go there.”At the moment, no other large club openings have been announced in Chelsea. But if Satsky can lure a loyal following there, it wouldn’t be the first time the neighbourhood has bounced back. Chelsea has been an intermittently hip nightlife destination over the past 50 years – first in the 1970s, when its growing gay scene flocked to disco dancefloors, then in the 1990s with the flashy clubs Tunnel and Twilo. However, most of its liveliest venues shuttered after 1997, when then-mayor Rudy Giuliani began enforcing the “cabaret law”, a Jazz Age-era mandate that bans dancing in nightclubs and bars that do not hold both cabaret and liquor licenses. Despite Chelsea’s current dearth of clubbing options, Satsky may be prescient to build there, says William Landrum, the events manager of Space Ibiza New York, a Hell’s Kitchen EDM megaclub that opened in 2014.“There’s been a migration to Brooklyn, for sure, though a lot of us see that as a bubble ready to burst,” says Landrum, 35, who previously worked at the Manhattan hotspots Crobar and Pacha. “Rising rents there are making club owners a bit wary about whether they’re going to be there in the future.”He adds that Satsky’s limited programming choices may prove a greater barrier than geography. “If they’re indeed going for an experimental model of music, it’s going to be a very rough ride from the get-go,” he says. “We’ve done those types of things but in the smaller rooms. I wish them success but I can’t foresee that working in a wildly successful way.”Still, booking marquee talent is no guarantee of longevity in Manhattan. After 10 years of operations, the leading Hell’s Kitchen club Pacha New York will close its doors on Saturday night, in an unintentional bit of symmetry to Flash Factory’s opening. Eddie Dean, president of Pacha New York, stresses that the end of his venue is “voluntary”, but posits himself in the minority for it.“If you pay close attention to history, nightclubs end badly 99 out of 100 times. They go out of business, go bankrupt, have problems with authorities,” says Dean, 52. “Everyone wants value when they go out, but it’s really hard to give value in a market like New York City because the cost of doing business, the base cost of opening your doors, is so expensive. It’s a pretty tough formula.”For now, Flash Factory has some strong techno artists on its dance card; the New York tech-house duo the Martinez Brothers headlines its opening party, and Satsky says the underground scene stars Luciano and Eric Prydz are confirmed for future dates. Success, he says, will be making Flash Factory a “sanctuary” for these artists and their followers.  “We see this music as our punk, our rock for our generation,” says Satsky. “That has no timetable on it. This is a marathon for us.”