Tot trumps: kids' TV shows that are secretly brilliant Phillip Schofield’s giant swinging conkers. Chris Tarrant’s big wet buckets. Emma Forbes’s sticky-fingered baking. “We don’t do duvets.” Andi Peters’s nu-rave jumpers. Gunge, phone-ins, custard pies and the Phantom Flan Flinger. A small furry sidekick called Gordon with a hand up his arse. Sometimes, describing Saturday morning children’s television feels more like pushing open the door to a particularly niche sex club than a world of family-friendly entertainment.And yet, during its heyday – from the birth of Tiswas in 1974 to the dying embers of CD:UK in 2006 – more than two million children (not to mention thousands of hungover adults, red-eyed students and gently mewling parents) would sit down to stare happily at the chaos of a three-hour live broadcast every weekend. The catchphrases echoed around every school dinner hall; the phone-ins decorated every household’s telephone bill. Saturday morning kids’ TV taught us to question adults, to mock authority, to see through marketing hype, to laugh at the surreal and the ridiculous, and to appreciate a well-delivered punchline.However, turn on the television at the weekend now and you are more likely to see a member of the Olympic rowing team cooking up a perfect soufflé against the white marble and herb baskets of Saturday Kitchen than anything resembling classic children’s telly. As the Manic Street Preachers’ Nicky Wire put it to journalist Sylvia Patterson: “Saturday morning kids’ TV has been ruined by pious, pontificating, revolting chefs”, putting the topic up there with unregulated banking and zero-hours contracts as things that are wrong with modern Britain.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chris Tarrant on the set of Tiswas. Photograph: ITVWhat happened to the programmes that could unite the playground? Is it just because the kids have moved to YouTube? What are we all doing with our hangovers? Event television, from Game Of Thrones to The Great British Bake Off, continues to set the cultural agenda, so why have we let this chunk of scheduling slip through our fingers?Partly, of course, it was the looming spectre of regulation; “focus groups and health and safety”, as Jamie East, broadcaster and son of Tiswas co-presenter Trevor East, puts it. “Chris Tarrant used to pick kids up by their ears,” laughs Jamie down the phone from the studio at Virgin Radio. “You’d never ever be allowed to do that now – rightly or wrongly. But back then you’d have hundreds of kids, queuing up in their best clothes, just to have buckets of water thrown over them and be locked in a cage.”East was himself a star of children’s television before he was out of short trousers. “They used to get me on Tiswas all the time when I was a baby,” he recalls. “They called me Porky Pig; I was really fat, had no hair and would be in nothing but a pair of dungarees. At Easter time once, they all started throwing hot cross buns at me. But I was only 18 months old and nobody was holding me up, so when one hit me full in the face I fell right off the desk, on live telly.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Noel Edmonds and Keith Chegwin presenting Multi Coloured Swap Shop. Photograph: BBCHearing East describe the benevolent mayhem of Tiswas – where men on the studio floor had the sole job of whipping up entire bathtubs full of custard and presenters frequently went off-script – it’s almost inconceivable that there were so few serious incidents. Instead, shows were allowed to develop their own anarchic, identities.“Because they were two or three hours long, the programmes had room to breathe, which meant you could do a whole range of things and establish a whole range of characters,” explains Lorraine Heggessey, who ran Children’s BBC from 1997 to 1999. “Whether we’re talking about [Multi-Coloured] Swap Shop or Live & Kicking, that time did enable the production team and presenters to create whole new worlds.”In the beginning, these shows grew organically out of the need to fill continuity time between cartoons. Unable to rely on swish, computer-generated idents, a child-centric format all of its own emerged, whose styles and presenters changed according to contemporary trends. The high-energy, primary-colour chaos of Tiswas and Multi-Coloured Swap Shop in the 1970s gave way to the surreal comedy and celebrity bafflement of Going Live! and Live & Kicking in the 80s and 90s, to be replaced at the turn of the millennium by high-shine, hangover-oriented music and entertainment shows like SM:TV Live, CD:UK and T4. By the early 00s, Saturday morning television was talking as much to knowing students as to excitable children.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Trevor Neal and Simon Hickson, AKA Trevor and Simon. Photograph: Photoshot/Getty ImagesJamie Theakston and Zoë Ball: how we made Live & Kicking Two of the best-loved characters to rise up from Going Live! and Live & Kicking were sketch duo Trevor and Simon, who now produce the podcast Strangeness In Space. Despite often taking advantage of the live TV format to introduce some spontaneous mayhem of their own, this Gilbert and George of children’s TV only remember getting seriously reprimanded once. “We were asked to do a promotion for a Blue Peter appeal, raising money for incubators in hospitals, which was a worthy thing,” says Simon Hickson. “But halfway through we went off-script and Trev just looked down the camera and said: ‘Shouldn’t the government be doing this?’ We got really told off for that.”Luckily they got away with it, and went on to inject the fast-paced, surreal nature of 1980s alternative comedy into mainstream TV culture. “We studied drama at Manchester University just after Rik Mayall and Ben Elton. The punk rock of comedy had begun and we seemed to have a direct line to it,” says Trevor Neal. Many of its big names made it on to Saturday kids’ TV, too. “Vic Reeves was our ‘Lone Yodeller’,” says Neal of one stint on L&K, “and he brought with him a hat made of a coathanger with shoes dangling off it.”Trevor and Simon’s segments brought with them a frisson of live comedy’s danger. “We’d often talk the sketches through with the guests in the coffee bar backstage but it was still semi-improvised,” says Neal. “The Stock Aitken and Waterman people knew they were on to promote themselves and so would very happily do pretty much anything. When Kylie first came on, we put her in a cardboard box, packed straw round her, closed the lid and said she’d been hibernating over the summer.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Andre gets gunked on CITV’s Ministry Of Mayhem, 2004. Photograph: REX/ShutterstockSadly, as both the stars and the show got more famous, guests became more cautious. “A few years later, when she came on again, Kylie wouldn’t put a kettle on her head in case it ruined her hairstyle,” adds Neal. “And Jason Donovan wouldn’t put a dog costume on over his head, so sang Hound Dog just wearing it up to his shoulders.”The decreasing number of pop stars willing to make fools of themselves on national television was perhaps another factor in the decline of the traditional Saturday morning kids’ show. The rise of the internet and tablets, YouTube-only children’s programmes, more tightly regulated advertising to kids and the big-budget appearance of shows such as Strictly Come Dancing or Doctor Who, aimed at the whole family rather than just children, must also have had an effect. But the major cause, according to Heggessey, was simply the explosion of multi-channel television. “The first successful channels directly marketed at a particular demographic were children’s channels,” she explains. “Suddenly, children’s programmes existed on their own channels, which were on all the time, so children’s blocks on the main channels started to feel a bit redundant.”“Last time I checked, there were 26 designated children’s channels, including Cartoon Network, Nickelodeon and the Disney Channel, and they all have licensing agreements with the makers of cartoons,” says Jamie Rickers, the one-time presenter and producer behind CITV show Toonattik. “Because of that, you have a smaller chunk of the market share, and therefore can’t demand the same amount of advertising revenue. That means you have less money for production, so can’t afford the studio time.” As a result, he says, producers have to rely on cutting deals with shows like Pokémon, who then use their television time to sell toys and merchandise.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The presenters of Scrambled. Photograph: ITVThe heritage of gunge and games may have lived on into the millennium via shows such as the BBC’s Dick & Dom In Da Bungalow, and its lineage may still be just about visible in CITV’s current kids’ offering Scrambled. But the joyful, egalitarian mayhem that grew out of the continuity announcements between children’s shows has largely slipped off our screens like custard off an eyelash – and Saturday TV is all the worse for it. Never again will we see freckle-nosed pop stars review a new CD while sitting in a fibreglass tree, beside two grown men dressed as gnomes, as Vic Reeves in a pair of false teeth pretends to water the astroturf before them. Once it was formative as well as fun; giving us our sense of humour, encouraging us to take the piss out of grown-ups and treating pop stars with a great levelling irreverence and hinting at a moral code of fairness. In the current social media landscape of strict celeb branding, it’s hard to imagine getting that back.In the end, the kids’ TV we knew and loved became too cautious, too slick, too obviously commercial. We swapped silly for commercial tie-ins, we switched gunge for garnish, mayhem for marinades, bacchanalia for baking, and something valuable has been lost; the mid-point between a live kindergarten broadcast and a surreal kind of comedy.“Saturday mornings use to be a three-hour rollercoaster,” says Hickson, recalling the good times.“You could do what you liked, really,” concludes East, “because there were no rules.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Phantom Flan Flinger from Tiswas. Photograph: ITV/REX/ShutterstockFlantastic! Four of the best Saturday morning telly regularsThe Phantom Flan Flinger (Tiswas)The sinister figure, dressed in a black cape and hood (pictured), who would stalk the Tiswas set pushing custard pies into the faces of presenters and guests alike, was unmasked in 2011 as Birmingham taxi driver Benjamin “Benny” Mills.Singing Corner (Going Live!)Like the very worst tofu-eating, guitar-strumming cliche, Trevor and Simon’s piss take of humble folk musicians (“Swing your pants!”) was a sketch that rung painfully true to children of hippy-generation parents.Wonkey Donkey (SM:TV)A simple phone-in quiz spun into comedy gold by Ant and Dec’s increasing frustration at their callers’ inability to name a rhyming catchphrase represented by a stuffed toy.Bonk & Boob (Wide Awake Club) A dull spelling quiz enlivened by gratuitous innuendo: when a contestant didn’t know a word they had to say “bonk”; get one wrong, and the hooter went “boob”. File under: you couldn’t get away with that now.