There are a few nights each year that are magical in Poland. Midsummer Solstice, or wianki (meaning “wreaths”) is loved most of all – a time of fortune-telling and fire-jumping, when girls put wreaths in a river and watch how they weave their way downstream. If the wreath spins, some say you will be married within the year.As a little girl, I wasn’t too concerned about getting married, yet placing my wreath in the river delighted me every time. I imagined that I was a water spirit – a Brzeginka – picking wild flowers to make my enchanted wreath and watching my future be cast in the water. It was a stark contrast to the realities of the day. In 1980s Poland, communism and paranoia reigned supreme, but we always had nature, family, friends and – even though there was often nothing in the shops – plenty of food, and always something to celebrate.My family spent a lot of time sourcing ingredients, then cooking and eating them. Food was all we had, really, and we shared everything; it was a time that really shaped my view of Polish cuisine. When I moved to England, aged eight, it was this atmosphere of togetherness, along with the myriad Slavic dishes I’d grown up with, that I longed for most. Cooking became a way to remember my Poland. Even now, when I cook or eat certain dishes, I remember the Slavic myths my grandmas used to talk about as if they were completely normal parts of everyday life, as natural as the sun rising in the east.The smell of yeasty buns baking in the oven reminds me of the story of the old crone Baba Yaga, who would produce them plentifully to entice children into her hut in the woods, where some say she guarded the door to the underworld. There is nothing quite like that glorious smell, which makes the dingiest of places seem like paradise. My grandma Ziuta used to make these buns in her small flat on the ninth floor of a concrete tower block. The lift was dank and grim, but I could smell those buns as soon as I stepped outside it: joy.The ancient Slavs believed that you were most likely to meet a Brzeginka water spirit at dawn or dusk during autumn or spring, wandering barefoot in the dewy fields or sitting in the birch trees. Back in pre-Christian times, they were called upon through song, always by women, to invoke the rains that would water the plains of eastern Europe and bring new life to the earth: a vital part of the farming ritual.In my London kitchen, I try to evoke my upbringing, continuing the magic for my baby daughter. For thousands of years, Polish women have ground grains into flour, baked breads and buns, and picked poppies from the fields. They say that wheat and poppy seeds are what the first Polish cakes were made from. Though each region and family has its own recipes for celebrations, poppy seeds are ubiquitous, and are always eaten sweet. In some areas, they make kutia at Christmas – a grain and poppy-seed pudding, sweetened with honey and dried fruit – but, mostly, we just bake poppy seed cakes and buns.Polish cooking champions seasonal fruit and, at this time of year, plums are everywhere. We roll them into sweet potato dumplings called knedle and bake them into cakes where they are the star of the show, like the ones you find here. When my grandma Halinka baked this recipe’s predecessor – her special szarlotka – she would put a thin layer of meringue on top. In my version, this layer has expanded into massive vanilla meringue clouds, which make it particularly dreamy: perfect for a fairytale gathering.Poppy seed-filled bunsYou can buy these yeasty buns, jagodzianki, from any bakery in Poland, stuffed full of crushed bilberries. You can also fill them with other berries or, for a true taste of Poland, fill them with masa makowa – a sweet poppy-seed mixture that you make the night before. You can also buy it from any Polish shop – it comes in a big tin, and for ease I suggest you do this, but you can make it yourself. It takes a little bit of time, but it’s not difficult.Makes 6 125ml milk25g fresh yeast, at room temperature100g caster sugar250g plain flourA pinch of salt1 egg80g unsalted butter, melted For the filling200g poppy seeds1 tsp almond extract50-60g presoaked raisins and50-60g presoaked flaked almondsFor the topping2 tbsp plain flour1 tbsp caster sugar20g cold butter, cubed1 egg yolk1 tbsp milk1 If you’re making the masa makova filling yourself, start the night before. Take 200g poppy seeds and cover them with boiling water. Simmer for 2-3 minutes then turn the heat off and leave to stand overnight. 2 Warm the milk for the dough slightly and combine with fresh yeast and 1 tsp of the sugar. Mix, then cover with a tea towel and leave in a warm place for 10 minutes to grow (if it doesn’t grow then start again).3 Sieve the flour for the dough into a large bowl and add the rest of the sugar and a pinch of salt. Make a groove in the middle and pour the yeasty milk into it. Combine.4 Add the egg and the melted butter. Mix with your hands until it comes away from them in a ball. Return this to the bowl, cover and leave in a warm place to rise for about 1½ hours, or even longer, if possible. It should grow considerably.5 If you are making your own masa makowa, blend the soaked poppy seeds until they start to produce poppy seed milk (this takes a while). Finally, add 1 tsp almond extract and the raisins and flaked almonds.6 Now, make the topping. Put the flour, sugar and butter in a bowl and work it all together with your fingers until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs.7 Combine the egg with 1 tbsp milk and whisk it gently together. Set aside next to the crumble mixture. Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4.8 When the dough is ready, knead it on a floured surface for about 5 minutes, then roll it out into a baguette shape and cut into 6 or 7 slices.9 Flatten each slice and put about 1 tbsp of masa makowa filling in the middle. Seal it and roll into a bun shape. Don’t worry if the filling tries to escape. It’s much better to have the buns bursting than not have enough filling. In fact, expect them to burst a little.10 Put the buns on a tray lined with baking paper. Brush each one with the egg-and-milk mixture and top with plenty of crumble. Bake for 25-30 minutes, or until they are golden and your entire house smells divine.Plum and vanilla meringue cakes (main picture)You will need to prepare three 10-12cm cake tins by greasing them with butter.Makes 3 cakes250g plain flour1 tbsp soured cream350g caster sugar 60g butter, plus more for greasing2 egg yolks½ tsp baking powder1 vanilla pod500g plums, pitted and chopped2 tbsp cornflour3 egg whites1 To make the dough, combine the flour, cream, 125g of the sugar, the butter, egg yolks and baking powder. Use your hands to bring the dough together on a floured surface.2 Take a handful of dough, put it in a plastic bag and put it in the freezer. Put the remainder of the dough in another light plastic bag in the fridge for at least 20 minutes. Put your chopped plums in a large bowl.3 Remove the seeds from the vanilla pod. Reserve half of them. Mix the other half of the vanilla seeds with 100g of the sugar and cover the plums with it. Add the cornflour to the bowl with the plums. Make sure it’s all thoroughly combined.4 Beat the egg whites until stiff, then add 125g sugar and the reserved vanilla seeds, and continue beating until the mixture thickens further.5 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Butter your cake tins. Take the dough from the fridge and roll it out in the plastic bag. Take it out of the bag, roll it out and use the cake tins to cut circles out of it. Line the cake tins with the dough circles and press into the edges.6 Blind-bake for about 10 minutes. Add the plum mixture on top of the dough and spread evenly. Bake for another 10 minutes at the same temperature, then remove.7 Lower the oven temperature to 160C/325F/gas mark 3. Top the plums with the egg white mixture. Take your smaller ball of dough from the freezer and grate that over the tops using a cheese grater.8 Put your cakes back in the oven for the final 30 minutes, until the toppings are golden. Allow them to cool before serving.Zuza Zak is the author of Polska: New Polish Cooking (Quadrille, 2016)@zuzazakcooks