While on holiday in New York City a few years ago, I arranged to meet a friend for lunch. “Let’s go for Mexican food in Manhattan,” he said. “I need to get the new DJ /rupture CD, and you can only buy it if you go in person to this tiny taco shop in the East Village.” I burst out laughing. For a digital-age pioneer like DJ /rupture (real name Jace Clayton), it seemed like a contrarian, counter-intuitive move. So we went along to Tacos Zaragoza, ate hearty homemade stews at the bodega’s solitary table, then bought copies of the mix CD, a compilation of below-the-radar cumbia tracks made in the US, fizzing with energy (and now, available online).It was just one of Clayton’s playful projects dedicated to celebrating the world’s music in its glorious variety – not in snobbish opposition to western pop, but rubbing up happily alongside it. After more than 15 years of touring, writing his Mudd Up blog and digitally enhanced globe-trotting, Clayton has published his first book, Uproot: Travels in 21st-Century Music and Digital Culture. It is a tome as sprawling and excitable in its subject matter as one of the mixes that launched his career as a DJ 15 years ago. We discover the subversive power of Autotune when used by Berber folk singers, the new technologically enhanced languages (musical and otherwise) springing up in Egypt, why Celine Dion and Michael Bolton are gods to Jamaican reggae fans, and Clayton’s attempts to get big business to fund his “Sufi plug-ins” project, free computer music software using north African soundbanks. Going to get a taco, hanging out with the slightly eccentric shop-owner – it’s all part of the music in some levelDJ/Rupture On the phone from a library in Manhattan, I remind Clayton about the taco shop cumbia project. “It was partially just internet burnout, but it was also a homage to the idea of a cumbia sonidero [host or MC],” he says. “For the infrastructure of the scene, going to get a taco, hanging out with the slightly eccentric shop-owner – it’s all part of the music in some level, so I thought let’s make it explicit.” Clayton explains cumbia as a real world peer-to-peer network, embedded in working-class Hispanic communities in the US and Latin America alike, mutating the sound every time it moves.Cumbia is in some respects exceptional, because it is relatively self-contained, uses the internet on its own terms, and seems uninterested in “crossing over” or creating stars – but it has acquired a similar global cult following to many other non-western genres in the internet era; just without the more faddish sporadic western interest shown to say K-pop (Gangnam Style is a very 21st-century phenomenon) or South African house (remember DJ Mujava’s Township Funk?). Clayton traces the ways the digital revolution has transformed the unfashionable idea of “world music” that was solidified in the 1980s.The term was coined when a group of 19 record label owners, journalists and radio DJs met in a north London pub and tried to name a genre category to help record shops sell the music – no one was finding it, buried in the jazz or folk sections. Until the 2000s, western gatekeepers were excessively powerful and decided what reached fans in Europe and North America – with an often-lamented, neo-colonial aspect to the “discovery” and fetishising of the music and its creators.For Clayton, the internet has transformed this arrangement, creating “world music 2.0” – making entire genres accessible at the click of a button, first via chat-rooms and file-sharing sites, and now YouTube or online shopping – but in some respects, the industry gatekeeping remains.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jace Clayton aka DJ /rupture. Photograph: Max Lakner“For me, the ‘2.0’ refers to all the crazy, slippery digital stuff you can access out there as an online listener,” he explains. “But once you get into the specifics of European or American tours, or the festival circuit, suddenly that same industry infrastructure, selection and contextualisation by a few people occurs. So you’re still told ‘This is the Saharan desert blues band that you must hear’ – as if there aren’t hundreds of different bands, doing hundreds of different things.”It’s a process that remains arbitrary and mysterious – Syrian dabke musician Omar Souleyman is a prime example: signed to world music label Sublime Frequencies, he has released several albums in the west, played Glastonbury and sold thousands of albums and concert tickets in Europe and the US – but Clayton is slightly baffled. “None of the dabke fans I’ve met have ever heard of him. I get most of my dabke in Arab music shops here in Brooklyn, and it’s crazy and interesting, all this weird stuff – but I’ve never seen Omar Souleyman’s CDs.”Clayton is not out to criticise Souleyman or his label, but observes that some of the same arbitrary cherry-picking processes remain in place from the pre-digital age; he tells the story of the Master Musicians of Jajouka, a traditional Berber group beloved across the west, first produced by Brian Jones in 1971, they also received visits and collaborations from Mick Jagger, Billy Corgan, Ornette Coleman, William Burroughs and Lee Ranaldo. And yet despite this fame, the group are “unknown a few towns over”, and their music is unfindable at local tape stalls. “It slowly dawned on me,” Clayton writes in Uproot, “that the music that got lauded within Morocco had virtually no overlap with the stuff successfully presented outside its borders.”Uproot’s strength is Clayton’s determination to look beyond the easy answers: he enthuses about the liberatory potential of the new connections, fusions and mutations encouraged by digital music, and globally available cheap software like FruityLoops, but is keen we shouldn’t overlook its limitations. “The first time I noticed this was back in 2002: I remember Kid606 saying to me, ‘Hey check out this music’, and it was just really bad, generic techno. I asked him ‘Why are you playing me this?’ and he said ‘Because it’s from Algeria!’. He’d picked it up in an obscure chat-room. And there was a moment of realisation where we both said, ‘Oh, they’re just using the same FruityLoops presets in Algeria’.” Living the Highlife: the global party scene taking world music into the future The same, he said, goes for remix apps for smartphones and tablets, which vastly constrain the possibilities of what a remix might be: “Just looking around, I’m slightly horrified, because it’s so minimal, the changes you can make: ‘press this button for ‘siren’, ‘press this button to change the backing beat to ‘rock’, it’s so limited.”Generally, Clayton is excited about the same things the music industry panics about, and the way even big stars like Kanye and Beyoncé are tinkering with old logic and protocols – “I want the giants to fall even faster,” he writes in Uproot, “so we can see what weird flowers start blooming in the spaces left vacant.” One of very few manifesto-style demands he makes is for technological innovators to find a way to compensate artists for the music they make – directly, and as fully as possible. “That came from looking into the huge cellphone banking boom in Africa,” he recalls. “It feels like the technology is almost in place, to allow that if someone makes a beat on their laptop, they could sell it on their phone, and get all the money for it, direct. It comes down to this basic thing – how to give, say, a weird Angolan techno producer their dues?”For Clayton, the threats to the old ways are mostly a litany of new opportunities – he describes the Egyptian genre sha3by (the 3 is not a typo – it’s Arabizi) as “antisentimental and ultralocal” – doesn’t that apply to all the music he loves? “Definitely, a lot of the stuff I talk about falls into that category. This sense that there’s nothing sentimental about the act of creation, but instead more generosity, and messiness. Let’s not be sentimental about musical history, and respect it too much: we’re not tied down to the past, we’re here now, let’s just make something and throw it out there.”Uproot: Travels in 21st Century Music and Digital Culture is out now via FSG