Billy Eichner is the comedian turning New York into one big gameshow. A fast-talking pop culture obsessive, his series Billy on the Street has become an internet hit. Its addictive clips capture him pacing the city’s sidewalks as he interrogates the public with pointless questions like: “Would Drew Barrymore like that?” and “Would you have sex with Paul Rudd?” Passers-by are usually flustered by the tall man breathlessly quizzing them. He, in return, rages at them for not knowing the right answers and whizzes on to the next person.It’s a simple, snappy premise that has picked up a celebrity following since it began in the US in 2011. Sometimes Billy gets them to join in, with Amy Poehler, Will Ferrell, Julianne Moore, Lena Dunham and, yes, Paul Rudd having been quizzed alongside the public. Eichner even managed to get Michelle Obama involved in a game with The Muppets’ Big Bird. “I like to take people and either celebrate their essence or turn it on its head,” he says down the phone from New York. Often the big names are subjected to quickfire round games such as “Santa’s Reindeer or Sex App?” (Sarah Jessica Parker), or the “Cash Cow” quiz, where the loser must milk a cow (Dunham). Occasionally the games get really big, like “Escape From Scientology”, an obstacle course that included a part where the contestant must “free the men who are stuck in John Travolta’s shed!” (cue an actual shed with people inside), or “Shondaland”, in which showrunner Shonda Rhimes’s entire production company was transformed into an assault course complete with a glass ceiling, ready to be smashed. Yet he assures us that there’s a small element of seriousness behind the silly, “or at least some satire of our celebrity obsession” when he introduces games like “What does Katy Perry’s cat care about?”.Often the A-list gets the answers wrong, which is also fun. When Tina Fey, in a lightning round called LaTina Fey, can’t name enough Latin celebrities, Eichner shouts at her, “Finally, something Tina Fey has failed at!” In on the joke, she couldn’t speak for laughter. Sometimes, though, his interactions don’t go to plan. The rapper Nas got very annoyed after being handed his trophy for winning “Media Mogul or Rabbi?”. The trophy was an empty birdcage. “You can’t be fuckin’ serious,” he said. “I’m out here on the streets answering these questions and this is my prize? I gotta go, man. This is wrong. There’s no fuckin’ bird!”Away from the street, Eichner has starred in Parks and Recreation, Difficult People and he appears in this summer’s Bad Neighbours sequel. But his sidewalkin’-talkin’ alter-ego is the perfect vehicle for his high-volume comedy. More than just a gameshow, Billy on the Street veers close to sketch comedy, with the public and his famous friends acting as unwitting stooges for his well-written jokes.Now, Eichner reveals what he would do if he were unleashed on the streets with world-famous Brits … Adele      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: GHNASSIA/SIPA/REX/ShutterstockAdele would be so much fun. She’s young and energetic and so beloved. She seems very sharp and self-deprecating too. You get the sense there’s a darkness there, and a dirty sense of humour. It would be fun to do something edgy and musical. We could give people on the street the chance to sing with her – not her own songs though, maybe from a musical like On Your Feet. It’s a Gloria Estefan jukebox musical. Adele can play Gloria.James Corden      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: CBS via Getty ImagesI love James Corden, he might actually do Billy on the Street. Like Adele, he’s a lot dirtier off camera than his TV persona might suggest. I wonder what would make him angry? I want to exploit his dark side, not the cuddly side. I need to ask him about Lesbian Vampire Killers. Maybe we could reboot that for Netflix. Everyone’s rebooting old films and shows, we could do that next. Daniel Craig      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Tiziana Fabi/AFP/Getty ImagesHe seems like a very serious guy. We’d need to make him ugly in some way. I like to take people and either celebrate their essence or turn it on its head. When you think Daniel Craig, you think extremely handsome and sexy. So we’d need to dirty him up. Either that or just throw him into a gay bar and see what happens. If they ever need a gay James Bond, then I’m the man for the job.Benedict Cumberbatch      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Jonathan Short/Invision/APBenedict Cumberbatch, what a name. I’d take him down to the subway and see if the average working class person gives a shit about Benedict Cumberbatch. There’s often a message to what we do, or at least some satire of our celebrity obsession, and that might be a good avenue for that. Kate Middleton      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: James WhatlingWell, I love her work. I bet there are New Yorkers who would need a minute to put a name to her face though. I’d put her in jeans and a T-shirt, line her up with some other women and see how many New Yorkers can spot the princess.Billy on the Street airs Tuesdays at 11.30pm on Comedy Central