When house music first shimmied out of Chicago and New York’s warehouse parties and across the globe, its repetitive electronic beats were alien and exciting. Often it was the case that their then-cutting edge production, along with the wizards who could tease them out of new-fangled machines, took centre stage. While vocalists and “proper” songwriting were as essential to house as claps and kick drums, it’s telling that more people today can name Roland’s 303 synth (the machine behind that distinctive squiggly acid sound) than can name the vocalist who sang Inner City’s hits Good Life and Big Fun.Eclair Fifi's favourite tracks Rinse FM DJ Clair Stirling is the kind of person who would remember that it was Paris Grey. Better known under her moniker of Eclair Fifi, Stirling is intent on spotlighting the forgotten voices of house by reissuing some lesser-known vocal house records. She’s starting with Never Let Go, an obscure Mickey Oliver track sung by Grey (under her alias Shanna Jae) from 1988. It burns with as much soul as it does production innovation, and Stirling hopes its reissue will allow a new generation to connect with the songwriting that sits at the core of classic house.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fifi fo fum: Eclair Fifi in 2016 Photograph: PR Company Handout“A lot of people fob off house lyrics as, ‘Oh they’re not proper songs,’” says Stirling. “But a lot of the Chicago stuff, you listen to it and it’s heart wrenching.” What’s more, she notes that the tunes of Chi-town’s house heyday have lost none of their relevance. “A song like, say, Joe Smooth’s Promised Land is a song we should all be listening to now – those lyrics couldn’t be any more current with the recent violence in the States. These are political songs, love songs, even songs about God.”Chicago goes big in tribute to 'godfather of house music' Frankie Knuckles Rather than reissue the main version of Never Let Go, Stirling has stripped back the production and put out the B-side’s sparse “drumapella” version. These renditions foreground the vocal by stripping out all instrumentation beyond a skeletal drum beat, and were originally made to encourage DJs to mix the vocals over other records in the club. Stirling enthuses that “they’re so powerful that they can stand alone”, though she has also commissioned new producers Aden, Strip Steve and Air Max ’97 to splice Grey’s vocal with “younger, current” beats.By elevating these ghostly drumapellas and removing the production’s synthetic cushion, Stirling is leaving the emotion to speak loudest. And in our modern pop landscape, where most dance vocals are squashed into Auto-tuned conformity, that proper emotion, so long denied, sounds more real than ever.Never Let Go is out now on LuckyMe