From Solomon Northrup’s 19th-century memoir about his years in captivity, Twelve Years a Slave, to classic novels such as Gulliver’s Travels and Madame Bovary, schools minister Nick Gibb is hoping to introduce secondary school pupils to a broad spectrum of literature “free from the constraints and analysis of public exams”.Gibb first mooted the idea in November, telling publishers that “I want every secondary school to have a stock of classics such as Great Expectations, Pride and Prejudice and Jane Eyre so that whole classes across the country can enjoy them together”, because “access to these wonderful novels shouldn’t be the preserve of the few”.Scholastic was the first publisher to meet his challenge, offering 26 classics to schools for £1.50 per copy. Now Penguin Classics has chosen 100 out-of-copyright titles, which it is making available to schools for the equivalent of £1 per copy, including books ranging from Homer’s Odyssey to Henry James’s ghost story The Turn of the Screw, and from Henry David Thoreau’s Walden to Joseph Conrad’s The Secret Agent.Publishers answer minister's call to offer schools cheap classics “Schools have to take the full set of 100 – they take the lot. The hope is that they will take a number of sets to have for informal reading in class. It’s about making sure there are more books available that people will feel they are entitled to pick up and browse,” said Simon Winder, publishing director of Penguin Classics. “It’s about the incredible importance of having books lying around, and getting away from the curriculum.”Winder said it had been a “crushing responsibility” to select the 100 titles Penguin is offering. “Obviously you need the Brontës and George Eliot and Charles Dickens, but the fun bit was trying to spread it as widely as possible. So there’s some Chinese and Japanese and Arabic writing in there, as well as different religious texts,” said Winder.The Department for Education said that Gibb “wants to encourage more secondary schools to read together as a whole class, ensuring all pupils leave school well read and with an appreciation of a wide range of authors, genres and texts”. The titles chosen by Penguin Classics are “intended to broaden the literature which pupils are exposed to and allow them to enjoy stories and authors which might otherwise be beyond their individual reading level”, it said.In a statement, Gibb welcomed Penguin’s initiative, and said he hoped the list would grow: “It is important that all pupils in secondary school are taught to read and enjoy challenging books from among the world’s greatest literature. The first few years of secondary education [are] an opportunity for pupils to be introduced to such literature, free from the constraints and analysis of public exams. But this is not the end of the debate, and I want this to be a springboard for discussion on the impact a great story can have on us all.”