The buzzFew films have raised expectations quite so headily as Damien Chazelle’s third feature. Right from its Oscars-launchpad premiere on the opening night of Venice (where Gravity and Birdman had both debuted in past years), this one was tipped for the top. Hollywood has predictably gone gaga over it; reviewers followed suit. On Sunday, it won seven Golden Globes, more than any other film ever. Were you suitably swooning after you saw it? Or does such buildup inevitably lead to an anticlimax once you’re actually sitting in front of it? The songs   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest La La Land’s tunes seem to be real ear-worms, judging by the amount of incidental humming you can hear. But how classic are they? How whipcrack are the lyrics? And which are your favourites? City of Stars is being pushed for the best original song Oscar, but have the producers missed a trick by not backing, say, Another Day of Sun or Someone in the Crowd? The dancingAre Stone and Gosling the new Rogers and Astaire? Were they even intending to be? Which moves had you tripping and which fell on their feet? The sizzling secrets of on-screen chemistry: from Dirty Dancing to La La Land The chemistryThe chemistry of Gosling and Stone – now on their third run round the block together – has been compared to that of golden age greats. Did they fizz for you? Or was the alchemy diminished from the Dirty Dancing heights of Crazy, Stupid, Love? The single takesThere are some absolute splashy crackers in La La Land – most notably the opening freeway number, complete with pan down to the meet cute, and the magic-hour tap banter after the party. Were you wowed or did you find the technique distracting?The disappearing sisterThe unhappy vanishing of Rosemarie DeWitt as Seb’s sister, who shares his opening scene but then never speaks again, has been the subject of some conspiracy theories. What happened? Did you spot vestiges of a larger performance that might have hit the cutting room floor? Did you miss her or were you pleased to see the back of her?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ryan Gosling on La La Land: ‘The world is quick to shame you for trying’The piano playingGosling spent three months intensively tickling the ivories in preparation for the shoot, leading to a lack of employment for hand doubles. Was it worth it? #LaLaLandSoWhite? The movie has come in for some backlash for what some see as the narrative of a white hero fighting to defend African-American culture. Is this fair? There is ethnic diversity in supporting roles throughout the movie, John Legend takes the main supporting role, and there’s a mixed crowd in the clubs. But it is Seb’s club, ultimately: is that a problem? JazzsplainingDo you have to love jazz to love La La Land? It can feel fairly non-negotiable, as per Seb’s lecture to Mia in the Lighthouse to cure her of her ignorance about the genre’s roots, brilliance and importance. How top-drawer is the improv jazz that he later plays? And how come his original compositions (City of Stars, for instance) aren’t actually that jazzy?The final splitDid the reasons for Seb and Mia’s separation feel plausible? Some have taken issue with whether they really needed to break up when she left for Paris, especially given the lengths he went to not only to prove his commitment but save her career. And when she returned, might it have been possible for them to give things another go? Or at least for them to have kept in touch? After all, it was hardly a vicious split, and she might have been curious to know about him opening his jazz club. Or is it simply the case that some relationships are transient and enabling rather than built to last?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  La La Land trailer: Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone star in musical movieLa La Land review – Gosling and Stone sparkle in a gorgeous musical romance The alternate endingWhat to make of the medley extravaganza that shows how the relationship might have panned out had Seb reacted differently after being fired, rejected Legend’s overtures, shown up to the play, and come along to Paris? It would have unfolded, it seems, pretty much identically to Mia’s relationship with her new, bland-but-nice husband: house, superstardom, baby. What conclusion can we draw from that? That all relationships are predestined to end the same way? Or that Seb and Mia could – and should – have made it work? The messageBoth La La Land and Whiplash are films concerned with what single-minded creative ambition does to your capacity to succeed – and your romantic ties. They suggest grit and an uncompromising approach are compulsory (Miles Teller’s character bleeding over the sticks; Mia gritting her teeth and getting back on the audition treadmill) – they also imply there’s something incompatible about lasting relationships and creative drive. Is this specific to showbiz? It is easy for lay-people to relate to? Can it be overcome? And how appealing a conundrum is it to explore over two-and-a-bit hours? 