“Jimmy doesn’t understand Chuck, and Chuck sure as hell doesn’t understand Jimmy,” Better Call Saul co-creator Peter Gould said on Saturday during the Saul Paleyfest panel at the Dolby Theater in Los Angeles. Gould was responding to a question about the state of the relationship between morally compromised protagonist Jimmy McGill (Bob Odenkirk) and his irascible older brother Chuck (Michael McKean). We had just watched episode five of season two, which airs on Monday on AMC in the US and in that episode, the relationship between Chuck and Jimmy continues to sour. What Gould and co-creator Vince Gilligan wanted to point out to the audience is that despite the viewer’s natural affinity for the future Saul Goodman, neither brother lacks culpability in the rivalry that dominates the overall narrative of the series.Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould on Better Call Saul: 'It could have been a huge flop' “Chuck is difficult, but so is Jimmy. They’re just different kinds of difficult,” Gould continues. Gould and Gilligan revealed that a major influence on the series when it was in the initial planning stages was the Terry Zwigoff documentary Crumb, which followed the eccentric artist Robert Crumb and his equally unique brother. Relationships between brothers, especially brothers with the diametrically opposed personalities of Jimmy and Chuck McGill, are never simple. It would be cruel to spoil much of tonight’s excellent episode, titled Rebecca, but I will say that it begins with a flashback to a time before Jimmy passed the bar and became a lawyer. McKean’s performance as Chuck in this long-ago timeframe is more confident and more assertive, but the one constant is his jealousy and the aforementioned lack of understanding. People love Jimmy. They find his lowbrow sense of humour and fast-talking ways charming. Chuck is dour, serious, intellectual and rational. One brother is motivated by pure instinct, the other by careful calculation. Thus far, we’ve only truly been privy to Jimmy’s perspective of their conflict. By the end of tonight’s episode, the picture broadens.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bob Odenkirk, Michael McKean and Rhea Seehorn on the Better Call Saul panel. Photograph: Rob Latour/Rex/ShutterstockUltimately, the goal is to turn Jimmy McGill into Saul Goodman, a transformation that will probably sever many of Jimmy’s relationships as seen on Better Call Saul – including Chuck and his girlfriend, Kim Wexler. According to Rhea Seehorn, who portrays Kim, there’s no reason to assume Kim is out of Jimmy’s life when he becomes Saul just because she wasn’t in Breaking Bad, but for her to surrender her morality to be with Saul would be a betrayal of both characters. Tonight’s episode contains a powerhouse performance from Seehorn, who embues Kim with a quiet dignity that is constantly being tested both by Jimmy and by the profession she’s chosen. In a way, her story is the most tragic, because she doesn’t have the gift of deception that her boyfriend can always fall back on. If Jimmy were to cling to Kim after becoming Saul, it would lessen the abjection he must go through to submerge himself fully into the underworld. Jimmy and Kim can’t last because Saul and Kim can’t either.That said, Gould, Gilligan, Seehorn, Odenkirk and the rest of the cast made it very clear that nothing is set in stone. “There is no master plan, other than to be interesting,” Gillian said. This allows them the latitude to make changes on the fly and to execute some of the more thrilling narrative fireworks that they pull off in tonight’s show. With the second season at the halfway mark, one can see the path to Saul getting shorter and the threads lining up with Breaking Bad. But what lies beyond what we already know is also of interest to the staff of Saul. The flashes of Saul’s life in the Cinnabon in Nebraska after the Breaking Bad finale in the first and second season premieres make Better Call Saul a prequel and a sequel, a narrative quirk that Gilligan teases might pay off eventually. “All bets are off once you get to Omaha,” he said with the smile of a man who knows he has his audience’s rapt attention for as long as he likes.