David Cameron was at the centre of a political storm in November, when an unnamed source suggested that the PM regularly marches around Number 10 saying: “We have got to get rid of all this green crap” – a statement that Downing Street was quick to say it “did not recognise”.But it might recognise it today, after Cameron's speech to the Federation of Small Businesses, which could have had “getting rid of the green crap” as its tagline, followed by “what else can we throw on the red tape bonfire while we're at it?” Cameron boasted of presiding over the “first Government in modern history to leave office with fewer regulations than when it entered,” before revealing plans to tear out vast chunks of the rule book that govern the size and quality of our new homes. He plans to cut around 90% of thousands of pages of “over-zealous rules”, reducing over a hundred “overlapping and confusing standards” for new homes to less than 10. The detail of precisely which standards are facing the axe has yet to be announced, but reports suggest it will include regulations that specify the minimum size of windows, as well as demands for on-site renewable energy sources and some councils' minimum room sizes. The Code for Sustainable Homes, the environmental assessment method for rating and certifying the performance of new homes, is also likely to be in the firing line. These reforms, the government claims, will save around £500 for every new home built – equating to £60m extra profit per year for the house-builders.The rationalisation of multiple conflicting guidelines might be welcomed, but the unstoppable thirst for spatial deregulation represents a worrying direction in a country that already boasts the smallest new-build homes in Europe – and some of the meanest postage-stamp window sizes found anywhere in the world. The average British home has shrunk by 40% in the last 80 years to only 76 sq m – compared with 115 sq m in the Netherlands and 137 sq m in Denmark. Even famously compact Japanese homes average at 92 sq m. National minimum space standards, common elsewhere in Europe, are what is needed – not carte blanche for developers to make homes even smaller than a London Tube carriage. Cameron's logic goes that reducing regulations will somehow “free up” benevolent house-builders to bring forth the long-awaited bounty of new homes, the provision of which has fallen to the lowest level since the 1920s. But red tape is not what is holding them back. Research has shown that house-builders are sitting on hundreds of thousands of plots of land that already have planning permission, a game of “land banking” that forces values into the stratosphere. In turn, these artificially inflated land prices lead to more units built on each site, meaning smaller homes with non-existent gardens and squeezing out any hope of design quality. The news has been greeted with fury by the UK Green Building Council. “The Prime Minister’s boasts of ‘slashing 80,000 pages’ of environmental guidance is utterly reprehensible,” said UK-GBC chief executive Paul King. “It is the same poisonous political rhetoric from Number 10, devaluing environmental regulation in a slash-and-burn manner. These words are not only damaging and irresponsible, but misrepresent the wishes of so many modern businesses, both large and small.” The announcement is the latest product of Cameron's “Red Tape Challenge”, a bizarre crowd-sourced exercise in deciding which regulations should be kicked out, Big Brother-style, along with his introduction of scorecards to show quite how many rules his government has managed to banish. It will only be when sifting through the ashes of the great policy bonfire, having presided over an era of the shoddiest house construction the UK has ever seen, that he might realise how useful some of that “green crap” was.