Natural World: Tiger Dynasty8pm, BBC2Beautiful four-year-old tiger Baghani is "the chosen one". One minute she's going about her business in India's Ranthambore National Park, the next she's drugged, captured and whisked away to start a new dynasty of tigers and help save the species from extinction. No pressure, then. Director S Nallamuthu follows her progress as she settles into her new home in Sariska, hooks up with hot-blooded male suitor Rajore and fights off poachers and leopards. His passion for tigers shines through with his encouraging commentary and he captures plenty of stunning close-up images along the way. Hannah VerdierMidsomer Murders8pm, ITV1When a headless horseman causes poor old Bentham DeQuetteville to drop off a roof like a conker, his aristo family couldn't give two hoots. "He smelled of boiled cabbage," sniffs Lady Isobel (Eleanor Bron), "and his death really hasn't increased his charm at all." As the ghostly equestrian continues to take scalps, suspicion naturally falls on these "total nut-jobs", still pursuing centuries-old feuds with their neighbours via English civil war re-enactments. An agreeable way to waste an evening. Ali CatterallThe Lying Game8pm, 5*If we didn't already suspect teenagers' lives were secretive and filled with questions of self-discovery, here's the show that actually makes that the plot, rather than the subtext. The deal is this: at some point in the past, two twin sisters are given up for adoption. One (Sutton) goes to a rich family, the other (Emma) to a poor one. Sutton and Emma have lately become pals via Skype and – long story short – Emma must "double" for Sutton while the latter investigates a lead into her real parents in LA. What follows is amusing Mean Girls-tastic stuff, all with a superior, sinister edge. John RobinsonThe Crusades9pm, BBC2Pious Louis IX was the "perfect crusader", a soldier-king who mortgaged France as he assembled a force to take east. And south to the Nile delta, because Louis's plan was to attack Islam's power base in Egypt. Things didn't go well, which gives Dr Thomas Asbridge his jumping off point for a consideration of how and why the Crusades ultimately failed. And it's important to remember that the Crusades did end, says Asbridge, rather than seeing them as part of an ongoing clash of civilisations. Jonathan WrightJonathan Meades On France9pm, BBC4France has always presented itself as hostile to American influence, with its cherished, jealously guarded sense of national identity. However, straying from the boulevards of the obvious, Meades exposes how much of France is a tatty architectural replication of America, from suburban sprawls to pseudo-50s diners to Frank Lloyd Wright-style architecture. Its sense of cultural autonomy is a delusion. As ever with Meades, the pleasure is the severe, acidic, erudite scorn with which he delivers his script to camera. David StubbsShackleton's Whisky9pm, National GeographicDue to the zero humidity and sub-zero temperature of polar conditions, a lot of the supplies left lying around by Antarctic and Arctic explorers over the past century are perfectly preserved. Several cases of whisky, specially blended for Ernest Shackleton, were found buried beneath a supply hut. This documentary charts one bottle's journey back to civilisation, where booze experts sniff and taste this precious historic tipple so they may replicate its mysterious blend for a taste of the past. Phelim O'Neill