Ten months since it finally receded, the foul brown floodwater that swilled knee-deep through Steve and Kay Wilton’s home for much of February has, it seems, left its mark on more than just their once-pristine 19th-century farmhouse.“To be honest,” says Kay, sitting in a cold, bare kitchen at a battered wooden table loaned by a neighbour, “by itself, the flood would have been a walk in the park. It’s what it’s done to us, the whole family, since. It’s devastated us.”I last met Steve with his son-in-law, Ross, in February. Even getting to the farmhouse had been a perilous affair then: you had first to make it as far as the village – Burrowbridge on the Somerset Levels – along sodden country lanes that wound their way through seas of muddy water. Then you had to slither along a treacherous towpath, scramble over huge pipes pumping unimaginable quantities of dirty floodwater into the heavily swollen river Parrett, and slide down the bank to the lane outside Steve’s home.  Steve Wilton with his son in law Ross survey the flood damage in February 2014. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianStanding in green rubber waders in a hastily emptied living room, thigh-deep in foul-smelling water, Steve, 56, had explained how he, his wife Kay, their daughter, her husband Ross, and their daughters now four and two, had moved in just weeks before, on 20 December.The family decided to pool their resources after Ross, 35, was offered a move to Somerset for his work; they had spent nearly a year looking for a home big enough for all of them, then Steve and Kay had sold their house in Kent and sunk the entire proceeds into this.Sitting in 18 acres, the brick-built farmhouse, dating back to 1830, had been their “dream home”, Steve, a painter and decorator, had told me. “We got on so well together. Kay and I could help out with the girls; it seemed like the ideal solution. A new life, for all of us.”Things didn’t turn out like that. Weeks into the disaster, their daughter separated from Ross and became estranged from the family. “One of the men who came to volunteer, to help people affected by the flooding, was a builder from not far away,” says Steve. Kay sighs, and steps in “Felicity went off with him. Ross is in a little rented place a few miles away. She won’t speak to anyone. We haven’t seen our granddaughters since April. Our family has been just … torn apart.”Nursing mugs of tea and talking, now, about all that has happened to them since, both Steve and Kay come close to tears. The family did all the right searches: the house had never once flooded in all the nearly 200 years it had been standing, and the Environment Agency assured them there was a one in a 100-year risk of their lower field – not the house – ending up under water. But then came the wettest January in 250 years.They stayed, first, with some kindly neighbours, then found a couple of empty holiday lets. By early March, the last of the water – it had risen in the end to almost two feet – had gone. Steve and Kay found a longer-term cottage to rent nearby, while Ross and his family moved into a mobile home in the garden, to oversee the clean-up. And, quite soon, that was when things started to fall apart.  The flooded kitchen in the Wiltons’ home in February 2014. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianBut besides the emotional upheaval involving their daughter and grandchildren, there is now real financial uncertainty. The insurance company would no longer pay for their rented accommodation, so Steve and Kay moved back into the farmhouse last month – despite being warned it was not yet fit for habitation. They are, in essence, camping; the kitchen is makeshift, the floors bare concrete, the walls stripped of plaster and festooned with trailing wires.Many of their possessions – including clothes, books, even Steve’s late mother’s jewellery – were hastily boxed up and packed in a container while still damp, and have come back black with mould. Their insurance company, while it will pay for the damage and the repairs, has said next year’s premium will be £6,000 instead of £1,000, and the excess £25,000 not £350.So what does the future hold? “We’re going to have to try to make a go of it,” says Steve. “We sunk all we had into this house. We can’t sell now – like this, it’s worth half what we paid for it; even after it’s redone, we’d probably only get two-thirds. And we have no idea how we’ll manage the mortgage, just the two of us. It’s got to work.”  The Wiltons are now camping in their house, their makeshift kitchen still showing the signs of damage. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianThe couple remain heartened, Steve says, by “the amazing warmth and generosity of everyone. We’ve had so much help, so much support. Everyone who was flooded says the same; the people here have been just extraordinary.”And the dredgers, brought in by the Environment Agency under sustained local pressure, have now almost finished, clearing 8km of riverbed, removing 130,000 cubic metres of silt, returning the river Parrett to its 1960s profile. Banks have been built up, drains cleared and reinforced. There is some confidence that things will not be like they were in February 2014.But while she is also every bit as determined as Steve to make their new life work, Kay says she does sometimes wish “we’d never left Kent. We’ve been through a fair few ups and downs together in our time, Steve and I, but this … You’ve no idea how hard it is. Our family has just been broken. Utterly broken.”