The Brazilian brutalist Paulo Mendes da Rocha, an architect known for his massive concrete forms and daring structural acrobatics, has won RIBA’s prestigious royal gold medal for 2017.A figure far removed from the usual cast of international “starchitects”, the 87 year old has spent the past six decades building a body of work, primarily in his home country, that stands out for its force of expression and bold structural power, married with finely crafted detail.“His work has a courage and clarity few can match,” said architect Neil Gillespie, who nominated Mendes da Rocha for the accolade. “His structures are daring and joyous, his use of concrete bold and innovative. There is a quality that renders it timeless.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Far from the world of the starchitect … Paulo Mendes da Rocha. Photograph: Ana Ottoni/EPA I have always been attracted to … the humility of simple things. Everything superfluous is irritating Mendes da Rocha’s buildings have an archaic, almost primal air, with huge fins of concrete possessing a raw, visceral roughness. He shot to prominence at the age of 30 with his design for the Paulistano Athletic Club in São Paulo, which consists of six concrete blades supporting a thin circular concrete roof supported by 12 slender cables. Built in 1958, it was a startling sight – a remarkable circus balancing act that pushed the limits of what was physically possible.His Brazilian pavilion for the Expo 70 in Osaka was equally experimental, suspending a gigantic concrete space frame in the air, balanced on the ground at a single point. As architect John McAslan, who seconded the nomination, put it: “His engineering intelligence has always equalled his formal originality.” It was an outlook he learned from his father, who was an engineer and designer of hydraulic works and port facilities. Mendes da Rocha has said his father taught him to respect “technique”, deriving his forms from coherent structural ideas.That same originality can be seen in his Brazilian public buildings in the 1970s and 80s – from the Estádio Serra Dourada and the Museum of Contemporary Art at the University of São Paulo in 1975, to the Saint Peter Chapel in 1987 and the widely celebrated Pinacoteca do Estado gallery (1993), winner of the Mies van der Rohe award.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Engineering intelligence’ … São Paulo’s FIESP cultural centre, 1997. Photograph: Nelson Kon/RIBALast year he completed the long-awaited Lisbon Coach Museum, which stands as a gargantuan concrete hangar near Belém. It is one of his few works outside Brazil.This has been a bumper year of gongs for Mendes da Rocha, picking up Japan’s prestigious Praemium Imperiale award as well as Venice Biennale Golden Lion for lifetime achievement. The Venice jurors praised his “astonishing consistency” and “structural genius”. But his haul of medals – he also won the Pritzker prize in 2006 – is unlikely to change his down-to-earth approach. “Unlike many people who are afraid of poverty,” he wrote in 2003, “I have always been attracted to it, to simple things, without knowing why. Not hardship, but the humility of simple things. I think everything superfluous is irritating. Everything that is not necessary becomes grotesque, especially in our time.”