At the end of last year, I paid my first visit in a decade to the Huddersfield contemporary music festival and, alongside some excellent music, heard an underlying rumble of chatter that posed the question: whatever happened to the great composer? Time was when a visit to Huddersfield meant rubbing shoulders with the greats. I queued once behind Luciano Berio at an ATM; saw Elliott Carter dining in an Indian restaurant (and sightings of Karlheinz Stockhausen in various Huddersfield Indian restaurants are legion); and the history of the festival is haunted by the ghosts of John Cage, Olivier Messiaen, Pierre Boulez, Iannis Xenakis, György Ligeti, Henryk Górecki, Alfred Schnittke, Hans Werner Henze and Michael Tippett, who all made the trip to this unassuming West Yorkshire town. But who had even heard of last year’s headliner, the Swiss composer Jürg Frey?There’s nothing unassuming about the BBC Proms, which launched its 2016 season last week, but the playbill of modern composition on offer again raises questions about where all those composers with real cultural weight, and a corresponding degree of mainstream visibility, might have gone. With all due respect to the likes of Hans Abrahamsen, Jonathan Dove, Colin Matthews, Thomas Adès, Emily Howard, Julian Anderson, Anna Clyne, Sally Beamish and Wolfgang Rihm, who have performances at this year’s Proms, none of their names fits that great composer profile, however hard some of their publishers try to persuade us otherwise.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to In Vain by Georg Friedrich Haas.Back in the day, nothing would have conferred “greatness” on a composer like the Berlin Philharmonic performing your music at the Proms. This year, Simon Rattle and the BPO bring us Julian Anderson’s Incantesimi; and Rattle has practically beatified another of this year’s Proms composers, Georg Friedrich Haas, describing In Vain, his turn-of-the-millennium work for large ensemble, as:“the first masterpiece of the 21st century.” I don’t think it unreasonable to suggest, though, that this music appeals largely to a well-defined audience of new music aficionados. Cage, Stockhausen and Ligeti, offering ideas so potent that they changed music and then bled into mainstream consciousness, feel like a phenomena of the past.I’ve often wondered whether Rattle labelling In Vain “a masterpiece” really does Haas many favours. After all, the notion that a national figure of the consequence of Benjamin Britten could create music like Peter Grimes or his War Requiem, which not only spun modern composition in a decisive new direction but also became a focus of national unity, these days feels rather quaint. “Masterpiece” is a loaded descriptor which can tend to ring hollow in the current climate.A guide to Thomas Adès's music Thirty years ago, Harrison Birtwistle cranking out a meaty orchestral work, Earth Dances, and a major opera, The Mask of Orpheus, at the same time propelled him towards the status he now enjoys. Birtwistle’s work was performed and discussed; after a performance of his opera Gawain, neo-tonal refuseniks came head-to-head with the composer George Benjamin on Newsnight to give their aesthetic differences an airing; activity and momentum fizzed around his work. A great composer, who had gestated for three decades inside the new music womb, was born.If the last month or so has confirmed anything, it’s that the UK is a divided nation, culturally and politically; hardly fertile soil in which affirmative masterpieces can take root. Thomas Adès is not a bad composer. But the valiant attempts of Faber, his publisher, and his onetime record label EMI Classics to contrive the status of great composer upon him have floundered, largely because Adès’ generic modernism was never likely to live up to expectations. Staging his opera The Tempest at Covent Garden in 2004 felt like an attempt to grab back the glory days. Ian Bostridge was parachuted in as Adès’ Peter Pears; a major British composer was ready, apparently, to deliver on the promise of a definitive statement. Some people liked the opera, others didn’t. But the clear implication that here was a Peter Grimes or a Mask of Orpheus for the 2000s never quite rang true.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch My Lover Smiling, from The Tempest, by Thomas Adés.And the truth is, it’s over. The confident forward march in British music that handed us a lineage of great composers – Britten, Tippett, Maxwell Davies, Birtwistle – has shattered. Given that all the obvious “isms” have been exhausted, composers now face an existential crisis over where music might head next; and, anyway, our culture has decided to privilege ephemeral celebrity over anyone who cares enough about the future to utter anything difficult or challenging. And clued-up composers realise that. At Huddersfield, a noticeable shift away from dependable great names occurred during the 2005 festival, when Helmut Lachenmann was composer-in-residence, whose fabric of crumbling structures and instrumental textures dramatised – in sound – the stark reality that retreading the forms of the past represents an expedient, back-of-an-envelope answer to the difficult questions facing today’s composers. Jürg Frey, whom most festival-goers would have doubtlessly failed to recognise standing by an ATM or eating a chicken biryani, pens understated instrumental miniatures, in which sometimes stock tonal patterns are discreetly turned against themselves – the anticipated resolution of a familiar chord never quite materialising.Frey’s music is secret and private; Lachenmann’s is heroically antiheroic, reflecting his intense discomfort at classical music’s vainglorious attachment to its own past. Both composers have gleefully consigned that Romantic great composer archetype to the dustbin of history. And what remains feels speculative and exploratory, sounds that make you think music is in a fragile and vulnerable state, a long way from solidifying into anything approaching confident monuments – let alone masterpieces. 