For anyone who has hit December hardSensorwake, £100Sensorwake is an intriguing alarm clock that wakes you not with sound, but with an aroma of your choice (as long as your choice is croissant, espresso or the seaside). The reusable capsules and heatless, dry-air diffusion fill a room with scent in two minutes. I don’t know about yours, but when my body has been promised a croissant it doesn’t receive, it shuts down. Right down. However, I hate audio alarms – I prefer a vibrating bracelet. This could be a interesting sensual addition. There’s scope to add a vastly greater array of scents. My favourite smells are old books and fresh sweat, but not together.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It doesn’t feel great to be an adult who drinks out of a sippy cup …’ Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianHangover cup, £8Those who have gone all out, travelled fully downtown, got blotto in the grotto, may be more in need of the hangover cup. Warning: this is not a product that suggests quiet dignity. It looks like it may have come from a vet’s office. It holds a litre of water, and it’s spill-proof, spouted and double-handled, so it can be fully inverted for drinking on the horizontal. It doesn’t feel great to be an adult who drinks out of a sippy cup because they can’t hold their Breezers, but reflecting on your immature choices is what January is for, right? 1 January of never.For the frustrated creatives      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Like a sorcerer whipping up a fantasia.’ Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianMolecular gastronomy kit, £40 There’s something sad and sweet about a cook who recently learned foaming technique and is now forcing Bovril suds with deconstructed toast on everyone. But that’s me, now that I own this box of frogs. I love the – let’s be frank – wankery of molecular gastronomy. The molecular gastronomy kit includes syringes, pipettes and silicone tubes, plus sachets of natural texturising agents, such as agar-agar and calcium lactate, and a DVD of 50 recipes. Once you’ve got a handle on spherification, emulsification and gelification, you can play around with recipes such as yoghurt ravioli, lemon clouds and balsamic pearls, like a sorcerer whipping up a fantasia. To me, the kit and its techniques are alien and wondrous – a sort of ET foam home, if you like.For people who are no-nonsense, but maybe a little bit nonsenseTog knives, from £100 I have said – quietly, because it undermines this entire column – that a good knife is the only kitchen gadget one needs.* Tog knives are good – and they let you pretend to be an enigmatic assassin, AKA my favourite hobby. They’re created by a British designer, but hand-forged in Japan, based on the folded construction of Samurai swords, incorporating 21 layers of stainless steel and copper. The knives are strong and incredibly sharp – they bisect tomatoes as if they were made of hummus. The antimicrobial copper laminae resemble geological strata in the blade, while the handle is made of a hardwood alternative called Kebony, which is funny and beautiful to look at. They’re breathtakingly expensive, but ideal for filleting fish, vegetables and enemies.* In addition to a powerful blender and an apron with joke abs on it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rhik enjoys the fruits of the Eclipse’s labours. Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianNescafé Dolce Gusto Eclipse coffee machine, £170 Nescafé’s advert campaign for their new range of pod-coffee machines may have shot itself in the foot, as it features colossal self-regardist will.i.am remixing soul classic Sitting on the Dock of the Bay to banal effect. But let’s not judge their unwise alliances – let’s judge the strange shape of their machines. The Eclipse looks like a starship had relations with a doughnut and returned to earth to dispense hot drinks. Upon touch-activation, the device breaks its perfect circle smoothly, like an ouroboros taking time out from infinity to spew macchiato from its neck. There are capsules for café au lait, espresso caramel and Marrakech tea, among others; the ones I tasted tasted good. The airy digital controls will alienate some and excite others. If you’re down with pod coffee and have one of those brushed-metal kitchens out of Fifty Shades of Grey, prepare to whip yourself into a frenzy. If you own a tea shop in the Cotswolds, don’t.For those in danger of committing Christmas crimeLibratone Q Adapt on-ear headphones, £219Whenever I host a party, there invariably comes a tipping point at which I wish everyone in my house were gone. It’s a problem compounded at Christmas, when one’s home is full of undesirables and children. I have three life-changing words for you, or two including the hyphen: noise-cancelling headphones. Libratone’s Q Adapt are the most elegant I’ve tried, with four ANC (active noise-cancellation) settings and clever, touch-sensitive cans that let you skip tracks, adjust the volume and take calls. They even know when you’ve taken them off, automatically pausing and resuming music. Let the mental duvet descend, my friends.Yester home nutcracker, £35If the option of domestic vigilantism is still important to you, keep this premium nut cracker/shell catcher on hand. It’s a cast-iron vice that could crush a diamond, let alone a macadamia. Made by delightfully named ironmongery Yester Home, it’s the heaviest thing in my house right now.For those to whom you never chose to be relatedAmano tongue scraper, £10 What to get the man or woman who has everything? How about the rank insinuation that they have halitosis? I like this product’s commitment to being disgusting. The press release for the Amano describes the tongue as a deep-pile carpet of bacterial debris, and the proposed benefits of tongue scraping include a deeper appreciation of flavour, as well as the reduction of “STDs residing on the tongue”. (Other sexual health products are available, thank God.) Their models resemble artistic hand-strengtheners, with patterned handles, a triumphant sweep of steel and names including Ophelia Rising and Savile Row. Lord love ’em, they’re as classy as the concept will allow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Happy Christmas! Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianChef’n Twist’N Sprout, £8The brussels sprout stripper is another gadget that, as one friend accurately assessed, has been specially designed to have no transferable uses. But he found it worked well, hulling brussels’ and opening up their leaves for a better boil. What’s most charming, though, is the name: Twist’N Sprout. While food is the most direct way to my heart, wordplay definitely opens the back door. “Twist to trim and core,” reads the packet, like a pilates instructor for miniature cabbages. If you’re in need of a gift that says: “I put very little thought into this,” in addition to: “Now make my dinner,” this is your guy. Also, screw you. Happy Christmas!