When I moved to New York 23 years ago, I started going to the Metropolitan Museum every Sunday. On my way to the American wing one day, I spotted this portrait by John Singer Sargent hanging in a stairwell, all on its own. The woman – Virginie Amélie Avegno Gautreau – looked magnetic, regal and modern. I started to revisit her quite often and wanted to know more. Then I came across the novel Strapless by Deborah Davis. It’s a mixture of fact and fiction, because little was written about Amélie at the time. I found Davis’s version enthralling. Amélie was obviously charismatic: the kind of woman other women wanted to be like; the kind men wanted to be with Amélie came from a wealthy family in New Orleans, but moved to France just after the American civil war. Her mother wanted her to marry well and make her way to the top of Parisian society. She became very well known, almost a supermodel of her time. Amélie wasn’t conventionally beautiful – she had rather pointy features – but she developed a distinctively fashionable look, with her very white skin and dark red hair. She was obviously incredibly charismatic: the kind of woman other women wanted to be like; the kind of woman men wanted to be with and artists wanted to paint. At the time, she was having an affair with Samuel Pozzi, a handsome, celebrated doctor. They were the It Kids of late-19th century Paris.Amélie posed in an expensive, revealing gown and Sargent highlighted the provocative combination of money and sex by painting one jewelled strap slipping carelessly off her shoulder. When the painting, known as Madame X, was exhibited at the stuffily bourgeois Paris Salon, it caused uproar. Sargent swiftly repainted it to restore the offending strap, but the scandal ruined Amélie, and the painter was obliged to leave Paris, unable to find work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Natalia Osipova rehearses with Edward Watson and Matthew Ball. Photograph: Andrej UspenskiI don’t believe the scandal was really about the state of her dress, though. Other models had been painted showing far more flesh. I think society was ready to turn on her. It was the old story of someone being built up and then cut down. People thought Amélie had got too big for her boots. Afterwards, she was ostracised, her husband left her and she was banished to a distant estate on the coast. People sometimes saw her walking along the beach, dressed in white, and she died in her 50s, in total obscurity.For years, I’ve toyed with the idea of making a ballet about Amélie. Then Kevin O’Hare offered me a slot at the Royal Ballet and I thought this would be a perfect role for Natalia Osipova. She’s such a compelling artist: when she’s concentrating in rehearsals, she has this focused, almost regal look. I knew she could evoke Amelie’s charisma, her haughtiness.Strapless is a narrative ballet, but it’s not completely linear. It starts with the varnishing of the picture, goes back to Amélie’s first meeting with Sargent at Pozzi’s apartment, then moves forward to the Paris Salon and Amélie’s downfall. Mark-Anthony Turnage has written the score and it’s been a wonderful collaboration. I went to him with a synopsis, breaking the ballet into scenes and giving him ideas about timing and emotional climaxes. He ended up writing the score twice over because, while I loved the first version, we both agreed that it didn’t capture the period. He went away and worked hard to get a sound that would be very much of today, but also evoke 1880s Paris.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s been very satisfying to make. After working on An American in Paris, I’ve liked the challenge of telling really meaty stories. I’ve been working with Charlotte Westenra, a young theatre director who’s written her own play based on the ballet. Charlie’s given every dancer a character and some lines, not for them to speak but to use as a reference to develop their roles. So a dancer in the corps de ballet isn’t just Gentleman Number One – he’s called Antoine and he’s a lawyer. It makes a real difference.In the ballet, you don’t see the painting itself until towards the end. While I’ve been working in the studio, I haven’t looked at it all either. So the other day, when it appeared on stage. it was almost a shock. It gave me an eerie feeling to see Amélie once again. It made me hope I’ve done her justice.Interview by Judith Mackrell. Strapless is part of a Christopher Wheeldon programme at the Royal Opera House, London, 12 February to 11 March. 