This is the second novel by British vlogger/ author, Zoe Sugg, or Zoella. Girl Online On Tour is a continuation of her first novel, Girl Online. After the huge success of her first novel, Zoe Sugg did not plan on stopping, even when she was greeted with heavy criticism and judgement for ghostwriting without telling anybody.In this sequel, our favourite girl Penny explores her boyfriend’s rock star world more than ever. After the abrupt ending of Girl Online, where Penny decides to quit the online world for good, she privately uploads for three people: her closest teacher, her best friend Wiki and a loyal fan. She still has a superstar boyfriend, Noah, who is going on tour and wants Penny to join him to experience the touring lifestyle. After months of pleading her parents they finally allow her to travel across Europe with her boyfriend for 3 weeks over summer. What could make a 16 year–old happier?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest After the disasters of the last book, Penny has a rocky relationship with her ex-best-friend, Megan, although she has made some close friends through Girl Online. She cherishes every one of them. But as the holidays start, she feels herself losing control of her identity and of who she is as an individual. In this book, we are introduced to some new characters such as Noah’s best friend, Noah’s manager, and Noah’s so-called ex-girlfriend. Every new character has some significance in shaping Penny’s character by the end of the book. I believe that at the end of this book we are greeted by a maturer version of the young girl who was tripping over herself in the first book. I could really perceive her enhanced character and see her growing up as a person.This book I feel is better than the first one, since it deals with wider concepts and doesn’t just revolve around Penny any more. It is about everybody and how everyone’s actions influence her development. This book is certainly more intense compared to the first one.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Overall this book was interesting and great for passing the time.Rating: 3.8/5Buy this book at the GuardianBookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!