So this is what liberation looks like: four armed officers ordering a woman to undress in public. France’s prime minister, Manuel Valls, has backed the mayors ordering “burkini bans” on their beaches by arguing, among other things, that the garment is part of the enslavement of women. The photos from Nice, in which a Muslim woman removes her tunic under duress, show that claim of upholding women’s rights to be as erroneous as the others advanced in support of the measures – variously, that covering up for religious reasons while at the seaside or while swimming is unhygienic, or a “provocation”, or contrary to French values. The images are preposterous as well as ugly, highlighting the profound mismatch between stated ideals and their consequence; and an imagined threat to the national community and the means used to subdue it, with multiple gun-toting policemen required to confront one sunbathing woman. Which French values are being defended is unclear. Not liberation; nor equality; nor fraternity – since women who wish to wear the burkini (or, it seems, the hijab and loose-fitting clothes) are confronted with a choice between dressing as they feel fit or removing themselves from a public space.The text of the Cannes ban refers to those who wear “ostentatiously” religious dress as disrespectful of good manners and laïcité, the French concept of secularism founded on freedom of conscience, a strict separation between religion and the state, and the freedom to exercise any faith. That reflects a deepening battle over the true meaning of the philosophy and, in particular, an attempt by the right to clothe its xenophobia and Islamophobia more respectably. France is becoming increasingly politically polarised in the run-up to this November’s rightwing primaries and next year’s presidential election, the electoral calendar meshing alarmingly with the fallout from terrorist atrocities. The rise of Marine Le Pen and her party has encouraged others to buy into her rhetoric. Nicolas Sarkozy’s announcement this week that he would run again for top office came with a message clearly aimed at far-right voters. He promised to extend the ban on the hijab in schools to universities, to restrict access to benefits for women who repeatedly violate the existing burqa ban, and to scrap a law authorising immigrants to be reunited with their families. He has denounced “the tyranny of minorities”.The Nice ban refers specifically to last month’s Bastille Day attack in the city, without mentioning that several of the 84 victims were Muslim, while the mayor of Cannes has described burkinis as referring to an allegiance to terrorist groups. Others have described them improbably as a provocation by Islamists (as if such groups were likely to urge women to bathe in form-fitting outfits on mixed-sex public beaches). It is hard to see the logical correlation. What can be said is that obsessing about the burkini is a good way to distract attention from the many social and economic reasons why young second and third generation immigrants may feel disenfranchised and harbour grievances against the republic – making some vulnerable to recruitment by extremists – and that it is likely to alienate more of them.Some politicians have cited the risk of public disorder and seem concerned primarily that growing distrust between parts of society could lead to violent clashes – such as a recent brawl in Corsica – particularly since the head of the domestic intelligence service has warned that the far right is looking for confrontation. They see the rules, perhaps, as pragmatic; they are, in fact, deeply unfair because they put the onus on Muslim women to prevent other people’s criminality and avoid evoking their prejudice. Tomorrow France’s highest administrative court will consider the legality of the bans. Though the political backdrop is complex, the issue remains simple. Women’s right to dress as they feel comfortable and fitting should be defended against those coercing them into either covering or uncovering. Their bodies are their business.