Westworld: is it Westeros with lassos? You can do anything (or anyone) you like in Westworld, the robot cowboy-populated theme park at the centre of HBO’s sci-fi series. And thanks to some mystery-filled storytelling, the possibilities for in-show conspiracy theories are similarly endless. Here are some of the most out-there ones. There may be spoilers ahead...1) Ford is a robot...First things first. Park creator, Anthony Hopkins’s Dr Robert Ford, isn’t merely the greatest purveyor of sex tourism mankind has ever known. He’s also a robot. Following the revelation that he founded the park with a “partner”, the mysterious Arnold that the robots keep referencing when they break down, one theory goes that Ford was made by Arnold, became sentient, and killed his maker. Yes, it’s a stretch.2) Bernard is a robot...Well, if Ford’s not a robot, then Jeffrey Wright’s programming guru Bernard surely is. It’s reckoned that Bernard could be a new android embodiment of Arnold, who was searching for actual consciousness in the robots, not just a facsimile of it. Oh, and Bernard Lowe is an anagram of “Arnold Weber”. So, y’know, there’s that.3) The ‘Man In Black’ is...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ed Harris as The Man in Black. Photograph: HBODepending on your level of disbelief suspension, Ed Harris’s brutal bastard could be either: a robot who believes he’s a human; the park’s original “host” who knows he’s a robot, and is searching for his destiny; or just a billionaire philanthropist with an appetite for scalping people.The good, the bad and the cyborgs: Westworld's robot forebears 4) Westworld mixes up the erasObservant folk have noticed that there are differing logos knocking about Westworld. One conclusion is that there are two timelines running concurrently in the show (rather than, say, a lack of joined-up thinking in Westworld’s branding team), with one story running in the present, and one in the past. It’s suggested that mild-mannered William, a newcomer to the park, exists in the older timeline, and later becomes the Man In Black in the present timeline. Got it? Nope, us neither.5) It’s all an experiment...There’s chatter that the whole park could be an experiment to observe artificial sentience. There are no “hosts”, there are no ‘newcomers”. They’re all robots, except that some of them think they aren’t. Mindbending.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anthony Hopkins as Dr Ford and Jeffrey Wright as Bernard Lowe. Photograph: HBO6) It’s a bit like The Matrix...There’s no physical Westworld park. In fact, you “upload” yourself to it, and are probably sitting in a big comfy chair/commode for the whole time. Oh, and while we’re on The Matrix...7) It’s actually a horrifying documentary...Recent talk – from Elon Musk among others – that there’s a fair chance we’re already living in a computer simulation, has lent credence to the idea that Westworld is a documentary sent by those freed from its shackles, who are trying to wake us from our digital reverie. This seems easily the most likely theory.Westworld continues on Tue, 9pm, Sky Atlantic