Most of us can probably recall a time when we’ve either been ignored or have been the ignorer. In the second instance, perhaps we’ve avoided replying to someone because we’re cross with them and can’t be bothered to “get into it”. Perhaps we’ve forgotten to reply for so long that it feels too weird. In a romantic situation, perhaps we’ve decided that we want to break up with someone, but haven’t worked out how to do it (otherwise known as being a coward). Perhaps we felt pressured – and felt like the other person was demanding too much from us.Breaking up is hard to do. But procrastinating doesn't make it easier | Zach Stafford The variables are infinite. Being ignored, though, is not a fun ride. It ploughs through our self-esteem, providing fertile ground for catastrophic thinking. Before trying to work out what reasons someone might have for this kind of behaviour, we should consider why it causes so much anguish.When someone is ignoring us, for whatever reason, we are set to “pause” on their mental clock. It is a kind of enforced purgatory where nothing is certain. As human beings, our brains are unique in their ability to predict what will happen in the future. We receive information from the outside world and store it in our hard drive of memories to make predictions. These are based on what we’ve seen before and what is happening right now. We do this because we strive for black-and-white certainty, even when it might be better to hang back in the grey. Why? Because grey is painful.The brain doesn’t like uncertainty. When we are uncertain about the future (in which, potentially, we could come to harm), a threat response in our limbic system is activated. Our ability to focus on other stuff like work, for example, atrophies. A study in 2005 found that even a little bit of ambiguity will activate the amygdala – the region of the brain responsible for processing emotional reactions – which will “light up” on neuroimaging scans as blood flow to the area increases. The more ambiguity, the greater the threat response.Our individual threat responses can’t separate “proper” threats like someone breaking into our house at night from “silly” threats like someone not replying to our text messages – however rational we might like to believe we are. Any definition would be arbitrary because it depends on the person and their own banks of memory and experience. If we are being ignored by someone, not only do we instinctively try and work out why (that drive for certainty again), we can easily fall prey to ideologies of emotional resilience: how we “should” be able to rise above certain behaviours directed towards us.We might listen to a friend saying they’re struggling because the person they’re dating and have become attached to is ignoring them and think they should get a grip. But it’s not quite that simple. “We all feel the pain of ostracism about equally, no matter how tough or sensitive we are,” says Kipling D Williams, a professor of psychological sciences at Purdue University, in his excellent 2010 paper The Agony of Ostracism. It is our personality traits, he argues, that “influence how we cope”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘If the silent treatment is being given after an argument, the person may believe they have justification, but really it’s a way of inflicting distress without leaving a mark.’ Photograph: Image Source/Rex FeaturesIf someone’s brain perceives being ignored as threatening, they’ll feel it. Really feel it. It might upset their stomach, constrict their chest, disrupt their sleep. When “should” – the greatest ally to anxiety – joins the party, and that person feels as though they’re not doing what they ought to be doing, they’ll feel worse. So let’s be clear: being shunned by another human being is a perfectly understandable thing to feel threatened by.Depending on which psychological model you subscribe to, there is an argument to be made for us having a biological drive for stable, responsive attachments. A General Theory of Love – a book by three eminent psychiatrists that explains how our nervous systems are not self-contained and are, in fact, linked with the people closest to us from childhood in an invisible tempo that modifies the structure of our brains – offers a truth both beautiful and bleak: “Who we are and who we become depends, in part, on whom we love.”The theory of attachment was developed by the British psychoanalyst John Bowlby in an attempt to understand the intense distress infants experience when separated from their parents. The primary concern was the infant-caregiver relationship, but Bowlby believed that attachment characterised human experience from “the cradle to the grave”. The factors that make an attachment figure desirable for an infant – availability, responsiveness, etc – are the factors we may find desirable in a romantic partner. Once we make an adult attachment, then, and those things become precarious, the situation becomes threatening to us. We may not scream until we’re purple-faced with our hair stuck to our foreheads (well, some of us might), but we start to panic.If we have removed genuine obstacles to communication such as work commitments (my friend, a surgeon, says her boyfriend knows he’ll barely hear from her during the weeks she’s on call) and travel, what do we do when we’re confident that someone we have become attached to is giving us the cold shoulder? If we spend too long trying to work out why – the hundreds of Google pages filled with hypothetical answers to the title question is an encyclopedia of that wrenching contemplation – we may further torture ourselves without gaining much clarity.At the beginning of a relationship, a person may believe they have to “play hard-to-get” or “treat-’em-mean-to-keep-’em-keen” in order to sustain interest. This kind of behaviour, although packaged sassily in dating advice books and columns, is a powerful form of manipulation that often, sadly, works – regardless of gender and particularly for those with low self-esteem. Idealisation of the person you’re dating breeds in the cracks of communication, and it’s easy to want more of them. But even if you are emotionally robust, if you’ve been dating someone for a few months and they start taking days to reply to your messages or answer your calls, it’s very hard.Human behaviour: is it all in the brain – or the mind? There is a risk of quickly getting locked into a pattern of both parties seeing the other as the problem, too. You may express concern at your lover being unavailable, only for them to say you’re too demanding. Then, it’s eggshell-treading in case you “push them away”. Of course, the ideal outcome is that, with good communication and a willingness to empathise, behaviours will adapt. In many cases, they won’t.Deliberately giving someone the silent treatment is a tool for punishment and manipulation. If it is happening after an argument, the person may believe they have justification, that silence is the graceful, dignified path, but really it’s a way of inflicting distress without leaving a mark. If we are the person who is being ignored, and we’ve tried to calmly make it clear that upset has been caused, ultimately the most helpful thing we can do for ourselves is to try and align the behaviour with our own values and needs. Sometimes, we’ll need to really think and be honest about what those needs are. If we believe that someone we have emotionally invested in is deliberately, repeatedly, using silence as a mechanism, we have to ask: “Is this good enough?”