During a 60-year career, the versatile actor Terence Bayler, who has died aged 86, became a recognisable face on television and in films, notably for his collaborations with the Monty Python team.He played Gregory (and other roles) in the controversial Life of Brian (1979) – a religious spoof about a man mistaken for the Messiah – uttering two of the film’s most memorable lines. During the final crucifixion scene, Brian’s fellow prisoners try to pass themselves off as him in order to escape death (a subversion of the “I’m Spartacus” moment in Stanley Kubrick’s 1960 film). Amid the many cries of “I’m Brian”, Gregory exclaims “I’m Brian, and so’s my wife” – an ad lib by Bayler. Earlier in the film, when the assorted throng worshipping Brian shout in unison “We are all individuals”, Bayler interjects “I’m not” - another ad lib. He had started working with the Python team after Eric Idle – whom he knew socially – saw him performing music hall songs in a small pub theatre and was impressed with his comic timing. Idle later cast him in his first stage play, Pass the Butler (Globe theatre, 1982).Tall and distinguished looking, Bayler was cast as military officers and upper-class Englishmen, even though he was actually a working-class New Zealander. He was born in Wanganui, the son of Amy (nee Allomes) and Harold Bayler. His father, a lorry driver by day and theatre stagehand by night, got him free tickets to see shows, so he was well versed in the profession by the time he started working backstage and acting in amateur theatre.His professional debut was the lead role in the first feature film produced in New Zealand after the second world war, Broken Barrier (1952). It was a groundbreaking film about a relationship between a Maori woman and a white man; in 1996, a still of Bayler and his co-star, Kay Ngarimu, was featured on a postage stamp issued to mark the centenary of New Zealand cinema.He had already won a scholarship to study at Rada in London when the film was shot, and he moved to the UK in 1950. After training, he worked in theatre for Peter Hall in Twelfth Night and Richard III (Elizabethan Theatre Company, 1953). He made his West End debut in 1960 in Villa Sleep Four at the Strand theatre. The following year he won excellent notices for his comic performance in Ira Levin’s Critic’s Choice at the Vaudeville, and in 1964 he appeared in Glen Byam Shaw’s production of The Right Honourable Gentleman at Her Majesty’s theatre.He had stints as Giles Ralston in The Mousetrap in 1967 and as the Narrator in The Rocky Horror Show (Kings Road theatre, 1974), appeared at the National Theatre in The Magistrate (1986-87), was Cominius to Corin Redgrave’s Coriolanus (Young Vic, 1989) and in 1993 played Colonel Pickering to Maximilian Schell’s Henry Higgins in a European tour of Pygmalion (the production also featured the actor Valerie Cutko, who was to become Bayler’s second wife).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In Monty Python’s Life of Brian, 1979, Brian’s fellow prisoners try to pass themselves off as him to escape death.Television credits included the Player King in Hamlet (1961, with William Russell as Hamlet), Maigret (1963), Doctor Who (1966 and 1969, playing two different roles), The Brothers (1974), Upstairs, Downstairs (1975) and Dennis Potter’s Lipstick on Your Collar (1993). Having appeared in numerous episodes of Rutland Weekend Television (1975-76) for Idle, he then played Leggy Mountbatten, the band manager, in the 1978 TV film The Rutles: All You Need Is Cash, a spoof documentary about a group not unlike the Beatles.In his heftiest cinematic role, he was cast by Roman Polanski as Macduff in his film adaptation of Macbeth (1971). The director changed the schedule to secure Bayler’s services when the initial dates clashed with another project he had committed to. During the brutal final fight scene he sustained an injury above his eye when he was accidentally hit by Jon Finch’s sword.Having impressed another Monty Python member, Terry Gilliam, Bayler found himself in the films Time Bandits (1981) and Brazil (1985). Later big-screen work included James Ivory’s The Remains of the Day (1993) and Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone (as the ghostly Bloody Baron, 2001).Bayler wrote the foreword to the book New Zealand Filmmakers (2007), describing the basic filming methods employed on Broken Barrier, an engagement for which he was paid “six pounds a week plus food and tobacco”. He worked on his native soil again in the film Pictures (1981), which reunited him with John O’Shea, the director of Broken Barrier, and on the 1992 miniseries The Other Side of Paradise.He is survived by Valerie, and by the son and daughter of his first marriage, to the actor Bridget Armstrong, which ended in divorce.• Terence Bayler, actor, born 24 January 1930; died 2 August 2016