Are women funny? At a time when so many of comedy’s biggest names are female – from Bridget Christie to Katherine Ryan, Sarah Millican to Josie Long – you might imagine that that tired debate would finally have run out of steam. But that would be wishful thinking, according to standup Kiri Pritchard-McLean. The lurid misogyny that she repeatedly encounters has led her to speak out in her touring show Hysterical Woman, which tackles the question – and the zombie sexism it implies – head on.Pritchard-McLean reports back from the frontline of circuit comedy, where predatory promoters roam and all-female bills are called “paralympic nights”. She details the heckles, hostility and patronising post-show comments to which female comics are daily subjected; the rarity of more than one female act appearing on any comedy bill; and the way scheduling works to position them in less prominent positions on those bills. It reveals as endemic the types of behaviour experienced by comedian Jenny Collier in 2014, when she publicised an email from a promoter who cancelled her gig because “the venue decided that they don’t want too many women on the bill”. Or the Canadian comic Christina Walkinshaw, “fired” from one club, she claims, for complaining about sexist heckling (“Show us your tits!”) at the venue.Last month, Katherine Ryan spoke about sexism in the industry, which, she argued, often judges female acts by age and appearance rather than talent. That’s the world Pritchard-McLean’s show depicts – although it is, she believes, one that’s beginning to change for the better. More promoters want to book bills that reflect their audiences, she says – albeit that “when you turn up and there are other women on the bill, it still feels like, ‘are we doing a fundraiser for breast cancer?’”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Female comedians are judged by their age and appearance, says standup Katherine Ryan. Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverShe says that fellow comics coerced her into making the show, saying she’d be doing them all a favour. “The challenge,” says the 30-year-old standup, is that “you can’t be unfunny and talk about how women are funny. And that’s terrifying. There’s no margin for error.” So scary was the prospect, and so taboo the subject for aspiring female comics – justifiably wary of being pegged as chippy or excuse-making – that Pritchard-McLean had misgivings about making the show at all. You’d scarcely guess it from her demeanour in person: she’s outspoken (“Actors are like cattle”), cheerfully pugnacious (“I’m incredibly arrogant and confident and determined”), and laughs long and loud. One such guffaw comes when describing her ambitions for the show: to help others think critically about their assumptions, of course, but also to “learn about the world and how I can not be a wanker”. Then: “I’m not saying I’m not a wanker. But at least now I’m an informed wanker.” Cue raucous cackle.In Hysterical Woman, she brings research and considered thinking to bear on anthropological arguments (that male humour is a kind of mating ritual) and on her own prejudices about what different genders and races can and cannot do. She hopes the show can play a role in improving the lot of female comics. In the meantime, its primary – and personal – effect has been to shore up her belief in socially engaged standup as a means of staging difficult conversations and “planting seeds in people’s heads”. She has a conviction that “in comedy, you can have difficult conversations that you can’t have normally and make people engage instantaneously. And you can do it on a Saturday night when they’re hammered! That’s amazing.”She elaborates: “We live in a rich country with a lot of bad things going on in it. If you’re standing on stage, why would you not say anything about that? Why would you just” – and she searches for the word, before uttering, with disgust - “talk?!” Her next show, Appropriate Adult, will be about volunteering with disadvantaged children. Its follow-up will be about non-offending paedophiles.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Darkly comic sketches … Gein’s Family Giftshop. Photograph: Drew ForsythTo some degree, this policy is borne of guilt, that her parents (she’s a farmer’s daughter from Wales) struggled to pay her through private school, “and now I’m swearing at strangers for a living [instead of] doing something important and rigorous with my life”. That might also explain her work ethic: alongside the standup, the volunteering, and an ambition to open a drama school back home in Anglesey, there’s her hit podcast (with Rachel Fairburn), which also addresses a hot-to-handle subject: each episode of All Killa No Filla discusses the career of a different serial killer. In addition, Pritchard-McLean is a member of Gein’s Family Giftshop, a darkly comic sketch troupe named after the American serial killer Ed Gein. She chooses only to direct their shows as she hates acting, doesn’t think she’s good at it, and distrusts those who use comedy as a stepping stone to an acting career. “I have a set of invisible standards I hold myself to, and not acting is one of them,” she says – then guffaws again.“To me,” she concludes, “being funny is an intellectual challenge. To take those subjects and make people laugh about them, while making a point – that’s tricky, and that’s exciting.” • Hysterical Woman is on tour. Appropriate Adult previews at the Machynlleth comedy festival, 30 April, and will run at the Edinburgh festival in August. Gein’s Family Giftshop: Volume 3 is also at the Edinburgh festival.