The destruction in 1972 of Les Halles, the market described by Zola as “the belly of Paris”, was an act of sabotage against the city. It was “the most violent act ever committed against the heritage of Paris,” according to historian Donato Severo – strong words given what Haussmann did a century earlier. In its place was built a transport and shopping complex, nearly universally reviled for its mean spirit.Now, at last, a new vast canopy is being installed over the site – a flowing glass roof that aims to wipe out the bad memory of the intervening 44 years. Mayor Anne Hidalgo says it will become once again “the beating heart” of Paris. But many cities were not so lucky, and Les Halles not the only great urban structure lost to greed, tastes or bad planning. Nor, it seems, have we learned our lessons.Pennsylvania StationA custard-coloured flop: the €1bn revamp of Les Halles in Paris       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The original Pennyslvania Station was demolished in 1964. Photograph: Aaron Rose / Museum of the City of New York/Museum of the City of New YorkIn the US, perhaps the closest parallel to Les Halles is Pennsylvania Station, the McKim, Mead and White masterpiece that was demolished and replaced by the execrable Penn Station. A classic of Beaux-Arts design and one of the architectural jewels of the city, its amputation led to the start of the architectural preservation movement in America.Of the two buildings, before and after, architecture critic Vince Scully noted: “One entered the city like a god; one scuttles in now like a rat.” Interestingly, one of the proposals for its replacement, from Richard Cameron and James Grimes of design firm Atelier & Co, proposes rebuilding it from the original plans, using 3D printing technology to reproduce all of the detailed design elements.The West Pier, Brighton      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brighton’s neglected West Pier has fallen victim to numerous fires, and the salty sea below. Photograph: betty finney / Alamy/AlamyBuilt in the 1860s, this cast-iron pier was 340 metres of promenade and pavilion. Despite many attempts to save the Victorian marvel, the West Pier closed in 1975 and suffered a succession of calamities: part of it fell into the sea in 2002, and the rest caught fire a year later, leaving just the skeletal remains to further degrade with each passing storm.Seaside piers may have originated in Britain, but the phenomenon spread around the world, from Atlantic City to Sydney, and Britain’s National Pier society calls them “a powerful reminder of the achievements of Victorian engineers and entrepreneurs”. But today, in its place, the West Pier Trust is building a vertical pier, a 162m spike of a tower with a glass-enclosed sky bar – evidence that changing tastes are as much a factor in the loss of our heritage as greed or stupidity.Ebbets Field, Brooklyn      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ebbets Field in 1913. Photograph: Transcendental Graphics/Getty ImagesDue in part to its architectural intimacy and quirky field shape, Ebbets Field was heralded as “the greatest ballpark ever”. But Brooklyn’s favourite baseball stadium was smack in the middle of the borough; it was too small; and most importantly, in the dawn of the automobile era, it had no parking space.Its owner, Walter O’Malley, got into a fight with infamous New York planner Robert Moses about where its replacement might be, after which O’Malley simply picked up his team – the Dodgers – and moved them to Los Angeles. Frank Sinatra sang about it: “Now the children try to find it / And they can’t believe their eyes / For the old team just isn’t playing / And the new team hardly tries.” Baseball great Duke Snider said: “When they tore down Ebbets Field, they tore down a little piece of me.”The hutongs of Beijing      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the few hutong neighbourhoods remaining in Beijing. Photograph: Ng Han Guan/APOld Beijing was a patchwork of neighbourhoods made up of courtyard houses on narrow lanes known as hutongs. This pattern dated back to the 13th century, and by the late 20th century some hutongs hadn’t greatly progressed: many lacked toilets, central heating and were considered slums by a China newly in thrall to the modern world. As much as 90% of these efficient, dense, self-sufficient neighbourhoods have been demolished. Those that remain are tourist attractions.Orange County Government Centre, New York      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like many brutalist structures, the administrative building was deemed an eyesore. Photograph: Mike Groll/APPaul Rudolph’s administrative building was called “rigorous and abstract” by some, and a “monstrosity” by others. The brutalist structure was hard to love, and even harder to maintain – with 87 roofs, most of which leaked – but it was considered an important example of midcentury modern architecture. The American architect’s houses were too small, his schools too open and naturally ventilated, and his bigger buildings were too expensive to maintain and heat. Brutalist building are under threat everywhere, and it’s not just a few that are being lost, but an entire legacy.The Larkin Building, Buffalo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frank Lloyd Wright’s Larking Building. A parking lot now stands in its place. Photograph: Granger, NYC/Alamy Stock PhotoMany great buildings have been lost for many different reasons, but few for no good reason at all. Frank Lloyd Wright’s Larkin building was one of those. The five-storey atrium building for a former soap company was the first air-conditioned office building in the world, and redesigned the way peopled worked – with four levels of employees looking down on the company’s executives in the atrium below.As one architect noted while trying to save it: “The Larkin Building set a precedent for many an office building we admire today and should be regarded not as an outmoded utilitarian structure but as a monument, if not to Mr Wright’s creative imagination, to the inventiveness of American design.”After the Larkin company closed, the new owner wanted to build a truck stop. The building was razed to the ground. But the truck stop was never built, and the site has been a parking lot ever since.Public Library, Cincinnati, Ohio      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Public Library of Cincinnati, Ohio was demolished in the 1950s. Photograph: Public Library of Cincinnati & Hamilton CountyThis oddball of a building was known to very few until the internet discovered it and people wondered: how could they take that down? In fact, libraries with high stacks and skylit roofs were standard in the 19th century; perhaps the best is Trinity College in Dublin. But Cincinnati’s version soared higher, with five storeys of books piled on top of one another, surrounding a skylit atrium and reading room. All this was lost when low ceilings and electric lighting became the desired design for libraries.Mitchell Park Domes, Milwaukee  Milwaukee’s Mitchell Domes conservatories. Photograph: The Park People of Milwaukee County, IncEverything is political in America, including heritage landscapes. The Mitchell Park Domes – three modernist concrete, steel and glass conservatories that once featured birds and thousands of plant species – are now under threat from politicians who object to spending money to fix and maintain them.The domes have become a political football in the general election, with Republican county executive Chris Abele justifying their removal: “When the Domes replaced the Victorian conservatory that was there before, I’m sure there were plenty of people who bemoaned the loss of the Victorian conservatory and saw these new, modern McDonald’s-y domes as, oh, it was heresy”. As we tell our kids, two wrongs don’t make a right.Okura Hotel, Tokyo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The banquet hall at the Okura hotel, Tokyo. Photograph: Kazuhiro Nogi/AFP/Getty ImagesIn You Only Live Twice, Dikko Henderson tells James Bond: “Taking you to your hotel first – the Okura, latest of the western ones... Then we’ll do a bit of serious drinking.” That’s what you did in the Okura: it was a glorious mix of western and Japanese design, where Mad Men modernism met traditional craft and colour in a “perfect combination of wood, paper screens and pendant lights”. Built in advance of Tokyo’s 1964 Olympics, the Okura is now being demolished in favour of a bigger hotel that will be built in time for the 2020 Olympics iteration. An astonishing period piece that mixed traditional and modern, craft and technology, it has been described by Monocle magazine as “a heartbreaking and irreparable loss”.Story of cities #12: Haussmann rips up Paris – and divides France to this day Is there a beautiful building in your city that’s met the wrecking ball – or facing it currently? Share your photos and memories using GuardianWitness