With its combination of thought and sport, nature ramble and rivalry, golf once seemed the ideal pursuit for a writer. Agatha Christie and Ian Fleming played regularly and put it into their fiction (in Murder on the Links and Goldfinger, respectively); Arthur Conan Doyle conceived The Hound of the Baskervilles during a round. Yet this week, despite the prompts of the Ryder Cup and the death of Arnold Palmer, literary golfers have been hard to spot. What went wrong in literature’s affair with the Scottish game?The romance was at its height, usually in crime and comic writing, in the peaceful 1920s, 30s and 50s, when PG Wodehouse penned golf stories incessantly (sometimes featuring Bertie Wooster, but also dozens narrated by the Oldest Member); other mystery writers followed Christie in turning courses into crime scenes, and John Betjeman wrote his “Seaside Golf” – an evocation of scoring a par three on a Cornish course that ends ecstatically with “splendour, splendour everywhere”).Open thread: which sports produce the best literature? Golf’s role in artier fare involves scenes and supporting characters rather than whole novels and protagonists, but these fleeting appearances in this era’s literary fiction are remarkably classy. The pre-eminent US modernist novel, William Faulkner’s The Sound and the Fury (1929), actually opens on a course - working out that golf is being played (“I could see them hitting ... They took the flag out, and they were hitting”) is a kind of initiation into the puzzle posed by its distortive stream of consciousness narration. Jordan Baker, Nick Carraway’s girlfriend in The Great Gatsby (1925), exemplifies the recurring trope of the free-spirited female golfer, also instanced by Holden Caulfield’s platonic pal Jane Gallagher - the only post-pubertal member of the opposite sex he talks of positively - in JD Salinger’s The Catcher in the Rye (1951).The sense of a natural affinity between writing and golfing continued into subsequent decades for authors shaped by this heyday – notably John Updike (an addicted player of what he called “the thinking man’s game” whose writings about it are collected in Golf Dreams) but also George Plimpton, who chronicled his brief time on the pro tour in The Bogey Man, and once played a round against an LSD-fuelled Hunter S Thompson - and more surprisingly Samuel Beckett: a recent review of his Letters Volume III noted that it was his “first love” and he played off a handicap of seven, “better than Ian Fleming, not as good as Patrick Hamilton or Malcolm Lowry”.By the time of Palmer’s last major victory in 1964, however, the relationship had begun to sour. Younger writers rarely took up whacking tiny balls thereafter and viewed golf or country clubs as enclaves of complacent bourgeois privilege – protected in the recent past or even the present by racism, antisemitism, class prejudice and sometimes sexism that Updike loved to spend his afternoons ambling around such mock-estates embodied what the new guard reacted against in his work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elizabeth Debicki as Jordan Baker, with Joel Edgerton as Tom Buchanan, in Baz Luhrmann’s The Great Gatsby. Photograph: Allstar/Warner BrosIf golfers do appear in post-60s fiction, they can be counted to be male and obnoxious (Don DeLillo twice, in his 1970 story “The Uniforms” and 1977 novel Players, enigmatically depicts terrorist radicals slaying them in a shooting spree); and golf course developers – fictive Donald Trumps – emerge as a new category of villain, in for example Carl Hiaasen’s Native Tongue (1991) and Jane Smiley’s Good Faith (2003).While some 21st-century authors are ambivalent about the sport, - Hiaasen also wrote a rueful golfing memoir, The Downhill Lie – others are unequivocally hostile. Tennis aficionado David Foster Wallace said that watching televised golf means “crushing, crushing boredom ... like you’ve never known will wash over you and just about kill you”; while Jonathan Franzen has written that he dislikes “almost everything about it. The point seems to be the euthanising of workday-sized chunks of time by well-off white men. Golf eats land, drinks water, displaces wildlife, fosters sprawl.”