This summer I travelled 400 miles on my paddleboard, covering the length of the country in 22 days, and carrying everything I needed – 20kg of kit – on my board. I’d do 20 miles a day, wild camping and waking up to beautiful views of the waterways of England, the stunning canals and rivers that carried me from Surrey to Cumbria, passing kingfishers, herons, hedgehogs and swans on the way.I’d trained hard, but paddling 11 hours a day was exhausting. I travelled north on the advice of a friend, who thought the prevailing winds would help, but I ended up with gusts against me 90% of the way. This also meant my journey along the Thames was upstream. At the start, heavy rain and high winds made this incredibly difficult. You can’t stop in the middle of a river when you’re going upstream. It took a week of relentless paddling just to get past the Thames section and into the Oxford canal.By day 15, I couldn’t clench my fists. This was the start of carpal tunnel syndrome. Some days it took hours for me to grip properly: my hands were like pincers as I tried to pull my leggings on each morning. The worst point was Heartbreak Hill: a stretch of the Trent and Mersey canal with 29 locks, which I had to do in a single day – hauling my board and equipment on and off the water every time. By lock six, I was sobbing. I felt tired, hungry, alone. But I wasn’t going to give up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   What a load of rubbish … Lizzie with her new Trash Raft. Photograph: Owen Tomkins/Barcroft ImagesWhy did I put myself through this? Well, I’d always been adventurous, but I found myself stuck in the corporate world, working in marketing. I was ambitious and defined success by job titles and pay. After five years, I decided to take a career break – to explore the world before knuckling back down.Suddenly I was young and free again. I had incredible adventures: trekking in China, horseriding in Outer Mongolia. It reignited my love for the outdoors and made me feel invincible. But three months after I returned to work, I was diagnosed with thyroid cancer. This blindsided me. My thyroid was removed and I had radiotherapy. I went to stay with my dad on the Isles of Scilly, to relax and recover. I was struggling with fatigue so high-impact exercise was now out of the question. While I was recovering from thyroid cancer, I saw someone paddleboarding. It looked so relaxing One day as I sat on the beach, I saw someone paddleboarding. It looked so relaxing. I walked straight to the sailing club and borrowed a board. Although I fell in a bit, it was easy to pick up. That’s the beauty of paddleboarding – anyone can do it. And it’s very safe: if you can’t see the bottom of the sea, they say, you’re too far out. It’s not “trendy punting” – it’s Britain’s fastest growing watersport for a good reason. People fall in love with it because, mentally and physically, it feels so beneficial, so calming. I love going out in groups, chatting, stopping for a picnic or a drink.When I came back to London, I found out you can paddleboard on canals and rivers, so in the evenings and weekends I’d head out. That’s when I noticed the amount of discarded plastic on the water. It isn’t just an eyesore: it affects wildlife. One day, I saw a coot’s nest made up of as much plastic as twigs. I was horrified.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lizzie with her kit on the 400-mile odyssey – and some of the rubbish she picked up. Photograph: Neil IrwinI wanted to draw attention to what is happening on our doorstep – to the canals and rivers that had been such places of comfort and restoration for me. So I decided to paddleboard the length of England, along its connected waterways, photographing every piece of plastic I saw, geo-tagging the location to create an online map that showed the scale of the problem. And anyone who wants to can add to the map.Although rubbish increased around towns and cities, even remote areas had plastic bags lurking in trees or bottles in the water. On the May bank holiday, I saw towpath bins overflowing with rubbish that blew into the canals.I’m now on my next challenge. I revisited the worst four spots – Tamworth, Coventry, Stoke-on-Trent and Manchester – and collected all the rubbish I saw. I spent seven hours on the banks of the Trent, near where I live, netting 600 or so bottles into a “trash raft” which I then paddled along the river. The people I pass are always shocked to find out where the trash came from. The raft’s sitting in my garden right now and I plan to go out on it again soon. It took a lot of work. It’s going to be a family heirloom.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Plastic patrol … the map of clogged BritainI still feel quite emotional about my 400-mile journey: people would hear about me and come to cheer. Strangers brought food, sent messages, donated money. A groundskeeper gave me whisky and some canoeists invited me for a bacon sandwich and a cup of tea.One of the best paddleboarding tips is to keep moving forward as soon as you’re standing. That way, the board’s more stable, easier to control. Paddle, don’t idle. It’s good advice for life. • Lizzie’s campaign and map: lizzieoutside.co.uk. Interview by Homa Khaleeli.Surf, sand and cider … Lizzie’s favourite paddle spotsBryher, Isles of ScillyPaddling almost anywhere on Scilly, you will enjoy picturesque coastline and clear blue waters, but the tiny island of Bryher is spectacular. One side is pounded by the Atlantic and best avoided on a paddleboard, but the other, parallel to the island of Tresco, is all calm seas and sandy beaches – nothing but the sound of the water against the paddle and birds flying overhead (board hire: bennettboatyard.com). Isle of Arran, Scotland A friend of mine paddled around Arran last year and, having seen the photos, it’s been on my must-visit list ever since. Whiting Bay, he says, particularly the north section, was his favourite. It’s a remote, quiet area with easy access and runs for more than two miles. The water is calm if the winds are easterly, but conditions can get hairy if they are coming from the other direction. (adventurecarrick.com)  Mumbles, Wales Paddleboarding in the Mumbles, south of Swansea, has a unique British seaside vibe and the lighthouse at the end of the bay really adds to the charm. The area is relatively sheltered and, as you paddle underneath a centuries-old pier listening to the gulls circling above and the chatter of people out for a stroll, you get a great sense of the seaside. (bigblueadventures.co.uk)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mumbles lighthouse. Photograph: Alamy  Bigbury Bay / Burgh Island, Devon Bigbury Bay is quite small and can get very busy in peak summer, but don’t let that put you off. Paddling along the shoreline gives great views of the South West Coast Path. Looking out to the ocean you can see the tiny island of Burgh, which you can paddle up to and then enjoy a cider in the pub overlooking the bay. On the water itself, you can often see a variety of seabirds. (discoverysurf.com)  Morecambe Bay, Lancashire  I love the contrast of vast open water on one side and the Lakeland Fells in the distance on the other. That’s what makes Morecambe a genuinely special place to paddle – particularly when the winds are low and the waters are calm. As the sun begins to set in the early evening, you will be presented with a truly unforgettable view. (supnorth.co)