Snapshot: My brother Paul at my parents’ weddingThis photograph was taken at my parents’ wedding in July 1986. The little boy standing next to my mother is my elder brother, Paul, who is seven in this picture. The two girls next to him are my cousins, Linda and Helen. There’s a lot I like about this photograph: I like the way the confetti flutters over the couple, contrasting pleasingly with the greenery in the background. I like the way that my dad looks at his new wife. I also love the expression on Paul’s face as he looks up at my mum with a mixture of cheekiness and affection.My parents had met through a dating agency in September 1985. They were both in their late 30s by the time they married. My mother had been married before, and had been raising Paul, her son from that marriage, on her own before meeting my father. She came from a strict Irish Catholic background, which didn’t agree with divorce, so times had been tough for her. By Christmas 1985, my parents were engaged and they married the following summer. My mum didn’t think it suitable to wear white as a divorced woman, so settled on a pink suit. I was born two years later, in 1988.My parents celebrated their 30th wedding anniversary last year. Even though they have had their ups and downs, their marriage has turned out to be long-lasting.Sadly, Paul died in February 2014, at the age of 35. To me, this photograph encapsulates the youth and liveliness of a young boy and the hopefulness of childhood. I like to think that, at least in the photograph, Paul found a lasting sense of happiness and optimism. Claire ChambersPlaylist: The song that aired my mother’s fun side   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Donald, Where’s Your Troosers? by Andy Stewart“Let the wind blow high, let the wind blow low / Through the streets in my kilt I’ll go / All the lassies say: ‘Hello! Donald, where’s your troosers?’”In 1960 I turned 13, a rather serious only child. My father had died two years earlier, and my mother, Gisela, was grief-stricken, working full-time as a doctor and putting a lot of energy into my upbringing and education. She often seemed critical and demanding, and it would be many years before I came to appreciate that her ambition for me came only from love, and that she was very proud of me. Our relationship sometimes felt intense in contrast to those between my English schoolfriends and their parents: mine had come to Britain as refugees from nazism in 1939.Gisela’s musical tastes were European and sophisticated. As a middle-class Jewish teenager in a small town in the north of Romania, she had played a piano adaptation of the entire orchestral part of the Mendelssohn violin concerto to accompany a violinist friend; as a student in Prague in the 1930s, she had seen Lotte Lenya performing songs by her husband, Kurt Weill.But she loved popular comedy songs, and one of her favourites was Donald, Where’s Your Troosers? – especially the bit at the end where Andy Stewart does an impression of Elvis Presley. It’s hard to imagine today, but the words had the faintest hint of naughtiness in the respectable suburb where, as a little girl, I was given to understand that it was considered slightly rude to say the word knickers in public. My mum and I caught the song regularly on Children’s Favourites on the Home Service on Saturday mornings. The title became one of our catchphrases, bringing a smile to my mother’s face and reminding me that she had a sense of fun.She died in 2015 aged 102, deeply loved and respected. At her funeral, the music was the Vltava movement from Smetana’s Má Vlast, but in my eulogy I mentioned her fondness for Donald. In my mind’s eye, I could see her smiling.Maggie EisnerWe love to eat: My lentil slop      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caroline Barden’s lentil stew.Ingredients200–250g red lentils (rinsed)1 onion (finely chopped) Olive oil2 carrots (grated or diced)1 tin chopped tomatoes and 1 tsp tomato pureeA sprig of thyme, a handful of parsley and some seasoningCook the lentils in unsalted water until they make a thick puree. In another pan, fry the onion gently in olive oil until soft. Add the carrots and more oil, and cook until the carrots are just starting to change colour. Add the tomatoes, tomato puree and a splash of water and simmer this mixture, stirring occasionally, for about 15 minutes until the carrots are soft, the water is reduced and the resulting thick paste looks glossy. You may need to add a little more water during the process if it reduces too quickly. Mix the lentils with the vegetables and stir well over the heat. Add the herbs , and season to taste. Serve, but don’t be dainty – use a large ladle to slop it on to the plate! Next time, add in some variations – a teaspoon of turmeric in the lentils to give a lovely yellow colour and an earthy taste, squash or courgettes instead of carrots, extra tomato puree, a red onion, a squeeze of lemon or a garnish of grated cheese.I love cooking, and when my boys were teenagers, I was experimenting with vegetarian food. I collected recipe books where I could and borrowed them from the library – The Cranks’ Recipe Book, Rose Elliot’s Vegetarian Cookery, The Tassajara Bread Book, to name but a few. Life was busy with three growing boys, and on some days my part-time job, housework and chats about homework meant that I had very little time for tackling new recipes; then I turned to my staple – lentil stew, a rich sauce sweetened with onions, carrots and tomatoes, with a herby overtone of thyme and parsley.It could be eaten with anything – pasta, hot and buttery crusty bread, crispy roast potatoes, or even soft fluffy mash for a really comforting meal on a cold winter’s day – and always with a bright green vegetable to make it healthy. Meal times were all about exchanging news from the day, talking about friends and school, which teacher had said something they didn’t like and which band was on at the weekend, so no one commented much about what I served except to call the stew “lentil slop”. I took this as a rather derogatory term, but didn’t mind, because they ate it up without a fuss.Then, one day, my eldest boy telephoned me and admitted sheepishly that he had been interviewed on the radio while he was shopping in town, and had been asked to name his favourite dish cooked by his mum. Yes, you guessed it, he said “lentil slop”., on the radio, to the world. “Why did you choose that dish?” I asked, “and how could you say ‘slop’ on the radio?’ “Because that is my favourite dish,” he said “and I didn’t think about what it would sound like until after I had said it.”I was so pleased that it was his favourite dish, but I hoped no one I knew had heard his description.My boys come and visit with their own families now and I still serve them lentil slop; they have introduced it to their own boys and I have got over my embarrassment about the name. It doesn’t need exact measurements and so it is never the same twice.Caroline BardenWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.