US producer David Gest has left the Celebrity Big Brother house due to medical reasons.Viewers have seen Gest take to his bed over the last few days and Big Brother informed the audience he was under the weather.He missed the gunge task from the weekend and spent time confined in Big Brother’s spare bedroom.Celebrity Big Brother in new row after housemates think David Gest had died A Channel 5 spokesman said: “Due to medical reasons, David Gest has decided to leave the Celebrity Big Brother House.”His exit will be shown in tonight’s show. A tweet from his official account, made by his team said: “Sorry guys but DavidGest2016 is a bit poorly just now! When he is all fixed we will let ya know xx.”Gest was at the centre of a row in the house last week when US reality star Tiffany Pollard thought he was the David who had died, instead of David Bowie. Bowie’s ex-wife Angie confided in Pollard after being told the news of the Ziggy Stardust singer’s death. Talking to Pollard in the kitchen, Angie said: “Tiff, you’ve got to do me a favour. You can’t say a word. David’s dead.” Pollard assumed the David in question was Gest and started screaming before running outside to tell her fellow housemates the news. After checking on Gest, who was very much alive, Pollard ranted: “She (Angie) told me that David died. Why the fuck would she do that? She just told me that you were dead. That is so fucking - ! Why the fuck would she do that to me?” Kim Kardashian’s good friend, Jonathan Cheban, quit the house last week, citing its “bad vibe”. He told Big Brother in the diary room: “I just think that my time here is kind of expired. The house is not fun any more. “I’m not really in to fighting, Tiffany’s insane, and it’s just going to be a horrible situation here and I just don’t want to be a part of that situation. It’s getting down and dirty. “Everybody is getting terrible now, it’s a bad vibe in the house, so I really have to get out at this point.” He added: “I’m feeling very emotional because I’m sad that I’m going to go and say goodbye to everybody. I don’t want to be there and get anxious and claustrophobic and freak out about it.” Nancy Dell’Olio and Winston McKenzie have both been evicted from the house. The latest row to rock the house saw former Hollyoaks star Stephanie Davis threaten to punch Towie’s Gemma Collins. The pair exchanged heated words over Davis’s flirtation with fellow housemate Jeremy McConnell. Collins said: “It’s so wrong what you’re doing, you’ve got a boyfriend. I think you’re acting like an absolute disgrace.” Davis took offence and hit back with expletives. She later told Big Brother in the diary room: “If you let me back in that house I’m gonna end up doing something I regret. “Either if that’s punching Gemma Collins in the face which she deserves. She’s a fucking diva. People that do like her need to give their head a wobble because she’s disgusting.” 