Shakespeare Live! From The RSC8.30pm, BBC2 David Tennant hosts a 400th anniversary party for the bard from the Royal Shakespeare Theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon. Such is the reach of Shakespeare’s influence, guests range from Ian McKellen, Judi Dench, Meera Syal and Joseph Fiennes to performers from the Royal Ballet and the English National Opera. BBC4’s Arena strand provides a companion volume tomorrow night at 9pm, with All The World’s A Screen, a history of Shakespeare on film. Andrew MuellerThe London Marathon – A Million Reasons To Run 1pm, BBC1 Sure, there are a chunk of competitors in the annual race around the capital who are expert runners knocking off another milestone. But as you look upon that sea of faces tomorrow morning, take a second to ponder that tagging behind most of them is a rank amateur with a tale of extreme determination, often with an added drive to raise funds piqued by loss or adversity. To warm us up, Gabby Logan hears some of their stories. Jack SealeBritain’s Got Talent 8pm, ITV The guilty displeasure continues as the Ant and Dec-hosted talent contest trundles on. Tonight, more hapless and hopeful members of the public display their talents – or conspicuous lack of them – before judges Alesha Dixon, Amanda Holden, David Walliams and a smirking Simon Cowell. Which man, woman, child or dog will find favour with the panel, enjoy brief fame and then be catapulted back to the obscurity from whence they came? Tune in, find out. David StubbsArnie Schwarzenegger’s 50 Greatest Ever Stunts 8pm, Channel 4 Snaring the Austrian Oak himself to host a list show is a bit of a coup. Almost, perhaps, as impressive as the death-defying skills on show here, as he counts down the grandest, most dangerous stunts ever committed to film. As well as on-screen feats, he’ll also be hailing general show-offery, like Felix Baumgartner’s freefall from the stratosphere and that time Jean Claude Van Damme did the splits between two moving trucks. Ben ArnoldHinterland 9pm, BBC4 The Welsh noir returns for a second series of grim investigations. Tonight’s opener brings Tom Mathias out of seclusion to investigate an arson with fatalities, which in turn reveals a tale of neighbours caught in a dispute over land. Poisoned animals, failing farms…you wouldn’t say the series goes all out for glamour, but the grittiness of the material is made compelling by the gradual pace of the storytelling and painterly depiction of the scenery. John RobinsonGlen Campbell: I’ll Be Me7pm, Sky Arts When country music star Glen Campbell was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease in 2011, you’d be forgiven for assuming the Wichita Lineman might wind down his live appearances. Instead, the then 75-year-old picked up his guitar and, accompanied by fourth wife Kim and three of his children, began one heroic – and unforgettable – farewell tour. In this moving documentary, we follow his progress across the US, from Carnegie Hall to the Hollywood Bowl. Ali CatterallI’m Alan Partridge9pm, GOLD Saving comedy fans a trip to their DVD shelves (or their Netflix libraries), GOLD are showing the entirety of the superior first series over two nights. By now, most Partridge devotees will be capable of lip-synching along to each episode, so will doubtless be ready for a spot of Monkey Tennis, traders needing access to Dixons and an infected spinal column in a bap. Tomorrow, it’s unorthodox zombies, Sunday Bloody Sunday and The Best of the Beatles. Cashback! Mark Gibbings-Jones      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vincent Cassel and Gérard Depardieu in Mesrine: Killer Instinct Photograph: Publicity image from film companyFilm ChoiceThe Anderson Tapes (Sidney Lumet, 1971) 5.15pm, Sony Movie Channel Perhaps more relevant than ever now, Lumet’s clever caper shows how surveillance can reveal the smallest details, but may obscure the big picture. Sean Connery, moving on from 007, is a thief just out of prison and busy planning a big heist, unaware that every move is being spied on by government agencies. Paul HowlettMesrine: Killer Instinct (Jean-François Richet, 2008) 12.05am, BBC2 Richet’s crackling, brutal crime thriller tells the first half of the life story of ruthless French gangster Jacques Mesrine, who cut a swath of violence across France and Canada in the 60s and 70s. He’s played with intensity by Vincent Cassel, while Gérard Depardieu oozes menace as gang boss Guido. Part two, Mesrine: Public Enemy Number One follows. PHToday’s Live SportWorld Championship Snooker, 10am, BBC2 The second round continues. ATP Tennis: Barcelona Open, 12.30pm, Sky Sports 5 Day six of the clay-court tournament. European Champions Cup Rugby: Saracens v Wasps, 2.55pm, Sky Sports 1 An all-English clash as the semi-finals get underway. FA Cup Football: Everton v Manchester United 4.50pm, BBC1 Wembley hosts the first semi-final.