Name: Prue Leith.Age: 76.Next location: A big tent.Is Prue Leith going to host The Grand Tour? Wrong tent, I’m afraid. It has been reported that Prue Leith CBE – restaurateur, journalist, novelist and cookery school founder – may have been recruited as Mary Berry’s replacement for the new series of The Great British Bake Off on Channel 4.She’s going to be rubbish. Now, now, you’re just saying that because you’re still upset that Berry left the show when the BBC lost the rights last year.Quite right, too. Bezza’s a legend. Indeed. But Leith is a legend, too. This is her 57th year in the food business, during which time she has opened a Michelin-starred restaurant, written seven novels, founded a world-renowned cookery school and been made chancellor of Queen Margaret University in Edinburgh. She couldn’t be more qualified.Hang on, are you just being nice about her because she had a column in the Guardian once? No, I’m being nice about her because she seems like a good fit. She was solid as a judge on The Great British Menu, wasn’t she?Not really. She was often mean for the sake of being mean. Well, that’s true. In her worst moments on that series, she tended to be overcome by a sort of arbitrary sniffiness about perfectly good professionally made food.That won’t fit with the Bake Off’s trademarked chumminess, will it? Possibly not. But give her a chance. Berry was quite rubbish in the first series of Bake Off, remember, until she figured out how to avoid being steamrollered by Paul Hollywood.Ah, yes, Paul Hollywood. Will they get on? That’s harder to say. I’m sure they’ll be fine, once Hollywood has had a chance to bed in a new nickname for her.Pruzza? Leithy? Pru Pru? He’ll think of something. Anyway, stop worrying. Prue’s great and Bake Off is great and this whole thing will go off without a hitch.You’ll be watching when it airs on Channel 4, then? God, no. I’m no scab.Do say: “On your marks, get set, bake.”Don’t say: “Is it too late to replace Paul Hollywood with someone else as well?”