Indian Summers9pm, Channel 4Laughing children hurl colourful gulal powder at each other to mark the Holi festival, as a seeming attack is launched on the viceroy. Taking advantage of the wobbling hierarchy, Cynthia whispers in Ralph’s ear about ousting the big cheese and snapping up the post for himself. Meanwhile, poor Aafrin quietly soils himself as a slip-up leaves him wide open to arrest and he feels the grip of suspicion tighten around him. Stifling heat, bubbling passions and political intrigue as this stylish 1930s drama returns. Does the trick nicely. Julia RaesideAntiques Roadshow8pm, BBC1The Roadshow takes a detour to the east with a one-off special celebrating the art and culture of India, hosted at London’s BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir. Chequered Anglo-Indian history can’t be crammed into a single sentence, but there are reasons why seeing a succession of white Britons offered high valuations for artefacts taken from India generations ago sits slightly uneasily, not least given recent criticism of the Beeb regarding a lack of opportunities for non-white Britons. Mark Gibbings-JonesSteve Backshall’s Extreme Mountain Challenge8pm, BBC2Concluding part of Backshall’s ambitious Venezuelan expedition, where the buff naturalist and a squad of climbers attempt to scale a previously unconquered tepui, one of the intimidatingly sheer-walled tabletop mountains of Canaima national park. The “extreme” in the title is well-earned. Freak weather patterns and rockfalls create a tangible sense of peril, even if Backshall’s CBBC-honed presenting style can veer toward Partridge in moments of crisis. Graeme VirtueThe Night Manager9pm, BBC1 Having inveigled his way into Roper’s operation, Pine has a new job as the arms dealer’s “lead actor”. Pine also has a new name, Andrew Birch, an identity he’s expected to use to front a dodgy company. Corky isn’t impressed by these developments. “You are poison,” reckons the drunken but perceptive former soldier. Elsewhere, it’s clear there’s a (potentially quite literally) fatal attraction between Jed and Pine. A substantial drama that vividly conveys the moneyed seediness of Roper and his amoral associates. Jonathan WrightHoudini & Doyle10.15pm, ITVEnjoyable new show that fictionalises the real-life friendship of Arthur Conan Doyle and the illusionist Harry Houdini in the early 20th century. As you might imagine for something that features the very watchable Tim McInnerny and Stephen Mangan, it inclines to the comedy side of comedy-drama. Tonight, the pair unite as “special investigators” looking at the case of a nun who seems to have been murdered by the ghost of another nun who, claims a witness, has a motive. Unusually, it continues Thu, 9pm, ITV Encore. John RobinsonTelescope7pm, DiscoveryThe telescope is actually, as Nasa scientist John Mather eagerly points out, a time machine, allowing us to see millions of years into the past, thanks to the speed of light. Here, one is asked to bend one’s mind around the capabilities of the James Webb Space Telescope, the successor to the Hubble, due to be completed in 2018. It will be able to detect something the size of a bumble bee on the moon, 240,000 miles away. At 30 minutes this isn’t nearly long enough, so that’s criticism of a sort. The good sort. Ben ArnoldDogs Might Fly7pm, Sky1Jamie Theakston presents another episode of the bizarre quest to find out whether dogs can become pilots. If you put aside the bewildering premise, there’s lots of insight into dogs’ characters and capabilities. This week, the canines are making a Dog House movie, playing a cricket match and having their empathy levels scientifically assessed. Pray this furry experiment fails or one day you might board a plane and hear the words: “Ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain, Sox, speaking.” Hannah Verdier      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Freida Pinto in Slumdog Millionaire. Photograph: c.FoxSearch/Everett / Rex FeaturFilm ChoiceSlumdog Millionaire(Danny Boyle, Loveleen Tandan, 2008), 10pm, Channel 4So, for your £100 question, what proved to be the feelgood movie of 2008, scooping eight Oscars and a rajah’s ransom at the box office? Yes, it was Danny Boyle’s exuberant Mumbai love story about a smart kid (Dev Patel) and the Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? TV show. With the edge you’d expect from Boyle, it proved irresistible. Paul HowlettIn The House(François Ozon, 2012), 10.30pm, BBC4Ozon’s assured psychological comedy has literature teacher Germain’s (Fabrice Luchini) professional ennui washed away by the vivid creative writing of 16-year-old pupil Claude (Ernst Umhauer), who is fascinated by the idyllic middle-class life of a classmate – and his beautiful mother (Emmanuelle Seigner) in particular. The teacher, captivated, encourages the boy to inveigle his way further into the surrogate family, with darkly comical results. All this, and Kristin Scott Thomas as Germain’s art gallery owner wife, too. PH The Magdalene Sisters(Peter Mullan, 2002), 11.50pm, BBC2Mullan’s indictment of Roman Catholic repression is set in mid-60s Ireland in one of the Magdalene laundries, the institution where young “fallen” women were sent for spiritual cleansing and physical chastisement. The performances are extraordinary, particularly Geraldine McEwan’s vicious, hypocritical mother superior. PHToday’s best live sportT20 World Cup Cricket: Netherlands v IrelandWith Bangladesh v Oman to follow at 1.30pm. 9am, Sky Sports 2Snooker: World Grand PrixThe final from the Venue Cymru in Llandudno. 12.45pm, ITV4FA Cup Football: Arsenal v WatfordA double bill, with Manchester United v West Ham United to follow at 3.30pm. 1pm, BT Sport 2Six Nations Rugby Union: Scotland v FranceThe final match of the weekend from Murrayfield. 2pm, BBC1