When she was 15, Maria Schrader made a pilgrimage to East Berlin on her own. “I was a girl from the West. I wasn’t emotionally attached to the East. I didn’t have relatives there, my family wasn’t torn apart and then divided between East and West. I wanted to see what East Germany was like.”It was a poignant moment to realise that wish. In the early 1980s, the cold war was poised to heat up. Ronald Reagan had been elected US president and escalated mistrust by describing the Soviet bloc as an evil empire. Nato Pershing IIs and Soviet SS-20s were facing each other across the German border. By the time Frankie Goes to Hollywood had an armageddon-themed hit with Two Tribes in 1984, mutually assured destruction seemed possible.This is the era in which Deutschland 83, the Channel 4 spy thriller in which Schrader plays ruthless, wicked but captivating Stasi agent Lenora Rauch, is set. Schrader remembers those nuclear fears well. “I was raised in Hanover, which is a city that hosts all kinds of fairs – electronics, porn, weapons. My first political experience was attending an anti-nuclear rally in the city against one of these militaristic fairs. I remember very well how present the threat of a nuclear war was. My parents were social democrats and felt close to the peace movement.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Schrader (right) as Lenora in Deutschland 83. Photograph: Laura Deschner/PRIn 1980, the teenage Maria hitched from her home to the border between the two Germanys and then along the transit roads through East Germany to the heart of “the evil empire”. At the time, she was already an aspiring actor, drawn to East Berlin to pay homage to German playwright Bertolt Brecht by visiting his house in what is now the hipster district of Mitte. While East Germans were smuggling banned editions of Solzhenitsyn, Orwell and Shakespeare east, she returned to Hanover with the cultural bounty of the Soviet bloc – sumptuous but cheap editions of Brecht’s plays and piano scores by his musical collaborators, Kurt Weill and Hans Eisler (the man who, among other things, was responsible for the now neglected music to the East German national anthem).But something more profound than homage had lured Schrader east. We are strolling in the gathering gloom of the Parc Montsouris in Paris as Schrader takes a break from sound-editing her latest film in a nearby studio. “Despite everything that I knew that was wrong with the GDR – the censorship and political repression, surveillance, threat – I was attracted to the ideas of socialism, even though I realised how much the state corrupted it. When we talk of the fall of the Berlin Wall, ‘reunification’ isn’t the right word. Kohl [the then German chancellor] opened his mouth and swallowed East Germany up. So many people felt left behind and I believe that movements such as [the anti-Islam] Pegida still grow from the anger and bitterness of that time.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Schrader as Lenora with Jonas Nay, who plays her nephew Martin, in Deutschland 83. Photograph: Nik KonietznySchrader says that even as a teenager she was very aware of how different education was in East Germany. “They had a political upbringing, they had demands put on them from a very early age. They were brought up to believe you serve not only your interests but those of a bigger society. When I think of my youth it was disconnected from all of these things, it was completely individualised. Despite everything that was wrong with the GDR, to share a view of the world like that seemed and still seems appealing.”After the wall came down in 1989 and socialist East was swallowed up by capitalist West, a phenomenon called Ostalgie (nostalgia for the east) arose as some East Germans longed for their lost past, yearned for something bigger than the West’s promises of individualistic self-fulfilment and material wellbeing. And not only East Germans. “People of our generation feel Ostalgie,” says Schrader. “We’re not talking about a specific GDR, but a longing for something that’s about more than your personal preferences, what movie you’ll see tonight.”In Deutschland 83, that idea of self-sacrifice in favour of a higher, state goal is never far from the surface, no matter how corrupt and scheming the Stasi agents are. The story begins when Schrader’s character, a Stasi agent ostensibly working as an East German cultural attache in Bonn, sees Reagan’s “evil empire” speech on TV and realises that the cold war is entering a new phase – and that Nato’s military secrets need to be uncovered if the Soviet bloc is not to lose the conflict. To achieve this aim, she lures her nephew Martin, an East German border guard, to impersonate a West German general’s aide de camp (the real one having been murdered) to infiltrate Nato and steal its nuclear secrets.Lenora convinces Martin to risk his life as an undercover agent by cunningly mixing the personal and the political. First, she promises his mother will get a kidney transplant if he succeeds in his mission. Second, she turns Marxist Lady Macbeth, encouraging him to screw his courage to the sticking place. “She says in the first episode: ‘You can’t only think about your future,’” recalls Schrader. “She means that he must put the future of his country first.” That appeal to the national cause would never have worked had he been raised in the individualistic west.Deutschland 83 last year became the first German series to be shown on US TV, and now in Britain it has become one of very few German-language dramas to muscle its way on to a subtitled terrain dominated by Scandinavian shows such as The Bridge, Borgen and The Killing. Why, I ask Schrader, when Britain is sinking under the weight of Scandi box sets, do we get so few German TV dramas? “We haven’t made drama serials like the Scandinavians, with those through storylines, until now.” She suggests German TV has been too conservative. “With Germans you pitch an idea and the first question is name something you can compare it with that we have seen, while the Americans want something they haven’t seen before.” Maybe, thanks to Deutschland 83’s critical and popular success, that will change.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Schrader (left) and Juliane Köhler in Aimée and Jaguar. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/ShutterstockI tell Schrader the Guardian style desk is fascinated by her look in Deutschland 83. There is an Ostalgie in London for Lenora’s superb asymmetric hairdo, pursed and vividly red lips, blue eyeshadow above incontrovertible perma-glower and clothes that remind us that the 80s wasn’t all tragic padded shoulders and hairstyles that made people look as if they had put their fingers in a socket.Rather, Rauch is tough yet sexy, cool yet evil, and, the safe money says, smokes 40-plus a day. Never, Keri Russell’s satisfyingly scary KGB agent in The Americans notwithstanding, have we been so entranced by a ruthless woman bent on bringing down capitalism.Guardian fashionistas are hardly alone in finding Lenora and Deutschland 83 aesthetically captivating. The New Yorker described the show as “nearly as aesthetically aspirational” as Mad Men. The show is also, incidentally, a reminder of an era when Britain ruled the airwaves – Deutschland 83’s soundtrack, Nena’s 99 Luftballons notwithstanding, is a hit parade of Bowie, Eurythmics, New Order and, there’s no easy way to say this, Duran Duran.For all that Schrader is different in temperament and background from her character in Deutschland 83, the 50-year-old actor, screenwriter and director feels a bond with the scheming Stasi agent. “I know she’s corrupt,” Schrader says with a laugh over coffee after the photo shoot. “Lenora has no problem with getting western perfumes, no problem with blackmail. She doesn’t sacrifice, she feels blessed being in such a powerful position. She truly believes that she works and lives for a better world. And the end justifies the means.”But what resonates most for Schrader is that Lenora is good at, and enjoying, what she does. “She feels blessed. She thinks she’s making a career in a world that she loves. I do too. I think there’s a comparison.”Schrader certainly feels fortunate as an artist. She recently returned from São Tomé, an island off the coast of Gabon in West Africa, where she has been directing the film she is now editing, about the last years of exiled Austrian Jewish writer Stefan Zweig, starring Josef Hader and Barbara Sukowa. It is already being compared in Germany with some of the eviscerating films by Michael Haneke such as Amour and The White Ribbon.Schrader is best known in the English-speaking world for the 1999 film Aimée and Jaguar, based on the real-life passionate relationship between two women in Germany in the second world war, one of whom is a Jewish woman called Felice living under an assumed identity. That role earned Schrader the Silver Bear for Best Actress in 1999 and meant so much to her that she named her daughter, who is now 17, Felice. But she is famous in Germany as a director and writer, for her collaborations on 11 films with her former boyfriend Dani Levy and for her directorial debut Love Life, an adaptation of the novel by Israeli writer Zeruya Shalev. She is also a renowned stage actor in Germany and has just started rehearsals for a production of Peer Gynt at the Schauspielhaus in Hamburg, a theatre where plays have been eclipsed recently by real-life dramas.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Schrader (left) and Juliane Köhler in Aimée and Jaguar. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/Shutterstock“My theatre has been housing refugees. It all started when many of them sought refuge in our ticket office because they were being attacked by skinheads who turned up at the railway station across the street. During the next 12 weeks we opened the foyer by night and provided 50 beds to rest before they headed off to Denmark or other Scandinavian countries.”Schrader says she feels wretched that the goodwill towards refugees is disappearing in Germany following reports of mass sexual harassment of women by male refugees reportedly of Arabic appearance in Cologne on New Years’s Eve. She tells me she is sick of hearing the story that the Germans were so generous in opening their doors, and have been betrayed by ungrateful Arabs. “That’s the narrative. We were so welcoming and now we must stop because these people don’t deserve our kindness.” But, she suggests, that is a story used by Germans who didn’t want refugees in their homeland in the first place to justify their hostility.“The conservatives couldn’t care less about the rights of women not to be sexually harassed. These people have never respected women’s rights or homosexuals’ rights – the rights we fought for – and now they claim those rights as reasons for expelling immigrants or banning them. Ridiculous, disgusting. Just imagine that in a couple of years from now Europe might be ruled by mostly rightwing governments and turn into a fortress, leaving everything behind that initially built the European idea.”Schrader cites the case of the mayor of Bornheim, near Cologne, who last week banned male refugees from a swimming pool after reports that women there had been harassed by men from asylum shelters. That ban must be illegal, I say. “I hope so,” she replies. “But what annoyed me is that he was being interviewed. Why give him publicity, if not to encourage hatred for refugees?”Her argument is that, even if the sexual attacks on women in Cologne were by Arab men as claimed, their ethnicity or religion are irrelevant to the punishment of the crime. Certainly they shouldn’t be pretexts for racially profiled attacks on asylum seekers. “It’s getting out of proportion. No sexual harrassment is to be tolerated. But now it’s news in the papers when a man touches a woman’s butt. It happens a thousand times a day and no one feels the urge to write about it unless it’s a man with Arab origins.”In any case, she says, it’s not as though Arab men have a monopoly on sexual harassment. Indeed, she approvingly quotes a recent column in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that considered how many times female bar staff at Munich’s Oktoberfest would be groped and otherwise sexually harassed during theirs working day.And yet nobody is racially profiling the boozed-up autumnal gropers of Munich’s beer halls. “It is not new that someone grab a woman’s ass,” says Schrader. “Not that things like that are OK, but they cannot be used as an excuse for banning refugees.”Schrader is particularly sensitive to the issue of how refugees are treated. Why? “My mother was a refugee after the war. Many Germans were refugees after Hitler was defeated. That should make us more understanding of the plight of others.”It is dark as we wander back through Paris streets to the Metro. Germany, for all that it expected to take 1.5 million asylum seekers in 2015, is not the only country dealing with a huge influx of asylum seekers fleeing war zones in the Middle East. But other countries that have admitted large numbers of asylum seekers, she argues, haven’t had the same problems. “Do you think they have the same problems with sexual harassment by migrants in Greece? On Lesbos, there are 400,000 migrants. Problem? No. In Turkey, a huge number of migrants. Problem? No. It’s a German phenomenon.”Schrader detects something ugly in her homeland. “A friend said to me recently: ‘Now it’s time too find out if Hitler really did lose the war.’” By that, Schrader’s friend meant that the old contempt for other races may not have been eradicated in Germany. Viewed thus, the real-life drama, Deutschland 2016, risks becoming every bit as dark and compelling as Deutschland 83.• Deutschland 83 continues on Channel 4 on Sundays at 9pm. It is available for catchup on Walter Presents via All 4.