In the second part of this week’s Serial, host Sarah Koenig continues her mission to humanise Bowe Bergdahl. In Hindsight, Part 1, Koenig, with the help of Bergdahl’s longtime friends the Harrisons, paints a portrait of a “gentlemanly” young man with a fierce personal code of conduct, searching for his place in the world – and thinking the US army just might be it. It also revealed a fact that casual observers of the Bergdahl story may not have known, specifically that Bergdahl received a quasi psychological discharge – a “separation” in military speak – from the US coastguard and was not supposed to be able to re-enlist in the armed forces without a sign-off from a doctor, which he never received. It is a useful bit of background information in explaining as Koenig puts it, “why walking off your base might make sense if you’re Bowe Bergdahl”. Koenig – as well as listeners and probably the court martial – has one overarching question: did the army screw up by admitting Bergdahl in the first place? According to Dr Elspeth Cameron Ritchie, a longtime army psychiatrist who worked as the top advocate for mental health inside the Office of the Army Surgeon General, thinks Bergdahl’s acceptance into the military was pretty standard. Branches of the military just aren’t that good at sharing information. Besides, according to Ritchie, nothing in Bergdahl’s file would have disqualified him outright. He just wasn’t that psychologically unfit. She thought any real psychological issues would have shown up in basic training and by all accounts, Bergdahl thrived there.Not everyone agrees with Ritchie’s assessment, though. Dr Michael Valdovinos, who worked with the US air force and helped reintegrate Bergdahl after his release from captivity, thinks that in Bergdahl’s case the ball was dropped. Valdovinos believes that the army recruiter should have taken a closer look at Bergdahl’s past with the coastguard. “When you’re deciding to re-enlist someone, few things are more relevant than a prior separation,” Valdovinos wrote. Considering what ended up happening with Bergdahl, it’s hard to disagree. ‘Not a great messenger’As for Bergdahl, he re-enlisted because he wanted to be “a kung-fu fighter”. “I loved the idea of just basically just your hands and that’s it,” he told film-maker Mark Boal. Koenig adds that Bergdahl loved Bruce Lee, studied the samurai’s Bushido Code filled with honour and self-sacrifice, and was a self-taught student of military history. In an interview with Boal, Bergdahl said that he loved the historical soldiers, but ran into problems because he “had to be a modern soldier”. Bergdahl was prepared for the fact that life in the US military would not live up to his hopes of an honour-driven team, but just because you’re prepared doesn’t mean it’s easy. “It doesn’t mean you’re not going to struggle every step of the way, which is what ended up happening,” said Bergdahl. For Bergdahl, life in the military meant constantly seeing things “that shouldn’t be acceptable to anybody”, behaviours, rules and actions that needed to be fixed, improved or changed to be more in line with his code of conduct. According to Koenig, Boal’s interpretation of the situation is that Bergdahl was not “a casual deserter” but the opposite of that – “the rare person who will act, rightly or wrongly it turns out, but still who will act according to his principles and his principles are wrapped up with the institution that so many people now feel he betrayed”. As Boal described it: “It’s the disillusionment of someone who really believes in the army.” In short, Bergdahl just wanted the military to be better and thought walking off his base would start a conversation. “He wanted to be heard within the military,” said Boal, noting that Bergdahl is “not a great messenger” because “he behaved in a way that runs counter to every single military precept ever known since the dawn of time”.‘I know John Galt’Because Bergdahl was such a military man, at least from one angle, no one saw his desertion coming. In hindsight, though, at least one of his commanding officers, Greg Leatherman, Bergdahl’s former squad leader, noticed that Bergdahl wasn’t “adjusting to the deployment”. It wasn’t especially alarming behaviour, but he did want to alert his higher-ups. He told First Sergeant Pablo Jimenez, who told him to “shut the fuck up, no one needs to hear what a fucking E-5 has to say about a guy in my company”. In later reports, Jimenez didn’t remember the conversation and said Bergdahl never showed any red flags.While the military may have not seen any red flags, Bergdahl’s friends and family did in the letters and emails he sent, including long treatises on John Galt, the industrialist from Ayn Rand’s Atlas Shrugged. In a group email, Bergdahl wrote, “I will serve no bandit nor liar for I know John Galt and understand.” According to Koenig, the combination of Bergdahl’s Randian ideation, his take on the Bushido code, and life in the military was pushing Bergdahl to the brink. Kim Harrison received that email and knew something was amiss with Bergdahl. A few days later, she was notified that Bergdahl was missing, she later received a box from Bergdahl from Afghanistan with most of his belongings, including a copy of Atlas Shrugged. ‘Severe mental disease or defect’Bergdahl’s lawyer said that a “neutral army psychiatry board” concluded that back in June 2009, Bergdahl suffered from a “severe mental disease or defect”. In short, a well-regarded army forensic psychiatrist determined that at the time he walked off his base, Bergdahl suffered from a “schizotypal personality disorder”. Dr Valdovinos, who worked with Bergdahl after his release, agreed with the diagnosis, because of Bergdahl’s grand ideas, potential to misinterpret situations, and paranoia. Because stress can aggravate symptoms, Bergdahl’s basic training in the coastguard and the deployment to Afghanistan triggered his mental illness. Koenig thinks this will be part of Bergdahl’s defense at his court martial – and it sounds like a good defense. The army, however, disagrees: “At the time of the alleged criminal misconduct the accused was able to appreciate the nature, quality and wrongfulness of his conduct.” ‘You’re not wrong, Walter’For Koenig, this diagnosis validates Bergdahl’s side of the story, in that, if you have a paranoid, schizotypal personality disorder, it could seem rational to walk off your base to draw attention to your cause.Boal, however, always believed Bergdahl’s side of the story and doesn’t want the diagnosis to undercut Bergdahl’s arguments and complaints about the military and its priorities. “I keep going back to what someone said a long time ago, ‘I kind of agree with everything he said, but I still want to punch him in the face,’” said Boal. Many of Bergdahl’s fellow soldiers agree with the sentiment, which Koenig sums up as, “It’s like that line from The Big Lebowski, ‘You’re not wrong, Walter, you’re just an asshole.’”In a slightly strange self-referential scene, Koenig and her producer checked in with some of the soldiers to see if anything that Bergdahl has said in the podcast has changed their minds about Bergdahl. Some of his fellow soldiers seemed like they had softened towards Bergdahl and moved on, but many others were still angry at Bergdahl for deserting his brothers. “We all experienced the same thing, but we didn’t walk off,” said one. NotesTrump: I’d give Bergdahl back to the Taliban – I’d fly over and drop him offWhy a US army vet cast a Muslim-American woman to lead his Afghan war movieBowe Bergdahl: the full background briefing on his vanishing act as he faces life in jailObservationsThe fact that Bergdahl was an Ayn Rand fan should not be a surpriseThe military might need more mental health professionals on staffCan’t help but think of Bergdahl as Walter from The Big Lebowski now