Playwright Timberlake Wertenbaker was once one of Britain’s most celebrated female creative voices. Her best-known work, the modern classic Our Country’s Good, earned her an Olivier award when it opened at the Royal Court in 1988. It went on to scoop six Tony nominations on Broadway, and was followed by other theatrical successes including the highly acclaimed art world drama Three Birds Alighting on a Field. Wertenbaker’s path to sustained West End glory seemed a foregone conclusion. Then, inexplicably it seemed, the doors banged shut and the phone stopped ringing.“I got to feel nobody wanted me. We are told that women limit their own ambitions, but how many offhand remarks should you take?” she asks. “Eventually you feel out of step with what’s going on.”The pioneering playwright is busy enjoying a popular renaissance, with revivals of her work and a new play, Winter Hill. But, she argues, the situation for most women dramatists has not much improved during her absence. “It might seem there are more women playwrights today, but looking at the statistics it has not really altered. There’s perhaps more attention paid to young women now.”The work of female writers continues to be restricted to smaller theatres, Wertenbaker believes. “The question of the bankability of women writers is like passenger attitudes to female pilots. Some feel they would rather not fly.”It was this sense of inequality that lay behind her decision to desert the British stage for a decade: “I felt nothing was happening and got discouraged. I am a little shy and I have never been able to storm into a theatre and demand my play is put on, so maybe it was partly me.”Wertenbaker, who lives in north London with her husband, the author John Man, has been described as both uncompromising and reclusive. She certainly guards her privacy carefully, but spoke to the Observer about her period of disaffection with British theatre.“You can quite often have a play with a cast of 15 men, yet a play with mainly women is unusual. I write plays about men too, but can’t see why a theatre should feel that as it has one woman’s play programmed for a particular season, it doesn’t need two. It makes it difficult to survive long term.”During the fallow years that followed a run of less successful plays, Wertenbaker went to America, where she was born, to lecture on drama in Washington DC. After returning to England in 2006, she used her linguistic skills (she speaks four languages) to adapt and translate a series of works for radio and theatre. In the last couple of years, however, she has found herself once more at the centre of original writing for the stage. “Theatres have started coming to me again. The Royal Shakespeare Company has been good and I am writing something for them about a stateswoman at the moment. And I had My Father, Odysseus on at the Unicorn.”Her 2015 play Jefferson’s Garden, staged at the Watford Palace Theatre, was described by Guardian critic Michael Billington as “a stirring show about differing definitions of freedom and the nature of America”, and Wertenbaker is now planning another play for Watford’s artistic director, Brigid Larmour. In the same year, Our Country’s Good was revived at the National Theatre to much praise. The story about convicts sent to Australia in 1788, who put on a production of Farquhar’s Restoration comedy The Recruiting Officer, is based on Thomas Keneally’s book The Playmaker and has entered the repertory canon, as well as the school syllabus.“It’s popular because it is about theatre and so theatre people like putting it on,” she says. “I am not complaining, but I have written other plays as good.”Her new play, which premieres at the Octagon Theatre in Bolton on 11 May, tackles the boundary between political activism and extremism. Wertenbaker spent much of her childhood living in the Basque country, so says she has done a lot of thinking about social dissent. The theme of Winter Hill, she argues, is more relevant than ever. “There has been an increasing shutdown of lines of public resistance, and we are in a much more authoritarian world suddenly. I wanted to ask how you resist. How far can you go? And at what point do you go for violence, and at what cost?”Inspiration came from a walk on the hill above Bolton that gives the play its title. “You are suddenly in moorland, with the Pennines stretching infinitely in front of you. You can look down on Bolton and Manchester and yet it feels very wild somehow, despite the transmitter on top of it. It is full of configurations and quite beautiful. I am not sure everybody knows how precious it is,” she says.In her play, this hill is threatened with commercial development and a group of women attempt to defend it. “I would not call them environmentalists. They are just women and not politically engaged when the play starts. They have different attitudes to protest.”Her own pedigree of dissent derives more from her Basque childhood than the few hours she spent with protesters at Greenham Common in the 1980s. “Basque separatists have only just formally laid down their arms a few weeks ago. Friends I grew up with were involved and they talked to me about it. Now they have moved towards a cultural expression of their passions.”The play does not take a didactic line about protest, she says. “I am not a pamphleteer. I wanted to present people with all the valid arguments, and that is just as well because I change my mind all the time.”If Wertenbaker appears to be riding a comeback wave this spring, this is not the way she sees it. Her translation and adaptation work has never stopped. In 2015 she was behind BBC Radio 4’s high-profile New Year’s Day 10-hour version of Tolstoy’s War and Peace, and she is also the first writer to adapt the Italian literary star Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan books for performance, with the third title coming to Radio 4 soon.Wertenbaker’s productivity, she says, is enhanced by drinking green tea and by periods holed up in her Basque mountain cottage. “I work bankers’ hours and I don’t really believe in inspiration. A commission for a play is three quarters of the battle. It makes you focus. What really does it though is a production date!”Looking back at her rise to fame in the mid-1980s after her first hit, The Grace of Mary Traverse, there is not much trace of nostalgia. “I was not really ‘there’ when Our Country’s Good first went on in 1988. I had just lost my partner and I managed to write the play, but that was all.” There is, though, the memory of a hopeful moment for women’s writing. “I wasn’t alone, of course. There was Caryl Churchill, and other women who later got discouraged. There was one season at the Royal Court Theatre that was almost all written by women. Little did we know that would not happen again in the following decade.”For now, she takes comfort in the work of younger female dramatists she admires, such as Lucy Kirkwood, Alice Birch and EV Crowe. She has also mentored a few absolute beginners through the women’s theatre company Damsel Productions.Does Wertenbaker think she earned her reputation as “a difficult woman”? “Some people say I am arrogant and I probably am, intellectually. But people in the theatre find me easy to get on with, I think. I am not very diplomatic, so that may have put some people off. But a playwright should be a bit difficult, of course.”Winter Hill is at the Octagon, Bolton, from 11 May to 3 June. 01204 520661; octagonbolton.co.ukPROFILEBorn New York City, 1956, the daughter of journalist Charles Wertenbaker and writer Lael Wertenbaker.Grew up in the village of Ciboure in the French Basque country.1985 Won most promising playwright award for The Grace of Mary Traverse.1988 Created the award-winning Our Country’s Good with director Max Stafford-Clark at the Royal Court from Thomas Keneally’s book The Playmaker.1989-92 Acclaim for The Love of a Nightingale and Three Birds Alighting on a Field.2015 Adapted Tolstoy’s War and Peace for BBC Radio 4; Our Country’s Good revived at the National Theatre; Jefferson’s Garden premiered at the Watford Palace theatre.2016 Adapted Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan novels for Radio 4.2017 Winter Hill to premiere at the Bolton Octagon.