In The Dark Knight, which arguably ushered in the modern comic-book film era, the Joker’s “Why so serious” refrain is a call to arms in the face of mankind’s refusal to buy into his distinctive brand of psychopathic glee. Why bother with the burden of the human condition, wonders Heath Ledger’s killer clown, when it’s far easier to freewheel murderously through life without a care in the world?Nolan’s Dark Knight trilogy is often seen as the dark, brooding counterbalance to the cheerier Marvel movies that followed it. And yet in many ways, Ledger’s cackling, sociopathic performance supercharged the trilogy’s 2008 middle instalment in the same way as Joss Whedon’s diamond-cut dialogue rocket-fuelled 2012’s The Avengers. With a more sombre villain– Tom Hardy’s masked, muscular bully-boy Bane – followup movie The Dark Knight Rises was always going to struggle to compete.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hugh Jackman’s Wolverine has punched beneath his weight on the big screen as often as not for the same reason: just a little too serious, a mite too earnest. Not even Michael Shannon’s gurning General Zod could spice up the ultra-poker-faced Man of Steel (as it’s virtually impossible to write Superman as anything other than a hideously straight-arrow kinda guy). Fortunately, this year’s crop of comic-book epics look like offering a return to the kind of spiky, nuthouse chicanery peddled so successfully by Ledger in his final, finest hour. I’ve already discussed in this column how Suicide Squad, with its punky insouciance and cast of lovable sideshow freaks, looks likely to be the standout early debutant in Warner Bros’ planned slate of 10 DC Comics-based movies between now and 2020. But we can also include Deadpool, with its foul-mouthed antihero villain and X-rated funnies, as an example of the new irreverence. Even Guardians of the Galaxy, with its lighter tone, falls into the same gloriously off-message pool, while the first Kick-Ass movie also did a lot to reinvent the zeitgeist.Suicide Squad's Harley Quinn is the new killer queen bee of superhero movies Given the issues studios have had recently with bigger names like Superman and Spider-Man, maybe they’re better off developing less famous faces with enough attitude to shake things up on their own, irrespective of franchise connections. Would audiences have reacted any differently to the leaked test footage of Ryan Reynolds that inspired 20th Century Fox to greenlight the upcoming Deadpool movie had the Merc with a Mouth not been a little-known X-Men regular? Would Chris Pratt’s impish Star Lord have been anything less of a hit without his loose connection to the wider Marvel universe? Deadpool is a case in point. In 2009, Fox used the same character, played by the same actor, in the misfiring X-Men Origins: Wolverine, but gormlessly torpedoed the mentally unstable mercenary’s USP by sewing up his mouth for half the film. Fortunately, fans were reminded of a brief, earlier scene of wisecracking cool when the test footage went viral – but what a pity it took seven years for producers to work out this is exactly the kind of jive-talking weirdo who thrives on the big screen.We’re living in an era when a single well-made trailer can launch a new superhero into multiplexes just as capably as an army of long-term fans. Hence, Lionsgate’s confidence in casting the currently red-hot Elizabeth Banks as the fairly obscure Power Rangers villain Rita Repulsa in an upcoming film based on the low-budget 1990s kids show.Let’s face it, Power Rangers was always rubbish. But Banks is an actor of rare comic talent, and the preposterous, multi-coloured superheroes might just morph into something genuinely brilliant on the big screen. It worked for the once equally uninspiring-in-principle Lego Movie. And if comic-book movies aren’t about a little scenery-chewing bombast – whether it be the spiky Ledger-style variant or the more effervescent Whedonesque variety – what exactly are they for?