Noel Edmonds, the TV presenter and enthusiast for “positive radio” projects, has become embroiled in a Twitter storm after claiming that a small box of electronics has all manner of health benefits.The host of Deal or No Deal and former acquaintance of Mr Blobby, announced on Twitter that the “simple box” slowed ageing, reduced pain, lifted depression and stress, and even tackled cancer. “Yep tackles cancer!” he emphasised.Noel Ernest Edmonds (@NoelEdmonds)A simple box that slows ageing, reduces pain, lifts depression and stress and tackles cancer . Yep tackles cancer! pic.twitter.com/krL9sXlpbyJune 7, 2016The comments unleashed a wave of criticism from onlookers who said the TV presenter was promoting dangerous pseudoscience. One man on Twitter, who uses the name Vaun Earl and who says he has kidney cancer, accused Edmonds of “quackery”, prompting the presenter to fire back that the man’s cancer might have been caused by his “negative attitude”. The new miracle cure: magic beans! Dean Burnett In response, Vaun Earl noted that he would rather consult his oncologist, who has 15 years’ experience of treating cancer, than Mr Edmonds. “I don’t even mind Noel Edmonds using and offering ‘positivity’ tools. But cancer cures is a step too far,” he tweeted.The box in question, made by Swiss Bionics Solutions, sends electrical signals to copper coils in a mat that consequently produce small, varying magnetic fields. The fields are no stronger than Earth’s natural magnetic field.Noel Ernest Edmonds (@NoelEdmonds)@VaunEarl Scientific fact-disease is caused by negative energy. Is it possible your ill health is caused by your negative attitude? #exploreJune 7, 2016Wolfgang Jaksch, the CEO of the Swiss Bionics Solutions, told the Guardian that the company makes no medical claims at all for the device, adding that it would be illegal for them to suggest it can help treat cancer, lift depression or slow down the ageing process. Instead, Jaksch said the device is meant to promote general well-being, relaxation and to assist with treatments for pain.“These people are desperate,” Jaksch said, referring to patients with cancer and depression. “We cannot utilise the desperation of people to make business. This is against our philosophy,” he said.Edmonds went on to endorse a similar product on Twitter, called EMPpad, which uses a tablet to control magnetic fields. His promotion of the device has led to at least one complaint to the Advertising Standards Authority. The organisation said it was investigating the tweets “urgently”. 