Consider this. In September it emerged that the communities secretary Eric Pickles had intervened in 50 planning applications for windfarms since June in the previous year, refusing 17, passing two, with the others pending. This reflected his concern, stated in parliament, that: “Insufficient weight is being given to local environmental considerations like landscape, heritage and local amenity.”This is the same Eric Pickles who decided not to call in plans for Elizabeth House, a tower in Waterloo whose effect on views of the Westminster World Heritage Site is likely to activate Unesco’s threat to declare this area “at risk”. Mr Justice Collins, who last March reviewed the legality of Pickles’ decision, gave it the less-than-ringing endorsement: “It may be a surprising view to take, but I am not persuaded that it quite reaches the level of irrationality.”In other words, if someone wants to build renewable energy sources that will make a long-term contribution to the national power supply, Pickles will forget his often-stated principles of non-intervention and crawl all over the proposals. If someone wants to build towers that permanently change one of the country’s great urban places, he will usually stay out of the argument. None of which much bothers Pickles, who is probably more concerned about voters in the Tory shires. Which is not say that due scrutiny of windfarms is unimportant, but that the same standards should be applied across town and country.Last week the London Borough of Lambeth, which Mr Justice Collins had asked to reconsider Elizabeth House, approved it again. Unesco, which had been awaiting this decision, is now likely to put Westminster on the danger list.This week another proposal for residential and office towers in Waterloo, a cluster around the 1960s Shell Centre, will have its day in court. Unlike Elizabeth House, the Shell Centre development was subjected to and approved by a public inquiry (consistency in these cases is nonexistent), but it is being legally challenged on the basis that the handling of the inquiry was so perversely loaded in favour of the development as to be invalid.George Turner, the local resident who is leading the legal challenge, argues that the inspector who ran the inquiry was plain wrong when he asserted that the development would cause no harm to the setting of the Palace of Westminster and wrong again when he said that no one in the inquiry had claimed that it did. Also in saying the Grade-I listed Royal Festival Hall would not be affected by seven towers immediately behind it. Also when he said that the loss of open space in the new scheme, from 7,620 to 2,825 square metres, largely deprived of sunlight, was in accordance with policy. It was a victory hard won by bodies such as the National Trust that current policy does indeed protect open space.Turner questions the figures supplied by the developers on the project’s viability, on the basis of which they pleaded that they could afford no more than 20% of affordable housing, half of which would be in another location.He claims that figures presented to potential investors suggested that the project would be far more profitable than planners had been told. Turner further alleges that the inspector was liberal in allowing the site’s developers to run over time and hand in key evidence late, and correspondingly tough on the objectors. A retired planning inspector has supplied a witness statement in which he says that he has “never seen an inquiry run in such a prejudicial and unfair manner”.As is by now well known, such developments do little to meet London’s real, acute housing needs, being largely sold as investment vehicles. According to Peter Rees, former chief planning officer to the City of London and therefore not exactly Marxist-Leninist, these developments are not communities, but “stacks of safety deposit boxes”.One can only hope that the power of Turner’s arguments is heard, rather than the weight of lawyers on the other side. If he loses, the implication is that almost anything is acceptable anywhere. If he wins, it might finally oblige applicants and planners to take seriously the real impacts of the towers they propose and approve. In London it might require the city’s government to go away, do some work, use their brains or other people’s, and think of how they might truly address London’s housing need.