Below is this week’s playlist – picked by a reader from the comments on last week’s blog. Thanks for all your suggestions. You can read more details of the weekly format of Readers recommend at the end of the piece.When you ponder too long – and trust me, collecting any coherent thoughts to commit to paper has definitely made me ponder too long – it dawns on you that “zeitgeist” is brief of definition but open-ended in application.Put simply, the “spirit of the age/times” that songwriters are capturing has to be more than a fad …But if enduring popular fascination is key, then surely a song that captures the zeitgeist should only come along once or twice in a generation? We thus have a compromise in this week’s list of 12 numbers covering a timespan of 60 years, identifying some aspects of what the spirit of the times has been, and what it could – dare I say should – be again.If it sounds like I’m still overthinking this, rest assured everything on the A-list was selected as having a genuinely enjoyable tune. Regardless of topic-appropriateness, if the melody didn’t improve my day, it missed the cut. I don’t want to single anything out, but that’s why the Specials’ Ghost Town fell at the final hurdle. I blame Father Ted.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist. If you prefer,click here to listen through Spotify.DaddyPig said of Meghan Trainor’s All About That Bass, which starts our list: “May every generation find the voice to help them cope with the challenges they face. Thank goodness for acceptance, a sense of fun, for shaking whatever you’ve got …” She does it in some style.Next, Garageland by the Clash – now that’s what it was like back in the day. You could annoy your parents’ neighbours by getting your 14-year-old mates round and creating a terrible racket in the garage. Talent was optional; electrical extension cables essential.After Kent State: 1970s anti-war student art – in pictures In May 1970, students protesting against Richard Nixon’s invasion of Cambodia during the Vietnam war clashed with the Ohio National Guard on the Kent State University campus. Four students were shot dead in a flashpoint that became the focus of a deeply divided nation. Harvey Andrews’ Hey Sandy makes salient points in memorable style; Bobby Darin reinforces them in Sing a Simple Song of Freedom.The “spirit of the times” box was comprehensively ticked by mikedow, referencing Peggy Lee’s pre-women’s liberation plaint, Black Coffee. A joy to discover. Already familiar but equally welcome was Ron Goodwin’s arrangement of Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines – the theme “from the film-tiddly-ilm of the same name”. Irresistibly relevant in capturing the early days of flight.   Fintan28 18 March 2016 10:53pmOoh! This is still brilliant beyond imagining.Inner City Blues ( Make Me Wanna Holler)Rockets, moon shotsSpend it on the have notsMoney, we make itFore we see it you take itOh, make you wanna hollerThe way they do my lifeMarvin Gaye’s words in Inner City Blues were the only lunar reference to reach the A-list. Despite the space race being undoubtedly zeitgeisty, I wasn’t anticipating Gaye would be the man to nail it.I can remember the first moon landing, thus Foxes’ Youth might not be aimed at me. The song is a definite spirit-lifter, though, and rubbed shoulders interestingly with the sentiments (“The State he began, has been propping up people too long”) of We Are All Bourgeois Now by McCarthy.Scott McKenzie has to be on any zeitgeist list. I think that might actually be the law. So here’s San Francisco.Even folk with reservations about the rest of these choices might want to lend an ear to Johnnie Taylor’s I Am Somebody. It’s a civil rights movement-inspired soul anthem, says BlackCombe, and it deserves to be heard.Finally, what can I say about Three Lions by Baddiel & Skinner & Lightning Seeds that hasn’t been said before? Well, with my nationality tucked safely away, I could suggest that this particular subject may be less zeitgeist and more schadenfreude – along with angst, that’s just part of the Caledonian gestalt. And on that note, I’m backing slowly away from the dictionary.New theme The theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on Thursday 24 March. You will have until 11pm on Monday 28 March to make your nominations.Next week’s playlist will be assembled by treefrogdemon. Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:• If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com or add it here via GuardianWitness.• There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.• Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.