Staithes might not have quite the same resonance as Bloomsbury or St Ives, but for a period in the early 20th century this North Yorkshire fishing village was one of the most exciting artistic communities in the country. A young Laura Knight, moved here after being told there was no place like it for painting, and became a leading light of the Staithes Group. This legacy drew artists Paul Czainski and his wife Chris to visit Staithes 11 years ago. By the time they left, they had bought a fisherman’s cottage thought to date from the 15th century.“I had a desperation to be beside the sea,” says Blackpool-born Chris, who made the move from Hebden Bridge. “Paul and I had both loved Staithes for a long time,” says Chris, “and the minute we walked into the cottage, that was it.”Tudor Rose Cottage rises like a wedge of cake to a fifth-floor studio with views over a village undisturbed by time. Grassy cliffs loom above the working harbour, where a cluster of wind-whipped cottages remain home to a mix of artists and fisherfolk.But a centuries-old cottage doesn’t come without a few surprises. “The builders told us they’d found a wall which was made of stone,” says Chris. It turned out the wall was hundreds of years old: “locals would build homes for newlyweds using stones, bricks from the beach and salvage from the visiting ships.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Still life: inside the cottage, with its original beams and assorted curios and sculptures based on birds and driftwood. Photograph: Katie LeeA basement workshop now functions as a spacious kitchen hugged by original wooden beams painted a cheerful blue. Thick brick walls, which Chris has embossed with ammonites, are dressed with all the nautical trimmings: a portrait of a weathered fisherman looks quite at home among a mix of church candles, glass fishing orbs and old nets. “That’s Henry Freeman, the only survivor of the 1861 lifeboat disaster in Whitby,” explains Chris. “I knitted his beard and made him a life vest from driftwood before painting him with acrylics.”The work of the “Fabulous Czainskis” ranges from sculptures and collages to specialist taxidermy and illusional paintings. The couple’s sense of playfulness is tangible. In 2013 Paul and Chris transformed their seaside home into a museum of curiosities for the annual Staithes Art and Heritage Festival, creating more than 90 weird and wonderful exhibits which have since found their resting place around the cottage. On the mantelpiece there’s a young seagull with plastic toddler’s legs, a pheasant with a doll’s head and a Barbie riding a squirrel.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   “I had a desperation to be beside the sea,” Paul Czainsk, with his wife Chris, by the beach. Photograph: Katie Lee“We had such fun – people asked us if our museum was open all year round,” says Paul, whose trompe l’oeil paintings have been commissioned by Ringo Starr, the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire and Nicky Haslam. “It also turns out everybody has lived in this house! People told us that horses were once stabled in our kitchen.”Paul and Chris’s bedroom lies at the cottage’s core – a calming mix of creams and pinks, flooded with sea-bouncing light. The guest bedroom – where the couple’s 12 grandchildren take it in turns to stay over – is a mix of wood and wicker, featuring shells and driftwood.Inspired by the artistic wanderings of the Staithes Group, the Czainskis have begun holidaying at Lamorna Cove in Cornwall. But it’s the north that lures them back again. “You go away and you can’t wait to come home,” says Paul. “Staithes is wild, yet it feels like such a safe place to be. We feel like we’ve stepped into another world.”Paul and Chris Czainski’s exhibition William Blake “Resurrection” will be at Gabriel Fine Art, London, in November (czainski.com)