Philip Kingsley, who has died aged 86, began his career sweeping hair from the floor of a Bethnal Green salon, and broke through the shame barrier around thin or limp locks in both sexes to become the senior trichologist for celebrities and the beauty business. Kingsley took hair, and its effect on confidence, seriously, and made of his affinity with it a considerable business in the form of clinics, products and a waffle-free manual, The Hair Bible (2003).He was candid that his lifelong interest went back to his apprenticeship in his uncle’s shop, which he began just out of school at 14, in 1944, as he needed to earn to help his East End rag-trade family: his father, Barney, a tailor, mother, Dora, a seamstress, and siblings. Women on war work had money to spend on their appearance, but hat materials were unavailable, so many paid instead for perms and dos to make the most of their hair. Contemporary chemicals were brutal – ammonia for perms, hydrogen peroxide for lightening: there were no conditioners, styling preparations or emollients for shine. Even basic shampoo was hard to come by, and generic since there was no textural classification of hair (he later codified this).Kingsley had wanted to be a doctor, but could not afford the years of education, so he saved to take a correspondence course with the Institute of Trichologists, studying scalp dermatology and hair cycles. He qualified in 1953, and improvised treatments in a side-room in a Mayfair salon. (As a boy, he had dialled phone numbers beginning with the letters MAY, just to hear how the one per cent talked.)When Kingsley had enough clients to open his own clinic in 1957, his first move was to a room off Baker Street, among denture-fitters and orthopaedic cobblers. Over the next decade he migrated to permanent premises in Green Street, Mayfair. He reluctantly opened his Fifth Avenue, New York, clinic in 1977, at the request of American celebrity clients.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Audrey Hepburn and Sean Connery in Robin and Marian, 1975. Photograph: SNAP/Rex FeaturesKingsley was honest (even to Laurence Olivier, an early patron who forwarded him actors from his new National Theatre company) that male-pattern baldness was genetically pre-determined, as was a rarer, related, female condition. Otherwise he insisted that all hair could be much improved through diet and kind care – many women treated its living growth more carelessly, even cruelly, than they would ever do their clothes.Hats had ceased to be daily wear by the mid-1960s, and the fashion began, and continues, for extreme length, volume and shine in women’s hair. Movie and fashion beauties had a hard time complying with this, because studio lights, and aggressive styling punished their hair; Kingsley’s most successful product, Elasticizer, was first formulated especially for Audrey Hepburn (she had booked to see him under her married name; he wasn’t quite sure he recognised her), to stop her hair breaking after over-colouring and teasing on the set of Robin and Marian in 1975. Kingsley was a longstanding driver of the change that made “health and beauty” a major subdivision of fashion culture, no longer discreetly hidden. Jean Shrimpton, Jane Fonda, Cate Blanchett, Gwyneth Paltrow, Victoria Beckham and many others publicly acknowledged his services.Kingsley formalised his products into a retail line in 1983. He was protective of its quality, reclaiming the licence to produce it from Eli Lilly in 1987, and later from another corporate buyer, and was involved in its tests to the last. He claimed to have told a journalist about “bad hair days” around 1960 – he certainly established the close link between hair condition and psychology – although the first recorded public use of the phrase dates from 1992.He is survived by his wife, Joan, their daughters, Anabel and Kate, and his daughters Sue and Helen from an earlier marriage.• Philip Kingsley, trichologist, born 4 June 1930; died 4 September 2016