The Guardian children’s fiction prize was founded in 1967. It is awarded annually to fiction written for children aged eight and above, and is the only children’s fiction award selected by fellow writers.Previous winners of the prize include Mark Haddon for The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, Northern Lights by Philip Pullman, How I Live Now by Meg Rosoff, The Illustrated Mum by Jacqueline Wilson, Frank Cottrell Boyce withThe Unforgotten Coat, Piers Torday with The Dark Wild and last year’s winner David Almond with A Song for Ella Grey. David Almond wins Guardian children's fiction prize This year’s prize will be judged by David Almond (last year’s winner with A Song for Ella Grey), Kate Saunders (author of Five Children on the Western Front, which was shortlisted for the prize in 2015) and SF Said (author of Varjak Paw, The Outlaw Varjak Paw and Phoenix, which was shortlisted for the Guardian children’s fiction prize in 2014). Thank you SF for stepping in a moment’s notice after Laura Dockrill had to pull out of the judging panel this year.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Almond (left), winner of the Children’s fiction prize 2015 together with 2014 winner Piers Torday. David will be judging this year’s prize. Photograph: James Drew Turner for the GuardianThe judging will be chaired by Julia Eccleshare, Guardian children’s books editor and observed by Guardian children’s books site co-editors Emily Drabble and Michelle Pauli. The longlist of eight authors will be announced in July (when the Young Critics Competition, where children review the books on the longlist for the Guardian children’s books site, will also be launched).The winner will be announced in November 2016 at a ceremony at the Guardian offices in London.The deadline for submissions is midnight Tuesday 22 March 2015 (with all books received by Wednesday 30 March 2016).Eligible titles must be published between 1 August 2015 and 31 July 2016 and must have been published first in the UK. Previous winners are not eligible.Please complete the online form here after reading the Ts andCs which you’ll find in the link - and then post a copy of the confirmation voucher and your submitted title/s (the books) to: Matt Smith, Guardian Children’s fiction prize, The Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU to be received no later than midnight on Wednesday 30 March 2016. If you have any problems with the form please email childrensfictionprize@guardian.co.uk. And we are pleased to say that this year publishers can enter multiple books in one entry, which should make things a bit easier! We can’t wait to receive your entries, and may the best book win…      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 