The chief executive of the British Bankers’ Association sees Britain as being on a “cliff edge” in terms of trade in financial services with the European Union. More than £20bn of trade a year could be “at risk” (“Brexit politicians are putting us on a fast track to financial jeopardy”, Comment). This sum needs to be placed in a broader perspective. Just eight years ago, the bailout of the Royal Bank of Scotland involved £45bn of taxpayers’ money. Between 2007 and 2010, Treasury support of the banks in terms of cash and guarantee commitments amounted to well over £1,162bn. Anthony Browne describes banking as Britain’s “biggest export industry”, but it has also to be credited with being the country’s biggest debt import industry.Ivor MorganLincolnAnthony Browne says “Brexit means Brexit and we are all Brexiters now”. However, many of us want neither a soft nor a hard Brexit, but no Brexit at all – we are not Brexiters.The Leave campaign peddled a series of lies (“We send £350m a week to the EU”) and promises that its leaders were in no position to make (“... and the money will go to the NHS”), in other words, a false prospectus to the voters. If Mr Browne’s merchant bank colleagues backed a prospectus to sell shares on such a basis, they and the company directors involved would be debarred from office, fined or possibly sent to jail. Many of those who led the Leave campaign are, however, now in positions of authority in government.The politicians seeking to remain in whole or in part within the EU, notably the SNP in Scotland and the Liberal Democrats, deserve vocal and real support.SG KayEdinburghSaving our precious forestsWell done for raising the profile of tree health and the growing number ofthreats from pathogens often brought in by accident through international trade. Your article “The enemy within: foreign invaders infiltrate Britain’s ancient woodlands” (News) placed great emphasis on vigilance and response. This is absolutely right. However, we should consider all options, including making our forests more resilient.We need to acknowledge that tree species and forests are naturally dynamic and change in response to their environment. Natural selection acting on genetically diverse populations may allow tree species to cope with pathogens; species diversity in a landscape helps to minimise the impact of losses in any one of those species. To encourage people to explore these ideas, seven research institutes have recently launched a computer game, informed by the science, which lets players manage their own forest landscape. I would encourage readers interested in tree health to try Caledon either online or at the App Store. It is a sad fact that much of our forestry has been of single-species plantations in which diversity and natural regeneration have been overlooked opportunities for building resilience. We need an enlightened approach that learns from the natural processes that have maintained tree and forest health in the past, not just more vigilance.Max ColemanScience communicatorRoyal Botanic GardenEdinburghWorse than in Loach’s film Jack Munro is right to affirm the truth in Ken Loach’s I, Daniel Blake, (Viewpoint) but, gruelling though the film is, it only portrays the tyranny of the Department for Work and Pensions. Worse still, other authorities bear down simultaneously on vulnerable single households. After jobcentres impose benefit sanctions, local authorities enforce rent and council tax arrears. Magistrates rubber-stamp 3.5m council-tax-liability orders a year, allowing councils to enforce arrears and to send in the bailiffs, adding fees up to £420. Magistrates also impose fines for poverty-related offences such as TV licence and fare evasion that cannot be paid during a sanction but pile up, leading to a call from the bailiffs. The benefit sanction is a penalty that lingers on indefinitely in debt, hunger and ill health for months after it has formally ended.The Rev Paul NicolsonTottenham, LondonWar and peaceHow saddened I was to read in the “Five of the best” series that you are recommending that families should visit the Tank Museum in Dorset. (Travel, last week). Do you really wish young people to equate war with fun? How jolly to play games and dress up. How diverting to see a display of tanks in action, firing ammunition. I suggest a visit to the Peace Museum in Bradford as an antidote.Marion ColemanTruroAbout a boyOur mum read us your article about boys reading less than girls (News). We think we are good readers. Our favourite authors are: Roald Dahl (Alex) and Edward’s are Rick Riordan and JK Rowling. Here are some of our tips to encourage boys to read:• Try to challenge yourself a little bit, not too much.• Read every word. If you don’t understand a bit read it again and again until you do. Or look it up in a dictionary.• For young readers, start off with Dr Seuss.• For more confident readers, try Percy Jackson or Stig of the Dump.Edward and Alex McAndrew (aged nine and six)St Albans, Hertfordshire