As the people of Pripyat, a once bustling Soviet city built for the workers of Chernobyl, will tell you, evacuation from a nuclear disaster is a one-way ticket. Nearly 26 years later, time is frozen. The hammer-and-sickles still hang from the lamp-posts as they did on the day the town's residents were told to get on the buses. A similar fate awaits many of the 80,000 evacuated a year ago from Fukushima. The Japanese government is raising hopes of an early return to the evacuation zone, and there are parts of villages to which former residents could move back this spring – if they wanted to. But life without neighbours, or the region's traditional livestock and fishing industries, would be a shadow of its former self.Much of this area – particularly towns like Okuma, near the perimeter of the stricken nuclear plant – is as doomed as Pripyat. As our reporter found out when he was allowed in on Tuesday, groceries sit untouched on the shelves of a convenience store, cars abandoned in a supermarket car park. The only signs of life are the beeping monitors alerting visitors to the invisible foe. It could take decades for cleanup workers to get all the fuel out of the reactors – if indeed they ever succeed.The world is in awe of the speed with which Japan cleared the rubble from the tsunami that devastated its north-east coastline, but it is now clear that the nuclear disaster could have been an even bigger catastrophe than the tsunami that triggered it. Had the Fukushima Daiichi power plant been abandoned, as the company who ran it, Tepco, wanted to do, it could have unleashed a chain reaction of plant meltdowns that could have resulted in the evacuation of Tokyo. This is the doomsday scenario, but according to a leaked report of the Rebuild Japan Initiative Foundation – a team of university professors, lawyers and journalists who spent six months investigating Japan's response to the triple meltdown at the plant – it could all too easily have happened.Tepco's senior management emerges worst of all from this report. The former prime minister Naoto Kan, who was distrustful of Tepco and relied on advisers who had no experience of an emergency of this magnitiude, comes off slightly better. The unsung hero is the plant manager Masao Yoshida, who kept on injecting seawater into the stricken reactors.With just two of its 54 nuclear reactors in operation, Japan is importing coal and oil as if there is no tomorrow – and no Kyoto protocol, whose emissions targets it will now not meet. Japan's overreliance on nuclear power as a "clean" alternative to coal- and oil-fired stations should give the world pause for thought. Britain is now going down the same route. The debate is complex, but it must not assume the same thing couldn't happen here. That's what they said in Japan after Chernobyl.