Britain’s cycle infrastructure is a mess, but there may be hope. Across the country, there are signs that councils and other local authorities are at least beginning to be aware of the demands for safe, attractive facilities that can be enjoyed by people of all ages.HorshamDistCyclForum (@CycleForumHorsh)Back to the future: Riding an unopened section of London's east-west cycle route. Can't wait for it to be finished! pic.twitter.com/rSeXp0v1a3September 28, 2015London’s new and - we hope - improved superhighways are in various stages of completion, while other schemes are popping up around Britain, in cities such as Bristol, Manchester (though Helen Pidd isn’t impressed with the city’s efforts), and Edinburgh. Manchester News MEN (@MENnewsdesk)Manchester's cyclists welcome new Dutch-style bike lane – first of 13 for Oxford Road http://t.co/fP2K60FVq3 pic.twitter.com/RsXjrJ5nu2September 24, 2015 Some are segregated - others are not. Most are a combination of both, a very British mangle of compromise and pragmatism which, while offering improvement, may leave some of our continental neighbours scratching their heads with confusion.Are you happy with the new cycling infrastructure in your area, or is it still falling short of the standards that you would expect? Are you looking forward to using it, or are you worried that what’s being built won’t be fit for purpose?Please share your views - and photos, if you have any - of new, recent or unfinished cycling infrastructure in your area. We’ll use this to build up a map of developments across the country - the good, the bad and the ugly. Be sure to let us know when the facilities you’re writing about were constructed - we’re looking for new facilities, good and bad, not historical errors.You can share your photos, videos and stories by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ buttons or use the Guardian app, by searching for ‘GuardianWitness assignments.’ GuardianWitness is the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.