Mary BeardSo many women write great general history books, why don’t they sell in the vast numbers that they should? My guess is, rather gloomily, that this is another aspect of the “women’s voices” problem; that public authority is still very largely vested not just in what men say but also what they write (and for the most part, white, middle-class men at that).The point is that big sales are heavily dependant on off-the-cuff, unplanned purchases, on people choosing the book out of any number they might buy from the bookshop display before Christmas. I am afraid that time and again, the man’s name signals knowledge and reliability. The average punter, armed with little more information than the name of the author and the blurb, will tend to trust a woman author to write about women (just as they listen to them on childcare or health). Their instinct would be to turn to a male author on the Napoleonic wars or early 20th-century economic policy. The average punter will tend to trust a woman to write about women. They would turn to a man for the Napoleonic wars It is something like this that underlies what I slightly unfairly call those “big books by blokes about battles” that dominate the bestseller lists (they’re not all about battles, but you know what I mean). So how have those of us who have bucked the trend managed it?I wish I knew. It can’t be a straightforward issue of quality, or of good reviews. How much influence reviews have on sales is utterly imponderable. I think I must thank my publishers for giving SPQR an elegantly authoritative jacket. And I must thank TV programme makers for presenting me as “someone who knows what she’s talking about when it comes to the Romans” (however much in need of a makeover).But none of us are immune to the power of stereotypes or the desire to cast history into one particular mould. When people write to me about SPQR they are often warmly appreciative. When they do complain, it’s mostly to say that there is too much on ancient obstetrics (there’s actually very little) or the lives of the urban poor (there’s more on that) – and not enough on Hannibal, the second Punic war or how the emperor Trajan thrashed the Dacians.Mary Beard’s most recent book is SPQR: A History of Ancient Rome (Profile).Antonia Fraser      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Antonia Fraser. Photograph: Dave M Benett/Getty ImagesWhen I wrote Mary Queen of Scots, I did it out of passion, without for one moment reflecting that we were both female. My motivation was that she was a romantic queen, and I was a humble would-be biographer. However, when it was published in 1969 I believe it was a great advantage that I was a comparatively young woman (I was 36), and publicists made much of the fact. The original reason that I chose Oliver Cromwell as my next subject, which would be published in 1973 under the title Cromwell: Our Chief of Men, was that I didn’t want to be pinioned as only writing about romantic queens. Like everyone else, I felt I should be free to write about anyone who excited me regardless of sex, nationality, century or whatever.  One distinguished historian reviewer asked what this nice, sensible woman could know about the torments of Cromwell This time I believe being female was a disadvantage. One distinguished historian in a review asked in effect what this nice, sensible downright woman could know about the torments of a man like Cromwell: there was condescension – but not necessarily accuracy – in every word, starting with “nice’’. I wrote four full-length biographies, two about women and two about men, the order being: female (Mary Queen of Scots), male (Cromwell), male (Charles II), female (Marie Antoinette). Today I feel more strongly than ever that biographers should not be limited by their own perceived identity – including age, sex, race, profession and so on. Although I should add that I still want the highest standards to be maintained, and it still worries me when a minor character is elevated in importance purely for the sake of her/his sex. Cats can write biography as far as I am concerned, so long as they do the research and write well.Antonia Fraser’s latest book is My History: A Memoir of Growing Up (W&N).Antony BeevorOn the whole in non-fiction, even more than in fiction, men tend to write about men and women tend to write about women, presumably because they understand their own sex better. A male preponderance in historical biography is thus fairly predictable for the obvious reason that, until very recently, women had little chance of distinguishing themselves because of ignorant prejudice. And since books on major historical figures sell better than those on the lesser known, there is almost inevitably a self-perpetuating element there. Female authors on military history are still in a small minority. I long for there to be more As for military history, the idea of a woman being interested in military subjects, let alone writing about them, was more or less unimaginable. Nothing struck most women as more boring than the “military buff”. This was largely because military history always used to be written in a top-down, collectivist and dehumanised way. Only in the last 20 years or so, when the study of warfare widened and deepened dramatically to include the fate of individuals – civilians as well as soldiers – have women started to show an interest. Female authors on the subject are still in a small minority. They may have lacked military experience, but that is not necessarily a disqualification for an author. Lyn MacDonald’s books on the first world war set the standard for a generation, and Catherine Merridale’s superb description of life in the Red Army, Ivan’s War, is unlikely to be equalled. What they managed to achieve came from empathy and understanding, and not from facile attempts to pass moral judgment on an organisation they disliked. Those who approach the subject from outside, attempting to impose an ideological grid on a subject they do not try to understand are bound to make serious mistakes. I long for more MacDonalds and Merridales to bring fresh perspectives.Antony Beevor’s latest book is Ardennes 1944: Hitler’s Last Gamble (Viking).Claire Tomalin      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Tomalin. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianI began writing about women because I felt that there wasn’t much good historical biographical information about them – there was a huge gap. I was inspired by JE Neale, who published a biography of Queen Elizabeth I in the 1930s. It was one of the great biographies, and it blew me away as a child. I was also inspired by Eileen Power, a great historian who died young in the 1940s.  Writing about humans, the way they struggle through life – the sex seems to me not the thing we should be looking at When I started, people asked, “Why aren’t you writing about men?” I replied, “You may have noticed that you can’t write about one sex without writing about the other too.” My great friend the poet and writer Dennis Enright once asked, “Why are you writing about Nelly Ternan and not about Dickens?” I said, “Because there was a story to be told there about them both.” But I don’t see a difference between writing about men or women. Writing about human beings, looking at the way they develop, the way they struggle through life, the way they achieve, the price they pay, the price those around them pay for their achievements – the sex seems to me not the thing we should be looking at.There are lots of very good female historians writing now: Caroline Moorehead is outstanding, Jessie Childs, who wrote God’s Traitors: Terror and Faith in Elizabethan England is wonderful, Alison Light’s Common People is terrific and original history, but got some very mean-spirited reviews, and of course Jenny Uglow and Antonia Fraser.Claire Tomalin’s most recent book is Charles Dickens: A Life (Penguin). Margaret MacMillan I never set out to be an anomaly. Most of what I have written is about war, peace and international relations, although I have also written about women. I am still not quite sure how this happened. When I was a student in Toronto women were expected, as the joke had it, to aim for the degree of MRS. The History Society, where they were rumoured to drink port and smoke cigars, was for men only. And although I had some wonderful male professors (the only woman in the history department had given up and fled to a chair in the US) none of them asked me where I planned to do graduate work, as they did the men. Yet somehow I did go off to Oxford, where I did imperial history.I know what the obstacles are to women doing certain kinds of history, the men, for example, who ask how a woman can possibly understand war. (If I want to be unkind I ask what was the last war they fought in.) The hiring committees (they are better now) that used to assume that female candidates weren’t worth it because they would let their hormones run their brains and only go off and get married. Or the seminars where the male professors would take all the men to the pub afterwards. I taught at a polytechnic where there were not expectations that we should publish. So I just wrote what I wanted What helped me was reading great female historians such as CV Wedgwood and Barbara Tuchman, who wrote so wonderfully about war and politics. I was very lucky too in that my parents treated their sons and daughters the same. We had family canoe trips in the wilderness of Canada where my sister and I paddled and carried packs just like our brothers. We were encouraged to read, voraciously, whatever we wanted. And our parents left us alone to choose our careers. Although it didn’t feel like it at the time I was also lucky in getting a job at a polytechnic where the teaching load was heavy but there were not expectations that we should research and publish. So I just wrote what I wanted. My other piece of luck was finding a publisher – a man – who was prepared to take a chance on my book on the Paris peace conference.Looking back at my own trajectory, I can’t offer easy solutions. I have had female mentors and publishers who have helped me a lot – but as many or even more men. If I have advice for young women it is do what you want and not what is expected of you.Margaret Macmillan’s History’s People: Personalities and the Past (Profile) is published on 18 February. David Kynaston      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Kynaston. Photograph: REX ShutterstockChaps like writing about chaps. I should know. Between 1976 and 2001 – one book on the Victorian working class, two on offices of state, three on cricket, four on the City of London, plus four institutional histories – women barely featured in my books. In the 1990s my editor at Chatto, Jenny Uglow, gently pointed this out to me, and I could not deny the soft impeachment.I suspect I was far from alone among historians of my generation. Looking back, I realise that the key historians of my formative years were all men: GM Young, AJP Taylor, GR Elton, EP Thompson, Eric Hobsbawm. And overwhelmingly, those historians wrote about men. Thompson’s The Making of the English Working Class (1963) is widely recognised as the greatest British history book of the 20th century, yet it is striking to turn to the index and count the number of women: just eight, in 939 pages. All this represents a huge impoverishment. Those five historians wrote many fine books, but with one massive omission. Nor was it just down to the staying-in-their-comfort-zone subjects – ultimately it was down to an idea of history that privileged predominantly male worlds of activity over female worlds.For myself, I have become convinced of the wrongness of that privileging in the course of researching and writing my “Tales of a New Jerusalem” series of books about postwar Britain. What matters in an account of a society is what mattered to people at the time; and in, say, the 1950s, “female” domestic concerns (often articulated by wonderful women diarists such as Nella Last or Judy Haines) mattered just as much as “male” more public concerns. Female biographers have given us a golden age of literary biography, but so far very few biographies of male politicians Clearly things are changing. Not only in the sense of men and women now living in much less separate spheres than half a century ago, but also with the emergence of impressive female historians, often approaching the discipline in a strikingly different – and more insightful – way from their male counterparts. Historians such as Juliet Gardiner, Selina Todd and Alison Light, to name just a few from my own field. If there is a reluctance on the part of female readers to read history books – unsurprising after being in effect frozen out for so long – I suspect that will diminish.The next frontier is biography. Female biographers have given us a golden age of literary biography, but so far very few biographies of male politicians. The living politician who will one day be the subject of a truly fascinating biography is Gordon Brown. If I was a publisher, I’d be looking for the right woman to write it.David Kynaston’s latest book is Modernity Britain: 1957-1962 (Bloomsbury).Amanda Foreman      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amanda Foreman. Photograph: BBC/Silver RiverFirst of all, let’s not get sidetracked by quantity over quality. There may be fewer women historians writing on traditionally “male” subjects, but they are outstanding in the field – like Margaret MacMillan. So I don’t see a crisis in history. Nor is there a conspiracy to keep women out. Many female historians, quite rightly, are interested in the gaps – in those areas that have been ignored. So of course they are going to write about so-called female subjects, because for centuries women were written out of history. When writing about war, if you only look at tank battles, troop movements and military strategy then all you’ve presented is the facade, without the larger meaning. To give you an example from my own field, the American civil war really lends itself to armchair enthusiasts because it has so many set-piece battles. Such questions as what on earth General Robert E Lee thought he was doing at Gettysburg in 1863 offers lots of scope for fun analysis, no doubt about it. But the war was won when General Sherman took the fight into the heart of the South – specifically to demoralise the civilian population. He perfected the modern idea of total war. That essentially means a war on women and, to some extent, children. Any book that treats the female aspect as a side show to the “real” events completely misses the point about how that war was won. When writing about war, if you only look at strategy then all you’ve presented is the facade, without larger meaning But just because there’s no conspiracy doesn’t mean there isn’t a glass ceiling in operation. When women do take on traditionally male subjects, certain male colleagues can seem affronted that a woman has dared to trespass on their subject. I could given you dozens of examples, but here’s one: Max Hastings’s review in the Sunday Times in 2009 of Miranda Carter’s book The Three Emperors. The language he used says it all: “This time around she offers a romp through the palaces of Europe...”. His use of “romp” signals to the reader that this a woman’s book, stuck in the superficial world of balls and dances – Jane Austen territory. Hastings goes on: “but there is little here to surprise any student of modern history”. So now we have a clear division between Miranda Carter the “amateur lady writer” and real students of modern history – ie she’s no professional, she doesn’t belong to the club, dear boy. Hastings ends on a coup de grace: “She has shown that she is capable of writing a much better book than this one, but perhaps it should have been within a less ambitious compass.” Hastings’s review deserves a place in the now-classic book by Joanna Russ, How to Suppress Women’s Writing. While we are still in the situation of having to fight every step of the way for legitimacy, you are going to see an imbalance.Amanda Foreman’s A World on Fire: Britain’s Crucial Role in the American Civil War is published by Penguin.Alexandra HarrisI don’t think there’s any shortage of brilliant history being written by women, but more can be done to get people reading it. How is a general reader to know what kinds of mind-changing work is waiting on the library shelves if what he or she sees promoted in bookshops is mainly the season’s big war book and the biography of an 18th-century mistress? Let’s hope Waterstones’ superb efforts towards variety can be sustained and deepened, and that university presses help by continuing to make attractive titles available at (almost) trade prices.The writing of private, domestic and forgotten histories has powerfully changed the shape of “grand sweep” narratives, but these kinds of writing need not be opposed. Look at Jenny Uglow’s vast panorama of life in the Napoleonic wars, and Margaret MacMillan on the first world war, and Jane Stevenson on women’s use of international Latin. These live on my desk beside (yes) Simon Schama and Peter Conrad, and I don’t plan to separate them out. TV documentaries are influential. I hope that more female presenters will be trusted to set out arguments on screen As an academic I know that humanities research tends towards extreme specialisation: if you want to be taken seriously it’s best to devote a lifetime’s study to one particular period or issue, and I suspect women worry about this more than men. We need intense focus, but we also need to foster young scholars who want to think across a broad spectrum, or write six completely different books, and who will be respected for doing so.Television documentaries are clearly influential in shaping the tastes of readers, and I hope that deeply learned female presenters will be trusted more often to set out detailed arguments on screen. If only they were allowed to talk about more and walk about less. I’m not sure that we always need to be told stories or taken on journeys: ideas can be gripping too. And I am boycotting the term “costume drama”, which makes “costume” the defining feature of any drama set before about 1960. With language like this, no wonder women are associated (in the minds of both men and women) with sprigged cambric dresses rather than the history of ideas, to which we have so much to contribute.Alexandra Harris’s latest book is Weatherland: Writers & Artists Under English Skies (Thames and Hudson). Richard J EvansAs a long-time judge of the Wolfson history prize, which is worth a total of £50,000 each year, I can report a marked change in the gender balance of the winners in recent times. Nine out of the 21 winners in the last 10 years have been women, whereas in the previous 10 years there were only four women out of a total of 24. The prize, often awarded jointly to two books, rewards the all too rare combination of scholarly excellence and readability and is open to authors who are UK citizens living in Britain. If you take quality history with an appeal beyond the academic, then women are finding readers and winning prizes, too  It’s striking that the female historians who have won the prize have written about a whole variety of subjects: they have included military history (Joanna Bourke’s An Intimate History of Killing), French politics (Ruth Harris’s The Man on Devil’s Island), the history of religion (Alexandra Walsham’s The Reformation of the Landscape), the biography of a man (Susie Harris’s Nikolaus Pevsner, Susan Brigden’s Thomas Wyatt and Rosemary Hill’s God’s Architect), Russian politics (Catherine Merridale’s Red Fortress), cultural history (Margaret McGowan’s Dance in the Renaissance and Evelyn Welch’s Shopping in the Renaissance) and archaeology and memory (Pompeii by Mary Beard). True, these are not all books that have topped the bestseller lists. But that’s only a crude and rather misleading yardstick. If you take quality history with an appeal beyond the academic, then women are finding publishers and readers and winning prizes too.Richard Evans’s latest book is The Third Reich in History and Memory (Little, Brown).Ruth Scurr      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ruth Scurr.I find the notion of a “preserve” – male or female – troubling. I’m suspicious of all historians who act in a territorial way towards their subjectHistory is our common inheritance; it is about sharing and communication, not ownership or control. The idea that history can be divided – by publishers, authors or bookshops – into topics suitable for girls and for boys is just ridiculous.I wrote my first book, Fatal Purity: Robespierre and the French Revolution, because I’m interested in power and politics. My second daughter was born before I had finished. I didn’t find it difficult thinking about the reign of terror while sterilising feeding bottles and washing baby clothes, but I was extremely tired. Cyril Connolly was right – the pram in the hall can be an enemy – but not an invincible one. In this regard, I think things have got better for female writers than they were in previous generations; and I hope that by the time my daughters are having children they will be better still. The idea that history can be divided into topics suitable for girls and for boys is just ridiculous My second book, John Aubrey: My Own Life, was anything but a safe and natural progression from my first. It involved a change from the 18th to the 17th century and a return from France to England. In addition to those upheavals, I decided to write Aubrey’s life in the form of a first-person diary. For a long time I didn’t tell anyone what I was doing in case they thought I had gone mad. I think good books result from taking risks. My advice to younger women is to write only about what most interests you, and if an agent or publisher tries to persuade you to write a safe book on a suitable topic, run as fast as you can from that poisoned apple.Ruth Scurr’s latest book is John Aubrey: My Own Life (Chatto & Windus).Michael HolroydI do not recognise that part of history called biography as being dominated in Britain by male authors writing about male subjects. Those readers who, in the urge to gather controversial statistics, do not get further than the title pages of books may easily add me to their misleading list of men-on-men. In fact I prefer writing about women – they teach me more than men can. Women often take over from the men who occupy the title page as Carrington took over the last half of my Life of Lytton Strachey. But since Carrington refused to use her first name, Dora, she was in danger, at a quick glance, of being added to the army of men. Later on, when I published a group biography of women and men, I used as my title a line from the “seven ages of man” speech in As You Like It. I hope that is not used as evidence of some kind. If I made a list of two dozen most distinguished contemporary biographers, half of them at least would be women If I made a list of two dozen most distinguished contemporary biographers, half of them at least would be women. Those who, in alphabetical order, immediately come to mind are Lara Feigel, Victoria Glendinning, Lyndall Gordon, Selina Hastings, Rosemary Hill, Hermione Lee, Ruth Scurr, Frances Spalding, Hilary Spurling, Claire Tomalin, Jenny Uglow and Frances Wilson. And there are another dozen women waiting to take their place. Nor is it true that all of them write solely about women. Even the lives of Angus Wilson and Arnold Bennett, I am reminded, were written by a woman. I rest my case.Michael Holroyd’s latest book is A Book of Secrets: Illegitimate Daughters, Absent Fathers (Vintage).Amanda Vickery      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amanda Vickery. Photograph: Andrew Hayes Watkins/BBCAs an academic historian I went all out to pursue the thing that the discipline most values – originality. For me that meant seeking out new or neglected sources in endless local record offices and using them to create fresh interpretations about society and culture. It is pure scholarship that gets you promoted to a professorship, and that was always worth more to me than writing bestsellers. Of course I always hoped that my books would have crossover appeal and the royalties still dribble in, but book sales are dwarfed by the benefits of a regular salary, paid maternity leave and pension rights, as freelance historians are painfully aware. I have also found that the academy can be much more open-minded and imaginative than some popular publishers, whose vision of “historical importance” lags generations behind the research frontier, and in some cases would not be out of place in the Victorian senior common room. If the mood takes me I will research war, but not because death in battle is more significant than death in childbirth Of course publishers are in the business of selling books and have their own views and research on what the market can bear. Popular histories of war, regimes, empire building and so on appeal to a core of hardback history buyers, predominantly white professional men in their 50s and 60s. A glance at the book jackets of recent publications tells you everything you need to know about the target audiences – general syntheses of Big Historical Events have dominant covers and severe san serif type, while focused studies rich in personal commentary usually have a pretty image, possibly a sepia photograph, and a scrolling font. Popular history is bifurcated – the Nazis versus Call the Midwife. Graphic design itself seems to reinforce and police a divide between masculine significance and feminine inconsequence. My own tastes are Catholic (my guilty pleasure at the moment is Mark Urban’s Tank War), but when choosing the next book subject I am always on the look out for something neglected or disregarded – which noone could claim for the Second World War or the Tsars. I am grateful for the academic freedom to pursue my own hunches into the archive. I have a day (and evening job) teaching, administering, dealing with constant bureaucracy and bashing out articles, so I am spared the need to churn out a bonkbuster to pay the mortgage.Above all though, I reject the ominous subtext about importance and triviality at work here. It is almost a century since Virginia Woolf exposed the systematic privileging of masculine interests over feminine. “This is an important book, the critic assumes, because it deals with war. This is an insignificant book because it deals with the feelings of women in a drawing room. A scene in a battlefield is more important than a scene in a shop – everywhere and much more subtly the difference of value persists.” How can it be that a hierarchy of critical value still prevails that diminishes anything associated with the lightweight concerns of women? If the mood takes me I will research war, but not because male death in battle is more significant than female death in child-bed. It is rigour and scholarship that make a book heavyweight, not manly theme and butch cover.Amanda Vickery’s latest book is Behind Closed Doors: At Home in Georgian England (Yale).Lara Feigel This year I am judging the PEN Hessell-Tiltman prize, and I have on my shelf the longlist of 35 history books published in 2015. It’s notable that only seven are by women, because far more history books have been published this year by men. Looking back over the prize’s past, of the 15 winners only three have been women (Jenny Uglow, Clair Wills and Jessie Childs). Perhaps it’s a question of expanding our sense of history to include books that find new ways of writing about the past Yet in my own career, I have never felt discriminated against in tackling historical themes. As I teach in an English literature department, I became a historian by accident. I think of myself as writing about life rather than history, but lives are inevitably shaped by the times in which they’re lived, so I’ve become more and more interested in looking at a particular moment of transformation: the second world war and its aftermath. My new book, The Bitter Taste of Victory, combines cultural history and collective biography to explore the way that a group of writers, film-makers and artists confronted the rubble in postwar Germany by attempting to transform the mentality of the nation through its art.In writing this, I’ve found that the (predominantly male) second world war historians are happy to welcome me into the field. And newspapers are happy for me to review the kind of history books I’m interested in, which often approach the past from an oblique (usually cultural) angle, and are often written by women. Many of these books aren’t easy to categorise as history at all. When Jenny Uglow won the PEN prize it was for The Lunar Men, a collective biography that is nonetheless a fascinating portrait of an era. Perhaps in the end it’s not a question of persuading more women to write traditional history or of validating those that decide to do so, but rather of expanding our sense of history to include books that find new ways of writing about the past.Lara Feigel’s latest book is The Bitter Taste of Victory: In the Ruins of the Reich (Bloomsbury).Kathryn Hughes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   British writer on cookery and domestic management Mrs Beeton. Photograph: PopperfotoI certainly don’t think there’s a conspiracy afoot to stop women tackling big, broad historical subjects. You only have to look at Linda Colley (Britons) or Margaret MacMillan (Peacemakers). Both are exemplary scholars doing original work who manage not only to master big questions – the founding of nations, the fracture of continents – but who speak to a huge non-academic audience through their books and broadcasts.Having said that, I do believe there’s a danger that women’s historical work gets pigeon-holed and downgraded unless it comes out with a certain swagger, wearing pantomime breeches. I did my PhD and first book on the Victorian governess because I wanted to use the figure of these excluded citizens as a way of unpicking the social, economic and political forces at play in the construction of bourgeois Victorian Britain. In fact, what I mostly get asked about is how likely it was that Mr Rochester would fancy Jane Eyre. I wrote a biography of Mrs Beeton. As far as everyone else was concerned it was a manual on how to bake a sponge cake I had the same situation with my last book, a biography of Mrs Beeton. Again, I thought I’d used the cookery book writer’s iconic status as a way of understanding how a hugely expansionist Victorian Britain needed to lodge a particular reading of domesticity at its very heart. As far as everyone else is concerned I’d written a manual about how to make a Victorian sponge. I’ve lost count of the number of times I’ve been asked to appear on the Great British Bake Off, and one TV company wanted me to dress up as Mrs B while demonstrating how to make scones.My forthcoming book is about the Victorian body – men’s as well as women’s, beards as well as breasts, and is based on a decade of work in archives around the world. It’s designed to be about everything – not just “culture”, a category that has a slightly female skew to it, but proper “boy” stuff – politics, religion, economics. I’m quite resigned, though, to the fact that someone will ask me to get dressed up as a Victorian or, worse still, undressed.Kathryn Hughes’ The Short Life and Long Times of Mrs Beeton is published by Harper Perennial.Alison LightWhen I was writing my last book, Common People, I spent a summer reading naval history. Many of my forebears were sailors and I wanted to know more about their lives. Most naval history turned out to be about the great battles, diplomacy, ships, weaponry, conquest; far less was written about the crew apart from the officers or the navy after the glory days of Nelson. And the women married to sailors or living with them? I found one book, by a woman, again mostly about the wives of the upper ranks. A few paragraphs on prostitutes. The research was invaluable but often infuriating. Can women write naval histories? Of course. But what matters is whether those histories are just more of the same Yet it was relatively easy, using census and other records, to track down individuals. I could discover if seamen were village boys or townies, or migrants from further afield. They could be located in their families - every sailor has a mother if not a wife - and their lives traced across time. Standard histories treat the worlds of ship and shore separately but they are always joined. Family history is one way of connecting them and a study of sailortowns is another. Though I hadn’t realised it at the time, my book was part of a new wave of ‘coastal history’.Can women write naval histories? Of course. Just as there are women historians of royalty and of empire, or of the thirty years’ war. But what matters is whether those histories are just more of the same. The odds in publishing, as in academic life, are stacked against women, but gender doesn’t automatically confer a radical or even a democratic politics. The grand sweeps of the past are maps of power. They can be written by men as well as women with an awareness of the vested interests, or not. History is an argument, and not set in stone.Alison Light’s most recent book is Common People: The History of an English Family (Penguin).Sarah Churchwell      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Churchwell. Photograph: Jeremy Sutton-Hibbert/Getty ImagesThere’s enough constant low-level sexism in my daily social, public life – in social media, on the street, in meetings, on stage or on television, in the letters and emails I get from strangers – to know it operates in my life. It’s much harder to measure how influential it’s been, whether my writings would have had more traction if they’d been published by a man, or if they’ve just found their appropriate level.  Having a PhD gives me some structural authority, but it hardly inoculates me from sexism Having a PhD and the rank of “professor” definitely buffers me to a certain extent – it gives me some structural authority, but it hardly inoculates me from sexism. For example: my recent book on F Scott Fitzgerald was assumed by several male reviewers to be merely “popularising” others’ research. In point of fact it has an enormous amount of original research (as attested to by actual Fitzgerald scholars). The reviewers were not experts in the field; they knew they weren’t, but they felt entitled to pronounce on the originality of the research of a female professor in her field of specialism without doing any homework at all. Would they have felt so comfortable dismissing the work of a John Carey or a Simon Schama, or would they have said: “I’m not an expert in his field and so can’t adjudicate his scholarship, but here’s how it strikes me as a book to read”? I think they would have. Maybe I just strike them as not very original. Or maybe it was sexism doing its preconceived, insidious, undermining, work.Sarah Churchwell’s latest book is Careless People: Murder, Mayhem and the Invention of The Great Gatsby (Virago).John GuyThe statistics tell us what we always knew: serious non-fiction – notably history and biography – tends to be written by men. Statistics aren’t everything: think of Claire Tomalin on Samuel Pepys, Charles Dickens and Thomas Hardy; Miranda Seymour on Robert Graves and Henry James; Antonia Fraser on Oliver Cromwell and Charles II. But the pattern is clear. And it does seem to be linked, partly, to the predominance of men presenting big television series. If there are 'gynaecological moments' for which men are not best placed to make judgments, the reverse must also be true It just never occurred to me when I wrote biographies of Mary Queen of Scots or of Margaret More (Thomas More’s eldest daughter) or chose the later years of Elizabeth I as the main focus for a fresh “warts-and-all” biography that I was bucking a trend. I’m intrigued, mildly annoyed, often shocked, when fellow academics or authors invite me to justify my choices, as if they needed explanation. I choose topics because they have good stories, usually involving collisions of big personalities and big ideas. That’s why I also wrote a life of Thomas Becket.Although I’m happiest now writing biography rather than history, I use life writing to unlock the clashes and controversies of the past as much as to write a subject’s life. I did feel I had a duty, in the case of Mary Queen of Scots, to put the record straight, since the sources clearly justified that. If it’s true there are “gynaecological moments” in writing women’s lives for which men are not best placed to make judgments, then the reverse must also be true – at which point the debate gets rather silly. No one surely thinks in the 21st century that a man cannot write intelligently about the birth of a child?John Guy’s new book, Elizabeth: The Forgotten Years, is out in May (Viking).Patrick FrenchAll writers need to be encouraged early on to stretch their talent. If they are women, they are less likely, for embedded cultural and social reasons, to be told they should be writing a big and ambitious nonfiction book. Women whose work broke through in the 20th century, such as Gertrude Stein, Margaret Mead or Rachel Carson, faced different barriers from those faced by women today. What we have now is a more nebulous obstacle. Stereotypically in non-fiction, women write about the domestic and men write on world wars and politicians. In these nostalgic and sometimes regressive times, we follow the contours of our upbringing and produce what is familiar. It is no surprise to learn that Mark Zuckerberg’s reading circle prefers titles on subjects like technology and international power politics that are written almost exclusively by men. Britain is not short of female editors. But like their male colleagues, they are failing to push female writers British publishers, along with other creative and media companies, draw their talent from a comparatively small social pool: it is possible at a London literary event to find that every person is white and well heeled, bar those who are serving the drinks. Britain today is not, though, short of female editors and agents. Like their male colleagues, they are failing to push talented female writers to go for broke. Think of an older generation, unconstrained by what was expected in fiction or non-fiction. Margaret Atwood said Doris Lessing’s “outland origins” had made her a model “for every writer coming from the back of beyond”. Starting in the 1940s, Lessing happily took on subjects ranging from genetics and imperialism to revolutionary activism and ideas of space and time. To quote Atwood: “Doris did everything with all her heart, all her soul, and all her might.” So storm the citadel.Patrick French’s latest book is India: a Portrait (Penguin). He is currently writing the authorised biography of Doris Lessing. Simon Schama       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Schama. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianGermaine Greer, Susan Greenfield, Sherry Turkle, Ruth Scurr, Lucy Hughes-Hallett, Linda Colley, Mary Beard, Bettany Hughes, Laura Cumming, Jackie Wullschlager, Gillian Tett, Sheryl Sandberg, Naomi Klein, Suzannah Lipscomb, Jessie Childs, Karen Armstrong, Stacey Schiff, Helen Macdonald, Lisa Appignanesi, Suzy Orbach, Jenny Uglow, Bronwen Maddox, Daisy Dunn, Deborah Lipstadt, Stella Tillyard, Susan Orlean, Jill Lepore, Claire Tomalin, Flora Fraser, Mary Roach, Catherine Boo, Hermione Lee, Amy Wilentz, Jane Mayer, Carmen Callil.