One thousand people are crammed together in a pit under an open sky. They have been standing for several hours. Some have travelled a great distance to get here, by river, by road and on foot. They are listening to the music at the end of a play. Reed instruments and a drum pierce the air; on stage the company of men moves forwards into a dance. The audience is silent, enthralled by the confusion of sound.  If you were poor and illiterate, as most people were, the doors were closed to some of the greatest music ever written The play, by William Shakespeare, reaches its conclusion on London’s Bankside. The scene could be today – but this actually happened 400 years ago. Shakespeare’s theatre, the Globe (otherwise known as the Wooden O), was an amphitheatre constructed of English oak and held together with wooden pegs. Inside, it was painted and decorated to look like marble. Such is the craft of the English artisan emulating the Italian fashion in the 1600s.If music be the food of love … From Shakespeare to Haight Ashbury | Letters From the outside, the building looked white and shone like a beacon, its lime plaster-rendering gleaming against the oak of its crossbeams. Inside, stories of an ancient root were given a new twist. Tyrannical kings, brothels, debauchery, young lovers crossed by cruel fate. Three thousand people – 1,000 of them standing in the yard or “pit” – arrived every day to “hear a play”. They also came to hear the music.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Emma Rice’s production of A Midsummer Night’s Dream at the Globe Theatre, spring 2016. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianImagine a world where, if you were a working man, the only music you could hear would be the bagpipe, pipe and tabor on a street corner; or the cittern (similar to the banjo) in a barber’s. If you went to a tavern to drink ale and pick up a prostitute, you might hear a fiddler and a song. In the Elizabethan and Jacobean worlds, access to music was linked to class; if you were poor and illiterate, as most of the London population was at the beginning of the 17th century, the doors would be closed to some of the greatest music ever written. Thomas Morley’s consort books were for noble occasions or the Inns of Court; Thomas Tallis’s greatest motets for the Chapel Royal.How Shakespeare’s great escape from the plague changed theatre The Globe was a place people came to to be together in a society that focused on social division to create social rule. People came for the stories, the songs, the comedy, the dances, and after 1608, when the King’s Men (Shakespeare’s company) took over the Blackfriars indoor playhouse for winter playing, they came for the music.The revelatory experience of candlelight and music in these indoor playhouses – the Blackfriars, the Whitefriars, the Fortune – meant that a theatre and music revolution was occurring, simultaneously with the growth of literacy. The “commonfolk” were beginning to read, beginning to trust their own judgment. Introduced to the phenomenon of “entr’acte music” during the setting and trimming of candles indoors, audiences demanded more from productions in the outdoor playhouses, too. They wanted more of those extraordinary instruments hitherto denied them: consorts of viols, bass lutes, sackbuts. Shakespeare responded. The later plays are full of references to solemn and processional music, masques (The Tempest), and “heavenly music” – or the music of the spheres. There was a sharp uptake in talented musicians flowing into England from Europe – cornettists, violinists, lutenists… The increase of music to accompany masques at the court of James I meant there was a sharp uptake of talented musicians flowing into England from Europe – cornettists, violinists, recorders lutenists – looking to supplement their income when not required at court. The City Waits, a group of highly talented multi-instrumentalists usually hired for civic functions, were engaged on tours of Shakespeare’s plays. There is evidence to support their being in the Globe to entertain the audience and provide the accompaniments to the jigs on “loud instruments” – that is, instruments loud enough to penetrate the open air: rauschpfeifes ( literally “smoking pipes”), shawms, sackbuts, trumpets, drums.Without Shakespeare, great music might never have made the leap into the popular sensibility. Access to it would have continued to be determined by class and privilege. Without Shakespeare’s words, music would be vastly poorer. His influence on composers over all the past 400 years has been palpable – and continues to be so. Tchaikovsky’s Overture to Romeo and Juliet; Walton’s stirring score to the film of Henry V; and Such Sweet Thunder, Duke Ellington’s musical tribute to Shakespeare.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Musicians in period costume outside London’s Globe Theatre. Photograph: Chris Ratcliffe/Getty ImagesWhy, as composers, are we not as inspired by Shakespeare’s contemporaries: Marlowe, Webster, Middleton? The last in particular was a popular playwright, providing Globe audiences with thrilling and challenging social and political questions. Why, then, do we not have Prokofiev writing an overture to Middleton’s The Family of Love, or a suite from his A Mad World My Masters?Is it that innate trust we have in his writing of that other world, the mystical place – “The undiscover’d country, from whose bourn/ No traveller returns” – that allows for the abstraction of music alongside such immense and powerful poetry? For Shakespeare, music signified soul, and the possession of soul defined the nature of the human condition. It is a subject he continually addresses. As Lorenzo says in The Merchant of Venice:  The man that hath no music in himself,Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils;The motions of his spirit are dull as night.And his affections dark as Erebus:Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music.So, here we are in 2016, “marking the music”. We gather in a round amphitheatre in SW7. This one has a roof. There are 5,000 people here from all walks of life and countries. Many are crammed together in the pit. Others are comfortably seated in the galleries. The programme they are listening to, as part of the Proms in the Royal Albert Hall, is being broadcast to most of the planet. We are listening to music inspired by a Shakespeare play written more than 400 years ago. Music inspired by Shakespeare features throughout the 2016 BBC Proms season, including concerts on 21 August, 23 August, 27 August, 5 September and 10 September.