Over the course of his 60-year career in film, John Williams has racked up 50 Oscar nominations (the most of any living person) and five wins. Yet upon first learning that the American Film Institute wanted to bestow its 2016 life achievement award upon him, the 84-year-old composer thought: “I’m really too young for something like this.”Williams, responsible for many of the most famous scores of all time for films such as Star Wars, ET, Indiana Jones, Jurassic Park, Superman and Harry Potter, was in playful form accepting the honor at Thursday night’s gala, held at the Dolby Theater in Hollywood.Interview with film composer John Williams To huge laughs from the audience, he revealed that for the first Star Wars, he had initially written a “quite heated love theme” with “a torrid climax” for Luke and Leia, only to later find out that they were siblings. He also recalled an instance during which he pleaded with Steven Spielberg to find “a better composer than I” for Schindler’s List, to which the film-maker replied: “I know, but they’re all dead.” Williams would go on to win his fifth Oscar for that score.“Certainly Beethoven would have shunned [Hollywood],” Williams also joked, “but Wagner would have had his own studio out there in Burbank with a water tower with a big W on it.”Before Williams took to the stage, a bevy of Hollywood stalwarts including past recipients of the award, Spielberg, George Lucas, Tom Hanks, as well as Harrison Ford, Drew Barrymore, Kobe Bryant, Bryce Dallas Howard and Seth MacFarlane paid tribute to the composer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steven Spielberg, George Lucas and JJ Abrams paid tribute to Williams. Photograph: Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic“Without John Williams, bikes don’t really fly, nor do brooms in Quidditch matches, nor do men in red capes,” said Spielberg, who has worked with Williams on 27 movies over 43 years. “There is no Force, dinosaurs do not walk the Earth, we do not wonder, we do not weep, we do not believe.”Following their first film together, The Sugarland Express, the two re-teamed for Jaws, for which Williams won his second Oscar. “When he played the [Jaws theme] for the first time for me on the piano he, had a big grin on his face and I thought he was joking,” said Spielberg, also grinning. “He wasn’t.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ford, who worked with the pair on the Indiana Jones movies (they’re all returning for an upcoming fifth installment), meanwhile lamented that the franchise’s theme music follows him everywhere. “It was playing in the operating room when I went in for my colonoscopy,” the star quipped onstage.Lucas paid his respects to his frequent collaborator by crediting Williams’s music for raising Star Wars to “a level of popular art that would stand the test of time”.“I had so many ideas for other movies, but I never got to them, because you ensured that Star Wars would endure forever,” Lucas said to Williams. “And then you did it again for Raiders of the Lost Ark,” which Lucas ultimately wrote and Spielberg directed.Lucas’s successor to the Star Wars franchise, Abrams, said he felt like “the luckiest man alive” to work with the icon on The Force Awakens, who he said called him “baby” and “angel” during the making of the film.“‘Oh Angel, I just hope this cue is good enough.’ These are the kinds of preposterous things that John Williams says at his own scoring sessions,” Abrams said. “It’s like he’s never read his own résumé. He’s the sweetest superhero of all time.”The AFI Achievement Award Gala will be broadcast on TNT on Wednesday, followed by an encore presentation on TCM on 12 September, during a night of programming dedicated to Williams.This article was amended on 10 June 2017 to correct an error that stated that Jaws was Spielberg’s first film collaboration with Williams. It was The Sugarland Express.