During my first prolonged hospital admission, at the age of 14, I wrote. At that West Yorkshire in-patient unit, I witnessed other patients cut their own throats, burn their skin and swallow glass. At this stage, I wasn’t medicated so I endured all of this by writing letters to the other girls; this soon evolved into my reading and writing poetry.I kept my poetry to myself for the most part, though some of the nurses read it. Writing helped me feel as though I was releasing some of the anguish that I’d been forced to keep to myself. But in later years and at later admissions, I was medicated and my capacity for writing was diminished, by both the medication and the inhibiting influence of routine. Psychiatry provided a simplistic framework for living, but rarely allowed me opportunities to articulate my distress. During my second major hospitalisation in 2002 for a “mixed affective episode”, the hospital plied me with so much medication it felt as if I was living in perpetual limbo. The distress was phenomenal when it was felt, but as soon as it was felt it was sated, via a consistent formula of pills, food, nicotine and sleep. I was given so many benzodiazepines at that time I became seriously addicted to them; even when I did not feel that bad, I pretended I was suffering acutely in order to feed the addiction. I was locked into the system and the system treated me as though I was a caged animal it must merely feed, drug and clean up after.  A person’s psychological distress is reduced to a pill, a prescription and a diagnosis. I tried something else: I wrote. Writing and communicating barely featured in my treatment. I was so drugged, I couldn’t access talking therapy as I would simply fall asleep. The nurses in the hospitals seemed bored and often bullied me in disturbing ways, which inevitably prevented me from speaking with them at all. The psychiatric wards were insular worlds of silences, punctuated by occasional bursts of dramatic madness, which was swiftly nulled by needles and sedatives. No one was particularly inclined to ask about the fact I had lost my closest friend to suicide, or that I had been the victim of horrific sexual abuse. The diagnosis was bipolar, and I was told that it was a biological condition that couldn’t be cured.When I had first arrived on the ward in 2002, I had written a book-length poem describing my experience of grief and pain; on submitting to a staggering regime of pill cocktails, I ceased to write at all. I also stopped reading; a copy of Adorno’s Minima Moralia was swiftly confiscated as a particularly derisive nurse expressed her opinion on its damaging effect on my mind. Whenever I attempted to write something down, it was remarked on as a manifestation of my illness – never a possible route to its cessation. Psychiatry offers a reductive solution; the entirety of a person’s psychological distress is reduced to a pill, a prescription and a diagnosis. During a psychiatric admission in 2008, I tried something else: I wrote. I knew I couldn’t do it with the drugs so I began to refuse medication. I’d hide the pills under my tongue and spit them out later. I was torn; the drugs had made it easier for me to dissociate from my pain, but describing my experience was more achievable without them, even though I had avoided that for so many years. But I finished writing my first book, A Body Made of You in 2009. I kept the manuscript under my pillow in a ward dormitory and never imagined it would be published. The day I found out it would be was one of the most overwhelming and happy days of my life.Writing poetry, for me, has an intoxicating effect akin to taking a drug - in many ways, it is a short-term, substitutive distraction. But it provides satisfaction, both through the act of creating and the subsequent rewards of earning money and the enthusiastic responses of others. I wrote my most recent poetry collection, Sunshine, after my last suicide attempt. It served as a last attempt at providing myself with a witness to my suffering and I honestly believed it would be the last thing I would ever accomplish. But the benefits of articulating your experience and sharing it are remarkably life-affirming. Writing has helped me through the arduous process of understanding and bearing things that had previously felt unendurable, and it brings a kind of relief that could never have been attained by masking my suffering with medication.Melissa Lee-Houghton’s latest collection, Sunshine is published by Penned in the Margins. Her poem i am very precious was shortlisted for the 2016 Forward Prize for best single poem. She is appearing at Durham book festival on 15 October.For mental health problems in the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123, or visit Mind’s website. In the US, if you are in crisis or need someone to talk to, call the Samaritans branch in your area or 1 (800) 273-TALK. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here.