George Martin obituary George Martin, one of the most influential producers in popular music history, has died aged 90. He was dubbed ‘the fifth Beatle’ having produced all but one of their albums, taking the credit for signing the band to Parlophone records, when others had turned them down. Aside from his work with the Beatles, Martin worked with the likes of Gerry and the Pacemakers, Shirley Bassey and Cilla Black, producing more than 700 records during his career.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A message of thanks to the late Beatles producer George Martin is scribbled on a wall outside the famous Abbey Road Studios in London, Britain, 9 March 2016. Photograph: Andy Rain/EPAWe’d like you to share your tributes and memories of the producer. Is there any particular song Martin produced that has a special resonance for you? Whether it’s his acclaimed work with the Beatles or more obscure recordings you believe Martin should have received more credit for, share your stories with us. You may also have personal memories of George Martin, so please share those too. We will publish the most interesting responses on the Guardian site. Here are some of your tributes so far:   sketpic 09 March 2016 8:58amI met George Martin in 1997. He wouldn't remember me as I was just one of 5272 guests. Yes it was at Albert Hall for a one night only benefit concert he produced to raise funds to rebuild the recording studio at Montserrat. He came on at one point like the genteel host of posh reception (Richard Branson had a box) and asked 'hope your enjoying the concert'. No complaints and we were building to the grand finale-Paul McCartney singing Golden Slumbers backed by a full choir and Eric Clapton, Mark Knopfler and Sting (guitars), Phil Collins (drums) and Elton John (piano natch). Cost me 250 quid from a more reputable scalping outfit and you needn't ask if I regret it.And I thank you George Martin every time I play ANYTHING from the Beatles box. Your talents are obviously now required elsewhere. John and George have missed you.   Miaow69 09 March 2016 10:48amGeorge lived around 3 miles away from where I grew up. He would open his gardens for the public every so often, for a garden party. I have fond memories of this, particularly the time that Tony Hart was there, drawing on request - I tried to catch him out by requesting a giraffe, but he nailed it! I still have the signed sketch he produced. RIP George, thanks for everything.   WillHK 09 March 2016 6:45amWent to school with his son Giles, lost contact but if by any chance he is reading these, lot's of love to you and the family Giles and thoughts with you....your Dad is a legend and such a great guy to meet.You can share your George Martin tributes by clicking on the blue “contribute” buttons on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the Guardian app and search for “GuardianWitness assignments”.GuardianWitness is the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.