Unspeakable tells the tale of a young girl called Megan who hasn’t spoken since her best friend, Hana, was killed 7 months ago. She blames herself entirely for Hana’s death and is too afraid to ever speak for fear of saying what happened the night Hana died.Then, a girl called Jasmine starts at Megan’s school. Jasmine is bubbly and chatty and never runs out of things to say, despite having her own secrets about her past, Jasmine willingly befriends Megan. The two girls start to form a strong friendship regardless of the communication barrier between them. Yet. as time goes by, everything starts to go wrong; anonymous notes warning Jasmine to go away, a dead cat on Jasmine’s doorstep – the constant fear of who is sending the threatening messages. Neither girl understands what is happening or who would be so set on hurting Jasmine even though she’s only just arrived. With Jasmine’s parents wondering about having to move away again, and Megan’s Mum starting to despair about her daughter being a mute, it seems nothing good will ever arrive again for the girls; but they have their friendship. Then, when you think nothing could get worse, Megan starts to develop feelings for Jasmine, threatening to strain their friendship for good…I read this entire book in two days; I just couldn’t put it down. It’s one of those novels when you promise to put it away and sleep after reading just one more chapter but it ends on a cliffhanger so you have to continue. I will definitely have to re-read it sometime soon. It was a real page-turner, constantly putting different theories in your head and making you feel more and more for the characters, and then threatening to take them away. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? This could possibly have become my new favourite book as it contains an element of mystery and fear, as well as containing the wonderful topics of friendship, family and sexuality that YA books always do.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!