Talking about Chinese coal production would once have seemed as obscure as banging on about Soviet tractor output. No longer. Climate change is the biggest threat to life on Earth, China the biggest emitter of carbon, and coal the overwhelming culprit. Extraction in the People’s Republic has soared, up tenfold since the 1960s. The fate of island nations could turn on Beijing’s acceptance of, or denial about, the pressing need to start leaving the black stuff in the ground. A new analysis of official figures that points to a 2.1% decline last year is thus, on the face of it, seriously heartening news.But having been free to ignore Chinese mining in the past, the world now needs to take a crash course – and the opportunities for misunderstanding are legion. For one thing, what ultimately matters is how much coal is burned. Mining wouldn’t happen anywhere, of course, unless there was demand somewhere in the world. But it would be perfectly possible for China to do less digging, and more shipping in from elsewhere. Fortunately, this doesn’t seem to be the case: work by Greenpeace suggests coal consumption is declining too. Much else remains opaque. Are we witnessing a new trend, where growth decouples from coal consumption? Or is this a blip – whether produced by the heavy rains that have reportedly swelled hydroelectric generation, by passing economic vicissitudes, or simply by the running down of stocks? Or could it instead be that the craving for coal has been controlled by burning other fuels? China’s rapidly rising oil imports give credence to that thought.Last but not least, there is the question of trust in the numbers. In an authoritarian state, it is asking a lot to expect independent statistics. In the past, whether by cock-up or conspiracy, there was a gigatonne gap between China’s national carbon accounts and those of its regions – a difference equivalent to Japan’s total emissions.Beijing’s recent commitment to cap its carbon emissions by 2030 creates new reasons to play statistical games – but also gives new reason to hope that its belated environmental efforts might be bearing fruit. The rest of the world owes it to its children to establish which it is.