The sculptor Phyllida Barlow, whose towering installations at Tate Britain were described as “mad and madly ambitious” by the Guardian critic Adrian Searle, is to represent Britain at the Venice Biennale next year.Barlow’s colossal sculptures are made of commonplace materials, often recycled timber, plywood, cardboard and plaster. When in 2014 she filled the massive central hall at Tate Britain with huge constructions apparently in imminent danger of collapse, some visitors were baffled and unnerved, wondering if they were seeing the leftovers from a building project. Searle’s review – which pointed out that Barlow has taught a generation of younger and arguably more famous artists – ended: “There’s a word for this: Wow.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dock by Phyllida Barlow at Tate Britain. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianBarlow, 71, told the BBC she was delighted but completely astonished at being chosen to represent the UK in Venice in 2017.Phyllida Barlow: 'Just going to art school doesn't make you famous' “It’s a massive honour,” she said. “Having been that thing called a minor British artist for most of my working life, I’m now getting things beyond my wildest dreams.”Maria Balshaw, the director of the Whitworth gallery in Manchester, is a member of the committee that advises the British Council on the artists who should represent Britain at the world’s most famous international exhibition. She said: “Phyllida Barlow’s selection as the artist for the British Pavilion at the 2017 Venice Biennale will surely raise a spontaneous cheer from across the many generations of art lovers, artists and students who have had the joy and critical pleasure of encountering her work. It is recognition of a long and illustrious career as a sculptor that challenges our perceptions of that form.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phyllida Barlow’s piece untitled: upturned house, 2 at Tate Modern, London. Photograph: Yui Mok/PAEmma Dexter, the chair of the British Council, said she was truly delighted with the choice. “Barlow’s imposing sculptures and installations have enthralled and intrigued audiences around the globe in recent years.”Barlow was born in Newcastle in 1944. She studied at the Chelsea College of Arts and then the Slade – where she also taught for more than 30 years, becoming professor of fine art. Her work has won many international awards, and in January she was awarded a CBE for services to art.