Dunblane: Our Story9pm, BBC2On 13 March 1996, Thomas Hamilton murdered 16 pupils and their teacher in a gym class in the small Scottish town of Dunblane. Twenty years on, some of those affected – including Ron Taylor, the former headmaster of Dunblane Primary School, and survivor Amy Hutchinson (“I just remember my leg turning to jelly and falling to the floor”) – recall events on a day that irrevocably changed their lives. A dignified tribute to those who were lost; everything you’d want such a bleakly necessary documentary to be. Jonathan WrightFamous, Rich and Homeless9pm, BBC1A surprisingly gritty two-parter in aid of Sport Relief. Four celebs (Julia Bradbury, Willie Thorne, Nick Hancock and Kim Woodburn) leave their privileged lives and nice houses in order to spend a week living rough in London. There’s a lot of talk about motivation and what they will miss, etc, possibly because, cameras or not, their experiences on the streets are more raw a watch than you might think: the hostility, indignity and plain old danger routinely faced by a homeless person are not glossed over. John RobinsonGrantchester9pm, ITVThis amiable, utterly improbable, 1950s-set series about a hunky vicar-sleuth ventures this week into the murky waters of cold war espionage – which, of course, is rampant even amid the spires of Cambridge academia. Nigel Planer plays the master at the Rev Sidney’s (James Norton) old college, where a man has taken a mysterious tumble from a spire. Could it be the work of the Reds? Meanwhile, Keating is trying to set up Sidney with an eligible young woman, though it’s clear where the young cleric’s affections really lie. David StubbsThe Prosecutors: Real Crime and Punishment 9pm, BBC4The final look at the processes of the Crown Prosecution Service concerns the endgame: the trial. Several former boarding-school pupils have come forward to allege indecent assault by a master in the 1970s. Meanwhile, a murderer is back in the dock for a further killing, unsolved since the 1990s. That both cases are historic means no DNA, CCTV or indeed any direct evidence. It’s this quirk, rather than much insight into hitherto unseen CPS practice, that makes both stories compelling. Jack SealeRaised By Wolves10pm, Channel 4Caitlin Moran and sister Caz have once again given their unorthodox childhood a millennial makeover for a second series of this wonderfully ridiculous sitcom. This week sees Germaine (AKA Caitlin) and all of her siblings bar Aretha (AKA Caz) packed off to their dad’s, so mum Della can present a picture of domestic bliss to their landlady. But while the brood are off learning about Wolverhampton’s wildernesses and the evils of fracking, mum and Grampy are soon forced to look for a new home. Hannah J DaviesLimitless9pm, Sky1Brian has a crisis of conscience over the illicit NZT files; the wonder drug is offering little help when he’s floored by a moral howitzer. Before he can untangle that Gordian knot of ethics, there’s the small matter of helping the FBI raid a meth lab, one seemingly operated by an entity so terrifying that even Breaking Bad’s Gus Fring would tremble. An apposite moment for Brian to cram in a comprehensive mastery of martial arts, then. Heck, Brian could probably sort out Brexit during the time it takes to cough. Mark Gibbings-JonesDiscovering Britain9pm, More4Discovering Britain (AKA Celebrity Countryfile) tips up in Pembrokeshire this week for the annual county show, in order to get a better handle on the notion of the British day trip. Odd-couple hosts Maureen Lipman and Larry Lamb get properly stuck in, Maureen finding herself in the enviable position of oiling a pig, and Larry bonding with a heritage sheep breed. Elsewhere, Michael Buerk heads to the Royal Pavilion in Brighton, and the pleasingly gruff and grumblesome Arthur Smith goes on a ramble in the Cotswolds. Ben ArnoldToday’s best live sport• T20 World Cup Cricket: Bangladesh v Netherlands Limited-overs action from Dharamsala followed by Ireland v Oman. 9am, Sky Sports 2• Snooker: World Grand Prix Day two from Venue Cymru in Llandudno. 12.45pm, ITV4• Biathlon: World Cup Coverage of the meeting from Oslo, featuring the women’s individual discipline. 2.15pm, Eurosport 1• Champions League Football: Chelsea v PSG The last-16 clash from Stamford Bridge. 7pm, BT Sport EuropeFilm choiceSynecdoche, New York(Charlie Kaufman, 2008) 1.15am, Film4Charlie Kaufman’s directorial debut is dominated by Philip Seymour Hoffman as the shambling, neurotic New York theatre director Caden Cotard. In the grip of midlife crisis, he buys a gigantic warehouse and sets about reconstructing his life. Play and reality gradually merge in a brilliant, surreal and sometimes baffling comedy-drama.