The scariest thing about carnivores, even wolves, is that they are under threat. Carnivores – especially the apex predators, such as the big cats – bring huge benefits to an ecosystem, affecting species from beetles to bears. They are ecosystem engineers, policing the balance of biodiversity.Human encroachment into habitat is the biggest driver of decline in population, not hunting. The WWF’s Living Planet index suggests habitat loss is one factor which has contributed to a decline of 52% of vertebrate species since the 1970s.The idea that trophy hunting can be an effective form of conservation works when a region sets a quota or issues a number of permits for a number of animals to be killed. An animal might be subject to a “problem permit” because it’s been killing livestock or attacking a community. The “opportunity” to take out this prey is then offered to the richest safari hunters. Unsurprisingly, no game-reserve managers would provide me with a rate card, but it seems that the rarer the animal, the greater the trophy price tag: one South African reserve charges £7,000 to kill a black impala opposed to £100 for a standard model. A Tanzanian lion can apparently go for $75,000 a pop.You could argue that this raises local-conservation revenue and that when a community benefits from controlled hunting revenue, it will be less inclined to turn habitat into agricultural land or accept poaching.But I would argue that trophy hunting as a form of conservation does not live up to expectation. For starters, few community conservation programmes seem to see revenue from it. What this system does best is legitimise hunting for sport – at “wildlife killing competitions” in New Mexico hunters have been accused of using animals as target practice while using the smokescreen of fulfilling official wildlife agency quotas for killing coyote.A 2014 study by Washington State University suggested that killing carnivores to protect livestock actually made things worse. With wolves, whose strict pack hierarchy helps control population growth, the killing of beta and alpha pack members by hunters led to a breakdown in the order, more breeding pairs and more raids on livestock.Interested in the motivation of trophy hunters, I found a study on trophy-hunting tourism in South Africa. It found that hunters hunt for excitement and challenge. Not one mentioned conservation, or doing good. I think that speaks volumes.Green crush       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A critical examination of the aid landscape’: Lisa Smirl’s look at how aid alters power relations between workers and communities.Canadian academic Lisa Smirl died tragically young in 2013, aged 37. The lecturer in international relations at the University of Sussex made a big impact on the way we think about humanitarian aid. Now friends, colleagues and fans have brought Smirl’s work together in the book Spaces of Aid in the hope that the debate and reform that she began will continue. The book is a critical examination of the aid landscape, looking at how the built environment of humanitarian staff – from gated communities and hotels to air-conditioned cars and mobile phones – alters power relations between international aid workers and local communities. A book well worth reading.Spaces of Aid: How Cars, Compounds and Hotels Shape Humanitarianism (Zed Books, £19.99) is out nowIf you have an ethical dilemma, email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.ukFollow the Observer Magazine on Twitter @ObsMagazine