1. It would be catastrophic to burn most of the fossil fuels in the groundThis was the consensus reached by the collection of journalists that met in January to plan the project. It’s also the consensus reached by many of the world’s most prolific scientists, economists and statesmen. Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England has warned that “the vast majority of reserves are unburnable” while Desmond Tutu has called for an apartheid style boycott of fossil fuel companies. Barack Obama has said simply: “We’re not going to be able to burn it all”. To avoid catastrophic and runaway consequences, the increase in global temperatures must be kept to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Yet the oil, gas and coal reserves that companies plan to burn will emit quantities of carbon that will take us well beyond that target. If we continue on our current trajectory, international scientists estimate we will exceed the 2C rise by mid-century. We need to keep the fossil fuels in the ground to avoid this. 2. The international climate negotiations are silent on the issue“You’ve been negotiating all my life,” said Canadian student Anjali Appadurai as she stood on the podium at the 2011 international climate conference in Durban, South Africa. In the 23-year history of these negotiations, there has as yet been no mention of keeping fossil fuels in the ground. The focus has been on regulating emissions, not on regulating production.“Breaking such silences requires a conscious and painful effort,” writes George Monbiot in his piece on the issue. “It seemed so obvious, so overwhelming, that I couldn’t understand why it wasn’t on everyone’s lips. Before writing about it, I circled the topic like a dog investigating a suspicious carcass. Why, I wondered, is no one touching this? Is it toxic?”3. But there is hope – and it doesn’t depend on ParisKeep it in the Ground petitionIn December, representatives from 196 countries will meet to negotiate an international agreement on climate change. As important as this will be, the climate fight won’t wait for Paris, argues environmental campaigner Bill McKibben.He is the founder of 350.org, a global climate movement that has founded the fastest growing divestment campaign in history. It targets institutions – from universities to pension funds to faith organisations – and asks them to move their investments out of the fossil fuel industry.4. The Gates Foundation’s fossil fuel investments run into the billionsAccording to a Guardian analysis of their most recent tax filings, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have a minimum of $1.4bn (£1bn) invested in oil, coal and gas companies. These endowments are held by 35 of the top 200 fossil fuel companies, according to rankings of their reserves.Despite declaring that climate change demands that the world “moves much more aggressively – right now”, the world’s largest charitable foundation refused to comment on fossil fuel investment. A spokesman for Bill Gates’ private office said: “We respect the passion of advocates for action on climate change, and recognise that there are many views on how best to address it. Bill is privately investing considerable time and resources in the effort [to develop clean energy].”5. The Wellcome Trust will not divest despite excluding some fossil fuel companiesAt least £450m worth of the Wellcome Trust’s £18bn endowment is invested in Shell, BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and BP. The foundation has refused the Guardian’s call for it to divest, arguing that the campaign is only a “grand gesture” and that engagement with the companies “offers a better prospect for change than divestment”. However, last week the Guardian revealed that Wellcome disposed of $138m (£94m) it had invested in ExxonMobil, the oil company that has funded climate change denial.6. You care (so does Tilda Swinton, the minister for energy and climate change and some of the world’s most senior scientists)In the past 10 days, more than 140,000 of you have signed our petition asking the Wellcome Trust and the Gates Foundation to commit to divesting from fossil fuels and to immediately freeze any new investments.Tilda Swinton, Yotam Ottolenghi and Bianca Jagger have added their support to the cause. Ed Davey, minister for energy and climate change has given the campaign his strong backing, while calling for divestment from “very risky” coal assets. Ottolenghi (@ottolenghi)Keep it in the ground: Guardian climate change campaign pic.twitter.com/7rK3SuNSQp http://t.co/Cv4A9QL4ctMarch 16, 2015Some of Europe’s most senior scientists have also spoken out. Professor Anne Glover, former chief scientific adviser to the European commission said: These are leaders. These are people that others look to. So they have enormous responsibility. That’s why for me it is important that they react to this.