What a relief to hear something substantial from Ivana Trump, who I feared was becoming the Trump administration’s Shelley Miscavige. For my money, what her ex’s presidential campaign really lacked was regular interventions from Ivana, to the extent that I worried Ivana was trapped under something heavy – like a 50-volume confidentiality agreement, or the cocktail terrace at Mar-a-Lago.It’s not the full Miscavige, obviously – the wife of Scientology’s chief executive Thetan, David Miscavige, has not been seen in public since 2007 (the LAPD even interviewed the couple at one point after former Scientologist Leah Remini filed a missing person report). In the case of Ivana, the occasional set of pictures would appear as Donald Trump advanced inexorably towards the White House, presumably to reassure any concerned voters that she wasn’t confined to the Trump Tower attic. There were some long-range shots of Ivana on a ski-slope, for instance, and another set of her walking in St Tropez. There, she was with her 44-year-old sometime husband, one Rossano Rubicondi, a relationship that has been characterised as on-again, off-again. Looking at the snaps, I couldn’t decide quite which one of those states it was currently in. But young Mr Rubicondi was wearing an expression that, for legal reasons, can only be described as entirely readable.Whether that same description will be applied to Ivana’s just-announced book is unclear. For now, this is what we know: the first Mrs Trump has just signed a deal for a volume entitled Raising Trump. The work will be one that “reflects on her extraordinary life and the raising of her three children – Donald Jr, Eric and Ivanka – and recounts the lessons she taught her children as they were growing up”.Ivana Trump to write memoir about raising US president's children Raising Trump will published on 12 September by Simon & Shitstir – or Schuster, as I believe they still have it. Either way, its existence serves as a reminder that publishing energy can be neither created nor destroyed. It can only be transferred, and Raising Trump has clearly replaced the recently pulled Milo Yiannopoulos book in the S&S stable.But let’s hear more about the contents of this landmark event. The president may be the children’s father, we learn, but “it is Ivana who raised them and proudly instilled in them what she believes to be the most important life lessons: loyalty, honesty, integrity and drive”. Furthermore, we are informed that the work will be “unfiltered”.For many people, the thought of an origin story written by their mum is not entirely appealing. Perhaps, as is traditional in these tales, we will learn how the Trump progeny came by their special gifts. Was there, perhaps, some kind of accident in an interior decor lab, which conferred Ivana with her superpowers of blind-eye-turning – and accessorising? As for Uday and Schmuday – or Donald Jr and Eric, as they prefer it – it will be interesting to discover the counterweight to the various stories of filial ingratitude that did the rounds during the campaign.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ivana Trump: Now, what have I told you kids …? Photograph: Jamie McCarthy/Getty ImagesFor now, they are backing their mama in her literary endeavours, telling future readers: “We are immensely proud of our mother and excited for the publication of her new book, Raising Trump.” I’m glad they said “new” book – they’ll be sticklers for accuracy, and will certainly want to nod toward her earlier canon, most notably perhaps the various racy novels Ivana … wrote, is it? … in the 90s. For now, the Trump kids want to stress: “She is an amazing mom, teacher and inspiration to all of us. We are incredibly grateful to have grown up in such a loving and close family.”Whatever they say. I mean, I know Ivana once signed a sworn deposition accusing Donald of raping her (later saying she hadn’t meant it to be interpreted in a “literal or criminal sense”). But as Trump’s lawyer explained last year of that alleged rape: “It’s not the word you’re trying to make it into. And, of course, understand that by that very definition, you cannot rape your spouse.”The real puzzle is Trump actually permitting Ivana to get back into the publishing game. I don’t want to teach the president how to suck eggs, but the traditional tack in these situations is to do anything you can to stop them writing a book. Back in 2003, Simon Cowell spotted a little local difficulty on the horizon when his former fiancee Sinitta announced she would be writing a memoir. It was at that point that he hired her as a well-paid X Factor consultant/garden nymph. Nothing was heard about the planned memoir ever again.Clearly, Donald has any number of positions to offer that are even more covetable than judge’s houses mentor. Could he not just make Ivana deputy at the Defense Department, and consign Raising Trump to the oblivion of terminal writer’s block?