Lord George Weidenfeld, a giant of British literature who published authors from Harold Wilson to Vladimir Nabokov after arriving in Britain as a Jewish refugee from Austria, has died, aged 96.The publishing house he founded more than 60 years ago, Weidenfeld & Nicolson, confirmed his death on Wednesday morning, saying that Weidenfeld had remained “actively involved with [the firm] until his death”, regularly coming into its offices and taking “great delight in the celebrations” when the publisher was named imprint of the year at the Bookseller awards in 2015. “He was an inspiration to everyone he worked with, always supportive and enthusiastic about new writers and always wise, and encouraging of younger members of staff,” said the publisher.“I shall miss George more than I can say,” said publisher Alan Samson of his colleague. “Not only his publishing genius, but his kindness, his boundless curiosity and passion for books. He was an inspiration to so many of us. I first met George when I was a 21-year-old trainee at Weidenfeld & Nicolson’s offices in Clapham and he continued to be the most wonderful mentor to the end.”Lord Weidenfeld obituary Weidenfeld, who was born in 1919, left Nazi Vienna for the UK at the age of 19 in 1938. He founded his publishing house with Nigel Nicolson in 1949, after working at the BBC Overseas Service. He intended, the publisher said, that it “should be a serious list with a European slant”. Shortly afterwards, he took a year’s sabbatical, spending it as political adviser to President Weizmann of Israel, but returned to the firm, where he published big-name authors from Charles de Gaulle to Pope John Paul II and Henry Kissinger. Other heavyweight names he published included Edna O’Brien and Nobel-winning geneticist James Watson, author of The Double Helix.Future prime minister Harold Wilson was one of the first authors he acquired, signing up the young civil servant’s New Deal for Coal with a £50 advance. The book would go on to become a success, but the firm’s first major hit was in 1953, with Isaiah Berlin’s The Hedgehog and the Fox.In 1959, Weidenfeld & Nicolson risked obscenity laws to publish Lolita. “I used to make a pilgrimage to see him twice a year,” Weidenfeld told the Guardian of Nabokov in 2009, as he celebrated the firm’s 60th anniversary.As news of his death broke, tributes poured in from as wide a variety of names as Weidenfeld published. “Very sad to hear about the death of George Weidenfeld, an absolutely extraordinary and remarkable man who did so much good in the world,” wrote MP Ed Vaizey on Twitter. The novelist Robert Harris said: “Sad to hear about George Weidenfeld, a force of nature, who fought a duel with a Nazi student in Vienna in 1937.” Baroness Deech also tweeted her respects to the “greatest Zionist and British Jew of his generation. Philanthropist, reconciler, intellectual, statesman.”Germany’s foreign minster Frank-Walter Steinmeier issued a statement, acknowledging the loss of “an outstanding personality” who “impressed us all his life with his versatility, astuteness and intellect.”“[Weidenfeld] was a builder of bridges who, with all his energy, campaigned on issues that are now more topical than ever: be it religious dialogue, Europe’s relationship with Israel or European integration. He steadfastly defended his values and ideals even when he met opposition or found himself swimming against the ‘mainstream’,” Steinmeier said.World Jewish Congress president Ronald S Lauder called Weidenfeld “a truly outstanding man and one of the most inspiring figures of the 20th century.” “I am deeply saddened that George has left us,” Lauder said. “He had great wisdom, and he was a friend who always gave me valuable advice. Until the end, his mind was as sharp as ever, and he never retired.”Weidenfeld’s friendships with major names were legion. In 2009, the architect Norman Foster threw him a 90th birthday party at his Swiss castle. He was a regular guest at Pope John Paul II’s summer seminars at his private gardens in Castel Gandolfo. His socialising was legendary, but Weidenfeld also ran international think tank the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, was a regular columnist for German publications, and a philanthropist: last year, he launched the Weidenfeld Safe Havens Fund, which funded Christian Syrians fleeing Islamic State, saying he did it because he had “a debt to repay”.He told the Times the move was inspired by memories of Jewish child refugees being rescued from the Nazis: “I had a debt to repay. It was Quakers and other Christian denominations who brought those children to England. It was a very high-minded operation and we Jews should also be thankful and do something for the endangered Christians.”Oliver Marre talks to George Weidenfeld, a man whose life has been an open book In 1969, he was knighted by Wilson, and in 1976, he was made a life peer. Weidenfeld & Nicolson became part of Orion in 1992, its new parent company subsequently acquired by Hachette UK.Tim Hely Hutchinson, chief executive of Hachette UK, said he first met Weidenfeld in the 1980s, “and came to know him well and admire him enormously since that time”. “He was a brilliant publisher, a driving force in the careers of the many distinguished authors he published, taking a delight in ideas, and applying his boundless energy to the issues of the day,” said Hely Hutchinson. “We will miss his wise counsel, his generosity, his brilliant publishing instinct and his great insight but there is consolation in the fact that he lived a long, wonderful and constructive life.”