"He has the temperament of an unstable nightclub bouncer, jeers at violence when it breaks out at his rallies and wears his disdain for women and minorities with pride. God help America. God help us all."   JK Rowling    Stephen King    James Patterson    Ian McEwan "This is the C-minus guy who sat behind you in history and poked you with his pencil and smirked when you asked him to stop. That smirk is now on every front page in America. It is not what anybody — left, right, or center — looks for in a president. There's no philosophy here, just an attitude."   George Saunders    Don DeLillo    Margaret Atwood    Garrison Keillor "For years, he had been caught on camera with his hair swirled high in the air, exposing his bald dome, his golden hairs standing on end, 12 inches skyward. He looked ludicrous and vulnerable. He looked like a clown. So in the early days of this campaign, he arrived at a solution: the hat."   Thomas Pynchon    Dave Eggers    Lionel Shriver    Louise Erdrich "They did not understand that what he found unbearable was to be ignored, and for this she was grateful, because being in the news brought Donald the closest he could be to contentment. He would never be a truly content person, she knew this, because of that primal restlessness that thrummed in him, the compulsion to prove something to himself that he feared he never would."   Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie From her short story about Trump's wife Melania, The Arrangements.    Joyce Carol Oates    Dave Eggers    Martin Amis "He might not really want to be President of the United States. Just because he says he does and acts that way... why would that matter? He says anything that comes into his head – no matter how stupid and implausible – and is forever claiming not to have said things we know he did say. It’s as if he thinks it’s we who are insubstantial. And worse – that we’re stupid, and he’s invented us just for the fun of it."   Joyce Carol Oates    Richard Ford    Marlon James    Martin Amis “Even if he was able to govern without blowing up the world, could we look at a guy who resembles a cable game show host for four years?”   Neil Gaiman    Stephen King    Lionel Shriver    Margaret Atwood “Emotionally primitive and intellectually barbaric, the Trump manifesto would be a reasonably good sick joke — if it weren’t for one deeply disturbing observation... Every now and again, Americans feel the need to exalt and heroize an ignoramus.”   Martin Amis    Ian McEwan    JK Rowling    Will Self "These nutcases have always been there, have always voted, have always tried to influence legislation, and didn't suddenly gain greater prominence or power just because you're just noticing them. Trump's real threat is something that appeals the establishment conservatives and liberals: Oligarchy."   Douglas Coupland    Don DeLillo    Marlon James    Jeanette Winterson "I honestly think that if you put Trump in a novel before last year, it wouldn’t work. It would seem too far-fetched. You would be accused of writing farce; you would be accused of being condescending about the American people."   Philip Roth    Margaret Atwood    Graham Swift    Lionel Shriver "He is the Manchurian Candidate."   Salman Rushdie    Margaret Atwood    Ian McEwan    Gay Talese You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers