Richard Gadd has won this year’s Edinburgh comedy award with his extraordinary personal show about difficulties overcoming a sexual assault he experienced four years ago. The show, Monkey See Monkey Do, saw off seven other nominees including serial runner-up James Acaster and political comic Nish Kumar. The Scottish comic’s victory was announced in a lunchtime ceremony in Edinburgh on Saturday, where he was handed the trophy by last year’s winner, Sam Simmons. He receives £10,000 in prize money.Comedian Richard Gadd: 'I've punished myself so much' Gadd’s victory crowns a festival at which comedians have been more explicit about the emotional challenges behind their joking facades. The 26-year-old from Fife, whose Waiting for Gaddot failed to receive a comedy award nomination despite the hype, gave an emotional speech on accepting the prestigious award. “The worst thing that experience [of assault] did was take my confidence away from me. Maybe this award will help me bring it back.” The best newcomer award went to Gadd’s compatriot Scott Gibson, whose show centred around the personal trauma of suffering a brain haemorrhage at 24. The Glaswegian’s storytelling hour supplied big, if sometimes squeamish, laughs and was a popular winner. Gibson goes home with £5,000. The other newcomer nominees included the favourite, US comedian Michelle Wolf, and the current English comedian of the year, Brennan Reece.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Big, if sometimes squeamish, laughs with Scott Gibson. Photograph: Jane Hobson/Rex/ShutterstockGadd and Gibson’s double-whammy is notable in the context of an award that has seldom favoured homegrown comics. Gadd is only the second Scottish standup to win in the prize’s 35-year history, after Arnold Brown in 1987. (The 2006 winner Phil Nichol was born in Scotland, but is Canadian.) Accepting his award – and after thanking the hospital that helped save his life – Gibson said that, “sometimes those of us in Scotland get [overwhelmed by] the Fringe and tell ourselves we can’t be part of it. So hopefully this year will show that we can come here and tell our stories too and play a big role.”In the final category, the Panel prize – which rewards projects held to represent the spirit of the Fringe – the award went to Iraq Out & Loud, an undertaking that saw comedians and others (including Stewart Lee, the MP Tommy Sheppard and the novelist Ian Rankin) read out the Chilcot Report in its entirety. The performance – organised by maverick comedy promoter Bob Slayer and the standup Omid Djalili – took 284 hours and 45 minutes of constant reading.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘Bit daunting, really’: the Edinburgh standups reading Chilcot in fullThe Edinburgh comedy award (formerly the Perrier, now sponsored by lastminute.com) is run by the West End theatre producer Nica Burns, and judged by a panel of critics, industry figures and members of the public. This year it was chaired by Alice Jones, arts editor of the i. In the days before the announcement, opinion seemed to harden around Gadd as favourite for the award – although his show is less ostensibly commercial than most former winners. Less purely funny than his 2015 offering, Monkey See Monkey Do is a deserved winner for its formal intricacy – it unfolds in audio, video and on stage, while Gadd pounds a treadmill – confessional intimacy, and the challenge it throws down to conventional definitions of masculinity. It now heads to Soho theatre, London, for a run from 18 October.