I am, admittedly a lover of excess, but so am I a lover of economy. Using up all of the parts makes a lot of sense in the sweet kitchen. At Violet we wash vanilla beans that have been used to flavour custard, dry them out and steep them in vodka for our own vanilla extract. We make an apple glaze with the discarded peels and cores of apples used in a cake and best of all, we candy the peels of the citrus shells left over from our freshly squeezed juices. Creating a delicacy from a waste product is incredibly satisfying, and I hope you share in my enthusiasm.The candied peel can of course be eaten on its own or simply dipped in a little melted chocolate to end a meal. Another favourite sweet treat is the mendiant, or chocolate drop. You can add anything to the top of them: I love to use the candied peel, sugared flower petals and nuts or even silver balls for a little sparkle. This is a way to tidy up your cupboard and use ageing cake decorations or the last few pecans or hazelnuts from a cake you made a couple of weeks ago. The more fun you have decorating them, the better they will taste.Readers’ recipe swap: clementines | Dale Berning-Sawa Candied grapefruit peelMakes about 1kg4 grapefruit (ideally, the peel leftover from juiced fruits)2kg granulated sugar1kg (1 litre) water, plus more for blanching150g caster sugar, for coating1 Cut the grapefruits in half and juice them. Reserve the juice for drinking or using in another recipe.2 Put the juiced grapefruit shells in a pan and cover with cold water. Bring to the boil and cook for 10 minutes. Drain, then return the peel to the pan and cover with fresh cold water. Bring to the boil again, then drain. Repeat this blanching process five times.3 After the final blanching, test the tenderness of the peel by piercing it with the tip of a knife. If it still seems a little resistant, blanch it again.4 Drain the peel and let it cool to the touch. With a spoon, scrape away the membrane and some of the soft pith. Then slice into 5mm strips.5 Put the blanched and sliced peel, granulated sugar and water into a clean pan and stir to dissolve the sugar. Once it has dissolved, stop stirring and bring the syrup to a boil. Boil for about an hour and a half, until the syrup reduces and small foamy bubbles form on top. The peel will become slightly translucent.6 Remove the peel from the syrup with a slotted spoon and lay out on a wire rack placed over a piece of parchment paper on a baking tray to catch the drips. The next day, touch the peel to see if it is almost dry, but still tacky. If it is too moist, the sugar you toss it in will dissolve; if it is too dry, the caster sugar will not adhere to the peel. When the peel is ready, toss in the caster sugar.7 Store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 6 months.Chocolate mendiantsMakes about 24400g dark chocolate20g dried cranberries40g candied grapefruit peel, chopped40g crystallised ginger, chopped20g crystallised violetsAny extra sprinkles1 Line two large baking sheets with parchment.2 Break the chocolate into small pieces, and put in a heatproof bowl set over a pan of simmering water. Turn off the heat. Leave on the stove (with the heat off) for around 15 minutes. Stir occasionally, and remove the bowl from the heat as soon as the chocolate has melted. If it hasn’t melted, repeat the process by turning on the heat and then off again.3 Spoon the chocolate on to the lined trays, to create small mendiants. Top with the dried cranberries, chopped peel, ginger, violets or any leftover sprinkles from other baking projects.Claire Ptak is a pastry chef, author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon