Lady Midnight by Cassandra Clare continues the story of the Blackwood children as they break the Accords to get their brother Mark back; the story follows a few years after the last Mortal Instruments book. I was very excited for this book because I preferred the dynamics of their family and was keen to discover more about them.Since its release all I had read was positive reviews about how fantastic it was, that it is her best book yet. Once I had finished the book I wondered what the fuss was about, but I thought maybe I was mistaken so I re-read the ending and I still was left confused. Now don’t get me wrong I do like the book, but for me it isn’t fantastic, it is blah. The characters are great; they are very original and individual. The way their quirks fit together and clash like a family is fantastic; Clare’s character development is phenomenal! My favourite is – well, actually I don’t have a favourite because I loved them all! The characters were definitely the best bit; my issues arose with the plot.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The thing is I did like components of the plot, such as the very ending with the link to the next book, or the surprise arrival of a character. My issue was that I found it predictable; I guessed who the villain was and predicted most of the events which is why I was left disappointed. But is wasn’t only that, it was the return of the characters from the Mortal Instruments – for me, it just did not work. I loved the idea but since they were older their actions and everything related to them was wrong; I know people can change but it was too far, it didn’t fit. This (Spoiler Warning) was my main massive issue: once Julian and Emma return and arrives to Clary etc. They throughout the book break countless laws but when they are about to be reprimanded it is all explained away. Even if it was a telling off that would have been satisfactory but there was zilch; it was, ‘yeah we expect it, that’s fine bye’. That just doesn’t work; it clashes with all the times people have broken the Accords in the previous books. This for me just dismissed the importance of the rules, and spoilt the book.I did, as I have said, like it; it is not terrible, it is quite good. However I have sadly come to the conclusion that it is an over-hyped book; I had such high expectations which has meant for me it has fallen flat. I still love Cassandra Clare’s books and will probably read the next but this one for me was disappointing. Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop