A dazzling, extravagantly decorated 16th-century English prayer book, which some experts believe may have belonged to the young Henry VIII, is to be auctioned at Sotheby’s with a £2.5m estimate – 156 years after the same auction house sold it for £84.Few such English books survived the Reformation, and this one is particularly rare because it contains an image of Thomas Becket, which survived the widespread destruction of his image after Henry VIII outlawed the cult of the saint and martyr. The experts believe another image of Becket was removed from the book, but the censors missed this one.Among the 50 full-page illustrations, the royal connections of the book are clear in one showing Henry VI as a saint – with a little figure of the owner of the book kneeling before him. He was never formally canonised, but was venerated by both Henry VII and his great nephew Henry VIII. Scholarly and highly religious, Henry was also mentally unstable, and was taken prisoner and then deposed by his cousin who became Edward IV. He died mysteriously in the Tower of London in 1471, possibly murdered on Edward’s orders.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The book contains an image of Thomas Becket, which survived the widespread destruction of his image after Henry VIII outlawed the cult of the saint and martyr. Photograph: Sotheby'sThe Bute Hours – named after its 20th-century owner, the 5th Marquess of Bute – was made around 1500. Mara Hoffman, senior specialist in western manuscripts at Sotheby’s, who will auction the book on 6 December, says the strong royalist bias of the images indicates that it was made for a nobleman of the royal household. Some experts have suggested it was made for the young prince Henry, who would become Henry VIII.She also believes the book was made at a time of plague – which broke out in London in 1499-1500, so virulently that Henry VII moved to Calais with members of his court – with an opening illustration of St Roch, patron saint of protection against the dreaded disease, and an invocation to the Welsh St Armel to protect the user against “all manner of sikeness & soris”.The book was sold in 1983 at Sotheby’s for £154,000, after Bute’s death, when his son John, the elder of twins by 15 minutes, became the 6th marquess. It has recently been on loan to the Denver Art Museum, but is now being sold by Denver-based collectors William and Bernadette Berger to raise funds for their charity, the Berger Collection Educational Trust. 