Mary MacLeod, who has died aged 78, was a prolific character actor whose face was more familiar than her name. She left her most lasting impression in two of the establishment-baiting films of the director Lindsay Anderson.First, she secured herself a place in screen history when she played the housemaster’s wife Mrs Kemp in the private school satire If …. (1968), starring Malcolm McDowell, in which she walked naked down a corridor and into the boys’ dormitory. It was only the second time that the British Board of Film Censors, as it was then named, had passed full-frontal female nudity (the first was in Blow-Up in 1966). The BBFC did a trade-off, agreeing to allow this in exchange for the deletion of male full-frontal nudity from a shower scene.Five years later, MacLeod was in vampish mode in the capitalism allegory O Lucky Man! – again starring McDowell – and, like some other cast members, she took more than one role to show the likeness between different characters. She was seen as a landlady seducing McDowell’s coffee sales rep; then she played a vicar’s wife preventing him stealing the church fruit at Harvest time by offering him her breast to suckle. “That’s God’s food,” she says. “You’re only a boy.”MacLeod was in more quintessentially English-lady mode for her best television role: she played the flustered gossip Godiva “Diva” Plaistow in the Channel 4 adaptation of EF Benson’s comic 1930s novel Mapp & Lucia (1985-86), starring Prunella Scales and Geraldine McEwan as the leading lights in Tilling society.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mary MacLeod, left, and Prunella Scales in the Channel 4 adaptation of EF Benson’s comic novel Mapp & Lucia (1985-86). Photograph: ITV/RexShe was born in Birmingham, the second of four children of John MacLeod, a coach builder, and his wife, Mary (nee Canavan), who were both Scottish. She was educated at Pelsall senior school, near Walsall, and while there she joined a local amateur dramatics group. MacLeod continued to act in the evenings after she became an English and drama teacher at a school in Darlaston, Staffordshire. Her break came with the chance to perform at Birmingham repertory theatre in 1956-57.Seizing the opportunity to further her acting career, MacLeod moved to London. In 1965, she played the secretary in Miniatures, David Cregan’s comprehensive school drama, at the Royal Court theatre. Anderson, better known as a director at the venue that championed works by the Angry Young Men, played the school’s deputy head. Three years later, Anderson and Miriam Brickman, the Royal Court’s casting director, gave her the role of Mrs Kemp in If ….On stage, she had a long association with the National Theatre company. She played the nurse in Peter Shaffer’s dark psychological drama Equus (Old Vic, 1973-74), then, at the Olivier, Cottesloe and Lyttelton theatres between 1981 and 1993, her roles included the pub owner Mrs Hitchcock in Serjeant Musgrave’s Dance, Ursula in Much Ado About Nothing, Isla’s indomitable mother Maggie in When We Were Women and the long-suffering rector’s wife, Heather Espy, in Racing Demon.MacLeod took dozens of character roles on television. Becky Clegg in People Like Us (1978), an adaptation of RF Delderfield’s novels set in a post-first world war London suburb, was a rare instance of her being seen throughout a series.Most of her parts were one-offs, including June Wade in the Play for Today Headmaster (1974), Norah Trotter in The Duchess of Duke Street (1976), the nurse tending the dying Lord Marchmain in Brideshead Revisited (1981) and Ivy Lomas, one of the victims, in Harold Shipman: Doctor Death (2002). She was also in two of Dennis Potter’s television classics, as Valerie Holdsworth in Brimstone & Treacle (1982) and Sister Malone in The Singing Detective (1986).In the cinema, MacLeod was reunited with Anderson in Britannia Hospital (1982), in which she played a casualty ward’s sister, and she was a no-nonsense music librarian in Hear My Song (1991), the director Peter Chelsom’s biopic of the Irish tenor Josef Locke. Her career ended in 2003 after a stroke.In 1961, MacLeod married Michael Buckley, who died in 2008. Their son Benjamin died at the age of two. MacLeod is survived by their twin children, Alexander and Alison, and her brother Andrew.• Mary Katrina Anne MacLeod, actor, born 6 July 1937; died 7 June 2016