In a bid to increase flagging viewing figures, Neighbours has deferred to the soap opera manual with a week-long misery fest called Hotel Death Trap. If in doubt, destroy the set – and there are many different ways to do it. Last week on EastEnders, Phil Mitchell took to the car lot with a digger, while both the Queen Vic and Phil’s Arches garage have been blown up with reassuring regularity over the years.This isn’t even the first time Neighbours’ Lassiter’s complex has been blown up. Luckless Toadie’s wedding was interrupted by a gas explosion there in 2013, while the Waterhole pub was turned into a fireball in 1993. And in 2004, the whole complex burned to the ground to mark the season finale. Sleazy Paul Robinson was the guilty party that time, so this time round he’s the obvious culprit, but would he be so stupid to try the trick again? More pressing is the question: who dies? So pressing, in fact, that the show is devoting an hour-long special called Neighbours: Who Dies? to answer it. But watching as an old fan who hasn’t seen it in years, it’s more a case of Neighbours: Who’s That?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Is Paul Robinson the culprit? … Erinsborough says goodbye to Lassiter’s (and not for the first time). Photograph: Channel 5The childhood viewer returning from the exile of adulthood will find much of interest, and an equal amount to despair over. Did I waste my childhood, you ponder as you peer into the gentle, dampening eyes of Doug Willis, or Toadie, crushed by a bed of rubble, screaming into the void. I’m part of the generation that spent hours upon accumulating hours hooked to Neighbours as if it was some nourishing drip, feeding me the fictional lives of these most sunny of all soap characters. My wife used to write Neighbours plot lines into her diary with greater frequency than relaying her own life on the page. “Paul Robinson’s had a nervous breakdown,” her entry reads in the squashy bubble writing of a 90s 10-year-old, before a week later assuring the future reader: “Paul Robinson’s OK now.” The appeal of Neighbours was its warmth and familiarity. It looked like the TV company had taken the people who live down your cracked and damp street and whisked them away to live in happier climes.But we’re a long way from the show’s late-80s near 20 million viewer peak, with Channel 5’s average ratings clocking in at less than one million at lunch and 700,000 at tea time. In 2013, Neighbours: The Explosion (a strikingly similar late-night spin-off) added hundreds of thousands of viewers for the rest of the year, so it’s not hard to see the thinking this time. But Neighbours always had potential disaster waiting in the wings. It was Ramsay Street’s perceived serenity that made the show’s moments of absurd tragedy all the more ludicrous. Harold’s spectacles washing up on the rocks when he “died” (returning years later with amnesia). Toadie and Dee driving off a cliff after getting married, in a scene so shonkily edited my friend recorded the repeat so we could watch it again in slow motion. Julie’s mysterious death on the lawn. Cheryl’s tumble in the road, the least spectacular but somehow the least plausible.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neighbours: Who Dies? … Steph looks after Paige and a mystery man from the explosion at Lassiter’s. Photograph: Channel 5Dr Karl Kennedy always appears at the merest whiff of death. More than your average GP, when disaster strikes he doubles up as Australia’s surgeon general, who all healthcare professionals and even the emergency services defer to. He also acts as grim reaper. When he turns up, a slight sprain transforms into a life-threatening trauma. In this, at least, the spin-off doesn’t disappoint. But surely there are better ways to revive Neighbours than fall back on the comforting embrace of an exploding boiler – something that updates and refreshes, while attracts new viewers. Here are some ideas. Ramsay Street: LiveRealising my brother-in-law lived round the corner from Pin Oak Court in suburban Melbourne – which has doubled as Ramsay St, Erinsborough, since the 80s – we took a short trip to the familiar spot on a visit to Australia earlier this year. The security who guard the residents round the clock attested to how boring their job is. Yet in the brief moment we were there, a van screeched into the cul de sac and a trio of builders turned smartphone-wielding selfie artists piled out for shots in front of Karl and Susan’s. A live stream of goings on here would be worth it, even just to see how long it takes to turn into Aussie suburbia’s answer to #DrummondPuddleWatch.Neighbours: The TripFor years, Neighbours has been up there with Bob Marley and Nag Champa incense sticks as a recognised accompaniment to student blazing. As a nod to the brave excesses of Doug and Jim’s magic mushroom experience out in the bush in 1992, this special episode, guest written by Flight of the Conchords’ Bret McKenzie and Jemaine Clement and soundtracked by Aussie psych outfit Tame Impala, follows a selection of characters on a fantastical trip into Ramsay Street’s kaleidoscopic collective id, after some high-grade space cakes accidentally go on sale in the coffee shop.Karl Kennedy: ManhuntEverybody’s favourite wandering-handed general practitioner’s life gets turned upside down when he is predictably exposed by the Ashley Madison data dump. The shame leads Karl to leave Ramsay Street in such a hurry that he accidentally runs over Susan on the way. The resulting manhunt leads to a standoff in the bush, Harold Bishop returning to help negotiate his safe capture. Neighbours is on Channel 5, weekdays at 1.45pm and 5.30pm. Hotel Death Trap week airs from 4 April, and Neighbours: Who Dies? airs on 4 April at 10pm.