The stereoscope provided 19th-century viewers with the illusion of 3D depth, in much the same way as the virtual reality headsets of today. In the pre-television, pre-movie days, families would gather round the stereoscope instead.Stereoscopic photography uses the binocularity of human vision to recreate the illusion of depth. Our eyes are set slightly apart, meaning each eye sees the world from a different angle. Our brains combine these two images into one, giving us spatial depth.Stereograph: A man with a camera perches high above the city. Image: Underwood & Underwood/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public Library/Guardian GraphicsThe stereoscope allowed viewers to see a pair of two-dimensional images taken from slight different angles – one for the right eye, one for the left. Viewed through a stereoscope, the brain combines the two offset photographs into one, giving the impression of a 3D image.Wiggle stereoscopy is a technique which combines the two stereographic images into one animated GIF. The New York Public Library’s Labs project developed Stereogranimator a few years back to allow users to create their own – although we’ve slowed ours down a touch.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Bowery – the oldest thoroughfare on Manhattan Island. Photograph: Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public LibraryThe two near-identical prints were made with a double-lens camera. They originally came pasted on a card, as shown above.Stereograph: Brooklyn Bridge. Image: Keystone View Company/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public Library/Guardian Graphics“Between the 1850s and the 1910s, stereographic images were a mainstay of home entertainment, perhaps second only to reading as a personal leisure activity,” says the NYPL. “Like television, stereos were an intimate medium viewed by individuals or small groups at home, or at churches, schools or clubs”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The New York Tribune office. Photograph: Blauvelt & Co/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public LibraryPhotographers around the world produced millions of stereoscopic views between 1850 and 1930. Stereograph: The Flatiron building. Image: HC White/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public Library/Guardian GraphicsQuality ranged from sharp original silver prints to cheaply produced copies, and eventually half-tone photomechanical processes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bathing at Coney Island. Photograph: Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public LibraryStereoscopes varied from small handheld devices for viewing single images to large pieces of furniture that could display a changing series of 50 or more views. Stereograph: Wall Street. Image: American Stereoscopic Company/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public Library/Guardian Graphics“The makers of stereos were equally diverse,” says the NYPL. “Into the 1880s, they ranged from eager amateurs photographing family scenes for private distribution to the famed camera artists of the day who demanded high-quality publishing and distribution and got it. By the 1890s, stereo photographers tended to be skilled and enterprising professionals who either sold their images to large commercial producers or worked anonymously under contract to them.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The pupils of Grammar School No 33 in New York City assemble for morning exercises. Photograph: GW Pach/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public LibraryThe rise of movie newsreels and illustrated magazines like Life spelled the end for stereoscopy in the 1930s.Stereograph: Ice skaters in Central Park. Image: Strohmeyer & Wyman/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public Library/Guardian GraphicsTens of thousands of stereographic images are available on the NYPL Digital Collections website.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The New York City skyline. Photograph: Keystone View Company/Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public LibraryThere are instructions on how to make your own simple stereoscope here.Stereograph: The motor car begins to dominate. Image: Robert N Dennis collection/New York Public Library/Guardian GraphicsFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion