Gary Pulsifer, who has died of cancer aged 59, was a pioneering publisher of literary fiction, much of it in translation, and the great majority of it through Arcadia Books, the publishing house he founded in 1996. He showcased foreign novels by authors including the Angolan writer José Eduardo Agualusa, the Moroccan Tahar ben Jelloun, and the Parisian crime novelist Dominique Manotti, all of which won major prizes; and he was an early champion of the Scandi crime wave. Pulsifer even found space in his list of more than 60 overseas authors for the seminal memoirs of the Hungarian aristocrat Miklós Bánffy.Arcadia expanded its radical remit by acquiring Black Amber, a list of black and minority ethnic authors, and courted contention with White Masai (2001), Corinne Hofmann’s memoir of marrying into the Masai people. Pulsifer crossed a line, however, with Lady Colin Campbell’s novel Empress Bianca (2005); the socialite Lily Safra threatened legal action, claiming it was a thinly veiled account of her life, and it had to be withdrawn.Letter: Gary Pulsifer obituary Pulsifer’s love of gossip, veering towards the scandalous, could coexist with his serious concerns – with publishing gay literature and the sexual politics of Erica Jong and Shere Hite, for example. His fiction list contained well-known names such as Francis King, Michael Arditti, Peter Millar and Edward Wilson; and The Deposition of Father McGreevy by Brian O’Doherty, published by Arcadia after having been turned down by Penguin, was shortlisted for the Booker prize in 2000.To some extent, Pulsifer’s selection inevitably reflected his own interests, yet he, too, was obliged to follow the money. This necessitated making best use of Arts Council funding which, from the turn of this century, focused on literary translation, and grants from mainly European cultural institutes. Pulsifer lamented that, without a private income – or a hedge-fund backer – by the 1990s it was almost impossible to establish a publishing house based on the quality of its output.He was not so endowed, coming from a family in no position to bankroll him. Born in Bath, Maine, he was the son of Donald Pulsifer, an electrician, and his wife, Carol (nee Smith). Gary went to school in Lisbon Falls, then studied literature and psychology at New England College in Henniker, New Hampshire. He spent time at the college’s campus in Arundel, West Sussex, graduated as a star student, and decided to stay in the UK. Pulsifer’s former long-term partner and publishing collaborator, Richard Bates, believes that he settled in London at least partly in response to the homophobia he experienced in provincial Maine.From 1975 onwards, Pulsifer freelanced as a journalist and publicist, then spent seven years from 1989 with the publishers Peter Owen before founding Arcadia. He loved social networking and attended festivals, conferences and author events all over the world, as well as umpteen literary lunches at embassies and cultural institutions in the UK and US. He was active on the boards of small publishers (Maia, Gay Men’s Press), charities (Book Trade Charity and English PEN), major institutions (London Arts literature panel, Arts Council translation advisory group) and the Independent Publishers’ Group. He won the IPG diversity award twice and was named Sunday Times small publisher of the year in 2006. He loved recounting how Arcadia was the model for the publishing house in Woody Allen’s 2010 film You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger.In 2009, Pulsifer fell ill. He recently told me: “When I was initially diagnosed with cancer, it became clear to me that there were problems lying in wait for the company.” In 2013 Arcadia went into receivership before being sold to MediaFund. Initially, Pulsifer was retained as publisher, and was bitter at being dismissed in 2014 when the cancer returned in more aggressive form. Throughout his illness, he lived at a property owned by the Book Trade Benevolent Society in Kings Langley, Hertfordshire, where he single-handedly transformed a large part of the extensive gardens.He is survived by his mother, and his brother, Jeffrey, and sister, Barbara.• Gary Pulsifer (Lyndon Gerry Pulsifer), publisher and writer, born 17 January 1957; died 25 March 2016