Picture the scene. After some mutual right-swiping on Tinder, you and the man/woman of your dreams have met for a drink and maybe more. Worryingly, the conversation has turned to literature – and you’ve barely opened a book since you left school. Do you come clean and hope your natural charm will make up for your ignorance?Of course you don’t. In a survey for the BBC, one in four of us admitted to lying about books we think we ought to have read – usually because we don’t want to be left out of the conversation or want to seem more intelligent. The other three-quarters probably lie too, but they can’t even tell the truth about that.It’s easier if you’ve seen a lot of TV adaptations. But if you haven’t? Don’t despair. Here’s all you need to bluff your way through some of the most lied-about novels, and some lines to turn the conversation in a more promising direction.War and Peace, by Leo Tolstoy       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Dano as Pierre Bezukhov, Lily James as Natasha Rostov and James Norton as Prince Andrei in the BBC’s 2015 adaptation. Photograph: Mitch Jenkins/BBC/Kaia ZakWhat happens: As Napoleon rampages across Europe, Russian aristocrats Pierre and Natasha fall for unsuitable suitors. It all ends happily, as the cheese-loving Frenchies get a pasting and our blueblooded heroes get together to oppress the serfs and raise a family.What to say: “It’s extremely long, you know. And so’s Tolstoy’s book.”Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alice and the Dodo, by John Tenniel. Photograph: UniversalImagesGroup/Getty ImagesWhat happens: Little girl falls down a rabbit hole, eats and drinks everything she sees and finds herself seesawing in size and chatting with caterpillars, cats, hares, dormice etc.What to say: “Either she’s on drugs, or there’s something special about the Victorian diet. Do you fancy a spot of Gentleman’s Relish?”1984, by George Orwell      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   1984 by George Orwell. Photograph: Martin Argles for the GuardianWhat happens: Low-ranking civil servant falls in love, takes on the all-seeing, all-powerful state – and loses both the girl and his hopes of a better world.What to say: “It’s Big Brother I feel sorry for. Who doesn’t dream of watching people in their bedrooms?”The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by Arthur Conan Doyle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benedict Cumberbatch as Sherlock Holmes and Martin Freeman as Dr Watson in the BBC’s 2015 adaptation. Photograph: Robert Viglasky/BBC/HartswoodWhat happens: Cocaine-loving misogynist fights crime with the help of a slightly dimwitted GP.What to say: “Is that the Beryl Coronet in your pocket, or are you just pleased to see me?”Crime and Punishment, by Fyodor Dostoevsky      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Simm as Raskolnikov in the BBC’s 2002 adaptation. Photograph: Stephen F Morley/BBC ONEWhat happens: We’re back in 19th-century Russia, as a St Petersburg student kills two women with an axe, wins the heart of a prostitute and hands himself in to the police.What to say: “Would you follow me to Siberia, like Sonya and Raskolnikov? No? How about the back of an Uber?”Pride and Prejudice, by Jane Austen      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth Bennet and Colin Firth as Mr Darcy in the BBC’s 1995 adaptation. Photograph: BBCWhat happens: Clever Elizabeth Bennet marries haughty Mr Darcy, but only after a lot of balls.What to say: “It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a good time.”Oliver Twist, by Charles Dickens      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Wild as the Artful Dodger, Ron Moody as Fagin and Mark Lester as Oliver Twist in the 1968 film. Photograph: Allstar Collection//CinetextUnloved and penniless, tragic Oliver goes through hell at the orphanage before running away, falling in with thieves and being rescued by a kindly old man.What to say, with a wink: “Please, sir [or madam], I want some more.”Fifty Shades trilogy, by EL JamesWhat happens: Sweet, virginal Anastasia Steele meets bondage-loving billionare Christian Grey. Before long he is introducing her to the delights of sado-masochism.What to say: “My subconscious is frantically fanning herself, and my inner goddess is swaying and writhing to some primal carnal rhythm… No, wait, come back! It’s just a quote!”The Lord of the Rings trilogy, by JRR Tolkien      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elijah Wood as Frodo Baggins in the 2003 film. Photograph: New Line/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarWhat happens: Decades after a hairy-footed creature known as the Hobbit discovered a magical ring, his heir must destroy it before it falls into the hands of an evil wizard. Cry havoc and let slip the Orcs of war!What to say, assuming you ever want to have sex again: “I have never, ever read any of those stupid books.”Harry Potter series, by JK Rowling      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rupert Grint (Ron Weasley), Alan Rickman (Severus Snape) & Daniel Radcliffe (Harry Potter) in ‘Harry Potter and the Goblet 0f Fire’ 2005. Photograph: Allstar/Warner BrosWhat happens: Boy wizard goes to boarding school and spends all his free time playing with his wand.What to say: See The Lord of the Rings.