“Be brave. Drop the diet. Make peace. If any book can effect long-term weight loss, it should be this one,” wrote Melanie Reid in the Times of Bee Wilson’s First Bite: How We Learn to Eat. This “intelligent and provocative book with new things to say about a huge subject” combines psychology, history, science and memoir to “feed the mind rather than denying the body”. We learn our food preferences young – if formula milk were spinach-flavoured, toddlers would be gobbling up their leafy veg – but adults also need educating out of our tendency to associate sweetness with comfort and love. “As we lose the habit of home-cooked family meals”, explained Daisy Goodwin in the Sunday Times, “our tastes and emotional attachments are formed around junk food. If Proust were writing today, the catalyst for his sensory reveries would most likely be a Crunchie bar.” “Wilson is a brilliant researcher,” said Rachel Cooke in the Observer, and “has unearthed science that makes sense of our most intimate and tender worlds”.Much-loved American novelist and former wrestler John Irving reentered the ring with his 14th novel Avenue of Mysteries, in which an ageing writer looks back over his journey from Mexican poverty to literary fame, via a cast of typically eccentric characters. “Judging by the American reviews, there are people out there who find this sort of thing wonderful and life-affirming,” wrote Theo Tait in the Sunday Times. But he found this “throwback to 1980s-style magical realism” to be “dreadful” and “doltish”, with a “tendency to witter on pathetically about breasts”. Hannah Beckerman in the Observer agreed that as a “meandering – and at times frustrating – blend of the real, the surreal and the miraculous”, the novel, featuring all the “familiar Irving preoccupations of sex, Catholicism, circuses, memory and Aids”, is an “exhausting endeavour”. John Sutherland in the Times was kinder, reminding us that Irving sees himself as a 19th-century novelist in the tradition of Dickens and “has, aged 73, embarked on his dark phase, as did Dickens. It will be interesting, if melancholy, to follow him down that gloomy avenue.”George Orwell once compared book reviewing to “‘kissing the bums of verminous little lions”. Novelist, biographer and indefatigable reviewer DJ Taylor has written an epic history of English literary life over the past 100 years, The Prose Factory; and one of its main pleasures, wrote John Preston in the Mail on Sunday, is “being reminded on almost every page of just how mean spirited and bitchy writers can be”. John Carey in the Sunday Times admired the “multiple human stories, constantly fascinating and sometimes tragic” with which Taylor illustrated his “practical questions” about literary reputation and earnings (or lack of them – Cyril Connolly, Angus Wilson and John Braine are among the many who died near-destitute). The book’s other great theme is literary taste and the role of the critic. Leo Robson in the New Statesman saw it as a “compendious yet rollicking” battle between populism and puritanism which sought to tell a story “about the triumph of the common reader and the humble reviewer over the elitist conspiracy known as ‘university English’”. It was hard, though, to identify the target audience: would it have an appeal beyond those “professionally enmired in the world of literature”? For Nicholas Shakespeare in the Daily Telegraph, Taylor was no populist but “a llama who eschews the herd, preferring to graze on remote, often inhospitable uplands, and reserving his spit for fellow critics such as James Wood and John Carey”. He agreed that the book was “ a valuable reminder of how hard it can be to make a living by writing” – a lesson all can appreciate.