Strictly Come Dancing 6.40pm, BBC1 It’s with a massive da-da-da-da-da-da-daaaah that the Strictly final comes to town. This Christmas staple won’t disappoint, with glitz, glamour and that coveted glitterball trophy. The standards are impeccable this year, and Hollyoaks star Danny “Dodger” Mac could spangle his way to victory. Of course, anything can happen, and the judges’ musings will pale into insignificance once the public start voting. Hannah Verdier Walt Disney 7.55pm, BBC2By the mid-1940s, Disney was buckling in the face of “a crippled company, a mountain of debt, and scorchings from the political press, art world and film critics”. The studio-rescuing Cinderella and theme parks were, at that point, still a dream away. This concluding episode explores Walt’s frequently grifting efforts to build on the pioneering Snow White. While it pulls some punches, this is a fairly even-handed profile of this most divisive of modern icons. Ali CatterallTree of the Year With Ardal O’Hanlon 8pm, Channel 4Worlds away from Father Dougal, O’Hanlon relieves the Home Nations of months of pent-up tension by – at last! – announcing the English, Welsh, Scottish and Northern Irish Trees Of The Year. The four fields are – perhaps inevitably – oak-heavy, although it is possible that the odd upstart chestnut or impudent beech could cause an upset. The winners will go forward to the prestigious European Tree of the Year contest. Andrew MuellerModus 9pm, BBC4A Scandi drama without brooding melancholy and annoying red herrings? It can be done. Modus might not have been clever, but it has certainly been consistent, ending tonight with a double bill of some of the well-handled, lowbrow thrillage that it’s dealt in thus far. Will profiler Inger and colleague Ingvar catch the killer before he commits more murders? Or will his creepy home invasions and rubbish American accent put a dampener on their blossoming affair? John RobinsonThe Funny Thing About Christmas10.30pm, Channel 5Some pretty good standups say some quite funny things about Christmas, in a talking-heads show that covers all the obvious topics, from shopping to sprouts. The stronger performers, such as Nish Kumar, Kerry Godliman and Tom Price, can dredge up a bit of tone or timing to make obvious observations worthy of a laugh, while in this low-impact environment, James Acaster’s deadpan fancy seems positively dangerous. Jack SealeTop Class: Christmas Special 10am, CBBCSusan Calman fronts a special Christmas edition of the kids’ general knowledge fact-em-up. Without the infectious personalities of the kids themselves, this runs the risk of being little more than a standard question-and-answer game. However, the presence of Dick and Dom, Blue Peter’s Lindsey Russell and Ricky Martin (sadly not that one) as contestants will ensure plenty of adequate foil. Merry quizmas! Luke HollandBowie, Prince & Music Legends We Lost in 2016 10pm, Sky ArtsIt’s time for the terrible toll of this discombobulating year to be taken. The worlds of sport, acting, comedy and politics have also suffered grievously, but in the interests of keeping things manageable, this tribute concentrates on music. Expect hefty Bowie, Prince and Cohen encomiums, but let’s not forget Sharon Jones or Phife Dawg, Leon Russell or Prince Buster. The year the music died? At times, 2016 has felt like it. Phil HarrisonFilm choice       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crime of fashion... Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson and Penelope Cruz foil a stylish criminal in the Zoolander sequel. Photograph: Philippe Antonello/APZoolander 2 (Ben Stiller, 2016) 12noon, Sky Cinema PremiereBen Stiller’s model Derek Zoolander sashays down the catwalk again. He and arch rival Hansel (Owen Wilson) return to New York after a long reclusive retreat to help Interpol agent Penélope Cruz foil master fashion criminal Mugatu (Will Ferrell). But more worryingly, the pair are now outdated, while Benedict Cumberbatch’s androgynous “All” rules the style roost. There’s a glittering parade of cameo fashionistas, but this is still an off-the-rack sequel to what was a custom-made original. Paul HowlettThe Lord Of The Rings: The Fellowship Of The Ring (Peter Jackson, 2001) 4.15pm, ITVChunk one of Jackson’s $300m screening of Tolkien’s epic fantasy (there’s plenty more over the holidays) opens with Elijah Wood’s hairy-footed Frodo Baggins and his band of elf, human, dwarf and wizard friends setting off to destroy the one ring. Something nasty – ringwraiths, cave trolls, ’orrible orcs – lurks round every corner, and it’s full of magic, menace and sentiment. PHComing To America (John Landis, 1988) 11pm, DaveLandis revisits the role-swap territory of Trading Places with a beaming performance from Eddie Murphy. He plays Prince Akeem of Zamunda, rebelling against King James Earl Jones’s plans for an arranged marriage by going incognito in New York with trusty manservant Arsenio Hall to find a bride who’s not only after his money. Shari Headley is the girl heading for love’s lottery jackpot. PHToday’s best live sportTest Cricket: India v England 6am, Sky Sports 2 Continuing coverage of the second day of the fifth TestPremier League Football: Crystal Palace v Chelsea 11.30am, Sky Sports 1 The Eagles host Antonio Conte’s Blues (Kick-off 12.30pm)European Rugby: Connacht v Wasps 5pm, Sky Sports 2 The matchday four Champions Cup Pool Two fixture (Kick-off 5.30pm)