‘You can tell we were all caught off guard by the speed with which it took off,” says ursine double-bassist Jon Thorne, “because we never got around to thinking of what to call our group. Yorkston/Thorne/Khan is no sort of a name, really.”When bands fall apart, they often blame musical differences. But for Yorkston/Thorne/Khan (more specifically, indie-folk’s James Yorkston, Lamb’s Jon Thorne and New Delhi’s top sarangi player Suhail Yusuf Khan) musical differences are what brought them together. An hour from now, the trio will pad on to the carpeted stage of Glasgow’s Tron theatre and revisit their semi-improvised new album, Everything Sacred, which has seen all three receive career-best reviews.Yorkston/Thorne/Khan review – freewheeling cross-cultural fun at Celtic Connections The ongoing tone of surprise is borne out by the spectacle that ensues: a version of The False True Love, a Scottish murder ballad popularised by Shirley Collins, takes flight when Khan puts down the bow of his sarangi and starts singing, transforming the song into a Sufi devotional. Assisted by Irish singer Lisa O’Neill, a modal reinvention of Ivor Cutler’s Little Black Buzzer (“my bum is cold, my face is white and this is my message to you”) hits a sweet spot between sublime and ridiculous. For all of that, some impracticalities do need to be overcome. Yorkston plays a Swedish nyckelharpa, which has16 strings, while Khan’s sarangi has 43. This means a certain amount of inter-song tuning breaks. Yorkston, who is from Fife, fills one with a recollection of a recent incident. “Suhail was round at my house,” he says, “and I was doing the dishes. I poured some boiling water and put my hand in without thinking. In shock I shouted, ‘Ya bandit!’ At which Suhail went to look in the garden. “What you doing?” I asked. “In Hindi,” he replied, “you just said, ‘There’s a monkey!’”The two met at Glasgow’s Celtic Connections festival two years ago. Khan’s telling of the encounter (he simply wandered into Yorkston’s dressing room, started playing and got an invite to join him on stage) reveals a lot about him – in particular, a sort of guileless curiosity that seems to occupy the space where one might expect to find ambition.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eight fingers, 43 strings … one Suhail Yusuf Khan. Photograph: Ross Gilmore/Redferns“I went to an international school where people listened to Led Zeppelin and Rage Against the Machine,” says Khan, 28, as he changes into an embroidered red silk shirt. “That was my first exposure to western music. There was a school band competition and one of the guitarists dropped out, so I just offered to fill in with my sarangi.”Khan’s involvement with the group Advaita initiated a ripple effect that would push out into mainstream Indian pop. “When we started, there was no concept of having an Indian classical musician in a band. No one had even worked out how to amplify a sarangi before. Now, there isn’t a band coming through in India that doesn’t have a classical musician in them.”Yorkston seized on the collaborative possibilities opened up by his encounter with Khan, in the process bringing into the fold Thorne, who has played on his last two solo records. Thorne’s own road-to-Damascus moment is, if anything, more dramatic, and a long way from the lifelong musical hothousing conferred upon Khan. He was 23 and living in Manchester when he heard David Sylvian’s The Ink in the Well. Suddenly he had to get his hands on a double bass. “Danny Thompson’s playing set me off. When I found out he was playing Manchester’s Band on the Wall, I turned up at four in the afternoon to see him soundcheck. I said to him, ‘I don’t think I can do this. Everyone else has had a 10-year head start and I don’t even know which way to hold the instrument.’ He just said, ‘If you’re moved by it, go engage with it.’” Every note Thorne played on Fear of Fours, Lamb’s second album, was dedicated to Danny.There’s an all-or-nothing intensity to 49-year-old Thorne. It’s somehow not surprising to learn that, 15 months ago, after “rupturing my achilles heel jumping around on stage with Lamb thinking I was 20 years younger”, Thorne decided to stop drinking altogether rather than simply cut down. His favourite book is Charles Mingus’s autobiography Beneath The Underdog, which he read in a single night. “Do you know what?” says Yorkston. “Sometimes it’s going to be shit. We all know that. But as you get older, your friends die and family members get sick. With that perspective, the idea that you tried something on stage and it didn’t quite work – that means nothing. Suhail, Jon and I all had friends who went on to play in big bands and took the buck, playing the same beat or bassline every night. Then we have other friends who are exceptional musicians and they just hang around at this level for the interesting stuff. And we all die. It’s just a question of, ‘Do we do the good stuff beforehand?’ If you agree on that, everything else fades into irrelevance.”Yorkston/Thorne/Khan play The Deaf Institute, Manchester, 24 February, then tour. Details: yorkstonthornekhan.com.