She crossed the line. Then, in a brief epiphany between two complete strangers, we hugged for a few seconds and both wept. Day upon day of mountain stages, several with nearly 4,000 metres of vertical ascent, this one with four major climbs, two of them first class category, can do strange things to a person.The effort, the altitude, the agonising achievement, it can all strip back the boundaries of your personality, lay bare emotions, inhibitions, expose the hurt, bring out the joy, and, like the stunning vistas of the French Pyrenees, bring everything into stark relief.Why take on what is perhaps the toughest amateur cycling sportif? Requiring months of training, the fully-supported Haute Route certainly forces you to shed a few pounds, and not merely weight, though each day I burned about 7,000 calories. “It’s just my mid-life crisis,” joked one 41-year-old British rider. Yet the challenge is certainly a way to sweat out the stresses of work or family life. We both agreed there’s very little in the UK to prepare you for relentless climbs up to 24km, sometimes hitting 12% or higher gradient, and there’s no time to hang around.   Out of the shadows … charity fundraiser and cancer survivor James Golding with spectactors on Haute Route Pyrenees. Photograph: Peter KimptonSome tackle the Haute Route for even bigger reasons. The tearful cyclist, Kirsten, was raising money for Marie Curie following her mother’s death. I lost my own father this year so it was all very poignant. One 49-year-old American rider, Werner Baron, had even booked his place from his hospital bed as a goal for getting better. Cancer survivor James Golding, meanwhile, was given a 5% chance to live by doctors in 2008 and his life has since become a mission of physical challenges to raise millions for cancer. This summer Golding did the daunting, three-week Triple Crown – not merely the week in the Pyrenees, but also the Alps and Dolomites. He is full of gallows humour, but in a more serious moment halfway up a long climb, Golding explained what cancer had done to him. “It’s a horrible thing but it’s made me a better bloke. I didn’t use to be a very nice person. But it has allowed me to do all these new things and completely change my life.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A rider with cow on the Col du Tourmalet. Photograph: ©Haute Route/Yoann ObrenovitchDoes Haute Route offer the experience something akin to a professional race? It really feels like a mini-Tour De France of mountain stages, with an additional mid-week time trial day up Plat D’Adet from Saint-Lary-Soulan. Like the Tour, the time limits are also strict and the standard high. On day one, I was 90 minutes within it, but by day three, I only just made it. I was trying out a new bike, the 13 Intuition Gamma. The design is understated, the frame is light, flexible and stylish, and the brakes are in unusual low-profile positions behind the fork and down below the chainstays.Even though I was surrounded by far pricier models, the Gamma didn’t feel out of place. This bike is certainly built for speed. I did find just one minor disadvantage with cross-winds – a sudden gust felt like it could catch those deep rims like a sail, so I had to be prepared for this, though I never quite felt like I would tip over.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   King of the mountains … for a moment. Peter with giant monuments to cycling at the top of Col d’Aubisque in the French Pyrenees. Photograph: Callum RobertsonThe cycling is only part of the challenge. Travelling between stages, locating your hotel (a basic or two-star package is offered), trying to book a massage, attending a mandatory briefing about the next day’s stage, rising at 6am to eat as much as your body will take – all catches up on the body. In one case, it was necessary to cycle as much as 13km even before a 7.30am start. The early alarm reminds you Haute Route is not a holiday, but a test of discipline and endurance. It is not unusual to find yourself getting homesick, but by the end, also wanting to hold on to the cameraderie that has kept you going.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Haute Route Pyrenees - many challenges await youThe Pyrenees is spectacular, full of famous climbs with a beautiful, rustic setting, less rocky and tough than the Dolomites, not as chocolate box as the Swiss Alps. A sunny Col d’Aubisque and Col du Soulor were particularly glorious. Yet the Pyrenees can hit you with steep sections on rougher roads, such as La Pierre Saint-Martin or Superbagnères. I coped by changing from a full-size to compact chainring and to a 11-28 cassette but sometimes wished I’d gone for a 30 or 32 as had many others. The Tourmalet? Most agreed it was long and gruelling, but not as steep.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beware of the Pyrenean sheepdog. Beautiful, but fiercely protective of its flock … Photograph: ©Haute Route/Yoann ObrenovitchAnimal magicWhen suffering up a long climb and feeling a little sorry for yourself, the sight of horses, goats, sheep or cows can be strangely comforting. The Pyrenees offers plenty of this but sometimes it brings more. I was chased by a sheepdog, who narrowly missing snapping at my shoes, but one French rider, Philippe, reported how a large white Pyrenean hound nipped his backside as he passed a fiercely protected flock. Golding got a wasp stuck in his jersey on the final day, and collision with cattle on descents is rare but not unknown. Two riders reported excitable horses dashing alongside them in a field for several kilometres and then offered them some fresh manure across the road. I was briefly cornered by a couple of curious donkeys in a remote village road. One kicked out at me, but thankfully missed. And there was me worrying I’d make as ass of myself over the cycling.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Descending past horses on the Haute Route Pyrenees day two. Photograph: ©Haute Route/Yoann ObrenovitchCrashing can be a hazard on race events. I clipped a roundabout on the first day to leave minor knee and hip cuts and grazes to add to a bad knee gash four weeks earlier in the UK. But I was lucky. One Canadian misjudged a steep corner and had to be flown home on the first day. Yet Haute Route excels on route guidance and safety, with frequent signposting, vigilant marshals at every junction, and all routes timed, bar a couple of dangerous descent sections.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter salutes other riders on the iconic Col du Tourmalet. Photograph: Peter KimptonIf there are any criticisms, they are outside of the cycling itself. The post-ride meal can be a bit too pasta-based, basic and repetitive, which was surprising in the land of haute cuisine. Distances to hotels can be tiring, and the ride briefings a bit overstuffed with local mayoral speeches. Otherwise it is a stunning, challenging experience very much like a professional race, with a high, international standard, including a very fast Kenyan team who got a popular stage win.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Haute Route Pyrenees Kenyan riders team. Photograph: ©Haute Route/Yoann ObrenovitchI was not held up by animals or mechanical problems but by my body, which succumbed to a mid-week vomiting bug that eventually robbed me of an official time even though I recovered later in the week. Cycling on an empty stomach is no laughing matter.I only made it up Hautacam within time on the third day thanks to Haute Route’s very own Lanterne Rouge, Fergus Grant, a very able cyclist employed to help stragglers over the line. Dressed all in red, his role is a cross between court jester and motivator, a popular extrovert who entertains you through the pain with terrible jokes that work in both French and English.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The ever upbeat Fergus Grant, aka Haute Route’s Lanterne Rouge, celebrates at the finish on the last day of the Pyrenees ride. Photograph: ©Haute Route/Yoann ObrenovitchWith more generous cut-off times, but no less of an endurance test with a greater mileage, I tried the same bike on UK terrain – the rolling hills of Cornwall, Devon, Somerset and Wales from Land’s End up to Ludlow. Doing 324 miles, I joined the first three days of the charity-based Ride Across Britain event. I’d done the full RAB route in 2013 and was also delighted to find the event again very friendly and superbly organised and supported. Overall I’ve never enjoyed cycling this much, not merely with the 13 model, but in overcoming all kinds of mental and physical challenges. Yet whatever your reasons to ride, for charity or just a personal adventure, whatever bike, and whatever incredible cols of Haute Route or the UK, it’s still all about you, the rider, and what you’ll discover about yourself.Places are now open for any of 2016’s Haute Route events13 Intuition Gamma bikes are available from Halfords