The beloved Canadian band the Tragically Hip have played what is believed to be their last concert, which got under way with flag-waving fans breaking into an impromptu rendition of the national anthem, O Canada.It seemed a fitting beginning to what was likely to be the final performance of a group known as “Canada’s Band”, the lead singer of which has been described as the country’s unofficial poet laureate.The Tragically Hip, more commonly referred to as the Hip, announced in May that Gord Downie, the band’s frontman and one of Canada’s biggest rock stars, had incurable brain cancer.The Saturday night show was held at the Rogers K-Rock Centre in Kingston, Ontario, where the Hip started out more than three decades ago. Tickets had sold out within minutes.The gig was broadcast on Canadian television and public screenings were held around the country, as well as at Canada’s Olympic house facility in Rio.Among those at the show was the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, who previously said Downie “has been writing Canada’s soundtrack for more than 30 years”. The prime minister’s official photographer tweeted a photo of Trudeau, 44, and Downie, 52, embracing before the show.Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau)Thank you, Gord. #courage pic.twitter.com/kpLKVzfY63August 21, 2016The bluesy rock band were careful not to declare that the concert, which brought to a conclusion the 15-date Man Machine Poem tour, would be their last, but the series of performances had an air of solemnity and celebration.Downie received a diagnosis of glioblastoma, an aggressive brain tumour, in December and has undergone surgery, as well as chemotherapy and radiation therapy. His doctor James Perry said Downie had responded well to treatment, but the tumour was impossible to completely remove from his brain.When the Hip announced the tour in May after the diagnosis became public, they said: “This feels like the right thing to do now, for Gord, and for all of us … So we’re going to dig deep and try to make this our best tour yet.”The band was formed at a high school in Ontario in 1984. They swiftly became a fixture on the Canadian music scene, releasing 13 studio albums, nine of which reached number one in Canada, and winning 14 Juno awards. The Hip were inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 2005.Downie’s lyrics are peppered with references to Canada’s history and geography, from the explorer Jacques Cartier to the Toronto Maple Leafs ice hockey team. “You write about what you know,” the father of four said in a 2012 CBC interview. “And I love this country. I love my idea of this country.”Being so defiantly Canadian may be one reason why they struggled to gain traction in the US, outside border cities such as Buffalo, where viewing parties were also held. None of the band’s albums have made it into the US top 100.Trudeau, who has said he enjoyed the Hip’s music during his high school and university years, tweeted his thanks.Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau)On behalf of Canadians, I thank Gord Downie and the Hip for their decades of service to Canadian music. Forever in our hearts and playlists.August 21, 2016Downie acknowledged the prime minister from the stage, referencing his work with indigenous First Nations people and saying he expected Trudeau to be in power for a long time.“He’s going to be looking good for about at least 12 more years. I don’t know if they let you go beyond that. But he’ll do it,” Downie told concertgoers. Trudeau could be seen in the audience, nodding and mouthing “thank you”.Downie wore a metallic silver suit and hat with a Jaws T-shirt underneath, and began the show by hugging and kissing his bandmates: guitarists Rob Baker and Paul Langlois, bassist Gord Sinclair and drummer Johnny Fay.An energetic Downie and his bandmates played a 30-song set loaded with hits and punctuated by three encores. They opened with four songs from their 1992 breakthrough album Fully Completely: 50 Mission Cap, Courage, Wheat Kings and At the Hundredth Meridian.The Hip then segued into songs from their most recent album, Man Machine Poem, before running through tracks from Music @ Work, Road Apples, Phantom Power, Up to Here, Day for Night and Trouble at the Henhouse.The band’s biggest hit, Ahead by a Century, finally closed the show.Downie gestured as if he were sketching a portrait of the teary audience as the Hip played the song’s final notes. The band members then embraced, stood arm in arm as the crowd roared, and walked off stage.Before performing one song, Downie seemed to reference the outpouring of support from fans since his diagnosis. “Thank you, people, for keeping me pushing and keeping me pushing,” he said, which prompted a “Gordie” chant from the audience.After the show ended, the Toronto-based broadcaster and writer Alan Cross tweeted to say it would be remembered for a long time.Alan Cross (@alancross)We will talk about this show in hushed tones for years to come.#TragicallyHipAugust 21, 2016