Are any of us truly comfortable with sex? I don’t think so.As a symptom of our discomfort, we might try to laugh it off or dismiss it, or make hasty judgments about sexual practices that threaten us or excite us or that we simply don’t understand. Today in the west there seems to be more sexual freedom than ever before but therapists and educators in the field do not cease to tell us that, when it comes to sex, many still experience a great deal of shame, guilt, uncertainty and suffering.For the past several years, I have produced a large annual festival in Sydney that explores different aspects and variations of sex. It normally lasts three or four days. There are experiential workshops, which allow people to discover things they haven’t tried before, as well as talks, performances and a party, where people have the opportunity to practise some of what they have learned. It is not the only festival of its kind in Australia or worldwide but it does make a claim to approach the subject more inclusively, and in a more challenging and informed way than is on offer elsewhere. The science of what excites kinky people doesn't end with armchair psychology | Nichi Hodgson One of the purposes of this kind of festival is to provide a space where people feel safe to discuss and explore fantasies and practices that they would normally keep private. Usually this helps them to feel more comfortable about who they are and what they like to do; it also offers opportunities for others to expand their knowledge and experience. The festival is also a social invention, to the extent that it gives people permission to interact in ways we normally do not allow in our culture. People from often very diverse social groups have the opportunity to encounter one another close up: young and old, straight and queer, poor and affluent, fat and thin, people who are disabled and those who aren’t, singles, couples, people who live in different kinds of non-traditional relationships as well as those who are interested in alternative sexual practices such as “kink” or BDSM. It’s really quite special.But, as you might expect, from time to time we collide with the fears and prejudices of the so-called mainstream culture. These collisions generally do not occur as part of the festival itself but usually happen at the moment when we seek recognition for our work from the wider community. Following the first festival I produced in 2011, for example, the ABC program Hungry Beast did a short segment based on one of my workshops on plush animals. My undergraduate students at the university where I was working at the time complained to the course coordinator. Young adults barely out of high school, they couldn’t reconcile my role as their teacher – whose job was to help them to learn to think and write analytically – with what they learned about me on television. What they saw was beyond what they could make sense of and it unjustly undermined my authority in their eyes. When it comes to sex, many still experience a great deal of shame, guilt, uncertainty and suffering About such collisions that occur when the private meets the public, I guess I am in two minds. On the one hand, I think that consenting adults very much need a protected space where they can feel free to open up and explore sexuality, sheltered from the often hasty and ill-conceived judgments of the wider community.On the other hand, however, I also believe that it’s only by challenging these judgments that our culture as a whole has any chance of becoming more mature and free.Let’s take, for example, the erotic practices usually gathered under the title of BDSM (bondage and discipline, dominance and submission, sadism and masochism). The Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras opened on 19 February. It celebrates 38 years of people from LGBT communities who have been fighting tooth and nail for the recognition of their rights. It is an excellent time to recall that today those who practise consensual BDSM – both straight and gay – still very often feel they have to hide their names and faces to protect themselves from the stigma that it carries, for fear they might lose their jobs or harm their families.The wider community in Australia and elsewhere is unwilling to accept that a person entrusted with authority and responsibility can also be someone who responsibly practises BDSM. This forces many people into the painful condition of leading a double life. Fetish lovers begging for freedom: 'Fifty Shades of Grey is our Stonewall moment' A great deal more work needs to be done to counter this stigma; to show that even while some of the practices associated with BDSM (erotic tying, impact play, piercing and the eroticisation of power) may be confronting to some, they need not be undertaken in a way that is abusive, irresponsible or dangerous. As many people I know will attest, these practices can be joyous expressions of sexual desire and even love.It goes without saying that sex is never just sex. It is also culture, politics and so many other things. Tantra teachers call it “life force energy”, recalling that sex gives life and the feeling of being alive, including (yet going well beyond) the making of babies. I would say that sex has an exemplary power to open our minds, forcing us to question our values and what we take to be self-evident about ourselves and our society. This includes what we generally believe to be our sexual orientation and gender, as well as what one consenting adult has the right to do to another and/or pay for. For a philosopher, the question of what sex actually is remains open. And yet, a life without sex, without desire or the erotic frisson – is that a life? A life worth living? I’m not sure. • The Sydney Festival of Really Good Sex takes place on 26-29 January 2017