What’s the name of this show? The CatchWhen does it premiere? Thursday 24 March at 10pm EST on ABC.Thursday night on ABC, it must be a Shonda Rhimes show. You are correct. But just like How to Get Away with Murder, which this show is replacing, it is only produced by Rhimes. British novelist Kate Atkinson (Life After Life) created it and Jennifer Schuur served as showrunner before she departed over creative differences. Scandal and Grey’s Anatomy alum Allan Heinberg took over.So, it’s a Shonda Rhimes show. Let me guess, there is a powerful woman with a great career and an even greater wardrobe leading a diverse team of professionals while also trying to figure out the mysteries of love? That’s right. Would you want it any other way?No. How is this one different? The catch centers on Alice Vaughan (The Killing’s Mireille Enos), a partner in a high-end Los Angeles private investigation firm. She and her team are on the trail of Mr X, who keeps robbing sensitive materials from their top clients. It turns out Mr X is her fiance Christopher (Peter Krause), who is actually con man Ben Jones and who steals $1.4m from her, all the funds from her clients, and leaves town without leaving a trace of evidence behind. Now she is intent on tracking him down and making him pay.Damn, and I thought Scandal was crazy. Yes, the premise is nuts, but it exists in this heightened universe where a bunch of badass ladies run a million-dollar private investigation firm, so you just sort of accept them as facts and move on.Is it any good? It’s a change of pace for the Shondaland crew. If Grey’s is their sappy medical show, Scandal their sincere political show, and How to Get Away with Murder their noir lawyer show, then The Catch is their fizzy take on the PI genre, harking back to 80s hits like Moonlighting and Remington Steele. While all the Rhimes hallmarks are there – lightning-fast pacing, plenty of sex, a leather trench coat that will send you immediately to Net-a-Porter – it’s both brighter and slicker than most of her other shows.The Catch plays out less like Dynasty and more like Oceans Eleven, where there is a cross and a double cross around every corner and someone is always carrying out a long con that you didn’t even see coming until Scooby-Doo and the gang rip the proverbial mask off the proverbial monster. Alice and her crew exist in a world of black-tie fundraisers where she can bust crooks in a red dress that will sell out faster than one of Kate Middleton’s skirts. It’s like Jane Bond, except she is so pissed off at the romantic interest that betrayed her that she’s not just going to kill him, she’s going to torture him. Or is he going to torture her? Or both?It might not be good, but it sure is fun and it travels at such a clip with buoyant music, sophisticated use of split screens and slow motion, and a well-rounded cast of beautiful people that you just won’t care.If they are private investigators are there cases? It’s unclear. ABC only made the pilot available to reviewers and the case in that episode is about Alice trying to track down Ben. I assume that there will be a case-of-the-week structure like on Rhimes’s other shows, but right now that’s just conjecture. I hope that is true, because I think dragging out Alice and Ben’s cat-and-mouse game over countless seasons will jump a Sea World exhibit worth of sharks very quickly.How is the cast? Enos does seem a little miscast at times, but I think when she’s given a bit more emotion to play with, she’ll do an excellent job. Krause is charming and handsome in a role that only really requires that of him. Character development takes a backseat to plot machinations in the first episode. We barely get to meet Alice’s partner Valerie (Rose Rollins), their associate Danny (Jay Hayden), and wunderkind Sophie (Elvy Yost). Ben has a few allies of own, notably his other lover Margot (Sonya Walger), who is totally the Mellie of this show and I already love her.Should I watch this show? If your DVR is already recording all of Rhimes’s TGIT block, then you’re surely going to love this. For others, it is a fun, fast-paced show that seems well on its way to being different enough to differentiate itself from the TV pack but familiar enough to give you that warm feeling inside, like a good glass of white wine. Time will tell if the concept has enough meat on its bones for longevity, but it seems like Shonda Rhimes could have another hit on her hands. 