Born in Newcastle, Andrea Riseborough, 34, studied at Rada. She was Bafta-nominated for her 2008 portrayal of Margaret Thatcher in the BBC’s The Long Walk To Finchley. Her movies include Made In Dagenham, Shadow Dancer, Oblivion, with Tom Cruise, and Birdman; she also appears in Bloodline on Netflix. Her most recent TV drama, National Treasure, is out on DVD; at Christmas, she will appear opposite Toby Jones in a two-part BBC adaptation of Agatha Christie’s The Witness For The Prosecution. She lives in Los Angeles.What is your greatest fear? Dying alone.Which living person do you most admire? Patti Smith.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? I tend to be overly responsible for other people’s feelings.What was your most embarrassing moment? Wetting myself in front of the class when I was four.Aside from a property, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? I have quite a collection of ironic band T shirts.What is your most treasured possession? A letter that my dad wrote me when I was younger, because I got to see how much he loved me.What is your screensaver? An image of a woman climaxing.Who would play you in the film of your life? Su Pollard.What is your favourite smell?The smell of fake orange they pump into the Horizons ride at Disney World, Florida.What is your favourite word? Shrewsbury.Which book changed your life? Tracey Emin’s Strangeland made me see that everything I have to be creative is inside of myself.What or who is the greatest love of your life?My sister, Laura.What does love feel like? Right now, terrifying.What was the best kiss of your life? It may have been this morning.What do you owe your parents? At the minute, £44.50.What did you want to be when you were growing up? First a binman, then a barmaid; then something to do with Nasa; then a Disney animator; then a dancer or a musician. I ended up being an actor, because I could be all those things.Bryan Cranston: ‘Who would play me in the film of my life? Mr Bean’ To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why? Helen Edmundson, because I wasn’t able to be a better friend at school.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Howard Zinn, Joan Didion, Lou Reed.Which words or phrases do you most overuse? Like. In LA and Newcastle, you can’t avoid it.What is the worst job you’ve done? Either shredding duck in a Chinese restaurant, or Oblivion.What has been your biggest disappointment? It used to be myself, but I am over that now.If you could go back in time, where would you go? Montparnasse when Hemingway and all those other peeps were hanging out.How often do you have sex? Recently, quite a lot.What single thing would improve the quality of your life?Just an instinct, but I think reading more Mark Twain.What do you consider your greatest achievement? Being friends with all of the people I grew up with.