Tristram Hunt’s resignation letter reads like the kind of fantasy epistle people dream of sending the boss on a Friday morning after another awful week at the office. He doesn’t have to strain himself to sound like he’s got a new life planned out, starting with a journey to find himself in Anglesey. Instead he calmly explains he has just been appointed director of the V&A. So farewell Jeremy, as he has no need to say. Nor does he have to boast about the salary and sneer “cap that”. For the message is clear enough that he is leaving Corbyn’s ghost train for a glamorous top job at one of the best museums in the world. He’ll be musing over which William Morris wallpaper to choose for his office while former comrades are reading their latest batch of Twitter abuse and awaiting the reselection meeting. Nice for him.  The question is – what does the V&A get in return? In recent years it has had a spectacular run of hit exhibitions that unashamedly celebrated fashion and pop, subjects not usually associated with Hunt, who probably knows more about the Levellers in the English civil war (the theme of a 2002 BBC series that made his name) than he does about Alexander McQueen. He was not, apparently, one of the millions who tweeted their sorrow when David Bowie, hero of a hugely popular V&A exhibition, died. Is Hunt going to drag the V&A back into the 19th century? Great exhibitions: 2017's best art, photography, architecture and design  That seems a very real possibility. Hunt is a historian of the Victorian age. He did a PhD at Cambridge on civic thought in Britain, 1820–1860, which he later turned into a mainstream book called Building Jerusalem. As the industrial revolution created cities of mass poverty and grotesque inequality unlike any ever seen, he argues in this book, Victorians used the arts and education to try to create cohesive communities, with intellectuals such as John Ruskin and William Morris preaching bold visions of a world saved by art.  The most spectacular surviving result of the Victorian aesthetic idealism Hunt so admires is the Victoria and Albert Museum, founded in 1852 with a revolutionary mission to collect not just the traditional arts but craft and industrial design too. You can see why Hunt, one of today’s most enthusiastic champions of the energy of the Victorian age, is in heaven here. And in appointing him the V&A is returning very explicitly to its own roots. Does this reflect a desire by its trustees to make a break with Hunt’s predecessor Martin Roth? Do they want to rein back the popular culture?  I could easily handle a few more exhibitions about Ruskin’s theory of architecture and a few less about Pink Floyd. I had to apologise to Guardian readers who came to a Masterclass event at the V&A recently because psychedelic music was being played loudly right next to the Renaissance galleries, making it hard for us to analyse the art. In their desperation to get a big Botticelli exhibition on last year, the museum’s curators of proper art had to load it with Dolce & Gabbana dresses and Warhols. So if Hunt brings a more sombre tone to this great museum and gives its unrivalled collections of European and global art the attention stolen from them by Kylie, then good. V&A's choice of Tristram Hunt seems less risky after a look at his CV  Hunt is easily the most high-profile leader the V&A has had since Sir Roy Strong left in 1987. Strong was and is a flamboyant public character but since then this museum’s directors have tended to vanish within the vastness of its infinite halls and corridors. Hunt is not much like the dandy Strong but bears more resemblance to the serious and idealistic Neil MacGregor, who until recently led the British Museum. Is it too much to hope that Hunt can emulate MacGregor and put big ideas about art and history into British public life?  If he gives the V&A a strong public voice, that will be good for all Britain’s museums. This appointment comes as some of the most influential museum directors in British history leave that stage. Sir Nicholas Serota’s departure this year after those of MacGregor and the National Portrait Gallery’s Sandy Nairne risk leaving our museums in the hands of cultural bureaucrats, educated and trained in the museum world, with nothing much to say beyond it. How imaginative of the V&A to bring in an outsider who manifestly cares about its collections – Hunt helped save the great Enlightenment creations of Josiah Wedgwood for the nation – yet also obviously cares about the world outside those abundant galleries.  In his resignation letter Hunt says he “will work impartially as a museum director”. Let’s hope not. If he lets rip with passionate ideas and grand ambitions this could be a second great Victorian age for the V&A.