1. Ragnar KjartanssonBarbican, LondonEvery five years, on camera, Ragnar Kjartansson’s actress mother, Guðrún Ásmundsdóttir, spits on her son’s face. He stands beside her, a dutiful but errant son in a dapper suit, and takes it. Sometimes alarming, always surprising, and weirdly joyful, the Icelandic artist’s Barbican exhibition captivated audiences, many of whom returned again and again to a show that was itself full of repetition. On screen, American band the National (recorded live in New York) sang their song Sorrow for six hours straight. In The Visitors, the artist and his friends, all miked-up and occupying different rooms of a dilapidated Hudson Valley mansion, performed another song, with lyrics provided by the artist’s ex-wife, over and over, in a cumulative, plangent performance that tugged at the heart.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Songs and sadness … visitors are serenaded at Ragnar Kjartansson’s Barbican exhibition. Photograph: Tristan Fewings/GettyFilling one part of his show with a group of live troubadours, who lounged about, drank beer and sang an accompaniment to a 1970s Icelandic soft-porn movie starring Kjartansson’s parents (the story goes that he was conceived during their onscreen antics), the exhibition was full of twists and turns, paintings and portraits, song and sadness.Having seen Kjartansson’s work in Venice and New York, in Penarth and in London, he always makes me want to go back and see it all again. I never tire of The Visitors, with its constant refrain: “And so, once more, I fall into my feminine ways.” Embracing high aspirations and low comedy, Ragnar’s work is glorious, life-affirming, funny and utterly disarming. He even had two young women floating about the Barbican pond in a rowing boat, kissing through the afternoon, both pretending to be Helena Bonham Carter. Whatever he does, Ragnar is always a performer, at once crooner, impresario, stage compère, film director, painter. It is all one to him, the act of being an artist. He is an artist for our times and what times they are. 2. Robert RauschenbergTate Modern, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stunning … the stuffed goat with tyre at the Tate. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianIf anyone ever doubted Rauschenberg, or would collapse him into an enfant terrible who once erased a Willem de Kooning drawing and stuck a tyre round the belly of a stuffed goat, this stunning, hugely enjoyable exhibition shows a prolific artist constantly refreshing his art and rethinking his game. With a great touch and feel for materials, Rauschenberg was as inventive as he was acute, turning much of what came after him into footnotes. Read a review3. Inside: Artists and Writers in Reading Prison      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Painful … Oscar Wilde’s cell door, in the Reading prison Chapel. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/GettyThe ghosts of Oscar Wilde and other wasted, banged-up lives stalk the landings and cells of Reading prison in this sombre and painful exploration of life in cement. Physical confinement and mental flight are the themes of this great Artangel project. Jean Genet’s prison fantasies, Vija Celmins’s drawings of the night sky, Marlene Dumas’s paintings of Wilde and Bosie and, at the show’s heart, weekly live readings of Wilde’s De Profundis by the likes of Patti Smith, Maxine Peake and Neil Bartlett. Haunting and unforgettable. Read a review4. William Eggleston PortraitsNational Portrait Gallery, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fascinating insights … Eggleston’s portrait of Devoe Money in Jackson, Mississippi. Photograph: ©Eggleston Artistic TrustAn anonymous, pimply kid in the sunshine; the photographer’s mother and the family housekeeper; an eccentric dentist, murderer and pyromaniac … William Eggleston Portraits took us from dark-room experiments to Memphis juke-joints and funerals, where he has been, where he has stayed, and most of all, who he has photographed. A fascinating insight into what makes him tick, this show was a wonder, fleshing out Eggleston’s world, and the utter dedication he has bought to photography. Read a review5. Maria Eichhorn, 5 weeks, 25 days, 175 hoursChisenhale Gallery, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘What a great no-show’ … Maria Eichhorn’s 5 weeks, 25 days, 175 hours. Photograph: Andy KeateThe German artist closed the gallery and sent all Chisenhale’s staff on a break for the duration of her exhibition, and expected them not to work. Neither strike nor protest, Eichhorn asked what the value of time was, how we use it, how we spend it. Galleries are human places as much as spaces for objects to be displayed. Eichhorn made us think about labour, and what happens when it is withdrawn. What a great no-show this was. 6. Philippe Parreno, AnywhenTate Modern, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oddly addictive … Anywhen at Tate Modern. Photograph: Kirsty Wigglesworth/APParreno has turned the Turbine Hall into a kind of musical instrument, electrifying the space with sound and lights, films and invisible football matches, the sound of the river piped in from outside. Often, nothing happens, till the noise of a passing aircraft roars through the building, or the noise of rain drums through the space. Screens rise and fall from the roof, and a ventriloquist speaks to a squid in a tank. Anywhen is astonishing and oddly addictive. I keep going back. Read a review7. The Infinite MixThe Store, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rachel Rose, Everything and More at The Infinite Mix. Photograph: Linda NylindDancing trees and syncopated fireworks, simulated sex with the furniture and a holographic Maria Callas in a phantom auditorium – those were some of the highlights of this lively exploration of how certain artists have used film, music and the moving image. Topped by Ugo Rondinone’s film installation of poet John Giorno, recorded in utterly brilliant performance, the Infinite Mix was full of energy and life. Beautifully installed in an empty office block, and produced by the Hayward with none of the strain usually associated with their group shows. Read a review8. Hepworth prize for sculptureHepworth Wakefield, Yorkshire      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Split winnings … Helen Marten. Photograph: Anthony Devlin/PAWon by the terrific Helen Marten, who split the winnings with her fellow contenders, the Hepworth sculpture prize exhibition (ends 19 February) ranges from Phyllida Barlow’s rough-and-tumble slanted stage, with its cavernous undercroft, to David Medalla’s delicate foam fountains, from Steven Claydon’s mobile phone masts disguised as trees and rafts of fabricated tribal artifacts, to Marten’s complex syntax games with objects and images. Prize exhibitions often look a bit random. This has energy and vitality, vigour as well as rigour. 9. Monuments Should Not Be TrustedNottingham Contemporary      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adventure … Sanja Iveković, Personal Cuts, 1982. Photograph: Sanja Iveković/Espaivisor GalleryThis biting exploration of art during the communist years of the former Yugoslavia was fascinatingly chaotic, catching the flavour, contradictions and conflicts of art under Tito’s communism. The exhibition resurrected forgotten experimental film-makers and hilarious period pieces by artists who found themselves local heroes on the fringes of official culture, set beside monstrous and monumental brutalist ashtrays and other factory gifts to Tito. This was in-depth curating with a sense of adventure and fun. 10. Hilma af Klint: Painting the UnseenSerpentine Gallery, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Far-sighted pioneer … Klint’s Evolutionen, 1908 Photograph: Albin Dahlström/Courtesy of Stiftelsen Hilma af Klints VerkThere may be as much wish fulfilment in the idea that Swedish artist Hilma af Klint was a far-sighted pioneer of modernism as there is in the idea that her paintings reveal unseen spirit worlds. Her beautiful work remains a revelation nonetheless. Drawing on the same spiritualist beliefs as Kandinsky and Mondrian, she stipulated that her work was not to be shown till 30 years after her death in 1944. We get it now, but much about her remains a mystery, still to be unravelled. Read a review• More on the best culture of 2016