Christine review: Rebecca Hall astonishes in real-life horror story Much like Pablo Larraín’s Jackie, another movie based on a true story, Antonio Campos’s Christine ends with a gunshot to the head, and each is grounded by a superb performance in the title role. Indeed, Christine may be the first movie to give Rebecca Hall enough room to show everything she can do.Hall plays Christine Chubbuck, a 29-year-old local news reporter in Sarasota, Florida, who shot herself in the head while anchoring a live news broadcast in 1974 (the footage has never been seen since). Ever keen to move to a bigger TV market, she certainly made the primetime network news that night. That’s not really a spoiler: like JFK, the most famous thing about Chubbuck is how she died. But Campos and screenwriter Craig Shilowich are more interested in why, and in Chubbuck herself. If they don’t quite unwrap the whole enigma, well here, to quote a 70s maxim, the journey is the destination.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rebecca Hall on starring in Christine: 'It’s about her life – not her death' Chubbuck’s sad exit is said to have partly inspired Paddy Chayefsky during the writing of his screenplay for the 1976 film Network, famous for its own deeply troubled anchor. She certainly hates many of the same things as Howard Beale, especially the sensation-driven “If it bleeds, it leads” mentality then emerging in TV news. But she was also afflicted by serious depression in a time when that ailment was largely misunderstood or misdiagnosed, or was simply put down to, as her mother keeps phrasing it, “your moods”.And with the whole sexual smorgasbord of a 1970s Florida, beach town at hand, Christine is still a virgin, desperate to make a move on lead anchor George (Michael C Hall, subtle and generous as always).Movies about depression, funnily enough, tend to be depressing. This one isn’t. Rebecca Hall draws a richly detailed portrait of Chubbuck, and isn’t afraid to make her unlikable. She’s kind of a hard-ass, intimidating and hard to reach, so it’s a miracle, and a credit to Hall, that we find ourselves on her side so soon.Chubbuck’s story is also well situated both in her times and in her era of TV news. Campos has opted for a dour, beige, analogue 1970s: shoddy clothes, bad hair – the un-Boogie Nights. On TV, the escalating crime rates, post-Vietnam malaise and drip-drip of Watergate suggest the world is in flames, and real news is always elsewhere, far from Christine’s world of strawberry festivals and four-car pileups. If we don’t come away with a complete explanation of what drove Chubbuck to her tragic personal apocalypse, thanks to Hall’s expertise and control, we do at least feel like we know and understand her.Christine is out in cinemas from Friday 27 January