The premiere of the second season of Better Call Saul is bookended with two amazing scenes featuring our protagonist Jimmy McGill (Bob Odenkirk), the once and future shady lawyer Saul Goodman. At the beginning it’s the present and he’s taking out the trash as the manager of a Cinnabon in a bland mall in an unnamed city. When he locks himself in the dumpster room, he refuses to use the emergency exit because the alarm will call the cops and he doesn’t want any trouble. At the end of the hour, which airs in the US on AMC on Monday 15 February at 10pm EST and in the UK on Netflix on Tuesday 16 February, it’s back in the past in New Mexico and Jimmy is in his new office at posh law firm where he’s just taken a job as an associate. He finds a light switch labelled: “Never turn this switch off.” He can’t help him and flicks it anyway, waiting to see if there are any disastrous consequences. There are not. Better Call Saul’s Bob Odenkirk: ‘Trump is hilarious. Until he wins' These two scenes capture the appeal of the show’s second season perfectly. If Breaking Bad, its parent show, was about watching a good man learning how to become a criminal, Better Call Saul is about a criminal who is learning how to be good. The problem is we know that Walter White is eventually successful and we know that Jimmy McGill/Saul Goodman inevitably fails. We wonder if Walter will ever find salvation but, in the inverse situation, we wonder why salvation isn’t good enough for Jimmy. It’s salvation he’s getting in this second season. After breaking from his mentally unstable brother Chuck (Michael McKean), who never wanted Jimmy to succeed, he’s given up the lawyering life and is pulling petty cons while floating in a lazy river at a New Mexico resort, with his drink in his floatation device, his snacks on a raft by his side, and his cellphone floating in a plastic bag. He’s given up on honesty altogether because, as he reminds us repeatedly, he has never once benefitted from walking the straight and narrow. That’s until he has to win over his former co-worker Kim (Rhea Seehorn) and decides to go straight for professional acclaim and a romantic attachment. After discovering the fraudulent billing at the Sandpiper chain of retirement homes, Jimmy is hired by the Santa Fe firm brought on for extra assistance on the case. The class action suit is a slam dunk, he gets the girl, and he gets to move out of the back of the strip mall nail salon that’s served as his office for the whole of the first season. His new office even has artwork. (It’s a dead man in a suit with a flower pot for a head, which reminds me of Walter White’s ricin hiding spot.) Just as Jimmy’s lot in life has improved, so has this show. Gone are the early days of season one, where the tone fluctuated from wacky to serious and it seemed like the writers weren’t exactly sure what to do with their newly unfettered character. Now Jimmy is consistent, as is the tone, and it seems that the season – in fact the whole series – is off in a steady direction. This is certainly helped by the more regular appearances of Jimmy’s future partner in crime Mike (Jonathan Banks), who is the force trying to rope Jimmy back into the dark side. Better Call Saul is a gripping tug of war for Jimmy’s soul. Is success and acceptance enough, or is the thrill of transgression too intoxicating for Jimmy to pass up? Can he be a good man even though he occasionally isn’t on the right side of the law? What’s so brilliant about this show is that we know the answer is no. Jimmy will ruin himself. Even though the season starts off with a spoiler, it’s still a thrill to watch.