HM Hugh MuirSG Suzanne Goldenberg JV John VidalSH Saleemul HuqSN Smita Nakhooda [Jingle: The Guardian] HM Hello and welcome to our podcast. I’m Hugh Muir. Well here we go again.   “What I see is that the whole narrative around emissions is not getting to the public.” “We went to Copenhagen Cop 15 with the great illusion that knowing what we do about climate change we would be able to reach an agreement that was equitable.” “We must remember Kyoto is our only legally binding agreement for cutting carbon globally.” “The statements have been coming thick and fast, nobody’s listening to them so they have to do more than just simply come to the top and make a statement.” “Every country has long subsidised its fossil fuels because of very powerful commercial interests and others.” “There have already been reports in some countries the so-called carbon cowboys have been secretly negotiating deals with governments.”“At some point in time we need to get serious.”  HM Just some of the programmes The Guardian has dedicated to climate change over the past four years. And now Cop comes to Lima and, with America and Europe desperate to have a final text before the end of the meeting, this is crunch time. But will a bad deal be better than no deal at all? Can it be made legally binding? And will it be fair to developing countries or will they be bullied into greater concessions? This is the Guardian Global development podcast supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.  And with me in our London studios today is the Guardian’s environment editor John Vidal. Down the line in Lima we have Saleemul Huq; he’s director of the International Centre for Climate Change and Development; and Smita Nakhooda from the UK’s Overseas Development Institute. Greetings to all of you.  Now Lima was intended to be a stepping stone to the talks in Paris next year but it’s now hoped it will be the place where countries can put flesh on the bones of the vague plans that we currently have for a climate deal. Covering those talks for The Guardian is our US environment correspondent, Suzanne Goldenberg, and this is her view on the challenges and hopes for Cop20.  SG There are some pretty big obstacles all around. One, we have seen some encouraging signs ahead of the talks. The big three emitters, that would be the US, China and the EU have all pledged emissions cuts. These aren’t enough to keep us on a course for the 2C target, but they’ve made those pledges. However the other big carbon polluters, such as Russia and India and Australia, haven’t come forward with their commitments. So there’s that aspect of everybody has to get on board with this.  Another big potentially stumbling block is what is the shape going to be of this agreement? The US is pretty adamant that it cannot agree to legally binding targets because that would make any kind of agreement a treaty and the US knows from past experience it cannot get a treaty through congress; not least because [the] congress that’s going to be charge from January onwards when it’s seated is going to be a congress that’s dominated by Republicans who will not be in a frame of mind to back any action on climate change.  Those leaders got the hint that there is popular support for doing something on the climateSuzanne Goldenberg  Well I have to say, you know I’ve covered a number of these and routinely in the last few days before the talks get under way there’s a downplaying of expectations. It’s like “Oh I don’t really think anything’s going to come out of this. Don’t hold your breath, we won’t get a deal.” And certainly that’s been the case because there’s been 20 years of these talks. But this time I do detect some optimism that there is a sense that things are moving quite well. And there’s a number of reasons for that. One, there was a UN meeting in September where you had all the leaders gathering to make pledges about climate action without actually being specific about those pledges. But that sort of created some sort of positive feelings surrounding the talks. Even more so you had those leaders seeing the spectacle of up to 400,000 people in the streets of New York City demanding action on climate change. So those leaders sort of got the hint that there is popular support for doing something on climate. And I think that has fed into a sense of momentum. Of course the US-China agreement just a couple of weeks ago has been another big boost.  And behind the scenes diplomats tell me that they also get a feeling that people are working more, they’re more prepared than they have been going into previous UN climate negotiations so they do get a sense that things are moving quite well, the level of preparation is quite good going into Lima and further down the line laying the groundwork for a final agreement in Paris. LM That was our US environment correspondent, Suzanne Goldenberg, speaking earlier. Saleemul, way back in 2011 you came on to this programme, how has the mood changed since then?  SH I think the mood has changed quite positively as Suzanne has mentioned. Back then, particularly in Copenhagen when we tried to arrange a new deal, China and the US were the dissenting parties that hid behind each other and said they weren’t going to take action if the other doesn’t. That’s completely different now. The recent agreement between the two presidents to take action together from the two biggest polluters to me is a game-changer.  The momentum that we’ve had from the UN secretary general’s meeting in New York I think is also very positive and, as Suzanne says, the march in New York with 400,000 people, I was on that march myself, in the frontline of it, representing the Bangladeshi community who are the frontlines of climate change tackling, and there is a momentum, a positive momentum and that’s what we need to be building on in Lima to raise the level of ambition. Unfortunately, the pledges that we have both on the money front as well as on the mitigation or reducing greenhouse gas emissions front isn’t enough. They’re all in the right direction but they’re, neither of them are enough. And so the trick now is to up the ante in the level of ambition that everybody is willing to take here in Lima.  And I must say the first couple of days it is a very positive atmosphere here.  HM John, one doesn’t often use the word “optimistic” in relation to these matters, how optimistic do you feel?  JV I’m going to be the old misery guts because I fear that it’s not going to be as easy as they think. There’s a lot of official optimism especially among the rich countries, I mean they really are pretty gung-ho that there will be a deal done. They can’t really brook any obstacle, they’re pretty sure that they’re going to get everybody on board almost by the end of this meeting here. And then Paris in 2016 will be a relatively simple celebration of a deal. The reality is though the bar has been set so low that it’ll be very difficult for anybody not to sign up to it. And I just think that it’s all … a slight arrogance of countries to think that they can just push through something which perhaps is very unjust and unfair and go over the heads of some of the poorer countries, [which] may come back to bite them very, very hard later on.  HM I suppose we can always rely on you to pour cold water. Smita, we’ve had lots of headlines from the US with the agreement with China and the launch of the Green Climate Fund. Is there a sense that even there they want a deal done before we get to Paris next year? SN I do think that these are all hugely encouraging signals. And John is right to point out that we’re getting these signals from a relatively low baseline in terms of where previous commitments to act on either mitigation or on finance have been. The commitments that we’ve seen announced have the potential to really represent step-changes in terms of the level of funding that is made available to mechanisms of the convention. Far from enough of course, but $10bn, which is the order of magnitude of pledges to the Green Climate Fund, would make it almost 10 times larger than the other financial mechanism of the convention, the Global Environment Facility. So that is a significant increase although, of course, relative to the scale of the challenge we’re trying to take on and the needs that countries have it remains a modest commitment.  I’d say similarly in terms of the indications we have around the level of impact of the sorts of commitments we’re seeing from China that you and the US announced, these do represent, if implemented properly, material increases and accelerations to the pace of mitigation that each of these entities would have to undertake. And I also think it’s worth recognising that all three of those countries in framing their mitigation pledges to date have expressed openness to wrapping up the ambition of those targets over time. And so in the spirit of continuous improvement that both Saleem has alluded to and John has made very clearly the case for being an imperative if we want to take this chattel. There are some indications that there is willingness to have that review and ramping up begin to take place.  MH John, why are you less optimistic? Is this almost a trauma from Copenhagen in 2009 because we know that ended in disaster and we lost a lot of time.  JV It did end in disaster. This has taken 22 years to achieve very, very little. Frankly, it’s a disaster in negotiations, in international negotiations that it has taken this long to get so little way down the road to anything meaningful at all. And we’ve got to understand, to me sometimes it seems that this is nothing to do with the environment, this is nothing to do with emissions, this is everything to do with global superiority, this is to do with getting advantage, of big power blocks getting advantage over others. And it’s very much obviously about the developing countries getting a fair deal. And at the moment I don’t think they are at all. So I think it really won’t go quite as smoothly. The money is nowhere near the $10bn, $9.8bn which has been pledged so far, represents no more than the City of London bankers get in their annual bonuses every year. And this is supposed to be the start of a financial system which is going to see every developing country with a huge amount of money to spend. It’s just not there. And I think we’ll see the anger later on.  HM Saleemul Huq, is he right, is this too much about an international power play and not enough about the environment?  SH Well unfortunately that is true, I can’t disagree with John there. It is about power politics, and the rich and the powerful never, ever voluntarily give up their power and their wealth. And so it has to be extracted like teeth in a dentist chair. On the other hand let me add two other elements, maybe game-changers, which aren’t happening here in Lima but are happening in reality. Firstly, countries are realising that climate change is real. Even rich countries like the US are going to be impacted by climate change. They’re going to have to adapt to the impacts of climate change. The hurricane Sandy that hit the north-eastern coast of the US cost them $50bn. The drought in California cost them more than $50bn. These are not trivial amounts even for a rich country like the US. So climate change is a reality and they’re going to have to deal with it whether they like it or not.  JV You’re going to have to persuade the Republicans of that though aren’t you? SH Well yes but that’s their problem, they’re going to have to deal with the reality of climate change whether the Republicans deny it or don’t deny it. And that is real. The effects of the droughts, the effects of the hurricanes are real on real people in the US. That they cannot deny. And that’s going to become ever more apparent to everybody. Even in the UK we had the floods last year, which in Bangladeshi terms was a trivial flood. You had £1bn worth of damage in the UK. These are not trivial amounts any more even for rich countries, at home the impacts of climate change. So this reality is a game-changer. China and India are seeing benefits in reducing their emissions and going on a cleaner and greener development pathwaySaleemul Huq  The other reality is that for many developing countries like China and India, who previously used to be reluctant to take actions, now that they’ve started taking actions they’re seeing that there are actual benefits in reducing their emissions and going on a cleaner and greener development pathway. And China is going to become the leader of this cleaner, greener development post-fossil fuel era. That’s a game-changer – where China goes, the rest of the world will go. And the US will come on board not because of climate change but to beat China; they cannot allow China to be the leaders of the post-fossil fuel global economy, which is where we are headed. So there are major actions taking place outside the arena of Lima in negotiations. So the negotiations are no longer the only game in town with respect to tackling this problem.  HM John, does that make sense to you?  JV It does. And I just notice from looking at the wires today that another huge typhoon is heading towards the Philippines and it seems to do this every year. And maybe in three days’ time much of the Philippines will be under water. At what point though does the reality of climate change actually spill over into action and that’s what we haven’t seen for 20 years. And how bad has it got to get really before countries really put their money and their politics where the reality is?  HM It’s funny you’ve mentioned the Philippines because of course you want all the major players at these kind of conferences but their chief negotiator, Yeb Saño, won’t even be there.  JV Well he was one of the moral leaders of these talks for the last couple of years and he’s put a lot of emotion in talks about how absolutely vital it is. He’s not there, we don’t know why exactly. We’ve tried to get him on to this show but he’s not answering. It seems that he’s been dropped as the chief negotiator for the Philippines and he’s sitting at home and we don’t know why, we don’t know what he’s done. Yeb has gone, we don’t know where he is and the Philippines have got a much weaker negotiating team this year.  HM Well they say transparency is the best disinfectant, so Yeb if you hear this get in touch with John and tell him what’s happening. Smita, we’ve talked a bit about Copenhagen and the fact that that ended badly. What have we learned since then that would make Cop20 be a more successful event than Copenhagen in 2009?  SN I think there’s a number of areas on which we’ve learned; and one is around really starting to do the homework at home that allows one to come to these international meetings prepared to make major commitments. Like Saleem says, at home we see an enormous amount of activity in developing countries in particular aimed at bringing climate change into the core of development trajectories. The process that needs to get under way to frame the kinds of commitments that countries can commit to internationally through INDCs [intended nationally determined contributions] as another major recognition of the need for there to be a real process of deliberation within countries that engages key stakeholders and politicians and the politics around the nature of the action that needs to be taken.My sense is that there is much more of a focus on implementation and what it will take to deliver adaptation and mitigation in practice in the lead up to this particular summit in Paris. And one sees that through the diversity of [voices] that are beginning to engage around the question of what they can do, which is reflected in some ways in the constellation of actors that engaged in the lead up to the secretary general’s summit in September. And also in this range of actors that are taking action in the context of this negotiation in the lead up to Paris.  I think the other area where we’re beginning to see some progress of course as I say is in terms of finance. Not just the financial mechanism of the convention but also this recognition that in order to achieve the overarching goals of achieving adaptation and mitigation we’re going to have to engage with the financial system as a whole and start to move overarching investment away from business as usual so that it is more compatible with low-carbon and climate-resilient approaches. And this is what some of the space and some of the new analysis that the standing committee on climate finance has done on the current state of play as investment and climate change explores in some depth, noting that it’s a challenge of greening investment as a whole, in addition to mobilising particular funding under the convention that can send the right signals and deliver the much needed support to developing countries.  HM You’re talking money there and it’s always a wise thing to follow the money, so let’s talk money. We mentioned the Green Climate Fund or GCF; America, France, Britain and Germany have all paid in but John is it enough?  JV Well it is moving in the right direction but the target was to get between $10bn and $15bn. So what they’ve got is absolutely the lowest possible bit to get on to the next step. I mean it’s reluctant. It’s as Saleem was saying this is teeth pulling nonsense frankly. It is so little money in the great scheme of things that it’s meaningless. And how they’re going to get it up to $100bn a year, which is what they’ve pledged to do by 2020, is another matter. So no formal mechanism has been out yet. And when it comes to the money that’s where the rich countries are going to squeal the most. And that’s where the developing countries are going to demand the most. And, for me, it’s a frightening signal of how little they want to give.  HM Smita, you’ve been looking at this a bit more closely, I think you’ve been working on an ODI [Oversea Development Institute] paper on how much climate funding various countries receive; what have you been finding out?  SN What we have found in looking at how iexisting climate funds work, it’s clear that in many cases they have been spending money in the places that need it on activities that can make a difference. But they have been much too small and much too constrained in their ability to take on the right kinds of risks and engage the right kinds of actors, the ones who are really making the investments that matter. And these are all spaces in which existing funds are going to need space to do more and better, and where new funds are going to have to demonstrate that they really can engage more effectively. And I think that again the signals are there, that this is moving in the right direction, but the demonstration needs to happen in order to build that political commitment to investing in these sorts of agendas and outcomes within contributor countries as well.  HM And is transparency the key? Is that how you are able to persuade those big countries that maybe they should come up with a bit more money?  SN Well I think transparency about how much money and what it’s achieving is absolutely key and having the stories around how this funding begins to help development finance institutions and developing country governments and investors do more on climate action is quite key there as well, having that evidence around what works. And what we find is there is a lot of good stuff happening but it’s just not big enough and it really needs to scale up and become more mainstream in shifting development trajectories.  HM Saleemul Huq in Lima, in addition to the Green Climate Fund you’ve proposed a kind of insurance scheme called Loss and Damage. Tell us a bit about that.  SH Well unfortunately all our efforts, as John as quite correctly pointed out over the last 20 years, has failed to solve the problem. Initially we were going to avoid the impacts of climate change by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. We agreed to do this 20 years ago with the Framework Convention on Climate Change but we didn’t do it. And then we have a certain amount of climate change locked in now; we are nearly 1C higher than pre-industrial temperatures and we are heading for around 1.5C inevitably and unavoidably. No amount of mitigation or reducing emissions is going to avoid a certain amount of impacts of climate change. And so we’ve been talking about doing adaptation; adapting to those impacts, particularly helping poorer countries who don’t have the technical and financial wherewithal to adapt on their own. And these are obligations that countries have taken on and rich countries have promised to pay but they’ve not been very good at fulfilling those promises that they’ve made to date.  What are we going to do when the countries of Tuvalu and Kiribati, low-lying Pacific countries, actually go under water?Saleemul Huq  But unfortunately neither mitigation nor adaptation has taken place at the requisite levels. So we now face inevitable losses and damages for which we cannot adapt. And they are primarily going to be in poor countries and so we now have to think about what happens when those damage occur. And to give you the starkest example, what are we going to do when the countries of Tuvalu and Kiribati, low-lying Pacific countries, actually go under water, which they inevitably will do over the many decades ahead in this century. It’s a brand new problem. It’s a human-induced problem not a natural-caused problem. And something we’re going to have to deal with in the climate change arena. Last year in the Warsaw Cop we actually managed to come to an agreement on this, we created something called the Warsaw International Mechanism which we’ll try and figure out what to do. One of the options is an insurance scheme and they’re being tried in a variety of locations around the world including the Caribbean and in Africa, of paying some premiums now and then having insurance companies or reinsurance companies or conglomerates of the insurance systems then pay off when the damages actually do occur. This is just one mechanism or two but it is an issue that is now unavoidable. We are going to have to tackle it, and failure to tackle it will have unforeseen consequences for the rich for refusing to take action when they could have taken action. Then once the harm is done they really do not have any recourse from whatever reactions take place from those who are harmed by their inaction. And this is an extremely critical political decision that rich countries are going to have to make in order to avoid unforeseeable consequences in the future.  HM John Vidal, in London, you’ve been a bit sniffy about most things so far; what about this insurance scheme is this a good idea?  JV Well America and Europe hate the idea, they absolutely really, really don’t like it. It wasn’t their idea, it was Saleem’s idea, frankly. But I think as they come round it’s going to become a very, very important issue. It’s been picked up by all the developing countries, people see the wisdom in it, people understand how it could work. It needs obviously more flesh, it needs all kinds of different work done on it but the principles have been laid. And I suspect that we’re already having insurance schemes against food insecurities in Africa and things like that, it’s not a very difficult thing to do; and Saleem will know far more about this, but I suspect it will become a major issue over the next six-nine months and that America and Europe will be practically forced to set up some kind of major organisational something to handle this sort of thing.  HM Do you think they will if they hate it so much? Won’t they just find some way to undermine it or scupper it?  JV Everything’s a bargaining position and if it’s convenient for them to do it they will do it. And if they don’t have to come up with the money then they’ll do it just like that.  HM Right, OK real politic at all times. So, John, we’re hearing a lot about the deal that was hammered out between the US and China recently; just give us a flavour of what that was about?  JV Well it sounded very, very impressive. America pledged to cut its emissions between 26-28% – based on that it will be 26% – by 2025 on 2005 figures. Lots of figures there. Actually there’s not much that they’re going to have to do because their trajectory is in that direction anyway. [President Barack] Obama has agreed to that because he won’t get anything more through Congress or whatever, he knows that perfectly well. So this is the safest figure which he can get. China has agreed to peak its emissions by 2030. This is absolutely key. This is what America was pressing for, for so long, to stop China effectively just growing and growing and growing its economy over the next 20-30 years. It’s managed to get them down to 2030. Again China, they’re pretty well there anyway. My understanding is that this means that neither superpower is going to have to do very much at all. They won’t have any political problems at home and they’ll be able to get it through. It’s basically lower common denominated stuff. It sounds impressive but not actually in reality.  HM Saleem, we all heard about this deal between the US and China and not being so close to the detail it seemed like a good thing. Was it actually a good thing?  SH I think it was a good deal. It puts the two biggest polluters in the world, China and the US, together to try and solve the problem, which is moving in the right direction when they used to be moving in opposite directions to each other. That’s a good sign. So that’s putting positive momentum in the right direction. Unfortunately what they’ve promised to do is far from sufficient if we want to bend the curve of climate change, global warming, temperature rises to 2C which is where we want to go. In fact, the least developed countries want to go down to 1.5C. But even with the actions that the Chinese and Americans are promising we are still headed well above 3C, perhaps 3.5C. And so a lot more will need to be done both by China and the US as well as by everybody else. The good news is everybody wants to do things; the bad news is they’re not doing enough and they need to do a lot more.  HM Smita, it’s so complicated in the US isn’t it because whatever the Obama administration want to do in the time he has left is so complicated by the various arms of government and the Republicans. Can the US actually do any more do you think? SN It’s a challenging scenario and the administration’s leadership on this issue is longer awaited and much needed. It is certainly going to be a challenge to convince the political actors that ultimately get to decide on these issues within the US that this is in their interests. But in many ways it’s worth coming back to some of the points Saleem raised at the outset, on the new constituencies for action that we’re seeing emerge, including in the US. I think all politicians must have taken note of the 400,000 people that were on the streets of New York advocating for ambitious action including by the US. It is, as Saleem noted earlier, the US that has been horrifically hit by a serious of very extreme climate related events starting with Katrina, most recently hurricane Sandy – all of these things making the impacts of climate change that much less deniable for policymakers and the politicians that ultimately have to represent people affected by these problems domestically.  And I think it’s also worth noting, including on finance, that the US has in the past been a substantial contributor to climate funds and if the case can be made that this money is going to really make a difference and help poor countries and engage the private sector effectively those are arguments that may help, even on that very tricky agenda, keep support for continued action. HM John, that’s the politics that Obama will have to deal with. But in China is there any politics they have to deal with; what’s the driver there?  JV I think the driver is the direction which they are taking anyway. And they’ve seen with their air pollution, they’ve seen with the civil unrest which is coming with so many of their industrial urban centres that they need to really clean up their cities. And that actually means cleaning up the climate as well. So it’s not actually very difficult for them to promote these ideas. They’re pushing at an open door, if you like, I think there’s no problem there. They are cutting back on coal, they are ramping up, as Saleem says, the renewables, they’re well ahead on the solar – they are really showing the way, I mean globally and in production and in action themselves. So I think that they’ve chosen a politically convenient figure which America can agree with, but China will go its own way.  HM Well this is very important but it’s also really dramatic and of course every drama needs a baddie and perhaps the baddie at Cop20 will be Australia. Last month, we heard the Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, try to hijack the talks. There has been talk there about what Australia will have and what it won’t put up with. What are you expecting from them?  JV Well Australia is a sort of wild card now isn’t it? Canada was as well. Russia has been. Then you’ve got some of the Latin Americans – Venezuela and Bolivia and Ecuador have their own reasonings. So these climate talks are always dramatic. There’s always a wonderful finale, there’s always drama. And that’s what makes them, that’s what grips the world – can they fail yet again? But I do think that there will be many hiccups along the way. Australia is just this week’s bad boys. Next month there’ll be another one I can guarantee.  HM Smita, what will you be looking for in terms of how the various countries behave; do you see an uber-baddie emerging, will that be Australia do you think?  SN There are a lot of countries that have some major obstacles that they need to overcome in order to be able to get us to the deal that we need to. Australia’s position has been really unhelpful of late which is a shame because I think in the past Australia has actually been a really constructive actor on climate change including on finance issues. And in the past extreme climate-related events within Australia have driven home the imperatives for action and past administrations have seen that. I think in terms of what it’s going to take to get us all to a more ambitious outcome, it does in many ways come down to confronting the reality, but embracing low-carbon and climate-resilient development means letting go of some of our old paths to development. And that means letting go of a lot of business as usual approaches which is how a lot of the most powerful countries have made their money. And that’s a big part of the new incentive regime that we need to create as one beds around low-carbon and climate-resilient approaches instead of the things that caused the problem.  HM Saleemul, how should they play it; how do the countries that really want to move forward and be positive about getting action persuade the countries that aren’t so positive and don’t seem so desperate to move forward?  SH Well I work very closely with one of the most vulnerable groups of countries, they’re called the least developed countries, nearly 50 of the poorest countries in the world, and they’re a focus group in the negotiations within the broader group of 77 and China which is the umbrella for all developing countries. And this particular group, the least developed countries group, have, by definition, the most to lose by inaction to tackle climate change because, as I’ve said, even a 1.5C temperature rise means a lot of damage and loss to these countries. And a 2C rise actually also means a lot of harm to these countries. So it’s in their interest to get a good resolution out of Lima and then Paris with everybody working together. So what these countries have now been able to do and are doing is arguing firstly that everybody needs to take action so the old mantra that developing countries will be given a free pass is now over. And the good news is that China, India, Brazil and the large developing countries are now prepared to take actions. They need to do a lot more than they have pledged to do so far and that’s going to be the trick, to persuade them to do that in Lima. The other side of the coin is the promised funding to the least developed countries. Now there was some years ago; at the seventh Conference of Parties in Marrakech in Morocco in 2001 the rich countries set up a fund called the least developed countries fund for these least developed countries. And they prepared the adaptation plans of action that they were required to do, went to get them funded, it takes a total of in the order of $2bn to fund all the actions that they proposed. But the rich countries have only come up with less than half a billion dollars to do that. These are trivial amounts of money as John has pointed out. But they haven’t even given that. And so this sort of lack of delivery on pledges made has a sense of bitterness for the poorest countries in particular which makes it very difficult for them to believe pledges and actions that are taken by rich countries. Nevertheless they are pushing forward for a fair and ambitious deal, ultimately in Paris but lay the groundwork for that here in Lima. And as I said the mood is good whether or not people can be moved to take the kinds of actions and pledges that are going to be required at the levels that are required. So the mantra here, if you like, or the test is going to be are the pledges adequate to solve the problem? So far they’re not. And we hope that we move towards adequacy as we go through the next few days here in Lima.  HM OK. We’ve talked about the intricacies but I’m going to ask you all to turn soothsayer and give me some idea of what you actually think will happen. You’re all experienced hands and so you know how these things tend to play out. So I want to get from each of you just some sense of how you think things are actually going to play out. John Vidal, I’ll start with you.  JV Well cops are like herding cats. It really is very, very difficult to get any kind of agreement by the end but they will, they will. You can guarantee that the UN will pummel or pommel through some kind of stitch-up deal. It may not be exactly what the rich countries want; it may not be exactly what the LDCs want, but it will be something. Because like it or not they have got to get an agreement in Paris next year. The whole UN system, as far as I can see, will collapse if it fails again. So that’s why the bar is so low, that’s why there will be arm twisting, there will be bullying, there will be aid offered, they’ll be all manner of things to get people aboard in the right way. What we’ll get at the very end I suspect will be a deal but it may not be the deal that anyone really wants.  HM Smita, is that how you see things, we’ll get a deal but it might not be the deal that we were hoping for?  SN I’m not sure there is such a thing as a perfect deal when you’re looking at an issue as complex as climate is and the range of interests that have to be accommodated. Ultimately, what the convention process can do is send a signal that this is a hugely important policy issue. That the international community is going to rally together to help realise and I think that if a deal can send signals to that effect and offer the need for ambition to continue to be increased and further to be accountability for increased ambition and scale of action then that would be very encouraging, and I think that’s within the realm of the possible.  HM What is your prediction though; do you think that they will get that deal?  SN I think that by Paris there is a high likelihood of us getting a deal that commits to increasing ambition over time.  HM OK. And Saleemul, what do you think will happen by Paris, will there be a deal that you can, being a reasonable man, that you can be happy with?  Any deal should leave everybody unhappy because if somebody’s happy it’s not a fair dealSaleemul Huq  SH Well deals are always compromises. So one of the characteristics of any kind of deal is that it should leave everybody unhappy because if somebody’s happy then it’s not a fair deal. So we will get some kind of a deal and I will be unhappy with it because it will not be sufficient. But if it’s in the right direction then that would be at least going in the right direction. And as I said actions speak much more louder than the words that we negotiated in the UNFCC. It used to be the case that this was where the action is. The action is no longer in the framework convention talks. The action is on the ground. Countries are actually doing things and I cited the case of China and India and other countries on mitigation; but I’ll cite the case of my country, Bangladesh, on adaptation; Bangladesh is putting in about a half a billion dollars of its own money into a national strategy on climate change action plans. They’re not waiting for the world to come to their rescue, they’re going ahead and tackling the problem because the problem is on their doorstep and they have to tackle it. This will be the case for all countries as we go along. Reality will overtake these talks and the talks will become redundant. The talks are good to have an agreement on where we all want to go together and hopefully they’ll be binding enough for us to be able to hold each other to account; but actions on the ground are going to speak a lot more louder than these kinds of talks that we have in Lima and in Paris.  HM So we go forward to Cop20 hopeful but realistic. My thanks to all our guests: John Vidal here in London; Saleemul Huq in Lima; and Smita Nakhooda. Don’t forget you can have your say on theguardian.com/global-development, just click on the link under this podcast and that will take you where you can leave your comments. But that’s all we have time for. I’m Hugh Muir. The producer was Matt Hill. Thank you for listening and goodbye. [Jingle: For more great downloads go to theguardian.com/audio.] 