Harry Potter and the Cursed Child: the West End extravaganza – in pictures With the production emerging from its lengthy previews period, the reviews of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child are out – and overwhelmingly positive. In the two-part stage production, written by Jack Thorne from a story by him, director John Tiffany, and JK Rowling herself, Harry’s son Albus befriends the son of his father’s enemy Draco Malfoy, as he too sets off on a path of wizardry. Here’s what the critics made of it.Michael Billington, the Guardian (four stars) [Tiffany] has masterminded a thrilling theatrical spectacle … Thorne, like Rowling, knits together a series of mythical strands. There is the quest motif, which is as old as Arthurian legend. There is the idea of time travel, which has been a standard part of sci-fi from HG Wells to Doctor Who. On top of that you have a Manichean world in which good and evil are locked in perpetual combat. Underlying all that is a mix of white magic and Christian theology that leads Harry to say, at one point, ‘A child died to save the world’ … while it helps to be a paid-up Potterhead, Tiffany and his team stage the piece with such dazzling assurance that I finally began to see the point of being wild about Harry.Dominic Cavendish, the Telegraph (five stars) It’s a triumph. Not an unqualified one – there are some quibbles – but in all key respects, it grips, it stirs, it delights … The twists and turns of the time-travelling plot, which sees outcomes messily altered (one vision of Hogwarts as dystopian as it gets) and a journey back to the beginning of the Potter story, make some of the more convoluted episodes of Doctor Who look almost Blyton-esque. Yet you can’t stop watching … There are reservations, as I’ve implied (for one thing, the male roles are far better fleshed out than the female ones; we see too little, for instance, of Ron and Hermione’s daughter Rose), but to labour those failings would be to miss the point. The big news is that this is just what was needed, will raise the benchmark for family entertainment for years to come and may even usher in a whole cycle of Potter-world stories.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The set for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. Photograph: Manuel HarlanAnn Treneman, the Times (four and three quarter stars) It’s not so much a play as a weekend mini-break, a theatrical experience that lasts longer than some relationships. I am a mere Muggle, of course, which is Potter-speak for those of us without magical powers, but that doesn’t mean I can’t spot wizardry when I see it … As I watched the rapt faces round me, I realised that the complexity of this story (there are mazes that are more straightforward) is key. Rowling never treats her audience as dolts. So this is Dickens, with magic. It’s a raunchless Game of Thrones with heart. Crucially, it’s authentic Potter but, most importantly, it’s new. It’s not the movie of the book. It’s the real deal, live in front of you, so much better than any film could be.Ben Brantley, New York Times Like the novels that preceded it, The Cursed Child is stuffed with arcana-filled plots that defy diagrams and baldly wrought sentimental life lessons, along with anguished dives into the earnest, tortured solipsism of adolescence. By rights, such a combination should try the patience of any grown-up. But like Ms Rowling’s books, the play vanquishes resistance … This production captures Ms Rowling’s sensibility even more persuasively than did the special-effects-driven films … The word for these imaginative leaps of faith is empathy. That’s the magic practiced so affectingly and entertainingly in The Cursed Child, and it turns everyone in the audience into a sorcerer’s apprentice.Kate Maltby, Wall Street Journal A nostalgic reverie for the Potter generation, devoid of Ms Rowling’s sharpest metaphysical logic … Yet thanks to the presence of some of Britain’s most talented theatre makers, including Mr Tiffany, and a bevy of heartfelt performances, the latest addition to the Potter canon makes a surprising case for the restorative power of theatre … we sometimes feel we’re at a theme park ride rather than an artistic performance. But strip away the smoke and mirrors and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is, like all Ms Rowling’s narratives, a soul-salving celebration of friendship and loyalty.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   New fan favourites … Anthony Boyle (Scorpius Malfoy) and Alex Price (Draco Malfoy). Photograph: Manuel HarlanHenry Hitchings, Evening Standard (five stars) A feast for fans, packed with pathos, dazzling choreography and moments of pure enchantment … Occasionally the script works too hard to avert the nitpicking of the books’ most fanatical admirers. Yet if explaining the story’s more ticklish details sometimes stalls its momentum, the characterisation is richly convincing … of all the performances the most layered and absorbing comes from relative newcomer Anthony Boyle as Scorpius, who’s surely set to be a fan favourite.Sarah Hemming, Financial Times (five stars) Gripping, dark, wittily acted and often visually dazzling. Above all, though, it succeeds because the team has put transformation right at the heart of the story, both structurally and emotionally … There are echoes of Back to the Future here, and one could take a dim view of so much recycled material. But it’s purposefully done, raises topical political questions about the way forks in the road lead to different futures and the main thrust is personal and ultimately immensely poignant.Jack Shepherd, the Independent (five stars) JK Rowling, Jack Thorne, and John Tiffany have created a theatre production of immense wonder, one that is highly referential to Harry Potter stories past and is, above all, truly magical … Anthony Boyle [as Scorpius Malfoy] shows spectacular comic timing, as does Paul Thornley who plays the always amusing, somewhat underused, Ron Weasley … it’s a spectacle for the theatre, one that is filled to the brim with fan service and magical imagery that will amaze.Matt Trueman, Variety It is, quite simply, spellbinding: The Show That Lived Up to Expectations – and Then Some … A captivating story given a spectacular staging and – Rowling’s specialty – a big, big heart. Twenty years ago, Harry Potter turned a generation on to reading. The Cursed Child could do the same for theatre. Its secret is simple: Rowling’s fantastical world is realised not with high-tech wizardry, but through the rough magic of theatre. Broomsticks hop into their owners’ hands. Wands spit green jets of fire, blasting wizards 10 feet into the air. Bodies vanish, balloon and transfigure. Ears shoot steam. Objects levitate … Beneath the surface, Cursed Child is absolutely contemporary. It shows a generation that has known only peace and certainty on the cusp of chaos; its villain isn’t an overlord with an army at hand, but a lone terrorist acting in and out of isolation.Quentin Letts, Daily Mail (four stars) Galloping goblins, it’s long. The Harry Potter stage show, watched with breaks in one, bot-rotting day, is an eight-hour marathon memorable mainly for its special effects … Potter enthusiasts will not mind how long the experience lasts but it seems artistically self-indulgent, and hard on families in terms of time and money, to split the experience into two parts. Hard-nosed editing could surely reduce the content to a single performance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beware the Dementors … the show continues. Photograph: Manuel HarlanJames Hibberd, Entertainment Weekly A production that’s as spectacular as it is ambitious, stuffed with special effects and twists that had a preview audience gasping … Part One in particular seems a bit overstuffed – with some lengthy exchanges and a couple unnecessary scenes that could be cut altogether. The production needs more moments to let the actors take a breath and play their roles rather than speeding through pages of script faster than Harry on his Firebolt. “You talk too much,” one character declares, but the same could be said for nearly everybody. Yet there’s something comfortably familiar about the excess too … The performances are naturally the most work-in-progress aspect. There are shouted deliveries that recall Rowlings’ Order of Phoenix-era tendency to floor her caps-lock to prove characters are REALLY UPSET.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie Parker as Harry Potter. Photograph: Manuel HarlanKasia Delgado, Radio Times The stagecraft is mind-bogglingly clever and creative and the audience gasped and clapped as characters vanished through Platform 9 3/4, sweets made ears smoke, props were whooshed away under cloaks and broomsticks levitated above the ground … The time-turner narrative that fuels the action may feel like cheesy Harry Potter fan fiction but that doesn’t make the overall storyline any less poignant.Theo Bosanquet, Time It’s a fiendishly complex narrative, and moves at a lick; the first two years of Albus’s time at Hogwarts are told in the first 15 minutes … Cursed Child is really about the next generation, and it’s the younger cast that steal the show, especially Sam Clemmett as Albus and Anthony Boyle as Scorpius … This enchantment will turn even the most doubting Muggles into true believers.Neil Norman, Daily Express (five stars) If the opening is a bit hard to follow it soon settles down to the business of Good v Evil, Magic v Muggles, friendships won, lost and found again and the all-important relationship between fathers and sons … As for the soul-sucking Dementors that fly around the stage and into the audience, I admit I ducked along with everyone else. Amazing and very, very scary.Leslie Felperin, The Hollywood Reporter Surprisingly, it turns out that the medium of theatre is a better fit for the material than film, because in a theatre magic tricks really look, well, magical … when this production uses a simple lighting trick to suggest a ripple in the fabric of time, or makes someone disappear in a phone box (almost literally the oldest magic trick in the book), these dusty theatrical sleights actually draw gasps and applause from the audience.Mark Shenton, The Stage This is a major work in its own right, with an entirely distinctive theatrical life and shape. It earns its place on the stage, feeling distinct from both the books and the screen adaptations. By turns playful and gripping, disturbing and detailed, poignant and powerful, it is superb family entertainment.