Many of my writing days are research days. While working on The Glass Universe, such days typically began early enough to catch the 7am bus from Northampton, Massachusetts, where I was living while teaching at Smith College, to Boston’s South station – a trip of two to three hours. Then I took the T Red line a few stops to Harvard Square in Cambridge, walked to the Pusey Library, and down to the basement headquarters of the Harvard University archives. The enchanted reading room, where visiting scholars gain access to the vast holdings of historical materials, opens at 11am, and stays open for only five hours a day, five days a week. To make every available moment count, I ate a series of snacks en route so I wouldn’t need to break for lunch. (Food and drink are anathema in the reading room, ditto mints and gum.) On good days, I did not even break to go to the ladies’.Archival research strikes some people as boring or burdensome. You occasionally hear writers bemoaning the time they spent “toiling in dusty archives”. But in truth, it’s great fun. If you enjoy crosswords or detective mysteries, you would thrive on rummaging through archives. One never knows what treasures will emerge from the numbered containers that the archivists deliver to one’s table. For example, although I had a good idea of what I’d find inside the two boxes labelled “HUGFP 125.2 Annie Jump Cannon Diaries,” I was stunned to discover a tattered trove of small volumes – some gilt-edged and leather-bound with lock and key, others plain as pocket memo pads – bearing the handwritten reminiscences from a 45-year career at the Harvard Observatory. The original correspondence files proved just as engrossing as the diaries. The philanthropist Catherine Wolfe Bruce, though she lived in a New York City mansion and made charitable contributions for amounts such as $50,000, showed an endearing frugality in her use of the blue notepaper monogrammed with her deceased brother’s initials.On one memorable day engaged in reading other people’s mail, I went through the fat file of letters sent to the observatory director by Priscilla Fairfield, an assistant professor at Smith College. She participated in Harvard astronomy projects during her summer vacations in the 1920s, also occasionally at weekends, so that preparations and follow-up comments necessitated frequent exchanges. She wrote on Smith College Observatory stationery but drafted one letter from home, and appended her address under her signature: 65 South Street, Northampton, Massachusetts. It was my address – the same venerable building a few blocks from campus where I’d found a flat for the three years of my visiting faculty appointment. With only 10 apartments in total, the odds seemed not very long that she, too, had occupied #4, though, alas, she failed to specify. I could pick up a magnifying loupe and see the very stars and galaxies the Harvard women uncovered in their examinations When the reading room shut at 4pm, I would walk up the long hill to the observatory. The Plate Stacks, as the repository for Harvard’s half a million glass-plate photographs is called, often stayed open well past the 6pm closing time. Far fewer visitors sought entry here, and a more casual atmosphere prevailed. With the curator’s guidance, I could put a 100-year-old plate on an electric light table, pick up a magnifying loupe and see the very stars and galaxies the Harvard women uncovered in their original examinations.The astronomy library at the observatory also afforded unusual flexibility of access. If I arrived before the doors locked at 5pm, I could stay inside as long as I pleased, even after the last librarian had gone home. Here I perused the annals – the reports of all the work accomplished by the observers and computers from as far back as 1852. They held no handwriting to decipher, but were awash with tabulations and technical jargon. I had an easier time reading the bound copies of the director’s reports to the president of the university, as these translated the arcane terminology into layman’s language.My research days sometimes extended to longer sojourns, requiring a room at a nearby B&B. After a few visits, I gained “frequent flyer” status and paid a reduced rate. I should point out, however, that admission to the university archives was free. All one needs to work there is a legitimate reason for conducting research. In this spirit, I have visited libraries in other states and countries, always amazed at the way doors fly open in response to a writer’s curiosity.The Glass Universe: How the Ladies of the Harvard Observatory Took the Measure of the Stars is published by 4th Estate. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.