Last summer, the promise of an Amy Schumer-penned film about sex and dating gave romantic comedy fans a reason to get excited. The genre, which has seen its sparkle considerably dulled in recent years, was about to receive an injection of reality from a comedian whose TV sketch show had revelled in tearing down tired female stereotypes.How To Be Single review – Rebel Wilson underused in diverting singleton comedy For a while, Trainwreck seemed to follow suit from Schumer’s television work, by sticking a drunken finger up to convention and showing a female character whose choice of boozy one-night stands over anything resembling conventional romance stood out as a refreshing change. For too long, women have been the rule-following stiffs in romcoms, desperate for love and affirmation, while men have had most of the fun. But as Schumer’s script progressed, the influence of director Judd Apatow soon started to dominate.Apatow is one of the most deceptively conservative directors in Hollywood, and even in the female-fronted hit Bridesmaids, which he produced, the film’s theme of unsentimental female friendship saw a forgettable romantic subplot shoehorned in. Schumer’s fierce independence and proud resistance of societal pressure to base her happiness on the man she’s with soon dissipated and she found herself changing and conforming for Bill Hader’s strangely flawless, and rather boring, love interest. Her sexual freedom became something to be ashamed of and her hatred of sports was soon abandoned for a regressive finale that saw her scantily clad, literally cheerleading for a man to want her.While ensemble comedy How to Be Single sounds on paper like hopelessly generic dross (New York! Ladies! Cocktails!), it manages to make a few rather fascinating decisions, at least within the framework of a very traditional genre. Based on a chick-lit book but entirely remodelled to fit the format of what feels like an extended pilot of a Sex and the City reboot, it focuses on four women and their differing views of singledom.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Now, just to be clear, we’re not talking about a transcendent game-changer here that deals with gritty realism. There are still frustrating cliches at play (work is an infrequent hobby yet expensive apartments are easily obtained) and a few too many moments of cloying sentimentality, but the film gets a surprising number of things right. The lead character Alice, played with impressive depth by Dakota Johnson, is sick of aligning herself with a man (“Why do we always tell our stories through relationships?” her voiceover asks). She’s forever at risk of falling into “dicksand”, a phrase created by her new friend Robin, a riotous Rebel Wilson.Stunted adolescents and bros4eva – the world according to Judd Apatow It refers to a risky state of being that results in a gradual loss of self, as a woman starts to forget who she is and instead becomes “a girlfriend” or “a wife” – part of a co-dependent unit without her own independence or fully formed set of identifiers to fall back on. (It must be noted that men are also susceptible to this.) At the start of the film, she breaks up with a college sweetheart in an attempt to try being single in the big city and receives an education on how to enjoy casual sex (without being punished!) and to rely on herself to deal with situations without a man’s help. Having found herself in a serious relationship at a young age, Alice has foregone the chance to find out what she wants, both emotionally and sexually, and through a series of educational flings, she starts to develop.Solitude is also key, and the film examines the process that one must go through when attempting to deprogramme a set of behaviours that exist out of a life shared with someone else.OK, so this is intercut with scenes of her doing shots with Rebel Wilson and a step-by-step process on dealing with a hangover at work, but there’s something slightly progressive about all of this: a woman enjoying sex and choosing to be alone without being branded a slut or an emotionally stunted freak.Along the way to her ultimate realisation, she has a brief relationship with an African American father, played by Damon Wayans Jr, and his race is never mentioned once, a departure from Schumer’s misjudged jokes in Trainwreck. This might sound like a minor note, but interracial romance on the big screen is still surprisingly taboo, especially within romantic comedies. If it does happen, it’s an issue or, more likely, the issue. Looking for casual sex? Head for the cinema    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There’s also a refreshing absence of weight jokes directed at Robin, despite the fact that Rebel Wilson’s on-screen presence has been somewhat reliant on this thus far, including her very character name, Fat Amy, in the Pitch Perfect films. What’s interesting about her character is how proudly single she remains. Hollywood has taught us to see women who aren’t in relationships as damaged Miss Havisham types to be pitied and eventually eaten by their cats. It’s this staid stereotype that has one waiting for Robin’s tearful revelation as to why she is alone, possibly involving a man’s betrayal, but it never comes. In fact, her secret is that she’s actually incredibly rich and is even happier than she appears.The film’s climactic, “running through the city to tell someone how you feel” moment is between two female characters, based around the importance of friendship, still sidelined so often for romance on screen. Christ, even Julia Roberts ended up with Javier Bardem at the end of her transatlantic soul-search in Eat Pray Love.At one point in the film, Leslie Mann’s character comments: “All those Sex and the City girls did was look for boyfriends.” In How to Be Single, the four women are hardly spending their days doing tapestries and embracing celibacy, but by the time the finale arrives, and some of the main characters remain single through choice and not sad circumstance, an important realisation has been made. Being alone, even if temporarily, isn’t a cry for help, it’s a decision, and one that can help a woman, or a man, figure out what they really want and need. Johnson’s Alice realises that dependence on someone else just to avoid spooning a pillow isn’t worth risking her own happiness. How to Be Single isn’t taking a dramatic left turn, but it’s making steady progress in the right direction.This article was amended on Friday 19 February 2016. We mistakenly put Miss Haversham rather than Miss Havisham. This has been corrected.