Too Much TV6.30pm, BBC2What should you watch on TV tonight, and what did you miss last night? This new, daily, live, lighthearted, upbeat teatime extravaganza from the producers of Strictly: It Takes Two is here to help. Aled Jones and Sara Cox are the inaugural presenters; future episodes will feature varying pairs drawn from those two, Emma Bunton and Rufus Hound. Coxy and Jonesey introduce clips, interviews and on-set featurettes. TMTV continues tomorrow, when presumably there’ll be a ruthless assessment of how today went. Jack SealePanorama – Cops, Criminals, Corruption: The Inside Story8.30pm, BBC1Just in time for the forthcoming new series of Line of Duty, Panorama has conjured up a startling real-life story from the grey area between police work and criminality. This documentary tells the inside story of how an organised crime syndicate arranged a hit on three police officers, and hears from law-enforcement officials who tapped the crooks’ phones, only to hear bent cops on the line. How common is this kind of corruption and how can it be prevented? Phil HarrisonThe People v OJ Simpson: American Crime Story9pm, BBC2Once you get used to John Travolta’s appearance as Robert Shapiro and forget you know how it all ends, this is meaty drama. There’s not much of Cuba Gooding Jr’s OJ this week, but there’s plenty to compensate, including an ironic opening scene with Robert Kardashian and his soon-to-be-famous offspring (“Fame is fleeting, it’s hollow”). Meanwhile Johnnie Cochran is lured to the defence team as the racial overtones of the case become evident. David StubbsDavina McCall: Life at the Extreme9pm, ITVIn this new series, Davina McCall experiences various extremes – hottest, coldest, deepest and wettest – to find out how creatures survive in such conditions. First, it’s Namibia, where daytime temperatures can reach 50C (122F). She runs with cheetahs to try to work out how they deal with the intense heat, and meets the hunter-gathering San people, who live in the Kalahari. On her final leg, it’s a journey to the Namib desert, where the dune systems stretch for 13,000 sq miles. Ben ArnoldGiles Coren: My Failed Novel9pm, Sky ArtsGiles Coren’s debut novel, Winkler, was published in 2005, and went on to sell just 771 copies in hardback. Coren’s dreams of winning the Booker were crushed. In a documentary that manages to avoid navel-gazing, he analyses where it all went wrong. Howard Jacobson, Rose Tremain and Jeffrey Archer offer their thoughts, but perhaps the most telling insights come via a creative-writing workshop, in which Coren’s prose is criticised for “picking a fight with the reader”. Jonathan WrightThe Walking Dead9pm, FOXLast week’s episode was a curiously domestic, light-hearted affair, consisting of a shopping run gone humorously awry, as Rick and Daryl came across a resourceful scamp with a grunge-messiah air, known as Jesus. Having ended the episode bursting in on Rick and Michonne’s love tryst, this week Jesus introduces the crew to new horizons outside their gated confines. Rick’s world, Jesus promises him, is about to get bigger. And so it does, and with it the series. DSFresh Meat10pm, Channel 4Fresh Meat’s final series has seen its supine students start to think about their futures, albeit with a fair bit of fantasy attached: JP wants to be a sashimi chef, and Kingsley thinks a geology degree will set him up nicely for a radio career. Oddly, it’s only Vod who is sorting out her present, tackling her debt woes by getting a job at the pub – bringing out a drinking problem in Howard in the process. And Josie is on the hunt for new housemates: she’s after people with the qualities of Ken Hom, Kate Bush and, er, Barney the Dinosaur. Gwilym Mumford      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rachel McAdams and Eric Bana in The Time Traveler’s Wife.Film choiceThe Time Traveler’s Wife (Robert Schwentke, 2009) 6.50pm, Film4In his second turn as a Henry this week, Eric Bana doesn’t need a Tardis to travel through time: he does it via a genetic anomaly, allowing him to randomly appear in, and vanish from, the life of his sweetheart Clare (Rachel McAdams). Adapted from Audrey Niffenegger’s bestseller, it ponders the meaning of love and fate. Enjoyable hokum.The Adjustment Bureau (George Nolfi, 2011) 9pm, Film4Bourne Ultimatum screenwriter George Nolfi reunites with Matt Damon in this reality-bending sci-fi thriller adapted, almost inevitably, from a Philip K Dick story. Damon plays an idealistic young congressman whose dalliance with ballet dancer Emily Blunt leads to the discovery of the shadowy Adjustment Bureau and its superpowered enforcers. They look like Mad Men and are led, appropriately, by John Slattery. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportChampionship football: Brighton & Hove Albion v Leeds United Promotion-chasing Brighton welcome Leeds. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1Netball Superleague: Manchester Thunder v Surrey Storm Action from the Thunderdome in Manchester. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 3Portuguese football: Vitória Guimarães v Sporting Lisbon Top-flight action from Portugal. 8pm, BT Sport 2NBA basketball: Cleveland Cavaliers v Indiana Pacers Coverage from the Quicken Loans Arena. 12midnight, BT Sport 1