The problem with the battle against climate change is not that "extremists" in the UK oppose fracking, or even that the government supports it ('Far-left extremists' accused of harming global warming fight, 21 January). The problem is that global greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise.As Caroline Lucas MP points out in your report, "up to 80% of known fossil fuel reserves must remain in the ground if we are to have any hope of avoiding dangerous levels of climate change." But the reality is that they are not going to do so. The world's governments talk about cutting emissions, but in fact they continue to seek economic growth at all costs.We have to accept that the battle to cut greenhouse gas emissions by enough to prevent runaway climate change has been lost. Therefore, the strategy now has to be to deal with the emissions by investing in carbon scrubbing, geoengineering and reforestation. This could be funded by the tens of billions of pounds per year that would be raised if the major nations, including the UK, could agree on a financial transactions tax. Otherwise, we face disaster.Richard MountfordTonbridge, Kent• Lord Deben's plea for a rational debate on tackling climate change isn't particularly helped by his labelling of opponents of fracking as extremists and "close to Trotskyism". Following hard on the heels of David Cameron calling opponents irrational and "religious in their opposition", it seems that there is an orchestrated campaign to pillory anyone who questions the desperate push to expand fracking.The climate change case against greater long-term use of gas is simple. The Committee on Climate Change has set a target for the average emissions from electricity generation to be 50 grammes of CO2 per kilowatt hour by 2030. Gas (from whatever source) produces nearly 10 times that amount.The government and Lord Deben could also listen to those it normally trusts. BP reports that shale gas expansion will not stop a major rise in greenhouse gas emissions and Brewin Dolphin says shale gas will not reduce gas prices (Report, 16 January). So why is the government so obsessed about promoting fracking while simultaneously blocking the setting of a binding EU-wide renewables target which would provide a clear focus for decarbonisation? Is it too much to ask for a grown-up debate, without the brickbats?John RigbyExeter• The appointment of Lord Deben, fracking champion, as chair of the Committee on Climate Change is one in a long line of cynical appointments to ensure that action is given low priority. Climate change sceptic Peter Lilley, vice-chair of an oil and gas company, was appointed in October 2012 to the select committee, following the appointment of Owen Paterson, another climate sceptic, as environment secretary, and John Hayes, who opposes wind farms, as energy minister. Richard Benyon and Lord de Mauley, neither with impressive environmental credentials, to the Department for the Environment. And there are more.This lengthening line of such appointments points up Cameron's lie that his is "the greenest government ever".David MurrayWallington, Surrey• Your article (Big Six energy provider RWE halves investment in renewables, 17 January) paints a distorted picture of investment in the UK. While individual companies may make commercial decisions to reduce their involvement, other companies are lining up to take their place, competing for contracts and helping to renew our energy infrastructure.Since 2010 we have seen record levels of investment: £31bn from private sector companies in UK renewable projects – the most resilient such market in Europe. Over the same period we have nearly doubled the amount of electricity generated from that source. Our Energy Act provides the certainty and political commitment that investors need, which is why Ernst & Young ranks the UK as the fourth best place in the world to invest in renewable energy – and the first for offshore wind.Edward DaveySecretary of state for energy and climate change• According to BP (Report, 16 January), the expected rise in greenhouse gases over the next two decades will put "hopes of curtailing dangerous climate change beyond reach", despite any move from coal to gas. There are two dangers: a temperature rise this century sufficient to ensure widespread crop failures and famine; and ocean acidification so severe as to disrupt the whole marine food chain.So, what can we do to avoid such catastrophes? There is a growing realisation among scientists that the only way is to lower the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in a report recently leaked to Reuters and the New York Times, recognises the possible necessity of carbon dioxide removal (CDR) on a very large scale, tantamount to geoengineering. Fortunately, nature has provided excellent means to do this, using trees, plants and algae. Forests can be managed such that the carbon in the wood is not returned to the atmosphere. Plants can be heated pyrolytically to produce "biochar", a special type of charcoal suitable for soil improvement. And photosynthesising algae can absorb carbon dioxide, purify water and become part of an aquatic food chain. Thus, while we reduce greenhouse gas levels in the atmosphere we can be growing more food.This is a win-win situation. Yet the government has done nothing to promote CDR. The debate over shale gas pales into insignificance.John NissenBath• Did John Gummer really say "All of us who are environmentalists … who are sensible" or are you having a laugh?Marion WorthNewport, Gwent