A protest here, a scuffle there, a bottleneck on Flinders Street, a cheeky alleyway spew. Save for the occasional flare of controversy, Melbourne’s fifth White Night – which opened up the city’s main roads and gardens for light, music, art and half a million pedestrians – largely went off without a hitch.The 12-hour event ran from dusk until dawn on the unseasonably cold weekend but the peak hours were between 9pm and 1am, when enormous crowds pushed shoulder-to-shoulder up and down Swanston Street. White Night Melbourne: activists hijack projection to protest against rough sleeping laws At 11pm, people had been in line for more than an hour to enter the State Library of Victoria’s La Trobe Reading Room, where 360-degree projections had transformed it into a “Seadragon’s Lair”. But as they waited, they came face to face with 50 to 100 protesters who congregated on the lawns outside for a sleep-out against Melbourne’s proposed rough sleeping laws. Their chants were overlaid by the eerie music that swam through the streets, and their message – “#NoHomelessBan”; “Sleeping rough is not a crime” – hijacked the projections that lit up the building’s exterior. All it took to overpower the high tech spectacle was an old Ipson projector, powered by a generator and fed through a laptop.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Protesters out the front of the State Library of Victoria. Photograph: Steph Harmon for the GuardianMany protesting were not homeless, and one homeless man I spoke to was sceptical of them; violence had broken out at a similar protest earlier in February, and he was concerned tonight would meet a similar fate (thankfully it didn’t). I met with one young woman, Bhavani, who was homeless a number of times through school – the longest stretch being for six full months, with her mother and her cat, when she was in year 8. “It’s hard to get back on your feet when you feel the whole world is against you,” she said. “Everyone’s like ‘get a job’ – it’s pretty hard to get a job when you can’t get a good night’s sleep.”In dazzling irony just around the corner, people with homes were lining up for half an hour to stand outside in the cold and be rained on – part of Pierre Ardouvin’s installation Purple Rain. Sleeplessness makes people do strange things, I suppose.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fractured Fairytales, a projection at White Night Melbourne. Photograph: White Night MelbourneArtistic director David Atkins is best known for masterminding the Sydney Olympics’ opening and closing ceremonies – but this was his first White Night. It had been a difficult month for the city: Melbourne’s homeless count has increased 74% in two years and the related proposed bylaw amendments are proving controversial. On 20 January six people were killed after a man allegedly mowed down pedestrians on Bourke Street – a tragedy the festival paid tribute to on screens throughout the city, five minutes before the 12-hour event officially began at 7pm.An hour before it all kicked off, Atkins was drinking a Corona in a bar overlooking the Yarra river. For a man about to stop traffic in the CBD, he seemed surprisingly calm.“I’m getting texts about the tram lines not being shut down in time,” he said. “It’ll be fine. If it’s half an hour late, it’s not the end of the world – we’re there all night. If this were an Olympic ceremony, with a million unilateral broadcasters – when the [show] opens and you’re not ready, you’ve got no choice. You have to start.”The White Night crowds have almost doubled since the global event debuted in Melbourne five years ago, with bottlenecks the chief complaint from the public. “It’s an incredible logistic and operational exercise,” Atkins said. “We’re closing down the city and half a million people plus are moving through it … The thing that I’m most concerned about is crowd control, and managing people’s experience of the space.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As it turned out, expanding the festival through Alexandra and Carlton Gardens had the desired effect, spreading the crowds north and south on Saturday night – and the festival highlights at Museum Plaza, like the Pyrophone Juggernaut and the mesmerising Nebulus, held them away from the city centre. The light show mapped across the vast facade of the Exhibition Building was the standout projection – a sweeping, vivid narrative by Artists in Motion that explored the four stages of sleep, called Rhythms of the Night. Part playful, part creepy, all-consuming – at least one group stood transfixed, watching it loop six or seven times before they moved on.But the best moments were the surprises. Like the toddler dance party that spontaneously erupted at QV Melbourne for Born in a Taxi’s Enlighten; the Secret Life of Statues, which brought a fake kissing booth to Bourke Street that became very, very real as the night progressed; and OK EG’s ambient techno performance inside Collins Street Baptist Church, where stone, water, bells and refracted light were transformed into the most relaxing, hypnotic concert I have ever accidentally fallen asleep to.Then there was the pair of dancers I spotted hoofing it at 2am, outside the 11-hour swing dance marathon on Collins Street. For me this was the best part of White Night.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Melbourne White Night: 86-year-old swing dances with his partnerThere was one venue in Melbourne that had no lines all night: the Salvation Army church on Bourke Street. White Night had collaborated with the organisation in an effort to usher the homeless indoors as their streets were taken over.“In the past, the homeless people have never really been a consideration in terms of the impact on them of an event like this,” Atkins said. “We felt that we needed to do something to give them some respite on the night – no matter what your position is on homelessness, we’re inviting 600,000 people to the city and the impact on them is significant.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inside the Salvation Army HQ in Melbourne, where a 12-hour concert for homeless people was taking place during White Night in Melbourne Photograph: Steph Harmon for the GuardianThere weren’t many in attendence when I visited – up to 40 people at most, and sometimes just 10. Those the Salvos didn’t have a bed for were given yoga mats, water, coffee, food and a free all-night concert, from White Night artists and other musicians who performed at a reduced fee. The sound was wonderful in the church and the intentions good – but after a night of excess through the city streets, the juxtaposition was striking.Outside, a homeless woman finished off a cigarette in the cold night air and asked me, “Are there any more lights?” I pointed her in the direction of the wealthy area South of the Yarra, where part of the multimillion dollar show was taking place. “South of the Yarra?” she asked, brusquely. “I don’t even know where that is.”