I have always considered “tolerance” a highly problematic concept: it is today considered to describe a positive attribute, when in fact it refers to a rather negative one. This ambivalence was succinctly put by Goethe, who, in one of his Maxims and Reflections, stated: “Tolerance should really only be a passing attitude: it should lead to appreciation. To tolerate is to offend.”Why does music give us chills? You asked Google – here’s the answer | David Shariatmadari Merely tolerating someone is ultimately an act of condescension, whereas actual appreciation results in seeing the other as one’s equal. “Diversity”, in turn, is an extension of the principle of appreciation in that it signifies the achievement of equality of opportunity for social, cultural, ethnic, religious or other groups that would otherwise be subject to discrimination.Both concepts could not be more topical in our globalised world, in which states and societies are faced with increasing permeability and fluidity, and the resulting challenges lead to a host of debates and conflicts. It is in this constantly shifting climate of insecurity that states and societies have to deal with the enormous challenge of unprecedented levels of global migration.Precise terminology is important here. Take the usage of the terms “global” and “universal”: while they can often have the same meaning, “universal” has a distinctive additional meaning that is time- and place-independent and categorical: there is a reason we call it the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and not the Global Declaration of Human Rights.It is specifically in the context of immigration that we must reassess and reaffirm our notions of “tolerance” and “diversity”. The philosopher Martin Buber explored the principle of dialogue as a basis of human relations in his seminal work, I and Thou. According to Buber, human beings form their identities chiefly in relation to what surrounds them – other humans and the physical world. Thus, any social construct – be it in a society or between nation states – necessitates dialogue and exchange. Understanding the other – or in Buber’s words, for every “I” to seek reciprocal understanding of the “You” – is therefore the very foundation of humanity.We need to see the other as our equal and fully accept him or her despite perceived weaknesses or differences. This is the real intellectual basis of improving relationships between human beings. It is on this basis too that we can embrace our responsibility of protecting each other’s human rights.With every right we enjoy, there is, however, a set of responsibilities linked to it. The German government has taken on an admirable leadership role in dealing with what has widely been called the “refugee crisis”, yet it is clear this is a universal issue. As is the seemingly unsolvable Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which is not a conflict between two nations but between two peoples who have opposite narrations.Without ever claiming that we can bring about real peace or equality in the world and the Middle East in particular, the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra (named after a collection of Goethe’s poetry) and I have nonetheless striven tirelessly to lead by example. Today’s concert in Geneva to mark Human Rights Day is no exception. In our orchestra, diversity is lived on a daily basis and no single musician can exist without a fundamental understanding and appreciation of the other, however different he or she may be.The sovereign independent republic of the West-Eastern Divan, as I like to call it, began as an unpredictable experiment in 1999. Over the years, it has grown into an example of how society could function under the best of circumstances. Our musicians have gone through the painful process of learning to express themselves while simultaneously listening to the narrative of their counterparts. I cannot imagine a better way of implementing the first and most fundamental article of the UN Declaration of Human Rights: that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, that they are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.From the outset, our approach in the orchestra’s workshops and seminars has been to focus on understanding what it means to listen to each other – both as musicians and as human beings. Learning to listen in that way sensitises us both for ourselves and the world around us.Music, of course, makes this possible because it allows us to think, feel and express different thoughts and emotions simultaneously. Music never only cries or smiles but makes both possible at once. It is a constant, simultaneous conversation between apparent opposites that can peacefully exist side by side. This should be the spirit we carry forward.• Daniel Barenboim and the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra give a concert dedicated to human rights today, 10 December, in Geneva