Ursula Martinez has paraded her nudist parents on stage, introduced audiences to ex-lovers and spent more than 15 years whipping her kit off in various comic burlesque routines. Last time we saw her, naked of course, she turned around and marched off stage, revealing a single scrap of toilet paper stuck between her buttocks. Coy, she is not.On occasion, that openness has attracted criticism. In My Stories, Your Emails, Martinez disclosed the contents of her email inbox after a video of her performing – yes, starkers – wound up online. Reading lewd fanmail and displaying explicit pictures was, some felt, an overshare too far. “Her own intimacies are hers to peddle,” scolded the Financial Times; “other people’s, even if sent to her unsolicited, are not.”Who better, then, to muse on social media and online privacy? And who else would build a brick wall around herself in the process? Martinez took a bricklaying course especially for her new show, Free Admission – something she enjoyed more than she expected. “Saturday mornings in south London, me and 15 other fortysomething, slightly balding, slightly overweight, suburban heterosexual men looking to put a barbie in their back gardens,” she deadpans. “I didn’t have the courage to tell them why I was there.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A breeze … Ursula Martinez in Free Admission.Social media is just one of the subjects up for discussion in what is Martinez’s first full-length solo show in six years. (“When they happen, they happen,” she shrugs.) Also on the agenda are the Spanish civil war, her father’s death, feminism, the ailing health of the NHS and anal hygiene. She saves that one until last, knowing it will land with a jolt.Free Admission grew out of feedback on My Stories, Your Emails. She’d expected the fanmail to go down well, less so her personal anecdotes. “The emails were sensational and provocative. The stories were about presenting the real, vulnerable human.” However, the positive response inspired her to stick with sincerity in Free Admission: “It’s confessional theatre, I guess.” Martinez immediately balks at the term, coughing it up like a hairball. “That’s not a massively sexy genre, is it?”Genre doesn’t really hold Martinez. Her shows are fairly uncategorisable. She is in that sweet spot, alongside artists such as Bryony Kimmings and Kim Noble, where comedy, cabaret and theatre intersect. “I’d still always put it under theatre given the choice. If you call something comedy, there’s too much pressure on the laughter.” The nudity of Hanky Panky isn’t a vulnerable nudity. It’s quite powerfulUrsula Martinez That said, humour’s not an optional extra for her. Free Admission might be “the most overtly political show” she’s made, but it has to hit the funny bone. “If an audience is laughing, they’re with you and, in their laughter, they’re complicit in whatever you’re up to. If they’re laughing with you, you’re not just preaching at them. I don’t ever want to preach.”“I cut my teeth in nightclubs in front of a pissed-up crowd at one in the morning,” she says, by way of an explanation. Born Ursula Lea, she read performance studies at Lancaster – something that shows up in the blurred lines between her offstage self and on-stage persona – and honed her craft at Duckie, the legendary queer club night at the Royal Vauxhall Tavern, London. “Compared with that, black box theatre is a little bit boring, isn’t it?”This was before cabaret’s resurgence – indeed, Duckie was an integral part of that process. “It was a total one-off,” she remembers. “A visceral alternative to over-commodified, over-sanitised entertainment elsewhere, particular on the gay scene. People wanted something real and visceral and unmediated.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Ursula Martinez video, Quick Change, Sex Change. Warning: contains nudity.Martinez duly obliged, swapping her stock of comedy songs for striptease – always subverting the form with outre comedy. Martinez doesn’t peddle shock, but cheek. One routine involved flammable G-string and a cigarette. Another, Quick Change, Sex Change, takes transvestism up to top speed. Then there’s Hanky Panky, a twist on an old magic trick. It’s stripping dictated by sleight of hand. Martinez makes a red handkerchief disappear, pulls it out of an item of clothing, then takes that off. Eventually, completely naked, she repeats the trick, only for the handkerchief to reappear ... well, where do you think?Hanky Panky’s been a calling card throughout her career: five minutes of material that have lasted 17 years. In that time, she’s peeled off her pinstripe pencil skirt thousands and thousands of times. “I love it, but the older I get, the harder it becomes – not to enjoy it, exactly, but to walk out on stage with the eager confidence required to make the act work. It’s understandable, given that the society we live in celebrates youth and beauty so strongly.”The key, she says, is owning the room. “The nudity of Hanky Panky isn’t a vulnerable nudity. It’s quite powerful. I’m gazing at them as much as they’re gazing at me. That shifts the power dynamic and I always ask for the house lights to be turned up a little so I can see people’s faces and look them in the eye.” If you’re going to bare all, it’s worth seeing the reaction.Ursula Martinez: Free Admission is at Soho theatre, London, until 20 February.