With a hard Brexit on the horizon, the arts world is working hard to strengthen its ties with Europe. Over recent years the two-way traffic between the UK and Europe has benefited all involved, not just through the sharing of different aesthetics and ways of working but through the joint exploration of questions about what theatre can be. The results have been invigorating.But at a time when we need to look outwards not inwards, David Hare apparently thinks we need to keep those pesky European directors out and stop them from influencing British theatre culture. A news story in the Observer quoted from an interview in which the playwright claims: “we’re heading in Britain towards an over-aestheticised European theatre. We’ve got all these people called ‘theatre-makers’ – God help us, what a word! – coming in and doing director’s theatre, where you camp up classic plays and you cut them and prune them around.”He continues: “all that directorial stuff that we’ve managed to keep over there on the continent is now coming over and beginning to infect our theatre. And of course if that’s what people want, fine. But I’ll feel less warmth towards the British theatre if that ‘state of the nation’ tradition goes.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sophie Melville in Iphigenia in Splott by Gary Owen. Photograph: National TheatreOf course, Hare is defending his patch as a playwright known for his dissection of the state of the nation. He cites 2009’s Jerusalem by Jez Butterworth as “the last surpassingly successful play in that tradition”, but that is to ignore an entire swath of playwrights who are writing not just state of the nation but state of the world plays. Some of those might use theatrical forms and directorial styles that Hare is less familiar with, but that doesn’t make them any less political or reflective. He need look no further than Gary Owen’s brilliant Iphigenia in Splott, Alexander Zeldin’s Love (currently at Birmingham Rep), Katherine Soper’s Wish List, Owen Sheers’ Pink Mist (at Aberystwyth Arts Centre this week), Scottee’s Putting Words in Your Mouth, Ella Hickson’s Oil and Caryl Churchill’s Escaped Alone. They may be presented on smaller canvases than Hare is used to – he has long had access to big stages – but these plays get to the very core of the nation’s soul and psyche, and they do it without big third-act speeches telling you what to think. There is absolutely no sign that the state of the nation play is in peril. One of the brilliant things about British theatre at the moment is its plurality. There is room for all-comers in terms of form and content. If you want to write plays alone in your garret you can; if you feel happier devising in a room together, that’s possible; if you are looking to see what contemporary theatre can bring to circus and vice versa, nobody is going to say that you can’t; if you want to combine text and dance you can. If state of the nation musicals are your thing, well have a go. The boundaries and boxes have given way to a significantly more fluid and creative theatre culture where the play and the playwright are still highly valued (although seldom highly paid) but it is acknowledged that there are many valid ways to make theatre and deliver classic texts. As the late Adrian Howells – very definitely a theatre-maker – would say: “it’s all allowed.” It is and it’s even better when different sectors come together to celebrate the vibrancy rather than feeling threatened by other forms. All theatre cultures have plenty they can learn from each other. It’s when you stop learning and become insular that theatre culture becomes desiccated and begins repeating itself. Particularly when it comes to classic texts. Hare’s irritation with directors who “camp up classic plays” seems to come from a concern that plays are robbed of something essential when the original cultural context is removed and they are performed in a manner with which we are less familiar or comfortable. But is that true?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lars Eidinger in Thomas Ostermeier’s Richard III. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianOf course, any director, of any nationality, can overlay their concept on to a classic text and twist it to their own purpose, and we’ve all sat through these productions. Or those unconvincing revivals designed with an inch of their life, that are all surface glitter and no content. But there is a vast difference between that kind of self-serving production and the work of directors such as Ivo van Hove, Thomas Ostermeier, Benedict Andrews, Simon Stone, Robert Icke, Ellen McDougall, Katie Mitchell, Rupert Goold and more. They will all produce duds from time to time, but such directors liberate classic plays from their original cultural context and make us see them afresh. This doesn’t diminish the plays; it keeps them alive.Anyone who doubts this should immediately get tickets to see Ostermeier’s Richard III at the Barbican in London next month, Van Hove’s utterly astonishing The Roman Tragedies in March (one of the best Shakespeare productions I’ve ever seen), and the return of Simon Stone’s Yerma at the Young Vic in July. While you are at it, buy a ticket for David so he can start to appreciate how other aesthetics and techniques are having a positive effect on UK theatre-makers (a term that has been around for at least 50 years), and have contributed to a British theatre culture that is far more lively, creative and inventive than the one we had even 20 years ago. 