With grime’s recent and unexpected acceptance into the mainstream, it’s no surprise that stylistic accoutrements and cash-ins followed. In 2017, you can buy T-shirts in H&M with “GRIME” emblazoned on them, catch Ghetts popping up on your Instagram feed in sponsored posts advertising Clarks shoes, or head to Airbnb for a £190, three-day “grime experience” in London with a dedicated tour guide. The moment in Withnail and I when Danny intones sadly, “They’re selling hippy wigs in Woolworths, man,” has arrived for grime, as it does for all genres.One unexpected consequence of this has been an increase in popularity of the video iconography that used to be consigned to cheap-and-cheerful DIY grime DVDs, or the late, lamented UK urban-music station Channel U: a vision of the British capital dominated not by Big Ben and Buckingham Palace, but brutalist tower blocks, chicken shops, off-licences, bus stops and bored teenagers mucking about on council estates. A bit of borrowed urban grit is not a new thing in music videos – think of Aphex Twin (and Chris Cunningham’s) dystopian Thamesmead in Come to Daddy – but tower blocks now seem to be everywhere, often without any obvious reason.They are there in the video for Mura Masa’s first hit from late last year, the wonky electronic pop anthem Love$ick, featuring a star turn from A$AP Rocky. The video tells the story of three teenage boys on a London council estate partying, smoking weed, stealing a pizza delivery bike, letting off fireworks and generally getting up to things they shouldn’t. It was shot in Clapton in north-east London on grainy 35mm – an interesting location, given that Mura Masa is from Guernsey, and A$AP Rocky is from New York.This London is there in the follow-up, too, Mura Masa’s single with Charli XCX, 1 Night: humble lighting, bold colours, and stylish teens mooching around on, yes, a council estate. The video for Dua Lipa’s Blow Your Mind is shot in the Barbican, the same brutalist location used in Skepta’s seminal Shutdown video, perhaps a turning point for grime’s visuals making their way into the mainstream. Mabel’s summery 2016 pop single, Thinking of You, sees flashes of interior colour contrasted with council-block walkways and exterior shots in front of Ernő Goldfinger’s huge grey-yellow Trellick tower. The Trellick is a backdrop in numerous grime videos, along with its partner in east London, the Balfron tower, and the Alexandra Road estate (backdrop for both the 1975’s Somebody Else video last year, and Slewdem Mafia’s Nothing Like Yours).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Balfron tower … ground zero for grime’s visuals. Photograph: AlamyThe grime-video aesthetic has its roots in practicality. When grime started in the early 2000s, it wasn’t really a visual genre: digital cameras had not been widely adopted, smartphones didn’t exist and press interest was limited. The hub for all grime activity was pirate radio, which – being illegal and with the stations constantly having to move location to evade the authorities – was hidden from view by necessity. Roony Keefe, creator of the seminal Risky Roadz DVD series in 2004, and now a music video director and black-cab driver, was working in east London’s legendary Rhythm Division record shop when he had the idea to put some visuals to the sounds coming out of the local pirates.“There weren’t many music videos from grime artists at all back then,” he says. “It was all semi-anonymous. MCs would come into Rhythm Division, and I remember saying quietly to my colleague: ‘Oh, is that so-and-so?’” Keefe borrowed some money from his nan to buy a camcorder, and Risky Roadz was born – he would travel around London to meet MCs in their local area, leading to memorable scenes such as Kano, late at night, wearing a dressing gown and holding a cup of tea, spitting his lyrics a cappella in the street. Or God’s Gift freestyling while sitting on a wall, as children play on bikes and a London bus rolls past in the background.This was partly for convenience, but it worked stylistically, too. Grime isn’t escapist music with an escapist style – it is not about artistic camouflage or fantasy. It is about the very real places it came from: the genre abounds with neighbourhood anthems, from SLK’s North Weezy or Hectic Squad’s What Do You Know About Ips (Ipswich) in the early days, to, more recently, The Square’s Lewisham McDeez or Harlem Spartans’ Kennington Where It Started.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mabel’s Thinking of You. Photograph: Vevo“It’s a DIY style,” Keefe says of the Risky Roadz approach. “It was birthed from wanting to get something done, and making it happen, regardless of budgets or camera quality. We weren’t too worried about the glossy style, we just wanted to show what the scene was about, and show London as we knew it – not just what people think London is, because there are misconceptions that it’s all china teaware and crumpets. There’s a lot more to it than that. Now, the world is finally starting to see what London’s really about, from music.”Keefe is now making music videos for the same artists he originally filmed on the camera his nan loaned him the money for – and is finding there is a real desire to capture grime’s original visual style from the early 2000s, as well as its musical essence. The likes of Kano and Skepta, in going back to their roots with their most recent albums, have been pulling in Keefe to make their music videos look like old-school grime, as well as sound like it.“They have to come on my wave,” Skepta told me in 2015, talking about the sudden interest from US rap stars in grime. “I understand the objective now, and like, I ain’t going to fucking America to shoot a video. They need to come to the roads with me.” This was exactly what happened with the video for It Ain’t Safe, which was shot on location on Meridian Walk, the Tottenham estate Skepta had grown up on. The guest rapper, A$AP Mob’s Young Lord, came to north London, donned a tracksuit and hung out on a London estate. “That video has become kind of iconic,” Keefe recalls. “Skepta wanted it shot on my old Risky Roadz original camera, same with the video for Man. It’s kind of crazy that since those, there has been a resurgence of VHS-looking videos.”“It’s appealing because it is kind of nostalgic. That’s what grime looked like when it started – but then it’s also kind of rebellious because it’s not conforming to this 4K [resolution] gloss. It has a lot more feeling. You can hide behind crazy studio lighting, and a load of gloss or a stage set, but put someone in front of a VHS camera and a standard lens, and you’re going to get something a lot more real.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mura Masa’s Love$ick video. Photograph: VevoKeefe is amused that the style has seeped into the mainstream. It’s a jarring combination when the songs don’t sound grimey, aren’t about London and don’t even try to conjure its atmosphere. “When you put our kind of grimey visuals to a really pop tune, they instantaneously become a little bit rebellious, I think. Because there’s that sense of being in places they shouldn’t be, or maybe there’s a kind of yin and yang to it; polished music and an unpolished backdrop.”A bit of canny juxtaposition can work both ways: Ray BLK’s My Hood is about the Catford she grew up in – “through concrete, flowers grow” she sings. “Top floor of Pepys estate, we’ll show you our world / That building turns you to a woman from a girl”. There’s even a shoutout for Morleys, the fried-chicken chain only found in south London. The video was shot not in Catford, though, but a specially constructed studio set designed to look like a slightly wrong version of “the hood”, mimicking the level of detachment outsiders feel towards less salubrious urban areas. “We decided to make a fake hood, so it was a bit more theatrical,” she said recently. “For people who aren’t from there, it’s almost like a theatre show.” Or a music-video backdrop, she could easily have added.Sarah Boardman at the production company Pulse Films first spotted the romanticising of council estates several years ago. “Nowadays, when it’s a London video, it’s going to be a bit grimey, you’ll have a sort of generic Trellick tower shot – we have seen it so much that on our end, on the directors’ side, we’re very much wary of that now.” Boardman is in no doubt that music videos, like anything else, get swept up by fashion. “With the tower blocks, maybe it’s a generational thing; maybe in 20 years’ time, the next generation will be looking at Canary Wharf and glass towers, thinking: ‘Ah, that’s so cool.’” Boardman adds that it can be hard to divine the creators’ intentions in music videos, unless you want to interrogate the background of everyone involved in making it. “I feel as if it’s often a purely aesthetic choice. Take somewhere like the Barbican; it’s just a really striking backdrop. Cultural appropriation for fashion visuals, with models wearing super expensive high-end clothes, waltzing through council estates, often for luxury fashion brands from overseas with no connection to those areas … I have more of a problem with that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Skepta at the Barbican. Photograph: VevoNevertheless, it’s an opportune moment for brutalist tower blocks such as Trellick and Balfron to be cropping up in mainstream pop videos – the last decade has seen the postwar architectural style become ever more fashionable; you can buy Trellick tower mugs, plates, T-shirts – even a £150 model for your mantelpiece. The absurdity is that this has coincided with a crisis of affordable housing, and waves of gentrification that have meant the very estates being fetishised for their urban edge are more likely to provide the home for an immersive theatrical experience or a supper club, than for the kinds of working-class Londoners who might listen to, or indeed make, grime.Last month, Charlie Clemoes, an associate editor at Failed Architecture, presented a series of videos at the Royal Institute of British Architects making the connection between brutalist estates and grime and rap. “Even going back to earlier in hip-hop, it’s so architectural,” Clemoes says: “It comes from the built environment. I don’t think it’s a superficial thing when these videos look this way. I mean, I think it is a bit fanciful, but you can argue there is a certain brutalist quality to grime as a genre. Like the architecture, it’s very stripped down. It’s saying: we’re not going to embellish or decorate. It’s a very radical gesture in a way.”Skepta review – grime’s top boy Clemoes is ambivalent about the ubiquity of these estates in mainstream pop culture. “I think maybe people like the aesthetic, and also the fact that, whoa, there were these huge social housing blocks that were really respectful of the intellect of the people living there, saying ordinary people deserve this clever stuff. But why is everyone into it now? Is it because we miss something profound about that kind of housing, that collectivity, or is it just kind of proto-ruin ‘porn’, before it has actually become a ruin?”The idea of buildings such as the Trellick tower becoming empty icons of cool, with no consideration of who is (or isn’t) living in them, may seem pretty distasteful. But then music videos didn’t cause the housing crisis. If grime has achieved one thing with its ascension into popular consciousness, maybe it’s that it has made the look of Britain’s urban centres seem worthy of being on camera, and broadcast to the world. And if everyone else wants a piece of that too, well, they can always buy a tea towel.