Ricky Gervais’s fourth stint as Golden Globes host looks likely be his most-watched yet, according to early figures released by the broadcaster NBC. The comedian, returning to the podium after a three-year run of hosting the Globes from 2010 to 2012, drew in a 13.0 rating and a 20 share of metered US households. This is up 3% from 2015, when co-hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler’s 12.6 rating equated to an audience of 19.3 million viewers.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Golden Globes 2016: Ricky Gervais skewers Hollywood in opening monologueGervais was asked back to the 73rd annual Globes despite, or maybe because of, his line of celebrity-baiting material. This year his targets included Caitlyn Jenner, Jennifer Lawrence and, once again, the ceremony’s organisers, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. He opened by calling the audience “disgusting, pill-popping, sexual deviant scum”, then went on to ridicule the Globes’ broadcaster (“the only network with zero nominations”), the HFPA’s president, Lorenzo Soria (“the Golden Globes doesn’t have an ‘in memoriam’ section to get you all depressed, instead we let the president say a few words”), and the awards themselves.“That award is – no offence – worthless,” Gervais said, before describing what he had done with the three Globes he has won. “One’s a doorstop, one’s to hit burglars with and one I keep by the bed to ... it’s just the right shape and size,” he said. “To be clear, that was a joke about me shoving Golden Globes up my arse. And they asked me to host four times!”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Golden Globes 2016: Jennifer Lawrence ticks off reporter for using his phoneGervais’s performance in the three-hour show has met with mixed reviews from critics. The New York Times praised his “satirically-pointed” jokes, but wondered if the host didn’t risk becoming a “Ricky Gervais tribute band dutifully smashing his guitar on cue”. Time was less impressed: “He was telling viewers at home they were stupid even to be watching”, while Deadline too got bored of his snarky schtick. “A screechy old saw to play, and the audience was having none of it,” it wrote. The comedian was not worried about the prospect of once again upsetting people with his humour. “Can’t wait for people to start reporting that I offended some people at the Golden Globes,” he tweeted. “Of course I fucking did.”