The idea of the music video becoming a dying art can get on the next Backstreet Boys private jet out of here if the excellent MTV’s Videohead (iTunes) is anything to go by.Hosted by Daniel Ralston, it is just a few episodes old, but it has already produced some fascinating tales from the frontline of pop. Fortunately, Ralston is a fan of letting his subjects talk, but he is an efficient interviewer. This is no rambling podcast, but a slick chat with a diverse selection of video-makers.Flick back to episode one for an interview with Jonas Akerlund, the daddy of directors, who started out making videos for Roxette and went on to hatch the Prodigy’s Smack My Bitch Up, which took his career to the next level. He is immensely likable and modest as he explains how he at first said no to the Prodigy because he couldn’t think of an idea. One big night out in Copenhagen later and he came up with the concept for the censor-bothering clip.Madonna rejected his treatment for Ray of Light “four or five times”, and he initially hated the final video as it felt too simple. “I worked with a lot of strong women and they made me very strong,” he says, tactfully. “For me, meeting Lady Gaga and starting to work with her was just like a fuel injection. I came in with fresh new energy and wanted to use every tool in the box.”Listening to the directors talk is so good it makes you want to go back and watch their videos all over again. The more ethereal Matthew Rolston, who has worked with Foo Fighters and TLC, as well as making Salt-N-Pepa’s Whatta Man video, is a different kind of delight. His ideas come in the middle of the night while he is meditating in his bathroom. Talking about his work with Morrissey on Alma Matters, he doesn’t mince words. “If I had to make a movie with Morrissey for three months, I’d probably just go quietly into a room and stab my eyes out with knitting needles,” he says. “But for a day or two with him hiding in the dressing room and crying and carrying on … it didn’t bother me one little bit.”If you like this, try … Song Exploder, a deep dive into tunes.