For a short, terrifying moment, I’m convinced that Human Nature have presented themselves for interview in matching outfits. The first two men who introduce themselves are wearing near-identical blue dinner jackets and the prospect of interviewing Australia’s quintessential harmony pop group in identical formalwear is briefly overwhelming.Thankfully, the wardrobe coordination is coincidental; telling them apart is hard enough as it is. All four hairdos are perfectly coiffed; all four sets of teeth are paper white and spirit-level straight. Even the creases on the rolled-up shirt sleeves seem somehow pre-prepared. It makes it a bit tricky to get all of their names right, at least until I can pin down some identifiers. Phil Burton is the tall one with a small gap in his front teeth. Toby Allen is the one with the eyebrow ring. Complicating matters is the pair of brothers, Mike and Andrew Tierney, who look so similar that I momentarily despair. Eventually I seize on the fact that Mike is a head shorter than everyone else. Andrew is the one left over.The four of them are holed up in the penthouse suite of Sydney’s Darling hotel in Pyrmont doing press for their new covers album, Gimme Some Lovin’: Jukebox Vol II. The Darling is a resident five-star hotel of the sprawling Star casino complex, where the group are performing the first Australian show of the album tour.Human Nature are no strangers to venues like this; it’s in casinos where, largely out of the Australian eye, they’ve found the career durability and coveted US platform that evades even the most successful homegrown outfits.Although they didn’t release their debut album until 1996, Human Nature formed as the 4 Trax in 1989, awarding them the tentative title of Australia’s first boy band. But, for domestic audiences, their peak came in the 1990s, when they were among the first of a global phenomenon of all-male vocal pop groups that would include the Backstreet Boys, Take That, NSYNC and Boyzone.They had a string of syrupy, extremely 90s hits such as Got it Goin’ On, Tellin’ Everybody and a cover of the Bangles’ Eternal Flame. There were multiple-platinum selling records, support tours with Michael Jackson and Celine Dion, and collaborations with John Farnham and Take That’s Gary Barlow.They had film clips like this:   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest By the mid-2000s things were decidedly quieter: greatest hits albums, periodic appearances on reality TV shows, national anthem renditions at the State of Origin. But, instead of sinking into the comfortable post-fame twilight many once acclaimed Australian acts now dwell in, one of the world’s first boy bands found a new lease on life: performing Motown covers in Las Vegas casinos.2005’s Reach Out: The Motown Record won Human Nature their first Aria and 15 nominations, and sales for their covers far outstripped those of the boy band years. Two follow-up albums in the same vein had further success and invited collaborations with the likes of Martha Reeves and Smokey Robinson, the frontman of the seminal Motown group the Miracles.How we made Motown The idea of a boy band who used to film their lo-fi music videos in Sydney’s The Rocks now spending their days singing Heard it Through The Grapevine to rooms full of middle-aged Americans gambling away their retirement savings is an eyebrow-raising one. The idea of four (very) white guys from western Sydney making a career from a genre of music inextricably tied to the black American experience and the civil rights movement is another matter altogether. The group acknowledge that their choice of source material has the capacity to “incense people” but maintain that they treat the music in its original spirit: as songs to be enjoyed by everybody.“We were worried that the original artists themselves might not like what we were doing with Motown but then we met people like Mary Wilson and the Temptations, and all of them have said that they really enjoy what we do,” Burton says. “Funnily enough, the anger seemed to come more from Australian music critics than anywhere else, which was a bit weird.“One night at the Imperial, Smokey [Robinson] brought Berry Gordy [founder of Motown records] along and the two of them were sitting in the audience. Berry once sat down and said, ‘We’re not making music just for black people. We’re making music for everybody.’ It was a bizarre experience for us and for them. This music’s come back to them from four white guys on the other side of the world. That’s kind of the fruition of a dream that Smokey and others had when they started.” Twenty-seven years since they first formed, Human Nature have parlayed that unlikely career turn into their current incarnation. The band have been a Vegas fixture for the past seven years, beginning a three-year residency at the Imperial Palace casino (now the Linq) in 2009 before moving to the Venetian at the start of 2013.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Embodying the 90s: Human Nature.Living and working in a gambling town where most people go for a weekend at most has a surreal, two-sided quality to it. Human Nature’s days now regularly veer between the lights and glamour of the Las Vegas Strip and the humdrum life of four shift workers who are raising kids on the city’s fringes. “It’s like living in the suburbs of Sydney,” Allen says. “We work on the Strip, so we drive in every day to do the show and then we go home again.”The Venetian residency itself has that same strange mix of the high end and the mundane. Scoring a regular spot on the Strip puts Human Nature in a select and legendary pedigree: Elton John, Jennifer Lopez and Mariah Carey all have current residencies at Vegas casinos. But the life of a band in residency is very different to that of one on tour. Shows begin promptly at 7pm each night and run for 90 minutes sharp, no exceptions. It’s regular, steady work as opposed to a series of one-off gigs – with all the repetitiveness that implies. All up, Allen estimates, they’ve played “close to 1,400 shows” in Vegas since 2009, with about 250 shows for each of the first two years when they would play six, not five, nights a week.“It’s not that you hate doing it,” Burton says. “It’s just that, you know, five nights a week you get a little tired and you’d rather sit on the couch and watch American Ninja Warrior.”Happily, the arrangement is well suited to the needs of four family men in their 40s. “We’re home by 10, most nights,” Burton says. “When we first started in Vegas we used to treat it more like a tour, go out and get on the drink, but seven years in we treat it a bit more respectfully. Us with families there, you just need that time away, or else it would be like a madhouse.”Besides building their profile outside of Vegas, going on tour allows the band to break out of the Vegas bubble somewhat. The importance of doing that is brought home by their slightly rose-coloured view of Sydney after such a long time away.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We’re home by 10, most nights’: Toby Allen, Andrew Tierney, Phil Burton and Mike Tierney of Human Nature.“Here in Sydney the public transport is really good – in Vegas it’s absolute shit,” Burton says, clearly having not experienced Australian public transport in a great while. “There’s buses and taxis and that’s it. There’s no trains.“Coming back to Sydney, I had this romantic notion of the monorail,” Andrew Tierney says. “Seeing all the monorail stations down …” He trails off and looks out the window. A lot has changed since the band landed in Vegas and outside the immense Barangaroo project of the Star’s main rival, James Packer, is growing into the sky. Once it’s finished, Human Nature may well have another casino to call home. • Gimme Some Lovin’: Jukebox Vol II is out now through Sony; Human Nature’s Australian tour kicks off in Geelong on 2 February