Who described being sick in the loo at a party hosted by Björk?   Björk    Amy Schumer    Karl Ove Knausgaard In Some Rain Must Fall Who could be heard reciting an ode to a tampon one Sunday teatime on Radio 4?   Sharon Olds On R4’s The Echo Chamber    Nicki Minaj    Wendy Cope (in character as Jancis Strugnell) Pro-Brexit bookworm Michael Gove said his pro-remain opponents’ depiction of life outside the EU had been scripted by ... ?   Stephen King and George RR Martin    Mary Shelley and Bram Stoker    George Orwell and JG Ballard There were significant anniversaries for all these authors in 2016, but only one of them had a novel adapted into a high-profile film or TV drama – which?   Henry James    Anthony Trollope Trollope's book Doctor Thorne    Charlotte Brontë Which of these did not happen in 2016?   News that Gwyneth Paltrow is to direct a film of The Bell Jar Kirsten Dunst, not Paltrow, is directing The Bell Jar    An album of Shakespeare’s sonnets by a leading singer-songwriter    A lavish ITV adaptation of Beowulf for Sunday evenings And which of the following is untrue?   The marijuana left behind by the late Hunter S Thompson is to be cloned and sold as Gonzo weed    What was a DH Lawrence museum is set to become a tanning salon    "LS Hilton", author of steamy art world bonkbuster Maestra, was unmasked as a leading gallery owner LS Hilton is the historian Lisa Hilton Who was the bête noire attacked in Tom Wolfe’s book The Kingdom of Speech?   TS Eliot    Steven Pinker    Noam Chomsky All drew on the Bard in his quatercentenary year, but which was the odd one out?   Javier Marias’s Thus Bad Begins Marias’s novel is not part of Hogarth’s Shakespeare Project     Anne Tyler’s Vinegar Girl    Jeanette Winterson’s The Gap of Time Who was lined up to play a prominent role in Shakespeare’s 400th anniversary festivities but failed to do so?   Benedict Cumberbatch    Boris Johnson Johnson’s book on the Bard, scheduled for the autumn, was shelved    Russell T Davies In terms of their titles, whose 2016 novel was the exception?   Ian McEwan’s    Margaret Atwood’s    Don DeLillo’s Only DeLillo’s Zero K has a title longer than a single word  Who said: “I think the public has had enough of experts.”   Stephen Hawking    Michael Gove    Donald Trump Who said: "I do think it’s a different world today and I don’t think we should be nation-building any more. I think it’s proven not to work."   Bernie Sanders    Noam Chomsky    Donald Trump Who said: "If you think you are a citizen of the world, you are a citizen of nowhere."    Theresa May    Marine Le Pen    Donald Trump Who said: “Cyber physical systems and smart factories.”   William Gibson    Jeremy Corbyn    Donald Trump Who said: “When people feel they’ve been shafted and they don’t expect anything to happen anyway, they just want the maddest person in the room to represent them.”   Bill Clinton    Jon Stewart    Donald Trump Who said: “Boris and Nigel are definite tossers.”   Cher    Katy Perry    Donald Trump Who said: “I want my life back.”    Nigel Farage    Julian Assange    Donald Trump Who said: “If that motherfucker becomes president, I will move my black ass to South Africa.”    Beyoncé    Samuel L Jackson    Donald Trump Who said: "It’s hard to believe… amazing, incredible. Whoever dreams about something like that?"   Bob Dylan    Laura Trott    Donald Trump Who said: “A holistic education that includes literature and the arts is critical to creating good citizens.”    Zadie Smith    Hilary Mantel    Donald Trump You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers