1 The Scottish EndarkenmentThis rollicking celebration of perversity and horror in modern Scottish art is packed with uneasy images and uncanny objects. Christine Borland’s video of a robot baby designed for medical training evokes both maternal anxiety and technophobia in its eerie imitation of life. Douglas Gordon’s Jekyll and Hyde self-portrait exposes the monster in us all. Spooky paintings by the likes of Alison Watt and Ken Currie complete a brilliantly subversive survey of Scottish art since 1945.Dovecot Gallery, Edinburgh, to 29th Aug2 Jonathan Owen      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jonathan Owen’s Untitled, 2016. Photograph: Courtesy the Artist and Ingleby GalleryThere’s something truly shocking about Owen’s assaults on statues. For one thing he damages real 19th-century classical sculptures that he buys at Christie’s. He then sets out to expose macabre and guilty secrets within. Heads and throats disappear to reveal massive marble chains. The injustices of patriarchy haunt these statues of women. Yet Owen’s art is not some dry political rant – he is a 21st-century surrealist revealing phantoms, nightmares and cruelty hidden in the marble shell of the beautiful.Burns Monument & Ingleby Gallery, Edinburgh, to 28 Aug3 Mark Wallinger      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Wallinger’s Self Reflection. Photograph: Courtesy of the artist/Freud MusuemA giant mirror covers the entire ceiling of Sigmund Freud’s study and offers an opportunity to literally “reflect” on yourself in Wallinger’s installation celebrating this terrific museum’s 30th anniversary. Freud was fascinated by art and his own collection fills the home he occupied at the very end of his life after fleeing Nazi Vienna, so the museum’s programme of contemporary art fits it well. Wallinger’s recent work meditates on the divided self diagnosed by psychoanalysis. It’s an artistic marriage made in heaven, or at least on Freud’s couch.Freud Museum, NW3, to 25 Sep4 Leonardo da Vinci      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leonardo da Vinci’s Aerial Screw Photograph: Alessandro Nassiri/Science MuseumThere are no original works of art by the great Renaissance man in this exhibition, yet it still manages to be utterly absorbing. This is an encounter with the mind of a genius. It explores Leonardo’s inventions and scientific researches through models and digital interaction and is fun and insightful for children and adults alike.Science Museum, SW7, to 4 Sep5 Alex Katz      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alex Katz’s painting Photograph: Tristan Fewings/GettyPainting is a walk in the park for this American master – or at least he makes it look that easy – so Kensington Gardens makes a lovely setting for his beautifully simple summing-up of life. Katz does not stylise his subjects; he just reveals their essence. Portraiture and landscape are reborn as utterly modern and laconically precise registrations of reality.Serpentine Gallery, W2, to 11 Sep