Earlier this week, at the Critics’ Circle theatre awards, Charlene James was named most promising playwright for Cuttin’ It, her devastating drama about female genital mutilation. But before it made it on to the stage, James’s play was heard on radio. It was a winner at the 2016 BBC Audio drama awards. The two-way traffic between radio and theatre has always been fruitful. Lee Hall first came to wider attention with Spoonface Steinberg , his 1997 radio play about a dying autistic child. Legend has it the drama caused lorry drivers to park up when it was first broadcast because they couldn’t see through their tears. I recently had a similar experience. I hadn’t managed to see FYSA’s touring show The 56, a testimony play about the deaths caused by the Bradford City football stadium fire of 1985. Then it popped up on Radio 4 and proved to be quite extraordinary. I had to pull into a motorway service station to listen to the last 15 minutes.Last weekend the BBC announced the winners of this year’s Audio drama awards, and the list confirms how much radio drama and theatre need each other. Many a playwright has relied upon a Radio 4 commission but it’s not just about the money, it’s about ambition and scope too. For financial reasons alone, no theatre could have conceived the remarkable Blood, Sex and Money (winner of best adapted drama). It’s a rich and vivid version of Émile Zola’s Rougon-Macquart novels set during the dying days of France’s Second Empire and told through the eyes of the 104-year-old Dide, played by Glenda Jackson in a performance that marked her return to acting before she played King Lear at the Old Vic last year. Following several generations of the same family, the stories curl around each other. It is a unified series with the broadest sweep, but what makes it fascinating is the way the distinctive voice of each of the many playwrights involved including Dan Rebellato, Oliver Emanuel, Lavinia Murray and others still shines through.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glenda Jackson returned to acting on radio before the stage. Photograph: SilverHub/Rex/ShutterstockThere was a time when BBC radio drama suffered from a lack of both range and quality and seemed to default to the cosy as if somebody at the BBC imagined all of them as being primarily designed to accompany an afternoon of ironing. But who irons nowadays? Not me, and a new generation of writers are delivering scripts that are as sharply contemporary as anything that theatre can deliver. Al Smith (best known to theatregoers for Harrogate and Diary of a Madman) was a winner for his mini-series of bite-sized dramas, Life Lines, following the lives of those working in an ambulance control centre. The 15-minute format works well on radio and I caught quite a lot of them when they were first broadcast. A canny mix of soap opera and drama, they give voice to the pressures faced by the NHS.James Fritz is already familiar to theatregoers for his Edinburgh hit Ross and Rachel, and the slippery Four Minutes Twelve Seconds. His drama Comment is Free, winner of best radio script by a new writer, has a similar shifting sense of perspective, sympathies and moral certainties as it follows a columnist caught up in a social media storm. It’s clever stuff and is available on iPlayer until the end of February.While I recognised its ambition, I wasn’t a big fan of Linda Marshall Griffiths’ sci-fi version of Charlotte Bronte’s Villette at West Yorkshire Playhouse last year. But her radio play The Sky is Wider (winner of best single original drama), focusing on a woman in a minimally conscious state, got right inside the character’s head. And mine. It makes me lick my lips at the prospect of her next stage play. 