Let’s start with some good news. Wilmar International, the largest palm oil trader in the world, recently committed not to engage in deforestation. A year on from announcing the policy, the Singapore-based agribusiness was lauded in a report on deforestation-free supply chains (pdf) by the pro-transparency organisation CDP.On the face of it, the praise appears merited. Wilmar’s new policy (which also includes a ban on developing palm on peat areas) stands to save more than 1.5 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide by 2020 – equivalent to the combined annual energy-related carbon emissions of Central and South America.Palm oil risk to Africa as prospectors eye swaths of land That’s all supposing the company can deliver, of course. So can it? On its wholly owned, directly managed palm plantations, meeting its pledge should be straightforward. The real challenge arises with the franchised or independent smallholder farmers from whom Wilmar buys around one third of its raw supply.Often farming in remote areas and with little regulatory oversight, smallholders are far more likely to engage in “slash-and-burn” forest clearance, excessive chemical use and other environmentally unsustainable agricultural practices. “Smallholders lack capacity [and] they are people who often don’t have choice,” says Simon Siburat, Wilmar’s group sustainability controller. “And they don’t really see the need to be certified,” he says.It’s not just a problem for Wilmar. An estimated two-fifths of the world’s palm oil derives from plantations of fewer than 50 hectares, the general marker for a smallholding. Without the engagement of these farmers, palm oil will never be able to shake off its reputation as environmentally destructive.Schemes to help smallholdersEfforts are under way to bring smallholders into the sustainability fold. The multi-sector Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), for instance, runs a fund to reimburse the cost for groups of smallholders to become certified. The fund receives 10% of the income generated from certified palm oil sold on dedicated trading platforms, plus half of RSPO’s end-of-year surplus. At the end of the last financial year,the fund had reached $3.6m (£2.4m).Individual businesses are also instituting their own pilot schemes. Cargill provides an illustrative case. The US commodity trader has embarked on a three-year initiative with Dutch development agency Solidaridad and Malaysian environment group Wild Asia. Their goal is to train 2,900 smallholders in sustainable agricultural management techniques. Wilmar is involved in a number of similar small-scale projects. In Malaysia, for instance, it has partnered with the Wild Asia Group Scheme to certify smallholders covering a 414 hectare area. As with Cargill’s project, the scheme encourages smallholders to form co-operatives, facilitating the transfer of knowledge as well as strengthening their negotiating power with buyers.Progress is slow, however. According to Wild Asia, the area cultivated by independent smallholders extends to around 600,000 hectares. More than halfway into the Port Klang pilot, meanwhile, only 34 small farmers have achieved certification.Traceability a big barrierThe challenges are multiple. Traceability is arguably the biggest hurdle. Only a minority of smallholders have contracts with processing mills; most don’t, making it difficult for mill owners to trace them. To complicate matters, the middlemen who buy from these so-called “independent” smallholders like to keep the supply chain murky. If they reveal their suppliers’ details they risk losing them to competitors.“Even if you want to help these smallholders who have few financial resources, you often don’t know where they are, which is a nonsense,” says Annisa Rahmawati, forest campaigner for Greenpeace Southeast Asia. If and when mill owners locate the smallholders operating in their territories, their influence over them remains minimal. Without a contractual relationship, independent smallholders can sell to a rival mill if they choose.10 things you need to know about sustainable palm oil As for the smallholders themselves, the commercial case for certification isn’t always self-evident. “It’s not clear what’s in it for them,” says Marieke Leegwater, coordinator of Solidaridad’s palm oil programme. Sustainable practices can deliver yield improvements, but often “not for two or three years”. Nor do smallholders always pocket a premium for their certified produce, either because the end-buyer pays the standard market price or because mills pocket the extra.Connecting buyers with smallholdersPossible solutions exist. One idea would be for mills to introduce some form of “loyalty scheme”, Leegwater says. The approach would see smallholders receive incentives, such as an end-of-year bonus or subsidised prices for inputs if they sell regularly to the same mill. At the same time, the potential of mills to work over the longer term with smallholders towards certification would be increased.Another clear signal to smallholders would be for large buyers to club together regionally and commit only to purchasing certified produce. The Sustainable Palm Oil Manifesto, which counts Cargill, Sime Darby and several other big industry players among its signatories, could feasibly edge the industry in that direction. Likewise, the RSPO’s GreenPalm scheme, which allows buyers to purchase certificates for smallholder-produced certified palm oil in lieu of physical palm oil, marks another initial attempt.Ideally, Wilmar’s Siburat would like to see buyers dealing face-to-face with smallholders. That way, a long-term, traceable relationship can be established. “It’s all about connecting the end-buyer,” he says. “It [sustainability] is a challenging journey for smallholders, so they must be able to see a carrot at the end of it.”Why does palm oil still dominate the supermarket shelves? The palm oil debate is funded by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox.