BBC: The Secret Files9pm, BBC4Despite what you might conclude from Can’t Touch This, BBC programmes aren’t just thrown on air. A clutch of correspondence accompanies every programme, and a trawl through those archives is presented here by Penelope Keith. Original writings uncovered reveal a war of words between founder John Reith and Winston Churchill, the clamour for a female-focused radio show (presented with depressing inevitability by a man), and the steps taken to placate a neurotic Tony Hancock during his BBC tenure. Enlightening. Mark Gibbings-JonesMasterChef8pm, BBC1The last five amateur cooks tiptoe through the swing doors, almost in tears before they start, eager to win a quarter-final spot. As always, the sport is in guessing which cuisine each stranger will attempt: a rugger-ish recruitment manager and an angular medical student don’t disappoint. There’s more people-watching potential in the judging of the final task, performed by the 2014 finalists, who share a fascinating group dynamic. But tonight’s big mystery is simply this: how do you say “fondant”? Jack SealeJungle Animal Hospital: Natural World8pm, BBC2In the Guatemalan jungle, life can be hard for the native wildlife threatened by the exotic pet trade and encroaching agriculture. In this show, we watch as vets try to balance care-giving with maintaining the animals’ independence. We watch over the imperilled scarlet macaw and a spider monkey that receives a teddy bear “surrogate mum”. It’s interesting to note that the people who work in such places describe their job as“very cool”, much like you or I would do. John RobinsonLine of Duty9pm, BBC2Even by the standards of a crime drama where the narrative structure relies upon stories within stories, the third series of Line of Duty is remarkably self-referential. Here, that means getting reacquainted with slippery copper Nigel Morton (Neil Morrissey), now working in Crime Audit and awaiting retirement. Elsewhere, Arnott’s stock falls over his involvement with Lindsay Denton, and the shadowy figure of “The Caddy” – a corrupt detective embedded in the force – occupies the attention of senior officers. Jonathan WrightA Girl in the River: the Price of Forgiveness9pm, Sky Atlantic      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An enthralling study … A Girl in the River: the Price of Forgiveness. Photograph: HBOThis Oscar-winning doc by Pakistani film-maker Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy tells the story of a teenage girl who survived an attempted “honour” killing for marrying the wrong man. About 1,000 women are killed this way each year in Pakistan. Those who survive their ordeal — which might involve stoning or shooting — are pressured by elders to forgive their attackers. This young woman, however, is not in a forgiving mood. An enthralling study of an appalling practice. David StubbsFILM CHOICEZombieland(Ruben Fleischer, 2009) 9pm, Film4A particularly ridiculous and enjoyable zombie-fest. They seem to have eaten everyone in the US, apart from nerdy student Jesse Eisenberg, two female con-chicks (Emma Stone and Abigail Breslin, her 12-year-old sister) and Woody Harrelson’s jaw-dropping redneck Tallahassee, a one-man scourge of the undead. With Bill Murray popping up as himself, there is almost as much fun as gore here.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Powerhouse performance … Filth. Photograph: Neil DavidsonFilth(Jon S Baird, 2013) 10.40pm, Film4James McAvoy is a very bad cop indeed in Baird’s relentlessly grimy, brutal screen adaptation of Irvine Welsh’s misanthropic novel. McAvoy’s coke-, booze- and sex-addled DS Bruce Robertson is trying to lie and cheat his way up the Edinburgh rozzers’ career ladder. It’s a powerhouse performance and there’s sterling support from the likes of Eddie Marsan and Shirley Henderson but, lacking the warmth and humour of, say, Trainspotting, it’s a gruelling experience.Today’s best live sport• IPL Cricket: Gujarat Lions v Rising Pune Supergiants Action from Rajkot as the moneyed Indian tournament continues. 3pm, Sky Sports 2• Europa League Football: Liverpool v Borussia Dortmund Jürgen Klopp welcomes his old team to Anfield. 7pm, BT Sport Europe• Super League Rugby: St Helens v Catalan Dragons The top-flight rugby league clash at Langtree Park. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2• PGA Tour Golf: The RBC Heritage The opening day from South Carolina. 8pm, Sky Sports 4