Mr Robot remains a mystery hidden inside a bit of HTML code disguised as the most addictive show on TV. After a slow, character-focused start, season two has tipped us right into the deep end of wild speculation as we approach the finale. We don’t trust what we see on screen, and at this point we’re not even sure who’s alive and who’s dead. Here are the questions we desperately need the finale to answer, before we start attempting to hack into Amazon and USA Network’s mainframe.Did Darlene and Cisco survive the shootout in the diner?Dom was covered in blood when she ran out, so someone got shot – but who? And what was Dom saying to them before the shooting? We wouldn’t be surprised if the finale opened with the diner scene retold from another angle.Mr Robot recap: season two, episode 10 – pass the smelling salts! What clue was in Elliot’s apartment?The bold and brilliant scene in which Elliot asked us to help him find an Easter egg hidden in his apartment wasn’t just an enjoyably meta comment on how Mr Robot turns its viewers into conspiracy theorists – it was also a chance to actually solve many of the show’s biggest mysteries. Of course, we failed miserably. If you had more luck, please give us your theories in the comments.Why has Mr Robot vanished?The show has a habit of throwing in one twist to obscure another. This time it seems like the prison twist might have been used to hide Mr Robot’s true intentions from us. What is he hiding from us (and Elliot)? Why has he been cultivating Elliot’s trust throughout this season? Is he trying to take over?Is Tyrell Wellick really dead – and if he is, who’s making those phone calls?Ever since Mr Robot told Elliot that he shot Tyrell Wellick – “shot”, not killed – most of the internet has been more convinced than ever that Wellick is alive.Now Elliot has tracked the location of the phone that Joanna Wellick’s mysterious calls were coming from, but Joanna’s bodyguard is convinced that the calls couldn’t have come from that address. So what is that address? Is it Joanna’s home, and we’re in a “the call’s coming from inside the house!” situation? Or is it the address of another character we know?And if it’s not Tyrell on the other end of that phone, then who would benefit from tormenting Joanna with those phone calls? Was her lover (who seems to have been entirely forgotten) involved?What happened to Trenton and Mobley?The FBI don’t have them – Dom confirmed in this episode that they lost Sunil Markesh, which is Mobley’s real name. Does the Dark Army have them or did they get away?What is phase two?We know it’s Elliot’s plan, but beyond that – not a clue. We know that Elliot is important to the Dark Army – they had Leon protect him in prison, after all – but we don’t know why. What can Elliot offer them that they can’t do themselves? Does it have something to do with the Washington Township plant? Speaking of which …Why is the Washington Township plant so important to Whiterose and Phillip Price?And is it important to the Chinese government or the Dark Army, both of which Whiterose represents? Price is willing to give China the Democratic Republic of Congo just to keep that plant going. It’s obviously hugely important. Why it’s important, though, is still a mystery.Who were those people who intercepted Angela on the Subway?Were they police/FBI catching up to her, as Dom warned her they would? Were they E Corp people, arriving to plug the leak (presumably they know by now that she tried to blow the whistle)? Or were they Dark Army thugs, keen to make sure she doesn’t confess and potentially incriminate anyone else?Who killed Romero? This is the mystery that kicked off season two: it sent fsociety into a panic, and it put Dom on their heels. But was he really killed by the Dark Army, considering that we now know that they were actively protecting Elliot in prison? Could Romero’s death be entirely unrelated to hacking? He was a drug dealer too – that could have been the reason he was killed. Or maybe it was something Mr Robot (or Tyrell Wellick) did in those missing three days?Might Dom work with fsociety to hook an even bigger fish?She’s had two shootouts with the Dark Army henchmen, and one lengthy bonding session with Whiterose. She didn’t realise she was talking to Whiterose, but “Minister Zheng” certainly gave away enough to raise her suspicions.IS ANY OF THIS REAL?!? As always with Mr Robot, it’s best to take what you see with a hefty pinch of paranoia. Season two could end with the most annoying unsatisfactory “it was all a dream” ending since Once Upon a Time in America.