Exploitation legend and “godfather of gore” Herschell Gordon Lewis has died aged 90. His longtime distributors Something Weird Video (named after Lewis’ 1967 feature) broke the news in a Facebook post. With his 1963 film Blood Feast, Lewis is widely credited with pioneering the splatter genre, despite it being considered “an insult even to the most puerile and salacious of audiences” in a Variety review. A later critique described it as “one of the important releases in film history, ushering in a new acceptance of explicit violence that was obviously just waiting to be exploited”.Born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1926, Lewis studied journalism in college and became a professor of English literature at Mississippi State University. After a spell working at a radio station in Oklahoma, he joined an advertising agency in Chicago, where he made TV commercials in the 50s. With producer David Friedman, Lewis embarked on a string of then-shocking features, which were made for minimal costs and found a ready audience in what would become known as the grindhouse circuit.Initially concentrating on the “nudie-cutie” world of low-budget sex films (such as The Adventures of Lucky Pierre and Boin-n-g), Lewis made his mark with cinematic violence in the mid-60s with Blood Feast, Two Thousand Maniacs! and Color Me Blood Red. Though regularly accused of technical ineptitude and outrageous taste, the films made money, and Lewis continued to push the envelope through the late 60s and early 70s. Like his contemporary Roger Corman, Lewis’ work was seen as a subversive force as the counter-culture gathered steam.However, Lewis decided to retire from film-making in the early 70s, after realising his style of low-budget horror had run its course, and returned to advertising. He published a stream of marketing guides, including titles such as How to Make Your Advertising Twice As Effective at Half the Cost and Sales Letters That Sizzle: All the Hooks, Lines and Sinkers You’ll Ever Need to Close Sales.Lewis returned to film-making in 2002 with Blood Feast 2: All U Can Eat, which premiered at the Dead by Dawn horror film festival in Edinburgh.•This article was amended on 30 September 2016, to correct Lewis’ date of birth and age.