The Merchant of VeniceShakespeare dominates Welsh National Opera’s autumn season. There’s a revival of the company’s production of Verdi’s Macbeth, and a new production of Kiss Me Kate!, Cole Porter’s take on The Taming of the Shrew. Between them comes the British premiere of pianist and composer André Tchaikowsky’s only opera. The Merchant of Venice was first performed at the 2013 Bregenz festival, more than 30 years after Tchaikowsky’s death, and it’s that staging, directed by Keith Warner, which now comes to Britain. • Wales Millennium Centre, Cardiff, 16-30 September, then touring to 22 November.The Schumann Project      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest After the success last year of its complete survey of Schubert’s songs, the Oxford Lieder festival sets itself a slightly less daunting challenge this time, turning its attention to Schumann’s output. Once again, the target is completeness, and the festival has assembled a mouth-watering lineup of singers to work their way through Schumann’s vocal oeuvre. Baritone Christian Gerhaher gives the opening recital; later on there are appearances by sopranos Juliane Banse and Christiane Karg, tenors Christoph Prégardien and Mark Padmore, and many more.• Holywell Music Room and other venues, Oxford, 14-29 October.The NoseBarrie Kosky has regularly been tipped as a candidate to follow Kasper Holten as artistic director of the Royal Opera next year, but the boss of the Komische Oper in Berlin is only now directing his first show at Covent Garden. Kosky is making his debut with Shostakovich’s brittle early satire, based on Gogol’s short story. It’s the first time The Nose has been staged by the company, and Ingo Metzmacher makes a welcome return to to conduct. • Royal Opera House, London, 20 October to 9 November.Vivaldi Rocks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hugo Ticciati Photograph: Marco BorggreveA concert that mixes Vivaldi with Muse, Metallica and Pink Floyd? Crossover projects can be toe-curlingly embarrassing, but in the hands of inspirational violinist Hugo Ticciati and the O/Modernt Kammarorkester this promises to transcend the dread “fusion” and reinvent the past by exploring relationships between old and new. • Kings Place, London, 22 October. The Sounds that Changed AmericaBy one of those happy coincidences that give meaning to the lives of concert planners everywhere, the next six months will see the 80th birthdays of both Steve Reich and Philip Glass, and John Adams’s 70th. The Barbican is celebrating all three anniversaries with a season-long series of concerts, focusing on each composer in turn. Reich gets attention first, with a weekend that includes performances of his classic Drumming, the video opera Three Tales, and the orchestral Desert Music. • Barbican, London, 5 and 6 November; series continues to 25 April.LuluThough English National Opera’s programme at the Coliseum this season is restricted to eight productions, just three of them new, William Kentridge’s staging of Berg’s unfinished masterpiece, first seen in New York last year, is thankfully one of those that has survived the cuts. Lulu comes to London with American soprano Brenda Rae in the title role of the femme fatale; Sarah Connolly is the faithful Geschwitz and James Morris is Schön. Recently departed ENO music director Mark Wigglesworth conducts. • Coliseum, London, 9-19 November.