The fine playing of the oboist Neil Black, who has died aged 84, enabled him to make the most of the opportunities presented by concert life in the decades following the second world war. He joined the newly founded National Youth Orchestra in 1948, stayed for its first three years, and later became principal oboe of the London Philharmonic Orchestra (1958-60). LPs were being recorded not only by symphony orchestras but also by chamber orchestras specialising in music from the 18th century and earlier – a more intimate type of performance that Black came to prefer. As a result, no oboist featured on more recordings than he did.With the Academy of St Martin in the Fields he recorded concertos by Vivaldi and Alan Rawsthorne, Mozart’s Concerto in C, and with its chamber ensemble Mozart’s Oboe Quartet and sonatas by Handel. He was principal with the English Chamber Orchestra during the 1970s, 80s and most of the 90s, initially sharing the post with Peter Graeme; he recorded the Concerto for Violin and Oboe by JS Bach with Itzhak Perlman, and the concertos by Richard Strauss and Ralph Vaughan Williams, with Daniel Barenboim conducting. With the pianist Murray Perahia, Black was one of the four wind soloists from the ECO in the quintets by Mozart and Beethoven, and he played on the complete cycles of Mozart piano concertos by Perahia, Barenboim and Mitsuko Uchida. His other main chamber orchestra post was with the London Mozart Players.Born in Birmingham, Neil was the youngest of four children of Harold Black, one of the first consultant radiologists in Britain, and his wife, Margaret (nee Nicholson), who had been a nurse before they married. His flute-playing brother, John, 10 years his senior, advised him to take up the oboe. He started learning at the age of 11 with Lucy Vincent, first oboe in the City of Birmingham Orchestra, now the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra (the first woman to hold such a position in a British orchestra), and later with Hilda Hunter, continuing during holidays from Rugby school. There he found a band, where he received encouragement, but the school provided no formal lessons.Despite his time in the NYO, Black did not go to a music college, but in 1952 went to Exeter College, Oxford, to study history; he retained a lifelong interest in the subject, making him a knowledgable and entertaining companion on visits to historical sites. Towards the end of his time at Oxford, a vacancy came up for second oboe in the London Symphony Orchestra. The principal, Roger Lord, suggested that Black might take it, but he declined as he had not yet completed his finals.After graduation he decided to have some private lessons with Terence MacDonagh, the principal in Thomas Beecham’s Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. Black’s ability was such that he was frequently booked to play beside MacDonagh in the orchestra. After six lessons MacDonagh refused to teach him any longer, with the explanation: “I don’t teach colleagues.”Robin O’Neill, principal bassoon of the ECO, said: “Neil was a dear, wise and supportive colleague. He was a master of the singing line, had an innate sense colour and of light and shade, and never played an uncommitted note – and was wonderfully collegial, witty and hilariously ironic.” He was always the first to welcome a nervous new player and offer a cup of tea.At the Royal Academy of Music, London (1960-70), and later at the Guildhall School of Music, he taught many of today’s professional players. Each June from the early 90s he taught and played at the Sarasota music festival in Florida, and he was artistic director and a jury member for the second and third Barbirolli International Oboe Competitions (2009 and 2014), held at the Erin Arts Centre, Isle of Man.Black became the musical director of the Kirckman Concert Society in 1998, following the death of the previous director, Geraint Jones. The organisation selects and promotes young artists of exceptional talent and provides them with a platform at a major London venue. He was also involved in the Tunnell Trust for Young Musicians. In 1989 he was appointed OBE, and he continued playing until recent years.He is survived by his second wife, Janice Knight, also an oboist, whom he married in 1984; by the son and two daughters of his first marriage, to Jill Hemingsley, which ended in divorce, and by four grandchildren.• Neil Cathcart Black, oboist, born 28 May 1932; died 14 August 2016