Awards season is upon us. With the Golden Globes all wrapped up, the National Television Awards looming and the Baftas still to come, British television shows are due to be showered with more gold than a Russian hotel mattress. But while TV has changed immeasurably in recent years, the categories in which performers are nominated remain broadly the same as they were two decades ago – best newcomer, serial drama, daytime – and there’s a lot of overlap between the ceremonies. What’s needed is a whole new set of categories to reflect the niche challenges of modern broadcasting…Biggest Employer of British Actors      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Foy and Jared Harris in The Crown. Photograph: Alex Bailey/APIt is said only one in 50 UK actors earns more than £20K a year, but certain shows work hard to redress this statistic. Traditionally, this distinction belonged to stalwart dramas such as Silent Witness, or to US programmes in need of multiple villains. More recently, Game Of Thrones has – through sheer attrition – made plain its determination to give every actor in these isles something to put on his or her CV. But the favourite this year has to be The Crown, which won big at the Golden Globes. With its huge cast and constant need for bodies to fatten up a royal procession or fill out a flag-waving crowd, this series probably employs enough formerly resting actors to staff a 19th-century soap factory. If you need an explanation for the great department store Santa shortage of 2016, look no further.Best Jon Snow      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A very mucky Jon Snow (not the news one). Photograph: Helen Sloan/APThe Games Of Thrones character played by Kit Harington has snapped up this award every year for the last four years running. This year, Jon Snow the newsreader had every reason to think he was in with a shout, after the other Jon Snow got killed at the end of season five. But he probably wasn’t reckoning with the possibility of a season six resurrection. Maybe next year.Comedy Series Most Overtaken by Events      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Julia Louis-Dreyfus in Veep. Photograph: Lacey Terrell/HBOVeep retained its place as the sharpest and most scabrous satire of the US executive branch, right up until Donald Trump became president of the United States. Now it looks like The West Wing. There is simply no point in trying to take the piss out politics any more; all we can do is watch the real thing, and cry a little. Someone should sell the idea to Amazon Prime, and call it Weep.Scariest Newcomer   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you’re not still having nightmares about those racer snakes from Planet Earth II, it’s only because you lack the empathy to put yourself in the shoes of a baby iguana trying to get from rock A to rock B.Best Rebrand      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scrotal Recall – now Lovesick. Photograph: Brian Sweeney/Channel 4A whole new ball game: the unlikely return of STI sitcom Scrotal Recall This award goes to a charming, clever romantic comedy that had everything going for it apart from its title: Scrotal Recall. The name was meant to underscore the premise (boy revisits past loves who may have contracted an STD from him) but most people assumed it was a show about defective testicles and avoided it. That might have been the end of it but the series rose again, on Netflix, under the rather more tasteful title of Lovesick. Extra credit is due for resisting the temptation to call it A La Recherche du Testicules Perdu.Special Recognition: Taking Jobs Back from the Robots      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Marsden as Teddy Flood in Westworld. Photograph: HBOWhile automation has led to unemployment in many professions, actors still play robots way more often than robots play actors. The second series of Humans deserves a mention here, but Westworld is now the biggest repository of dead-eyed-machine ensemble acting since Downton Abbey ended, and on Westworld you have to be able to do it naked.Special Rebuke      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Lancashire in the not-so-Happy Valley. Photograph: Ben Blackall/BBC/PATo be presented each year by a different local tourism body, for outstanding achievement in discouraging visitors to a particular area, either by characterising it as unsafe, or depressing, or both. This year will likely see joint winners: Trapped (presented by Promote Iceland) and series two of Happy Valley (with scorn, from Calderdale council’s tourism team).Most Delayed Reunion      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cold Feet as it was in 2016. Photograph: ITV/REX/ShutterstockSome shows come to define a generation, only to come back later to redefine that generation in decidedly less flattering terms. Cold Feet returned to ITV after an impressive 13-year gap last year, catching up with its fans just in time to hold up a mirror to their own fractured middle-aged existences. Divorce, depression and financial difficulty: like you don’t get enough of that at home. Honourable mention to Gilmore Girls, for waiting almost as long.Most Fourth Walls Broken      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phoebe Waller-Bridge in Fleabag. Photograph: BBC'Am I still a feminist if I watch porn?' Meet Phoebe Waller-Bridge, the British Lena Dunham Until recently, this was a deeply unfashionable discipline. Only newsreaders and documentary presenters address the camera directly; everybody else in factual programming looks off to one side, as if talking to an unseen producer. That’s partly what made Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s performance in Fleabag so unsettling: her character’s down-the-lens monologues were as terrifyingly intimate as they were funny. This technique is set to become so popular that next year this award will have to be recast as a punishment, complete with fine.The National Television Awards is on Wednesday 25 January, 7.30pm, ITV 