As the new millennium (and the death of Mary Whitehouse) ushered in a more liberal media age, the prefix “un” suddenly became one of the most powerful tools in movie marketing. But as audiences celebrated the arrival of “uncut” versions of previously abridged films, and “uncensored” reissues of once suppressed works, they barely stopped to question whether an “unseen” edition of a beloved favourite might, in fact, be worse than the theatrical cut, or whether an “unauthorised” video release might have less to offer than the alternative.At its best, the word “unauthorised” suggests a searingly honest look at a secretive subject. In other instances, it seems intended merely to provide a legal buffer for titles that might otherwise appear to be passing themselves off as official merchandise. I’m thinking specifically about the countless celebrity biography DVDs that seem to litter the nation’s supermarket checkout aisles: offerings like Pitbull: The Life Of The Party, Adele – Fire & Rain: The Story and – due for release this Monday – The Weeknd: His Life, His Story, a low-cost DVD promising an “intimate” portrait of the R&B star, real name Abel Tesfaye. Not wishing to judge a film by its point-of-sale retail placement, I decided to take a look at Tesfaye’s unauthorised life story myself.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Given the film’s lean 42-minute runtime, you’ll forgive me a full rundown of its contents. First, an emotionless narrator reads a short bio adapted from the opening paragraph of Tesfaye’s Wikipedia entry, while a silent clip from one of his music videos plays. Then, the film cues up Road To Release – a 2013 documentary Tesfaye wrote and directed for MTV – and allows it to play out in full. The same treatment is afforded to A Legend Is Born, a fan-made YouTube montage featuring various live performance clips and Instagram videos. Next, the film segues into a clip of Tesfaye rehearsing backstage at the O2 Arena, which the artist shared online in 2014. Finally, another silent video clip provides the backdrop for a brief closing monologue – as far as I can tell, the only original piece of work in the entire film – asking what else Tesfaye will be able to accomplish “with more time and maturity and experience”.The end product is more or less exactly what you’d get if you programmed a computer to find five popular YouTube videos with “The Weeknd” in their titles and place them end-to-end. Assuming it’s all been properly licensed – which would involve securing permissions from Universal, MTV, an anonymous YouTube user and Tesfaye himself – then it’s hard to see exactly what makes this collection of officially sanctioned promo material an unauthorised release. Perhaps another adjective would be better suited: unprincipled, unscrupulous, or simply unconvincing.