We live in a world awash with stories of stolen metadata, search engines that allow us to watch live videos of babies sleeping and toys that can be hacked to steal your child’s name, birth date and gender; what Al Gore summed up as our “stalker economy”. So the image of Jennifer Lyn Morone, standing in an oversized suit, bulldog-clamped down her spine like a fabric dinosaur, and talking about the “business opportunity” of buying her “blood, sweat and tears”, is strangely hilarious.But Morone is only doing what David Bowie, Madonna, Prince and Kim Kardashian have hinted at: turning herself into a registered company, Jennifer Lyn Morone™ Inc. Walking into Neoliberal Lulz at Carroll/Fletcher gallery in London, you are confronted by an introductory video of Morone, her hair static, her cheeks flushed, talking down the camera in the corporate babble that saturates modern life. “My data is a resource for me to exploit,” says Morone, the camera panning round to reveal the bunched jacket at her back. “I want to make me, my life and my experience my business.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘My data is a resource for me to exploit’ … the promotional video for Jennifer Lyn Morone Inc. I’m not saying this shouldn’t be done – I’m saying it is being done already Another video shows Morone conducting a three-way boardroom meeting as director, secretary and treasurer. There are adverts for diamonds made from her hair, her own signature perfume and a manual called How to Become a Corporation in 10 Steps, on sale in hardback. But the most troubling, and arguably most daring part of Morone’s exhibit are the dossiers of the artist’s real data – her bank statements, emails, medical records, photographs, digital content, all of it – on sale for as little as £100. Isn’t she terrified by the possible ramifications? “Perhaps I would be if I had more money,” says Morone, in her native drawl. “It’s interesting to see what could happen – how something like that is treated once it’s an artwork; why people are buying that. Is it because a gallery is telling them it’s worth something? Or because they just want to know that stuff?” The complete dossier, including a year’s worth of data on her character, demographic, lifestyle, health, digital activity, identity, finance, can be yours for £7,000.Morone, who moved to London 14 years ago, studying Design Interactions at the Royal College of Art after a BA in sculpture, wants to highlight our state of “data slavery” – the willingness to submit our every moveto social media and confess our darkest secrets to the search bar, lining the pockets of big business as we do.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Artist for sale … Jennifer Lyn Morone’s data packages. Photograph: Courtesy of the artist and Carroll / Fletcher, LondonBut the show also explores how much value society puts in data – birth dates, heart rates, holiday photos – compared to art. “Art is a business,” says Morone, flatly. “It’s just how many people you can get to believe in something. Same with the show; same with the stock market. This show proves it’s impossible to live outside any market. Everything – whatever its intention at first – gets turned into some sort of product.” It’s satirical, of course, but like all satire, it intends to make the familiar unfamiliar. “Do people have to ask my permission or sign a terms and conditions agreement if they want to speak to me?” asks Morone. “It’s a ridiculous scenario, but that’s what we do every day, with technology like Google Glass and Skype. You don’t know who the end user is and for what purpose. We sign away our rights without thinking.” We are no longer a proletariat, argues Morone, but a procureiat - constantly creating profit for someone, somewhere; probably shareholders in a company registered in Delaware that harvests our data like a hurricane. “There’s a whole rule book that other people are playing with and we don’t understand,” says Morone. “I’m not saying this shouldn’t be done - I’m saying it is being done already.”Facebook says governments demanding more and more user data The purpose behind Jennifer Lyn Morone™ Inc is to make people think a little more about the mess we’ve got ourselves into. “When knowledge and wealth are in the hands of so few, it becomes a scary situation. When I started looking at the data industry, I realised it was just another industry. When the Snowden revelations came out people were concerned about privacy, but I was interested in the value of that information. It’s such a high-worth industry. So who is collecting and trading that information for profit?”It’s a question that, for Morone, is best answered by running headlong at the problem; by embodying the discomfort; by turning her flesh and blood into commercial commodities. The fact it doesn’t quite work – that the suit jacket is too large, the boardroom meeting straight out of a sketch show, the corporate diagrams just a little too hand-drawn – is the point. “The jacket doesn’t quite fit,” says Morone. “This whole thing doesn’t quite fit. I’m human, natural – and that’s something I couldn’t mask.”Neoliberal Lulz is at Carroll/Fletcher, London, from 12 February to 2 April.