Maggie Lunn, who has died of cancer aged 56, was a leading casting director, at various times head of casting at the Royal Shakespeare Company, the National Theatre and the Almeida. She also cast for television and film, including the BBC series Cranford and the film Notes on a Scandal. Recent work for the stage included, in 2015, the triumphant Young Chekhov trilogy at Chichester Festival theatre, which transferred to the National the following year.Casting directors – in theatre, TV and film – are the unsung heroes of every production. Benedict Cumberbatch, Alex Jennings, Ben Whishaw, Eve Best, Rory Kinnear, Eddie Redmayne and David Oyelowo are a few of the now-celebrated actors whose careers Maggie helped to launch.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Oyelowo as Henry VI at the Royal Shakespeare Company in 2001While at the RSC she particularly influenced the casting of black and minority ethnic actors in roles habitually seen as white: Oyelowo’s performance as Henry VI in 2000 – the first BME actor to play the role of an English monarch in the company’s history – was a superb vindication of this strategy. She continued to be evangelical about this policy at the Almeida and at the National.She liked actors – an essential asset, but one often lacking both in casting directors and directors. Directors tend to be endemically pessimistic during casting; Maggie’s cheerfulness and unaffected optimism made such gloom vanish like mist in the morning sun.Born in Jesmond, Newcastle upon Tyne, Maggie, born Margaret, was the youngest of four children of John Lunn, a headteacher, and his wife, Norah (nee Lucey), who ignited her daughter’s love of reading. Maggie went to Sacred Heart grammar school, Fenham, and became addicted to theatre in her teens when, from an onstage seat at Theatre Royal, Newcastle, she saw Judi Dench in the RSC’s productions of Much Ado About Nothing and The Comedy of Errors.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cate Blanchett and Judi Dench in Notes on a Scandal (2006). Photograph: Giles Keyte/APAfter reading English at Newcastle University, Maggie started out on a career in journalism as a research assistant at the Daily Telegraph. In the mid-1980s she became Miss Rita Chevrolet – Lord Gnome’s secretary at Private Eye magazine – and, along with Peter Cook and Ian Hislop, took part in a raid on Robert Maxwell’s office at the Daily Mirror to steal a dummy copy of a spoof Private Eye. Cook softened up the Mirror journalists by sending them a case of whisky and the raiders walked unchallenged into Maxwell’s office. Maggie removed the Not Private Eye and carried it out under her coat.She left Private Eye in 1987 and, deciding to make a living out of her passion, got a job as an assistant to a casting director, Gill Titchmarsh, and then to Gail Stevens. She made a sufficient mark as an assistant for Adrian Noble to appoint her head of casting at the RSC in 1995. Appointed resident casting director at the Almeida theatre in 2000, she worked on productions such as Festen (2004), Blood Wedding (2005) and, with me, Hedda Gabler (2005). For part of that time, from 2001 to 2003, she was also acting head of casting at the National Theatre, where the repertory included Cole Porter’s Anything Goes, Love’s Labour’s Lost, A Streetcar Named Desire with Glenn Close and Iain Glen, and Tom Stoppard’s trilogy The Coast of Utopia (Voyage, Shipwreck and Salvage).Later in the decade she went freelance, casting TV productions including Oliver Twist, with Timothy Spall as Fagin, and Cranford with Eileen Atkins and Dench (both 2007), then Great Expectations (2011) with Ray Winstone as Magwitch, and the first cycle of the Shakespeare TV film series The Hollow Crown (2012), with Whishaw as Richard II, Jeremy Irons as Henry IV, Tom Hiddleston as Hal, Simon Russell Beale as Falstaff and Julie Walters as Mistress Quickly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The BBC series Cranford (2007), cast by Maggie Lunn. From left: Lisa Dillon, Barbara Flynn, Eileen Atkins as Miss Deborah, Judi Dench as Miss Matty and Julia Sawalha.Her stage freelance work included A Moon for the Misbegotten (2006) with Kevin Spacey at the Old Vic and Trevor Nunn’s 2011 Haymarket season – Flare Path with Sienna Miller and Sheridan Smith, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead with Samuel Barnett and Jamie Parker, and The Tempest with Ralph Fiennes as Prospero. She also worked on Sam Mendes’ transatlantic Bridge Project (2009-12) at the Old Vic and in New York, and Maria Friedman’s High Society (2015) at the Old Vic, with Kate Fleetwood as Tracy Lord.In film, she cast Emma Thompson and Jonathan Pryce in Christopher Hampton’s Carrington (1995), and Dench, Cate Blanchett and Bill Nighy in Notes on a Scandal (2006).The last time I worked with Maggie came a year ago on Long Day’s Journey Into Night for the Bristol Old Vic, with Jeremy Irons and Lesley Manville. She had been ill, but turned up at the opening night, shining with joy after the performance. “We did it,” she said with proprietorial pride.There was no actor, director or producer who, having worked with her, did not regard her as a friend. And she cared as deeply about the planet’s animal population as she did about the human one: she spent a week in Cornwall digging up Japanese knotweed to encourage choughs to nest, and watched over hatchling turtles in Thailand. When she was no longer able to work, she set herself the challenge of learning to play the violin.In 2008 she married the actor Paul Jesson. He survives her, as do her daughter, Joanne, from an earlier relationship, two grandchildren, a sister, Clare, and two brothers, John and Simon.• Maggie (Margaret Hilary) Lunn, casting director, born 26 January 1961; died 19 February 2017