More than 50 million people across a swathe of the Great Plains states were braced for a second round of extreme weather on Tuesday, from hail storms to tornadoes, after the devastation that was visited on an Oklahoma town on Monday. The storm prediction centre of the National Weather Service in Norman, Oklahoma forecast isolated tornadoes across large parts of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana."There is obviously more wild weather taking place across the southern plains today," said Tom Kines, a meteorologist at Accuweather. "I suspect it's only going to get worse as the day wears on out there."Moore, the suburb of Oklahoma City where at least 24 of people were killed on Monday, was unlikely to suffer another tornado, although it was in the path of a line of thunderstorms. South-eastern Oklahoma, central and north-eastern Texas, south-western Arkansas and north-western Louisiana were warned that they were at risk of tornadoes and other severe storms, including hail the size of golf balls, as a severe weather system began making its way out of New Mexico. That included much larger metropolitan areas even than those in the way of the tornado cells on Monday, including the cities of Dallas-Fort Worth and San Antonio in Texas and Shreveport in Louisiana. "The tornadoes yesterday were very destructive. They weren't the run of the mill tornadoes. They were as bad as it can get," said Kines. "Today again there is likely to be some large tornadoes like yesterday. Obviously the places that do get hit by them the damage is going to be very bad."In southern Oklahoma and northern and central Texas, the tornado watch went in effect from 10am until 7pm central time. "Persons in these areas should be on the lookout for threatening weather conditions and listen for later statements and possible warnings," the tornado watch said.The storm centre said to expect gusts of wind of up to 80mph. Flash-flood warnings were also in effect for parts of Arkansas and Louisiana, with the storm system forecast to dump several inches of rain in a short time frame on Tuesday afternoon. The line of thunderstorms was also forming up into the mid-Mississippi valley.Residents in a great swathe of the country – more than 50 million people – were advised to monitor radio and television broadcasts for possible storm warnings throughout the day and into Tuesday night.