Snapshot: Tokyo summer and the sound of cicadasIn 2011, we sold our little house in Tokyo and came back to live in the UK. At the time, my son Sean was nine and my daughter Moe was seven. They were born in Tokyo and had always lived there. Now they had to adapt to a new, very different culture. We chose an area in the south-east of England, close to my parents and relatives. Over the past five years, I’m pleased to say, Sean and Moe have settled very well and adapted to their new environment.This photograph was taken outside our old house in Tokyo in the summer of 2008. We had a large trellis that stretched from the front door practically to the gate. In summer, the insects would be forever buzzing around the hanging and potted plants on the trellis.We lived opposite a little park called Minami Koen (South Park). We thought of the park as our front garden. Sean and Moe often played with other children from the neighbourhood there. Catching insects and putting them (temporarily) into little plastic aquariums is a popular summertime activity for young children in Tokyo.On this particular hot afternoon, I had just finished cleaning our fish tank where we kept albino frogs. Sean, arm almost stretched out, was trying very carefully to capture an insect.Moe, who had just come out of the house, was lurking with intent with her big butterfly net. I snapped without hesitation and was fortunate to catch that moment in time on 35mm film.Like most parents, we have taken hundreds of pictures of the children in their early years.However, this particular photograph encapsulates their summers growing up in Tokyo. The heat, the drowning din of the cicadas, the humidity, the creaking swings in the park, the typhoons and the rainy seasons. A thousand childhood memories caught in one frame.Jason MurrayPlaylist: How McCartney and I both slowed it down   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Help! by the Beatles“I need somebody ... Help! / Not just anybody ... / Help! / You know I need someone ... / Help!”My school, St Mary’s Lalazar in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, was a magical place to a 10-year-old boy who grew up in a family tense as a tourniquet, dreaming of escapes. Some 35 years ago, I had my first crush on my teacher, a lovely Australian. I can’t remember her name but I have never forgotten her.She wanted some of us to learn songs for a school extravaganza. I swiftly volunteered. The song she chose for me was a super-slow version of Help! by the Beatles. To my horror, my mother and sister announced they were going to attend the concert.The day arrived. It was my turn to perform next and I could taste terror in my mouth. My mother and sister were in the crowd, ready to be proud. And I was choking. Then my Australian teacher came over, smiled and said, “Ready?” And suddenly I was. I sang.That song became a distant memory as I entered my teens uncomfortably, at odds with my father and the world. Then a visiting cousin from the UK left behind a magical audio cassette. One of the songs on it was Help! – a faster version of the one I had performed in front of my mum and sister.I was born in 1970, the year the Beatles officially disbanded. And I sang my first song Help! in public in 1980, the year John Lennon died. My love of the Beatles always felt inevitable. Rock music became an oasis of melodies in the middle of an adolescent desert, my trusted escape from a difficult father-son relationship.Then, in 2010, at the Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, watching Paul McCartney performing Help!, it all came flooding back. Paul sang Help! as a tribute to John and, to my disbelief, at the same slow tempo I sang it 30 years ago at school in Pakistan.That night I really missed John. On stage, Paul said he did too. And I thought of my Australian teacher who started my love for the Beatles in Rawalpindi and never knew it.Sarmed MirzaWe love to eat: Mum’s spicy apple chutneyIngredients5lb apples¼lb raisins2lb red onions1 level tsp salt1 level tbsp ground ginger1lb muscavado sugar1oz pickling spice1½pt malt vinegar1 handful sultanas2 pieces of preserving ginger Peel, core and chop apples. Peel and chop onions. Chop raisins, sultanas and preserving ginger. Separately mix salt, sugar, ginger, vinegar and spice and mix. Transfer to a muslin bag. Add to the other ingredients and mix well. Stir over a low heat in a large pan until sugar dissolves and slowly bring to the boil stirring all the time. Cook on a moderate heat for 30 minutes until mixture thickens.Remove the spice bag and bottle in to warm, dry, screw-top jars. Cover while still hot.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Homemade apple chutney.My mother was the old school kind of mum. She baked, made her own mince using a vice-like metal contraption that she secured to the kitchen worktop when required, Christmas puddings, marmalades, stews, pies and pastries – all from scratch. We never had processed food.For Christmas 1962, my father gave my mother Mrs Beeton’s Family Cookbook. In the back, she stored her favourite recipes, loose and vulnerable. I came across it last summer when I was moving house and had a go at my favourite chutney from childhood. I found the recipe written by my mother on the inside of the back cover and just to see her handwriting after all these years filled me with nostalgic sadness.When the concoction was cooking, the air was filled with spiced apples and evoked such a wave of remembrance that I was stunned. I was six again, sitting on a stool in the scullery, fingers sticky with the sweet spicy goo that oozed from the wooden spoon in my hand.My mother’s voice drifted across time and I heard her pretend to scold me for stealing the mixture. Her smile, warm with the conspiracy of it all danced in my memory and I mourned her loss again.Jennie BraithwaiteWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We love to eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number