Literary prizes are traditionally awarded to the “best” book in a particular category – fiction, poetry or biography, for example. But the “best” is nebulous and subjective: put six books in front of a reading group, a set of reviewers, or a panel of judges, and opinions will diverge. Now in its fourth year, the £10,000 Goldsmiths prize for fiction has a different agenda: to reward and celebrate the new. Is newness any easier to identify than bestness? Perhaps not. But – as I’ve discovered while judging the prize this year, along with Bernardine Evaristo, Erica Wagner and Joanna Walsh – it’s challenging to think about and fun to discuss.Laurence Sterne, who described Tristram Shandy as “something new, quite out of the beaten track”, is the presiding spirit of fiction that breaks the mould and extends the possibilities of the form. Finding the right word for this kind of writing is tricky. Every novel is an experiment of some kind, but even the authors to whom it’s attached tend to disavow the term “experimental”, for fear of what it will suggest: impenetrability, cerebralism, art that’s more to be endured than enjoyed. “Novelty” won’t do, either – proverbially, it soon wears off, and it’s associated with trifles and cheap knick-knacks. “Innovation” comes closer to the mark, though when heard on the lips of politicians and business leaders it loses its lustre.Single sentence novel wins Goldsmiths prize for books that 'break the mould' The Latin verb “novo” suggests refreshment and alteration as well as invention. No writer can entirely break with the past. To depart from tradition you first have to know what it is. Virginia Woolf thought she did know. In a talk to (appropriately enough) the Heretics Society, she attacked Arnold Bennett, HG Wells and John Galsworthy for writing novels that were more about houses than about the people who live inside them. Something brighter, airier, less solid was needed, she said, inviting readers to “tolerate the spasmodic, the obscure, the fragmentary, the failure”, in a spirit not dissimilar to that of David Shields in his recent polemic Reality Hunger.Since Woolf, there’s been a loose consensus about what the “new” in fiction consists of, or what it eschews. Plot, if it exists at all, won’t be chronological: “A story must have a beginning, middle and end,” as Jean-Luc Godard said, “but not necessarily in that order.” Character won’t be rendered through outward appearance or what DH Lawrence called “the old stable ego”, but through what he described as “some other rhythmic form, as when one draws a fiddle-bow across a fine tray delicately sanded, the sand takes lines unknown”. Syntax will disobey the rules since, as James Joyce said, “one great part of every human existence is passed in a state which cannot be rendered sensible by the use of wideawake language, cutanddry grammar and goahead plot”.Of course modernism isn’t new any more, and nor is postmodernism, but a central tenet of both movements – that realism is redundant because reality is no longer realistic – has never felt more relevant. One of the pleasures in arriving at a shortlist for the Goldsmiths prize (there were 111 submissions in all) was to see how skilfully today’s novelists negotiate between an indebtedness to precedent and a need to be uniquely themselves. Eimear McBride is the first to acknowledge a debt to Joyce but the linguistic adventures, disrupted syntax and typographical adjustments of The Lesser Bohemians are different from the wordplay of Finnegans Wake, just as the sex in the novel (and there’s a lot of it) is very different from the sex in Ulysses. The novel is also an advance from McBride’s debut, A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing, since she makes room for a second voice, that of a middle-aged man, whose idiom is less fractured.Deborah Levy’s Hot Milk has been described as a novelistic rewriting of Hélène Cixous’s 1975 feminist call-to-arms The Laugh of the Medusa, which argues that “woman must write her self: must write about women and bring women to writing, from which they have been driven away as violently as from their bodies”. Medusas do feature in Hot Milk, in the form of jellyfish, and the initially lost and stifled female protagonist, Sofia, learns to inhabit her own body and take both male and female lovers. But the world described in Hot Milk – Almería, the beach of the dead, a mother who for mysterious reasons can’t or won’t walk – is Levy-ish, not Cixoux-ish. These novels may have debts of influence but they’re their own freshly created universes.Like Karl Ove Knausgaard, Rachel Cusk straddles the border between fiction and non-fiction. Her writing feels autobiographical, even confessional, but the “I” in Transit, like the “I” in its predecessor Outline, isn’t quite her and, for all the seeming candour of the prose, doesn’t give a lot away; it’s other people’s stories she hears and narrates, not her own. This tension between intimacy and impersonality is fascinating; Cusk is writing at the height of her powers.“The only obligation of a novel is to be interesting,” Henry James said, and interest resides in content as well as form. I can’t think of any novels, let alone British novels, that have taken a septuagenarian Nigerian woman living in a multiethnic community in San Francisco as their subject matter. Along with its technical accomplishments (multiple narrators and shifts in points of view), Sarah Lapido Manyika’s Like a Mule Bringing Ice Cream to the Sun fills that gap. Bolder still, Anakana Schofield’s Martin John inhabits the mind of a disturbed young Irishman in London who has a history of molesting women. Few writers would dare to go there; fewer still dare to risk humour. The prose rhythms are cyclical, to enhance a feeling of entrapment, but despite that, and despite Schofield’s resistance to “story”, things do move on – and the reader, horribly compelled, keeps on to the end.Solar Bones by Mike McCormack review – an extraordinary hymn to small-town Ireland “To get at the good stuff, the writer needs to walk along the edge of a cliff,” last year’s winner of the Goldsmiths prize, Kevin Barry, has said. The metaphor will resonate with this year’s winner, his fellow Irishman, Mike McCormack, who said that after his 2005 novel Notes from a Coma “fell off the cliff commercially” he found himself without a publisher for his next novel, Solar Bones, until – numerous rejections later – the tiny Irish outfit Tramp Press enthusiastically took it on. Thank goodness they did. Set over a few hours in a single day, and told in the first-person voice of a middle-aged engineer, Solar Bones transcends those seeming limits magnificently. Politics, family, art, marriage, health, civic duty and the environment are just a few of the themes it touches on, in a prose that’s lyrical yet firmly rooted. Its subject may be an ordinary working life, but it is itself an extraordinary work – one that’s immaculately punctuated even though, like the Molly Bloom monologue in Ulysses, it refrains from using a single full stop.The role played by small publishers in encouraging new fiction is one obvious story of the Goldsmiths prize: without Tramp Press, Lilliput, And Other Stories, Cassava Republic, Galley Beggar and Unbound our literary landscape would be much the poorer. The predominance of Irish presses, and Irish novelists, is another story: three out of four winners of the Goldsmiths prize; three out of six on this year’s shortlist. Socioeconomic factors are involved here (Ireland offers generous state funding and tax breaks for writers), as well as the example set by Joyce, Beckett and Flann O’Brien, who redefined what fiction can do.“There’s nothing new under the sun” goes the adage. But without the belief that there are things to say that haven’t been said before, nothing would ever get written. And without the drive to seek out novels that reflect the changing world we live in, nothing would ever get read. “Beauty in art,” according to Milan Kundera, “is the suddenly kindled light of the never-before-said”. To discover such beauty remains a goal for writers and readers alike.• This article was amended on 14 November 2016 to correct the spelling of Eimear McBride’s name.