Is Sydney a creative city? And if not, does it have the parts in place to become one? That’s the central question driving artistic director Barry Keldoulis as he helms Art Month Sydney for the first time.“If it’s the artists’ creative juices that are the fuel,” then what, he asks “are the pistons that fire, the drive shafts that crank and the wheels that turn to get this engine of creativity moving?”A-Z of contemporary art in association with Art Month The engine of creativityGet your brain into gear with a panel discussion in Darlinghurst on what powers an artistic ecosystem. City of Sydney executive manager of cultural and creative programs Alex Bowen will moderate the discussion, joined by public art consultant Barbara Flynn, curator and artist Glenn Barkley, Jess Cook of 107 Projects and Brisbane-born artist Lindy Lee.• The Engine of Creativity is at BackStage Project Space, Conny Dietzschold gallery in Darlinghurst on 3 MarchArt at nightWith all this talk of Sydney’s creative engine, it seems fitting that the festival’s central hub has taken over a massive garage space.  Eveleigh Creative Precinct will host a number of exhibitions and dining events, and the popular Art at Night finale. Making its comeback across two locations (East Sydney and Paddington), it features pop-up bars by boutique Adelaide winemakers Cake Wines. Sip while you peruse the galleries. How sophisticated.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The popular Art at Night events will take place across Paddington, Redfern, Chippendale and East Sydney. Photograph: Articulare PRFor the East Sydney event, queer performers Liam Benson and Wisteria Hysteria will belt out tunes across the trail’s restaurants and galleries in a Mardi Gras-inspired night. Well-known as an art precinct, a succession of galleries in Paddington and parts of Woollahra will host art-lovers, finishing with drinks and music performances at Roslyn Oxley9 gallery.• Art at Night: East Sydney is at the National Art School, Darlinghurst on 3 March; Art at Night: Paddington and Woollahra is at The Bonython Courtyard, Paddington on 10 March; and Art at Night: Chippendale and Redfern is at Eveleigh Creative Precinct on 16 MarchCycle toursYour blood will be pumping and wheels turning on a cycle tour led by artists Diego Bonetto and Salote Tawale. Whether you want to up your art knowledge or your cycle game, these two different tours will take you through the galleries and public spaces of Newtown, Marrickville and East Sydney. For those less energetic, walking and bus tours are on offer around Sydney’s inner rim. It’s more than likely you’ll have coffee stops along the way so don’t forget your change. • Artcycle events take place across Sydney from 3-20 March      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Art lovers get mobile outside Carriageworks. Photograph: Articulate PRGreen-eyed monster eating its own tailIt is commonly assumed that the art world is an elite one, and for that reason Barry Keldoulis has curated an exhibition that – as with much of art month – seeks to overturn such a theory. His exhibition Green-eyed monster eating its own tail showcases artists whose art is about the art world. If that sounds meta be assured that artists Tracey Moffatt, Tom Polo, Christine Dean and Grant Stevens, along with many others, have jumped on the theme, telling visual stories with sass and humour.• Green-eyes monster eating its own tail is at The Paramount Building and Golden Age cinema and bar from 5-20 MarchSydney’s smallest gallery      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A piece from the Subtler Things in Life series by Alicia Rae Hollier at Sydney’s Smallest Gallery. Photograph: Articulate PRThose who like art on a smaller scale can peep into Sydney’s Smallest Gallery – a tiny exhibition that fits only one viewer at a time. Nauti Studios in Stanmore will celebrate the infinitesimal in our world and a number of miniature spaces have been purposefully curated to showcase little artworks across disparate mediums.• Sydney’s Smallest Gallery is at Nauti Studios from 5-20 March Can you collect performance art?Performance art continues to grow in popularity in Australia (and since 2012 there’s been a festival dedicated to the genre). But can you collect performance art? Arts writer Michaela Boland  will moderate a panel dissecting the question with John Kaldor of Kaldor Art Projects, performance artist Emma Price and Jeff Khan of Performance Space. For those interested in seeing performance artwork, even if you can’t quite collect it, have a look at Corpus in Potts Point on 3 March or Art That Moves in Willoughby on 5 March.• Can you collect performance art? is at The Bearded Tit on 9 MarchThe floral gift      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna McMahon and Sarah Ryan’s The Floral Gift offers foodies a floral menu. Photograph: Anna McMahonIt would hardly be a Sydney event if it didn’t involve some kind of artistic take on food. In The Floral Gift artists Anna McMahon and Sarah Ryan collaborated with Bloodwood chef Claire van Vuuren to create an entirely flower-based menu. Guests are invited to pull out a chair at MOP Projects where Ryan’s artworks will be hung, and taste from a floral menu that begins with pre-dinner drinks right through to dessert.• The Floral Gift is at MOP Projects on 11 MarchVideo oediVVideo oediV review – where and what is video art in 2016? Since the 1960s art has leapt from the confines of the gallery into public spaces and onto the screen. Video oediV has a look at this phenomenon, tracing the evolution of video as an artistic medium. Campbelltown arts centre presents a collection of video works by local and international artists from Germany, England, the US, Thailand and Brazil, each produced by female artists. The works examine a common theme in video art’s history: the visibility, influence and experience of females in and through technology.• Video oediV is at Campbelltown arts centre from 16 January to 20 March