Sir David Hare has warned that an obsession with box office success is having a detrimental effect on British theatre and distorting decisions about which plays are staged.The playwright said: “Because subsidy is so stretched … every director of a theatre has an emollient eye on the box office. It is now assumed that what is good is that which succeeds.“When I was young, British theatre was like a tree in which many different birds could nest. But now it’s just for the hawks. It’s not for the birds of plumage, who are not so welcome any more, mainly because they don’t fill the commercial imperative of selling every seat. That, I’m afraid, is how artistic directors are judged.”Hare was speaking ahead of an official announcement on 21 April that the University of East Anglia has acquired the Snoo Wilson Archive. Andrew Wilson, nicknamed “Snoo” from childhood, was a founding member with Hare and others of Portable Theatre, an influential fringe company that toured experimental socialist plays in the 1970s.Hare, 68, said failure was respectable then: “We all wrote plays that failed.” But, he went on, critics regularly give today’s young playwrights routinely three-star reviews, whereas he, Howard Brenton and Wilson encountered open hostility when they were fine-tuning their craft: “All of us had a baptism of fire with the critics ,who thought that we were long-haired anarchists.”He added that what “really did” for Wilson, who died in 2013, aged 64, was “the equivalence of what is commercially successful and what is good” .Describing Wilson’s imagination as “unique and individual”, he said that advocating one of his plays was “often met by artistic directors rolling their eyes at the complication of what it would mean for them”.Manuscripts relating to Wilson’s plays, professional and personal correspondence, scrapbooks and photographs will be held alongside the papers of Doris Lessing and other leading authors in UEA’s British Archive for Contemporary Writing.Archivist Justine Mann said that Wilson’s papers showed the arc of his fortunes. While his correspondence was characteristic of his work – “he saw the surreal and absurd in every aspect of life” – his notebooks, diaries and other documents reflected his struggle in later years to interest theatres and film production companies in his work. Wilson kept painful rejection letters from directors, including Peter Hall, Trevor Nunn and Richard Eyre. In 1973, Eyre wrote from Nottingham Playhouse as its then artistic director: “I think you take your audience just a bit too much for granted and expect a level of intelligence from them which is just short of superhuman … this may well be my stupidity, but there is a reasonable guarantee that most of your audience will be at least as stupid as me.”Like other directors, he did, however, also offer words of praise and encouragement. Another director told Wilson that his work was “too rich, too complicated in its anarchic complexity”.Hare said he believed Wilson suffered partly because he did not have a powerful advocate. “The Royal Court is said to be a writers’ theatre, but it’s not,” he said. “Like all theatres, it’s a directors’ theatre. Directors run the British theatre. They decide what goes on. At the Court, David Storey had Lindsay Anderson, Edward Bond had Bill Gaskill, John Osborne had Anthony Page. If you didn’t have an advocate within that building, you couldn’t get your plays on.”He particularly singled out Wilson’s “brilliant” play, The Soul Of The White Ant, “his masterpiece about apartheid”.Hare said: “A university archive that sees Snoo through the inevitable dip that follows all playwrights’ deaths [is] a fabulous public service that’s being provided by UEA. All credit to them.”