Mel Gibson isn’t the sort of film-maker who uses spoonfuls of sugar to help the medicine go down. The director of grisly meditations Braveheart, The Passion of the Christ, Apocalypto and now Hacksaw Ridge is more the kind to pour a bottle of spirits into an open wound, then throw a match on it.Gibson is terrific at painting blood-stained moving pictures of humans caught in primitive horrors that trigger profound repercussions – from the end of the Mayan civilisation, to Jesus hanging from a cross. He also exhibits great skill geographically orienting audiences, finding visual clarity in chaos. That’s a talent Gibson picked up as an actor from his first feature film director, George Miller. The Mad Max creator has a remarkably linear approach to configuring spatial arrangements: audiences understand at all times where they are in the relation to people and objects on screen, no matter what bedlam the characters are in the thick of. It rubbed off on Miller’s actor-cum-director-in-his-own-right apprentice. As Hugo Weaving, on the press circuit for Gibson’s hardboiled second world war action-drama Hacksaw Ridge, put it: “He’s describing an infinitely chaotic world. And yet the storytelling capabilities of Mel are so extraordinary that he can, bullet to bullet, let you know as a viewer where you are in this film now, even on the battlefield.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The storytelling capabilities of Mel are so extraordinary’: Hugo Weaving on Mel Gibson. Photograph: Mark RogersThe fog, smoke and stink of war put Gibson’s behind-the-camera skills through the wringer. The director comes out firing. Every film, as they say, is a tough fight to make. But occasionally you feel pain practically weeping from the screen. You can in Hacksaw Ridge, as you could in The Passion of the Christ. These are in-your-face movies. But Rachel Griffiths, paired with Weaving for the interview (despite making the film in Australia, Gibson granted no interviews to local media), doesn’t find Gibson’s films confrontational per se.“I think they’re incredibly kinesthetic,” she says. “Maybe some people find that confrontational. I don’t find them politically confrontational. In their proposition – in their moral proposition – they’re not confrontational. I just think they’re extraordinarily physical and visceral, and I think they’re kind of like going on a ride. Hacksaw Ridge review – Mel Gibson finds a conscience in gruesome war story “When you’re getting on a Mel Gibson ride it is a rollercoaster. You will physically and emotionally go somewhere. It won’t be like,” (Griffiths puts on a pompous-sounding voice): “ ‘This is a fascinating film, I love its proposition about the moral quandaries of war.’ You’re like, grabbed by the neck. But I think confrontation is the wrong word.”The two great Australian actors play Tom and Bertha Doss, parents of real-life war hero Desmond T Doss (Andrew Garfield). The film follows the journey of Desmond, who is determined to serve as a medic – and determined to not, under any circumstances, carry a gun. He is staunchly against them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hugo Weaving and Rachel Griffiths as Tom and Bertha Doss in Hacksaw Ridge. Photograph: Mark RogersA label like “extraordinary true story” is catnip for marketing departments. For this one, the description resonates. Desmond simply will not touch a weapon. He faces ridicule, and much worse, from fellow soldiers while training at home, and has to fight tooth-and-nail to go to war unarmed. Hacksaw Ridge is a repudiation of the argument that ends justify means. The protagonist, like Gibson, is also religious: a devout Seventh Day Adventist. “There are religious images within it,” Weaving says, “but to me it’s more interesting to see this film as about a man who has very strong faith and a very strong ideal. Very strong sense of what he will and won’t do. And how holding on to that belief – whatever that belief is – is the thing that propels the movie ... In this circumstance, in war, killing is – come on man, that’s what everybody does! But I believe killing is wrong in any circumstance, says our hero. And that’s what makes the film interesting.”Griffiths compares Hacksaw Ridge’s messages to the “for the greater good”-style arguments that tend to be made about contentious issues. “We all know torture’s wrong. We’ve just had that conversation for 10 years but no, in special circumstances, this is different. Or NSA spying. There’s a whole bunch of our contemporary moral dilemmas where people are trying to convince us that because of what’s happening we need to move these goalposts.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘When somebody comes in with a big story and a big budget, from a crew perspective it raises everybody’s game,’ says Griffiths. Photograph: Mark RogersOne assumes Hacksaw Ridge is a personally significant film for its beleaguered actor-director, who hasn’t ventured behind the camera for a decade. Like any big budget production that rolls into town, honing the skills of local cast and crew, it is also significant for the Australian film industry.“It was great that Mel was coming back here. He went to the same drama school I went to, has the same agents we do and he’s got a lot of experience,” says Weaving. Adds Griffiths: “I’m excited for the Australian crews. Mel’s never made a bad movie. They’re all impossibly ambitious: technically, emotionally. They’ve always got a kind of heroic architecture. They reach, I think, for really big things. When somebody comes in with a big story and a big budget, from a crew perspective it raises everybody’s game.”A little over a year ago, in September 2015, George Brandis lost his job as Australian arts minister in Malcolm Turnbull’s first cabinet as prime minister. The ideologically driven Brandis – now battling a different kind of controversy – had made headlines for all the wrong reasons, ripping $104m from arts funding body the Australia Council. Weaving sums up how the arts community felt when Brandis was moved on in a single word: “Yay!”• Hacksaw Ridge is in Australian cinemas now