25 years after they performed as Bingo Hand Job at the Borderline in central London, in a gig Melody Maker described as taking forty minutes to ruin a career they had spent ten years building, REM were back at the venue. Well, Michael Stipe and Mike Mills were, at least.They were being interviewed by John Harris about the 25th anniversary reissue of Out of Time, the album that spawned singles Losing My Religion and Shiny Happy People, and which propelled them from being angst-ridden alt-rock darlings to being one of the biggest rock bands on the planet.The reissue features an extended package of demos from the making of the album, not that the band have listened all the way through to them. “Any musician will tell you that demos stay hidden for a reason” said Mills. “They are like sausages and laws, you don’t want to see how they get made. I listened to just enough of each demo to know I wouldn’t be humiliated.”Stipe added that he had been “horrified” by the demos. “To me it’s part of a process. You’re seeing me reach for something, stretch for something, and often not quite getting there.”But Mills also explained releasing them was about giving something back to fans. “As a fan, I’d be curious about them” he said.The two also spoke about recent political developments in the US. Stipe, a vocal supporter of Bernie Sanders, said that “as an American, as a world citizen, as a New Yorker, as a person of conscience” he was worried by the election of Donald Trump.“Clearly it was a protest vote against the establishment. Rather than people voting for a racist xenophobic agenda, I think they were just trying to smash the machine. I was not a giant fan of Hillary Clinton, but clearly between the two, she is accountable. I don’t think Trump is particularly accountable. But we need to get over the grief, and get on with it.”Mike Mills stated that “Middle America had been hollowed out by the Democrats and Republicans for, well, pick a number, thirty or forty years. Washington is completely corrupt, they don’t think of anything outside their little bubble. Due to a large number of factors the American middle class doesn’t exist anymore. They voted like this to send a message.”You can watch the interview in full below, where the band also discuss how surprised they were by the success of Out Of Time, talk about how REM went about writing songs, and what their younger selves would think of where they ended up.Michael Stipe thought young REM would find them to be a little bit “square and sentimental. And I look like the falafal guy.”The 25th anniversary reissue of Out of Time is available now as 2-CD, 3-LP, and a deluxe 4-disc set. They include a remastered version of the album alongside demos and b-sides.