Snapshot: Rosa, who was like a grandparent to meThis photo was taken on 31 July 2010. It’s my wedding day. The person next to me isn’t my English husband’s grandmother, but my dear friend Rosa Mech. She was 46 years older than me.I met Rosa when I was in sixth form studying for my A-levels and I had a weekend job at a hospital in Wimbledon. She worked the late shift seven days a week. The first time we met her, she frightened me. Rosa was fierce. She moved like the Trunchbull and even the matron was scared of her. On our first introduction, in classic comedy manner, I clumsily dropped a tray of sloppy hospital food on her. That was the beginning of our long friendship of over 15 years.Rosa was the ultimate rebel. At 19 she packed her bags and left her village in Austria and settled in the big smoke of 1950s London. Because she spoke German, she was greeted with postwar xenophobia. She worked in the theatre doing hair. Her long-term Irish boyfriend, Tony, had wooed her and then stolen all her money. She eventually married Victor, who had served in the Polish army. They met at a deli and grew fond of each other. Victor was more than 30 years older than Rosa.Acknowledging the taboo of the age difference, they went their separate ways. A year later, they bumped into each other outside South Kensington tube station and never spent a day without each other until Victor died in the early 90s. They never had children, or visited each other’s homeland. Victor was long dead when Rosa and I met.We spent many Christmases together. She had no family and because I am a Muslim, we worked the festive shift at the hospital. I never really knew my grandparents, because they lived in Bangladesh. When my A-level results were a disappointment to me, Rosa’s words of wisdom showed me that it wasn’t the end of the world as I had imagined.Retuning home from university for the holidays, we met for lunch. We would go for drives and long walks in Richmond park. She taught me how to knit, bake little Austrian biscuits, mend socks and even speak some German.She had sent apologies for not being able to attend the wedding. The day would be too long and her arthritis was a fiend. Yet there she was, sitting in the corner with a big smile on her face.Rosa died in 2014. When the hearse arrived I cried uncontrollably. I hadn’t felt this type of grief before. She had been there for me during big milestones in my adult life. I wonder what people thought of us when they saw us together outside. That I was her carer, I imagine. She was a combination of a great female friend and the grandparent I never really had. I miss her.Lubjana Matin-ScammellPlaylist: A record that got stuck in my heartSafety Pin Stuck in My Heart by Patrik FitzgeraldI’ve got a safety pin stuck in my heart for you, for you   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’m from an Irish Catholic family of seven children, with five sisters and a brother, Sean, who is significantly older. Other than family, music is probably the single thing that has defined my life, and I’ve just begun to realise how interconnected the two have always been.Mum and Dad were poor Irish farmers who came to Liverpool in the 1950s and music was never a big thing in our house. The first artist I really took to was Elton John, and when I was 11 I remember my sister Trish bunked off her convent school one morning to queue up to get us two tickets to see Elton at the Liverpool Empire. That was my first gig, in about 1975, and I’ve been a live music fanatic ever since. To make sure I could see everything Trish got me to stand on my seat in the stalls while she made sure I didn’t fall off! That afternoon we’d also managed to get Elton’s autograph. We’d been in town and saw a fancy car (this was around 1975 so there weren’t many of them in Liverpool) and legged it after the car to the steps of the Adelphi hotel where a very charming Elton signed my brand new autograph book.When punk arrived my life changed for ever. I was 15 and this new music and movement took over my life. The record that for ever sums up that period for me is Safety Pin Stuck in My Heart by Patrik Fitzgerald – I heard it first on the John Peel show. Come Saturday, I went into town with my mates and brought the record back to play it about 20 times in a row on our little mono record player.I’m not sure how my family let me get away with inflicting this terrible racket on them, but they did. Looking back I think they indulged me because me they knew I was so passionate about it. When I got my hair cut into a spiky punk style my Mum, Dad and sisters were remarkably OK about it.There weren’t many punks in Bootle and for some reason my house, without any conscious decision being made, became the place where our strange little gang hung out. We sat in my icy room and played our singles.Some of these other punk kids got given a hard time by their parents and siblings but my family were different. They didn’t just tolerate my obsession and my weird-looking mates, they welcomed the whole package with open arms and only the occasional collective shake of the head. If they hadn’t been so understanding I would guess that my life would have been very different.Sometimes my sisters still do my head in, but mostly I’m just grateful to them for letting their silly brother get on with having spiky hair and listening to music that didn’t have a proper tune.Kevin McManusWe love to drink: Great-uncle Pinson’s squirrel’s milkIngredientsA cup or two of snow A cup of milkA shot of bourbonMaple syrup to tasteA sprinkle of nutmeg or cinnamonAdd a crackling fire and a few friendsThis is a deliciously simple drink. If you’re in the north and have snow, well, gather some. Avoiding the yellow. My brother still won’t drink squirrel’s milk, recalling an experiment in first grade where they examined dirt, grit and other detritus in a jam jar as the snow turned to water. He doesn’t know what he’s missing. If you’re germ conscious, crushed ice and a whirr in the blender will do just fine.   Dana’s delicious squirrel’s milkThe blizzard wasn’t bad news in the Blueridge mountains ... I’m just back from a visit to my American family. It was good remembering great Uncle Pinson with his wife Gail, a spry and gorgeous septagenarian, game for anything the snow could offer. He was a descendant of the Cherokee. His generosity and his beautiful tribal headdress still linger in my memory. As kids we found the directions for his recipe hilarious: first catch your squirrel then squeeze … Now when the snow begins to accumulate, we put on our boots and goggles and walk to the general store for milk. Then we head out into the deep drifts with a bowl.  Dana LittlepageWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We love to eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number