An anonymous collector has donated the Edwardian piano on which Ralph Vaughan Williams composed The Lark Ascending, twice voted the nation’s favourite piece of 20th-century music, and many other works including his stirring theme music for the film Scott of the Antarctic. It is now on display and will be used regularly for recitals at the composer’s childhood home, Leith Hill Place in Surrey.Despite Vaughan Williams’ affluent middle-class background, the piano was not a glamorous piece of drawing room furniture but a comparatively modest Broadwood upright, with the model name Honeysuckle. He bought it secondhand direct from the firm in 1905, possibly at a “mate’s rate” price since the Broadwood family were friends and near neighbours.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leith Hill Place, the childhood home of Ralph Vaughan Williams. Photograph: Andrew Butler/National TrustThe piano was kept in his study and in daily use for decades. Many of his lush orchestral pieces were first performed on the piano for a circle of friends and fellow musicians. He took it with him to his home at Cheyne Walk in Chelsea, and when he moved to Dorking in Surrey.Vaughan Williams was brought up in Leith Hill, his grandmother’s home, after his father died when he was just two. He left to study at Cambridge when he was 20.Although Vaughan Williams gave the house to the National Trust in 1945, it was tenanted for decades by a boys’ school, and only opened to the public three years ago. The interior is still largely unfurnished, though the trust is collecting objects associated with the composer and his life. Since the Dorking house where the piano was most in use no longer stands, the trust decided that Leith Hill was the most appropriate place to display – and use – an instrument so intimately connected with his work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ralph Vaughan Williams. Photograph: Ralph Vaughan Williams Charitable TrustThe house dates from at least the 17th century, and possibly has even older foundations. Vaughan Williams’ maternal family were Wedgwoods and Darwins, and the composer’s great uncle, the naturalist Charles Darwin, was a regular visitor in the 19th century and conducted experiments in the grounds.The piano has been carefully restored to playing condition before going on display, and the property manager, Gabrielle Gale, said they were thrilled to have it. “It is quite an unassuming instrument, said to suit the character of the man, and it sat in the composer’s study where he used it daily to try out musical ideas, so it is a workhorse rather than a concert piano,” Gale said.“In keeping with the spirit of the composer, who believed that music should be enjoyed by everyone, the piano will be played on certain days and for special events at the house.”