Moments after the world premiere of A Dark Song, a touching Irish film about loss and forgiveness, I was on a school bus headed to a boxing gym where two men fought about the virtues of Rocky IV. This is a fairly typical set of back-to-back events at Austin’s Fantastic Fest, a marriage of the smartest and edgiest in international cinema blended with madcap hijinks (festival co-founder Tim League introduced Morgan Spurlock’s documentary Rats by gobbling a bowl of cooked rat with his own bare hands. Has Cannes’ Thierry Fremaux done this? I think not!). If cinephilia has a Burning Man, it’s this annual event, which lands smack dab in the oh-so-serious autumn cycle of the Venice, Telluride, Toronto and New York film festivals. I can tell you that attending those noble, grown-up events year after year really does begin to resemble work; Fantastic Fest is my summer camp.Miss Peregrine’s Home For Peculiar Children review: mordant British YA X-Men is Tim Burton's best in 20 years In its twelfth year, Fantastic Fest’s edgy Venn diagram mixes whacked-out midnight films with more traditional awards season titles. This year saw screenings of Arrival, Elle, Toni Erdmann, American Honey, The Handmaiden and A Monster Calls between the you’ll-never-see-this-anywhere-again films from far-flung corners of the globe (more on those in a bit). Asking “what is a Fantastic Fest movie?” is a bit like asking “what is jazz?” You know it when you see it and, more importantly, some people just aren’t wired to like it. But for those who do, this mass dosage of unusual offerings is a respite from the glut of predictable Hollywood dross.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dolph Lundgren and Alamo Drafthouse CEO Tim League. Photograph: Jack PlunkettBased entirely at the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema’s mothership in Austin, it’s the best film festival if only because it’s so easy to catch five screenings in one day, thanks to the theater chain’s gimmick of delivering meals directly to your seat. And beer – let’s not forget the beer. The beer was free at the boxing match – the Fantastic Debates, they are called – where movie lovers argue and then put on the gloves. Special guest Dolph Lundgren emerged from the wings to rally the after-midnight crowd to a froth as we clutched our complimentary suds. All he had to do was say “if he dies, he dies” (Lundgren was in town to screen one of his latest action slammers, Don’t Kill It – it wasn’t just to pop-in at a strip mall somewhere in the middle of Texas).The special events are a key component of Fantastic Fest, and this year saw some new additions. Three virtual reality stations, care of Dark Corner studios, showed how this new technology is indeed emerging as its own art form, beyond mere parlor trick or video game enhancement. Most notable was Mule, a short film from the director Guy Shelmerdine in which you, lying in a coffin with an Occulus Rift device strapped to your head, get to experience a heroin overdose in a cheap motel (before you lie down, a VR usher asks if you prefer cremation or burial). “Women are often quite taken with looking down and seeing they have a penis,” Shelmerdine tells me about his R-rated production.Split review – James McAvoy is 23 shades of creepy in M Night Shyamalan chiller Another new type of storytelling is found in the current fad of escape rooms, and the Drafthouse converted some of its karaoke rooms into a chamber of satanic horror (Satan and devil-worshipping are recurring themes at the festival, as is cannibalism). I’d never done an escape room before, as I’m usually of the mind that anything that gains popularity in Los Angeles before it comes to New York is suspect, but game co-designer Landon Zakheim tells me they emerged from Asia, so that shows you what I know. “It’s a story where you are the protagonist,” he says of his extremely clever and meticulously timed experience, in which you start off chained by the hands and feet and, if you win, emerge a disciple of Lucifer. “We figured this crowd would be okay with pleasing Satan being considered a victory.”Liam Gavin’s A Dark Song, which had its debut at Fantastic Fest (along with more mainstream titles like Tim Burton’s Miss Peregrine’s Home For Peculiar Children and the surprise showing of M Night Shyamalan’s Split) is an emotional, smart horror picture in which satanic rituals help bring a woman closure after the death of her son. It’s actually rather tender and poignant and could very well warm the cockles of mainstream America’s heart if it weren’t for all the blood-drinking and pentagrams.A similarly smart use of shocks is Julia Ducournau’s Raw, which, yes, is about the lust for flesh-eating, but if you look beyond that it is actually one of the more truthful and resonant coming-of-age stories I’ve seen in quite some time (and unlike at Toronto, where two weakling audience members passed out, I happily dined on a tasty hamburger with hatch green chili sauce while watching). Ivan I Tverdovsky’s Zoology feels like an exploitation film at first (it’s about a woman who grows a tail) but emerges as a finely observed drama about loneliness and misplaced trust.Zoology review: a woman with a tail is a role model for outsiders in this rare gem But not every film at Fantastic Fest is so noble. Bhin Banloerit’s The Dwarves Must Be Crazy is a bonkers story about demonic floating heads (with dangling intestines!) that terrorize a group of Thai little people by trying to eat their anuses. It is an endless parade of strange gross-outs and Three Stooges-like slapstick. Parts are truly funny, parts are achingly dull, and all of it is strange. What’s key, though, is that this isn’t just a bunch of jokers with an iPhone trying to make weird movies. The Fantastic Fest programmers scour the globe to bring titles that puzzle us, but they are always, in their own way, authentic.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest By that standard, the far-and-away winner was Bad Black, a production from Wakaliwood, a film-making facility run by Nabwana IGG in the slums of the Wakaliga section of Kampala, Uganda. They may have no indoor plumbing, but they do have a tremendous amount of creativity and humor. Nabwala IGG’s movies (and he has made over thirty) are shot on cheap video with horrendous special effects. What makes them so watchable is the glee with which the actors tackle the role, and the running Greek chorus commentary track. While the movie does have dialogue, there is a voice of God explaining and commenting on everything he sees with impeccable comic timing. (This has an interesting origin: when films first came to Uganda they were not dubbed, so when they were projected in video clubs, someone would talk over them to explain the scenes, even if he really didn’t know what was going on himself. That tradition has stuck, even as Uganda begins to make its own movies.) When a visiting white doctor turns into a killing machine and starts shooting up the place, our narrator cracks: “This doctor needs borders!” It got a bigger reaction than Shyamalan’s twist ending to Split.IGG made sure to include special messages for the Austin screening of Bad Black, making this no-budget film with a paper-thin story the most unexpectedly touching thing I saw at the whole festival. An early look at Hollywood movies while guzzling beer at parties is one thing, but an invitation to experience something direct from another culture is what I call truly fantastic.