Cellists, violinists and even the Queen’s Guard have covered Game of Thrones’s theme music but now fans will be able to see it performed on a whole battalion of instruments conducted by Ramin Djawadi, the composer. Tickets went on sale this weekend for the Game of Thrones Live Concert Experience, which will bring Djwadi, a full orchestra, and a choir to 28 cities across America beginning in February of next year. Game of Thrones concert experience hits the road in 2017 Djawadi got the idea when playing some new music to Game of Thrones creators DB Weiss and David Benioff. “They said, ‘I want to see this live. How cool would it be if we had a choir and an orchestra on stage?’”So which of the show’s music will fans hear? “We have so much material, I’m still digging through the pile of music,” Djawadi says, adding that he’s fine-tuned some of the arrangements and expanded on other pieces. “We have a pretty good idea of the scope of it, and the idea is to touch upon the different houses and themes and all of the great moments of the show.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Game of Tones: Isaac Hempstead Wright, who plays Bran Stark, and composer Ramin Djawadi. Photograph: Rob Latour/Rex/ShutterstockThose in attendance can expect intimate moments, like the Stark theme music, and more bombastic pieces like Mhysa, the song that plays during the third season finale. Speaking of season finales, Light of the Seven, the gorgeous accompaniment that kicked off the recent sixth season finale, is sure to be included or it might create a fan uprising that not even Cersei Lannister could suppress. While most of the experience will be aural, there will still be a visual component, with some footage of the show playing while the music is performed by the orchestra. Djawadi also promises that there were be some original footage shown too.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “What we’re planning on doing is building our own stage and have this be an immersive experience,” he says. “Game of Thrones has so many colors and locations, I want to take the audience to Westeros, so when we perform we want to have set designs and more involved visual elements.”This is not the first television show to take its music on the road. Both Glee and Nashville have mounted popular concert tours, but both of those featured cast members performing numbers that were popularized on the air. The Simpsons mounted a concert at the Hollywood Bowl in 2014, but that was only in one location for a weekend. This program is different not only for its scope, but also because it is mostly orchestral.Djawadi thinks that seeing some of the non-Western instruments he uses to create sounds will reward fans of the show and he is also excited at the prospect of performing a song or two. Djawadi composes on the piano, an instrument rarely used on the show. He ponders that a new arrangement of the theme music for the piano would be a good way for him to get in on the action, rather than just waving his baton. Of course, Djawadi doesn’t want to give away any spoilers. Of course, it’s in keeping with the spirit of Game of Thrones to keep everything deadly secret and then shock fans with an unexpected turn of events. Finally, there’s a chance to see that happen beyond our living rooms. 