Walking around the artistic quarter of Williamsburg in New York, known for its experimental graffiti, which ranges from stylized texts and tags to posters, stencils and stickers, there are now massive painted murals from Perrier, Volkswagen and Red Bull on the walls of old warehouses.In the nearby neighbourhood of Greenpoint, a wall that once held a beautiful and powerful image of Nelson Mandela has been painted over by a massive advertisement for Perrier.If you want a metaphor to describe everything that is going wrong in our society, look no further than this. Imitating street art – even as it replaces real street art – for advertisement is quite simply a violation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This Perrier advertisement in Brooklyn’s Greenpoint neighborhood in New York City, tackily co-opts the style of real street art, which it has painted over. Photograph: Jo Confino/GuardianThe advertising industry does not seem to recognise that there are some lines it just should not cross. It tends to co-opt and demean everything that has true value in our society, from relationships to spirituality, in order to fulfill the desire of its clients, to sell us more stuff.We’ve become accustomed to the huge billboards that hang on skyscrapers and glare at us from freeways. But companies and their advertisers have now gone beyond the pale by starting to undermine the very artistic movement that challenges the consumerist culture they create.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An example of real street art in New York. Photograph: Jo Confino/GuardianThe Mandela mural had quoted one of his most famous sayings: “it always seems impossible until it’s done.” How ironic that Perrier, which is owned by Nestle, undermines the very highest notion of human possibilities by doing the very thing that should not have entered the realms of possibility.The large 1960s style psychedelic image of a bottle of Perrier includes the hashtag #streetartperrier. Let’s hope that more people take the time to give them some constructive feedback, such as the environmental campaigner L Hunter Lovins, who tweeted “fake street art sucks”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Real street art – such as this piece in New York – isn’t aimed at selling stuff. Photograph: Jo Confino/GuardianPerrier’s description of its street art programme, which includes special bottle designs, drowns in its own hyperbole:  Once again, Perrier, the legendary natural sparkling mineral water, adopts a bold artistic inventiveness that will impress even the most blasé! Effervescence, creativity and pizzazz ... When Perrier tries its hand at street art, the result is as surprising as ever and totally in step with its time!”One can only marvel at the creative genius who came up with that paragraph in a desperate attempt to make a product we don’t need sound deeply trendy. In fact, it’s so over the top that it warrants reading again. It’s difficult to know whether to laugh or cry.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sheer scale of this mural – mirrored on the opposite side of the street by murals of the same size with other Volkswagen advertisements – wins it a prize for crassness. Photograph: Jo Confino/GuardianPerrier is hardly alone. Second prize for crassness goes to the German automaker Volkswagen, which has appropriated three huge spaces side by side with another directly across the street for exactly the same one dimensional and vacuous mural for its Golf. Many other examples abound.Of course, it’s not so much the lack of artistic merit that sticks in the throat, but the fact that these advertisements undermine the subversive qualities that define street art, which is in part derived from European revolutionary politics.But perhaps most insidious is that these companies are starting to put a price on what remains of our public space.  All sorts of companies are now using street art style to sell products.Photograph: Colossal Media/flickrThe whole point of street art is that it is an expression of the commons, a way for those at the edge of the system to showcase social activism without the need for money.At a time when we really need to question our compulsion to consume, we are being assaulted wherever we go by advertising. There is almost no escape from it.We are the addicts and the advertisers are the dealers. What has changed is that they are now on your neighbourhood corner, plying us with their equivalent of the next fix.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Street art frequently has a strong social message. Photograph: Jo Confino/GuardianI was initially surprised by the strength of my reaction to these murals, but I understand it now. They represent, for me, something that has become a sickness in our society and must be challenged.Companies and the advertising industry need to wake up and understand the simple truth – that what defines us are our limits and there are some spaces where they should fear to tread.Carry on, if you must, plastering outdoor posters, bus stops, shop windows, subway stations and the like with your false promises. But at the very least, give us back our streets.  Real street art in New York often attacks consumerism, making ads that use the style especially irksome.Photograph: Gabe Gross/flickr