Late-night hosts presided over special editions to discuss the election of Donald Trump as president, sharing similar concerns.Michael Moore has a 'morning after to-do list' for how to save America A rather subdued Stephen Colbert delivered an uncomfortable speech as the results started to show a Trump victory, saying: “We all now feel the way Rudy Giuliani looks.”During his live Showtime special, he spoke of America being more divided than ever and speculated about just how this election ended up so nasty.“How did our politics get so poisonous?” he said. “I think it’s because we overdosed, especially this year. We drank too much of the poison.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He also spoke about the danger of losing sight of what matters. “Politics is a lot of horse race and horse race is gambling and gambling is, according to the Bible, a sin because it’s in itself a poison,” he said. “Worrying about winning and not about what the consequences of winning is.”Colbert, visibly startled by the news, spoke about our collective relief that this election is at least over. “Now, politics is everywhere and that takes up precious brain space that we could be using to think of all the things we actually have in common,” he said. “So whether your side won or lost, we don’t have to do this shit for a while.”He added: “Keep your American flag up but you can take off your American flag hat.”Trevor Noah’s special arrived with the subtitle Democalypse 2016 and the host was suitably scared.“It feels like the end of the world,” he said. “I’m not going to lie, I don’t know if you’ve come to the right place for jokes tonight. This is the first time throughout this entire race where I am officially shitting my pants. I genuinely do not understand how America can be this disorganized or this hateful. I don’t know which one it is.”But Noah also found time to make a joke about Trump’s proposed wall between the US and Mexico and his plan not to pay for it. “I mean, right now, I don’t know if you’ve seen this, the Mexican peso is crashing, that’s what’s happening to Mexico’s currency, which means if Donald Trump wins, Mexico can’t afford to pay for that wall,” he said. 