 4.42pm BST Afternoon summary• Cynthia Bower, the former chief executive of the Care Quality Commisison, has resigned from her current job as a non executive trustee of the Skills for Health body after being named this afternoon as one of three executives involved in a decision to suppress a report identifying CQC failings.BBC Breaking News (@BBCBreaking)Ex-Care Quality Commission boss Cynthia Bower quits current job after being linked to Cumbria baby death "cover-up" http://t.co/q4WKgw35BbJune 20, 2013Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, has welcomed the publication of the three names.Jeremy Hunt (@Jeremy_Hunt)Pleased to receive CQC letter naming the individuals involved. Clear sign NHS is changing. We must have accountability throughout the systemJune 20, 2013The CQC has also said it is taking advice "on whether there is any appropriate action that might be taken in relation to the named individuals".• William Hague, the foreign secretary, has said in a speech in Edinburgh that Scotland would be better off remaining in the UK. It is of course up to people in Scotland to decide in 2014 which way they want to go. It is my sincerest hope that Scotland votes to remain in the United Kingdom. But I am not here to make dire predictions or to issue dark warnings. However I do believe that this decision involves a clear choice in foreign policy:“On the one hand, is continued membership of the world’s sixth largest economy, represented at the G7, G8 and G20, with a permanent seat of the UN Security Council, and an established, influential and growing diplomatic network that is increasingly focused on trade and building up links with the Commonwealth and the fastest-growing parts of the world economy.“On the other is an uncertain future where Scots would have to face the inconvenience and tremendous burden of having to start again in world affairs, with a different passport for future generations, without that global network and enviable diplomatic position in the world, and without automatic entry to NATO and the EU.That's all from me for today.Thanks for the comments.Updated at 4.59pm BST 4.30pm BST CQC letter naming those attending the cover-up meetingHere's an extract from the letter that the Care Quality Commission has sent to Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, naming people apparently involved in the CQC cover-up We have reviewed the issues again with our legal advisers (and taken into account the comments of the Information Commissioner). In the light of this further consideration, we have come to the view that the overriding public interest in transparency and accountability gives us sufficient grounds to disclose the names of the individuals who were anonymised in the report.The report identifies the key actions and decisions taken by the individuals involved although, as the report makes clear, some of these actions are disputed. Nevertheless CQC has taken the decision to publish the names of the key individuals, both current and past employees of CQC that were either involved in the meeting, interviewed by Grant Thornton or who are referred to in the report.There were 4 members of staff present when the discussion about deletion occurred:Mr E: Cynthia Bower – former Chief Executive - Resigned Mr F: Anna Jefferson – media manager – Current Employee Mr G: Jill Finney – former Deputy Chief Executive - Resigned Mr J: Louise Dineley - Head of Regulatory Risk & Quality – Current EmployeeThe letter is signed by David Prior, the CQC chairman, and David Behan, the CQC chief executive.The full report about the cover up, which was released yesterday, is here (pdf).And here's what the report said about "Mr G" - Jill Finney. It starts at page 248. We reminded Mr G that the report had been sent to three people in total. He commented that there was no agreement on how to proceed and what to do about the report. He claimed that Mr F had said [in respect of the report] "Are you kidding me? This can never be in a public domain nor subject to FoI [a Freedom of Information request]And then it carries on from page 270. Mr J alleged to us in interview on 29 November 2012 that Mr G gave him an instruction to delete his report and that Mr E supported him in this, as did Mr F. According to Mr J, the reason for Mr G giving the instruction was that that report was damaging for CQC and posed an "FoI" risk.At interview, Mr J claimed that Mr G said to him "Read my lips" when he gave him the instruction.In support of his allegation, Mr J has produced a copy of his handwritten, contemporaneous note of the meeting which is the only record of the meeting's business we have come across ...On the evening following the meeting, at 20:35 hours, Mr J sent an email to Mr D in which he referred to the meeting he had attended earlier. He set out some of the issues that were discussed at the meeting. One of them he posed as a question: "Why is UHMB not another Mid Staffs?" He then answered the question.The note then records: "Advised by [initials of Mr G] (supported) by [initials Mr E] to delete file [the report] re FoI risk as negative and damaging 'Read lips' re delete" ...When we asked Mr G at the second interview if he had instructed Mr J to delete the report, he replied that he did not give such an instruction as he “would not have been authorised to do so” which, to us, was somewhat ambiguous, although preceded by a denial. Our conclusion, therefore, is that when given the chance to explain himself at two interviews, Mr G did not unequivocally deny giving Mr J an instruction to delete his report. Mr G has not produced to us any personal note of the meeting.Updated at 4.38pm BST 4.12pm BST David Cameron has been accused of perpetuating "harmful stereotypes" about vegans. Here's an extract from a news release I've just received from the Vegan Society. On 19 June the prime minister began his parliamentary statement on the G8 by saying that it had been one of the most peaceful G8s ever because there were so few protesters and that "one of the hopeful shopkeepers in Enniskillen had stocked up on vegan meals only to find that the protesters didn't really turn up in large enough numbers so now has a large supply going spare."Jasmijn de Boo, CEO of The Vegan Society, commented "David Cameron's comments imply that the G8 was only peaceful because the potentially violent, disruptive protesters kept away - and that they are vegans. Former US President and Nobel Peace Prize nominee Bill Clinton, as well as many well-known celebrities and environmentalists, are vegan and there are so many logical and compelling arguments for veganism - it just goes to show how truly out of tune with our times Mr Cameron really is. If he had made a similar statement suggesting any other minority group was made up of violent and disruptive protesters it would be met with an outcry rather than laughter. We suggest that the Prime Minister might like to pay the shopkeeper out of his own pocket for the vegan food so that it could be donated to a food bank."The Vegan Society was part of the peaceful IF coalition and Big IF London which called for change for the developing world. The Society also contributed written evidence to the recent DFID report on Global Food Security. As a result of that report, earlier this month the government called for everyone to cut down on meat. "Mr Cameron needs to see that he is perpetuating harmful stereotypes when he should be commending people who choose to live the peaceful and sustainable lifestyles that his own government recommends," continues de Boo. "The Vegan Society would welcome the opportunity to bring him up to speed over a delicious, nutritious, compassionate and sustainable vegan meal." 4.02pm BST The Press Association has just snapped this. Former Care Quality Commission chief executive Cynthia Bower, her deputy Jill Finney and media manager Anna Jefferson were today implicated in the alleged cover-up of the regulator's failure to investigate a spate of baby deaths, after CQC officials decided to name those involved. 3.41pm BST Sir Michael Wilshaw's speech from this morning on "unseen children" - children from poor backgrounds who underachieve in schools where this goes unnoticed because overall performance is satisfactory - is worth reading. You can find the full text here (pdf). Richard Adams has written a story for the Guardian with the key news points, but some of the detail in the speech is worth reporting too.Here are some of the points made by the Ofsted chief inspector.• Underprivileged white British children are the lowest performing of all ethnic groups in Britain. Success can be achieved in all communities. There have been striking changes to the pattern of achievement by the main ethnic groups in England over the last five years.  For example, Black African children have now caught up with - and Bangladeshi children have surpassed - the performance of White British children by the end of secondary school.Let me give you another example. There is now almost no difference between the GCSE results of children who speak English as their mother tongue and those for whom English is an additional language.  When we consider those children entitled to free school meals, it is the White British children who do worst out of all the main ethnic groups.The underperformance of low-income White British pupils matters particularly because they make up the majority – two-thirds – of such pupils. So the lowest-performing group of poor children is also the largest. If we don‟t crack the problem of low achievement by poor White British boys and girls, then we won‟t solve the problem overall.Let me emphasise, this is not a gender issue. Poor, low-income White British girls also do very badly. So we should stop talking about "white working class boys‟ as if they are the only challenge.• West Berkshire is the place where poor children do worst at school. Where do you think is the worst place in England to be a child from a poor family, in terms of educational opportunity? Is it inner London, Liverpool, Leeds or Manchester? Not at all. The evidence suggests that it‟s West Berkshire.  Disadvantaged children in this lovely, affluent part of south east England last year had:  - the worst attainment in the whole country at primary school - the second worst at secondary school - and were in one of the bottom three local authorities for qualifications at 19  West Berkshire is an example of a much wider problem affecting the relatively prosperous counties of south-east England. On the surface, the overall outcomes for these areas may look good but, for children eligible for free school meals, they hide deep and shocking failure.• But many areas have poor children who are underachieving, Wilshaw said. In many areas of the country, we have underachieving poor children…- in unremarkable schools . . .- with complacent leadership . . .- where there is poverty of expectation . . .- and lack of challenge by governors, parents or local authorities.Why, has education in seaside towns like Blackpool and Hastings been so poor?(Although I am pleased to see recent positive signs in Hastings itself.)Why is education so dire in much of Norfolk?Why does East Anglia have so few National Leaders of Education?Why are schools in Herefordshire and Shropshire letting down their Free School Meals pupils?Updated at 3.48pm BST 3.09pm BST Leo Hickman at the Guardian says it will take more than Owen Paterson to persuade the public to back GM foods. 2.37pm BST George Osborne has finally tweeted about President Obama name mix-up.George Osborne (@George_Osborne)One unexpected breakthrough from G8 - offer to sing with legend @_JeffreyOsborne. Jeff you wouldn't suggest a duet if you'd heard me singJune 20, 2013Osborne is referring to this offer from his namesake.  2.34pm BST Owen Paterson's GM crops speech - ReactionHere's some reaction to the Owen Paterson GM crops speech.FarmersFrom Peter Kendall, president of the NFU I applaud Owen Paterson for the leadership he is showing on this issue.The NFU agrees that the UK, which is the natural home for science research, should be at the forefront of providing agricultural solutions not watching from the sidelines.Rightly so, farmers fear being left behind. As Mr Paterson said, I also want British farmers to be able to develop the latest technologies so they can reap economic and environmental benefits.Environmental campaignersFrom Greenpeace UK's chief scientist Dr Doug ParrIt's a bit hard to take lessons on science from a climate-change sceptic. Paterson's inability to see the whole picture means he is missing the revolution in non-GM biotechnology which is making a real difference to lives now, while the GM lobbyists just carry on making promises. Paterson should be asking what works rather than blindly following agribusiness propaganda. The international consortium of research centres that kicked off the 'Green Revolution' has used non-GM techniques to produce dozens of varieties of drought-tolerant maize, increasing African farmers' yields by 20-30%. A host of other successes include blight-resistant potatoes and crops enriched with vitamin A, iron and other essential nutrients.Closer to home, a recent scientific study demonstrated that the package of biotechnologies chosen by Western Europe to grow maize is out-producing the GM-led package chosen by the US. GM's promises are being fulfilled, but not by GM.From Peter Melchett, policy director of organic campaign group Soil Association Owen Paterson's GM dream will make it harder to feed the world.The British Government constantly claim that GM crops are just one tool in the toolbox for the future of farming. In fact, GM is the cuckoo in the nest. It drives out and destroys the systems that international scientists agree we need to feed the world. We need farming that helps poorer African and Asian farmers produce food, not farming that helps Bayer, Syngenta and Monsanto produce profits.From Pete Riley, from campaign group GM Freeze, Changing the regulations on GM crop approvals is not something the UK can do without detailed negotiations with, and consent of, other EU Member States, and surely [Paterson] can't seek those changes from a UK platform without the agreement of the anti-GM governments in Wales and Scotland.Rather than making blanket calls for more GM, the PM needs to be very clear with voters about what he intends to do and why he is rejecting scientific evidence gathered right here in the UK that GM cultivation harms hard-pressed farmland wildlife.Apart from any other considerations, citizens across Europe are unconvinced that GM crops are the way forward, and the UK economy simply cannot afford to ignore the demands of our main food market.GM Freeze has asked the PM to explain why his government believes UK farmers should put their incomes at risk by growing crops no one wants to eat.CommerceFrom Mark Price, managing director of Waitrose I don't think the debate should be about just one particular technology like GM. We need to focus more broadly because GM is only one part in a bigger conversation around getting the most out of the land.The big challenge for us now is to educate that an organic carrot has been grown without any pesticides. We need to get customers to understand what organic means.PoliticiansFrom Lady Parminter, a Lib Dem peer The Liberal Democrats are not in principle opposed to the potential o0f looking at GM crops; what we need is all the evidence, both in terms of the health opportunities and risks, and crucially what Owen hasn’t covered very much today are the environmental risk and the economic risks.I sit on the House of Lords agricultural environment committee. Last year we were promised a review from Owen’s department about the economic and environmental effects of current GM crops. That report was promised [but] in November we chased it, it hadn’t come, in March it hadn’t come. We have to ask why aren’t we getting the full facts from the department before we make some decisions about the use of these crops.From Mary Creagh, the shadow environment secretary We must not ignore the role science can play in promoting human health and reducing our reliance on energy-intensive fertilisers and pesticides. However, the public rightly wants to know what is in their food and that their food is safe, so transparency in the approvals process and clear labeling is crucial.Updated at 2.39pm BST 2.16pm BST Here's some Press Association copy on Owen Paterson's visit to Rothamsted Research in Harpenden, Hertfordshire, where he delivered his GM speech. On his visit to Rothamsted Research in Harpenden, Hertfordshire, Paterson visited the field where the active GM crop trial is taking place.The field, which is surrounded by a high fence, has security guarding it 24 hours a day and signs warn of guard dogs. Everyone going through the gate next to the field had to sign a book as part of the tight security process - even Paterson. Before taking the trip out to see the crop trial, Paterson toured the laboratories and had a go at using a particle gun, which is used in the GM process.  2.01pm BST Lunchtime summary• Downing Street has undermined Owen Paterson's call for the European Union to allow more genetically modified food by refusing to fully back Paterson's claim that GM food is safe. Paterson set out his views in a major speech. (See 1.24pm.) But at the Number 10 lobby briefing the prime minister's spokesman was not prepared to say that David Cameron considered GM food safe. The spokesman just said there was no evidence that GM food was inherently unsafe. He also would not say whether Cameron would feed GM food to his children. I'll post more reaction to the speech later.• The Department of Health has said the Care Quality Commission will publish the names of the CQC staff involved in the cover-up of report showing the QCQ failed to investigate a failing hospital properly later today.• Nick Clegg has rushed out a statement to make clear he condemns "all forms of domestic violence" after he was attacked for declining to criticise Charles Saatchi for clutching the throat of his wife, Nigella Lawson. As Nicholas Watt reports, the deputy prime minister issued a clarification after Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, said Clegg should have condemned the incident outright after Saatchi accepted a police caution. Clegg was asked by a caller on his weekly LBC phone-in how he would have reacted if he had seen the incident between Lawson and Saatchi at Scott's restaurant in Mayfair. He said it was difficult to comment on the incident because there was "one photograph" and it may have been fleeting.• Clegg has highlighted the dangers of military intervention in Syria, warning that Britain must not become embroiled in a conflict it would struggle to influence.• Sir Michael Wilshaw, the Ofsted chief inspector, has said that many of the poor children being left behind in schools now are in suburbs, market towns and seaside resorts rather than in big cities. I'll post more on the speech this afternoon.• The Commons business committee has published a report on women in the workplace saying the government should force large firms to undertake equal pay audits.• George Osborne, the chancellor, has reportedly virtually concluded the spending review for 2015-16.• Official figures have shown that the number of homeless people recorded as spending a night on the streets of London has risen again, confirming that the mayor, Boris Johnson, has missed his ambitious target to end rough sleeping in the capital by the end of 2012.• Barack Obama mistakenly called George Osborne Jeffrey at the G8 summit, it has been revealed. The US president was thinking of the soul singer best known for his hit On the Wings of Love.• Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, has published his final guidelines for prosecutions relating to posts on social media. Here's an extract from his statement. I believe the guidelines do set out the right approach to prosecution by making the distinction between those communications that should be robustly prosecuted, such as those that amount to a credible threat of violence, a targeted campaign of harassment against an individual or which breach court orders, and those communications which may be considered grossly offensive, to which the high threshold must apply.These are cases that can give rise to complex issues, but to avoid the potential chilling effect that might arise from high numbers of prosecutions in cases in which a communication might be considered grossly offensive, we must recognise the fundamental right to freedom of expression and only proceed with prosecution when a communication is more than offensive, shocking or disturbing, even if distasteful or painful to those subjected to it.• People have been voting in the Aberdeen Donside constituency in a byelection for the Scottish parliament. The SNP are defending the seat. 1.24pm BST Owen Paterson's GM crops speech - SummaryThis morning Owen Paterson, the environment secretary, said that his speech on GM crops was "quite long" and that it would contain "quite a lot of detail". He's right. You can read it here and, unusually for a speech posted on a government website, it makes very good use of links. If you read the speech online, you will find plenty of links to source material justifying the claims that Paterson was making.Paterson made some of his arguments on the Today programme this morning (see 9.43am), but, in his interview, he did not include the attack on the European Union's regulatory regime that is at the heart of the speech.Here are the main points.• Paterson said that, while other parts of the world were embracing the advantages of GM production, Europe was being left behind. Since 1996 there has been a 100-fold increase in the global use of GM. Last year, GM crops were grown by 17.3 million farmers in 28 countries on 170 million hectares. That’s 12 per cent of all arable land – an area around 7 times the size of the United Kingdom.Farmers wouldn’t grow these crops if they didn’t benefit from doing so ...At the moment Europe is missing out. Less than 0.1% of global GM cultivation occurred in the EU. While the rest of the world is ploughing ahead and reaping the benefits of new technologies, Europe risks being left behind. We cannot afford to let that happen. The use of GM could be as transformative as the original agricultural revolution. The UK should be at the forefront of that, now, as it was then.• He said that EU farmers were already using imported GM material to feed their livestock. But he said the situation was completely different with crops. Only one GM crop has been approved for cultivation in the last 14 years, he said.• He said EU regulation was too strict. GM products which have passed the safety assessments remain stuck in the pipeline. I sympathise with the European Commissioner who has to grapple with divergent views across the EU.While I acknowledge the views of other Member States, I want British researchers and farmers to be able to develop the latest technologies so that they can reap the economic and environmental benefits. At the moment we are expecting them to respond to the challenges of global food security with one hand tied behind their back.This is deeply regrettable.It means that the prospect of crops coming through which offer solutions to UK-specific problems are many years away.We risk driving scientific and intellectual capital away from Europe for good. This will reduce our ability to develop and deploy crucial tools which could help ensure European agricultural production meets future demands while protecting the environment.• He said Britain's reputation as a centre for scientific research meant the country should embrace GM technology.• He said farmers had to embrace technological advances like GM because otherwise they would not be able to feed the world's growing population. The world's population was due to expand from 7bn to 9bn by 2050, he said. The recent OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook for 2012 to 2021 concluded that agricultural production needs to increase by 60 per cent over the next 40 years to meet the rising demand for food. Our growing population will put further pressures on land, energy and water - creating a food security risk. We need to adopt new technologies, of which GM is one, if we are to combat this.• He said GM food was safe. Over the past 25 years the EU alone has funded more than 50 projects on GM safety involving more than 400 independent research groups at a cost of around £260 million. Summary reports produced by the European Commission in 2000 and in 2010 reached two powerful conclusions:First, there was no scientific evidence associating GMOs with higher risks for the environment or for food and feed safety than conventional plants and organisms.Second, the use of more precise technology and the greater regulatory scrutiny probably makes GMOs even safer than conventional plants and food.• He said the people describing GM crops as "Frankenfoods" were deliberately - and wrongly - trying to pretend GM food was dangerous.• He said GM production could be good for farmers, consumers and the environment. He gave several examples. Here's one: The fungal disease late-blight remains a significant problem for potato growers. Tackling blight can require up to 15 separate fungicide applications a year. Before we skim over that fact, in practical terms that might see a heavy sprayer criss-crossing a field, burning diesel, compacting the soil, spraying the crop including surrounding plants and insects and emitting fumes. All this, up to 15 times a year.The total annual cost to the UK of controlling this disease is around £60 million and even then crops can still be affected. Both the Sainsbury Laboratory and BASF have trialled different types of GM blight-resistant potato in the UK. If this type of crop can be successfully deployed, it could deliver both economic and environmental benefits. As well as protection against devastating plant diseases, inputs like pesticides and fuel could be dramatically reduced.GM technology could also allow plants to be grown in land not previously used for farming, for example because of flooding, he said.• He said that humans had been adapting genetics through plant breeding for centuries.• He said he did not accept that farmers faced a choice between producing more or protecting the environment. Both were necessary, he said. More GM production could lead to more land being available for biodiversity, he said. If we use cultivated land more efficiently, we could free up space for biodiversity, nature and wilderness. Something I know a number of commentators have been calling for. Research undertaken by a team at Rockefeller University has found that over the course of the next 50 years new technology, combined with improved agricultural practices across the world, could release an area 2.5 times the size of France from cultivation.• He cited Norman Borlaug as an example of someone who showed quite how much could be achieved through applying technology to farming. Back in the 1940s, against a backdrop of war, famine and political instability, Borlaug helped initiate what became known as the Green Revolution. This revolution saw a series of technological advances transform crop production in developing countries. It’s no exaggeration that Borlaug is referred to as “the man who saved a billion lives”. His example demonstrates what mankind can achieve through the application of science.I'll post some reaction to the speech later. 12.42pm BST Nick Clegg has now put out a statement clarifying his comments about the Nigella Lawson assault. I completely condemn all forms of domestic violence.As I said on the radio, my instinct would always be to try and protect the weaker person, to try and protect the person who otherwise would be hurt.But I was asked a very specific question about how I would have reacted to a specific incident which I did not see.I said I did not know how I would have reacted to that specific incident because I do not know what happened.The point I was making is that I don’t know what other people in the restaurant saw and I don’t want to make a judgement on their reaction. 12.38pm BST   Jeffrey Osborne's Wikipedia page Photograph: /WikipediaSomeone has been tampering with Jeffrey Osborne's Wikipedia page. 12.29pm BST The Press Association has just snapped this. The Care Quality Commission is to publish the names of the officials at the centre of the cover up involving baby deaths in Cumbria, health minister Earl Howe disclosed today. 12.18pm BST Here's the full text of the Owen Paterson speech on GM crops.I'll post a full summary shortly.(I'm still planning to post some excerpts from the Michael Wilshaw speech, but I'll do Paterson first, so Wilshaw may have to wait.) 11.59am BST The LBC website has a full write-up of what Nick Clegg actually said when he was asked about Nigella Lawson and Charles Saatchi this morning.Here are the quotes in full. Clegg was asked how he would have reacted if he had been present when the hand around the throat incident happened. What a difficult question. I find it so difficult to imagine... I don't know what happened, I'm like you, I don't know what happened ...When you see a couple having an argument, most people just assume that the couple will resolve it themselves. If, of course, something descends into outright violence that is something different.I just don't know, there was this one photograph, I don't know whether that was a fleeting thing. I'm really sorry Elizabeth [the name of the caller], I am at a loss to put myself into that position without knowing exactly [what happened].You are asking me to comment on photographs everybody has seen in the papers - we don't know if that was a fleeting moment so I'd rather not comment on a set of events that I wasn't ...Let's say if a man who is much stronger than the woman is physically threatening the woman then I hope everybodies' instincts will be to protect the weaker person, to protect the person who is likely to be hurt.Trying to reimagine how you might react to very specific events which still are not entirely clear, that is the bit that I feel it is difficult to now comment. 11.50am BST Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, has now joined those condemning Nick Clegg for his comments about the Nigella Lawson/Charles Saatchi assault. (See 11.17am.) She has issued this statement. Nick Clegg revealed how little he understands violence against women this morning.Far too often violence against women is dismissed as fleeting or unimportant. Too often public institutions don't take it seriously enough. Domestic violence is still a hidden crime - and victims suffer or are ignored as a result.Mr Saatchi has accepted a police caution for assault and the images from the restaurant are disturbing. Ministers should show they are prepared to condemn this kind of violence against women and that they recognise the seriousness of domestic abuse. Nick Clegg completely failed to do that this morning.  Yvette Cooper. Photograph: London News Pictures/Rex Featu 11.46am BST You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the politics stories published yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.As for the rest of the papers, here's the PoliticsHome list of top 10 must-reads, here's the ConservativeHome round-up of today's political stories, and here's the New Statesman list of top 10 comment articles.As for the rest of the papers, here are four articles I found particularly interesting.• Peter Oborne in the Daily Telegraph says David Cameron should make Boris Johnson Conservative party chairman. To sum up: Conservative organisation is a mess of special agendas, secret influence, and back-channels of communication. Contempt for traditional party structures is complete, meaning that conflicting messages and operational incompetence have become the hallmark of the Tory machine. One MP told me so many people carried out the role of chairman that “if one of them won’t do what I want, I go and ask another”. As a result the superb work which is being carried out by many ministers is hardly recognised, while the relationship between Downing Street and Tory back-benchers and activists is the worst I can remember ...There is a very obvious solution, but it would require courage. Mr Cameron could bring in a heavyweight politician – his own Patten or Thorneycroft – with the vision and substance to shape his own election-winning machine. Such a character would, however, have to be given overall control. He or she could not be second-guessed by Downing Street.There are three candidates: William Hague, Michael Gove and Boris Johnson. Mr Hague, I am told, shudders at the thought of returning to the boredom, squalor and anxiety of domestic politics. Mr Gove cannot be spared from education. It is hard to think of any modern Conservative better suited for the job than Mr Johnson. Popular with the public, loved by the party, he has reinvented the rules of political discourse since becoming Mayor of London.• Sue Cameron in the Daily Telegraph says some Labour figures think Margaret Hodge should be the party’s candidate for London mayor in 2016.• The Daily Mail names two Care Quality Commisison executives who it says were “round the table” when the decision was taken to surpress a report showing that the CQC had failed to investigate a hospital where babies died through neglect.• James Lyons in the Daily Mirror says Sir Mervyn King will get a pension that could be worth £233,000 a year, and that it will rise with the RPI measure of inflation, not the less generous CPI used for state pensions. 11.17am BST In the Commons a few minutes ago the Labour MP Diana Johnson asked raised the issue of what Nick Clegg said on LBC about Charles Saatchi's assault on his wife, Nigella Lawson. (See 9.15am)This is what Johnson said to Andrew Lansley, the leader of the Commons. In light of the comments that have been reported this morning from the deputy prime minister, who described the Nigella Lawson incident of domestic violence as "fleeting" when we know that perpetrator has accepted a caution for assault, can we please have a debate on how seroiously the government take the issue of domestic violence.Lansley said the government was committed to doing everything it can to combat domestic violence.Here's what Clegg told LBC when asked if he would have intervened if he had witnessed the incident. The quote is from PoliticsHome. There was this one photograph. I don’t know whether that was just a fleeting thing or … I’m really sorry … I’m at a loss to be able to put myself in that position without knowing.The Conservative MP Sarah Wollaston seems equally angered by what Clegg said.Sarah Wollaston MP (@drwollastonmp)So just don't 'call Clegg' if your partner likes to grab you by the throat to emphasise a point http://t.co/P9MANYeWnIJune 20, 2013The Daily Mail's Tim Shipman says this is a major gaffe.Tim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound)Dear Mr Clegg, Mr Saatchi has accepted a caution. That is an admission of assault. All the best getting out of this one.June 20, 2013Tim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound)'Fleeting'-gate is very damaging for Clegg. He failed to act over Rennard rumours. He refused diversity training. Pattern of behaviour?June 20, 2013Tim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound)Nothing like a party leader screwing up before lunch to get the blood pumping...June 20, 2013 10.57am BST Here's the full text of Sir Michael Wilshaw's speech (pdf).I'll post a summary shortly. 10.52am BST In the Commons at business question Angela Eagle, the shadow leader of the Commons, pointed out that, following the award of an honour to Andrew Stunell last week, 14% of Lib Dem MPs now have knighthoods. There are more knights on the Lib Dem benches than women, she said.I'd love to know what Peter Mandelson has to say about Stunell's gong. Stunell was on the Lib Dem negotiating team during the coalition talks after the 2010 election and Andrew Adonis's new book about those talks, 5 Days in May, recalls what Mandelson said about Stunell after the Lib Dem and Labour teams met for the first time. Who is he? He looks like one of those classic pavement Liberals. I've never seen him before - why did they bring him?Adonis recalls that Ed Balls and Ed Miliband, who were also on the Labour negotiating team, both said they had never seen Stunell before either.  Andrew Stunell (left) and David Laws arriving at the Cabinet Office in May 2010 for coalition talks. Photograph: Graeme Robertson 10.25am BST For the record, here are today's YouGov GB polling figures.Labour: 38% (no change from YouGov yesterday)Conservatives: 32% (up 1)Ukip: 13% (up 1)Lib Dems: 10% (no change)Labour lead: 6 points (down 1)Government approval: -33 (up 1) 10.09am BST Sir Michael Wilshaw, the Ofsted chief inspector, is delivering his speech now. As Richard Adams reports, he wants superteachers should be parachuted into areas with "mediocre schools".  Sir Michael Wilshaw Photograph: /Sky NewsOn Radio 5 Live this morning Christine Blower, the NUT general secretary, said that, instead of sending special headteachers to failing schools, it would be better to get schools to cooperate. Rather than talking about a cohort of teachers who go round and work in particular schools, for we don’t know how long, we do think it would be a really good idea to replicate the London Challenge idea where schools worked together to improve performance. That’s demonstrable by how well London schools are doing now.I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome. 10.02am BST Jeffrey Osborne, the soul singer, has been commenting on the news that President Obama has mistaken him for George Osborne. Some people might be horrified, but Jeffrey did not seem to mind. This is what he told Sky News. I was really delighted, actually. I was really not aware that [Obama] was that much of a fan that he would call the chancellor Jeffrey Osborne. Tell the chancellor when I come over I will have to hook up with him and we will do a duet of On The Wings Of Love, or something. 9.50am BST Just in case Barack Obama is reading, here's some Jeffrey Osborne.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close And here's the other Osborne.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close It's not that hard to tell them apart.Updated at 9.57am BST 9.43am BST Owen Paterson's Today interview - SummaryOwen Paterson, the environment secretary, was speaking about the themes of his speech in an interview on the Today programme this morning. Here are the main points.• Paterson said that he thought the next generation of genetically modified crops offered "the most wonderful opportunities to improve human health". As an example, he cited the example of golden rice, a GM food that can reduce blindness in children in developing countries. Up to 500,000 children go irreversibly blind every year, he said. Yet attempts to promote golden rice were being blocked. I think all those who have thwarted the attempts to bring in this – for free, don’t forget – should really reflect. Those are real young people, and today, young people will wake up this morning able to see, and they’ll do to bed blind for life.• He said that in some other parts of the world the use of GM crops was considered normal In other parts of the world, GM is being adopted as normal practice. In 2012 there were 17m farmers in 28 countries growing GM crops on 170m hectares. That’s 12% of the world’s arable land or, very roughly, seven times the surface area of the whole of the UK. So these crops now established; they’re part of normal life, they’re part of normal agricultural production, they’re part of people’s everyday diets.• He said that there had been extensive research into GM crops and that "there was no scientific evidence associating GMOs with higher risk for the environment, or for food, or for feed safety than with conventional plants or organisms". In fact, GM food could be safer than normal food, he said. The use of more precise technology and the greater regulatory scrutiny probably makes GMOs even safer than conventional plants and foods. The European Commission’s chief scientist, Anne Glover, has stated it pretty bluntly: she said there is no substantiated case of any adverse impact on human health, animal health or environmental health.GM crops were already being used extensively in some parts of the world and this amounted to "the biggest field trial in human history", he said. Just go back to what the European Commission’s chief scientist has said: there is no substantiated case of any adverse impact on human health. There has been this enormous amount of material, has been eaten, and not a single case has been brought to my attention.I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome.Updated at 1.24pm BST 9.26am BST Nick Ferrari is now asking Clegg if he supports a campaign for the three women who intervened after the attack on Drummer Lee Rigby at Woolwich to get the George Medal.Clegg says he thinks the women should have their courage recognised. He says he is not sure about what the exact process is for awarding a George Medal. 9.21am BST On Call Clegg Nick Ferrari asks how Nick Clegg reacted when Barack Obama saw him at the G8 and said he was the better looking half of the coalition. (That's also in the Sun story.)Clegg says Obama was the best looking of the three of them.And how did Cameron react when Obama got George Osborne's name wrong?Clegg says he was not there. People get names wrong. Ferrari could call him Neil, he says. And he says he calls Boris Johnson "slacker" Johnson (because Johnson is going to do an LBC phone in, but only once a month.)Updated at 9.22am BST 9.15am BST On Call Clegg someone asks about the Nigella Lawson story. What would Nick Clegg have done if he had been in the restaurant and he had seen Charles Saatchi with his hand around her neck.Clegg says he does not know what he would have done. From the photograph, you cannot tell how the situation was developing. Normally you assume couples will resolve their arguments. But if violence was involved.The questioner asks what Clegg would have done if he had been sitting next to the couple, and if he had seen a man put his hands around a woman's neck.Clegg says he was not there, and he does not want to comment on something he did not see.But, in general, if he saw someone stronger attacking someone weaker, his instinct would be to intervene.Then he goes back to the former point; he does not know the full story in this case.  Nigella Lawson and Charles Saatchi Photograph: Frank Doran/Rex Features 9.01am BST It’s not the most important story of the day, but it’s easily the most fun - the Sun’s account of what happened when George Osborne addressed the G8. MUSIC fan Barack Obama kept getting George Osborne’s name wrong after mixing him up with one of his favourite soul stars — Jeffrey Osborne.The President explained his confusion to the Chancellor as he apologised for calling him “Jeffrey” three times at the G8 summit of the world’s wealthiest nations.A witness dubbed the series of slips “a visibly crushing blow” to the Chancellor.Perhaps that explains why, according to Gary Gibbon on his Channel 4 blog, David Cameron told colleagues that Obama was strangely detached at the summit and that his contributions were pretty minimal.But that's enough frivolity. The main event this morning seem to be Owen Paterson's speech on genetically modified crops which probably won't be a barrel of laughs, but which nevertheless sounds detailed, interesting and important. I'll be covering it in detail. Paterson has been talking about it in an interview this morning and I'll post some of his comment soon.Here's the agenda for the day.9am: Nick Clegg hosts his Call Clegg phone in on LBC.10am: Sir Michael Wilshaw, the Ofsted chief inspector, gives a speech on access and achievement in education. As Richard Adams reports, Wilshaw will say that new superteachers should be parachuted into areas with “mediocre schools” as part of a drive to improve education for poor children “unseen” by the current system.10am: The Commons business committee publishes a report on women in the workplace.10.30am: Owen Paterson, the environment secretary, gives a speech urging the public to accept the benefits of genetically modified food.11.30am: Christopher Graham, the information commissioner, holds a press conference as he publishes his annual report2pm: William Hague, the foreign secretary, gives a speech in Edinburgh saying the countries in the UK achieve more together.As usual, I’ll also be covering all the breaking political news as well as looking at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I’ll post a lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow.