 10.49pm GMT Late reactionAlan Key, managing director of Earth Trade, a company that specialises in biodiversity offsets in Australia. He says: Offsets are used in every State and Territory in Australia and have been for some time and I can assure you that there are very comprehensive methodologies, metrics and calculators developed and available that may be able to be adapted to the needs of the UK.One policy that may assist in strategic planning, is one of being able to develop Advanced Offsets. This is whereby environmental areas can be selected and prepared to replace development areas PRIOR To the impact of the development to prevent the loss of biodiversity on a “time factor” ie replacing high quality habitat with habitat.Owen Paterson has cited success in Australia as a key justifier for adopting the policy in the UK. But critics point out that the ecology, population density and land use in the two countries are significantly difference and inferences may be difficult to draw.Updated at 10.50pm GMT 6.32pm GMT My verdictIt is difficult to overstate how important it is for the government to get this piece of legislation right, should it decide to proceed. The EAC report, and many others, have highlighted serious deficiencies in the Defra green paper. These must be addressed in order to lend credibility to the policy's environmental ambitions.Scientists, green groups and the EAC have asked the government how it proposes to deal with the inherent riskiness of these proposals. The 2010 Lawton report articulated the gravity of the decision by saying biodiversity offsetting, should it be poorly implemented, could streamline the destruction of the UK's native habitats.The question, in my mind, revolves around this issue of risk. There has been quite a lot said today about managing the risks involved in relocating a habitat or species. Beyond this, the wording of the green paper does little to ease anxiety about the potential for development to damage ecosystems without fully understanding how to compensate for it.Throughout the green paper the government shies away from placing ultimate restrictions on development. This is worrying. Covenants come with caveats and ancient woodlands are fair game if there is overriding public interest. There is little clarity about the duration of offset programmes and it seems unworkable to lock businesses into managing reserves in perpetuity (even if this is desirable from an environmental point of view).In defence of the proposals, they are not intended to replace existing safeguards. So species and places currently protected by the law will be remain under these auspices. This means that most offsetting will occur in low- to moderate-value environments, such as grasslands, which may be more transferrable than others and even benefit from the monetary injection of an offset market.But the overriding feeling is that there is an urgency on the part of the government to implement this policy. The push is certainly not coming from the environmental sector, ecologists, the EAC and green groups urge caution. This is despite the fact that current planning procedures are perceived as inadequate guardians of nature.Defra has rushed out a green paper that has been slated by many as simplistic, under-researched and premature (especially in regard to the incomplete pilot programme). This leads to the conclusion that the need to streamline development projects is being prioritised over the need for rigorous environmental protection.Owen Paterson's green paper introduction places the two on an equal footing (although, throughout the document the economy is mentioned first every time the two are mentioned together): England faces the twin challenges of growing its economy and improving its natural environment. These are my first two priorities for Defra, and provide the impetus for this green paper. Paterson's representation of the environment and the economy as twin challenges leads to the illusion of equal scale. This seems perverse when you consider the state of British construction industry against its environmental counterpart. Britain is undergoing something of a construction renaissance with five consecutive months of growth to October across commercial, residential and public sector construction projects. However the country's biodiversity continues to suffer massive, sometimes irreversible decline. The economy acts more like the cuckoo in the nest.Updated at 10.11pm GMT 4.40pm GMT Key issue: Where would offsets be located?Removing areas of natural significance from local areas could impact people's ability to connect with nature. The EAC findings were adamant that everyday connections with nature must not be diminished by their relocation to distant areas. Any offsetting scheme should take account of reduced public access to the biodiversity being lost with development. Distant offsets might be contemplated, especially if they benefit ecosystem networks and if the public has little or no access to the development site. Where local people's enjoyment of habitats and wildlife would be directly affected, on the other hand, offsetting decisions should be considered at the lowest planning authority level possible. This would have the additional benefit of allowing that authority to be able to give full weight to both the loss and the gain under its jurisdiction.The Woodland Trust conducted a survey of 578 supporters asking them where they would prefer to see offsets occur. 336 respondents said reparation should occur 'within a set distance' of the original site. The Trust said this "was perceived as the most local response but also the most enforceable".Karl Mathiesen (@KarlMathiesen)Where would you prefer to see biodiversity offsets located? #ecoaudit @WoodlandTrust pic.twitter.com/DQ3wZmgsRVNovember 12, 2013 4.27pm GMT Future actionsThere is little clarity from Defra about when they will announce whether biodiversity offsetting legislation will be drafted. A spokesperson told me: “Biodiversity offsetting could help improve our environment as well as boost the economy. This report, along with other consultation responses, will help us get the detail of the policy right. We will formally respond to the report in due course.”The project pilots will be completed in April 2014, however there is no guarantee the government will wait for these results.  4.22pm GMT Defence of BO from the Environment BankThe Environment Bank is an early manifestation of what would inevitably be an enormous new industry created to service biodiversity offsetting. It provides developers with site assessments, based on the Green Paper metrics. The company also manages a register of offsetting projects and acts as a middle-hand within the offset market Defra hopes to create.Tom Tew, the bank's chief executive told my colleague Damian Carrington in September: "I think FoE and others completely misunderstand how biodiversity offsetting works. It is not a licence to trash, it is the complete opposite. When you put a value on biodiversity, you are putting a financial incentive for developers not to trash it."The bank was critical of the lack of detail in the Green Paper: If society is ever to ‘mainstream’ the value of the environment into its decision-making then there is a compelling need to introduce biodiversity offsetting on some mandatory basis. We believe the Green Paper could have set out this case more strongly and that, as a result of the failure to do so, much of the arguments against offsetting will be poorly based.The bank's report provides the follow advocacy for the concept: We consider that the case for change to the existing system is clear and evidenced; for example:Defra’s own research demonstrates that biodiversity was considered as material in only 1% of 10,235 applications; even where it was considered material it was rarely a reason for refusal; then, where mitigation or compensation was considered appropriate it was rarely delivered effectively.In 2007/8 the £98 bn construction industry incurred £4.9bn s106 obligations, but only £5m went on nature conservation schemes – in other words, environmental reparation is currently considered to be worth only one thousandth of the overall impact of development.Numerous ‘State of the Environment’ reports strongly evidence environmental loss in England – for instance, 500 species have gone extinct in the past 200 years, 60% of all species are declining across all major taxa – nature conservation in this country, including through the planning system, is not working.Developers were constantly frustrated by delays to their planning permission driven by species-based conservation issues, with millions of pounds lost through extending programme times and reduced net developable areas. Defra’s impact assessment suggests 0.5% of developable land could be freed at a saving of £20m – we believe this could be an underestimate by an order of magnitude (closer to 5% and £200m per annum).Conversely, the case for biodiversity offsetting is well-evidenced through international and national experience; offsetting will deliver:£57m savings to businesses through improved planning80% reduction in habitat lossconsistent and rigorous but transparent, fair and accountable treatment of environmental loss externalization of the cost of biodiversity loss into the planning system mainstreaming of biodiversity restoration and creation projects into British agriculture, with concomitant diversification of income and resilience opportunities for farmers increased business opportunities for support sectors (such as brokers, impact assessors, management plan experts and monitoring systems) new funding of in excess of £400M pa to conservation projects, with the potential for large-scale and long-term planning 3.57pm GMT Key issue: A more sophisticated metricBritish Ecological Society produced a useful report into the issue. One of the major concerns they raised, which was seconded by the EAC today, was the simplicity of the metric.  Extensive work has been carried out in uncertainty in conservation, and this has recently been extended to offsets. Current proposals for offsetting in England rely on the use of multipliers and habitat banking to address uncertainty. These are widely used tools, but have a loose scientific base. The use of more sophisticated solutions could increase the likelihood of success of any offset scheme. Tools for this are beginning to emerge, but further work to provide solutions and evidence to develop a robust foundation for managing uncertainty is required. Uncertainty may not be constant throughout the timescale of an offsetting scheme, and so it is generally more appropriate to assess and manage risks and uncertainty at each stage of a project to improve the likelihood of success. Multipliers should not be used to compensate for situations where there is a risk of offset failure.The Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM), which has practical experience with the metric agreed it needed improvement. It is clear that the metric takes something – biodiversity and habitats – that are inherently very complex and tries to simplify them for easier decision-making. This creates an inherent, but perhaps unavoidable, risk of oversimplification. For example, there is a there is a danger that if the metric is not a reflection of the true biodiversity resource, habitats will be undervalued resulting in a continued loss of biodiversity. Any metric must be based on sound science and evidence. The risks of such an approach need to be acknowledged and mitigated. The metric assumes a rather simplistic approach to how habitats are established and sustained – the reality is complex and challenging, especially when one considers the development of soil and hydrological regimes. The Government might like to consider acknowledging that the current metric is a simplistic approach to a complex system and demonstrate a policy and financial commitment to ongoing research to refine and improve the metric – research that can be informed by experience as the current metric is applied more widely than at present. Thus the metric needs to evolve over time and in the light of experience and knowledge.CIEEM members who have practical experience of using the current metric have commented that it is difficult to use. Added to this there are varying interpretations of the metric with at least three different calculation tools that CIEEM is aware of. There is certainly a need for guidance on implementation and use of the metric and CIEEM would be pleased to be involved in producing this. CIEEM would also be able to offer training on the implementation of biodiversity offsetting and we will be looking into means of providing this once Government has finalised its policy on offsetting.Updated at 4.55pm GMT 3.42pm GMT Key issue: How will offsets be guaranteed?Emma Marrington, from the Campaign to Protect Rural England (CPRE) says there is no clear provision for guaranteeing habitats created under a biodiversity offsetting scheme. One idea put forward by the Green Paper is a covenant scheme which would: Place conditions on how the land could be used and could require it to be managed in certain ways for the benefit of biodiversity. Most importantly the covenant would be binding on whoever owns the land so the biodiversity benefit would be maintained even if it changed hands. This would ensure the land was managed for biodiversity gain.Marrington's concern comes from the following sentences, which read: However the covenant could be released if, through a planning decision, it was considered developable land. As offsets would be of biodiversity interest careful consideration of the mitigation hierarchy would be required before an offset site could be developed, including taking compensatory action if significant residual harm could not be avoided.Again the Green Paper seems to caveat an environmental measure with a loophole.   EmmaCPRE 12 November 2013 2:54pmJust to add to my previous post, here are a couple of other issues:• Along with species and habitat connectivity, the impact on local landscape character and wider amenity should also be a factor. National Parks, Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty and locally designated landscapes such as Areas of Great Landscape Value should be integrated into any scoring system to work out their role in ‘biodiversity units’.• At present there is no clear legal mechanism to secure offsets. The Green paper proposes that 'conservation covenants' could be a way of ensuring that a site is protected in perpetuity. We agree that it's a way to ensure that the developer has to provide and maintain the biodiversity offsetting scheme linked to their development. However, a particularly worrying, and seemingly overlooked aspect of the proposals in the Green Paper, is the statement that ‘the covenant could be released if, through a planning decision, it was considered developable land.’ This would mean that biodiversity offset sites could be developed in the future with no certainty of any compensation. Surely if the offsetting scheme is to become a trusted part of the planning system then it should not allow an offset site to be developed! Otherwise, offsetting could be considered a ‘licence to trash’ the environment... Emma, CPRE.Updated at 3.42pm GMT 3.12pm GMT Key issue: Local authorities may lack expertise to implement BOThe EAC raised concerns about the management and oversight of biodiversity offsetting. Sarah Jennings is the county ecologist for Devon Council, she told me BO would require careful oversight by qualified employees of the local authority. She said funding cuts to local council budgets may restrict the ability to implement the programme effectively. "If local authorities don't employ ecologists, don't have sufficient capacity, it's going to be very difficult to do it," said Jennings.Adam Dutton, an economist with the RSPB, tells me only 35% of councils employ ecologists.Adam Dutton (@AdamJDutton)@KarlMathiesen local authorities will need ecological expertise 2 make offset decisions. Currently only 35% of them have ecologistsNovember 12, 2013 2.50pm GMT Your comments   drsimevans 12 November 2013 10:45amI think your audit poses the wrong question. Even Owen Paterson says biodiversity offsetting will stand or fall on the details of the policy. If we get the details wrong it'll cause problems. That's why EAC is right to call for delay.   Albert Ravey 12 November 2013 10:54amIt is an excellent idea in theory, but the devil is in the detail. If the example you give - of the nightingales in Kent - is typical, then we should be worried. Everyone knows that a development will annihilate the nightingale population and that planting a few trees elsewhere will not work. That would be a nice box-ticking exercise for an unscrupulous council and dodgy developers and a big two fingers for concerned environmentalists. Sometimes, the housing needs to be offset; not the biodiversity.   Snarlygog 12 November 2013 12:22pmThis will be a mess - you can't transplant endangered species to another local and expect them to thrive - how will you replicate micro climates found in Cornwall if you need to build a retirement complex and a rare orchid is stopping development.   Mohark 12 November 2013 4:09pmUk's DEFRA started its planned policy for valuing nature & offsetting in time for Caroline Spellman to go to Rio 20, and at the same time that it tried to privatise our woodlands. Clearly DEFRA's planned process- calculate offset requirements, calculate>broker>facilitate conservation credits- must seem that it practically must wait for a rigorous pilot establishing that conservation assets can be financialised. Of the six government pilots, only Warwickshire's -where there is a biodiversity impacts assessment system in place- would seem to stand a chance of resisting this drive to make biodiversity into assets and to create markets to fully financialise them.Surely we need to consider how best our planning system can be made more democratic and transparent, and we need to put proactive policies in place to introduce carbon and biodiversity considerations into the planning system more effectively -as mandatory considerations.Perhaps this is already operating? I read in a recent European workshop FERN explaining the nature of two schemes where DEFRA/DLCG over-ruled civil society and local government intentions to preserve established biomes [in Gosforth North Tyneside and Southmoor Oxfordshire]. The brokers involved Environment Bank refused to reveal how the necessary monitoring would be done to give effect to the planning agreement.This gets uglier still when you step outside the UK, and see these markets developing- in terms of land and consultancy services as assets   Bonzetta 12 November 2013 4:21pmHow do you cost the 100 years or so it might take to grow a really big tree? The only real use of biodiversity offsetting should be to reflect the true cost of destroying/remaking some habitat - which in the case of something like ancient woodland...well, how do you do it? What price on many hundreds of years?   Lucyjuk24 12 November 2013 12:49pmI'm incredibly relieved to see that reaction from Joan Walley. I'm not surprised that the Tory view is that these pesky environmental issues should be hurried through and skimmed over, to ensure that some money can be made. I'm glad that there are some rational heads involved. Hopefully these won't be ignored.  Guardian contributor JoelMoveYourMoney 13 November 2013 11:58amI worked on a major offsetting pilot scheme in the state of Victoria Australia between 2006-08 as part of the DSE Native Vegetation Management Framework which looked to offset native vegetation losses with legal protection or re-planting elsewhere in the state. There were some major learnings from the project of direct relevance to the UK scheme.Issues.1. Tracking, monitoring & maintenance - initially the scheme was very poorly run & resourced, with small fragmented offsets on private land that were regularly not budgeted for necessary maintenance ie. fenced, weeded etc and offered little in the way of real biodiversity value.2. As the scheme progressed however, better maintenance & monitoring controls & flexibility was permitted meaning offsets could be grouped together to advance Govt conservation aims like establishing regional bio-links for endangered species, which to my mind was a major positive as compared to ad-hoc small scale like-for-like offsets which in many cases were just a box ticking exercise. 3. As projects (and therefore clearance) could not proceed without offsets being secured, owners of offsets could hold out to drive a higher price knowing developers would either have to day for construction delays, or cough up for the higher price.4. Rare habitat types like Victorian plains grassland on the Melbourne suburban fringe being very difficult to find & replace were commodified and bought up at scale by industry insiders knowing coming development would render the habitat extremely valuable when offsets were required in future.In my view, the major benefit of the scheme was that it drove incentives for habitat improvements linking both public and private land. It's a pity it only did so on the basis of clearing remaining vegetation and habitat elsewhere.Updated at 12.09pm GMT 2.48pm GMT Twitter reactionBucks & MK NEP (@BucksMKnep)@KarlMathiesen Pls follow and promote our 'live' Twitter chatter this Wednesday from our workshop with @BTVLEP @NaturalEngland @EnvAgencyNovember 12, 2013Neil Verlander (@neilvic)@KarlMathiesen Biodiversity offsetting - Friends of the Earth's response to MPs' report: http://t.co/eadtJaPYASNovember 12, 2013Simon Marsh (@RSPBplanner)@karlmathiesen @PlanningMag Views of RSPB's Martin Harper's on offsets: http://t.co/vC25DZ4oirNovember 12, 2013Kevin Gatt (@KevinGatt)@karlmathiesen Before biodiversity is valued in financial and economic terms the true value can never be understood by mainstream societyNovember 12, 2013RSPB News (@RSPBNews)#RSPB's Martin Harper says we hope Government ensures biodiversity offsetting plays part in stemming wildlife loss http://t.co/3lyhcTjq0vNovember 12, 2013Hywel Arnold (@existais)The fallacy at the heart of the Governments biodiversity offsetting proposals | a new nature blog http://t.co/5vvGd8EoGANovember 12, 2013Christopher Price (@CLAChristopher)@dpcarrington @guardianeco Opponents of offsetting need to explain how else to pay for biodiversity in the long term. CAP wont last foreverNovember 12, 2013CLA (@CLAtweets)Countryside will flourish with the right biodiversity offsetting, says CLA http://t.co/zcuo9FKthzNovember 12, 2013Updated at 6.43pm GMT 2.46pm GMT Biodiversity offsetting critiquesI have received a lot of communication from organisations and individuals who are very critical of biodiversity offsetting. Their criticisms tend to centre on the fear that the policy is intended to benefit developers, rather than the environment.The Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management produced its own report in response to Defra's Green Paper. The conclusions reflected the general sense that the government are putting the cart before the horse. We are concerned at the overall tone of the document, which seems to be aimed at enabling faster, cheaper ways to evaluate impacts of development and gain planning approval. Biodiversity offsetting will fail if it is not primed and maintained with the appropriate resources, and charged with a measure of impartiality by close involvement of ecologists within the public sector. Additionally, any offsetting measures need to be supported by rigorous ecological assessments, backed up with a precautionary approach. Implementing biodiversity offsetting is going to cost money. It is not a panacea for government, nor developers, to overcome the current economic situation. The government should be clear from the outset about where these costs lie and who will pay them so that stakeholders can realistically consider the costs and benefits of the proposals.Friends of the Earth's offsetting report concluded that "biodiversity offsetting is not a solution to the continuing decline in wildlife and ecosystems that we are seeing in the UK. Introducing offsetting would risk reducing nature to a trade-able commodity in order to free up more land for development." There is no convincing evidence that biodiversity offsetting is an effective way to protect and restore biodiversity. The experience from other countries is mixed at best and the UK offset pilots are not yet complete making any early introduction of offsetting in the UK prematureNature is too complex to simply be moved at the whim of a developer. Ancient habitats are impossible to recreate and many others difficult to restore or recreate. Nature’s intrinsic value cannot be accurately measured by a metric and access to the natural world is valued by local communities – both values are lost if nature is treated as a chess piece to be shifted around the country.Biodiversity gain is not achieved if nature is concentrated in one part of the country and areas of high development pressure are allowed to become ‘green deserts’. Yet this is exactly what the Government’s Green paper suggests saying that it would be “beneficial” to accept loss of biodiversity in parts of the country where there is “greatest value for development” in return for net gain elsewhere “where offsets can be secured most cheaply”. Other means of securing restoration should take priority. As a start this requires the strengthening of the commitment to biodiversity gain through the planning system. The Government simply accepts in the Green paper that biodiversity is not being properly protected through planning. This is a reference to the Government’s relatively new National Planning Policy Framework – if it’s not working then the Government should strive harder to make it work. Better spatial planning at the local level – including being clear about where nature gets priority in Local Plans and Strategic Housing Land Availability Assessments – would create more certainty for developers as well as better protection for our natural green spaces. But instead of setting out clear guidelines for local planning authorities on how to map, protect and boost biodiversity the Government is going through a process of “streamlining” its guidance so that nature will continue to be sacrificed to arguments about housing numbers. Sir John Lawton in his important report ‘Making Space for Nature’ was very clear that we need to prioritise protecting and enhancing the wildlife habitat that we’ve got. Allowing damage to sites as long as compensation is provided must be a last resort only done in exceptional circumstances. Creating an “off-the-shelf” market for trading habitats risks making it the norm.Green Party leader Natalie Bennett said: "The concept of biodiversity offsetting betrays a failure to understand the complexity of nature and the inter-related nature of different ecological elements. It suggests that animals, plants and microbes are simply like Lego blocks, to be moved around at will, when in fact they exist in complex inter-relationships of which we frequently have only the dimmest understanding, or none at all."One particular area that deserves more attention is soils (and I will admit a personal interest in this as an agricultural science graduate). We've only just in the past decade or so come to understand that they are incredibly complex ecosystems all of their own. Microflora (bacteria and fungi), microfauna (including nematodes and the protozoa living in the water films around soil pores) and mesofauna (such as mites and springtails), can't possibly be 'transplanted' from one place to another and areas rich in obvious ecological value such as forests are likely to also be high in diversity and complexity at this level."It's one illustration of why the idea that we can move around ecological wealth at will is a nonsense."Barry Gardiner MP, Labour’s shadow minister for the natural environment welcomed the Environmental Audit Committee’s (EAC) criticisms of BO: “The EAC is right to give a cautious welcome to the principle of biodiversity offsetting. They have correctly identified a serious problem with the simplistic approach proposed by this Government. Biodiversity offsetting must be transparent and take full account of the interconnectedness of habitats, species and ecosystems.The Committee has been silent on the need for an independent broker that can command the confidence of developers and the public. The Labour Party believes that this will be an essential element of any successful scheme. The Government must stop dithering about whether to make any scheme mandatory or not as the EAC rightly states that the poor uptake in the Government’s pilots indicates that only a mandatory scheme will drive forward a proper biodiversity offset market.The report sees offsetting only as a way of compensating for environmental loss. We believe that this fails to properly assess the potential that biodiversity offsetting has to create greater access to nature and for overall environmental improvement.”The Wildlife Trusts say on their website that: Biodiversity offsetting is a simple phrase for what is in reality a very complex idea. There are elements that are immediately problematic for any conservationist - some habitats have evolved over millennia and are irreplaceable; the phrase offsetting itself is in danger of greenwashing the facts ('nature damage compensation' would be more accurate); ecosystems are dynamic - many animals range over a network of habitats and this is difficult to plan and design for in human terms.The Guardian's George Monbiot said in a column last year that the potential for rare nightingales to be relocated from Kent to make way for a housing development was indicative of the danger inherent in the proposals. The prospect of offsetting in this case looks to me like the "licence to destroy" that the government warned against. Rather than compensating for "genuinely unavoidable damage" it looks as if it could be used to justify avoidable destruction: trashing a remarkable place for an unremarkable project which could be built elsewhere.This case illustrates the danger inherent in the principle of offsetting. It makes nature as fungible as everything else. No place is valued as a place: it is broken down into a list of habitats and animals and plants, which could, in theory, be shifted somewhere else. It subjects our landscape and wildlife to the same process of commodification that has blighted everything else the corporate economy touches.The notion of a "like for like" replacement is bogus. No two places are the same. No place that has been planned and measured and designed and planted as a wildlife habitat is the same as one that has arisen spontaneously, or that has always been there. Much of the delight of nature is that it is unscripted, spontaneous, unofficial, that it owes little or nothing to human design.Accept the principle of biodiversity offsetting and you accept the idea that place means nothing. That nowhere is to be valued in its own right any more, that everything is exchangeable for everything else, and nothing can be allowed to stand in the way of the graders and degraders. That is not an idea I find easy to swallow.FERN have published a statement signed by more than 60 organisations worldwide, which calls into question the basis for offsetting.FERN (@FERN_NGO)@KarlMathiesen NGO Statement against #biodiversity offsetting is here: http://t.co/amlAQx0Se6November 12, 2013   EmmaCPRE 12 November 2013 1:38pmThe Campaign to Protect Rural England (CPRE) does not support the introduction of biodiversity offsetting in the form proposed in the Green Paper, here are a few of our concerns – and thanks to The Guardian for running this.• The proposals are not based on sufficient evidence, which have been properly tested and evaluated, to set up a reliable biodiversity offsetting system. In particular, as the pilot schemes are not due to complete until April 2014 it appears premature to base Government thinking on the incomplete pilots.• We do recognise that the current planning system is not delivering adequate compensation for habitats and landscapes that are lost to development. In principle, a systematic and transparent approach to assessing the damage caused to the environment by development could become a useful addition to the planning process. • We are extremely concerned that the proposed offsetting scheme would tip the balance further in favour of developers. • CPRE believes that any offsetting metric should take account of land take, and require offsetting to cover an area of land (not merely what a developer judges to be ‘habitat’) at least equal to that developed. This would require significant improvements on emerging practice in England. For example, recent planning decisions have shown that the amount of land being covered by the offset doesn't any way near match the amount of land lost to development. Emma, CPRE.   RSPBplanner 12 November 2013 12:21pmAs a principle, biodiversity offsetting offers potential to deal with the ongoing losses of wildlife the planning system is currently failing to address, but this mustn’t be viewed as a developers’ charter. Today’s EAC report is right to suggest any new system should be mandatory and fit for purpose from the outset, as well as transparent so it commands the respect of all involved, including the public. The full complexity of habitats and species needs must be built in so that in an effort to 'simplify' our natural world we don’t 'dumb down'. The State of Nature report published in May, revealed that 60 per cent of the UK’s wild species are declining. We hope the Government will take the committee’s advice and ensure that biodiversity offsetting plays its part in truly helping to stem these losses.Updated at 5.43pm GMT 1.04pm GMT Defra FAQsDefra ran an online consultation on BO just over two weeks ago for those who prefer their policy delivered in 140 characters.Defra UK (@DefraGovUK)An hour until #AskDefra where you can ask questions on #BiodiversityOffsetting. Please use the #AskDefra hashtag so we can see questions.October 25, 2013Plantlife (@Love_plants)#AskDEFRA: Will the metric include species?October 25, 2013Defra UK (@DefraGovUK)Hi @Love_plants calculations already look at species which might be present & we're thinking about how to do more #AskDefraOctober 25, 2013 12.57pm GMT Key issue: Ancient woodlands and other significant sitesThere seems to be some confusion over the role BO would have in developments that threaten places of outstanding natural value, irreplaceable habitats or SSSI sites.Defra's Green Paper said: Some habitats are impossible to recreate on a meaningful timetable. Ancient woodland and limestone pavement fall into this category. Any development which damages these habitats effectively leads to an irreversible loss. Legislation can constrain when and where compensation is acceptable for impacts. For example, under the Habitats Directive plans or projects adversely affecting a European site are only allowed if there are no feasible alternatives, there are imperative reasons of overriding public interest (IROPI) and the integrity of the Natura 2000 network is maintained. Offsetting cannot cut across this and other similar legal protections.  Similarly some species have strong protections under the Habitats Directive and any proposed offsetting approach that affected such species would need to adhere to these extant legal protections. The paper goes on to say that offsetting could be used to quantify the compensation required in overriding public interest cases but only after all other existing legislation was met.Matina Loizou (@MatinaLoizou)#AskDefra How can you 'offset' irreplaceable #ancientwoodland? #biodiversityoffsetting @DefraGovUKOctober 25, 2013Defra UK (@DefraGovUK)Hi @MatinaLoizou existing planning laws give greater protection to #ancientwoodland & will not be changed. #AskDefraOctober 25, 2013Joan Walley said the EAC was concerned about this element on the legislation in particular. She said that even though it did not cut across existing legislation, the situation serves to highlight flaws in the current planning process. Rather than creating new ways to manage the destruction of ancient woodlands, she said, they should be made inviolable by law.Friends of the Earth commissioned a report into BO which warned: "Important and unique habitats could be lost forever. Biodiversity is often irreplaceable especially ancient woodland, meadows, peat and soils. New sites will not contain the same features as existing habitats and reintroducing or trying to recreate biodiversity is fraught with problems." 12.36pm GMT Joan Walley reactionJoan Walley, the Labour MP who chair the Environmental Audit Committee said today that she felt the process was being rushed. She raised concerns over the fact that the government had not been prepared to wait for the results of pilot programmes before moving forward with their proposals. "We've got these evaluations and then before there's any independent assessment of the we've got a Green Paper. So there could be many unintended consequences and because it's such an important issue this all needs to be thought through."Walley said she was concerned the process was being subverted to streamline development before its environmental mitigations were properly understood. "If it's is going to be done it should be done for its own sake... Not just to give a green light to economic development at any cost."She said the committee had mixed feelings about the potential for BO to be environmentally successful. "There is an ambivalence. I think there's very real fears that offsetting shouldn't be used just to give a green light. The Lawton report in 2010 warned that biodiversity offsetting must not become a license to destroy or damage existing habitat of recognised value... I think we took that very much to heart."Updated at 4.54pm GMT 12.22pm GMT Expert reactionNatural England director of land use Rob Cooke has told me that his assessment falls along similar lines to the EAC. He said that BO could offer advantages to the UK's environment but its implementation would need careful management.Natural England have been involved in the type of habitat recreation that offsetting would require. Cooke said there were many examples of this type of project being successful. Although the costs were not insignificant. Developers would be looking at significant up front costs to buy the land to be rehabilitated. They would then have to pay for its management, which he said could vary widely depending on the habitat type and location. But he said a ballpark figure "in the order thousands of pounds a year" was realistic.Simon Pryor, natural environment director at the National Trust, concurred: “This report shows that government should take the time to get biodiversity offsetting right. Offsetting could be a positive way to help avoid the loss of wildlife that can result from development - but only if it is done properly. If a system is introduced too rapidly, and without adequate testing and evidence, the prospect of a workable and supportable biodiversity offsetting system would be undermined for many years to come."Updated at 2.55pm GMT 11.44am GMT Pilot programsNatural England, Defra and local councils are currently managing six pilot programmes for biodiversity offsetting in:DevonDoncasterEssexGreater NorwichNottinghamshireWarwickshire, Coventry and SolihullThe EAC was critical of the uptake in the programmes, which started in 2011, saying that the requirement for developers to opt in meant few measurable results had emerged.EAC chair Joan Walley said: “The Government’s offsetting pilots have not had a good take up. That suggests that these sorts of schemes need to be mandatory, but the Government should exercise some caution about this because the pilots need to be rigorously and independently assessed first to make sure all the lessons are properly taken on board. The Government will need to be sure that the poor take-up wasn’t a result of weaknesses in the offsetting scheme design.”Rob Cooke, Natural England's director of land use, said he agreed the programs had been: "Slow to get off the ground because of their voluntary nature and because the local authorities are fairly stretched in terms of resources. So the pilots have been contributing some useful information, but I think it's fair to say that they haven't all progressed as fast or as far as people would have hoped."Sarah Jennings, county ecologist for Devon Council, said the pilots being run in Devon had involved a great deal of discussion and debate. She said the metric had proved a useful tool to measure the amount of compensation required during development projects. But the process was proving "very complicated, its all in the detail". The South Devon project, which she had been involved in, had encountered greater horseshoe bats. This had highlighted a lack of focus on the impacts on species in the original Defra proposals, which had mostly chosen to look at habitat replacement.The pilot programmes will end in April 2014.Updated at 3.21pm GMT 11.28am GMT Biodiversity offsetting explainedBiodiversity offsetting is a mechanism that, according to advocates, allows habitat lost at the site of a development to be measured and recreated elsewhere.Owen Paterson has lauded its potential, telling a conference in September: "For too long we have allowed the lazy assumption that the environment and growth are incompatible objectives within the planning system."I believe that, with a bit of innovative thinking, in many cases it is possible to have both. This is why I am particularly interested in biodiversity offsetting. Offsetting gives us a chance to improve the way our planning system works."It gets round the long–running conundrum of how to grow the economy at the same time as improving the environment."The process of biodiversity offsetting (BO) is intended to add to, rather than replace, other parts of the planning approvals process. In brief, this process is based on a 'mitigation hierarchy'. According to Defra, the hierarchy is a means to avert "unnecessary impacts on the environment" from development. In the first instance harm should be avoided, for instance by locating development at a different site. Where this is not possible the impacts should be mitigated, for instance through the detailed design of the development.Lastly any residual impacts should be compensated for, for instance by restoring or recreating habitat elsewhere.Biodiversity offsetting is designed to be applied as a part of the 'last resort' compensation process. The reason the government is so enthusiastic about the concept is it promises to streamline the sometimes arduous planning process by applying a standard market value to biodiversity. Defra's BO impact assessment says: Without protection, habitat in England is being lost, fragmented and degraded as biodiversity suffers from market failure. As an unpriced externality it tends to be neglected in market-based transactions and is therefore over consumed and under produced. The planning system attempts to counter this for the impacts of development on biodiversity, but this is not always effective and can also create delays and uncertainty which impose costs on developers. A regulated biodiversity offsetting market offers a potentially efficient solution to both problems, helping to ensure biodiversity issues are dealt with more transparently and with greater certainty in the current planning system, to encourage growth and improve the environment. Below is Defra example of the metric being applied to a supermarket site.Karl Mathiesen (@KarlMathiesen)How would biodiversity offsetting work? #ecoaudit pic.twitter.com/dUlOkuJuaBNovember 12, 2013Habitat comparable to the 8 units of biodiversity required in the above example would be created at the expense of the developer. This would involve the purchase of land and ongoing maintenance costs. It is currently unclear how long a company would remain responsible for the maintenance of a habitat it has created. The EAC said: "The Green Paper notes that planning permissions generally assume that a development will be permanent, so there will be a need to ensure any compensatory biodiversity gains are also permanent."For more details on how BO would work, Defra's Green Paper is easy to follow, although, as an initial policy proposal, it lacks detail. Updated at 2.53pm GMT 10.49am GMT Environment Audit Committee reportThe EAC report recommended the government place biodiversity offsetting (BO) on hold. It called them an "admission of failure" on the part of existing planning mechanisms. Saying BO "should only arise after alternative development sites or means of mitigating the environmental loss from development have been considered". The report also urged that existing pilot programs, set up in 2011, be allowed to run their course.If the mechanism was to be adopted, the EAC raised concerns about the inclusion of irreplaceable habitats such as ancient woodland and sites of special scientific interest (SSI). Although, a reading of the government's Green Paper suggests that these types of sites will be governed by existing legislation. I will follow up on this point during the day.The committee recommended several key aspects be amended. Namely the simplistic metric, the location of sites to be rehabilitated, risk factors associated with relocating habitats and wildlife, monitoring and the need to make any scheme mandatory. The metric [below], which the Government estimates would take only 20 minutes to apply, is overly simplistic. A proper metric needs to reflect the full complexity of habitats, including particular species and 'ecosystem networks', and recognise the special status of ancient woodlands and sites of special scientific interest. Biodiversity assessments would need to be transparent and independent to command respect from developers, local authorities, environmental groups and local people.Karl Mathiesen (@KarlMathiesen)Defra's biodiversity metric is "overly simplistic" says Select Committee. #ecoaudit pic.twitter.com/JDuUlcgNqKNovember 12, 2013 Offsets have to be near enough to the development site that local people can still enjoy the types of habitat and wildlife being affected. Focusing the system at the lowest local planning authority level possible would allow the local authority to give full weight to both the loss and the gain under its jurisdiction. Any offsetting system must emphasise the continuing primacy of the 'mitigation hierarchy', where offsetting is only considered after alternative development sites or a means of mitigating the environmental loss in situ have been exhausted.There needs to be recognition that unless like-for-like habitat replacement is required, any process will have to make ultimately subjective 'equivalence' judgements about the value of nature. That concern should prompt the Government to develop a system where offsetting 'risk factors' are initially given very high weightings which can only be reduced when experience of offsetting in practice provides confidence that the environment has not been harmed overall.The Government and Natural England must monitor any offsetting scheme to ensure that a balance of habitat types is provided overall, and if necessary the weighting factors applied in offset metrics must be adjusted to ensure that such a balance is delivered.A mandatory, rather than voluntary, offsetting system would encourage a market to develop, which would in turn allow more environmentally and economically viable offset projects to be brought forward. The poor uptake in the pilots suggests that a mandatory system is needed, although the case for that has not yet been made and more analysis of the pilots is needed.Updated at 11.29am GMT 9.57am GMT Welcome to the eco auditBiodiversity offsetting (BO) is a planning mechanism through which developers will be able to compensate for habitats they destroy by creating or improving other landscapes. The concept has come under fire from green groups who have called it a 'license to trash nature'.In September, Secretary of State for the Environment Owen Paterson announced a community consultation on biodiversity offsetting (BO) saying: "Offsetting is an exciting opportunity to look at how we can improve the environment as well as grow the economy."In a report published today, the Commons Environmental Audit Committee (EAC) said the government's initial proposal required significant changes in order to offer proper protections for the environment.The report said: The twenty minute assessment for calculating biodiversity losses at a site, that has been proposed by Ministers, is also overly simplistic.Chair of the committee, Labour MP Joan Walley, said:  "Biodiversity offsetting could improve the way our planning system accounts for the damage developments do to wildlife, if it is done well. But ministers must take great care to get offsetting right or they risk giving developers carte blanche to concrete over important habitats."The EAC urged a cautious approach and the necessity to allow pilot programs (established in 2011) to run their full course. Meanwhile green groups and some commentators are suspicious of the potential for BO to amount to a rubberstamp for destruction.Today I will be investigating the intricacies of this concept and asking you for your help. Please contribute your thoughts in the comments below, tweet me, or email me. If you are quoting figures or studies, please provide a link to the original source. Later I will return with my own verdict.Updated at 10.02am GMT