A slice of “racy” agricultural correspondence from George Washington written a few years before he became the first president of the US and dealing with a “she ass” has gone up for sale.The 1786 letter was written by Washington from his family estate, Mount Vernon, to the Maryland politician and lawyer Richard Sprigg. Sprigg had sent his female donkey, or “she ass”, to Mount Vernon for breeding purposes, and Washington writes to say that “I feel myself obliged by your polite offer of the first fruit of your jenny [female donkey].”“Though in appearance quite unequal to the match, yet, like a true female, she was not to be terrified at the disproportional size of her paramour; and having renewed the conflict twice or thrice it is to be hoped the issue will be favourable,” writes Washington, who would take his oath of office as president three years later, in 1789.Bookseller William Reese has put the letter up for sale on online marketplace Abebooks for $35,000 (£26,000), saying that it reveals “a slightly racy side to his character”. “This missive is recorded by the Washington Papers, though with the date in error by one day,” writes Reese in his description of the letter, which he says is in very good condition. “Since then, the address leaf and Mrs Sprigg’s name have been effaced from the document. A rather racy bit of agricultural correspondence by Washington.”Abebooks’s Richard Davies pointed to “Washington’s cheeky remarks about his donkey’s disproportional size” in the letter, as well as his “tidy” handwriting, and his use of abbreviation - the letter ends: “I am Dr. Sir Yr. most ob. serv.” Eleventh-century Chinese letter – just 124 characters long – sells for $32m Reese said that the content of a letter has an effect on its price. “The subject matter of a letter matters a great deal,” he told Abebooks. “According to the Washington papers project, he wrote more than 30,000 letters in his life, and those on the market have sold from the thousands of dollars up to nearly $1m – the difference being the content.”