This eerie picture of Sellafield by night shows why it is almost impossible to be rational about nuclear energy. As the nuclear reprocessing plant in north-west England announced a partial shutdown while it investigated a high-radiation reading, our atomic fears once again mushroomed.There's something unreal about this photograph: it evokes science-fiction images of alien phenomena infiltrating the natural landscape of Cumbria. Behold a place where dark deeds are done deep inside the atom. We've seen the film before, so many times – from cold-war newsreels to 1970s Doctor Who.Indeed, the iconography of "science as horror" that haunts this photograph is far older than nuclear power itself. This hi-tech nocturne closely resembles Phillipe Jacques de Loutherbourg's 1801 painting Coalbrookdale by Night, which sees one of the great centres of the Industrial Revolution as a hellish workshop whose fires luridly illuminate a ruined countryside.Ever since the birth of industry 200 years ago, humanity's power to operate on nature has provoked as much revulsion as pride. No dark satanic mills of the 19th century, however, provoked the unique dread this picture illuminates, for nuclear energy breeds nightmares that have arrested its development. Every accident slows down the building of power stations, as the pro-nuclear environmentalist James Lovelock has observed.There is a case to be made – as Lovelock and other dissident Greens insist – for nuclear power as an alternative to carbon fuels. Whatever the truth or otherwise of that case, the outrage such opinions provoke arguably has an element of the irrational and this picture explains why. Nuclear power is a myth as much as a reality, a shadow in the modern mind. The first images of nuclear reactions that lodged themselves in the world's imagination were mushroom clouds. The first we heard of "splitting the bomb" was news of a slaughter.This photograph is of nothing more than a spookily lit industrial plant – but it carries a massive weight of terror in which de Loutherbourg's devilish Coalbrookdale merges with Andy Warhol's silkscreen atomic explosion.If defenders of nuclear energy are right, the gothic imagination that feasts on images such as this prevents us from making rational choices.As of writing, Sellafield said the high emissions it detected were after all the result of "natural background radiation".