A while back, the director John Butler decided he wanted to make a mainstream buddy movie with a difference. It was to feature two teenage boys, whose sexuality would never explicitly be revealed, and the backdrop would be a fee-paying rugby-obsessed Irish school with a culture of unthinking homophobia. It would have a dash of Dead Poets Society, a nod to the feelgood John Hughes films of the 1980s, and it would culminate in a classic tale of sporting triumph on the rugby pitch. And Butler wanted to do all this on a shoestring budget and a 25-day shoot.Amazingly, the 44-year-old director managed it. Handsome Devil, which stars young Irish actors Fionn O’Shea and Nicholas Galitzine as the adolescent schoolboys, and Sherlock star Andrew Scott as their inspirational teacher, has just been released to a wave of acclaim. Critics have called it “charming”, “terrific” and swiftly styled it “the Irish Moonlight”.Power Rangers features first gay screen superhero “I will take that,” Butler says when we meet in a hotel in central London. “I loved Moonlight … I wept like an infant for the last hour of that film.”But Moonlight, however brilliant, was still a film “lobbed from the margins into the mainstream”, says Butler. Handsome Devil, by contrast, tries to make a different point: “That LGBT issues are mainstream and they should be funded by the mainstream. We should be seeing $50m LGBT comedies with realistic couples at the middle of it. Because it’s one in 10 of us, you know? We belong in the mainstream.”Scott nods in agreement. The 40-year-old actor, best known for playing Moriarty in the BBC drama series Sherlock, came out as gay in 2013. He is currently appearing as Hamlet in a new sellout production at the Almeida Theatre in London.“My own experience has been that, since being open, I’ve had more opportunity,” Scott says. “That’s not because I’m gay or straight. It’s because, personally, I feel I have a degree of authenticity about who I am.”It’s certainly true that Scott is an actor of great range and talent: one minute starring as a gay rights activist in Pride, the next taking on the part of an MI6 spook in the Bond film Spectre, or playing barrister Anthony Julius in the David Hare-scripted Denial.“I really do think the sexuality of characters is the most boring part to play,” he says. “Your homo- or heterosexuality is neither a virtue nor a flaw. It just isn’t. Who you want to have sex with is not something you cultivate.”Would he like to see an openly gay cultural figure such as James Bond or Doctor Who? “Visibility and diversity is massively important but there’s no point in writing a terrible gay- or female-led drama if it’s not authentic,” he says. “I mean, would I like to see that? Of course I would, but not at the cost of a really interesting idea.”He has little time for the media trying to lump together the experience of “gay” actors: “You don’t compare Sylvester Stallone and someone who is in the Twilight movie because they’re straight,” he says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nicholas Galitzine and Fionn O’Shea in Handsome Devil.The first time Scott and Butler worked together was in Butler’s 2013 debut film, The Stag, which focused on that most arcane heterosexual activity: the stag weekend. Scott played the (straight) best man charged with organising a male-bonding hiking excursion.In a case of life imitating art, Scott and Butler also bonded over having grown up in the same Dublin suburb of Goatstown. “We used to have these one-and-a-half-hour-long conversations about the intricacies of Goatstown,” Scott says. “The Esso garage …”“The Big ‘n Tall menswear shop,” Butler interjects.“The bus timetable,” Scott continues. “He and I had a similar recall for Proustian details.”“Exactly,” Butler says, laughing now. “The Goatstown 62 bus timetable is our madeleine.”When the part of an English teacher came up in Handsome Devil, Scott leapt at the chance to work with the director again. Both he and Butler, who also wrote the script, felt it was important to tackle the issue of homophobic bullying in schools.Scott regularly receives “deeply affecting” letters from teenagers struggling with their identity and he wants to be able to tell them that “coming out is nothing to do with sex. Coming out is to do with saying ‘this is who I am’.” By doing it, he says, “your burden has become your gift”.Butler, who attended a private school in Ireland not unlike the one depicted in Handsome Devil, was lucky enough never to have been the target of bullying, but he developed an ear for inherited homophobic language: the boys in the film unthinkingly make an overly camp “Oooohhhh” sound to denote supposed “gayness” without quite knowing what they’re doing.“It’s from the Carry On films in the 1960s,” says Butler. “You suddenly realise you’re taking on some bullshit language your grandfather would have used.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Handsome Devil trailerHe was keen that the movie had the lowest possible certification “so that an eight-year-old could see it. This issue is so important. I never had personal experience of bullying at school but I’ve always felt the best way to dismiss bullying is to treat it with levity: it’s to find bullying funny in its patheticness.”Although it tackles serious themes, Handsome Devil is shot through with a warm-hearted charm that makes it deeply entertaining to watch, in large part because of the winning performance from O’Shea, the young Irish actor who took on the role of Ned, a sensitive musician who teaches his rugby-playing roommate that it takes strength to be gentle and kind. O’Shea was 19 when they filmed, and Butler says he was constantly amazed by O’Shea’s maturity and the “emotional intelligence” of all the teenage actors.Did Scott feel the same? “No,” he replies deadpan. “I thought they were little pricks.”He’s joking. Scott recently did a week of Hamlet performances for young audiences who were all under 25, and “the atmosphere was amazing. The energy! The quality of the laughter! The enthusiasm! They were the five best performances we’ve done in the whole run.”There is, he says, “a lot of bullshit spoken about young people: that they’re apathetic or whatever and that’s not how it is. They’re incredibly passionate.”Scott is often asked whether young Sherlock fans come to the theatre just to take photos of him on their phones: “You know, I’m asked, are they going to act like savages? Because if they’re fans of Sherlock or something like James Bond, [there is this assumption] they’re not possessed of the qualities necessary to spend hours in the theatre without Snapchatting.“In my experience, if a phone’s ringing, it’s someone in late middle age who doesn’t know how to turn it off and they think ‘who’ll be ringing me anyway?’ and they let it ring out … Young people know how to turn their phone off.”It is an important time to be releasing a film whose essential message is the need to live an authentic life. In America, Donald Trump was elected on campaign rhetoric soaked with casual misogyny and discriminatory comments. Earlier this year, his administration rescinded guidance to school districts on how to provide a safe and inclusive environment for transgender students.Butler nods vociferously when I bring this up: “This film was written at a time when building a wall between America and Mexico seemed insane. We look back at that now as a zenith of liberal acceptance in the world!”“I think the arts need to respond ferociously,” Scott says.”The only way is to make stuff that’s truthful and make sure it’s seen by everybody.”Starting with Handsome Devil? “Yes,” Butler grins. “That would be great.”