We Have Been Watching 8pm, GoldThe last in the series finds the famous “going for an English” sketch from Goodness Gracious Me dissected by, among others, Meera Syal, who helped to create it. Then an impressive haul of celebs, including Nigel Planer, David Baddiel, Ricky Tomlinson, Maxine Peake, Diane Morgan, Russell Tovey and Josie Lawrence, discuss everything from Spaced, The Day Today and Blackadder to Till Death Us Do Part, all in Gogglebox style. Ben ArnoldTrust Me, I’m a Doctor 9pm, BBC2There’s always a slight sense that this cheerful medical magazine is a public information broadcast dressed up as mid-evening entertainment. But Michael Mosley always does his best to keep things lively – as this new series begins, he makes a guinea pig of himself once again while exploring the comparative weight-loss benefits of diet and exercise. Elsewhere, there’s Saleyha Ahsan on probiotics and Chris van Tulleken on the health benefits of red wine. Phil HarrisonNo Offence 9pm, Channel 4The snappy, gutsy cop show is nearing the peak of series two’s main story. With two more episodes to come after tonight, this is the one where the police discover just what horrors they’re dealing with in their investigation of crime boss Nora, given cocky swagger by the terrific Rakie Ayola. Every showdown between Nora and justice tornado Viv (Joanna Scanlan) is a thrill. In comparison, the case-of-the-week side-plot at an abortion clinic feels a little pat. Jack SealeBritish Empire: Heroes and Villains – A Timewatch Guide 9pm, BBC4David Olusoga presents this archival trip in which he examines how the British empire has been treated by TV. “Debunking” proves to be an instructive word here, as the reputation of Cecil Rhodes is reassessed by Kenneth Griffith in 1971. So begins a tradition: presenting the truth about the Anglo-Zulu war, and targeting Victorian “racist nonsense” (as Jeremy Paxman put it in 2012) that perpetuated empire notions of a “master race”. John RobinsonConviction 9pm, Sky LivingLast episode of the legal drama. Hayes and Wallace revisit the case that brought them together: the failed defence of Gerald Harris, found guilty of murdering his wife despite Hayes’s firm belief in his innocence. Elsewhere, some illicit behaviour by another member of the team might spell the end of the Conviction Integrity Unit. Spoiler: the ABC Network has already made its decision regarding a second series, and it seems unlikely Conviction’s case will be reopening soon. Mark Gibbings-JonesWomen Who Kill 10pm, Channel 4The concluding episode in the documentary about so-called “black widow killers” – those who kill calculatedly and cold-bloodedly – focuses on two women who murdered for money. Celeste Beard-Johnson conspired with her lover to murder her millionaire husband, Steven Beard, while Dorice “Dee Dee” Moore befriended and then offed Abraham Shakespeare, a labourer who hit the jackpot in a Florida lottery. Both women maintain their innocence. Jonathan WrightStoryville: The Great Literary Scandal – The JT LeRoy Story 11pm, BBC4A middle-aged woman writes a series of novels in the guise of a troubled young male with Aids, briefly becoming a countercultural figure in the mould of Ginsberg or Burroughs. While it sounds like the plot of a novel itself, this is the true story of JT LeRoy, the cult author who wasn’t. This enthralling film relies heavily on the words of his creator, Laura Albert, offering an unparalleled insight into her own psyche. Hannah J DaviesFilm choiceAll is Lost (JC Chandor, 2013) 9pm, Film4JC Chandor’s relentlessly taut and gripping drama stars Robert Redford as a unnamed veteran sailor, suddenly awoken by the shock of a floating metal container and oceanic flotsam smashing a hole in the side of his boat, which starts to sink. We don’t know who he is or why he’s there; it’s as minimalist as can be. And Redford, though near-silent, is superb as the embattled wanderer struggling to overcome storm and setbacks, one after another, bringing him ever closer to the end. Utterly riveting. Paul HowlettThe Social Network (David Fincher, 2010) 1.30am, Channel 4Fincher’s brilliant account of the birth of Facebook stars Jesse Eisenberg as Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg, whose drunken computer prank after being dumped by a girlfriend quickly morphs into the multibillion-dollar social network. The opening demonstrates that Zuckerberg is a bit of an arse, and also that Aaron Sorkin is a master screenwriter – his witty, incisive, darkly funny script powers this coruscating tale. PHLive sportPremier League Football: West Ham v Man City City return to the Olympic Stadium, where they defeated the hosts 5-0 in the FA Cup last month. 7pm, BT Sport 1Africa Cup of Nations Football The first semi-final. 6.45pm, Eurosport 2ODI Cricket: New Zealand v Australia Coverage of the second match of the three-game series between the neighbours. 1am, Sky Sports 2