Stockley Farm Park, CheshireThis organic dairy and arable farm prides itself on a “hands-on” approach: visitors are encouraged to feed and groom the animals and watch planting and milking parlour demonstrations. Budding farmers can get a taste of agricultural life by signing up for its Young Farmer Academy: two-hour sessions aimed at 7-to-12-year-olds, with the chance to take part in behind-the-scenes activities, while learning about animal husbandry or arable farming (next session 13 April, £15pp). Over the Easter holidays (1-17 April), there’ll be extra activities such as Easter egg hunts, sheep races and bird of prey displays.• Adult £9.20, 2–16s £8.20, under-twos £1.75, family £33, 10% online discount, stockleyfarm.co.ukOdds Farm Park, Buckinghamshire      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Odds Farm Park was named attraction of the year at the 2017 National Farm Attractions Network awards. There’s a packed programme of daily events, from bottle feeding goats to milking cows, plus tractor and trailer rides, a play barn and huge wooden outdoor play area and sandpit. During the Easter holidays, children can meet the farm’s newest arrivals, including piglets and lambs, take part in Easter-themed crafts and follow an Easter bunny trail to earn a chocolate reward.• Adult £14.50, 2-16s £13.50, oddsfarm.co.ukGood Day Out, Powys      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sheep-trekking, sheepdog herding and “pig-nics” are just a few of the unusual and educational experiences offered by Good Day Out, which raises money for local causes by offering interactive farm visits in the Brecon Beacons. One of the most popular options for families is a two-hour “sheep trekking” package at Aberhyddnant organic hill farm. Visitors pick a walking companion from a small flock of Jacob sheep, harness it up and take it for a scenic hike along an old drovers’ track (next walk 16 April, adult £35, child £25). Piggy Walks, where you take a pair of miniature kune kune pigs on a stroll and a picnic are great for younger children (next one 15 April, adult £25, child £10). • gooddayout.co.ukHall Hill Farm, County Durham      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: RexSpring is one of the busiest times of year on sheep farms. On 7 April, Hall Hill Farm will be hosting a Lambing Live Open Day, with extended opening hours (10.30am-9pm) so that visitors can see births as they happen and visit new-born lambs in the maternity barn (baaarn, surely?). The shepherd will be on hand to answer questions, such as how to spot when a ewe is close to lambing. The lambing will continue until early May, and there will be plenty of opportunities to bottle-feed new arrivals and watch births on the farm’s “lamb cam”. There are also donkey rides, puppet shows, crazy golf and sheep races. • Adult £7.95, 2-15s £7.50, family £28.50, hallhillfarm.co.ukMudchute Farm, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: AlamySet in 32 acres on the Isle of Dogs, this inner-city farm brings a little slice of rural life to the East End. As well as the working farm, there’s a petting zoo, duck pond and equestrian centre, with an all-weather floodlit riding arena and show jumps. Outdoor enclosures house rare-breed sheep (including some new-born lambs), llamas, alpacas, pigs and ponies. Regular events include craft activities, exercise boot camps and dog agility lessons. The ever-popular Mudchute Kitchen is a great spot for breakfast or brunch, or take a picnic and admire the surreal view of Canary Wharf towering above the fields of grazing sheep. • Free, mudchute.orgBlackstone Clydesdales, Ayrshire      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Be Clyde yourself … a Clydesdale horse at Blackstone’s farm. Photograph: AlamyThis family farm offers the opportunity to get up close to working Clydesdale horses and other farm animals on specially tailored “experiences”. There’s no set routine: visitors book a time slot and choose from various options with the help of one of the Blackstone family: there’s riding one of the Clydesdales, in the saddle, in a carriage or in harness to work the land, or grooming, mucking out and feeding the resident alpacas, donkeys and Highland cattle. • Experiences from £37pp, family 2-hour package (4-9 people) from £190. Guided farm tours £10pp, blackstoneclydesdales.co.ukBocketts Farm Park, Surrey      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Unlike some “farm attractions” which are really just theme parks with animals, Bocketts is still very much a working sheep farm. Around 500 lambs are expected to arrive over the next month or two and lucky visitors might even get to watch one being born. Over the Easter holidays there will be twice-daily Meet the Shepherd sessions, animal-handling encounters (including chicks and bunnies), a quiz trail, storytelling sessions, goat milking demonstrations, pig racing and pony and tractor rides. Trampolines, giant slides, two indoor play barns and outdoor adventure trails make for an action-packed day out.• Adult £10.50, 3-17s £10.95, bockettsfarm.co.ukThe Big Sheep, Devon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Andrew PetteyNo list of farm attractions is complete without the Big Sheep, which has transformed itself from humble livestock farm to one of Devon’s top family attractions. This is not the place to come for insight into the daily life of a farmer – the vibe is definitely more theme park – but what it lacks in authenticity it more than makes up for in entertainment value, with rides (including Devon’s largest rollercoaster), the Ewetopia indoor playground, laser tag, climbing walls and the ever-popular sheep races. The annual Easter Eggstravaganza Festival (1–17 April) will include a massive egg hunt for 30,000 chocolate eggs, orphan lambs to feed, and baby chicks and bunnies to pet in the animal barn. • Adult £13.95, child £13.95, under 3ft tall £6, under 12 months free, 20% online discount, thebigsheep.co.ukBaylham House, Suffolk      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This small livestock farm specialises in breeds once common on British farms, but now under threat. Children can get really close to the animals, with opportunities to groom goats and pigs, stroke rabbits, feed chickens and hunt for new-laid eggs. The lambing tunnel is expected to be a hive of activity during the Easter holidays and, from 14–17 April, there will be Easter-themed activities, including a treasure hunt and a chance to meet new-born lambs. Children can have a go at building a shelter in the Den Building area, play pooh sticks on the stream, get lost in the maze or play on the rope swing. • Adult £7, 4–16s £3, family £18, baylham-house-farm.co.ukActon Scott, Shropshire      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If Acton Scott looks familiar, it’s because it was the setting of the BBC2 show Victorian Farm. The estate recreates traditional 19th-century farm life, complete with costumed staff and demonstrations from wheelwrights, farriers and blacksmiths, and the chance to see heavy horses working the fields. This is no museum-piece, though – it’s a working farm, and children will relish the chance to handle chicks and bottle feed lambs. There’s a great cafe in the former schoolhouse and farm produce on sale in the shop.• Adult £9, 3-17s £5, family £25, includes free return visit, actonscott.com