Here are four words you don’t often hear nowadays: I have good news. Harry Hill has a new TV series! Harry Hill’s Tea-Time (Sunday, 6pm, Sky1) is very funny! And it gets better: during the course of it, he embarrasses Bake Off traitor Paul Hollywood until he’s squirming like a toddler who’s about to befoul their nappy! Yes, after a fair few false restarts, Hill is back to what he does best: this is essentially a reimagining of TV Burp as a spoof cookery show, which ropes in a sleb to act as sous chef/butt of jokes. Predictably, it’s weird. Upon Hill declaring that tonight’s culinary theme is “Greek night”, Britain’s Got Talent reject Stavros Flatley lollops in to a soundtrack of Zorba The Greek, flailing their legs like sozzled ninjas. A list of bizarro Hellenic recipes are promised for later (“George Michael carved doner kebab with feta cheese”, anyone?) and a cupboard door is opened to reveal Hollywood loitering inside, face smeared with the kind of guilty “who me?” grin you really don’t want to see from a man you’ve just discovered having alone time in your cubby hole.On my radar: Harry Hill’s cultural highlights Or does the bready Judas just look worried? He probably should do, as soon Hill’s digging out archive footage and dissecting it with the kind of forensic flair that bagged TV Burp shedloads of Baftas. A godawful clip of a youthful Hollywood being embraced by Saturday Kitchen’s James Martin and called “Stavros” (because he lived in Cyprus for a bit: what a bloody foreigner) leaves the baker giggling like he’s just seen the size of Channel 4’s latest pay offer. But then Hill points out that this was part of a bizarre IRL food show where the two cooks pretended to live together, pepping up recipes with laddish jokes about letting off wind (“You were pungent last night, weren’t you?”, quips Young Paul). It’s followed by a truly strange montage of Martin shooting inexplicably lingering glances at Hollywood. At one point, his eyes dart southwards as Hollywood bends over in front of a hot oven. By the end of it, Hollywood looks mortified enough to explode and shower the set with chunks of mahogany-hued bread aficionado. Sweet, delicious schadenfreude: we’d give it a 10 for tastiness.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The remainder of Harry Hill’s Tea-Time proves to be a peculiar cocktail of odd games, deliberately useless recipes and ropey celebrity impersonations. At points it makes almost no sense at all, and yet it’s so good to see the big-collared oaf back on TV, goofing his way through fumbled recipes like a benign Gregg Wallace. Supposedly the point to this show is that it’s a take on our obsession with turning food prep into light entertainment, but that’s not really its brilliance. The real joy in Harry Hill’s Tea-Time is the sheer stupidity.Why are we watching a Quasimodo lookalike playing a game where he deep-fat fries a mystery item? Why is there a woman dressed as the Archbishop of Athens, Ieronymos II, having a fist-fight over a plate of Ferrero Rocher? Why does the show end with a troupe of Delia Smith lookalikes singing This Charming Man while extras throw custard pies and yell “Give us back the Elgin Marbles”? No idea. None at all. Like its ITV predecessor, this is another giddy romp through Hill’s singular mind that leaves you chuckling because it’s all so gloriously pointless. It allows you to drift off into an escapist fantasy land, the perfect panacea for panic-inducing news stories. And if it leaves Paul Hollywood looking shamefaced, then that’s all the better.