ITV is considering broadcasting its new weekly politics show hosted by Robert Peston on a Sunday evening rather than the morning, in a sign of its determination to regain ground lost to the BBC in news and current affairs.In an interview with the Guardian, Peston, who started as ITV’s political editor last Monday, said he hoped the show would start this spring before the May local and mayoral elections. Three possible times are under consideration although it is highly unlikely the show will be broadcast at the same time as the BBC rival show presented by Andrew Marr.“There’s a presumption that viewers get annoyed by ITV and BBC in the same territory on at the same time,” said the former BBC business and economics editor.Robert Peston: ‘I want ITV news to humiliate the BBC’ The advantage of a slot at either about 5pm or 10pm is that it would allow politicians to come back from their constituencies outside London later on a Sunday rather than having to get back first thing in time for the Marr show and Sky’s Murnaghan programme, which are screened in the morning.ITV, which declined to comment, is also considering a midday slot, echoing the heyday of Weekend World and Walden in the 1970s and 1980s. The danger of such a slot is that, with Sunday shopping now possible, television viewing figures are low at lunchtime.“If we’re trying to get the story out that ITV is reclaiming its glorious current affairs heritage [then] there are some arguments for putting it on at midday ... but people’s habits are different,” Peston said. “They didn’t have Sunday shopping before; there was almost bugger all to do.”Peston was critical of much of the media, including the Daily Mail,News UK and the BBC for failing to reflect the concerns of people worried about the future. “It’s no secret that for the establishment in general [thought that] immigration was good for the economy. We did on the BBC and I would have been part of that consensus for some years I guess.”Robert Peston: ‘People said I looked tense, but it had nothing to do with the financial crisis’ He added that disillusionment with the political establishment was largely driven by the sense that the media did not reflect the views of the public. “It is not just trade union members and students who fear whether the Murdochs or the Mails or the rest don’t reflect their views; you meet mothers from middle class backgrounds who you wouldn’t necessarily think of as being hard left who say they have more in common with the Corbyn agenda than you would expect,” he said. “That’s not to say that Corbyn is going to command the kind of support to allow him to win an election ... People who voted for Corbyn feel they have no voice whatsoever outside maybe the Guardian, maybe the Mirror and the Indy.“It is in the interest of a healthy society and for Britain’s place in the world for the BBC to continue to be a powerful force for success.”Peston declined to comment on the cost of his new show saying: “It’s a proper budget ... this is not going to be cheap and cheerful.”ITV’s News at Ten is being revamped from Monday with more dramatic music incorporating Big Ben’s chimes and graphics that feature the cities of Edinburgh, Belfast and Cardiff as well as London.As political editor, Peston will do most of his live reports inside the studio with anchor Tom Bradby. Outside broadcasts that put political editors outside Downing Street every night were “bonkers”, he said. Peston said a decision on which production company would run his weekly show was likely to be made this week. 