Northern Irish author Paul McVeigh has won the Polari first book prize for his novel The Good Son, a coming-of-age tale that follows a young boy growing up during the Troubles in 1980s Belfast.The Good Son by Paul McVeigh review – Belfast boy in the 80s McVeigh, whose debut was also shortlisted for the 2015 Guardian Not the Booker prize, was presented with the award at the Southbank Centre as part of the London Literature Festival. The LGBT writing prize, which began in 2011, is awarded annually to writers whose first books explore gay, bisexual and transgender experiences through poetry, prose, fiction or nonfiction.Born in Belfast, McVeigh began his career as a playwright and director and has preciously written short stories. Chair of the judges, author Paul Burston said McVeigh’s debut novel was unanimously chosen by the judges, as they were all “completely charmed” by McVeigh’s young narrator Mickey Donnelly.“It takes skill to write in the voice of a boy that age and for it to not sound fraudulent. The voice rang true from the very first page. He’s absolutely charming, completely believable and drew us into the world that most of us weren’t familiar with,” McVeigh said. “I think a lot of qualities Mickey demonstrates in the book are qualities lots of young gay men will recognise if they grew up in difficult circumstances.”Juliet Jacques: ‘I spent years pretending to be male’ In a first for the Polari prize, journalist and critic Juliet Jacques was named runner up for her memoir Trans. Deemed a “crisp, thoughtful volume” in the Guardian’s review, Trans documents Jacques’s transition and experience of life as a woman in the workplace and public eye. The judges decided a runner up prize was needed for the first time because, Burston said, Jacques “is an exceptionally good writer and she writes about her experiences in a very accessible way.”“There is a huge amount of interest and awareness about trans identities that wasn’t there a few years ago... any other year [Trans] may have been our winner, but everyone loved Paul’s book so much. Still, there was a feeling that Trans was so extraordinary that it should be recognised in some way and we all agreed we should give it special mention,” he said.McVeigh’s and Jacques’s books were shortlisted alongside Sugar and Snails by Anne Goodwin, a novel about an academic psychologist who experienced a troubled childhood; Different for Girls by Jacquie Lawrence, which follows three lesbian couples in London; Blood Relatives by Stevan Alcock, about a gay teen in Leeds whose interactions with sex workers are shadowed by the Yorkshire Ripper murders; and the poetry collection Physical by Andrew McMillan, which won the Guardian first book award in 2015.Burston, who was joined by literary critic Suzi Feay, comedian VG Lee, writer Alex Hopkins and former head of literature and spoken word at the Southbank Centre, Rachel Holmes on the judging panel, said there were fewer entries this year than previous years, as well as fewer submissions by female writers.“There are a number of really strong lesbian books coming out soon that I know will be eligible for next year’s prize, so I am not worried in the long term. Hopefully it was just an issue of books falling outside the cut off date and we’ll see many more next year,” Burston said.