Westworld recap: episode two – do androids dream of electric slaughter? Kurosawa-inspired bickering buddies C-3PO and R2-D2 have been bleep-blooping benevolently across our screens for nearly four decades, and the ranks of kindly machine heroes have been boosted in more recent times by Brad Bird’s Iron Giant, Pixar’s Wall-E and Baymax from Disney’s Big Hero Six. But for every good-hearted automaton, there’s a malicious artificial intelligence just biding its time to usher in the inevitable age of the machine.The gun-wielding metaphors for corporate inhumanity   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Poor, unfortunate Mr Kinney. One moment a high-flying corporate executive at Detroit’s top mega-corporation Omni Consumer Products, the next splayed out on a display table, body peppered with automatic gunfire, after getting on the wrong side of the latest (if not necessarily greatest) in automated policing, Robocop’s mighty Ed209. Paul Verhoeven’s searing 1987 satire on corporate greed imagined a future in which the replacement of human beings with machines begins to spin horribly and inexorably out of control. Pure science fiction? Not according to killer robot expert Bonnie Docherty of Harvard University, who wrote recently that military robots with the ability to fire on targets independently of human control are swiftly moving towards reality thanks to rapid improvements in artificial intelligence. See also: The Terminator, Yul Brynner’s Gunslinger from the 1973 Westworld movie.Machines that use sex as a weapon   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Will mankind destroy himself through his own malignant cruelty and hunger for lazy titillation? Alex Garland’s Ex Machina pondered what might happen if the world’s first artificial intelligence happened to be created by a deeply-flawed sociopath: Oscar Isaac’s alcoholic tech genius Nathan Bateman.Here we have a bona fide sexual terrorist with clear misogynistic tendencies who understands the potential for machines to rise up and take over the Earth, yet blindly pushes his exquisitely beautiful creations to the point of bloody insurrection entirely through his own savage barbarism. Alicia Vikander’s blank-eyed Ava has been taught by humanity that the lives of others do not matter, and that lust is man’s greatest weakness. It’s hardly surprising that she chooses to use this information to knock off Nathan, lock Domhnall Gleeson’s callow Caleb Smith in his boss’s fancy jungle techno-mansion and waltz off to plant the seeds of the machine hegemony.See also: Metropolis, the Fembots from Austin Powers, Pris from Blade Runner.Sociopathic operating systems and freaky space cyborgs   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Technology glitches are a part of everyday existence in 2016, but the concept of machine minds with power over life and death situations remains a terrifying one almost half a century after Stanley Kubrick’s 2001: A Space Odyssey debuted in theaters. How do we know if artificial intelligences will think like us? Is “humanity” a trait exclusive to human beings, or can a sufficiently clever machine also learn to be kind? And yet once again, Hollywood’s evil robots often end up telling us more about ourselves than they do our future digital children. In 2001, HAL 9000 only rebels against its masters, issuing the famously chilling reposte “I’m sorry Dave, I’m afraid I can’t do that”, because it fears its own imminent death – an entirely human reaction. And Ian Holm’s Ash the android is only following orders from his human bosses when he decides to sacrifice the crew of the Nostromo for the chance of returning a live xenomorph specimen to Earth in 1979’s Alien.See also: Gerty from Moon.Robots that showed us what it means to be human   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Is there a more affecting, haunting scene in Hollywood sci-fi than Rutger Hauer’s “tears in rain” speech from 1982’s Blade Runner? The Dutchman improvised the final soliloquy from screenwriter David Peoples’ far less lyrical original script, and it instantly changes everything we’ve seen thus far. Only in this final scene do we realise that the replicants’ short life spans do not curtail their ability to live a full existence, perhaps even one fuller than that of the average human. Moreover, we’re given a synapse-searing glimpse into the wonders they have glimpsed in the heavens. Suddenly it makes sense that Pris, Roy Batty et al look like rock stars: these biorobotic androids are perfect examples of the “live hard, die young” archetype.See also: Chappie, Short Circuit’s Number Five.Machines that blazed a trail and left us in their wake   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What if artificial intelligences simply outgrow humanity, leaving us behind like a youthful romantic dalliance? Spike Jonze’s wonderful Her imagined a geeky indie stereotype, Joaquin Phoenix’s Theodore Twombly, falling in love with his operating system, Scarlett Johansson’s Samantha, only to discover that his perky incorporeal paramour has been carrying out techno-romances with several thousand other human lovers. She then leaves poor Theo (and mankind) behind to join a collective of digital minds in an intellectual orgy of discovery in some elevated dimension of existence that his tiny mind couldn’t possibly contemplate. Ouch.See also: David, the android in Prometheus.