8. Zero Carbon House, Balsall Heath, BirminghamThis award-winning eco-extension has completely transformed the inner-city home of architect John Christophers. In building the first retrofit house in the UK to achieve the highest level in the government's code for sustainable homes, Christophers set out to prove that "green doesn't have to be dull. You don't have to have either green or architecture. You can have both. You must have both if you're to inspire people."From the street, the house is unmissable. Rising from a row of traditional two-storey red-brick terraces built in the 1840s, it reaches upwards for maximum solar gain. The roof is pitched at a 30-degree angle and laden with 35 sq metres of solar panels. Angular wood-lined dormer windows jut out from the front facade, while an inverted L-shape fashioned from reclaimed brick frames the edge of the modern extension.  Zero Carbon House has an airtight membrane to keep draughts out and warmth in. The floors are made from rammed and polished red clay, dug from the foundations of the property. Photograph: Martine Hamilton KnightAn airtight membrane is buried in the walls and floor to keep draughts out and warmth in. The mature garden at the rear of the house provides shade in the summer and allows sunlight through in winter. The washing machine and toilets use rainwater gathered in a tank lurking in the cellar, while skylights minimise the need for electrical lights. Where lights are needed, Christophers has increased the colour temperature of the bulbs, creating the perception of warmth.Chris Cousins, homes and communities manager for Breeam, the world-leading design and assessment centre for sustainable homes, has said that the building is "particularly notable for its use of materials which have low embodied energy characteristics, including recycled newspaper insulation. In all, 14 reclaimed materials are used in the project, including 200-year old Canadian honeydew maple boarding for stairs and window seats."  The bathroom. Photograph: Martine Hamilton KnightThe floors are made from rammed and polished red clay, dug from the foundations of the property. The kitchen counters are made from recycled glass, while the dining tabletop is a repurposed building site sign. The stair rail is made of hemp, deliberately chosen by Christophers for its eco-credentials.The Christophers household doubled their living space for around £350,000 and threw a big party to celebrate the day they were disconnected from the mains. "We see [the house] as a contribution to the groundswell towards green lifestyles and the enjoyment of a sustainable way of life," says Christophers. "It is designed to protect the environment and enable its occupants to enjoy the environment."The Zero Carbon House is open to the public on 14 September between 11am-4pm.:1. Marsh House in Nottingham2. 100 Princedale Road in London3. Underhill House in Gloucestershire4. Hemp Cottage in County Down5. The Pavilion in London6. Plummerswood on the Scottish Borders7. Lammas in in North Pembrokeshire9. Lilac co-housing project in Leeds10. Slip House in LondonWe're asking you to vote for your favourite eco home. One voter chosen at random will receive £150 worth of gift vouchers for Nigel's Eco Store. Cast your vote here. Voting closes at 23.59 on Thursday 24 April 2014.With thanks to: the Green Building Council, Hattie Hartman, sustainability editor at the Architect's Journal, HAB housing, The Green Press, Green Sky Thinking, Superhomes, the Centre for Alternative Technology, BREEAM, and The Built Environment Centre for Northern Ireland.Interested in finding out more about how you can live better? Take a look at this month's Live Better Challenge here.The Live Better Challenge is funded by Unilever; its focus is sustainable living. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.