1 Tegan And SaraOver the course of their journey from earnest folkers to sparkly synth stars, twins Tegan and Sara have built a devoted fanbase with a political edge. After last year’s Orlando nightclub terror attack, targeted at the LGBT community, their song Hang On To The Night was adopted by fans as a show of solidarity. And, as the Trump era dawns, their gigs offer a glimpse of tolerance and togetherness. London, Monday 13 February; Manchester, Tuesday 14 February; Bristol, Wednesday 15 February; Glasgow, Friday 17 February; touring to Sunday 19 February2 SløtfaceIf Norwegian feminist pop-punk is not your most-played genre, maybe Sløtface can change that. The band incorporate air-punching choruses, funky basslines and distinctive vocals. Better still, they encourage female fans to stagedive rather than let the pit become a boring bloke-off. Manchester, Monday 13 February; Leeds, Tuesday 14 February; Glasgow, Wednesday 15 February; London, Friday 17 February; touring to Saturday 18 February3 The Pop GroupBack in the late 70s, the Pop Group’s mission was to twist music into new shapes via avant-garde art and politics. Thankfully, they remain committed to the cause in 2017, even if the world has yet to catch up. The Portland Arms, Cambridge, Wednesday 15 February; Komedia, Brighton, Thursday 16 February4 American FootballAs band names go, American Football is right up there with Rugby League and Triple Jump, two bands that don’t exist because those names are so rubbish. But despite the terrible moniker, their 1999 debut album – also called American Football – is regarded as hugely influential in the fields of emo and math-rock. Almost two decades on, they’re back with a second. And, yes, that’s called American Football, too. O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire, W12, Saturday 11 February5 Girl BandThe Irish four-piece – none of whom are girls – are not anybody’s idea of an easy listen. Their debut album, 2015’s Holding Hands With Jamie, assaulted the senses with searing feedback and tumbling drums, while their live shows are not renowned for showing mercy.Vicar Street, Dublin, Friday 17 February