Inside Out Homes8pm, Channel 4For this glossy new property series, architect Zac Monro extols the virtues of blurring the boundaries between house and garden, and of open-plan living. He begins with a makeover of an 18th-century barn that’s atmospheric but gloomy. Time to cover a courtyard with a bespoke glass roof overseen by engineer Monty Ravenscroft, and build a garden office. Cameras also follow a project to remodel a Manchester semi so that it offers two separate living areas. Jonathan WrightThe Investigator: A British Crime Story9pm, ITVFormer detective Mark Williams-Thomas, his profile buoyed by his role in exposing Jimmy Savile, gets his own series as true-crime fever hits ITV. Carol Packman went missing in 1985: her husband is behind bars for murder but, with no body or confession, their daughter still has questions. Williams-Thomas reopens what proves to be a juicy case (natch), in a show that is unafraid to dramatise every detail. At times there is a whiff of Brass Eye. Jack SealeThe Banker’s Guide to Art9pm, BBC4Food banks might be thriving but so is the London art market, where prices have never been higher. Hooray! Principal among its exponents are the wealthy gallerists and their even wealthier clients who are flush from their dealings in the banking sector. Hooray again! This documentary explores the trials and the tribulations of the ballooning art market from the past century up to where it finds itself today. Ben ArnoldRoss Kemp: The Fight Against ISIS9pm, Sky1From fighting the Taliban to tracking down Somali pirates, the ex-EastEnder has put himself in many a hostile situation in the name of good telly. However, this is arguably his most dangerous assignment to date, as he goes in search of the self-proclaimed Islamic State in Syria. As Kemp dodges snipers, talks geopolitics and interviews a former Isis rebel, it is clear that there is a substantial amount of grit behind his hard man image. Hannah J DaviesCelebrity MasterChef8pm, BBC1Another supermarket sweep of celebrities enter the MasterChef kitchen to tackle a mystery box based full of delights such as duck, bacon, Morteau sausage, cheese and pear. Strictly Come Dancing’s Gleb Savchenko, boxer Audley Harrison, Bargain Hunt’s David Harper, presenter Cherry Healey and little Jimmy Osmond are up for the challenge. Can they impress Eggy and Shouty with a two-course feast and serve lunch in a fancy London restaurant? If not, they’re going home. Hannah VerdierNew Blood9pm, BBC1The enjoyable series continues, as Rash (detective) and Stefan (Fraud Office) home in on a well-protected property scammer and his first line of defence, tremendously villainous lawyer John Malik. It’s an entertaining romp, with Mark Addy phoning in some lugubrious old-school copper tropes from 1995, but the best bits concern being a young professional in London. No one actually says “sky-high rents” or “priced out of the market”, but the subtext is fairly obvious. John RobinsonLove Child9pm, More4What The Magdalene Sisters did for Ireland, this new drama aims to do for Australia; specifically the Kings Cross district of Sydney, 1969. The sexual revolution might be in full pelt, but for the unmarried mothers of Stanton House it’s virtual incarceration and a surname change to avoid bringing shame on their family. A worthwhile depiction of a notorious chapter of recent history, albeit as soapy as the suds with which the women scrub their laundry. Ali CatterallFilm      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   When the zombies invade … Shaun of the Dead. Photograph: Allstar Picture LibraryShaun of the Dead, (Edgar Wright, 2004), 9pm, ITV2 When the zombies invade, it takes north London slacker Shaun (Simon Pegg) a while to notice, so wrapped up is he in his own little world of the pub, on-off romance with Kate Ashfield’s Liz, and, er, the pub. But soon he’s involved in an inspired blend of deadpan humour and horror, ending in a John Carpenter-like siege (in the pub). Penelope Wilton and Bill Nighy, as Shaun’s parents, add some feeling. Paul HowlettSportGolf: The Open 6.30am, Sky Sports 1 Sky dedicates an entire channel to the major, held at Royal Troon.Cricket: England v Pakistan, 10am, Sky Sports 2 The first Test starts at Lord’s. After their drubbing of Sri Lanka, can England outfox Misbah-ul-Haq’s impressive Pakistan side?Cycling: Tour De France 1.15pm, Eurosport; 2pm, ITV4 Not only is it Bastille Day but the stage ends on Mont Ventoux.