Don Warrington is remembering crying in London’s Old Vic when he was a drama student. “I hadn’t seen much Shakespeare. I didn’t know anything about anything really.” On stage was Eric Porter as King Lear. “I sat there and I thought, ‘That miserable old git,’ but he was breaking my heart.”Nearly half a century later, Warrington is to play the heartbreaking old git in a production directed by Michael Buffong, artistic director of Talawa, Britain’s leading black theatre company. As we chat over samosas and deep-fried okra in an Indian restaurant, Warrington looks serene and sartorially elegant. But nearly everything he says speaks of his trepidation about taking on the role.  I can feel my blood pressure rising. At the time it seemed crazy to say no. Now I wonder if I'm just crazy “The nicest thing about any job is being offered it,” he says. “Then the reality begins to dawn. Suddenly we have dates! I can feel my blood pressure rising.” He was offered the part after his critically hailed performance in Arthur Miller’s All My Sons at Manchester’s Royal Exchange two years ago. “At the time it seemed crazy to say no. Now I wonder if I’m just crazy.”He and Buffong recently went to see Simon Russell Beale play Lear at the National. “I thought ‘Is this for me?’ Those are big shoes...” He won’t be drawn on whether playing Lear is a bigger challenge than Strictly Come Dancing in 2008 (he went out in week five after losing a dance-off with Heather Small) but both clearly put him out of his comfort zone.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Don Warrington Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianWarrington is only 63 and Lear, he points out, is supposed to be 80. Did he wonder what they were thinking when they cast him? “I always feel, ‘What were they thinking?’ In this case, though, I don’t think it’s a matter of age, because lots of young actors have played him. Paul Scofield was in his 40s. The energy it requires is not necessarily an old man’s energy. I’m not an old man.” Warrington has previous played disempowered, ageing men. He made his well-received directorial debut at the West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds with Mustapha Matura’s Rum and Coca Cola, a comedy about the three times winner of Trinidad’s coveted Calypso King crown reduced to busking on beaches. And two years ago, he was Joe Keller in Arthur Miller’s All My Sons, an industrialist whose firm was accused of knowingly supplying faulty aircraft parts to the military during the second world war.Let’s not forget either Warrington’s turn on BBC2’s Grumpy Old Men. You’ve long been in training to play Lear, I tell him. “You see none of this has occurred to me! He [Keller] was king of his castle or he wanted to be. But he had committed a sin. You could say that Lear commits a sin in that he does a very stupid thing – giving his kingdom away as a test to his children. “The big question is why does he do it? And I don’t know the answer to that yet. Maybe he’s got Alzheimer’s – which makes him speak to us now because it’s what most of us dread. And then why does he insist his daughters say they love him as a condition for getting their share of his kingdom? He’s putting himself in a position where they might say, ‘We don’t love you, you’re a fucking old tyrant’.”Does any of it resonate as a father of two sons? “Am I an old tyrant? Well, you’d have to ask my family about that. I’m sure they’ll have a whole variety of opinions. No, I don’t think so. He’s not me but he can be some of me. I can be angry, I can want to kill people.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Don Warrington in All My Sons at the Royal Exchange, Manchester, in 2013. Photograph: Jonathan KeenanDon Warrington was born in Trinidad, and might still be there but for the fact that his father, Basil Kydd, a local politician, died suddenly aged 48 in 1958 when Don was six. His mother, Shirley, decided to make a new life in England. It took three weeks to cross the Atlantic. “England was a real disappointment if I’m honest. It was painted in the colonies as this beautiful, golden, bright place and it was absolutely the opposite.”In Newcastle, he and his brother were the only black kids in school: “I got called rude names but I’d stand up for myself. I became a Geordie and got nicknamed the Young Pele because I was good at football. The teachers were worse. One teacher thought he should stop me being left handed and asked if I’d learned to write up a tree.”Being uprooted from his birthplace has given him a lifelong sense of loss. “My mother’s generation had protection their children didn’t have because they were adults when they left. We didn’t have a map, we had to make a new one, a new map of how to exist.” So that’s what he did. “I saw On the Waterfront and wanted to be Marlon Brando. I thought I looked like him and I wanted to be just like that.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rising Damp: Frances de la Tour, Leonard Rossiter and Don Warrington in the much-loved sitcom, 1978. Photograph: ITV / Rex FeaturesAged 17, he got his first job at Flora Robson Playhouse as an assistant stage manager, then moved to London to train at the Drama Centre. Soon after graduation he landed the role of town planning student Philip Smith in Eric Chappell’s play The Banana Box. By this stage, he had discovered there was another actor called Don Williams (he used his mother’s maiden name) – and so named himself after Newcastle’s Warrington Road, where he was raised. In The Banana Box, he starred opposite seedy landlord Rupert Rigsby played by Leonard Rossiter. When Chappell adapted his play as the TV sitcom Rising Damp in 1974, the two men reprised their roles, and Warrington became one of the most prominent black actors on British TV. At the time, Eric Chappell’s sitcom was a departure. In the 1970s there were scarcely any black performers on television. This was the era in which Lenny Henry performed with the Black and White Minstrels and Rudolf T Walker was called “sambo” by Jack Smethurst in Love Thy Neighbour. Warrington’s role was a breakthrough because Smith was enviable rather than ridiculous. Indeed, Smith was everything the landlord wanted to be – suave, well spoken and, most importantly, desirable to fellow tenant Miss Jones. “I knew the world of Rising Damp because I grew up surrounded by white people and was used to prejudice,” Warrington says now. “But I never expected it to catch fire like that.” If Warrington hasn’t quite emerged from the long shadow cast by the sitcom, it’s not for want of trying. His TV credits include, C.A.T.S Eyes, Morse, New Street Law, Trial and Retribution, Manchild, Holby City, Casualty and Doctor Who. On stage he has worked a great deal with Talawa, and has also starred in two fine National Theatre productions of plays by Kwame Kwei-Armah, Elmina’s Kitchen and Statement of Regret. He has been one face of Kenco coffee in TV ads, but let’s not hold that against him. In 2008, he was awarded an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours for his services to drama. I didn't go back to Trinidad for a long time. When I did, I remembered tastes, smells … my senses carried that memory Are you glad your mother brought you to England? “That’s a tricky one. I can’t honestly say that I feel that. Because that journey she made with her children has had the most profound effect. I wonder what I left behind.” Do you go back to Trinidad to find out? “I didn’t for a long time, I didn’t want to because I was scared about what it would do. When I did, I remembered things – tastes, smells. So at a very basic level, the body had carried that sense memory.” He has a sister who remained in Trinidad. “When I see her I recognise something in her I would like to be. I feel a kind of loss, which is her absolute sense of knowing the ground on which she stands.” You don’t feel that in England? “I don’t. Until we can all believe that England is ours, until we can feel part of the fabric, we will feel this slight distance between us and where we live. There will always be another place that is home.”Don Warrington plays King Lear from 1 April at the Royal Exchange, Manchester, and from 19 May at Birmingham Repertory Theatre