On their arduous flights North to their breeding grounds, birds migrating up the US East Coast will have one less peril to worry about - bright lights from state-owned and -managed buildings in New York. New York governor Andrew Cuomo on Monday said that state buildings will turn off non-essential outdoor lighting from 11pm until dawn during peak migration in the spring and fall. The state is along the Atlantic Flyway, one of four major routes for birds coming North in the spring from their warmer winter hideouts. To get here, many migrating species - including colorful warblers and other song birds - fly at night and navigate by the stars, using constellations to guide them. But outdoor nighttime lights, especially in bad weather, can disorient the birds and cause them to crash into windows, walls, floodlights or the ground. The phenomenon, called “fatal light attraction,” has killed an estimated 500m-1bn birds annually in the US, the governor’s office said, citing US Department of Agriculture data. Migrating birds even fly right through the towers and canyons of New York City. Earlier this month, a Chuck-will’s-widow – a brown, nocturnal insect-eater with a lizard-like head so flat and large it can swallow small birds whole – perched atop a branch in New York City’s Bryant Park on 42nd Street. Now bright lights will be turned off by New York state during the spring rush north from 15 April until 31 May and again during the fall migration south to warmer climes from 15 August until 15 November. By joining with the National Audubon Society’s Lights Out program, the state buildings follow other well-known structures that have also agreed to limit lighting, including Rockefeller Center, the Chrysler Building and the Time Warner Center. “This is a simple step to help protect these migrating birds that make their home in New York’s forests, lakes and rivers,” Cuomo said in a statement. Lights Out efforts are already protecting birds in the east coast cities including Baltimore and Washington, and in other US metropolitan areas including Chicago, Minneapolis and San Francisco, according to Audubon.