English National Opera’s chorus, which had been threatening to strike in a pay dispute with managers, has reached a deal without resorting to industrial action.The singers’ union, Equity, said on Friday it had negotiated a guaranteed annual pay package of £35,000 instead of a reduction from £40,900 to £30,685 as initially proposed.ENO is having to make substantial cuts and reduce the number of productions after Arts Council England cut its annual grant by 29% – £5m a year.One part of that was a proposal to reduce the size of the chorus from 44 to 40 and only pay singers during the opera seasons, nine months a year. Equity said that effectively meant a pay cut of at least 25% and could force singers to look for work elsewhere.The chorus had initially planned to strike during the first act of Friday’s performance of Philip Glass’s Akhnaten but that was called off earlier this week as negotiations appeared to be going well.The union said ENO management would work with the chorus and Equity “to maximise opportunities for additional work during the summer” when no opera was being produced at ENO’s home in London, the Coliseum.The Equity general secretary, Christine Payne, said: “I am relieved that this dispute has been settled without the chorus being forced into industrial action. In the harsh financial realities ENO finds itself, as a result of cuts from Arts Council England, the chorus have had no choice but to agree to reductions in their guaranteed pay. We hope that this will mean that ENO management stabilises the company and returns it to all-year-round opera production in the near future. “I pay tribute to the dignity with which chorus members have conducted themselves through this very difficult time. They are an astonishing group of people.”Cressida Pollock, the chief executive of ENO, said she was delighted a deal had been reached. She said: “We recognise the fundamental importance of the ENO chorus in delivering world-class opera. We listened to the concerns of the chorus and have reached a fair compromise that preserves the permanent ensemble, focusing on our London Coliseum season, whilst ensuring that we have the building blocks in place to increase our outside work.“This settlement will contribute to the wider changes in our business model, to ensure that ENO becomes a more financially resilient organisation, able to move forward on a reduced public subsidy.”The chorus had received backing from some of the biggest names in opera, including the Royal Opera House music director, Antonio Pappano, and singers Susan Bullock, Sarah Connolly and Stuart Skelton. The ENO’s own music director, Mark Wigglesworth, also warned that cutting the core of the company “would damage it irreparably”.There has also been sympathy for ENO’s predicament in that it had no choice but to make cuts. ENO had gone as far as to warn that the company faced bankruptcy if changes to chorus contracts were not implemented.