The federal government appears to be softening its position on the renewable energy target (RET) after the Labor leader Bill Shorten said the party would consider reducing the target to 33,000 gigawatt hours.“This game’s gone on too long, the government’s killing the renewable energy industry,” he told ABC radio on Monday. “We’ll have a look at it if they say 33,000, if they’re serious, and whether industry could live with it, and we’ll take it to our caucus.”That figure is a 500GWh drop on a compromise deal proposed by Labor last month, which was in line with a benchmark set by the renewable energy sector. The 33,500GWh figure was immediately ruled out by industry minister Ian Macfarlane, who continued to press for the government’s lower target.“We can get a deal the day they [Labor] agree to 32,000 gigawatt hours,” Macfarlane said.The minister now appears to have softened his position, with a spokeswoman refusing to rule out increasing the Coalition’s offer.Tesla's new low-cost battery: 'the missing piece' in sustainable energy? “The government’s door has always been open to talk to the opposition, but the government’s policy basis for the changes to the RET is clear and hasn’t changed.“The government will continue to work with all parties to achieve a sensible outcome that protects jobs, ensures ongoing investment in the renewable energy sector and avoids unnecessary impacts on energy prices for business and families,” the spokeswoman said.Tony Abbott reiterated the government’s policy imperatives during a press conference on Monday. “It’s for ministers Macfarlane and [environment minister Greg] Hunt to finalise any arrangements that might, as I said, keep power prices down and protect jobs because that’s what this has got to be all about,” the prime minister said.The Clean Energy Council did not rule out supporting the 33,000 figure.“It is good to see renewed interest in resolving the crisis in the renewable energy sector and achieving a bipartisan deal on the RET,” the chief executive Kane Thornton said. “We would welcome a formal shift in the government’s position, and would be happy to consider any proposal on its merits.”Australia could source 100% of power from renewables by 2050, report finds Two Liberal backbenchers, Sarah Henderson and Dan Tehan, last week called on the government to settle on a compromise figure of 33,000GWh to end the political deadlock over the target.Eight business groups representing a large percentage of industrial bodies also support the 33,000GWh compromise, arguing that failure to strike a deal is undermining investment in the renewables sector.“This is costing jobs, it is costing the economy of Australia,” the chief executive of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Kate Carnell, said. “We are saying to the government: look, enough is enough here. We need an agreement if we are going to see investment progress. The Labor party has come to the table. It’s now essential that the government does the same.”