The recorder does not enjoy a good reputation. In the popular imagination, it’s somewhere above the kazoo but below the harmonica– an instrument that brings back schoolroom memories of painful, atonal versions of Frère Jacques, with spit dripping on to floors. And that’s why Laura Cannell lies to her hairdresser about what she does.“I just say I play the violin,” says the professional recorder player and composer. “It’s horrible if your memory is of a plastic instrument that tastes of disinfectant and sounds awful. Kids’ fingers don’t cover the holes, so it’s bound to sound terrible.”Yet Cannell is revolutionising the recorder, pushing raw, wind-whipped compositions through it, and sometimes playing two at once in stark medieval harmonies. She attacks the violin with similar energy, threading the instrument through the bow so all four strings can be played at once in a torrid polyphony.Like the rest of us, the 38-year-old started off in school recorder lessons – but she became “obsessed” and started learning from an early-music expert near her home in Norwich. “I really loved the music,” she says. “Vivaldi wrote loads of recorder concertos. It was the virtuoso instrument before the flute.” I don’t want to go ‘The End!’ with a perfect cadence. I want to question, question, question, then leave you hanging Despite receiving no guidance from a “crap” school, she found her way to the London College of Music. “I just never fitted in. There isn’t any repertoire for the recorder for about 150 years, when all the orchestral music is. I couldn’t do anything with those people. And anyway, there’s this idea that you go to music college and you meet inspirational people – and it was loads of really stressed students in a basement practising.” She played in baroque chamber groups, and performed Malcolm Arnold concertos for recorder and orchestra, but everything felt off. “Wearing the right kind of socks, doing a bow, always having an encore prepared – I was concentrating on that and on getting all the notes right. I wasn’t really communicating.” So was she tempted to buy a velvet dress and just go touring around historical fairs? “I did start there!” she laughs. “At school, I used to play for medieval banquets in a haunted pub in Bungay. But I just get bored of there being rules, I don’t like being told what to do. And I’m really anti-twee. People think: ‘Recorders, how lovely!’ But they’ve got balls and energy – they can really bite.”Instead, she formed an experimental folk trio with a guitarist and cellist, Horses Brawl, who played for 11 years until “it was clear that we weren’t in the same place, kind of like the end of a relationship”. Solo, and trying to find a voice, she wandered into empty churches in rural Norfolk and just started playing. “I’d play something like Hildegard von Bingen,” she says, referring to the mystic medieval composer, “and take a bar and loop it and stretch it and change the timing, invert the notes, do anything I could to make it say it in a million different ways. Microscopic improvisation between two notes, thinking about all the space between them.”Her music is now formed partly from her own melodies, partly from improvisation, but mostly from tiny fragments of centuries-old compositions. One piece was the result of a printer malfunctioning and adding extra ink blobs to a stave – Cannell played it as it was printed. The result is heart-stopping music that has one foot in the loops of Steve Reich and John Adams, the other in the melodies of moorland England and medieval Europe. “As soon as something begins to sound like a genre,” she says, “I begin to lose interest. I want things that don’t tell you anything. I don’t want to go ‘The End!’ with a lovely perfect cadence where everyone can relax and clap. It’s not about that. I like to question, question, question, and then leave you hanging.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Here, you’re a minstrel scrabbling around’ … Cannell. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianTracks on her new album, Simultaneous Flight Movement, were recorded in single takes inside Southwold lighthouse, the sound flying around and feeding back off the hollow interior. It was the day of the EU referendum. “I went to the Methodist chapel round the corner to do my vote, and then stood in this enormous tower that looks out over the sea, playing fragments of music from all over Europe. Thinking about it going up through the tower, going out past the prism in the top, I just thought about all these ridiculous borders we’re putting up between each other. I was standing there, firmly planted, thinking, ‘Please don’t go!’” Quite apart from anything else, she says, Europe is better for touring. “They fund it, treat it like it’s an actual job. Whereas here, you’re a minstrel scrabbling around.”Cannell also rails against the “mental barriers” of her old classical music culture. “A lot of musicians aren’t creative, but are good at doing a particular type of thing,” she says, giving a guilty shrug. “Sorry! That sounds really judgmental. But I’ve worked with people where, if you take the score away, they’re completely fucked. They can’t make a single noise – they’re terrified of playing a wrong note. But there is no wrong.”Simultaneous Flight Movement is out now on Brawl Records. Laura Cannell plays Centrespace Gallery in Bristol on 18 November, then touring.  