Yet you may see the meaning of withinNow I’m not saying it’s a conspiracy or anything, but some people in the comments seem to know a bit too much about what’s going to happen in Mr Robot. Sure, in the fractured mental universe Elliot inhabits there was a possibility that his low-key life of diner lunches and basketball might have turned out to be a illusion, but a lot of you guys just seemed to know. I’m reporting you to Philip Price. Enjoy your moment of glory.Yes, it turned out to be all a dream. Actually, not a dream but a lie. Elliot is in prison for a crime as yet unspecified (is it the hack? Or Tyrell Wellick? Or something altogether different?). He says that he conjured up his apparently humdrum existence in order to protect us, his imaginary friend. He promises he won’t lie to us again. And he’s the hero, so we trust him, right?In terms of unreliable narration, Elliot upped the ante in this week’s excellent episode. His bedroom turned out to be a cell, his therapy was being conducted in the prison visiting room. His new pal Leon was not only a fellow con but allied to the Dark Army, and capable of sticking five men dead in a bloody frenzy. As for Ray and his online business empire, that remains unclear. Perhaps for good reason. After all, it would seem that prison authorities might be less than keen for an inmate to get unfettered access to the darknet from the comfort of their own cell (potential theory: Ray is actually a prison guard or governor and therefore has access to places ordinary prisoners would not). Whatever the truth, I for one have had my opinion of Elliot shifted. In a drama, that’s always a good thing.Maybe it was a necessary lie. The other thread to Elliot’s story this week is his reconciliation with Mr Robot, his acceptance that this persona will not only always be with him but actually is him. It’s Elliot who has violent compulsions and takes great risks. It is he who, as we are being (mis)led to understand, shot dead the murderer Wellick.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not only has Elliot reconciled with Mr Robot, but Mr Robot has actually started being nice. Photograph: AmazonWe will (un)learn more over the coming weeks, but I think it’s fair to say that this little coup de theatre is not a Bobby Ewing moment. We’ve learned that Elliot’s actions this season took place in a different context, but they still happened. I think.But listen to the colour of your dreamsElliot’s control as a narrator is not unlimited. He is not party to what is happening with Angela, for example. She begins this episode narrowly avoiding being sprung by my number one dream agent, Dominique DiPierro, and ends it isolated in Evil Corp’s Risk Management department (motto: Keep Calm and Manage Risk). It’s certainly an odd episode for her, the girl next door who transformed into a corporate killer. Dom knows she’s behind f.soc’s pwning of the FBI. And she’s right. But Angela’s new colleagues in Risk don’t trust her either after some awfully transparent manoeuvring to get hold of the files on the New York facility scandal (honestly, one day as a hacker and she thinks she’s Snowden).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One day as a hacker and she thinks she’s Snowden … Angela makes moves that would give Phillip Price a stroke. Photograph: AmazonWhy all the sudden risky moves? It could be that she’s been chastened by the encounter with her father who, in a move that would give Phillip Price a stroke, announced that he cared not for money at all and that any settlement he and his fellow class-actioners might agree to would be about truth and justice. That was what Angela wanted too, last season. But in taking Terry Colby’s bargain, she’s gone far in a direction where money is the only thing that talks. Perhaps her actions here were an attempt to rectify this. So far they don’t seem to have borne much fruit.Order v Chaos rating: 8The social and political climate is at a steady simmer. Phillip Price is still waiting for his bailout as a pair of big brass balls crash the congress floor. Outside, the Evil Corp HQ protesters are getting ever louder. Lady Wellick gets covered in (perhaps bull) blood, not for being a murderer though, just a capitalist.Finally we hear an announcement over the radio that taxis will no longer be taking cash. Instead, riders are encouraged to use E Coins. I presume this to be the proprietary currency of Evil Corp. I’m sure it was introduced to simplify daily transactions like paying electricity bills etc. But hey, what if the dollar was no longer a stable enough currency to trade in, thanks to, say, a massive hacking attack? Would that not make E Coins a very attractive alternative currency, one that was both stable and already being used by most households? What if that was what Evil Corp and WhiteRose wanted all along?Self harm index: greenNot only has Elliot learned to accept he is Mr Robot, Mr Robot has started being nice to Elliot. Not only does he hold his hand in solitary, he literally takes a beating from a bunch of goons on Elliot’s behalf (some brilliantly swift editing visually switching Mr Robot for Elliot every time a blow rained down). What an inspiring figure.QuestionsWhere is Ray? What are E Coins? Did Phillip look a little vulnerable as he talked about E Corp “haemorrhaging money”? Leon turns out to be pretty scary, huh?