TV: Black SailsSet timbers to shivered: the loud, lewd, loquacious sea-bandit drama returns, anachronistically pearly teeth and all. It may fall short of its lofty ambitions to be The Sopranos of the ocean, but that doesn’t mean this Toby Stephens-fronted saga of skulduggery doesn’t zip by agreeably. It also looks gorgeous, with galleons, guns and azure waters aplenty. A fine companion piece to Ripper Street and Vikings in Amazon Prime’s triumvirate of sumptuously violent historical dramas, the third series has just begun. But, this being on-demand, why not take the plunge from the very beginning?Amazon Prime Audio: Grub Street PodcastThe food podcast has enjoyed a remarkable rise in recent years, with the likes of Burnt Toast and Radio Cherry Bombe all proving popular listening for gourmands. This new addition to the genre comes from New York magazine’s blog Grub Street, and tackles the big issues in fine and not-so-fine dining, from the rise of the chicken sandwich to where to find the perfect martini. Unsurprisingly, the focus is on NYC’s eating scene, but given that the city tends to lead the way when it comes to food trends – from Shake Shack to the cronut – that’s not necessarily a bad thing for the forward-thinking foodie.iTunesTV: Tracey Ullman’s ShowUllman’s return has received mixed notices from critics, with some criticising her sketch show as feeling dated. Maybe, but it’s not without the occasional inspired moment, notably her on-point impression of a gossipy Angela Merkel. You can catch the series so far on the iPlayer.iPlayerTV: The Mad World Of Donald TrumpDefying all logic, Trump’s presidential campaign motors on, with the berkish billionaire favourite to win this week’s Iowa Republican caucuses. Channel 4 News’s Matt Frei, formerly the BBC’s man in Washington, is well-placed to put Trump’s rise into context, and here follows the White House hopeful on a campaign trail that’s part Nigel Farage, part PT Barnum. Of course, the temptation with Trump is to point and laugh, but there’s much to be troubled by, from his divisive rhetoric to his attacks on those who dare question his credentials, as evidenced here with testimony from former breakfast TV host Selina Scott.All4TV: Lemmy - In His Own WordsWe’re still waiting for the definitive posthumous doc on the Motörhead frontman, who died in December. But this iPlayer-only one-off should fill the gap. Made up of interviews and performance footage, it shows Lemmy at his rowdy, cantankerous and, yes, rocking best.BBC iPlayer