Murder Most Unladylike by Robin Stevensreview by EmilyThe book is about two girls who go to boarding school, and two of their teachers are murdered. The girls form a detective society, and solve the mystery of the murdered teachers. I think children aged 9+ would enjoy it if they read it themselves. Maybe someone older could read it to younger children, as they would enjoy it just as much. I loved this book! I liked it because just when they are on the cusp of solving it, it suddenly all falls apart! It also has two of my favourite things to read about in one book, mysteries and boarding schools. I give it five stars out of five! My favourite bit of the book was when Mademoiselle reveals her secret! I also really like the Charlie Bone books by Jenny Nimmo.Charlie Bone and the Shadow of Baldock by Jenny Nimmoreview by AleksandraThis book is about Charlie’s adventures in Badlock. It is the seventh book in the Charlie Bone series, and I’ve loved them all. In this one, Charlie is ‘endowed’ and his ‘capacity’ is being able to know what people are saying in photos. Anyone who loves magic would really enjoy this book. Perhaps children of 8+ would like it best. I really liked it as much as all the other Charlie Bone books. I love them because they take me into another world. I give it 4.5 stars out of five. I’m now reading Murder Most Unladylike by Robin Stevens as my friend Emily really recommended it.Grunts in Trouble by Philip AardaghReview by ScarletThis book is about a family of ugly people who steal a boy from a washing line! They live in a caravan that Mr Grunt made with his father. They are always moving, because if they stayed in one place they would cause trouble.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I think girls aged about 10 would enjoy this book. I think my friend Martha would really like it as she likes the same things as me, and I really enjoyed this book. Martha likes funny books and this is a really funny book. It was different, funny and not too long! I give it five out of five stars. My favourite bit was when the fireworks are set off by Larry Smalls.Witchworld by Emma FischelReview by LexieWitchworld is about Flo, who lives with her mum and her sister. Her sister is called Hetty, and Hetty thinks her nose isn’t warty or pointy enough. Her mum runs a magazine called Hocus Pocus, which is full of gossip and scandal about famous witches. Flo’s grandma comes to stay and tells everyone that the ghouls are going to attack and no one believes her... I think people who loved Goth Girl would love this book as Chris Riddell does the pictures. I really liked it, as it was really fun. I’m reading the next one now. I give it 4.5 stars out of five.Want to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!