In his Late Style series, which he is playing across the US, Italy, the Netherlands and in London – at Milton Court, Barbican on 8 November, returning next year – the American pianist Jonathan Biss, 36, explores the music Beethoven, Brahms, Chopin, Schubert, Schumann and Kurtág wrote near the end of their lives.Life can be short or long, death lingering or sudden. Is there any common thread in the music you’re playing in this three-concert series?Actually, it’s the lack of a common thread that really interests me. Playing these works, I feel clearly that these composers are moving in new directions late in life, but those directions vary enormously, composer to composer. Schubert, who died at the impossibly young age of 31, faced mortality with a feverish intensity. In contrast, Mozart, who was almost as young, brought an almost naive but profound simplicity to his late works – think of the Clarinet Concerto, or the Clarinet Quintet. Bach, 65 when he died, became more abstract and austere – The Art of the Fugue is so extreme in that way. And Elgar, writing his final works around the same age, though he lived on into his 70s, became incredibly emotionally expansive – in the Piano Quintet, the String Quartet, the Violin Sonata.You haven’t stuck to piano music then?No, because the idea of late style isn’t tied to the piano, or any other instrument. I’ve had to pick and choose quite a lot, but I couldn’t imagine this project without a Beethoven string quartet or Schubert lieder. Like nearly every pianist I know, my right hand feels more secure than my left – and yet I’m extremely left-handed You come from a family of musicians. What difference did that make?It means there was never a time when I wasn’t surrounded by music. If music is a language – and I certainly think it is! – it’s one I was exposed to from the time I was born, just like English. As my parents are both violinists, I grew up hearing music produced with bows. I suspect that’s had an effect on the kind of sound I’m searching for on the piano. I’m always trying to minimise the percussive aspect, instead wanting to pull, coax the sound…I guess home life was pretty different from that of your school friends?I was a musically obsessed, nerdy kind of kid. We lived in Bloomington, Indiana, where there’s a big music faculty where my parents taught. It was a leafy, beautiful university town without much else going on. My father was a conductor too. He conducted [Verdi’s] Rigoletto when I was six. Apparently I would sit and “study” the score, though I’m not sure I could even read music. But I was completely transfixed by it. As a teenager I was sort of awkward and bespectacled, not unhappy but certainly not going with the grain, not part of the in-crowd. I had a passion which no one around me really shared. At 17 I went to the Curtis Institute of Music and suddenly found I was surrounded by people with the same fixation. It was a revelation: that being besotted with music wasn’t necessarily isolating.You’ve said you have bad coordination. Yet you’re a virtuoso pianist!Yes, it’s funny how playing the piano doesn’t seem to carry over into other forms of physical competence! For example, like nearly every pianist I know, my right hand feels more secure than my left – and yet I’m extremely left-handed. If you threw a ball to my right I would instinctively reach for it with my left hand. But for all that, weirdly, playing the piano feels natural to me.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The digital world has opened up new possibilities for you. You’ve published a Kindle Single, Beethoven’s Shadow – with another on its away, on the Late Style theme. You’ve also taught an online course on Beethoven’s Piano Sonatas, with more than 50,000 people signing up. Is it the way forward for classical music?It’s a way forward. Certainly, it’s the single biggest change my generation of musicians is confronting, and it opens up many new possibilities. It means there’s much more freedom now to build a musical life (career seems an ugly word) tailored specifically to your personality and talents.Can you describe the process of performing?The time that you’re out there on stage playing, it’s a period of heightened intensity, difficult and exhilarating at the same time. One of the things we have to work at as performers is trying to harness that energy. With the right attitude it can be inspiring, or it can be the thing that eats you. I love living with that kind of intensity. I’m not an adrenaline junkie in any other way, but playing a great work in real time for an audience is exhilarating in a way that I need. It’s wonderful to play Beethoven’s Op 111 alone in a room. But in front of a hall of people listening, something happens.Jonathan Biss plays Beethoven with the Brentano String Quartet at Milton Court, London on 8 November as part of the Barbican’s music programme, returning in 2017 for a solo recital of Brahms and more on 27 March, and Schubert’s Schwanengesang with the tenor Mark Padmore on 2 May