 There wasn’t much fuss about Andrea Wulf’s gender when she won the Royal Society Insight Investment science book prize for her biography of Alexander von Humboldt. But her victory means that, just like the Wellcome book prize – won by Marion Coutts in 2015 and Suzanne O’Sullivan in 2016 – the Royal Society award has gone to a woman for the last two years.Andrea Wulf on a scientific adventurer 'chased by 10,000 pigs'  The “boffins’ Booker” was staggeringly staggish before Gaia Vince claimed it last year with Adventures in the Anthropocene. In the previous 10 years, only three out of 60 Royal Society shortlistees were female, with precisely zero women appearing on the shortlist between 2010 and 2013.What changed? The continuing rise of women in science broadcasting and shifts in publishing doubtless played a part, but the timing suggests that the Royal Society’s award was jolted into a rethink by the Wellcome book prize. This upstart has always been dramatically more woman-friendly, thanks to a remit which allows fiction and interprets the requirement for an engagement with “some aspect of medicine, health or illness” very freely. Five of the seven winners since the award launched in 2009 have been women, but it wasn’t really showing up the older award as grey, blokeish and hidebound until it relaunched in 2014. A new tagline – books “for the incurably curious” – implied a still freer idea of science literature, while high-profile non-boffin judges led the publicity charge. So it seems no coincidence that Vince found herself on the Royal Society podium just a year after the first new-style Wellcome winner. Wulf’s life of Humboldt is the first single-subject biography to win the Royal Society’s prize since 1999, while Vince combines her personal quest with portraits of lives affected by the plundering of the planet. So perhaps female science writers are more likely to focus on people, while their male counterparts are more likely to address a problem, a mystery or an underexplored scientific field. Popular history writing remains a male preserve, publishing study finds The idea of such a split shouldn’t be pushed too far – neither Andrew Solomon’s 2014 Wellcome winner Far from the Tree nor Steve Silberman’s 2015 Samuel Johnson winner NeuroTribes could be accused of shunning the human – but it certainly held true at this year’s Royal Society ceremony. The men on the shortlist introduced books about geo-engineering, eggs, the hunt for a non-existent planet and the history of genes. In contrast, Wulf enthused about her globetrotting genius and Jo Marchant read a passage from her exploration of mind-over-body healing, Cure – the only extract that reached for the messy subjectivity of the first person.