How do you mostly listen to music? On the radio or the CD player in the car.What was the first ever record or cd you bought? When I was about 15, we did a production of Gilbert & Sullivan’s The Sorcerer with the Boys’ Grammar School in Cheltenham, and I fell in love with the Sorcerer, who was called Jim. I bought an Elvis record, the flip side was Just tell her Jim said hello - no idea what the A-side was. What was the last piece of music you bought? I just did a concert at Leighton House and had to sing a song by Arnold Bax: I heard a piper piping. I hadn’t sung it for years and had lost my copy.What’s your musical guilty pleasure?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Beach Boys - I Get AroundPlaying the Beach Boys very loudly in the car, singing along and driving too fast.If you found yourself with six months free to learn a new instrument, what would you choose? I would try to learn the guitar. It would be so good to have a portable instrument and be able to play it and sing. But I never managed that with the piano, so it would probably be a non-starter.Is applauding between movements acceptable? It depends on the piece and which movement comes next. Some orchestral movements seem to cry out for applause and it’s a shame to make the audience stifle it out of good manners. But I’ve done performances of Strauss’ Four Last Songs when the audience has applauded between the songs which was quite disturbing as the four songs build up an atmosphere if they are allowed an uninterrupted flow. And I remember a performance of the Messiah in Calgary where the audience applauded each of the choruses, until they broke into applause after He trusted in God that he would deliver Him and the conductor turned round and screamed “NO”, before the tenor sang “Thy rebuke hath broken His heart”. That was arguably more disturbing than the applause!   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?A very long time ago now there was an unforgettable performance of Mahler 2 in Birmingham, given by Simon Rattle and the CBSO, with Arleen Auger and Alfreda Hodgson. It was absolutely overwhelming.We’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why? I should like to have been born in the 1890’s, to experience La Belle Epoque in Paris. I could go to the premiere of Der Rosenkavalier in Dresden in 1911 and meet Richard Strauss, and I should be able to attend the first performance of Capriccio in 1942. I would also meet André Messager and Reynaldo Hahn, and go to see Yvonne Printemps and Sacha Guitry on stage in Paris in the 20s as well as Noel Coward and Gertrude Lawrence in London. Then back to Paris to meet Francis Poulenc. Of course I would have to live through two world wars.Do you enjoy musicals? Do you have a favourite?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   1961 film West Side Story Photograph: Allstar/UNITED ARTISTS/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarYes I do. Perhaps West Side Story.Which conductor or performer of yester-year do you most wish you could have worked with? I don’t think I could have coped with him, but in theory I would love to have worked with Leonard Bernstein. He was so charismatic in all kinds of music.What’s the most overrated classical work? - ie is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to?Carmina Burana. It makes me want to kill people with its insistent beat.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony Bennett performing at The Pearl concert theater at the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas 2011. Photograph: Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesWhich non-classical musician would you love to work with? Tony Bennett.Dame Felicity Lott is Patron of City of London Sinfonia, and performs with them in The Viennese Salon concert at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, London on 24 January. Details: www.cls.co.uk