On a sweaty summer afternoon in Los Angeles, Carlos Niño sat behind the boards in the modest, un-air conditioned studio of Dublab, the internet radio station that’s been broadcasting for 17 years. With a bushy beard taking over his face and a blue-gemmed ring on his pinky finger, Niño transmits supernatural jazz and acid-licked folk rock at a bit rate of 320. His co-host Miguel Atwood-Ferguson sat in the corner, with a Mac laptop balancing on his knees and his shoes nowhere to be seen.At around half-past two, they switched on the microphones for a brief spoken interlude. “This is Theme Galaxy, our theme today is ‘mystical, spiritual, and psychedelic.’ Let’s talk about these pieces,” said Niño with the easy tone of a waiter explaining your salumi plate. “Carioca in the set. He is one of the great keepers of the Santo Daime mystical music of the ayahuasca tradition in Brazil, and this album that he made, which I love dearly, is called Mistérios da Amazônia. We heard an excerpt of the title track, which is much longer and really keeps going into all these different spaces.” “Wow,” Atwood-Ferguson replied.Niño and Atwood-Ferguson are both respected composers and players around the city who have collaborated on songs with everyone from Flying Lotus to the 1975, and while Niño has had a show on Dublab in one form or another since the station began in 1999, this monthly joint venture was still less than a year old. Behind Niño’s head, Dublab’s motto glowed in neon letters, “FUTURE ROOTS RADIO.” Alejandro Cohen, the station’s Argentina-born executive director, explained that the sign, and the others around the station, were gifted to them by a Dublab DJ who once interned for the guy who does all the neon for the stores in the Valley.How London’s NTS is helping to redefine live radio For the best part of two decades Dublab has existed on a subfrequency of Los Angeles-born radio, one not advertised on highway billboards or emblazoned on tote bags earned with a pledge of $10 a month. It’s become a haven and destination for seekers and eccentrics, an unconventional entity that might start its broadcast day with languid disco and that schedules its hyper-kinetic juke show for the early afternoon on a Tuesday. “People usually explore music in such a limited capacity compared to what is possible,” says Mark “Frosty” McNeill, one of Dublab’s co-founders.Besides what they send out streaming into the world, Dublab has become an experiential presence in Los Angeles. The station throws its own themed events, like the ambient-focused Tonalism, and sets up club nights where they only play sad music and keep boxes of tissues on hand. The broadcast schedule is filled with an evolving roster of Los Angeles DJs and music obsessives. As McNeill says: “Any night of the week, Dublab DJs are playing somewhere in the city.”A broad swath of outsiders also seek out Dublab’s curatorial talents. The High Times Cannabis Cup had them take over a stage this past summer at its event in San Bernardino, while the Los Angeles Music Center – Downtown’s hub for usually staid classical music and opera – began a relationship with Dublab a little over a year ago to get them to advise on and book special events. McNeill started Dublab and was the station’s director for its first 16 years. Now he broadly defines his role as: “DJ, board member, creative consultant, project manager, spirit guide.” He became interested in radio while attending the University of Southern California in the 1990s. Back in the 1970s the school turned its station, KUSC, over to public radio, where it was staffed with professionals and became the region’s biggest classical music station. In response, a group of students created KSCR, an unlicensed, low wattage radio station. While working at KSCR, McNeill became the station director and made the decision, progressive at the time, to schedule electronic music shows throughout the day, not just during the late night hours. More importantly, he discovered that USC had an unused Real Media server sitting in a closet, so the station began broadcasting its FM signal through the internet, a rare move for any radio station during that time.The Federal Communications Commissioned ended up shutting KSCR’s terrestrial broadcasts, but McNeill already realized the possibilities of internet radio. He found a partner for his vision in Jon Buck, who was more interested in the business side of medium. With a financial investment from Buck’s family, Dublab began broadcasting from a storefront off of Melrose Blvd that had been converted into a studio.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   DubLab radio. Photograph: Courtesy of DubLabFrom the start, McNeill put together a cultivated roster of DJs. He brought along KSCR DJs, such as beat scene mainstay Daedelus. He picked up his favorite DJs who also had shows on local freeform FM stations like KPFK and KXLU. He scooped other talent, including Aurelito and Shakespeare, a pair that famously ran a reggae soundsystem from inside of a converted ice cream truck. In later years they brought on artists like Gaslamp Killer and Flying Lotus, whose Brainfeeder radio show on the station would come to provide the name for his own record label. Recent DJs include the ultra mellow Suzanne Kraft and Brian Shimkowitz of the Awesome Tapes from Africa imprint. This year alone has seen new shows for more established names, like Tunde Adebimpe of TV on the Radio, Jennifer Herema of Royal Trux, and underground LA hip-hop’s Cut Chemist.“We saw online radio as the wild west of media – a place that could be defined, could be invented, and could be made to do what we wanted to do,” says Cohen, who got involved with Dublab in its early days.Internet radio and streaming music were still in their nascent stages, and Dublab had to develop custom software and programs to even be heard. In the beginning they were still broadcasting over a dial up modem. Taken with the interactive possibilities of this technology, they originally had an active text chat so people could communicate with the DJs and a video simulcast that up the bandwidth. A global community of listeners soon found them. “For a lot of people it was like magic, and for us it was magic that people were out there,” says McNeill.As Dublab found its footing, in 2001 the internet bubble burst. The situation got dicey, but it managed to hang on, even as its more well funded competitors went bust. “A lot of these players in the late ’90s were throwing money at these radio stations [that were] basically not challenging the notion of what music could be online,” says Daedelus. “Dublab was really something from a different direction, especially in those early days.”Best albums of 2014: No 9 - You're Dead! by Flying Lotus The station moved to its current location above a nightclub on the fringes of Silver Lake, parted ways with Jon Buck and in 2008 it officially changed its status to a not-for-profit. They’ve pursued side projects, like releasing music as a label and putting on art shows, but over the past few years they’ve decided to return the focus to the station itself.As streaming becomes the norm, major streaming services have put together teams of actual humans whose job is to create highly specialized playlists for users to draw from. But there’s still something charming about Dublab’s loose approach. “There’s something nice about clicking on the radio and having something that’s familiar, but within that, having the unexpected arise. [Dublab is] this brain trust of music, and the people who are involved have dedicated their lives to exploring music, and they’re also very open to sharing,” says McNeill.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark ‘Frosty’ McNeill (left) and Alejandro Cohen of DubLab radio. Photograph: Courtesy of DubLabWhile Dublab keeps refining its niche in the global streaming music landscape, it will soon establish an even greater local presence. After working on it for five years, they recently received a Low Power FM Radio license from the FCC and will also be terrestrial in Los Angeles. In 2017, listeners will be able to find them in the middle of the dial at 99.1FM. “I’m literally driving around looking for buildings in the area to put the antenna,” says Cohen.On a late August evening, DJ Heidi Lawden wrapped up Magic Roundabout, her bimonthly show filled with cosmic house music and charming dance edits. Next up was House Shoes, a Detroit transplant who has been in Los Angeles for a decade, to wrap up with the last live set of the night. The lights were dimmed to just an eerie purple. Then toward the end of his set all the power to the DJ equipment and computers suddenly cut out, resulting the dreaded dead air. As House Shoes and his friends spent several minutes tracing wires and flipping switches using their iPhones as flashlights, I thought of something that McNeill had told me. “We always wanted to make those folks understand that this is not a computer thing,” he said. “We wanted to every once in a while have the needle skate across the record or Jimmy Tamborello knock a coffee over into a DJ mixer and you heard it sizzle out live on air.”