Nine new species of scorpions have been discovered in Arizona in the past half-dozen years but many remain unknown to science, a reflection of the paucity of experts qualified to recognise them rather than any shortage of scorpions. Anatomically, the latest species, Vaejovis brysoni, is unremarkable, differing from related species in details. It is small, just a bit over an inch, brown in colour, and lives in oak forests in the Santa Catalina mountains just outside Tuscon at about 1,800m elevation. Like the more than 1,700 other kinds of scorpion, it is a predator and no serious threat to people. In spite of their Hollywood reputation, only a couple of dozen species are capable of killing a human and then often only the young or weak.The new species was described by Richard Ayrey. He is an amateur scorpion enthusiast who lives in Flagstaff, Arizona, and has described new scorpions before. As fewer professionals are paid to do taxonomy in universities or museums, amateurs have picked up some of the slack. In Europe, for example, more than half of the species newly described each year are named by amateurs. As one might fear some of the worst taxonomy is done by amateurs. On the other hand, so is some of the best. Unconstrained by the need to publish several papers a year or work within the time frame of a government grant, amateurs are able to spare no time or effort if they so choose. I am not sure when the word amateur became defamatory. What, after all, should be wrong with doing something for the pure love of it?What struck me about the new scorpion was the choreography visible in a photo of a specimen of the new species carrying a couple of dozen juveniles on its back. Curiously, all of the young are oriented in the same direction, heads forward and down, tails overlapping the sibling behind them like so many roof tiles. How bizarre! Why would these tiny, not yet fully developed animals align themselves with such precise conformity?The species is named for the individual who first collected it, Robert Bryson Jr. Aside from having an immediately recognisable body form replete with menacing pincers and a conspicuously advertised sting, scorpions have the curious property of fluorescing an eerie cyan-green colour when viewed under ultraviolet light. This is how the new species was found, searching the desert with a black light. The adaptive advantage to the scorpion of fluorescing, if any, remains unknown, although a recent suggestion gaining popularity is that their entire bodies may function as photon collectors that, like a giant “eye”, detect light in the UV spectrum. This might, as one story goes, permit these secretive creatures to “see” when all or part of their body is hidden from the view of predators.As an entomologist, I was always curious how stings of scorpions compare to those of the various bees and wasps I have crossed paths with. While living in Arizona, I found out and now wish that I did not know. The bark scorpion, Centruroides sculpturatus, can be dangerous to children and the elderly and excruciatingly painful to the rest of us. I used to find a couple of them each year in my house. I describe my first encounter as follows. Imagine breaking a hollow glass tube to expose a jagged edge, then stabbing it into the tender tip of your thumb at 30-second intervals for about half an hour. My gratitude at the numbness that followed was short lived, as it spread through my hand and nearly to my elbow in the days that followed. Ayrey noted in his paper that an identical alignment of young occurs also in a closely related species of the same genus. Like florescence, the adaptive importance of synchronized gregariousness can only be speculated but one immediate explanation is clear. The young are positioned in parallel because the same was true of the young of the ancestral species common to this and related species of Vaejovis. Sometimes it is that simple.