Earlier this month, the New York Times ran a feature about the London international mime festival (LIMF) in which Improbable’s Phelim McDermott observed: “If you look back through any new movement in theatre, you can always see the beginnings of it in the mime festival.” The article’s writer, Matt Trueman, agreed, noting that “many of the artists and companies nurtured by the festival have pushed closer to the mainstream”, citing Improbable, Complicite and Toby Sedgwick, formerly of Moving Picture Mime Show, who went on to be the movement director on War Horse. It’s good to see the undoubted influence of LIMF being celebrated. But the article supports the problematic notion that there is a binary between the mainstream and all of the rest, and that everyone secretly aspires to make War Horse. Trueman does make the point that as “the mainstream has expanded, it has swallowed alternative work rather than spawned it”.The mainstream’s magpie-like tendency to alight on what glitters and nab a bit for itself is apparent on the well-funded stages of the big flagship companies, in the West End, and in every form of theatre from puppetry and circus through to verbatim theatre.The genuine reinventions, such as London Road, are few and far between. More often what you get are borrowed glad rags. A few years back, the producers of the London version of the Broadway musical Spring Awakening used every contemporary performance trope in the book, and spent millions artfully making the show look as if it had been produced for no money at all.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sinead Matthews as Cassandra in Women of Troy at the National Theatre. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianWhat usually happens is that original and experimental artists are gradually absorbed into a wider theatre culture, often benefitting from the better working conditions and better funding that are available in the mainstream. When that leads to Women of Troy by Katie Mitchell (an artist who has faced considerable difficulties in the British mainstream) or Simon McBurney’s The Encounter (which combines the ancient art of storytelling with cutting-edge binaural technology, and arrives at the Barbican next month), it is thrilling. But sometimes it leads to a leeching of the very things that made an artist’s work most distinctive in the first place.In a tight funding climate, it’s not surprising that independent theatre-makers are attracted to the opportunities and financial support that the mainstream can offer. But those opportunities sometimes come at a price, particularly when such partnerships simply replicate the conventional power relationships of traditional theatre.One of the problems is that theatre which is genuinely experimental in form, content or politics is unlikely to subscribe to the same values that the mainstream so often espouses. Nor does it share the grim determination of the marketing departments which mistakenly still think that their job is to sell tickets rather than build communities. That’s why a real change of culture, and not just an invitation to step through the door, is required from mainstream organisations when they decide to embrace independent theatre-makers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cutting edge … Simon McBurney in Complicite’s The Encounter. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianIn a fine recent article in Exeunt, Amelia Cavallo wrote about disability arts, asking whether they should even be trying to aim themselves at the mainstream. A blind theatre-maker and actor who was recently seen in the Royal Exchange’s revival of Into the Woods, Cavallo makes a number of points that apply not just to disability arts but to all theatre, about the gains and losses that come from aligning with the mainstream. She says that, in trying to secure “a place at the table” rather than challenging why the table is there in the first place, disability arts could be in danger of losing “what makes us so exciting in the first place”.It’s an argument that can be applied to all kinds of independent theatre, and reminds us that while the lure of the mainstream may be strong, not all that glitters is gold.