The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set withI never really know. It depends on where I’m playing, the size of the room, whether I’m playing peak time or closing. It varies, so I always like to be prepared for any situation that’s thrown my way.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor The Aztec Mystic: Knights Of The Jaguar   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This tune gets house and techno crowds alike on to the dancefloor. I try to play good music of all genres that connects with people, no matter what their tastes.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Jamie 3:26 & Cratebug: Hit N Quit It   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I haven’t played one set in the last year where I haven’t played this track. It’s the absolute bomb.The track that should have been a crossover hit Honey Dijon And Tim K ft John Mendelsohn: Thunda   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Not to toot my own horn, but I felt like this track had potential to cross over because John has such a great voice. I wanted people to love it as much as I did.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Front 242: Headhunter   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In Chicago we have a lot of clubs that play industrial and punk music that I find funky and soulful. I drop this from time to time.The track that got me out of bed this morning Earth, Wind & Fire: Runnin’ (Danny Krivit re-edit)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’ve been listening to loads of EW&F since the recent passing of Maurice White. We have lost so many inspirational artists since the beginning of 2016. So I’ve had lots of Bowie and EW&F on.The track I wish I’d signed to my labeL Wbeeza: Creek   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I don’t have a label at the moment, but if I did I’d sign anything by Wbeeza. He’s a badass producer from Peckham and I love practically everything he does.The ideal festival track Plastikman: Spastik   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There is a reason why some tunes stand the test of time and become classics. You can play this track at any party from a warehouse to a huge festival and it still kills it.The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding Unlimited Touch: I Hear Music In The Streets   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Knowing my family, it would have to be a basement party tune. This one reminds me of family barbecues, sunshine and laughter.Honey Dijon plays Gloria’s at XOYO, EC2, Friday