“Think of tonight as the Oscars, but with diversity ... It is so diverse that Donald Trump has threatened to build a wall around this theatre” James Corden, opening the show“I’ve never been one to rush into things, but at the age of 62 – 42 years into a career – that this should come my way. All that means that the depth of my gratitude, is really, really, really profound.”Jayne Houdyshell, accepting her award for best performance by an actress in a featured role (for The Humans)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest James Corden opens the Tony awardsTony awards 2016: Hamilton sweeps the board, winning 11 Tonys “My wife’s the reason anything gets doneShe nudges me towards promise by degreesShe is a perfect symphony of oneOur son is her most beautiful reprise.We chase the melodies that seem to find usUntil they’re finished songs and start to playWhen senseless acts of tragedy remind usThat nothing here is promised, not one day.This show is proof that history remembersWe lived through times when hate and fear seemed stronger;We rise and fall and light from dying embersRemembrances that hope and love last longerAnd love is love is love is love is love is love is love is love cannot be killed or swept aside.I sing Vanessa’s symphony, Eliza tells her story, Now fill the world with music, love and pride.”Lin-Manuel Miranda’s sonnet in honour of his wife and those killed in Orlando, accepting his award for best score (for Hamilton)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lin-Manuel Miranda recites his sonnet at the Tony awards“I went to see David Bowie in The Elephant Man on Broadway [in 1980]. A woman came up to me as I was sat on a bench and I told her I wanted to be a theatre director. She grabbed a piece of paper and asked me to sign it because she said ‘You never know’. If she’s watching now, I was right.”Ivo van Hove, accepting his best director award (for A View from the Bridge)“The show has always been a beacon of life, love and tolerance”Josh Groban on Fiddler on the Roof“To be on Broadway, you have to work hard and study for years and years. Or you can do what I did: already be famous.”Steve Martin on Bright Star “Winning an award means everything. It’s the first lesson I learned at Trump University.”Nathan LaneTony awards 2016 - complete list of winners “The cast of On Your Feet: we all have papers, and believe it or not they’re all legal.”Emilio Estefan“If I didn’t deserve it, this would be embarrassing.”Sheldon Harnick on his lifetime achievement Tony award“When something bad happens we have three choices – we let it define us, we let it destroy us or we let it strengthen us. Today in Orlando we had a hideous dose of reality. I urge you to be strong … We will be with you every step of the way.”Frank Langella, accepting his award for best performance by an actor in a leading role in a play (for The Father)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Frank Langella at the Tony awards 2016“It’s a musical about the miracle that is America.”Michelle Obama on Hamilton“It’s great, mate, but it’s going on a bit, isn’t it? I’m only here for the party”James Corden’s dad“Our joy is tinged with sadness but we’re here to celebrate Broadway. Art can entertain and educate us and at times like these console us.”Barbra Streisand presenting the award for best musical“Alexander Hamilton was a dreamer ... I stand on this stage surrounded by dreamers. Inclusiveness, generosity, ingenuity and the will to work hard to make our dreams come true. Look around – how lucky we are to be alive right now.”Jeffrey Seller, accepting the best musical award (for Hamilton)