December 2009 was supposed to be the turning of the tide, when humans collectively liberated the future from the carbon scourge.But at the United Nations climate change conference  in Copenhagen collaboration ran hard against the reality of global politics. The meeting ended in disorder, despondency and an accord that tacitly admitted the world could not work in cooperation.Developing countries sharply felt the pain of the missed opportunity. The developed world had promised them billions of dollars in support while simultaneously removing the means to fulfil the pledge. They left Copenhagen calling the pseudo-deal a "suicide pact".The question had been: could the world agree on meaningful, binding reductions in emissions to avoid dangerous climate change? Preceding the final day of negotiations, US president Barack Obama said: "While the reality of climate change is not in doubt … I think our ability to take collective action is."Leading into the conference, expectations had been raised to extraordinary heights. A global advertising campaign run by the UN called for a treaty under the strapline 'Hopenhagen'. Writing during the meeting, the Guardian's George Monbiot said the 15th conference of parties was "the moment at which we turn and face ourselves. Here ... humankind decides what it is and what it will become."But soon reality hit home. The US was intransigent on legally binding emissions reductions. China refused to accept international verification of its own efforts. Many countries, gripped by financial crisis and austerity, offered less than expected.On the final evening of the conference, after 12 days of inconclusive negotiations, Obama joined heads of major developing countries and in three hours in a closed room the leaders knocked out a draft document that would become known as the Copenhagen accord.It included commitments to keep global temperature rises below 2C and to raise $100bn (£60bn) per year by 2020 to help developing countries cut emissions. But nothing on emissions reduction targets. The plenary neither accepted nor rejected the accord, simply 'noting' it – the UN version of diplomatic purgatory.Many viewed the non-agreement in Copenhagen as the death rattle of climate change collaboration and climate justice. Lumumba Di-Aping, head of the G77 group of 130 poorest nations called it "a suicide pact, an incineration pact in order to maintain the economic dominance of a few countries."Meena Raman who represented Third World Network at the conference says: "It was absolutely disastrous. It caused a decade of non-negotiations."Michele de Nevers, was attached to the World Bank delegation. She says the lack of an overarching agreement made setting a carbon price impossible. "Whether it was a high price or a low price didn't matter as much as the fact that there would be an agreement on what the reduction of emissions was going to be … which would make all of these carbon markets for climate finance kick in functionally."De Nevers says the $100bn per year pledged for developing countries would have been "very easy to reach" had the world had a functioning carbon market. Instead the onus for fundraising has fallen on nation states. So far, the total pledged stands at $37.5bn, almost half of which comes from Japan.Yvo de Boer  who was the UN climate chief during the conference, says Copenhagen needed to be seen as a reality check for the climate change process."Paradoxically, one of the most significant outcomes of Copenhagen has been that it has lead us to fundamentally rethink what we actually need an international agreement for … I think Copenhagen severely damaged people's belief in multilateral negotiations as a way of achieving results."Two months before the conference, de Boer told the FT that Copenhagen was not going to deliver a new treaty.Copenhagen's problem was the "wildly differing expectations" people had for the meeting, says de Boer. A mistake he sees being repeated in the lead up to the already much-hyped Cop 21 in Paris in 2015. He says the world must quickly define a "common sense of purpose" for Paris, or hazard failure a second time.De Boer suggests four clear goals for the Paris summit that could be agreed to without the need to create a binding international agreement:• All countries should commit to a contribution, as opposed to a target.• All countries should commit to translate that contribution into national law as it is carries more weight than international law.• There should be a provision to review commitments or contributions every few years to take stock if we're still on track for the two degrees goal and adjust as necessary.• Finally, there needs to be a mechanism created to make clear the financial needs of developing countries and also agree on how those financial needs are going to be met.As campaigners anticipate the specific outcomes of Cop 21, it remains to be seen whether the conference will step out of the shadow of Copenhagen and revive trust in multilateral negotiations as a way of achieving progress.Editors note: What are the conferences, speeches, reports, partnerships or rifts that have defined the climate change movement? Email Holly Young to contribute to our new series on defining movements - holly.young@theguardian.comJoin the community of global development professionals and experts. Become a GDPN member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox