Earlier this year, a group of female executives in Silicon Valley surveyed over 200 women in the tech industry about workplace sexism.The survey, called Elephant in the Valley, was inspired by the trial concerning Ellen Pao’s discrimination lawsuit against Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. It makes for depressing reading. Some 60% of the women surveyed had been subject to unwanted sexual advances, 66% reported feeling excluded from social and networking activities due to their gender, and 90% had witnessed sexist behavior at conferences or company retreats. “Honestly, the list is just too long,” one industry veteran responded when asked about networking events that excluded women. “This is an industry that has Cougar Night practically next door to my office and thinks it’s perfectly appropriate to meet there for business conversations.”Since some of the big tech companies began releasing their generally dismal diversity statistics back in 2014, prompting rebukes from both the media and the federal government, the race has been on to make Silicon Valley a more welcoming place for women and minorities. Solutions abound. Some companies are focusing on improving the pipeline, others are working harder to retain qualified women by eliminating gender pay gaps or implementing generous family leave policies. Others are trying to eliminate bias from the hiring and promotion process. “The discussion has moved beyond what we don’t consciously know … to what sort of cultures of diversity and inclusion are we creating in the meantime?” says Y-Vonne Hutchinson, the founder of ReadySet, a diversity consulting firm.Last month, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) published a report on diversity in tech. The report’s conclusions are grim: the tech sector employs fewer women and fewer minorities than other private sector industries, particularly in management/executive roles. “Standing still is not an option,” said Jenny Yang, the chair of the EEOC, at a hearing in Washington DC. “Expanding diversity and inclusion is critical to unlocking the full potential of tomorrow’s economy.”Here, we take a look at five Silicon Valley businesses who have taken steps to create a more diverse and inclusive workplace.NetflixLast August, Netflix announced new parents at the company will be able to take unlimited parental leave in the year after the birth or adoption of a child. This is consistent with the company’s unlimited leave policy, and permits parents to return to work part-time, if desired, or to alternate between work and leave throughout the first year. New parents receive their normal pay and benefits.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inside the Netflix office. Photograph: NetflixThe policy is still in its infancy, and a Netflix spokesperson declined to comment for this article. However, earlier this year, Casey Rosenthal, an engineering manager at Netflix, posted about the policy on LinkedIn. “By allowing me to figure out how to navigate this crucial time in my family’s development, my team is helping me be great, not just at home but at the office as well,” she wrote.AsanaWhen Asana, the high profile productivity and task management startup founded by former Facebook chief technology officer Dustin Moskovitz, decided it needed to more aggressively tackle diversity and inclusion it hired Paradigm, a diversity consulting firm. Paradigm relies heavily on social science research and analysis to help companies identify and address the specific barriers and unconscious biases that might be affecting their diversity efforts: things like anonymizing resumes so that employers can’t tell a candidate’s gender or ethnicity, or modifying a salary negotiation process that places women and minorities at a disadvantage.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The founders of Asana, Dustin Moskovitz and Justin Rosenstein. Photograph: AsanaAsana applicants first undergo a completely anonymous coding challenge before interviewing in person. Technical interviews at Asana no longer involve a traditional whiteboard interview, in which candidates are given a coding challenge and expected to write code on a whiteboard while their interviewers watch and lob questions at them. Paradigm’s research suggests that women often fare poorly in such interviews, even when they’ve done well on other coding tests. Instead, Asana interviewers leave the room so candidates can tackle coding challenges on their own. “The typical whiteboard interview can be intimidating for a lot for people,” says Tyler Nisonoff, a software engineer at Asana who interviews candidates. “I know it was extremely intimidating for me and this other alternative form allows candidates to shine in a different way.”Asana is also working to build a culture that allows women and minorities to be successful after they’re hired, an area that trips up even progressive tech companies. Mentorships, for example, can help a young person’s career but can also serve to confer further advantages on already privileged employees, if not handled correctly. The young Stanford grad arrives at his new tech job, runs into an older Stanford alum in the hallway, and career advancement ensues.To help counteract this possibility, every new engineer at Asana is matched with an engineering mentor who helps them get up to speed and navigate any weakness in their technical background. Employees have access to external executive coaches who assist employees with communication, leadership and management skills. The company has also recently launched employee resource groups for underrepresented groups.BufferIn 2013, Buffer, a social media startup, made the somewhat radical decision to post all of its employees’ salaries online, along with the formula the company uses to calculate those salaries. (The formula is based based on the market rate for a position, the employee’s experience level and the cost of living in the employee’s location.)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Buffer video all-hands meeting. Photograph: Buffer“I would say when we did it back then, it was not as much around diversity and inclusivity,” says Joel Gascoigne, the company’s CEO and co-founder. “But I think over time we’ve started to realize that it can have a big impact as well and transparency can really help a lot there.”Buffer didn’t initially analyze the data by gender, but a recent analysis found that, despite a fairly objective formula, women at the company still earned less. “We really thought our salary formula was bias-proof,” says Courtney Seiter, who oversees inclusivity at Buffer. “We were wrong. We did our best and we did not quite make it there. So what we’re doing now is getting a lot more explicit with experience areas. It’s the only area of the formula where there’s really anything up for debate.”The company has taken a similar approach to diversity, establishing a public diversity dashboard on its website that tracks the characteristics of its applicants and team. In addition to efforts to further bias-proof the salary formula, the company has scrubbed job descriptions of gendered pronouns and words and rethought conversations about the importance of “culture fit” during the hiring process. “We try to be data-driven in all the decisions we make,” Seiter said. “We can’t go on a feeling.”GoogleIn May 2014, Google became one of the first Silicon Valley giants to release its diversity numbers. They weren’t good – at the time, the company’s workforce was just 30% female and 2% African-American. But the company had already taken steps to correct itself.In 2013, Google sent two of its engineers to Howard University, where over 90% of the student body is African-American, to teach computer science and help overhaul the school’s curriculum in the hopes of making Howard graduates more attractive to tech companies. Since then, Google has grown the program, expanding to five “historically black colleges and universities” (HBCUs) in 2014 and another two in 2015. Google employees teach computer science classes, hold office hours and help students prepare for technical interviews. This summer, 50 students from HBCUs will be interning at Google.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Google employees - Googlers - participating in a team-building exercise. Photograph: GoogleThat said, the Google-in-Residence program has had its share of growing pains. Chris Pratt, the first Googler-in-Residence at Howard, has since left the company, telling Bloomberg Businessweek earlier this year that the program’s impact on Google’s diversity problem remains small.Google, however, remains committed to the program. Chris Hocutt, a software engineer at Google, participated in the program as a student at Howard, and believes the program has valuable benefits for students at HBCUs, even if they don’t all end up at Google. “Students like my younger self are able to get a fantastic perspective on the work, skills, and process of snagging a technical job or even creating a startup,” Hocutt said via email.Google’s other diversity initiatives include a focus on recruiting at a wider range of schools, improving inclusivity and attracting more young women and minorities to tech. Google’s most recent diversity data, released in June 2015, suggests that Google’s efforts may be paying off, albeit slowly. The number of black and Hispanic employees on Google’s technical team increased by 39% – but black and Hispanic employees still represent just 2% and 3%, respectively, of the company’s overall technical team.ClefWhen B Byrne, the co-founder and CEO of Clef, an Oakland-based startup that provides two-factor authentication services, was ready to make his first hire in 2014, he realized he had no idea how to go about it. A lawyer he consulted provided him with a boilerplate employee handbook, which didn’t have much to say about diversity, and told him that he could write a more extensive handbook when the company was bigger. “All of us had the sense that we were really excited about the product we were building,” says Byrne. “But that in order to build the product, we also had to build a great company. And a great company had to morally do things differently from places we had worked for before.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   B Byrne (seated) with the Clef team in the company’s offices. Photograph: MKawanophotography/ClefSo Byrne hired a HR lawyer and a diversity consultant and spent hours researching and writing a set of policies for the kind of company he wanted to build. When he was done, he made the handbook public so other companies could learn from it. Today, Clef, which still has only seven employees (including Byrne), has a generous family leave policy, doesn’t negotiate salaries – on the grounds that “negotiation just sort of gives advantages to folks who have more privilege already” – and has completely eliminated “culture fit” as a factor in hiring decisions.“People [often] ask me the question, at what point should a company start focusing on this stuff?” Byrne says. “I always say I’ve never seen a company turn it around. I think you have to start from day one.”