TVOrange is the New Black (available on 17 June)Litchfield Penitentiary has a bad case of overcrowding – which is terrible news for the inmates (breakfast starts in the middle of the night, the loo queues are so long there’s a mystery shower pooper and there’s a tampon crisis). But it’s great news for fans, who get a whole batch of fresh faces that are as funny as ever. Taystee gets an important new job, Piper accidentally establishes a white supremacy movement after a rival panty gang starts up, and Alex and Lolly are super-paranoid about the paparazzi drones flying over the veg patch to catch a glimpse of celeb inmate Judy King. Happy Valley (available on 3 June)If you’ve managed to miss Sally Wainwright’s staggeringly tense and lingering drama starring Sally Lancashire as Catherine Cawood, a police officer in a rural West Yorkshire town, please log in and watch immediately. It’s six brilliant hours that will haunt you for months, if not years. Detectorists (available now)Mackenzie Crook ditched Hollywood and headed back to rural England to write and star in this wistful, joyous sitcom about the Danebury Metal Detecting Club, a blustering gang desperate to unearth ancient treasure. It’s been called “the sitcom Thomas Hardy would have written”.Lady Dynamite (available now) If you still haven’t given Maria Bamford’s strange meta-sitcom a try, get stuck in. While the subject – Bamford’s real-life mental breakdown – may not sound like prime territory for jokes, Stuart Heritage says that the world is a better place for it: Lady Dynamite isn’t for everyone, but “those who can somehow tap into this beautiful well of delirium, will be rewarded in spades”.Ali Wong – Baby Cobra (available now)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The subversive standup Ali Wong, who overturns every cliche about pregnant women in Baby Cobra. Photograph: Alex Crick/NetflixA brilliant standup set done by the subversive comic while seven months pregnant. Hadley Freeman called it “two fingers up at the expectations people have about every demographic she belongs to: Asian, woman, feminist and pregnant … and boy does she overturn every cliche about how pregnant women should behave, simulating on stage everything from crushing a man to death with her thighs while he’s giving her oral sex to enacting BDSM.”FilmFresh Dressed (available now) Pharrell Williams, Kanye West and Sean Combs are just some of the talking heads who help tell the story of the love affair between hip-hop and fashion in this revelatory documentary about New York in the 1970s, 80s and 90s. Titanic (available now)It’s been 20 years: isn’t it time to rewatch the 1997 weepie about the unsinkable Ship of Dreams – and see if Rose really did hog that raft at the end? Mystic Pizza (available now)Fun pizzeria-based rites of passage story from 1988, starring Julia Roberts in her breakout role. Blow Out (available now)In Brian De Palma’s masterful film from the 1980s, John Travolta plays a sound-effects expert who stumbles upon a conspiracy while recording sound for a low-budget horror flick in the woods outside Philadelphia. Harrowing, challenging and brilliant.It Happened One Night (available on 15 June)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sublime screwball comedy … Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable in It Happened One Night. Photograph: Allstar/COLUMBIA/Sportsphoto LtdFrank Capra’s fantastic screwball comedy was the first film ever to win the “big five” Oscars, way back in 1934. Claudette Colbert plays Ellie Andrews, the daughter of an overbearing millionaire who runs away to escape the pressures of socialite life. On a night bus to New York, she meets a charming newspaperman named Peter Warne (Clark Gable), who recognises her and tries to get the scoop about her life on the run. A corker that has absolutely stood the test of time. Guardians of the Galaxy (available on 20 June)Marvel finally mocks itself in this wacky, whip-smart and actually very funny space romp about a gang of intergalactic badasses who have to save the universe.The Diary of a Teenage Girl (available 30 June)An exceptional and brave coming-of-age tale about Minnie, an awkward 15-year-old in 1970s San Francisco. Bel Powley gives a star turn as the precocious teen, and Kristen Wiig is fantastically aloof as her bohemian mum.