Age: First detected last year.Appearance: It's a virus!Meaning? It's so tiny that you don't need to worry your pretty little head about what it looks like. If you want to know about the effects, though …Let's pretend I do. It causes stillbirths and birth defects in sheep, cattle and goats, as well as fever, diarrhoea and lower milk production in cows. So far 74 English farms have been affected, with the worst hit areas being East Sussex, Kent, Norfolk and Suffolk. The National Farmers Union calls the disease a "ticking time bomb".Is it only Britain that's affected? Au contraire. Cases have also been reported in Germany, Benelux, Italy and France. In some flocks up to half of all lambs have deformities such as hydrancephaly, where parts of the brain are replaced by liquid-filled sacs.I'm beginning to see why this isn't one of those picture-led articles. Where was this horrible disease first spotted? The west German town of Schmallenberg, previously known for its textiles. Its nickname is die Strumpfstadt, or the Sock Town.Good old Wikipedia. This sounds like one more reason to keep everything German out of Britain. I beg your pardon?I'm auditioning for a job on the Sun on Sunday. The virus is not spread by humans, as far as scientists can tell, or even farm animals. The culprit appears to be midges.German midges? Not exclusively.That sounds like a fudge. Whatever. The point is, there's not much point restricting animal movements, à la foot-and-mouth disease.So what can be done? Scientists are working on a vaccine, though this could take several years to develop. So far they have managed to isolate the virus and culture it in insect and hamster cells.Are humans in any danger? That is "unlikely", according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. However, it has advised health authorities to keep an eye on anyone in contact with infected animals.What terrible news for the rural economy. I don't know about that. This must be a great time to be a vet.Do say: "There goes the countryside."Don't say: "There goes the barbecue."