“It’s impossible for this show to tick all of the boxes in what everybody would want to see,” Looking star Jonathan Groff told the Daily Beast, before HBO’s first “gay show” launched its second season. “But the great thing about doing a gay television show is that the more it stays on the air, the more stories you can tell.”The sentiment is now sadly ironic: months following the interview, HBO cancelled the series due to poor ratings.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest From its launch in January 2014, Looking was weighed down by expectations it could never truly deliver on. Is HBO’s Looking the great gay TV series some of us have been waiting for?, read a headline when the show was first announced in 2013, summing up the pressure Looking’s creator, Weekend writer/director Andrew Haigh, had in making a series centered mostly on gay characters.As the first series to center on the lives of gay men since Showtime’s Queer as Folk, which concluded in 2005 after a five-season run, Looking was cause for celebration by a community that’s often shown the cold shoulder by major TV studios and Hollywood. But with that goodwill also came intense scrutiny. Starved for representation in mainstream media, gay audiences rightly wanted to see their experience reflected in the show. Looking ultimately didn’t deliver on that universal front – instead opting to focus on the specific journeys of a group of close gay friends in San Francisco. The first season started out unsteadily, with uneven characterizations and a rather torpid pace. It found its groove mid-season during an episode titled Looking at the Future, which devoted all of its time to tracking an eventful day between the show’s protagonist, video game designer Patrick (Groff) and his hairdresser love interest Richie. Suddenly, Looking felt alive and singular.Looking for love: why HBO's decision to cancel leaves a gap in gay culture By the time the second season concluded, which included the introduction of an HIV-positive character, Looking had begun to find its voice as a sexy, graceful and deftly moving series depicting a group of imperfect gay men slowly coming into their own.That voice will have its swansong in HBO’s upcoming feature-length special, Looking: the Movie, which the cable channel greenlit shortly after canceling the show. It’s too early to say if the film will tie up loose ends left by the show’s finale (will Patrick, returning to San Francisco for a wedding after moving to Colorado, end up with Richie?) to offer fans a definite conclusion. Regardless, the trailer looks stellar.“Sometimes you got to leave things behind to move forward,” Richie says to Patrick in the trailer, most likely conveying Haigh’s sentiments to the TV industry and Hollywood (his last film, 45 Years, was hugely acclaimed and earned Charlotte Rampling an Oscar nomination). Although Looking ended much too soon, hopefully the gap it left should encourage a diverse slate of gay-themed shows and films to emerge.Looking: the Movie airs on HBO 23 July.