After five years and six flats in London, I can only conclude that it’s illegal for new tenants to have a working bathroom sink. Either that or it’s personal, and departing tenants shove dead rabbits down there when they know I’m coming. I just moved, which means yet another blocked bathroom sink has come into my life. When I told my fiance I’d ordered something to unclog it he was pleased – until he realised it was for this column.“No,” he protested – he’s already sick of brushing his teeth in the kitchen – “we are not using your eco-green fairy dust nonsense. Can’t we just be normal people and get drain unclogger that actually works, the kind you can’t get on your skin? PLEASE?” We made a deal, that one or both of my environmentally-friendly, kinder-to-skin drain uncloggers would clear the blockage, or else he could use whatever fizzy, lava-based concoction he could find and I would make up for the delay by buying ice cream. As you can tell, we run a very grownup household.  Earth Enzymes drain opener. Photograph: PRAnd so began the duel. In my holsters, I had Earth Enzymes, a £9.95 bottle of sodium sesquicarbonate, bacterial mixtures, and proteolytic enzyme; and Enzymatic Drain Cleaning Sticks, a £5.99 pack of 12 bright blue sticks made of “powerful natural bacteria and enzymes”. My opponent had a bottle of “drain gel” which warns you to “wear suitable protective clothing and eye/face protection” (apparently we need hazmat suits) and to keep it away from “hands, face and children”. It’s full of the sorts of corrosive chemicals you probably wouldn’t see on Nigel’s Eco Store – such as sodium hydroxide, a corrosive alkali that removes congealed fats; triethyl phosphate, which in its pure form can be used as paint stripper; and sodium hypochlorite, also known as bleach, which destroys microbes in blocked pipes and was also used to disinfect wounds during the first world war. So how do they work?You dilute the Earth Enzymes powder with warm water and pour it down the blocked sink, drain or U-bend and, all things being well, it clears the blockage. Or you could pop an Enzymatic Drain Cleaning Stick down the plug and replace monthly as a preventative measure for blockages and smells. One pack of 12 should last a year. Online reviewers would have been cheering for me in the duel. Earth Enzymes users said it was “exceedingly effective in unblocking and cleaning out drains and also in removing foul odours”, but also admitted “you have to use it every week”, “it’s designed to work over time and won't clear a severe blockage”. Someone else claimed it’s “simply not very effective at unblocking waste pipes”.Enzymatic Drain Cleaning Stick customers were more enthusiastic: “The water is now draining a lot faster than it ever did before and I noticed the results within 24 hours”, and “they keep the drain clean and smelling nice”. But however well they work, I question the judgment of the user who said it would make a good Christmas stocking filler.Earth Enzymes – the minus points:It didn’t unclog my sink. That would be the main minus point. It doesn’t break down hair, which is a shame as I would guess hair is a huge part of what clogs a sink, especially where I live in east London, where beards appear to be mandatory. It will digest all the material caught up in hair, though.According to what I read, you would have to use it on a weekly basis for it to be really effective. A blocked drain is a problem. Most people want to solve problems with a single action, rather than a weekly chore.It’s a bit of a faff – you have to dilute the powder with water and stir it rather than simply tip it down the sink.It’s a “mild eye and skin irritant”. And the plus points:The sink did drain a little faster than before. I imagine another few doses would have improved the problem even further. It seems to have been made to be so environmentally friendly it could hold up under the scrutiny of the most highly critical environmentalist. It contains no petrochemicals, ammonia, caustic soda, or formaldehyde. It’s even got a “vegan” label.It’s biodegradable.The bottle and cap are recyclable.Even the manufacturing of the product was “made with 100% green energy”.The sink did smell less like a stagnant pond afterwards.Enzymatic Drain Cleaning Sticks – the minus points:I have every faith these would do a fine job on a light blockage. But for a severe blockage, the kind that causes a near-stagnant pool in your sink that needs a full 18 hours to drain by itself, the sticks were a little out of their depth. They didn’t unclog the sink. And the plus points:The smell disappeared within a day.It seems like a great preventative measure for sinks that tend to get backed up with gunk.In summation:While either of these uncloggers could probably clear light blockages and keep drains generally clean, neither worked the magic that I'd hoped for. In the end, my smug fiance poured his caustic cleaner of choice down our still-clogged sink and it’s worked beautifully ever since. Which means I have to pay the ice-cream forfeit.I’ll get Cherry Garcia. He hates Cherry Garcia.Interested in finding out more about how you can live better? Take a look at this month's Live Better Challenge here.The Live Better Challenge is funded by Unilever; its focus is sustainable living. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.