The Good FightThis spin-off from The Good Wife begins with Christine Baranski’s Diane Lockhart watching the inauguration of Donald Trump in silent horror. And so the scene is set for a taut legal drama that sucks corporate crime, police brutality and the Black Lives Matter movement into a very 2017 vortex of post-Trump liberal anxiety. Thursday, 9pm, More413 Reasons WhyA new series based on Jay Asher’s young adult fiction novel, this is an inventively bleak high-school drama in which 16-year-old Clay Jensen finds a package containing 13 cassette tapes. These, it emerges, itemise the circumstances leading up to his classmate Hannah’s suicide. From Friday, NetflixThe Idris Takeover      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dris is it: Idris Elba. Photograph: Vianney Le Caer/REX/ShutterstockIdris Elba takes BBC3 in hand, creating and curating a raft of programming that – from original drama to comedy to sport – reflects his interest in nurturing emerging talent. Expect everything from Scottish rap to wheelchair boxing. From Monday, BBC3Rio Ferdinand: Being Mum and DadSince he lost his wife to cancer in 2015, Rio Ferdinand has been dealing with his family’s tragedy by staying practical. In this film, he accepts that he and his kids need help dealing with the emotional fallout and goes looking for some. The results are hugely affecting. Tuesday, 9pm, BBC1Decline and FallIt’s hard to imagine that the casting meeting ahead of this new adaptation of Evelyn Waugh’s novel about a blithe, slightly buffoonish posh charmer took too long. And indeed, the likes of Danny Dyer and Jack O’Connell have found themselves overlooked in favour of Jack Whitehall, who is tasked with bringing Paul Pennyfeather to life. A job that he was clearly born to do. Friday, 9pm, BBC1MasterChef      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Masters of their domain: Gregg Wallace and John Torode. Photograph: BBC/Shine TVAnother batch of quavering amateur cooks place their burnt offerings before the pampered palates of Messrs Torode and Wallace. Wednesday, 8pm, BBC1Five Came BackIn the 1940s, five Oscar-winning directors – Frank Capra, John Ford, John Huston, George Stevens and William Wyler – put their careers on hold to join in the war effort. This superb three-parter explores their experiences, which included real combat trauma and controversy about the nature of the films they produced. From Friday, NetflixTickledOne of 2016’s oddest stories sees David Farrier get more than he bargained for in the world of competitive tickling. Funny meets sinister. From Tuesday, Amazon PrimeBrian Pern: A Tribute      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One to Thotch: Brian Pern. Photograph: BBCHe lived to make his Day of the Triffids opus and his see old band Thotch re-form. But a Segway crash finally killed Brian Pern. BBC4 plays the death of Simon Day’s spoof progger with a straight, rock-doc bat. It’s followed, magnificently, by a Brian Pern at the BBC clips package. Wednesday, 10pm, BBC4FortitudeWrapping up a frostily blood-spattered second season in the picturesque but benighted Arctic-Norwegian town. The people of Fortitude are turning vigilante and Dan is out for revenge. But is there something sinister still lurking in the town? Well, yeah. Thursday, 9pm, Sky Atlantic