According to the publicity blurb, 20-odd years ago Mick Jagger suggested to Martin Scorsese that they collaborate on a movie. It would be about the behind-the-scenes shadiness, hedonism and excess of the record industry. On paper, it seems strange that this plan took two decades to come to fruition. Surely if men like Jagger and Big Marty S stroll into your film studio with ambitious ideas about lifting the lid on the music biz in dramatic and stylised fashion, you’d listen, right? That’s what I thought. Ten minutes into Vinyl (Sunday, 2am & Monday 9pm, Sky Atlantic) HBO’s serialised drama of the idea – and around the point where the script throws together lines like “What… What is that sound?” “That’s rock’n’roll” – said studio saying: “Yeah all right, Mick; leave a note with my secretary” started to make sense.The opening scene sees record executive Richey Finestra (Bobby Cannavale) attempting to buy cocaine in seedy 1970s New York, before flashing back, forth, up and down to snatches of his life as an executive at his failing American Century record company. What follows includes dodgy book-keeping, private jets loaded with high-grade narcotics, and a TBH quite unexciting fall from sobriety, grace and the interest of this TV reviewer.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As someone who believes music started with a Korg synthesizer somewhere around 1987, a look at 70s New York could be a wildly fascinating education. This is the era when disco was changing musical history; when skinny glam rockers packed up a tourniquet and some tiny spandex slacks and headed for the bright lights of a city that was still scummy and atmospherically graffitied. Hip-hop was also excitingly in embryo. Vinyl misses all this. Instead, those two-and-a-bit words – rock’n’roll – are given a kind of holy reverence.I’ve looked at the data and I think I’ve identified what’s gone wrong. Those poor people at HBO have allowed Martin Scorsese and his executive producer Mick Jagger to take control. These are men who, for all their “global recognition” and “Academy Awards” and blah blah blah, have spent so long in tasteful Los Angeles restaurants while their wives sternly lock off the wine list and divert them instead towards the organic chia seed porridge, that they’ve lost all sense of perspective. Dim memories of better days seem heady and exciting to them. You and I both know that the indulgent dialogue in Vinyl about the hit of a snare, or the bit where Richey lurches round his shag-piled lounge slurring “DADDY’S DANCING! COME DANCE WITH DADDY” to a hitherto unseen tot are not the stuff gold discs are made of. Or that the story of chief sandwich fetcher Jamie Vine (Juno Temple), with her stifled A&R dreams and tragic office skivvying, has already been done to greater effect in Mad Men. But did anyone dare tell Mick and Marty?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Smooth… Bobby Cannavale and Olivia Wilde in VinylIt turns out there’s lots in Vinyl that’s been done better in Mad Men. Take the degradation of the poor bastards who happened to be born female before the Spice Girls started feminism. Or the clouds of cigarette smoke that hang over meetings; the endless expanses of tan, beige, buff and puce that apparently covered all surfaces in the 70s, including the protagonist’s large lumpy face. This face bears an eerie resemblance not only to Don Draper’s but also to that other New York icon, Sesame Street’s Mr Snuffleupagus. With its hooded eyelids, deep Johnnie Walker crags and a general air of belligerence, it’s the kind of face required for conveying that Things Were Different Back Then. Back then, Nivea for Men was an alien concept, music was boring and women knew their place. Namely, behind a modesty panel with thwarted looks on their faces, and the prospect of a quick but heavily medicated go with some bloke with a perm the only thing to look forward to. In some of the quickfire exposition patter that Richey is prone to, he smoothly claims he’s earned his right to be hated. I wouldn’t go that far, but if this is rock’n’roll I think I’ll give it a swerve. Pass the chia seeds.