It’s often the first thing someone finds out about you, and can shape any first opinions. But what if you have a name you hate, or one that simply doesn’t suit you? Not everyone is happy with their name, and sometimes even the person who gave them it has their reservations. In fact, according to a new Mumsnet survey, 18% of parents regret the name they chose for their child, although only 2% have actually changed it. Here, a group of parents reflect on whether they got it right. Sophie McCorry Day, 31, Kent: ‘I feel pangs of remorse for calling my son Tennessee – it’s a hefty name to live up to’Occasionally, as you might expect having named my child Tennessee, I feel pangs of remorse. I worry that, from his perspective, it will prove a hefty and tease-worthy moniker to live up to. And, also for any inverse snobbery from others at having called our child such an indulgent name. Then, there’s the abbreviation (Tena) that is perhaps inevitable based around a certain ladies’ incontinence product. The name was on our shortlist thanks to a belated honeymoon road trip across the US (NB: he wasn’t conceived there, no Brooklyn Beckham here) whereby we were beguiled by the inky tree-blanketed hills. Some interpretations suggest Tennessee means “place of deep rivers”, and it sounded poetic. We also admire the writing of the namesake author. Helen Martin, 38, Wales: ‘I don’t regret calling my son Bear, even though my in-laws weren’t keen’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Helen MartinI have no regrets about the baby names I picked. When I was pregnant we were living up in the US Santa Barbara mountains on an off-grid ranch. We were staying with a native American who told us about his friend Bear and we instantly loved the name. . For a couple of years my grandma would only refer to Bear as “the baby”. I’ve also had to explain quite often that he isn’t named after Bear Grylls.Jasmine Daze, from Norwich: ‘My parents changed my name because I didn’t suit it’My parents regretted what they called me – I was named Sophie Jasmine, but at nine months they (unofficially) swapped my first and middle names around. They looked at me and realised I wasn’t a Sophie. According to my dad, even as a baby I was outgoing and wanted attention, and they felt Jasmine (Jaz for short) was much more fitting. It was also a more unique name in the 1990s. I’d originally got my name because my dad wanted to call me Sophia – a name that my mum didn’t like – so they compromised on Sophie. My name now goes better with my surname: Jaz Daze has a nice ring to it. As our family surname was also made up, changed by deed poll to my dad’s stage name, my name has a unique history. If I were to have a child I would be willing to call them what they wanted, and whatever fitted them best. Magda, Midlands: ‘I called my son Scott – it seemed like a good idea at the time’I named my son Scott just before Neighbours had the big romance between Scott (Jason Donovan) and Charlene (Kylie Minogue). After that I was constantly asked if he was named after Jason Donovan’s character, but I have never even watched Neighbours. The worst part of it, though, was that the name became very popular because of the show.I realised the name is always associated with bad characters in films and TV too – such as gang members. When my son was a boy there was a teacher perception that he’d be someone to watch, just because he was called Scott. He proved them wrong, however, because he was always very good. I named him Scott because I come from a Scottish family living in England, and it seemed to be a good idea at the time. Sarah, 38, Surrey: ‘I hate shouting his name across a playground and cringe when I introduce him to people’Consumed by pregnancy hormones, I decided to call my son Rafferty. I had no particular attachment to the name before I was pregnant, but for some reason I tenaciously spent months convincing my husband this was the name for us. I regret it now, people think it’s his surname, no one can spell it, and when I introduce him to people they always ask me to repeat the name. Sometimes they respond, saying: “Oh, how unusual.” I hate shouting his name across a playground and inwardly cringe when I introduce him to people. I wish I had given him a classic name such as William or Benjamin. It doesn’t help that since his birth, a few C-list celebrities also have his name. We didn’t discus the choice with anyone before making the decision; I wish we had now. My husband has come round to it and thinks it really suits our son. Chris Weaver, 66, Germany: ‘We liked Eilidh but Germans would pronounce it eyelid’I have no regrets. My wife is Scottish, so we gave our sons traditional local names: Neil and Ian. These names are quite unusual in Germany, where we now live, but neither of our boys has had any problems at school, work or with friends here. Interestingly, we have recently become aware of a local German called Ian, and his family name is almost identical to ours (Weber, which means “Weaver” in English). Before we knew whether we were having a boy or girl, we did consider Scottish girls’ names. Our of our favourites was Eilidh (Scottish pronunciation “Aylish”), until we realised that most Germans would automatically pronounce the name “eyelid”. Tetra, 52, US: ‘I’ve told my daughter she can change her name, but so far she hasn’t’I regret the fact that my daughter complains about the spelling of her name. She’s called Madeleine (the French spelling) which is unusual in the US. I’ve reminded her she can choose another name and make it legal, but she’s opted not to. She was originally going to be named either Verity or Celia, which sounded fine with her surname but didn’t look right when written. So, we eventually chose Madeleine – completely different from the first two names, and it sounds lovely. Picking a baby name is a big deal. My elderly mother still tells of how her sister-in-law “stole” the name she’d intended for my younger sister 50 years ago.Hannah, 34, Glasgow: ‘I feel we’ve landed my daughter with a lifetime of correcting people’While I still love our daughter’s name, I do regret it slightly. As my husband is French, we needed a name that would work in both English and French. We settled on Cléo (pronounced Clay-o) which is also a nod to my Egyptian heritage. Unfortunately, we have since found that people constantly mishear it as Claire and when corrected still pronounce it as Cleo. Official documents almost never include the accent on the “e” from the forms I fill in, so her passport and nursery enrollment etc all have the English version of her name on them. It’s not a huge deal, but I can’t help but feel that we’ve landed her with a lifetime of correcting people. I briefly considered changing her name when she was a couple of months old but by then she had already “become” her name, and it didn’t seem right to change it. Nicola, 36, Glasgow: ‘My daughter’s called Astrid, but people mistake it for Asterix’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: NicolaWe called our daughter Astrid, which we still love but we hadn’t taken into account other people not being familiar with it. One of the midwives called her “Asterix” and her name is often misheard as Ashley and Ashton. When my husband phoned his mum after Astrid was born she thought he said Ashtray. We’ve also had to think hard to come up with name-based nicknames, although we’re quite pleased with Astridnaut. We picked her name originally because my husband is a fan of Pippi Longstocking books, written by Astrid Lindgren. Annalie Mendosa, London: ‘I wish I’d stuck to my guns and called my daughter Rae’I wanted to call my baby girl Rae 15 years ago but got a hugely negative reaction from colleagues and others who said things like, “it sounds like my middle-aged uncle”. I quite like the name we called her in the end, but wish I’d stuck to my guns. It is so hard not to be influenced by other people, but nowadays it would not seem odd at all to be called Rae as a girl. Has your child got an unusual name – or have you heard of a friend or relative who has given their baby one? Tell us about it in the comments below.