This will be a dreary, joyless, colourless weekend. For on Sunday, there will be no close encounters between Thandie Newton’s DCI Roz Huntley and a chainsaw-wielding forensics coordinator; no mysterious men clad in balaclavas; no body parts buried in the woods. Martin Compston has slipped out of DS Steve Arnott’s drip-dry suit and estuarine accent; Adrian Dunbar has exited Supt Hastings’ rather depressing corner office.In short, Line of Duty, Jed Mercurio’s immensely entertaining police drama, which in its fourth season has just enjoyed a triumphant run on BBC1, is over for the year. Meantime, ITV’s Broadchurch is receding into a distant memory, and fans of Happy Valley are coming to terms with the awful fact that screenwriter Sally Wainwright is resting the Yorkshire-set drama for at least 12 months while she takes up a Wellcome Trust fellowship.There is a vast array of smart television drama being made now, from the new Amazon adaptation of Neil Gaiman’s American Gods to Sky Atlantic’s Billions, a story about hedge-funders starring Damian Lewis. We are in a great age of TV storytelling, and perhaps have been ever since The Sopranos showed that it was possible to make a wildly enjoyable mafia drama that was also ambitious enough (and sufficiently respectful of its audience’s intelligence) to contain clever homages to the films of Roberto Rossellini.Despite the breadth and depth of stories presently being told on TV, though, the crime drama has never lessened its grip on the imagination; the BBC is especially attached to the genre, and one can see why, for it is an elastic form that in the hands of a great writer such as Ms Wainwright, and indeed of a great actor such as Sarah Lancashire (who plays Sgt Catherine Cawood in Happy Valley), can provide trenchant social and political observation.It is not necessarily social realism that attracts the viewer, however. The crime drama is a story form as old as Greek tragedy. The first whodunnit was Sophocles’s Oedipus the King, in which the king of Thebes, Oedipus, sets out to discover the cause of a plague that is ravaging his people. He follows clues, cross-examines witnesses and rakes through evidence. He finds, in the end, that he himself is guilty of killing his father and marrying his mother.Modern crime dramas may not look much like the plays the Athenians watched, even when deliberately patterned on them. David Simon, creator of The Wire, described it as “Greek tragedy for the new millennium” in which doomed and fated protagonists still confront a rigged game; only this time “it’s the police department, or the drug economy, or the political structures, or the school administration, or the macroeconomic forces that are throwing the lightning bolts”. (On screen, he had Clay Davis address the press outside his trial while holding a conspicuous copy of Prometheus Bound – by “A-silly-us”, the crooked state senator explained.)But such shows do offer stories that exist within the rules of a genre, in which certain audience expectations will be met, loose ends tied, resolutions offered; and they do allow an outlet for our pity and fear. In an age of political turbulence and uncertainty, when one can only hope that calm lies around the corner, it is no wonder that so many turn to the comforts of crime.