Malorie Blackman, Philip Pullman and Michael Holroyd are among the writers calling on the new secretary of state for culture, Karen Bradley, to recognise the “crisis” the public library service is going through and to “set a new course after years of decline”.Libraries campaigner and award-winning children’s author Alan Gibbons has collected more than 300 signatories for an open letter to Bradley, including some of the UK’s top writers, from Michael Rosen to Jackie Kay, and from Frank Cottrell Boyce to Darren Shan. Bradley was appointed secretary of state for culture, media and sport in July, when she said that the sectors were “all areas which help to make life richer, drive the economy and promote the UK around the world”, and that she was “committed to making sure these sectors continue to thrive”.Gibbons’s letter, however, states that since 2010, 343 libraries have closed, opening hours have been cut, and 8,000 paid and trained library staff have been lost. According to the writers, there has been a 93% increase in the use of library volunteers over the past six years, with budgets, education programmes and specialist services such as mobile libraries also slashed.“Public libraries, museums and galleries are vital social and cultural resources at the heart of our communities. They give access to reading, literacy, information technology, history, art, information and enjoyment. But they are in crisis,” say the writers, who also include Geraldine McCaughrean, Cathy Cassidy, Philip Ardagh and Beverley Naidoo, as well as librarians, teachers and trade unionists.“We call upon you, as secretary of state for culture, media and sport to recognise this crisis and set a new course after years of decline.”Wyre and Preston North MP Ben Wallace has also written to Bradley after he was contacted by what he said were a “number of concerned residents” over Lancashire county council’s plans to close more than 20 local libraries. “Like residents I feel very angry about the county council’s actions. I have written to the secretary of state for culture, media and sport, urging the minister to investigate the county council’s position as the statutory provider of library services as a matter of urgency,” said Wallace. “I am trying as hard as I can to persuade the minister to make the county council stop their plans.”Campaigners, including library lovers and trade unionists, are also preparing to march in protest at cuts to libraries on 5 November, starting at the British Library and ending with a rally outside the House of Commons, and are calling on the public to join them. The demonstration is backed by Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn.Libraries: the inside story – books podcast “We stand at the brink of a precipice looking down at the brutal cuts and closures of our libraries, museums and galleries,” said Unison branch secretary for Barnet John Burgess. “Grassroots campaigns across the country are fighting heroic battles to save our bastions of our rich and cultural heritage. I am proud to be part of this grassroots initiative to bring together all of the campaigns in order that our voices can be heard loud and clear outside the House of Commons on Saturday 5 November. Join us, bring family, friends, placards.” “Libraries are the second most popular public service after the NHS,” added Gibbons. “They offer education, inspiration and access to knowledge, the foundations of democracy. Sadly, they are under attack from government cuts as never before. It is time to stand up for libraries.”A Department for Culture, Media and Sport spokesman insisted that libraries remain “important to communities, not only as places to borrow books but as spaces where people can access a wide variety of information and services”.“That’s why local authorities will have almost £200 billion to spend on local services, including libraries, over the lifetime of this parliament,” the spokesman said. “The Libraries Taskforce is to publish a new vision for public libraries that will look at ways in which the libraries sector can be improved further.”