It sounds like the plot of an animal horror B movie: a gigantic plague of flesh-eating “crazy ants” from Argentina invades the city of Birmingham. High on electricity and engorged with salmonella, the psycho killers attack livestock and gnaw through wires to causes fires in overpopulated towerblocks. They. Are. Coming. For. You.So – more or less – go recent news reports of the latest UK wildlife summer scare story (TM), following an alert issued by Basis Prompt, a pest controllers registry, that tropical ants are invading the country. Before you batten down the hatches though, enter Professor Adam Hart of the University of Gloucestershire, who has kept some of these insects in his lab, with the facts about the longhorn crazy ant (Paratrechina longicornis) and the Argentinian ant (Linepithema humile), a species that has actually been recorded in Britain for some years.First, are they really getting leathered on electricity? “Tropical ants are attracted to warm crevices and our electrical circuits are nice and warm,” explains Hart. “But they can cause a short circuit if they get in the wire.”Will they eat our animals? “No,” he says. “They prey on tiny insects but they’re not bringing down, say, cattle.”Worries over disease are also misplaced. The scientific community has known that a similar species, the pharaoh ant, can carry bacteria for more than 40 years – and so far no one in Britain has died as a result. Anyway, says Hart, your hands have probably carried the same types of bacteria at some point.And what’s so “crazy” about this new one? Quite simply, they run around a bit erratically. So less Patrick Bateman, more standard invertebrate behaviour. Although reports exaggerate the truth, Hart says we should remain vigilant in keeping an eye out for invasive species. The Harlequin ladybird, for example, is responsible for the decline of seven native species of ladybird. But the damage is more likely to be done to other species, not to humans – which isn’t quite such a hair-raising tale as Revenge Of The Killer Ants.