BarracudaBBC3Looking for a sun-dappled respite from winter? This Aussie drama – about an aspiring swimmer’s attempts to make it to the top – should do the trick. Expect a complex tale of pride, obsession and gay romance. Bonzer!Strictly Come Dancing       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Will Danny and Oti win the Strictly grand final? Photograph: BBC/Guy Levy6.40pm, BBC1With Ed Balls’s ballroom antics now but a memory, Strictly gets down to business with the grand final. The safe money’s on former Hollyoaks man Danny Mac.Bowie, Prince and Music Legends We Lost in 2016 10pm, Sky ArtsAt the end of an annus horribilis for musician deaths, here’s a tribute to some of those who went off to join the big supergroup in the sky, from the Thin White Duke to Leonard Cohen.Sports Personality of the Year6.40pm, BBC1Clare Balding, Gary Lineker and Gabby Logan host the annual celebration of British sport. Andy Murray is the bookie’s favourite for the main prize.The Apprentice9pm, BBC1Sir Alan decides which of the posturing wannabe entrepreneurs will become his new business partner.Humans 9pm, Channel 4Revenge and rebellion are in the air as the creepy robot saga that isn’t Westworld ends series two.John Simpson: 50 Years on the Frontline – Panorama7.30pm, BBC1The veteran broadcaster recalls a half-century of reporting, from the fall of the Berlin Wall to Iraq and Afghanistan.Would I Lie To You? At Christmas 8.30pm, BBC1Festive deceit from Mack and Mitchell, aided by Richard Osman and Sara Pascoe. Truthfully, it’s the best panel show on telly.Last Tango in Halifax9pm, BBC1After a near two-year break from our screens, Sally Wainwright’s warm, well-observed family saga returns for a pair of Christmas specials. Continues Tuesday 20th.MasterChef: The Professionals 8pm, BBC2The toughest and best Masterchef enters the final week of its current series, with contenders facing a daunting cook-off at culinary event The Chef’s Table. Hilda Ogden’s Last Ta-Ra: A Tribute to Jean Alexander 8pm, ITVA celebration of one of Coronation Street’s most beloved actors, who died in October aged 90.Insert Name Here: Christmas Special 10pm, BBC2Sue Perkins chairs the wacky quiz show, with Richard Osman and Josh Widdicombe on team captain duties. Silly, semi-interesting and occasionally laugh-out-loud funny stuff.Quarry9pm, Sky Atlantic This 70s-set thriller might just be your new antihero fix. Logan Marshall-Green stars as a Vietnam vet who returns to the US and is immediately caught up in a network of killing and corruption.Close to the Enemy9pm, BBC2Conclusion of Stephen Poliakoff’s drama, set amid the political turbulence of post-second world war London.The World’s Most Expensive Toys9pm, Channel 4Diamond-encrusted rocking horses and five-figure dolls’ houses: just two of the items your kids may start demanding after watching this documentary on posh gifts.The Last Leg Christmas Special9pm, Channel 4Grayson Perry joins messrs Hills, Brooker and Widdicombe to run the rule over 2016. Can anyone find something nice to say about it? No, probably not.Stella Christmas Special  9pm, Sky1It’s a turbulent Christmas in Pontyberry as Ruth “Gavin and Stacey” Jones’s gentle comedy returns for a festive special. Yonderland Christmas 6.30pm, Sky1The annual Thanktival celebrations are upended by a ravenous monster as the joyously daft fantasy comedy gets festive while not forgetting the funny. Even better, Alison Steadman turns up.We’re Going on a Bear Hunt7.30pm, Channel 4More charming family fare as Michael Rosen’s book gets the Snowman treatment, with Olivia Colman, Mark Williams and Pam Ferris among those providing the voice work.Gogglesprogs Christmas Special      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kid critics … Molly and William the Gogglesprogs. Photograph: Jude Edginton/Channel 48pm, Channel 4Kid critics cast their eye over festive TV in what is fast becoming the best Gogglebox. The original version is on Christmas Day, 9pm.Alan Bennett’s Diaries8pm, BBC2The acid-tongued playwright is profiled in a new doc, followed by an airing of The Lady In The Van.Grantchester Christmas Special Christmas Eve, 9pm, ITV Perpetual telly fixture James Norton returns to investigate a particularly unsavoury case.The Great Christmas Bake Off4.45pm, BBC1The final spoon lick of BBC Bake Off before Channel 4 whisks away the format and makes Alex Zane the host or something. This two-parter sees Mel, Sue, Mary and Paul welcome back past bakers.Doctor Who: The Return of Doctor Mysterio 5.45pm, BBC1Well it wouldn’t be Christmas without it, would it? The Doctor teams up with Matt Lucas’s affable human Nardole for a special episode high on superhero references.The Last Dragonslayer 5.45pm, Sky1 Sky takes on the Doctor Who Time Lord timeslot with its own big-budget drama, about an orphaned teenager who finds she has a magical destiny. More than a hint of Pratchett about this, which is no bad thing.Call the Midwife       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Midwives on tour! Photograph: Coco Van Oppens/Mike Hogan8pm, BBC1Midwives on tour! The sisters of Nonnatus House head to the Eastern Cape of South Africa to help a local clinic threatened with closure. Tears nigh-on guaranteed.Travel Man: 48 Hours in Florence 8pm, Channel 4Doyen of droll Richard Ayoade is joined by Pitch Perfect’s Rebel Wilson for a continental Christmas in the Italian city.Maigret’s Dead Man 9pm, ITVCan Rowan Atkinson’s take on the Parisian detective achieve Downton amounts of eyeballs for ITV? This second special episode sees him investigate the discovery of a mutilated corpse. Ho ho ho.Revolting Rhymes 6.30pm, BBC1Roald Dahl’s pungent poems are brought to animated life, voiced by a stellar array of acting talent including Dominic West and Gemma Chan.Royal Institution Christmas Lectures 2016 8pm, BBC4Eaten too much choc? Watched too many Xmas specials? Feel better about yourself instantly by taking in chemist Saiful Islam’s series of talks on energy creation.The Witness for the Prosecution 9pm, BBC1 As is often the case in Agatha Christie yarns, a wealthy widow has been murdered. Can Toby Jones’s penniless solicitor get to the truth in this two-part drama?The Entire Universe 9.30pm, BBC2Pop-rave pioneer Professor Brian Cox hooks up with Noel Fielding and Eric Idle and achieves perfect synthesis of science and songcraft in this comedy musical about the birth of the universe.Outnumbered10pm, BBC1Unwind after your stressful family Christmas by enjoying the similarly fraught festivities of the Brockmans, now older but in no way wiser.The Real Marigold on Tour 9pm, BBC2A quartet of famous pensioners – Bobby George, Miriam Margolyes, Rosemary Shrager and Wayne Sleep – head to Florida in search of interesting ways to spend their retirement. Concludes Friday, with a trip to Japan.Inside No 9 – The Devil at Christmas10pm, BBC2Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith’s horror anthology adds to the season of bad will, with a story of a demon ruining a family Christmas.Robot Wars: Battle of the Stars 8pm, BBC2The daft, addictive gameshow offers celebs, including Scott Mills and the Brownlee brothers, the chance to have a go on the joystick.James May: The Christmas Reassembler 9pm, BBC4Back from his Grand Tour, May takes things apart and struggles to put them back together in a manner reminiscent of Alan Partridge’s hotel trouser press.Jonathan Creek      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Putting Satan back in the box … Jonathan Creek. Photograph: BBC/Mark Mainz9pm, BBCA demonic mystery is putting a serious dampener on the holiday season. Fortunately, Alan Davies’s detective is on hand to put Satan back in his box.Pop Quiz: the Comeback 9.30pm, BBC4Ukip’s foremost calypsonian Mike Read caps a triumphant year by helming a period-themed revival of the self-explanatory 80s staple.To Walk Invisible       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Brontë sisters in To Walk Invisible. Photograph: Gary Moyes/BBC9pm, BBC1More Sally Wainwright, this time penning a lavish period drama exploring the extraordinary lives of the Brontë sisters.Charlie Brooker’s 2016 Wipe9pm, BBC2Average years drive Brooker to apoplexy and beyond. Goodness only knows what his annual acerbic roundup will make of the dizzying, almost infernal car-wreck of 2016.Delicious 9pm, Sky1Juicy relationship drama with Emilia Fox and Dawn French starring as love rivals guarding secrets and butting heads over the irresistible Iain Glen.2016 a Year in the Life of a Year10pm, BBC4Brian Pern creator Rhys Thomas re-edits the cultural and national events of 2016 for comic effect. Worth a try, right?Peter Pan Goes Wrong 6.20pm, BBC1Magnificently disastrous am-dram as adapted from the hugely successful West End play. An admirably game David Suchet is sucked into the carnage.Peter Cook & Dudley Moore: The Missing Sketches  8pm, Channel 4Back in the day, the BBC thought nothing of taping over classic sketches by beloved comics. Here, Richard Ayoade, Barry Humphries and Josie Lawrence revisit a few that got away.Jools’ Annual Hootenanny 11.20pm, BBC2 Jools’ NYE beano returns, with Chaka Khan and Christine and the Queens among those submitting to the boogie-woogie.Sherlock8.30pm, BBC1It wouldn’t be New Year’s Day without a case for Sherls and Watson. The first in a new series of adventures sees them investigate a strange act of vandalism. UncleBBC3Nick Helm’s amiable manchild returns for another series of puerile yet charming sitcommery.Silent Witness9pm, BBC1A severed finger sets off an investigation into people-smuggling as the long-running crime drama returns. First Dates Hotel10pm, Channel 4In an admirably straightforward solution to romantic yearning, Channel 4 sticks a bunch of singletons in a fancy hotel and lets nature take its course.