It is easy to see why Tony Penrose entitled his mother’s biography The Lives of Lee Miller (published in 1998). She was a model, photographer, protege, lover and muse of Man Ray, a war correspondent and a gourmet cook. She was also a terrible mother, an alcoholic and depressive.Since her death in 1977, Tony has been attempting to piece together a fuller account of her life. “The Lee I discovered was very different from the one I had been embattled with for so many years,” he writes in the postscript to his biography. “I am left with the profound regret that I did not know her better.” Lee wasn’t much of a mum during her lifetime but she sure as hell has given me plenty to do since When he says: “She was way, way beyond difficult. I mean, God, was she impossible,” it is clear that Tony, at 68, is still processing this incredibly difficult relationship – literally so in the case of the 60,000 negatives and prints he discovered in the attic of their home, Farley Farm House in East Sussex. The house is now a museum and archive dedicated to Miller’s work and that of her husband, the English surrealist painter Roland Penrose, and their private collection of works by their friends Joan Miró, Pablo Picasso, Max Ernst and many others.Tony takes me to his office at the top of the house – winding past his parents’ paintings and photographs that crowd the walls – and he sits at his desk, arms folded. He is thoughtful, genial and highly analytical, presumably because his survival around his mother demanded it. “Lee wasn’t much of a mum during her lifetime but she sure as hell has given me plenty to do since,” he says. “She’s left me this amazing time capsule. It enables me to visit key moments in history and the work of important artists.” If it weren’t for that discovery in the attic, he says, he would have remained a dairy farmer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony Penrose at his desk at Farley Farm House surrounded by images of his mother. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianWhen she was alive, Miller successfully convinced everyone that she hadn’t done anything worth talking about. Tony says that when anyone asked her about her time as a war correspondent for Vogue magazine, she would say: “Oh, I didn’t do much, it wasn’t of any importance and it’s all been destroyed since.” She would instead talk about Picasso, Man Ray or Paris in the 30s.Supposedly, Miller was nearly run over by a car in Manhattan and was pulled away by Condé Nast, who then put her on the cover of Vogue when she was 19. She became a supermodel overnight, across America. But she grew bored with being photographed and wanted to be on the other side of the lens, so she went to Paris in search of Man Ray and became his apprentice, lover and muse.Miller met Tony’s father, Roland Penrose, at a fancy dress party in 1937 in Paris and it was love at first sight for Roland. After they married, Miller reinvented herself as a photojournalist and a war correspondent.An exhibition of her war photography focusing on the contribution of women to the war effort, at the Imperial War Museum in London, shows the originality and breadth of her work, from her beautiful, often surrealistic Vogue fashion shoots and London during the blitz to the liberation of France and the horrors of Dachau and Buchenwald concentration camps. Miller destroyed some of her Dachau negatives because she didn’t want anyone to have to see what she had seen, but, says Tony, she wanted to leave enough so that there was no doubt about what had happened.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony Penrose in front of a photograph of his mother in Hitler’s bath, taken in 1945, and currently on show at Lee Miller: A Woman’s War at the Imperial War Museum, London. Photograph: Ray Tang/Rex ShutterstockWhen Miller came back from the war, she was bitterly disillusioned, and wrote to Roland from Paris: “Peace with a world of crooks who have no honour, no integrity and no shame is not what anyone fought for.”Tony is sure that his mother must have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, not only because of her wartime experiences, but also because of what happened to her in childhood. Miller was raped when she was seven, and as a young teenager fell in love with a boy who drowned in a boating accident right in front of her. “It became a pattern that people that she loved died,” says Tony. “It wasn’t surprising that she distanced herself from me – she probably thought her affection for me might be lethal.”Tellingly, Tony’s first memories are of his nanny, not his parents. “My nanny was very important to me because my mum was often travelling. Also she just did not have a normal maternal instinct so she very wisely handed me over to Patsy, who became my de facto mum. I think if it had been left to Lee, she would have probably forgotten about me!” he laughs awkwardly. “I don’t mean she was unkind or uncaring, it was just that she would have been so distracted, busy getting on with whatever else.“My parents were incredibly inclusive, they just had none of the usual social boundaries. Patsy became a member of the family. It was very open and friendly, and it was highly unusual given how class-ridden England was in those days.”Tony tends to use his parents’ forenames when he talks about them: “Lee and Roland would appear at weekends and I would be a bit bewildered because they’d bring a whole bunch of people who mostly spoke a load of foreign languages and actually what I didn’t realise was that they were some of the most important artists of the time.” She didn’t have to hit anyone, she could do all the damage she wanted with words When Tony was about 14 he had to stand up in his French class and say where he’d been in the Easter holidays. So he said he’d been to Nice to visit Picasso. There was an incredulous “What?!” But doesn’t everyone else do that, he thought? It was the moment, he says, that he had to accept that this wasn’t normal behaviour.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Memorabilia from Lee Miller’s time as a war correspondant during the second world war. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianTony’s parents were in their 40s when he was born – his mother had been told by doctors that she could never have children. His birth sent Miller into postnatal depression and this, combined with her heavy drinking, meant that from the age of four or five, Tony was acutely aware of his mother’s mood. “There were times when I just knew it was a bad idea to be around her – she could be verbally cruel. She didn’t have to hit anyone. She could do all the damage she wanted with words.“When Lee was in the kitchen, that’s when I felt the safest because she had plenty to occupy herself with. She was at her most approachable and her friendliest and I knew I could be around her without my head being bitten off. She was wonderfully focused and she would try to involve me.”One of the artists who visited Farley Farm who made a deep impression on young Tony was Miró, so much so that he has just written a children’s book about him, which is full of Miró’s vibrant drawings and tales of Tony’s encounters with him. “Miró was like a monk – he had that stillness of a deeply spiritual person. I just wanted to be around him. But when he started to draw something, he had this incredible exuberance – he was totally absorbed.”Clearly, despite everything, Tony has developed a respect for his mother and there is a kind of pride too when he says: “She was outspoken, and there’s a lot to be said for that. It didn’t always go down too well with the Brits. Some people would find her coarse and abrasive, but she didn’t give a damn. If it was on her mind, it was in her mouth.”Of all the incredible things that Miller did in her life, says Tony, by far the greatest achievement was self-recovery from alcohol abuse. Pointing out a happier photograph of her and his father, he says: “In this moment, she’s made it, she’s recovered her life, she’s reinvented herself as a gourmet cook, she’s got friends, there is creative excitement and he’s so proud and he’s so loving.”But there was to be no such happy ending between Miller and her son. When he distractedly says at one point, leafing through some photos, “There’s a lot of trauma there” it’s not exactly clear who he is referring to – his mother or himself.• Lee Miller: A Woman’s War is at the Imperial War Museum in London until 24 April, iwm.org.uk. Lee Miller: A Woman’s War by Hilary Roberts (Thames & Hudson, £29.95). To order a copy for £23.96, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.Miró’s Magic Animals by Antony Penrose (Thames & Hudson), £9.95