Bones are snapped liberally in Hardcore Henry. Snapped, broken and crunched. There is shooting, stabbing and cocaine, there are strippers and dildos, and rare is the wall that doesn’t end up blood-splattered. Above all, the whole thing looks like a videogame. It’s safe to say it knows its demographic.Filmed in Moscow by Russian director Ilya Naishuller, Hardcore Henry follows a cyborg on a guns-blazing mission to rescue his wife, and is shot almost entirely in first-person perspective: we see everything through his eyes. Naishuller was already a budding film-maker when, some years back, he bought an early GoPro for a snowboarding trip. From there he started experimenting with the wearable action cameras, in 2011 deploying them for The Stampede, a point of view (POV) music video he directed for his punk band Biting Elbows. Shot for just $500, it got six million YouTube views and a lot of attention. But its success was dwarfed by its follow-up.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 2013’s Bad Motherfucker was bigger, nastier and slicker, featuring breasts, swearing, and a German shepherd hurled through a window. It received 32 million views, Twitter props from Darren Aronofsky (“So well done”) and Samuel L Jackson (“This is some Buck Wild shit!”), and almost immediately Hollywood agents were flying Naishuller to meetings in Los Angeles. There was some serious wining and dining, but the 30-year-old, who was already prepping a conventionally shot cold war thriller, remained steady. “I’ve read plenty of books on Hollywood,” he says, “so I wasn’t fooled by all that ‘Whaddya want kid, you’re the future, this is great!’”He did listen, though, to Russian director Timur Bekmambetov (Night Watch, Wanted), who suggested that Naishuller further explore what he’d been doing with the music videos. Naishuller was concerned that 90 minutes of POV action would be a stretch. “But Timur said, ‘Don’t you want to see a POV action movie in a theatre?’ Which I did. And he said, ‘You should really make one.’ And I thought if I did it correctly, it would be a mind-blowing experience. It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to play around in a very fresh field.”For the most part during Hardcore Henry we don’t see the protagonist’s face and we don’t hear his voice. Immersion is the intent, even if what occurs on screen is hardly what most of us would call relatable. To make it work, Naishuller had 13 different stuntmen and camera operators (and sometimes himself) taking turns as Henry, each wearing mask-like GoPro helmet rigs utilising magnetic stabilisation techniques. A good 20 GoPros were destroyed during filming, he says, many of them due to misplaced kicks to the stuntmen’s heads. None of the actors got seriously hurt, but he concedes there were a fair amount of bruises and, in some cases, stitches.Hardcore review – plotless, characterisation-free cinema du Xbox Naishuller is a big gamer, and says first-person shooters were a huge influence, but is almost at pains to stress that Hardcore Henry is a proper film. “It was never the idea to make a film for videogamers,” he says. “I purposely avoided a lot of the tropes that one would expect from a videogame film. Someone suggested we could have a health bar on screen, but I was like, ‘People are gonna know the film-makers like videogames, you don’t need to give them a heads up.’ The fact that it looks like a videogame is because the most time we see this perspective is in videogames.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The GoPro camera rig that was used to get the POV effect. Photograph: Mike Windle/GettyThat may be true, but the film is rife with familiar videogame staples – not just the way we see Henry’s arms flailing about, but the way he throws things, the way he shoots guns and the fact that he’s accompanied by supporting characters constantly shouting exposition and instruction at him. “Well here’s the thing,” Naishuller counters. “Hopefully none of us are going around picking up weapons and stabbing people. But if we were to do that, that’s what it looks like.”The film caused a stir at festivals, and recently Naishuller has been courted for a few big films featuring POV action, including the opening of Grimsby. He couldn’t do that because he was working on Hardcore Henry, but says studios are certainly experimenting with more POV. “If Hardcore Henry does well then people are gonna be more open to it. And if it makes money, I guess people will jump on that bandwagon. And someone will make a piece of shit, and someone might make something great, and I honestly wish them the best of luck because I’d love to go to a theatre and see how they handle the same problems that I had to handle.”Hardcore Henry is very much an exercise in excess, with little nuance and even less characterisation, and Naishuller’s initial instinct might have been right: 90 minutes of this is a lot to handle. But there is often joy in that POV action. Like Naishuller, many of today’s film-makers grew up playing videogames, meaning that their influence on cinema is only likely to grow and grow. Hardcore Henry, the bluntest manifestation yet of this cross-pollination, exists, really, because it can. But it’s a bold experiment, likely to inspire something great.Hardcore Henry is in UK cinemas from Friday 8 April      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hardcore Henry director Ilya Naishuller. Photograph: Maarten de Boer/Getty