Shetland9pm, BBC1The police procedural takes another twist as Perez and Tosh head to Glasgow, trying to discover why the now late Michael Maguire – real surname Thompson and the victim of a professional hit – was on Shetland and in a witness-protection programme. Turns out the authorities in the city may have a leak. The trip also brings Perez face to face with gangster Arthur McCall, who may hold the key to what’s happening. Taggart before it got rubbish meets Scandi-noir, and thus compelling stuff. Jonathan WrightEarth’s Greatest Spectacles9pm, BBC2Autumn in New England is the kind of vibrant visual display you see on a screensaver but seldom in real life. This part of the USA is renowned for its transition from summer to autumn, in which the densely wooded landscape dramatically changes colour. There are holidays geared to observing it. This programme takes things a little further, to explore in greater detail the habitat that creates the charming scenery. Moose, chipmunks and good old humans, it seems, all have had an influence on bringing it about. John RobinsonCelebrity Big Brother: Live Final9pm, Channel 5As well as being CBB’s longest run to date, series 17 has arguably been its weirdest: “reality star” Tiffany Pollard has shrieked her way through 99% of human interaction, there have been meltdowns and mix-ups of the highest order, and an entire episode dedicated to discussing a pair of dirty knickers. The ridiculousness comes to an end tonight as Emma Willis reveals the winner, although given that this series has provoked more walkouts than an experimental horror film at Cannes, perhaps there won’t be any housemates left to claim the title. Hannah J DaviesSpin9pm, More4It’s a battle between open-necked shirts in tonight’s finale: master v pupil, Simon v Ludovic. When microphones are discovered, and one of Anne’s team is revealed to have been spying on Marjorie, Simon knows exactly how Ludo will play it: announce the revelation on the day of the debate, to disastrous effect. That, though, would be to reckon without Simon’s dark arts. He is misunderstood by his daughter, and Valentine is still in hospital, but Simon’s clearly got some game left in him. JRReturn To The Wild: The Chris McCandless Story9pm, PBS AmericaIn 1992, a 24 year-old man from a well-to-do background decided to go hiking in the Alaskan wilderness. A few months later, the 30kg that remained of him was discovered in a converted bus he’d used as a shelter. McCandless’s mysterious story inspired a book and, later, the film Into The Wild. This documentary retraces his steps and, using his own correspondence and fresh interviews, tries to get to the truth about why he invited such a grim fate for himself with his actions. David StubbsThe Last Leg Goes Down Under10pm, Channel 4Second of two Antipodean specials featuring Josh Widdicombe and Alex Brooker trailing after Adam Hills in the dry, dry heat as they journey 3,000 miles across his Australian homeland. From Darwin to Sydney they’re jammed into an orange camper van with the word “DICK” painted all over it, and it’s like Top Gear if it had used its powers for good. They hunt wild boar, go mining for opals and – at one point – go fully Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, all the while managing not to punch a producer. Ten out of 10 television. Julia RaesideThe Most Dangerous Band In The World: The Story Of Guns N’ Roses10pm, BBC4Guns N’ Roses provided a shot in the arm to a jaded LA metal scene in the mid-to-late 80s (in more ways than one), as Jon Brewer’s superbly thrilling profile shows. And while this doesn’t gloss over the lows (Slash died for eight minutes after a drug overdose? “No big deal,” shrugs bassist Duff McKagan, “I’ve died three times”), it also celebrates the highs, courtesy of rare early footage and never-before-heard interviews. Ali CatterallFilm choiceTomorrowland: A World Beyond (Brad Bird, 2015) 4pm, 8pm, Sky Movies PremiereAnother brilliant, inventive fantasy from The Incredibles director Brad Bird. This has rebellious kid Casey Newton (Britt Robertson) taking a trip to a parallel world where scientists are creating a dream city with nightmare side-effects. George Clooney as disillusioned inventor Frank Walker is her guide. It’s a fantastic retro-futuristic adventure that finds time to consider questions such as the future of humanity. Paul HowlettBlack Sheep (Jonathan King, 2006) 1.05am, BBC2New Zealand farmer Henry Oldfield (Nathan Meister) is the butt of many a joke because of his sheep phobia, but he has the last laugh, sort of, when his brother’s genetic experiment turns his flock into a horde of people-eaters. King plays it for all the humour the wacky story deserves, and the impressively gory special effects are supplied by Peter Jackson’s Weta Workshop. PHToday’s best live sportPremiership Rugby Union: Bath v Gloucester Two West Country sides face off. 7pm, BT Sport 1Championship Football: Brighton & Hove Albion v Brentford Brighton look to continue their promotion charge. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Rugby League: Wigan Warriors v Catalan Dragons Super League clash between the sides. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2PGA Tour Golf: Phoenix Open The charmingly titled Waste Management Phoenix Open enters its second day. 8pm, Sky Sports 4