What was the last piece of music you bought?Bruckner 9 with Simon Rattle and the Berlin Philharmonic with the elusive fourth movement included. I can’t stop listening to it! Mahler wrote his second symphony, The Resurrection, at the same time, beginning his symphonic journey while Bruckner, in 1896, was finishing his. It strikes me as a very modern piece with some very contemporary melodies.What’s your musical guilty pleasure?Elvis Presley’s 1968 Comeback Special - Black leather concert. I believe Jim Morrison was Elvis’s reincarnation.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  If you found yourself with six months free to learn a new instrument, what would you choose?The organ. The king of instruments. I’d love to know what all the stops do. Is applauding between movements acceptable?Yes. I love an audience’s gut reaction, provided it’s not about clapping too early and ostentatiously. The best audience I could ask for is at the BBC Proms. Apart from the hearty welcoming cheering, they discipline each other’s applause and that’s very sweet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Mesmerising’: Stuart Skelton as Peter Grimes in English National Opera’s production of Britten’s opera. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianWhat’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?Peter Grimes at ENO directed by David Alden. I was pinned to my seat from start to finish. Stuart Skelton, the whole cast and orchestra conducted by Ed Gardner were mesmerising. 25 years ago I turned down the opportunity to jam with Herbie Hancock because I was too overwhelmed We’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why?I’d love to meet George Frederick Handel, and sing with him conducting from the harpsichord. I’d also love to transport him to this century and ask him what he thinks about the way his operas are performed today.Do you enjoy musicals? Do you have a favourite?I love them. It is really hard to choose a favourite, but the one I keep returning to is Sondheim’s Sweeney Todd. It has such a toxic air of menace, allure and comedy with some of the most haunting melodies.Which conductor or performer of yester-year do you most wish you could have worked with?Gustav Mahler. I have a feeling this might not be such a good idea because he was pretty neurotic, but I’d like to know his views on his Rückert Lieder, or Second Symphony.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Which non-classical musician would you love to work with?25 years ago I turned down the opportunity to have a jam session with Herbie Hancock because I was too overwhelmed. I would love for that to happen now. I’d still be overwhelmed!Imagine you’re a festival director here in London with unlimited resources. What would you programme - or commission - for your opening event?I would love commission a new opera by Judith Weir, Thomas Adès or George Benjamin. I’d like to collaborate closely, creating a role for me that would say something important about beauty, loss, politics and greed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Connolly as Giulio Cesare in Glyndebourne’s production of Handel’s opera. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianWhat do you sing in the shower?I usually warm up my voice which is a series of whoops via raspberry-blowing. I’m sure the neighbours think I’m mad.It’s late, you’ve had a few beers, you’re in a Karaoke bar. What do you choose to sing?I would never get that drunk.Sarah Connolly’s The Essay is broadcast on Radio 3 on 7 March at 10.45pm, in a series looking at inspiring women in music as part of Radio 3’s celebration of International Women’s Day on 8 March. Available to catch-up on iPlayer for 30 days.