I am the author of the Murder Most Unladylike Mysteries. They are written for nine to 12-year-olds and they star two girls, Daisy Wells and Hazel Wong. But who is in my books doesn’t seem to me as important as what they’re about (murders, detectives, the 1930s).Unfortunately, not everyone agrees with me. A few weeks ago, I received requests to visit from two different schools – but only to speak to the female pupils.I want to stress that I get a lot of inquiries about school visits, and these stand out for being the only segregated requests I’ve ever had. The vast majority of the librarians, teachers and booksellers I work with wouldn’t consider suggesting such a thing. But two people, in two different schools, did ask, and the importance of that shouldn’t be played down. When I raised this issue on Twitter I heard from plenty of authors (both men and women) who have also been asked to speak to a single-gender audience at co-ed schools. So it’s not just me.This isn’t the first time I’ve come up against this. Ever since my first book was published, adults have been asking me whether my books can be read by boys, or whether they are exclusively for girls. On the face of it, this question is simply bewildering. Why should the gender of my detectives affect who can read them? It’s like suggesting that men shouldn’t read Miss Marple or women shouldn’t read Sherlock Holmes. About isn’t the same as for – we should never limit readers to books featuring characters identical to themselves. Part of the greatest joy of reading is in stepping into the mind of someone entirely other, and experiencing the world through their eyes. As a child, I was Dennis the Menace or Just William as often as I was Matilda or Sophie, and I think I’m a more compassionate, more imaginative adult because of it.Publisher to drop gendered children's titles after parents campaign But just like those two school visit requests, I think the question about whether my books are aimed at boys or girls can’t simply be dismissed. It springs from enduring assumptions about the differences between boys and girls. Girls (so the current assumptions go) are emotional, interested in friendship and family, while boys are action-oriented, focused on fighting and sport. Because girls are so girly, boys can’t be interested in anything they do or say.In the discussions I’ve been having with other authors about this issue, there was one story that particularly stood out. A female author scheduled to speak to both boys and girls at a mixed-sex school was contacted by a mother before the event, asking which of the author’s books featured boys. She wanted to make sure her son had a book with boys in it, because he does not read books about girls. My heart sank when I heard that. Of course he doesn’t, because his mother is teaching him not to. He’s learning that girls are not worth bothering about, because that is what we’re teaching a whole generation of boys.I believe we need to think again about what stories we are giving our children. We’ve become afraid that boys won’t read “girl books”, or watch films with girls in them, and so we’re falling over ourselves to marginalise girls, separating out books, films and toys by gender. Look into the recent #wheresrey Star Wars debacle over gendered toys if you want proof that this goes beyond publishing. But we’re not solving a problem – we are sustaining one. If boys don’t read about or watch girls being heroes, they won’t believe such things are possible. They won’t see girls as leaders, and they’ll grow up expecting women to do nothing more than follow along behind them. Boys need to see girls as equals – in films, on TV and in books. And we as adults need to commit to showing them those stories.I said no to both of those schools: my books are for children, not just for girls, and I think that’s something worth defending.