How well can the new head of the IPCC, Hoesung Lee, manage the huge reforms that you and others have publicly asked for? We’ve put forward suggestions for a feasible programme of reform, but we will see how Hoesung Lee will make this his own. There’s little room for manoeuvre. In a meeting in February in Nairobi, governments decided that they’d prefer to see the status quo upheld. Lee has to be very fast and vigorous if he wants reforms. However he is very dependent upon the IPCC panel agreeing, since only the governments are entitled to a vote and thus get to have a say.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ottmar Edenhofer in Berlin, 2014. Photograph: Stefanie Loos/ReutersWhat needs changing at the IPCC?The chief aim of the IPCC must be to shed light on the total range of solutions offered by climate policy. Decision makers have to be able to understand how they can adapt to unavoidable climate change and how they can avoid dangerous climate change. For that reason, working groups two and three of the IPCC [dealing with adaptation and mitigation respectively] must work together more closely. If Hoesung Lee [the new chair of the IPCC] wants to make this happen then he has a tough managerial task ahead of him. The second big task consists of evaluating the climate policies proposed to date by governments. To do this, Lee will have to engage in intensive dialogues with governments, since up to now they have always signalled their unwillingness to let this happen.What might the big topic for next year be?We currently have a proposal for a special report on carbon taxes and emissions trading systems on the table. That’s its main focus. Other topics include food security and climate change, also the role of the oceans. We will decide which special reports to carry out in February of next year, since even special reports need a lot of time.You are calling for a stronger political role for the IPCC. Why should governments be given more weight, given that the Council is actually a scientific institution?No, I am not calling for a politicised IPCC. However, I am calling for the IPCC to make knowledge available that is relevant for decision making by national governments. But that is only possible if, on the one hand, the science stays independent and, on the other, if governments do not demand that the science justifies decisions they see as having no alternative. Normally scientists and governments come together at the beginning and end of a reporting cycle. Informal meetings could help to encourage mutual understanding. But science cannot avoid saying uncomfortable truths to governments. They are obliged to do so even though governments can sometimes kick up a real fuss when undesirable information is included in the final report.UN climate science panel elects first new leader in 13 years Is that not an admission that politics has become an ever stronger disruptive force in serious, neutral analysis?For governments the IPCC reports are the basis for climate negotiations. In fact many governments become nervous when their polities are examined. And much more nervous when we talk about the future. The future is so far off. If we explain to governments that we are in the middle of a coal renaissance, because they are on average subsidising CO2 emissions by $150 per tonne, we receive a load of objections. There’s uproar if the IPCC says that emissions would go down if subsidies were abolished. In spite of this opposition, these statements have found their way into the fifth report. The taboo has now finally been broken – that’s something that Lee can build on.After the number of national emissions pledges in the build-up to Paris, are you optimistic that there will be a new climate agreement?The best would be if states could negotiate a minimum CO2 price. Poor countries, who can’t accept a high minimum price, should receive transfers from the Green Climate Fund. That’s how we could come to an agreement on a minimum CO2 price. It would strengthen international cooperation. I am increasingly unsettled by how many diplomats believe we can solve the climate crisis even without a binding agreement. That is a big mistake.In spite of the many previous failures of governments to come to come to an agreement on climate protection, are you then still lacking real political will?I’ll give you only one figure: at the moment a thousand gigawatts of energy capacity from coal power stations are planned worldwide. If only a third of that gets built, it would still lead to some 110 gigatonnes of CO2 emitted, factoring in a operational life of forty years for a power station. The infrastructure already built would alone emit 730 gigatonnes if there was no move to adapt it. That would almost entirely use up our carbon budget if we want to stay under the two degree limit. This is why we urgently need to get started with carbon pricing. Only a price for CO2 will simultaneously make low carbon technologies profitable and the use of fossil fuels unviable. Low carbon technologies include renewable energy sources, but also capturing carbon from coal, gas or biomass power stations and storing it underground to render it harmless. An ambitious climate protection agreement would also make CCS [Carbon Capture and Storage] necessary for industrial emissions from the steel and iron industry. Unfortunately to date we have seen negative CO2 prices, because in many countries governments massively subsidise carbon. It is no wonder that we are not making progress to protect the climate.Translation: Simon Pickstone/VoxEurop