You don’t need to be in Paris this week to get in on the climate change conversation. Watching modern explorers attempt to get to the North Pole while an ice cap melts around them might be enough to get even the staunchest of global warming apologists thinking. That’s the set-up for Melting: Last Race to the Pole, a reality show/expedition that details what its creators are claiming could be the final trip to the North Pole before the impact of climate change makes the journey impossible. “The ice this year is so different from what I’ve experienced in the past,” says seasoned polar explorer Eric Larsen in a new Animal Planet special premiering on Wednesday. In vertiginous footage, he bounces up and down on a sheet of Arctic ice so compromised it responds like a water bed – just moments before his partner Ryan Waters falls through.The two-hour documentary follows Larsen and Waters on their 2014 attempt to break the record for the fastest human-powered traverse to the North Pole. But the race against the 2006 benchmark of 49 days, set by a Norwegian team, quickly becomes a struggle to ski, trudge and, eventually, swim their way across the rapidly changing Arctic.As Larsen describes it: “Take the hardest thing that you could possibly imagine – do that for 40 days. Then make it twice as hard and keep going.”In reality-TV superlatives, Animal Planet has billed it as the most difficult and dangerous expedition on Earth. Bombast aside, Larsen and Waters’ 480-mile race is one of the world’s strongest tests of human willpower. The three other teams on the ice with them that spring were evacuated, and no one has completed the crossing since.And it’s possible that no one ever will. This year, peak Arctic sea ice was the lowest on satellite record. Around the same time this year, two climate change researchers on an Arctic expedition they called the Last Ice Survey disappeared, presumed drowned. Their gear and despondent sled dog were found next to a large hole in the ice.In fact, the ice has become so hazardous that the private airline that flew all expeditions to the starting point on Ellesmere Island has ceased operations. “The biggest non-event in expedition history is happening,” Larsen said. “And no one knows about it.” When famed Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen completed the first documented expedition to the North Pole in 1926, he did so with a 16-man team and the help of the airship Norge, from which he deposited his national flag on to the ice below. It wasn’t until 1990 that any explorer reached the pole unsupported. Since then, fewer than 50 people have completed the crossing under their own power and without aid. Considering how recently humans managed this feat, it’s a bit alarming to think that the window for Arctic exploration might already have closed.“It’s very clear to me this is the last expedition of its kind,” says Larsen in the film, after finding the last few miles of ice divided by open water. It should have been too early for conditions like this. “It’s overwhelming. I don’t think we’re going to make the North Pole.”Filming their own, already challenging and dangerous expedition was an added hazard, says Larsen, who also blogged their journey. The several cameras they carried would freeze unless kept inside their long underwear. For any shot including the two of them, they had to go back for the camera, effectively tripling the distance they traveled.“When you’re cold and tired and hungry, the last thing you want to do is pull out a camera,” Larsen said.But for the sake of the Arctic, we should be glad they did. It might be the last opportunity to witness a journey of this kind.Melting: Last Race to the Pole airs Wednesday 9 December at 9pm ET on Animal Planet