From farms and vegetable gardens to recycling bins and solar power, schools across the UK have been embracing the green movement. Teachers have been involved in eco-projects to protect the environment for future generations, but also to engage students with the curriculum.This environmental awareness is not just restricted to the borders of the British isles. Schools around the world have been doing their bit to help the planet. Take Green School in Bali, for example. The private kindergarten-to-secondary in Indonesia boasts a jungle yurt classrooms made entirely from renewable materials, its campus features an organic garden and buildings are powered by hydro-electricity and solar. Then there is teacher Stephen Ritz from New York who created his own edible classroom, getting children to learn about food and the environment by growing fruit and vegetables in class.Wherever you are in the world, whether it’s Tamworth or Timbuktu, we’d like to know about green projects happening at your school and how you are teaching sustainability in class.Share your photos, stories or videos (up to two minutes long) of your green projects or areas and tell us what your students are doing to help the environment. We’ll then do a round-up of some of the be contributions on the Teacher Network site. Add your pictures by clicking on one of the blue “contribute” buttons or, if you’re out and about, you can download the GuardianWitness app on your smartphone. Please bear in mind that we need parental permission for photos which include anyone under 16s, so do make that explicit in the text when you submit them.• GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.Follow us on Twitter via @GuardianTeach. Join the Guardian Teacher Network for lesson resources, comment and job opportunities, direct to your inbox.