From Downton Abbey to Happy Valley, Westworld to Game of Thrones, rape is now a ubiquitous TV trope. That fact is deeply unsavoury in itself, but its pervasiveness also risks desensitising audiences. Yet what if the antidote to the cold and confusing onslaught of fictionalised sexual violence was, in fact, to feature even more rape on television?It could be the answer – especially if programmes follow the lead of Apple Tree Yard. The BBC’s current four-part drama, based on the novel by Louise Doughty, stars Emily Watson as Yvonne Carmichael, a goody-two-shoes scientist who embarks on an affair with a mysterious stranger she meets in the Houses of Parliament. At the end of the first episode, Yvonne is raped.It’s a shocking but by no means thrilling left-turn. In fact, the sheer mundanity of the events surrounding the rape means it jumps out of the screen, horrifying but impossible to dismiss as generic horror. Yvonne agrees to share a taxi home after a party with George, a nerdy and slightly annoying friend from work. George asks her to accompany him to his now deserted office to fetch his stuff. Which is where he attacks her. There are two reasons why the rape in Apple Tree Yard feels like a step forward. The first is that it doesn’t feel like entertainment. Even shows that are gritty, unglamorous and largely progressive, such as Sally Wainwright’s Happy Valley, feel problematic when they depict rape because the act is couched in the context of a crime drama, in which people expect to witness crimes. Yet Apple Tree Yard flits between genres: at the point at which Yvonne is raped, the show is styled as a midlife crisis romp, a romantic drama that looks set to explore the sexuality of a 50-something woman not especially used to realising her desires. This means that the rape doesn’t satisfy any generic requirements. Instead, it imposes itself on the existing dramatic arc like a storyline that has hijacked the main plot: rape is not what we’re expecting to see here.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rape is not what we’re expecting to see here … at first, the show is styled as a romantic drama, a midlife crisis romp. Photograph: BBC/Kudos/Nick BriggsThe other reason is because of what follows. Yvonne spends the second episode bristling with the myriad wounds rape inflicts; it’s both a physically violent attack (she tells her lover Mark she has suffered internal bruising and an anal tear) and a psychologically violent one. The things it has robbed her of feel all-consuming – not just her peace of mind but the way she now views herself. Yvonne also opts not to report the attack. She almost does, lingering for a moment outside a police station in her car, before sharply speeding off. This is partly because she is concerned about her husband finding out about her affair, but she also articulates a vast number of other reasons. She’s worried she won’t be believed, she’s worried about the brutality of a trial and the impact it might have on her son who has mental health issues. She doesn’t want to tarnish the rest of her life by telling her family about the rape, and is frightened they might see her differently. She also wants to keep her trauma private so she does not have to fear it coming up in conversation. She wants to maintain some semblance of control over the situation by choosing who she tells. She thinks Mark works for the secret service. She doesn’t want people she knows, even the public at large, to view her as a rape victim first and foremostIn real life, the failure to report a rape can lead to doubt being cast over the nature of the attack. A victim may be treated with suspicion and must try to convince others about what happened: both the news and the law put a high value on a convincing narrative. Yvonne doesn’t have a straight story about why she didn’t report the rape, because there isn’t one. But just because it’s winding and multifarious, it doesn’t make it untrue. And because we have shadowed Yvonne consistently, we know that her subsequent actions are in no way connected to the legitimacy of what she has experienced – as they, ideally, should never be.In Apple Tree Yard, Yvonne is treated, as she puts it, “as a collection of holes” by the man who rapes her. Unlike some TV drama, Apple Tree Yard only reaffirms her personhood. Not only does it present rape as unrelated to the narrative machinations of a cop drama or the gaudy controversy courted by high-stakes TV series, it also separates the actions of the victim from the linear narratives of the news and legal system. In a world where people are still holding television debates about whether women are responsible for provoking rapists by wearing short skirts, Apple Tree Yard isolates the horror of rape, and illuminates the surrounding irrelevance. 