Is Jack Garratt – winner of the Brits critics’ choice award, champion of the BBC Sound of 2016 poll, and the most tippable pop star of the year – just a nice, relatively stable young man making palatable electronic pop for the masses? Or is he really a twisted sociopath with a beard stitched from the downy hair of screaming child slaves, whose diet consists of nothing but raw swan meat washed down with a goblet of hen’s tears? Does he bite cats in his spare time? And is his career all just a front so that he can kick Ed Sheeran up the bottom live on ITV at the Brit Awards?It’s hard to tell. Because if Garratt does have swan-munching, Sheeran-thwarting, cat-biting impulses, then he’s also twisted enough to hide them behind the guise of an amiable 24-year-old who “just wants to make music that connects with people”.Jack Garratt: all you need to know about the BBC Sound of 2016 poll winner Which means that when we meet in a London hotel bar, Garratt provides scant indication of any dark side. His backstory appears almost entirely lacking in dirt. He grew up in Buckinghamshire with zero desire to raze his hometown of Little Chalfont to the ground (“It’s beautiful, lots of green”) and had a happy childhood in which sneaking into London pubs underage to play gigs on the open mic circuit seems to have been his major expression of rebellion. Garratt was making minor waves as a blues troubadour and part-way through a teacher-training course at university when he had a life-changing realisation: the blues songs he was playing were soppy and insincere, while the teacher-training was, well, a teacher-training course.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I was just being safe,” he admits. So he moved out of the parental home, rented a room in Notting Hill with no windows, and spent every day writing and producing songs until he felt he had found his own voice. That voice now belongs to a one-man electronic pop artist who can marry big, gospel-tinged pop hooks – as on his single Breathe Life – with more leftfield electronic elements. Think of him as a more accessible James Blake.There are reasons why music critics have been dismissive of Garratt. He does occasionally say things that could make what’s left of the counter-culture’s head explode, such as “I wanted to see if music was a viable career option,” and declaring: “Who am I to sit here and say I’m going to change the face of music?” And you wouldn’t turn to him for wild tales of rock’n’roll excess: he says he rarely drinks, no longer smokes, and has never taken any hard drugs in his life, which certainly make the lyrics to his song Weathered – “When I grow old, I’ll drink and smoke / Like I did when youth stayed, youth stayed” – seem strange.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Garratt on stage in London in 2014. Photograph: Rob Ball/WireImageBut he is also a true music obsessive and enthuses wildly about his eclectic influences, many of which are more interesting than his critics give him credit for: Australian future-soul group Hiatus Kaiyote, for instance, or reclusive alt-pop maverick Jai Paul. You can detect those influences on Phase, his forthcoming debut album – The Love You’re Given, for instance, is an intoxicating blend of falsetto soul, skittering beats and ghostly atmospherics – and they help make it stand apart from some of the previous critics’ choice winners: Ellie Goulding, James Bay and Sam Smith to name just three. Is he fine with being grouped with them?“Yeah,” he says. “Because they’re all doing things they love. I love James, I know him, and he’s one of the hardest working people in the world.” Of course. But his music is boring, right? “I’m … fine with it,” he says. “I find it hard to not like music if it has passion behind it and good integrity. Only if it’s made for the wrong reasons and shows a lack of respect for its audience will I find something to dislike.”Garratt says that he’s learned to accept that any criticism – the Independent recently ran a piece about his prominence, telling readers to “get ready for a year of blandness” – is just an opinion, even if it can hurt. He also admits that he’s baffled why anyone would want to interview him. “Because the only relatively interesting thing about me is the music, and that’s all I’m interested in talking about, really.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One problem, though, is that Garratt – while wide-eyed, charming company – isn’t always that forthcoming about his music, declining to describe his sound or interpret his lyrics because he’d prefer listeners to decide. Which is fair enough, but hardly surprising that journalists might look to other areas for juice. So come on Jack, what is your dark side? Do you ever just get the urge to smash shit up?“Smash shit up?” he asks, shaking his head like someone who probably doesn’t smash shit up very often. OK, what about cats? Do you bite cats in your spare time? “BITE CATS?!” he says, as if it’s not a perfectly reasonable question. “No! No! I don’t even like cats!”That could be the reason you bite them … “Look, I’m a dog person. There’s your headline.” Jack Garratt: I’m a dog person (who bites cats)? “I just … I don’t … it was one time, OK?”Great. Now what about Sheeran. Are you out to sabotage his career?“No! Never! I am only interested in celebrating music. Now that might suck for a journalist to hear …”C’mon Jack, you’re at least going to kick him up the arse at the Brits, right? “But … but … I might not even meet him! Where is … where is this all coming from? I genuinely have no issue with anyone. People find that hard to swallow, but honestly … I’ve had articles written about me, shitting on me for being ‘nice’ and ‘talented’.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Garratt at the SSE Hydro, Glasgow, in December 2015. Photograph: Ross Gilmore/RedfernsWhich I guess brings us back to the original question. Is it just simply the case that Jack Garratt is a relatively stable young man making palatable electronic pop? His answer surprises me. “No,” he says. “Not at all. Because nobody really knows anything about me. And I like to keep it like that. I don’t want people to know stuff.”The thing is, Garratt does have another side to him. It’s just not one that involves harming animals and/or his fellow troubadours. Go back through his quotes and, between the earnest declarations of love for making music in the right way, there are signs of a sensitive, anxious soul.Ask him if being a one-man band ever makes him lonely, and he says: “Yeah, all the time,” then relays a story about finding it difficult to fit in at school (“I felt like a piece of a jigsaw and kept trying to force myself to fit into other people’s puzzles”). He says he can handle people making jokes about his beard because “I spent 19, 20 years of my life being terrified about what I looked like. I was a ginger white kid. So all the shit I get now I’ve heard at school already.”What's with all the white-boy blues singers? Even his time playing in skacore bands as a teenager sounds less like a chance for cathartic release and more a period for deep self-examination: “I shied away from the rowdy side,” he says. Why? “Because I terrify myself easily. I think too much about stuff. I was naive and scared. Growing up, I spent a lot of time shielding myself, not allowing myself to experience moments because I was worried I would get hurt – either physically or emotionally. “From not moshing to not asking that girl out in case she says no. I was denying myself the opportunity to experience things and learn from them.” You can only imagine that being anointed – a word that makes him visibly shudder – the next big thing by the Brits before he’s had an album out has not helped. “I think about Adele or Sam Smith. Are people expecting me to do that? Because I don’t know if I will …”These pressures and insecurities all find their way on to Phase which, although not the masterpiece of a tortured artist, does contain enough nuance to suggest Garratt’s development is worth keeping an eye on. Because whoever he really is, there’s clearly a sensitive soul fighting to get out.Phase is released on 19 February on Universal/Island