Ed Miliband’s appearance on Channel 4 chatshow The Last Leg saw him have another go at a bacon sandwich photoshoot – this time in a leather jacket, on a motorbike – and form the Ed Mili-Band to performing a cover of a-ha’s Take on Me in various states of 80s dress. He also made a risque joke about David Cameron munching a hotdog – “I think he’s saying: ‘Tastes better than it feels’” – that the Huffington Post reported with a verdict of three fire emojis and an announcement that it had “destroyed” the former PM.It takes a lot of persuading to get a politician to turn up and poke fun at themselves, according to The Last Leg’s main host, Adam Hills. “It probably takes more to convince a politician to come on the show than it does to convince a celebrity,” he says. The show’s producers and researchers spent months trying to get Jeremy Corbyn; when Corbyn finally appeared, he donned a white fur coat and a tuxedo and made an entrance as if he were “a cross between James Bond and Kanye West. He was bang up for that”. Hills says it gave Corbyn a chance to show his personality and that people saw another side to him. “He came out of it looking really good,” says Hills.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hosts with the most ... Josh Widdicombe, Adam Hills and Alex Brooker. Photograph: Ian Derry/Channel 4He points out that politicians will typically come on to the show only when they have nothing left to lose. “We were joking that next time we have a politician on we should call it The Last Hurrah, because that seems to be the only circumstances under which they’ll appear on the show.” In 2015, not only did co-host Alex Brooker get Nick Clegg to admit that his tuition fees betrayal kept him awake at night, but he did so by pressing a buzzer that sounded “bullshit” whenever Clegg was evasive. It was a surprisingly flattering interview. “Nick Clegg said to me in private that it had got to the point where his media adviser said: ‘Do you want to go on The Last Leg?’” Hills recalls. “He said: ‘Well, how much worse could things possibly get?’ The irony is, after he came on, from what I understand, donations to the Lib Dems and people signing up as members went through the roof. Almost every politician who has been on, people have said afterwards: ‘Why weren’t they like that during the election?’”The fact that The Last Leg is a comedy show lets the hosts get away with far more than, say, a news programme. Often, it can result in far more revealing, less scripted answers. “Politicians generally walk on to TV shows and it’s quite a hostile environment, with a hostile audience. Our audience love it. They’re excited, they’re a little bit starstruck. So the politicians let their guard down a little bit,” says Hills.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘He came out of it looking really good’ ... Jeremy Corbyn on The Last Leg. Photograph: Channel 4With Miliband’s appearance going down so well that it led to the creation of the hashtag #milibanter, Hills says wryly that they are preparing for an influx of offers. “Bearing in mind that politicians are notoriously competitive and ego-driven to a degree, we’re assuming now that we’re going to get calls from a whole bunch of political assistants saying: ‘Yeah, Michael Howard wants to come on – and he’s got a musical number he wants to perform …’”