Sound Women, the lobbying/mentoring/ issue-raising group for women in audio, was formed five years ago. The trigger, as I recall, was the 2011 Sony awards, a celebration of radio where almost every woman who got on stage was there to present, rather than receive an award; where each of those women’s looks were commented upon by the host; where TalkSport won Station of the Year – a station which, at the time, featured an online quiz that rewarded correct answers with a video of a “lovely” removing her clothes. Gah. Even writing this makes me mad again. Anyway, executive producer and getter-of-things-done Maria Williams got a group of radio women into a room to talk about such things, and Sound Women was born. We launched in October 2011, at the Radio Festival in Manchester, with badges that became the most coveted festival item and a short film, featuring Gemma Cairney, Victoria Derbyshire, Margherita Taylor, Angie Greaves and Annie Mac. The film gave the grim stats. Of BBC local radio breakfast shows, 82% were presented by a solo man, 2% by a solo woman. Men made up 90% of studio operators and 99% of editors. Just 16% of women working in radio had dependent children. Sound Women’s aims have not all been achieved, but merely by raising the issues, something has shifted Very quickly, Sound Women made a difference. The BBC’s director general, Tony Hall, made it a priority for BBC local stations to employ more women as presenters. Absolute Radio did the same. Training schemes for women in radio tech were set up. Many male Sound Women supporters started refusing to appear on all-male panels (high five, Paddy O’Connell). And Sound Women itself was a success: its mentoring scheme was fruitful, the regional and local meet-ups supportive and over 1000 men and women joined up on a paid subscription.However, subs are not enough. A group that offers training, mentoring, meet-ups, research cannot continue without money behind it. For five years, due to non-stop funding efforts, Sound Women survived on grants and awards from organisations such as Creative Skillset and the BBC. But money has become harder to come by, and it seems wrong to ask busy women to work for no recompense when the organisation is fighting for equal pay. So Sound Women is ceasing to exist. Its legacy is impressive, and its final months will be spent running Tech Train, a course that teaches women how to “drive” a studio desk (evidence shows that presenters are paid more if they do).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Revolutionary’ (l-r): Sound Women founder Maria Williams with Annie Nightingale, Sound Women chair Chris Burns and Radio 4’s Jane Garvey and Fi Glover at the Houses of Parliament on Sound Women’s third birthday. Photograph: Sound WomenSound Women’s aims have not all been achieved, but merely by raising the issues, something has shifted. Radio festivals have changed, as have controllers’ attitudes towards female presenters and producers. The Today programme has been regularly hosted by two women, and no one has died. Annie Nightingale, Jenni Murray, Sue MacGregor are working at the top of their game and are celebrated for it. 1Xtra has upped its numbers of female DJs. Sadly, Radio 2 is still abnormally dominated by men (from 6.30am until 8pm every weekday!), but their stand-ins are usually female. If one of the big beasts drops out, then there will be a plethora of highly trained women to grab his earphones.As a radio listener, I still get frustrated by so-so men taking up airspace when there are many other women who could do so much better. I yell in traffic at zoo formats that boast three male speakers to every one female. I switch off shows where the male host does the political interviews and the woman talks Strictly. Radio 2, Radio X, most shows that involve “serious” music, sport or politics still skew madly male. The job is not yet done. It’s a bitter shame that Sound Women cannot continue. Still, everyone involved should be proud of its achievements and remember its positive, revolutionary approach. Things change if we make them change.