MORNING SHOWSUs/Them10am, Summerhall (until 28 August)This remarkable piece of theatre – playful, surprisingly and painfully funny as well as moving – presents the Beslan terror siege of 2004 from the point of view of two unnamed children who were there. It makes you question the way such events are usually presented and the way myths are constructed. Most extraordinary is that this show was made with family audiences and the over-nines in mind. Lyn GardnerRead the full five-star reviewFrom Judy Garland to Evel Knievel: 15 sure-fire Edinburgh festival hits Eurohouse10.05am, Summerhall (until 26 August)There is a moment in this collaboration between Bertrand Lesca, who is French, and the Greek Nasi Voutsas, when they get the audience to hold hands in a circle. At the performance I saw, that involved quite a lot of physical contortions. It’s a metaphor for the EU in this wonderfully playful, intimate and ultimately moving show, which constantly pits idealism against self-interest and pragmatism. LGRead the full four-star reviewTank10.30am, Pleasance Dome (until 20 August)Tackling that difficult second show with real confidence, Breach Theatre – who debuted last year with The Beanfield – offer an engaging deadpan satire on John Lilly’s 1960s research programme, which remains best known for its use of LSD on captive dolphins and because one of the researchers, Margaret Lovatt, lived for a period in close proximity with one of the males. This is likely to be the only time you will ever attend a show that features verbatim contributions from a dolphin. LGRead the full four-star reviewBridget Christie11am, Stand Comedy Club (until 29 August)Death and mortality were the intended subjects of Bridget Christie’s new set: a swerve away from the overtly political material that’s made her a must-see in recent years on the fringe. But then the EU referendum happened and her show, she told interviewers, “just didn’t seem that interesting to me any more”. The hastily put-together hour that’s replaced it, which takes Brexit as its subject, is far more than an adequate substitute: it’s a hilarious, bumbling, impotent, furious tirade against what Britain is becoming. BLRead the full five-star reviewEquations for a Moving Body11am, Northern Stage at Summerhall (until 27 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Questing intelligence … Equations for a Moving Body. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianHow do we make our own milestones in life? It’s a question considered by Hannah Nicklin in this engaging performance-cum-lecture, inspired by her decision to take part in an Ironman triathlon before she turned 30. On one hand it’s an account of her personal journey, but it’s also a metaphor for life itself: the way you lose people along the way, and how the heart is a muscle that requires exercising. It’s a tad long, but it’s full of questing intelligence, fascinating facts and wry humour as Nicklin considers what drives her – and us – on. LGWorld Without Us11.30am, Summerhall (until 28 August)One of the great things about the Belgian company Ontroerend Goed is that every piece they make is different. They’ve always dared to take risks – some of which pay off and some of which definitely don’t. That’s just as it should be, and in this latest piece they take the risk of trying to get us to contemplate the unimaginable: a world in which every human has vanished. LGRead the full three-star reviewOnce …11.30am, Assembly George Square (until 29 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fairytale for adults … Once by Derevo. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianLove makes fools of everyone in this clowning show from the Russian company Derevo, who swept the board with awards when it was seen in Edinburgh in 1998. Even Cupid gets it wrong in this fantastical tale: a ragged old man falls in love with a beautiful waitress in what is effectively a Harlequin and Columbine story. It’s cute as hell, and often quite kitsch, but it would be a frozen heart that didn’t respond to the sweet openness and pain of this fairytale for adults – or admire the skill with which it is executed. LGFabric11.55am, Underbelly Cowgate (until 28 August)Nancy Sullivan is completely engaging and utterly heart-breaking as Leah who grew up dreaming of marriage and who thought she had found her prince in Ben. Abi Zakarian’s script for this one-woman piece is beautifully observed and funny too. What initially seems to be a whip-smart contemporary version of an Alan Bennett Talking Head turns into something far darker as romance gives way to reality and Leah’s life is stained in many different ways. Clever set and sound design, too, in a show that brings dirty little male secrets out into the light. LGJosie Long and Martin Williams: Investigations12pm, Stand Comedy Club (until 28 August)Comedy on the fringe can take many forms: wrestling, therapy, fine dining. So why not investigative journalism? The well-loved DIY standup Josie Long teams up with Guardian writer Williams on a show that fuses comedy with politics, exposing truth, and muck-raking beneath and beyond the news headlines. Based on a version I saw in London last year, it will be informative, outspoken, amusing and unlike anything else. BLBinari12pm, Assembly Hall (until 29 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unexpected charmer … Binari Photograph: -When a traditional dance form is uprooted from its local culture it runs the risk of losing its integrity or its life. But Binari, an unexpected charmer of a show that’s based on the songs and dances of Korean funeral rites, makes the journey to the western stage with real grace. On paper it sounds forbiddingly austere, its narrative essentially the rite of passage by which the soul of a dead woman is released into the afterlife. Yet Binari is choreographed with such a satisfying fusion of dance, music and imagery that the work feels anything but remote. JMRead the full three-star reviewAFTERNOONLemons Lemons Lemons Lemons Lemons12.10pm, Roundabout @ Summerhall (until 28 August)Last year, playwright Sam Steiner’s debut show was in the hottest room on the fringe, but it (and the audience) will have room to breathe now that it is staged in Paines Plough’s Roundabout tent. This smartly conceived, pared-back love story imagines a world in which everyone is only allowed an allocation of 140 words a day. The effects on life, and in particular relationships, are explored in a really neat show about being forced to say less but mean more. LGEdinburgh festival 2016: 21 unmissable shows for kids and their families Last Dream (on Earth)1.25pm, Assembly Hall (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An achingly beautiful meditation … Last Dream (on Earth). Photograph: Tommy Ga-Ken WanPart of the excellent Made in Scotland programme, Kai Fischer’s piece created with the National Theatre of Scotland is quality stuff, a headphones show and sound installation that offers an often achingly beautiful meditation on risk and travel in search of a better – or another – life. It weaves stories of space exploration with accounts of those who risk their lives on leaky boats to make the perilous journey between Africa and Europe. Last Dream (on Earth) may feature live music but it’s not a piece with bells and whistles – rather, it takes audiences on a quietly rewarding journey of their own. LGAustentatious1.30pm, Underbelly, George Square (until 21 August)When I reviewed Austentatious: An Improvised Jane Austen Novel a few years back, I was happy to help spread the word about a very funny long-form improv show making hay with the conventions of Regency-era period drama. I didn’t know then that Austentatious would also become a production line for eminent solo comics: in the years since, musical act Rachel Parris and multimedia innovator Joseph Morpurgo have joined co-star Cariad Lloyd as acclaimed performers in their own right. (Other cast members are going solo this year, too.) Meanwhile, Austentatious goes strong, and promises a skilled and highly enjoyable hour of off-the-cuff, gowns-and-ballrooms comedy. BLLove, Lies and Taxidermy1.35pm, Roundabout at Summerhall (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bringing people together … Love Lies and Taxidermy. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianWhy isn’t life more like the movies? Maybe sometimes, against all the odds, it can be. So it proves for the unhappily named Valentine, son of a Polish taxidermist, and Ashley, daughter of Mr Tutti-Frutti, a debt-ridden ice-cream salesman in a town where it’s too cold to eat ice-cream. Alan Harris spins a piece of very funny popular theatre about the need for dreams, seizing the initiative when all seems lost and bringing people together. LGRead the full four-star reviewLetters to Windsor House1.35pm, Summerhall (until 28 August)London’s housing crisis and its effects upon relationships is explored with beady-eyed sharpness and a large dollop of humour in the latest from Sh!t Theatre. It’s deceptively rackety stuff, but it gets to the heart of a situation in which the social cleansing of London’s poor is taking place almost without comment, and people’s lives are becoming dominated by the need to find somewhere affordable to live. LGGoggles2pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 29 August)Edinburgh is full of young companies making fluffy, whimsical theatre, and at first sight This Egg’s two-hander about love, friendship and breaking free seems to be just one more. But there are hidden depths in a hugely enjoyable story in which the performers also play two goldfish, and where the metaphor for escaping the fish bowl of a suffocating relationship is handled with humour and a lightness of touch. Lots of fun. LGOne Hundred Homes2.05pm, Summerhall (until 28 August)You go into a shed in the Summerhall courtyard and are offered tea and biscuits. Then Yinka Kuitenbrouwer delves into her archive, and tells you about her encounters with some of the 100-plus people she has visited in the places where they live, and asked what home means to them. It’s as simple as that. But it’s quietly heartwarming and thoughtful too, as it makes unexpected connections, raises questions about expectation and privilege, knocks back assumptions and probes whether home is a place or a state of mind. Just lovely. LGGiants3.15pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Engaging … GiantsBorn two days apart, apparently, and – if their show is to be believed – boon companions in infancy, Barney Fishwick and Will Hislop (son of Ian) now debut in Edinburgh with their double-act Giants. Former Oxford Revue presidents, there’s a sense here of a duo still working out their USP, in a show that brings nothing blazingly new or distinctive to the sketch world. But they’re engaging and watchable hosts, whose charm offsets the weaker sketches, and who have enough strong alternatives (including the one where Fishwick amusingly misplaces his cup of coffee) to make this maiden set worth a visit. BLSmother3.20, Zoo Southside (until 27 August)Hip-hop has progressed a long way beyond its old macho image, but still it’s a surprise to encounter a dance work like Smother, which places a story of gay love and gay relationships at its heart … While Smother has the dramatic texture of a play, it is unequivocally a dance piece: and with performers of terrific strength and personality, it takes hip-hop into thrillingly new terrain. JMRead the full four-star reviewLucy, Lucy and Lucy Barfield3.30pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 29 August)I love the fringe because it throws up small, thoughtful, moving and unassuming shows such as this one in which Lucy Grace sets out in search of Lucy Barfield, the girl to whom CS Lewis dedicated The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. A piece about growing up and discovering that you are locked out of Narnia forever – and about trying to make a future when the magic is lost – it may not be very sophisticated but it has an unaffected grace (in more ways than one) as it unravels the mystery. LGBilal Zafar: Cakes3.40pm, Just the Tonic at the Mash House (until 28 August)Bilal Zafar won the prestigious New Act of the Year award earlier this year, after which you might expect he’d hit Edinburgh eager to show off his acclaimed standup chops. Instead, he makes his debut with a gentle PowerPoint show, telling the story – illustrated by screengrabs from Twitter – of how a fake identity he adopted online attracted the ire of the far right. The show’s charms arrive in a fairly low key: the Islamophobic e-kerfuffle he kicks up is a minor one, and there are no great surprises in the revelation that Twitter is permanently manned by idiots. But Zafar’s wry circumspection is well-judged, and the material cribbed from his online persecutors duly delivers some big laughs. BLThe Interference3.45pm, C Chambers (until 16 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gripping … The Interference. Photograph: Brittney RiveraIn American football, an interference is when one player obstructs another using his body. In Lynda Radley’s play it takes on many meanings when Karen is raped by one of the campus’s brightest sports stars, Smith. Will the police take her seriously? How will the university deal with the matter? Everyone has got an opinion on the internet, and soon Karen finds that it’s Smith who is being cast as the victim. There’s a questing intelligence to a gripping drama that doesn’t shirk the complexities of the case and cleverly uses a fragmented style to reflect the noisiness of a connected media and online world where all the chatter interferes with justice. LGAda/Ava4pm, Underbelly Potterrow (until 29 August)If you love the work of Paper Cinema you will also fall for this macabre little charmer by the Chicago company Manual Cinema, who hand-craft a movie in front of your eyes using puppetry, live music and action. It’s got a real black-and-white, silent-film retro appeal as it tells the story of an elderly woman learning to cope alone when her identical twin unexpectedly dies. Full of loving detail, skill and ingenuity, the show takes grief very seriously as it plays with mirror images to clever effect. LGRadio Active4.20pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)Inspired by the staging of old Hancock’s Half Hour scripts on the Fringe last year, Angus Deayton is now doing the same with Radio Active, his commercial-broadcasting spoof, co-written with the late Geoffrey Perkins, that ran for seven years in the 1980s on Radio 4. It’s a jolly hour of media mickey-takery, albeit one that seems tame 30 years on and may indeed have seemed fairly tame in the first place. Brian LoganRead the full three-star reviewGoose: Hydroberserker4.30pm, Assembly George Square Gardens (until 28 August)Adam Drake is like a piece of stretched elastic throughout this kinetic solo sketch show, all strained sinews and nervous tension as he tries to fathom the mystery of his missing sweetheart, Belle … Among the quickfire sketches that interrupt Drake’s story, there’s a neat gag about dining in the dark and a droll routine at the expense of his feminist credentials. And there’s a killer finale to a niftily constructed, frenetical hour. BLRead the full four-star reviewInfinity Pool: A Modern Retelling of Madame Bovary4.35pm, Bedlam (until 29 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deliciously quirky … Infinity Pool: A Modern Retelling of Madame Bovary. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianHere’s something completely different and deliciously quirky. Bea Roberts, who wrote the terrific And Then Come the Nightjars, reimagines Madame Bovary for the 21st century without actors but with considerable help from two screens, a TV monitor, an overhead projector and a sound deck. Our heroine is no French provincial housewife but an admin assistant in a Plymouth plumbers with a ruinous Asos habit and a marriage long gone stale. Imagine Bridget Jones meets The Office meets 19th-century realist fiction. Even with technical difficulties at the performance I saw, this original show proved painfully funny and oddly moving. LGKaty Brand: I Was a Teenage Christian4.45pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 29 August)Katy Brand has a fine story to tell of her youthful obsession with revivalist Christianity. In the telling, it lacks dramatic shape or climax. But what it loses in artfulness, it gains in honesty: Brand feels the cringe and does it anyway, parading her teenage egotism and delusion to diverting, if not uproarious, comic effect. It’s an entertaining account of a teenager’s search for herself and of the impulses that drive some of us into religion’s comforting embrace. BLRead the full three-star reviewEdinburgh festival 2016: what to see and where to go How (Not) to Live in Suburbia4.50pm, Summerhall (until 28 August)Annie Siddons turns personal disaster into art with witty, engaging satire that sends up both herself and the inhabitants of Twickenham as she succumbs to fiscal failure and professional paralysis in the leafy suburbs. Of course it’s not really about suburbia but about a corrosive, creeping loneliness and depression. It’s dark, but it’s also playful and inventive with a lovely Jane Austen-style leave-taking spoof and a brilliant scene in which she is evicted from the book club for making everyone else feel stupid. LGDancer5pm, Dance Base (until 28 August)An exquisite two-hander created by Gary Gardiner and Ian Johnston with the late Adrian Howells. Howells’ mantra that “it’s all allowed” underpins a simple but moving piece in which the learning disabled Johnston tells us about who is and isn’t allowed to dance, and in the process offers up his sharpest moves. It celebrates the sheer joy of losing yourself on the dance floor and challenges preconceptions and expectations. LGBarrowland Ballet: Whiteout5pm, Zoo Southside (until 27 August)Natasha Gilmore has a warm, witty and poetic eye for the nuances of ordinary life. In her previous fringe hit, Carmel, she assembled a vividly assorted cast (ranging from an 18-month-old baby to an 82-year-old dancer) to explore the dynamics of family life. In Whiteout she uses her own marriage to a West African as the springboard to probe the possibilities and the problems of falling in love in a multi-racial society. Set to a soundtrack by Luke Sutherland, Gilmore’s work promises a rich choreographic mix, layered with her acute observation of everyday human behaviour. Judith MackrellDaphne’s Second Show5.45pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Uneven charm … Daphne. Photograph: Matt CrockettThey were the buzziest new sketch troupe in the run-up to last year’s fringe, and Daphne (Phil Wang, George Fouracres and Jason Forbes) duly delivered with their seductively off-beam debut. Peter Pan, Henry V and the American slave trade featured in the sketches; arch self-consciousness attended every punchline. And yet, here was a trio that didn’t quite work like other sketch troupes. Their unevenness was part of their considerable charm. Might the intervening year have planed down Daphne’s jagged edges, or will their second fringe outing build on their first? BLRose Matafeo5.45pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)Twenty-four-year-old New Zealander Rose Matafeo was nominated for best newcomer at the Melbourne Comedy festival, and within moments of her appearance onstage, you can see why. She’s a whirlwind of comic energy, with a confidence and ability you seldom see in rookie standups. In her first fringe outing, ostensibly themed around her own funeral, she doesn’t quite sustain that steamroller force: she’s out of breath for much of its second half. But this is still a stellar debut: silly, charismatic, and packed with great gags about mortality, clothes shopping and the Jamaican dancehall king Sean Paul. BL EVENINGKiri Pritchard-McLean: Hysterical Woman6pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 29 August)In this bold solo debut, Kiri Pritchard-McLean – director of sketch troupe Gein’s Family Giftshop – explains how women seldom get to appear alongside other women in comedy clubs, and how all-female bills get called “Paralympic nights”. She talks about how she has internalised that thinking; how she’s scared of ever not being funny and letting down all womankind. Credit to her for making a show that’s raucous and good-humoured without stinting on the protest. BLRead the full three-star reviewBrennan Reece6pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Impressive … Brennan Reece. Photograph: Duncan ElliottYou probably won’t know him as the 2015 English Comedian of the Year – chances are you won’t even know the award exists – but such is the pedigree of young Brennan Reece, now making his fringe debut. You can see what must have impressed the judges: good jokes, an idiosyncratic personality and a poetic regional voice with stories to tell of an unglamorous Lancashire hinterland. Reece brings a bit of it with him to Edinburgh, recreating his parents’ front room in the Pleasance Bunker. It’s a lovely introduction to a comic exploring the transition from childhood to adulthood, frankly addressing the pitfalls he’s pitched into – and celebrating his own hard-won refusal to fit in. BLScorch6.05pm, Roundabout at Summerhall (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Utterly mesmerising … Amy McAllister in Scorch. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianProduced by the fine Northern Irish company Prime Cut, Stacey Gregg’s play is clearly inspired by the case of Justine McNally, who was convicted of “gender fraud” after starting a sexual relationship with a teenage girl who believed her to be a boy. The in-the-round space works beautifully as Kes sits before us and talks as if we are at a meeting of an LGBTQ group. Amy McAllister is utterly mesmerising, with confusion and hurt etched across her face as Kes comes to terms with lost love. LGRead the full three-star review E156.30pm, Northern Stage at Summerhall (until 27 August)Loud, raucous and angry, but also deceptively disciplined and focused, Lung theatre company’s verbatim-style piece tells the story of the Focus E15 campaign, started by a group of mums – many of them teenagers – who in 2013 were issued with eviction notices from the mother-and-baby unit of a hostel for vulnerable young people. The show’s real joy here is in watching these women – played by a brilliant young cast – discover their ability to speak out. LGRead the full four-star reviewRachel Parris: Best Laid Plans6.50pm, Pleasance Dome (until 28 August)Best Laid Plans is about the grown-up Parris expected to be when she was six – house, car, husband, kids – and how real life has refused to play ball. At the show’s tender heart, though, is an account of Parris’s recent breakup, which pitched her for the first time into depression. She’s endearingly frank and funny about the experience, even if the sometime jauntiness of her Samaritans correspondence sits uneasily with the air of emotional candour. But it’s all beautifully crafted and performed. BLRead the full four-star reviewZoë Coombs Marr: Trigger Warning6.50pm, Underbelly (until 28 August)Zoë Coombs Marr made a splash last year with her first show, Dave, playing an old-school, sexist standup floundering against self-hate and a changing world. Impressive though it was, its satire wasn’t especially close to the bone. I prefer the follow-up, which won the Barry award at Melbourne’s comedy festival. Here, Coombs Marr maintains the burlesque on chauvinism, but adds a timely mickey-take of Doctor Brown-style silent clowning, as Dave tries and fails to reinvent himself for a 2016 crowd. BLRead the full four-star reviewMr Swallow: Houdini7pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August) Overlooked for an Edinburgh Comedy award nomination two years ago, when his spoof Dracula musical first sunk its fangs into the world, Nick Mohammed surely won’t be so unlucky this time around. Of the shows eligible, Mr Swallow’s Houdini is the most giddily enjoyable I’ve seen, a faux-musical about the life of the great escapologist, again ring-led by Mohammed’s camp, chatterbox alter ego, and featuring extraordinary feats of escape alongside the blithering, convention-shredding comedy. BLRead the full five-star reviewHeads Up7.05pm, Summerhall (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This is the news from the end of the world … Kieran Hurley in Heads Up. Photograph: Niall WalkerKieran Hurley’s new solo show is a quiet hurricane blowing through the city. It is an anxious whisper that becomes a shout; a moment of silence that turns into the high-pitched whine of catastrophe. Sitting behind a desk, unassumingly dressed in a suit like someone regretfully delivering bad news, Hurley tells of the end of the world through the stories of four people whose lives are disconnected. LGRead the full four-star reviewNatalia Osipova and Guests7.30pm, Festival theatre (until 14 August)Natalia Osipova and Sergei Polunin reveal new facets of their talent in this triple bill of contemporary dance works. They are dark, trashy and funny in Arthur Pita’s Run Mary Run, a story of doomed young love set to music by the 1960s girl group the Shangri–Las; while in Russell Maliphant’s Silent Echo they re-invent the logic of the classical pas de deux in a dance of fluid sensuality. Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui’s airborne trio Qutb sees Osipova’s exceptional suppleness and strength pitted against two other men; the evening is a fascinating instance of ballet dancers who are willing to perform outside the box. JMSofie Hagen: Shimmer Shatter7.50pm, Liquid Room Annexe (until 28 August)The Danish standup Sofie Hagen won the best newcomer award at last year’s fringe with Bubblewrap, a show addressing her teenage self-harm. It was also about her Westlife obsession, which usefully anchored the riskier material in extracts from her adolescent boyband fan-fiction that couldn’t fail to amuse. Her follow-up, Shimmer Shatter, lacks those bulletproof set pieces. But if the laughs are less raucous, Hagen confirms her skill at combining confessional intimacy with some laser-guided gags. BLRead the full three-star reviewMeasure for Measure8pm, Lyceum (until 20 August)Declan Donnellan and Nick Ormerod’s stagings of classic texts for their company Cheek by Jowl often have a spare aesthetic and piercing clarity. So it proves with this punchy version of Shakespeare’s morality play that is played in Russian and relocated to contemporary Russia, presented as a brutal place of secrets and lies where the power of the state reaches into personal lives with devastating consequences. LGNish Kumar: Actions Speak Louder Than Words, Unless You Shout the Words Real Loud 8pm Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nish Kumar: What can a satirist do with our post-truth politics?The night after the Brexit vote, 10 years into a distinguished standup career, Nish Kumar was playing the Comedy Store, and received his first racist heckle. “Go home!,” shouted the heckler, to a comic born and raised in the UK. Kumar has featured prominently in pre-festival articles about Brexit and comedy, and chances are high he’ll address the changed climate and racism revival in his new show. Thoughtful discussion of front-line culture and politics (leavened by his keen eye for the ridiculous) is what we’ve come to expect from Kumar, after a breakout 2015 show about leftwing culture and humour that saw the Croydon man nominated for an Edinburgh Comedy award. BLNazeem Hussain – Legally Brown8pm, Assembly George Square (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cartoonish but smart … Nazeem Hussain. Photograph: Jonny Weeks for the GuardianOn his last visit to the fringe, Nazeem Hussain was the perkier half of the Aussie double act Fear of a Brown Planet. It’s not hard seeming perky, mind you, when your sidekick is the stern – and superb – Aamer Rahman. Now both are making waves with their solo standup, and in Hussain’s case, with the televised sketch show Legally Brown. This stage version, which played in London last year, offers an upbeat, cartoonish – but smart – take on interracial misunderstandings, everyday discrimination, and being a brown man in a white man’s country. BLNina Conti8pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 29 August)On her West End run this spring, ventriloquist Nina Conti largely dispensed with what you might consider to be the voice-thrower’s most essential prop: her doll. OK, so Monkey does feature in her new show, In Your Face – now at the fringe in a condensed version. But in this set, it’s usually the audience that Conti voices. They come onstage, Conti straps them into an animated mask, and – as their rubbery lips flap up and down – improvises them crazy stuff to say. It’s a surpassingly curious spectacle, a real plate-spinning feat from Conti and – in the lucky-dip environment of the fringe – a reliably entertaining hour. BLLucy McCormick: Triple Threat8.10pm, Underbelly (until 28 August)She can sing, act and dance – but the real threat of this show created by Getinthebackofthevan’s McCormick is that you will no longer be able to think about the New Testament without associating the Three Wise Men with Christina Aguilera’s Dirty – or Doubting Thomas with anal fingering. Listen, this irreverent, provocative and vastly enjoyable show is definitely not for everyone. Or for anyone who is easily offended, doesn’t like live art and has never thought that the body of Christ needs reclaiming by a woman. This is a sly, funny piece that knows exactly what its doing and boasts an unholy trinity of brilliantly skilled performers. LG(I Could Go on Singing) Over the Rainbow8.15pm, Summerhall (until 28 August)If you are looking for human contact amid the noise of the fringe, then FK Alexander’s Autopsy award-winning show may well fit the bill – although it makes quite a racket, as it features the Glasgow noise band Okishima Island Tourist Association. The premise is simple: FK Alexander serenades one audience member at a time to Judy Garland’s final recording of Somewhere Over the Rainbow. It’s a gift for the person receiving, but there is also much more here about endurance and the way we demand a piece of our female icons. LGSam Simmons8.15pm, Underbelly Potterrow (until 28 August)“The best comedian in the world,” the Age newspaper in Australia has taken to calling Sam Simmons. It’s no idle boast: in 2015 he did, after all, become only the second comic ever to win Melbourne’s Barry award and the Edinburgh comedy award in the same year. Now the love-him-or-feel-confused Aussie who calls himself “the coriander of comedy” is back with the follow-up, Not a People Person. Reportedly lighter on confessional material than last year’s hit, it should see Simmons return to the outright cod-surrealist madcappery – with added rage – with which he made his name. BLSpencer Jones Presents the Herbert in Eggy Bagel8.50pm, Heroes @ the Hive (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dorkily disarming clown show … Spencer Jones as the HerbertAn out-of-nowhere hit at last year’s fringe, Spencer Jones’s alter ego the Herbert disarmed audiences with his gormless, goofily attired prop-comedy. Litter-picking tools mouthed off and squeegee mops sang soul music in this dorky clown show about a misfit’s struggle to hold down a proper job. No such difficulties for Jones, who’s been in demand ever since – witness his prominent role in Ben Elton’s Shakespeare sitcom Upstart Crow. But – while he’s been warning in interviews that the Herbert may soon be put out to grass – Jones brings the character back in two shows on this year’s fringe: last year’s hit revisited, and a new offering entitled Eggy Bagel. BLBurnistoun Live at the Fringe9pm, Gilded Balloon Teviot (until 14 August)There’s no doubt that Burnistoun Live – visiting the fringe after a successful tour – is primarily for fans of the TV show. Some characters (Connell’s bedroom-bound internet star Jolly Boy John, say) barely make sense out of context. But I still found plenty to enjoy in the duo’s brusque humour, which couldn’t be more Glaswegian if “Clyde-built” came stamped on every punchline. BLRead the full three-star reviewMichelle Wolf: So Brave9.30pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)You could call Michelle Wolf brave for opening her first gigs outside the US with material on failed presidential hopeful Ben Carson. But Wolf hates that nowadays everyone gets called brave or beautiful. This kind of blandifying trope comes under sustained comic attack in So Brave, in which the new Daily Show correspondent announces herself as a supremely confident new voice at the Edinburgh fringe. BLRead the full four-star reviewKieran Hodgson: Maestro9.30pm, Voodoo Rooms (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mad about Mahler … Kieran Hodgson. Photograph: Alecsandra Raluca Dragoi for the Guardian“I listen to [Mahler’s] music every day and dream of writing a show about him,” Kieran Hodgson told an interviewer last year. Well, it’s the fringe, where dreams come true – and lo, last year’s Edinburgh Comedy award nominee returns with a new show addressing his love of the Austrian composer. It’s the latest in a series of rites-of-passage autobiographical shows by the unassuming Hodgson, after 2014’s French Exchange, and last year’s all-conquering Lance, a terrific and tricksy story about his teenage cycling obsession. Maestro is billed as “a story about trying to find love when you’re the kind of loser who writes classical music instead of playing football,” and it’s on the Free Fringe. BLGoodbear9.30pm, Bedlam (until 28 August)A highlight of last year’s comedy lineup was the sketch troupe Minor Delays, whose stripped-back style made ample space for their tart burlesques on (usually) bourgeois life. This year, one third of that trio, Joe Barnes, doubles up with Henry Perryment in another excellent – if not quite so eye-catching – sketch hour. The conceit finds Barnes and Parryment presenting “a selection of characters and occurrences from around the world on a single day in 2016”. In practice, that plays out much like any other sketch show, save that, when this twosome are good – Perryment deploying his acting chops; winsome Barnes flirting with the audience – it can be very funny indeed. BL30 Cecil Street9.30pm, Forest Fringe (until 27 August)Part of a double bill with Paper Cinema’s enchanting DIY movie NightFlyer, this show from Dan Canham raises the ghosts at a derelict Limerick theatre. Using sound, music, movement and gaffer tape – as if at the scene of an accident – Canham brings the past alive. The walls themselves seem to leak memories of past glories, one last time before the place finally falls silent. It’s a spine-tingling performance, laced with ideas about the ephemeral nature of theatre and its place in the community. LGRichard Gadd9.45pm, Banshee Labyrinth (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Open-vein confession … Richard Gadd’s Monkey See Monkey Do. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianIn his earliest shows, full of sex, violence and debasement, there was a sense that a less cartoonish Gadd might be evading detection beneath the surface schlock. Well, now he makes his appearance – but only after spending his whole show on a treadmill, fleeing his demons and the horror of intimate self-exposure on stage at the Edinburgh fringe. The backbone here is Gadd’s crazed inner monologue while out running – a strategy he’s adopted to keep anxiety at bay. Not for the first time at this year’s fringe, this is a show that by the end offers open-vein emotional engagement over laughs, as we bear witness to Gadd’s illness and healing. BLRead the full four-star reviewPhil Nichol9.45pm, Assembly Checkpoint (until 28 August)When Phil Nichol won the Edinburgh comedy award 10 years ago, it already felt like a long service tribute to one of the great festival tyros: a man who regularly brings multiple shows to Edinburgh, spanning theatre, comedy, musical Proclaimers impersonations and explosive in-yer-face mayhem. (It helped, of course, that award-winner The Naked Racist was a great show too.) A decade on, Nichol’s still coming, and this year celebrates 20 years’ of solo comedy shows on the fringe. We’re promised a compilation of the Canadian’s greatest hits, which should be a treat, as he’s got plenty to choose from. BLLATE NIGHTChris Gethard: Career Suicide10pm, Pleasance Dome (until 29 August)Even by the standards of today’s mental-health-conscious comedy, Gethard’s show is intimate and explicit. Sometimes, when Gethard is detailing his OCD thought processes, or how medication affected his ability to ejaculate, you may want to run screaming to the nearest Spencer Jones gig. But Gethard’s openness and frankness are affecting, and he has built a comedy set around them with considerable skill and good humour. BLRead the full four-star reviewOliver Reed: Wild Thing10pm, Gilded Balloon (until 29 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hell-raising … Rob Crouch in Oliver Reed: Wild Thing. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianThe one-person show about a celebrity is the stuff of the Edinburgh fringe but Rob Crouch’s account of the life of hell-raiser Reed – star of Women in Love, Oliver! and many far more forgettable British movies – is genuinely intelligent and thoughtful as it considers the pitfalls of fame and the dangers of falling for your own myth. Crouch is just phenomenal as Reed, a swaggering, fist-swinging mess of a man trapped in the crowd-pleasing image of his own making and so doomed to endlessly repeat himself. LGMouse: The Persistence of an Unlikely Thought10pm, Traverse (until 28 August)Daniel Kitson does Sliding Doors? Even if his shows didn’t sell out in minutes, that’d be a hot ticket. In this new solo play, Kitson portrays William, a lonely writer cooped up in his “warehouse” office, 12 years into creating a story about a woman and a communicative rodent. Kitson interrupts the action to narrate, in flashback, the events that led William to this point. It’s a story about friendships and their absence, and about the tiny moments on which a life hinges. BLRead the full four-star reviewNorris & Parker: See You at the Gallows10.45pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)Katie Norris and Sinead Parker tread a twisted path in See You at the Gallows, a show that takes the desperate, the deluded and the psychopathic for its subjects. But there’s nothing sombre about it. It’s flamboyantly silly – shades of We Are Klang, one-third of whom (Steve Hall) directs – and there’s a pleasing looseness to how the show flits between theatrical styles. But there’s a bedrock of fine, funny writing and skilful comic performance. BLRead the full four-star reviewThe Travelling Sisters10.45pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)You can let your hair down late at night on the fringe, right? Suspend normal standards. Go with the flow. That’ll help if you see The Travelling Sisters, an off-beat Aussie trio with several characters, numbers and odd interludes to share with you. Whether they’re playing self-peeling potatoes, movement-theatre maestros or a chanteuse constructed from all three of their bodies, Laura Trenerry, Lucy Fox and Ell Sachs pitch everything they do right at the audience. Occasionally, we get dragooned into the impish action. Chances are you’ll laugh, or at the very least be delightfully bemused. BLFin Taylor11.15pm, Gilded Balloon at the Counting House (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Taking aim at white privilege … Fin Taylor. Photograph: Steve UllathorneOK, so he uses the word “white” to mean “white middle-class”. And yes, in the playful ardour of his arguments, his logic isn’t always unimpeachably pure. But there’s no gainsaying the force of (white) standup Fin Taylor’s late-night hour, which takes aim – tongue only slightly in cheek – at white privilege. Racism can’t be fixed until white people acknowledge their identity and its advantages, he contends – offering his mainly pale-skinned audience a head start with routines about gentrification, cultural appropriation and, er, bestiality. It’s gleefully provocative, occasionally insightful and packed with good, loud jokes. BLTIMES VARYShowstopper! The Improvised MusicalPleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)These performers are really talented and clever, and they have an Olivier award to prove it. Taking suggestions from the audience for scenarios and for musical theatre styles, they think on their feet and with their vocal chords to create original material, paying homage to and sending up some of the great musicals with a wicked wit. It’s more enjoyable if you have sufficient knowledge of the musical form to recognise the cribs, but even if you don’t, you will admire the comic ingenuity. LGThe Red ShedTraverse (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Funny, raw, angry … The Red Shed. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianThe Red Shed is Wakefield’s Labour club. Mark Thomas has been going there since he was a student at nearby Bretton Hall. This show is Thomas’s love letter to the Shed and to half a century of Labour activism, embracing the legacies of the miners’ strikeand the dangers of mis-remembering – or not remembering at all. This is a storytelling show at its simplest: funny, raw and angry. LGRead the full four-star review for The Red ShedThe Glass MenagerieKing’s theatre (until 21 August)Long before he was one of the masterminds of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, John Tiffany directed Tennessee Williams’s 1944 play for the American Repertory theatre at Harvard. He has now revived that production with its original star, Cherry Jones, who is a legend on Broadway but little-known in Britain. The triumph of this production is Jones’s performance as Amanda, the former southern belle who dreams of finding a suitor for the socially gauche Laura. MBRead the full four-star review for The Glass MenagerieAlan Cumming Sings Sappy Songs!The Hub (until 27 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Making mischief … Alan Cumming Sings Sappy Songs! Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianOld-style Talk of the Town-type cabaret is very much in vogue, and Cumming burns bright with a mixture of old and new torch songs that range from Noël Coward to Katy Perry. It’s a little bit filthy, a little bit gossipy and a little bit louche but Cumming is always heartfelt in a show which feels surprisingly intimate and which is often emotionally self-revealing. Worth it alone for his version of Rufus Wainwright’s Dinner at Eight. LGRead the full four-star reviewGreater BelfastTraverse (until 28 August)The musician and theatre-maker Matt Regan, alias Little King, hasn’t lived in Belfast for five years but he can still smell the sea and feel the salty wind on his face. He makes us think that we have felt and smelled it too. There are moments of exquisite beauty in this indefinable and utterly distinctive show that makes a mockery of all the old boundary-defining labels such as “gig”, “theatre” and “spoken word”. LGRead the full four-star reviewDiary of a MadmanTraverse (until 28 August)In Nikolai Gogol’s short story Diary of a Madman, Poprishchin is a lowly Russian civil servant driven mad by his lack of status and his confusion at a changing world. In Al Smith’s play, he has become Pop Sheeran, whose family trade is painting the Forth Bridge. This production is well worth seeing, though, for Liam Brennan’s tender performance as Pop, a tragic clown out of time and out of a job. LGRead the full three-star reviewJames Acaster: ResetPleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Exquisite writing … James Acaster. Photograph: Graham FlackAt the best of the jokes in James Acaster’s new show, you can only sit back and marvel: the trajectory of his line of thought contrives to be both obvious and mind-blowing; the “how does he do it?” factor is high. Added to the exquisite writing and beady performance that we expect is some satirical bite, with a routine about Britain’s colonial plunder and a gag proposing peppermint tea as a metaphor for Brexit. BLRead the full four-star reviewMy Eyes Went DarkTraverse (until 28 August)Revenge is already an emerging theme at this year’s festival, and Matthew Wilkinson’s taut, brilliantly acted two-hander fits the bill, telling the story of a Russian architect who refuses to believe that the plane crash that killed his family was an accident. It’s the kind of meaty, tense drama that plays out so well in the theatre, which becomes an arena in which to raise issues of justice and forgiveness, and to question how we continue living in the face of unbearable grief. A compassionate contemporary play with the spare, emotional clout of a Greek tragedy. LGThe View from Castle RockartSpace@StMarks (until 29 August)The Laidlaws were just some of the estimated one million people who, during the 19th century, tried to escape the grinding poverty of their lives in their native Scotland by sailing across the water to make a life in the new world. Their trail has been pieced together by the Canadian writer Alice Munro, who has then added a dollop of imagination to her stories about the lives of her ancestors. This adaptation by Linda McLean, staged by Marilyn Imrie for the company Stellar Quines, honours the graceful economy of Munro’s prose. LGRead the full four-star reviewIn FidelityTraverse (until 28 August)Rob Drummond gets two members of the audience up on stage with him and tries to persuade them to fall in love with each other, in a light-touch show that looks at Darwinian theory and asks whether we are genetically programmed to cheat … Drummond isn’t just putting the truth and our personal morals on trial, he is putting live theatre itself in the dock. Inevitably that won’t always work. But I reckon you should pay your money and take your chances. Because whatever happens it won’t be a dull evening. LGRead the full three-star reviewRawEdinburgh International Conference Centre (on 27 and 28 August)The Belgian dance-theatre company Kabinet K have a special magic when it comes to working with children, eliciting performances of rare naturalism and liveliness from kids as young as seven. In Raw they portray a world lived on the margins of society where children depend on their wits and their energy to survive. While the stage may look like a desolate wasteland of rubble, junk and dripping water, the cast of seven children and two adults transform it into their own colourful and ritualised playground, in this touching, clever and beautifully constructed show. JM