In the final scene of Twelfth Night, when the resemblance between fraternal twins Sebastian and Viola is discovered, Antonio can barely contain his astonishment. “How have you made division of yourself?” he exclaims. “An apple, cleft in two, is not more twin / Than these two creatures.”Many of us share Antonio’s fascination – and writers are no exception. Indeed, with identical twins playing supporting roles in everything from Ian McEwan’s Atonement to Through the Looking-Glass and the Harry Potter books, as well as taking centre stage in numerous classics and bestsellers, and even headlining Rome’s foundation myth, it is fair to say that they probably make up a rather larger proportion of the imaginary universe’s population than the roughly 0.4% they account for in real life. Given the success of recent books such as SK Tremayne’s The Ice Twins, this trend looks set to continue.Twins make good stories, all right. But the Antonio moment can only ever last a page or two. So what is it, beyond the initial double-take, that makes twinness such a powerful storytelling tool?As I found when writing my novel Beside Myself, about twins who swap places in a game and get trapped in the wrong lives when one of them refuses to swap back, the plotting possibilities of people who can switch places are enormous. Comedies such as Plautus’s Menaechmi and the play it is thought to have inspired, Shakespeare’s The Comedy of Errors, make rich capital of this, sending their characters on all manner of wild-goose chases. Meanwhile, mystery and thriller writers often exploit the mistaken-identity opportunities twins present to gripping effect, a great example being Diane Setterfield’s The Thirteenth Tale.Nevertheless, the potential of twins to unnerve (witness Stephen King’s The Shining) goes deeper than mere sleight of hand. For many authors, the mysterious and sometimes uncanny nature of the profound genetic and often experiential bond twins share is a rich theme. In her bestselling 2013 novel Sisterland, for example, US novelist Curtis Sittenfeld uses the possibility of a telepathic connection between twins as a way into exploring dysfunctional family life.In this, she taps into a long history of mystical, fantastic and sometimes sinister associations with identical siblings. These resonate in the changeling children of folklore – cuckoos in the nest placed by malevolent fairies – as well as the superstitions that historically led to infanticide in the case of multiple births in some parts of the world, as described in Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart. And let’s not forget the eerie notion of the doppelganger, that inscrutable, shadowy figure threatening to swoop in and take over a life. This idea of the delinquent double was perhaps most memorably portrayed in Robert Louis Stevenson’s Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde – although interestingly, despite sharing the same body, the title characters look strikingly dissimilar on close inspection.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alice meeting Tweedledum and Tweedledee inAlice Through the Looking-Glass (1872) . Illustration by John Tenniel. Courtesy of GettyIndeed, compelling though sameness is, it is only part of the equation when it comes to the most powerful presentations of twins. The way that difference manifests itself in two people dealt such ostensibly similar cards forms the nub of many of the best stories. Wally Lamb’s I Know this Much Is True, for example, follows Dominick as he attempts to do right by his identical twin brother Thomas, who has paranoid schizophrenia, and who cuts off his hand in a public library in protest at the 1990 Gulf war. Despite their effectively identical DNA (in recent years, scientists have shown that even monozygotic twins generally have a small number of unique genetic mutations), the two men have taken contrasting courses and we want to find out why.Books like this are intriguing because they allow the exploration of what might have been. By running two lives that started from the same point off along divergent tracks, they throw up questions about our uniqueness, and the chances and choices that make us who we are.In so doing, they point out the truth that Antonio unwittingly reveals even as he gasps at Viola and Sebastian’s likeness: that no people are ever truly identical. Just as one half of an apple may be larger, ruddier or even maggot-ridden, depending on its position on the tree, so two humans sprung from the same blastocyst will develop in response to their individual circumstances. When we look at twins, perhaps our amazement has less to do with their similarity than with what they show us about how easily we might have been different.• Beside Myself by Ann Morgan is published by Bloomsbury Circus (£12.99). To order a copy for £11.39, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.