A designer furniture website that promises top brands at discounted prices has left in limbo a trail of unhappy customers who are yet to receive their goods.Customers are still able to place orders with RetroFurnish.com, which lists an Edinburgh phone number, despite the firm failing to complete others taken in January. Frustrated buyers have been venting their anger on the company’s Trustpilot page. “No answer on email, telephone calls, chat, ... anything. I have been waiting 6 months for my furniture. I just get an email it’s - again – delayed. Worst experience ever,” wrote customer Thomas Van De Moortel. “Shocking company” wrote another.When Guardian Money called and emailed the firm this week, there was no reply either.Guardian reader Jason Stokes says he is still waiting for a sideboard ordered from the firm in January. “They have a slick website and still bombard me with special offers, but the item has not arrived. I was twice informed of delays and the most recent arrival date was indicated as late June. I contacted RetroFurnish by telephone (it only has an answer machine) and email. It only send automated responses with no detailed information. I have requested a refund twice – no mention of this is made in any response,” he said. On the Guardian’s advice he has now contacted his bank to ask it to make a chargeback of the money he paid. Customers who paid the company by credit card and have not received items should file a Section 75 claim against their card provider. Credit card firms have to reimburse customers who bought goods costing more than £100 that fail to arrive. Those who paid by debit card need to ask their bank to mount a chargeback, although they have fewer rights. There is a time limit on chargeback claims – typically 120 days. When this starts depends on the specific circumstances but will usually be from the day you become aware of a problem. Consumers using unknown websites to buy expensive items should always use a credit rather than debit card, and should never send a bank transfer to a firm they have never heard of. 