On 3 April 1976, a young art student called PT Madden positioned himself in front of a deserted stage at the Nashville, a music pub in London’s West Kensington. The place was nearly empty: as he remembers, “There was no audience apart from about 20 rocker types at the bar.” Moving aside the tables in the audience area, he braced himself against the back of a chair to create an ad hoc tripod, aimed his camera at the stage and waited for the object of his obsession.PT Madden was there to photograph the Sex Pistols. He had attended their very first show at St Martin’s College of Art in November 1975 and watched them alter the lyrics of the Small Faces’ What’cha Gonna Do Bout It? “They made me laugh when Rotten sang, ‘I want you to know that I hate you baby.’” After this initial encounter, he saw them again at the Marquee Club in February 1976: “That was the gig when I became fanatical about them after an irate French kid moaned, ‘But you can’t play!’ and Glen Matlock swaggered back with, ‘So what?’ I thought it was joyous.” The camera was a shield – with it held to my face I could easily out-stare Rotten The Sex Pistols were at the 100 Club on Oxford Street on 30 March 1976. “I was there before the doors were opened,” the photographer remembers. “I didn’t want to miss a nanosecond. What was interesting was what happened before and after the actual music. Also the silences and pauses between songs would go on for five minutes. My main memory is thinking, ‘This is extremely important. It is not like any other gig I have ever been to. It has an atmosphere of expectation which is totally exciting. This means something and there is no one here.’”“At that gig I became terrified they were going to implode after Rotten walked off stage in the middle of the set. The tension between the band members was so strong that as Rotten made his way up the club’s staircase, Steve Jones placed his right hand under all his guitar strings and then, in one astonishing movement, ripped them right off the guitar and stood holding them in pure and total anger like he had ripped all the hair from his head. I gasped, and thought, ‘If they split up I want something to remember them by so I can recreate this experience.’”“The worry prompted me to seek out my tutor the next day and ask him to show me how to operate a 35mm camera so I could take photos at the Nashville. If they split up at that gig I would have my photographic time-travel machine. I had never used a 35mm camera before, mainly because the cost of a roll of film equalled the weekly rent of my Camden Road bedsit.”Arriving early at the venue, he asked the band’s manager, Malcolm McLaren, for permission to take photographs: “I remember the Pistols dragging in their gear and a nervous Joe Strummer standing next to me watching them.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pub band … Joe Strummer (left) with his band the 101ers, which the Sex Pistols were supporting at the gig. Photograph: Julian Yewdall/Getty ImagesOn 3 April, the Sex Pistols were supporting Strummer’s band the 101ers, one of the up-and-coming groups in the London pub rock scene. It was the Sex Pistols’ second appearance at the venue, but they were not yet a draw: although they’d had a few press mentions – including Neil Spencer’s review of their Marquee show in the NME – they had no advertisements, no major feature, no record company backing.Heavily styled in McLaren and Westwood designs from the Sex boutique at 430 Kings Road, the Sex Pistols looked like nobody else. Strummer later recalled: “At the Nashville I walked out on stage while they were getting their sound check together and I heard Malcolm going to John, ‘Do you want those kind of shoes that Steve’s got, or the kind that Paul’s got? What sort of sweater do you want?’, and I thought, ‘Blimey, they’ve got a manager, and he’s offering them clothes!’ To me it was incredible.”While the group ran through their set – a few originals and covers of 60s songs by Dave Berry, the Who and the Small Faces – PT Madden shot two rolls of film. “I didn’t change position during the entire gig: I only sat down after I took the last shot.”“I was tense and alert throughout, watching all four members at the same time. I never understood that myth that they couldn’t play: the music was actually quite motorik and once they got going, the timing was impeccable. Later I discovered there are quite a few shots where Rotten is staring at me, Cook is staring with bemused curiosity, and Jones poses away like a guitar hero – more or less saying, ‘Go on then – take my photo.’ I think they thought it was weird that someone was taking photographs. Now at any gig everyone takes photos but back then no one did.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sex Pistols’ manager, Malcolm McLaren, in his Kings Road boutique Sex inDecember 1976. Photograph: Express/Getty Images“I suppose the camera was like a shield – with it held to my face I could quite easily out-stare Rotten. But in fact I believe Rotten wanted to be photographed. You can see he is giving me some of his finest work – I like the shot of him kneeling down exhausted and staring at the camera. At one point in the set he introduced Problems by glaring at me and saying. ‘Hello, Paul, you’re my problem.’ I had long hair. I giggled and kept the camera to my eye.”Of the two rolls, only 26 photos remain: the first roll was destroyed during the developing process. The shots are simple, basic, without filters; the group are presented in black and white, against a flat background – a simple curtain. There are no flashing lights, no stage design, nothing but amplifier and small speakers, clothes left hurriedly on the floor.The Sex Pistols are simply there, running through the poses and the movements that would soon become familiar. The most immediate visual hook is the clothes. All three in the frontline are wearing T-shirts from Sex: Rotten covers his with a small, ripped-up sweater that he removes mid-set. Both he and Steve Jones wear teddy boy-era brothel creepers, while Glen Matlock sports a pair of handmade painted trousers.They look young but defined. Matlock, it is plain to see, keeps the group going – the motivator and the grounding force. But it is Rotten who catches the eye, constantly in motion: at once imperious and unsure, stiff and highly animated. He crouches on the floor, blows his nose, and fixes the photographer with an unmistakable glare.Taken as a whole, the photographs recapture what it was like to stumble upon the Sex Pistols in early April 1976. Stewart Joseph, later the co-manager of Generation X, remembers walking into the Nashville that night:“They had buckets full of attitude and grabbed my attention. They knew what they were doing, or at least trying to do. Young, raw and angry. They kept it simple and they had a genuine musical vocabulary. They were unlike any other support band and I recall saying they were like a ticking time bomb.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The infamous interview with Bill GrundyIt was clear that this was a whole new thing. As Strummer remembered: “They did their set, and that was it for me. The difference was, we played Route 66 to the drunks at the bar, going, ‘Please like us.’ But here was this quartet who were standing there going, ‘We don’t give a toss what you think, you pricks – this is what we like to play, and this is the way we’re gonna play it, regardless of whether you like it or not.’ They were on another planet, in another century. It took my head off.”Within three weeks of the gig, the journalist Jonh Ingham placed a double-page spread in the weekly music paper Sounds - the first big interview with the group, designed to read like a manifesto. It ran the day after the Sex Pistols were involved in a fight with the audience at their third show at the Nashville: this occasioned sensational coverage – based around a reader’s letter sent to the NME by future Pet Shop Boy Neil Tennant – and sealed the association of the group with violence.John Lydon at 60 – a life in pictures The Sex Pistols were on their way, but PT Madden did not exhibit or sell his pictures. They were not conceived as rock photography and were thus not distributed to the music magazines.The Sex Pistols came to national attention that December, thanks to a profanity-filled TV interview with Bill Grundy. But, says PT Madden, “It was all over for me. I had seen them over a year before and I’d grown tired of asking people to come and see them.” He turned his back on punk and sought a different subject: “I became interested in photographing car journeys made as a passenger across London in order to map my existence.” The Pistols photographs were stashed under his bed and remained hidden for the ensuing decades.Last year, PT Madden was interviewed for an oral history of punk by Colin Fallows, professor of sound and visual arts at Liverpool John Moores University, who immediately realised the value of his images. They decided to show the 26 photos, as one artwork, to mark the 40th anniversary of the Nashville show. Unseen for so many years, they have all the force of a revelation, one that takes you back to a moment of latency before the Sex Pistols were fixed: when they were, as Fallows writes, “a group of young artists in the momentary process of becoming”.Sex Pistols - April 1976: The Art of PT Madden is at the Wilkinson Gallery, London, from 15 April.