When a TV sports presenter introduces the running of the Queen Victoria Stakes at Epsom, in a celebrated Monty Python sketch, the starting gates open to release not horses but numerous versions of the monarch who reigned over the United Kingdom from 1837 to 1901. Among British queens, only Elizabeths I and II are as instantly recognisable as Victoria: at least as she was in old age – a stout, sour-faced widow in clouds of funereal fabric. But this fixed image of her has allowed TV producers – up to and including Victoria, which starts on ITV on Sunday – to invite double-takes by subverting the expected age or even gender of the performers, as shown by this top 10 of broadcast Victorias.10. Michael Palin (BBC, 1974)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Palin as Queen Victoria, who is accompanied at all times by the coffin of her dead prince. Photograph: BBCApart from the Queen Victoria Handicap gag, the monarch also turned up in Michael Ellis, one of the few Python episodes with a full-length storyline, with Palin giving a memorable cross-dressing performance as the widowed queen. Mourning Albert so deeply that she at times speaks with a Germanic accent, she is also, daringly, accompanied at all times by the upright wheeled coffin of her dead prince. 9. Perlita Neilson (BBC, 1974) Why Britain’s psyche is gripped by a different kind of royal fever Queen Victoria had a glide-on part in this 13-part BBC epic about European history in the 60 years before the first world war, marrying off a daughter to secure peace with Prussia. This portrayal is notable for its accents: Neilson’s Victoria sounds modern middle-class while the Albert of Frank Thornton (simultaneously appearing as Captain Peacock in Are You Being Served?) is a purring English toff without a Germanic trace.8. Robert Webb (BBC, 2009)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In a sketch that combines a homage to the Python drag-acts with serious cleverness of its own, the double-act behind That Mitchell and Webb Look play prime minister Benjamin Disraeli and his Queen, receiving a gift of a Linden tree from the American ambassador. Her Majesty’s obsession that the blossom smells like semen drives a brilliant idea about Victoria not living up to Victorian values. 7. Rosemary Leach (ITV, 1978)Perhaps because she was considered an untouchable or unpromising character, Victoria’s appearances in British TV drama have generally been in biographies of other historical figures. In this history of Disraeli’s political career, Leach plays Victoria in stout, plain-faced early middle-age, although sometimes casting flirty, giggly glances at her husband. Leach also makes the monarch sound strikingly like her great-great-granddaughter, Elizabeth II.6. Victoria Hamilton (BBC, 2001)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hamilton in Victoria and Albert, which kickstarted the current Victoriana trend. Photograph: A & E Network ProductionVictoria and Albert, a two-part US-UK co-production, kickstarted the current trend – continued by the Julian Fellowes movie The Young Victoria and now the new ITV series – to banish images of the Queen as a bombazine barrage-balloon and show her as a frisky young woman. Highlights of Hamilton’s performance include the scene in which Victoria, due to her rank, has to propose to Albert.5. Prunella Scales (BBC, 2001)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Severe and stately, Prunella Scales gave a definitive depiction of Victoria in her last years. Photograph: BBCIn the same year as Hamilton’s portrayal (it was the centenary of the queen’s death), Scales gave a definitive depiction of Victoria in her late days – severe, stately and adored – in Station Jim, a drama in which a dog saves the Empress of India from an attempted assassination at a railway station.4. Pauline Collins (BBC, 2006) For the second episode of the second series of the revived Doctor Who, David Tennant’s Doctor and Billie Piper’s Rose were accidentally diverted to Balmoral in 1879. Collins embodied the classic image of the widowed monarch – black-clad rugby-ball torso, hair in bun with fancy headdress – in a story with a nice running gag in which Rose, for a bet, has to trick the queen into saying: “We are not amused.”3. Jenna Coleman (ITV, 2016)Jenna Coleman: ‘I’m northern and working class, so people put you in a box’ The opening moments of ITV’s Victoria twice subvert the classic image of the gloomy grandmatriarch. Coleman, 29, is seen first in a white nightdress and then, as she has been put on the throne by the death of her uncle, in mourning clothes, but slender, attractive and, above all, sassy. “I can manage alone”, the first line screenwriter Daisy Goodwin gives Coleman, sets the tone for the portrayal of an independent-minded proto-feminist who sounds and looks like a modern young woman. 2. Annette Crosbie (ITV, 1975) Although the series was called Edward VII, Crosbie received top billing and won a Bafta award for the 10 (out of 13) episodes that dealt with Edward’s early years, in which Victoria was a dominant figure. Aged 30 at the time, Crosbie was among the first actresses to go against stereotype in playing the young Victoria, lamenting that her passion for Albert results in such frequent pregnancies. Crosbie’s queen is posh, stroppy – and very often sensual. 1. Miriam Margolyes (BBC, 1988)Blackadder’s Christmas Carol, a seasonal special of the mock-historical franchise, begins in Victorian London, with Rowan Atkinson as an alternative Scrooge, famed for his virtue. In a sub-plot, Queen Victoria and Prince Albert (Jim Broadbent) descend among their subjects on Christmas Eve. Carrying an orb and sceptre at all times, Margolyes gives a mistress-class in cameo comic acting, creating a mischievous, filthy-minded Victoria entirely the opposite of the perpetual widow archetype.Victoria starts on Sunday at 9pm on ITV. 