Electricity generated by hydropower accounts for 78% of the world's renewable power generation. This means that, in addition to producing less emissions than any other energy source, hydropower produces four times as much power as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal combined. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), hydropower will produce 17% of the total global electricity supply by 2030.Dams are an ancient and robust technology that for millennia have helped people manage water reserves for agriculture. Two thousand years ago, the Greeks were also using the mechanical power of falling water to turn wheels and mill wheat to produce flour.But even today, irrigation remains the major purpose of dams. Only 25% of the 45,000 large dams around the world are used to produce electricity. The majority were built to create clean water reservoirs, to control floods and provide navigation services.As greenhouse gas emissions drive climate change, floods and other extreme weather phenomena are likely to become the norm in the coming decades. "When facing the climate adaptation challenge, hydropower plants can make a precious resource to manage water, prevent damages from extreme weather and regulate irrigation systems," says Richard M Taylor, executive director at the International Hydropower Association.The IHA is a non-profit organisation representing the hydropower sector, with members from 80 countries. With the involvement of companies, governments, NGOs, financial institutions and academia, it deals with sustainable hydropower development and water management.After an earlier career as an environmental scientist, Taylor's life and passion have been "very much focused on hydropower and on the contribution you can make through it. It's not only about energy, but also about water management and climate mitigation. These three things come together quite neatly with hydropower."In terms of efficiency and productivity, hydropower stands out among all the other renewables. Unlike other clean technologies, however, hydropower has a profound and widespread effect on the local environment.Together with the World Bank and other international institutions, the IHA is drawing up new guidelines for more environmentally and socially responsible hydropower, with a special focus on the social dimension. "When getting in touch with local communities, you will meet political and social groups with different needs and priorities. You will deal with many cultural issues, from religion to gender, that you need to understand and respect," Taylor says.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Every new plant will bring debate and often conflicts with local communities. For example, the Three Gorges project in China – the world's biggest dam and biggest power plant, built at the turn of the century for energy production and to reduce the risk of floods in the Yangtze river basin – looked like an impeccable plan on paper. But it involved the resettlement of 1.2 million people, many of whom weren't provided with a new home.The IPPC concedes that the environmental and social impacts of hydropower technologies have yet to be resolved. In addition to the negative environmental impacts, the benefits in terms of economic development and energy supply are not always fairly shared by local communities.Hence, every project needs to provide a tangible payback for people affected by the operation, especially those forced to move, says Taylor. Among the options he lists are building new hospitals, schools or transport infrastructure, as well as providing clean water and a cheap energy supply."In the future, hydropower needs to become largely socially driven," he says. "First of all, you need to work out why you're doing it. Do you need to bring electricity where there is none? Or is it needed on an industrial scale?"This will determine the type of turbine that can be used. "But when you're first breaking the ground and bringing electricity to a community for the first time, your ultimate goal won't be an immediate return in terms of energy efficiency, but to make development happen. "Even a limited electricity supply will be a first step to initiate local industry and provide people with basic goods to improve their health, such as cookers and drinking water."