That green Versace dress that Jennifer Lopez wore to the Grammys in 2000, the one that exposed her from chest to navel, is in a glass case just outside the entrance to the Axis Theatre in Las Vegas’s Planet Hollywood hotel. Mothers are making their daughters pose in front of this famous piece of clothing as if it is Joseph’s Technicolor Dreamcoat. Soon they’ll enter a chamber that is situated to the right of Planet Hollywood’s Britney Spears-branded slot machines. Awaiting them is two hours of razzle, dazzle, and world-class pizzazzle as singer/actress/creator-of-many-perfumes Jennifer Lopez proves that she’s the hardest-working superstar in showbiz. Tonight’s outfits are so heavily encrusted in diamonds they’re almost light-emitting. Arena-prowling laser beams and fiery, salsa-timed explosions add to the full-sensory experience, one that proves Lopez as the triple threat to contend with.Jennifer Lopez and the changing face of Las Vegas It would be obvious to pit Lopez against Spears as the challenger to the latter’s two-year reign on the Strip; surely there’s room for both hit machines. Besides, Lopez has been publicly supportive of her former pop peer. It would also be inaccurate to suggest Lopez is here because she has nowhere left to go – she’s a judge on American Idol and has never stopped being a lucrative subject for endorsements galore. While it might be hard to fathom at first, the New York native would have you believe that All I Have, a Vegas residency currently booked for 20 dates, was the plan all along. “I’ve been preparing for this my whole life,” Lopez told the press some weeks ago. Starting life as a Fly Girl backing dancer, then eventually breaking through on film with biopic Selena and releasing her debut record On the 6 in 1999, Lopez has become the most influential Latina performer in America with over 60m record sales to her name. This evening, the dance floor is shaped as a giant J Lo, a stage for her alone. The first thing that hits you is the sheer exhiliration of her dancing, which comprises roughly equal parts Michael Jackson-inspired street dance, Latin hustle and Lopez’s signature ass-shaking – she was once rumoured to have insured her derriere for $1m. On the basis of tonight’s display it seems like a bargain. It’s glorious to watch her gyrate, pop and head-bang to her vivid live band. It’s not that Lopez never misses a beat, the beats never miss her – her body leads the music all night.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Lopez: she never misses a beat all night. Photograph: Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesIt’s the fearlessness she exhibits onstage, however, that shows she’s not satisfied to rest purely on raw talent. And despite executing every single pop as if she’s taking her final exam at Juilliard, she throws all of her signature diva personality and humour into the set. Few performers have ever changed furs midway through the first number, but J Lo does. “Vegas, there’s a new girl in town,” she announced, after a dazzling opening with her early hit If You Had My Love.The first third of the show is gasp-inducing, running through Love Don’t Cost A Thing and moving into jazz (including a rendition of Lot of Livin’ from musical Bye Bye Birdie) backed by a full dance troupe executing Bob Fosse-style routines. Get Right sees every body pop accompanied by a pyro explosion. The first section also boasts a New York skyline, a live scratching DJ, and a shout-out “representing the Bronx!” as J Lo returns to the stage in sequined pink trousers hanging off the front of a 6 subway train, which she rode every day as a young starlet. Ja Rule makes the first of two guest appearances; Pitbull and R&B crooner Ne-Yo also appear. By the time we get to the low-slung R&B of Feelin’ So Good and a baseball bat-swinging rendition of signature tune Jenny From the Block, Vegas seems hip enough for a Drake residency sometime in the near future.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Lopez – she’ll get her coat. Photograph: Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesAny concerns about how can she still breathe are taken care of swiftly when Lopez demands: “Let’s change the mood, it’s too thuggy in here.” The downtempo part of the show begins with Lopez changing her footwear via a shoe closet under the stage. A neon Sin City backdrop prepares a lingerie-clad J Lo for an intimate boogie with a chaise longue, which culminates in her somersaulting over it like a gymnast on a pommel horse. Moments later she’s in a gown, dedicating ballad Feel the Light to “my coconuts, as I affectionately like to call them”. Those are her kids, Max and Emme. Lopez’s ability to shift from sex symbol to girl-next-door has defined her career and is intact tonight.Despite the hammy slow middle section (understandable given she does bust a gut for a solid hour prior), the final third exalts Lopez to her absolute element. Singing in Spanish, backed by the Latin drums of her players, her voice towers through numbers including the Latin version of mambo classic Sway and her own hit Let’s Get Loud. She salsas, she rumbas, she ducks and dives behind the moving feathers of her fellow ballroom dancers as trumpets hover just above the floorboards. “I’m a fan of all types of music,” she explains before one last push over the finishing line. A hyper-futuristic EDM assault course of Waiting For Tonight and Get on the Floor see the audience in rapture. Tonight, Lopez promised to give us all she had. Via a catalogue spanning many genres, flavours and dance moves, she delivered a heck of a party. To borrow from her 2001 smash hit Play: that’s the hotness right there.