When Beyoncé released her “visual album” Lemonade on HBO earlier this year, many people were stunned by its ambition, its lack of a promo campaign and its visual impact.But what if instead of pulling that hot sauce out of her bag she pulled out a can of magical spray paint that transported viewers to a fantasy world? A world where she participated in a space fight with an evil dimensional overlord, lay on the beach with Game of Thrones’ Nathalie Emmanuel, and watched Reggie Watts simultaneously play all of the world’s instruments while bathed in the many colors of the rainbow. Virtual Reality: the immersive film-making wowing Sundance All of that and the viewer feels like it is happening right in front of her eyes.  Watt’s virtual reality (or VR as the kids call it) music video Waves does happen right in front of the viewers’ eyes and every time they move their heads they get a new perspective of the action, as if they’re actually part of that universe.Waves is one of four videos presented at Sundance earlier this year by Wevr, a California-based VR studio that is trying to revolutionize emerging immersive technology, and have focused much of their first experiments on music videos. “The thing about music is it in general is a perfect medium without visuals,” says Anthony Batt, co-founder and executive vice-president of content at Wevr. “If you can put yourself inside of a music experience, when you’re 100% covered with the artist’s music and another artist’s interpretation of the music, we thought those two worlds colliding is great way to achieve something remarkable. I want to explore that as an art form, and create the next generation moments that is something everyone will talk about.” There are plenty of those moments in Waves, which is less of a music video and more of a picaresque journey through a color-saturated dream world where the viewer doesn’t know what environment he’ll be schlepping through next, from a surreal forest to an 80s Atari video game. “We’re huge fans of Reggie Watts and he’s brilliant wherever you see him, live or on the radio,” Batt says. “We put you and Reggie in a place where you could never be, surround you in it but not overwhelm you, and let you be fully immersed in a Reggie Watts routine … This is better than you watching something in a little YouTube window.” The advent of shared videos on the internet has been a boon to the music video, which saw a dip in interest during the 90s when MTV aired less of them and more original programming. Wevr’s video for Run the Jewels’ Crown is like a traditional music video you could see on YouTube, with the band and others rapping the lyrics to the song. But it not only creates a mood, it creates a feeling, surrounding the viewer in a pitch black world that seems dangerous and scary, with soldiers spitting rhymes not inches away from the screen, but inches away from the viewers’ faces. Wevr has also worked on some more ambitious projects, like a live VR recording of the Broadway musical Once; filming an immersive version of the band Above and Beyond’s Madison Square Garden concert; and an “aspirational voyeurism” experiment with the DJ collective We Did It that allows viewers to wander through different rooms of a house party hearing different DJs spinning in each room. One of their crowning achievements is a video called Old Friend where animator Tyler Hurd created a CGI rendering of a dance circle to the Future Islands’ song and viewers can see their own dance movements woven into the experience. Right now more and more artists are getting involved in making VR videos for songs, everyone from Björk to Muse. U2 created some experiences and posted it to Facebook and showed it off in a bus outside the gigs on a recent tour. Paul McCartney joined up with the VR app Jaunt to create a series of videos explaining the stories behind some of his biggest hits. Since not everyone has a VR headset at home or doesn’t want to fiddle with one of Google’s affordable cardboard viewers, these videos can still be see on a flat screen as a “360 video” in which the mouse can shift the focus so viewers can get different perspectives on the footage. According to Batt, this means making a VR video make economical sense even though the accompanying technology doesn’t have market penetration yet. “If you look at the economy of scale, through a business lens, you can make this video and you get all the upside of future play as more people get VR headsets, but you can take advantage of all the views on YouTube if you release this as a 360 video,” he says. “In other words, there is no reason why someone like Rihanna can’t release the video as a 360 video and get her billion views even though not everyone wants to see it in a headset.”But it’s not going to be long before everyone is looking like that guy in The Lawnmower Man with their face strapped to fancy looking goggles. According to research firm Tractica, spending on virtual reality content and hardware will increase from $108m in 2014 to $21.8bn worldwide by 2020. That’s why so many companies, including tech giants like Facebook and Google are investing billions into this emerging market now. And so is Wevr. In February they raised $25m from venture capital firms to create Wevr Transport, where VR creators can post their footage and fans can watch it. It’s basically a YouTube for the fully immersive experience. All of this seems to point to the fact that musicians, so often the arbiters of cool, are going to get into this budding technology and push it toward the mainstream. Once it gets to Taylor Swift and Justin Bieber, there will be no stopping people rushing out to get their own headsets and figuring out how to watch these videos. Let’s just hope the next generation can be as shockingly original as Lemonade. 