Welcome to this week’s blog. Here’s a roundup of your comments and photos from last week, with fantastic letter collections (a recurring theme lately), magic thrillers and very easily readable – one reader assures us – two-thousand-page trilogies.NatashaFatale earned all our admiration by finishing Anatoly Rybakov’s Stalin trilogy, “which is basically a single 1800-page novel. That sounds daunting but it isn’t at all”:Yevtushenko said of one the books that it reads like a detective story, and that’s exactly right. Not in that it’s a mystery – how could it be? – but in that it moves like a very good one. It fairly races along. So if you could see yourself reading six good mysteries in a row ... I stayed lucky with Peter Brown’s The Ransom of the Soul. It simply never occurred to me before how much early Christianity had in common with the Egyptian Book of the Dead. Could have used an editor in a couple of places; the defects are minor but the writing would be near-perfect if they’d been caught, so I grumble.  ‘Sometimes you need another perspective...even about home,” sharedmathiri. Photograph: GuardianWitnessWe saw lots of Steinbeck chat, including annieohoh’s praise for East of Eden: I have always steered clear of Steinbeck, however, for my book club, I am reading ‘East of Eden’. Just love it. Only half way through, but what a book! The writing about the human condition speaks to me in many ways. My favourite characters so far are Samuel and Lee. Philosophers and boy, do they think! PS. Never seen the film and I don’t want to.Jenny Bhatt is reading Seneca’s Letters from a Stoic and coming to interesting present-day conclusions: Don’t ask me why. I just felt like I needed some of that kind of no-nonnsense advice to start 2016. He writes in epigrams mostly, which can get tiring. And, when he starts railing against the luxury of bathroom fixtures, it does get a bit much. But, for the most part, a lot of what he says is good advice for any age. You take what applies to you. I did enjoy, very much, what he had to say about friendship – a very different concept to how we approach it these days. And, I wondered how he would have responded to social media friendships – they would have faced a rant worse than bathroom fixtures, I think.VelmaNebraska recommended Lauren Beukes’s Zoo City, “a sassy and innovative, dirty and sparkly novel set in an alternative contemporary South Africa”:Her protagonist, Zinzi December, is one of the “animalled” who live in the eponymous slum – this means that she did something bad enough in her past to be mysteriously tethered with a psychic connection to an animal for the rest of her life (in her case, a sloth). This is a thriller with magic, and great fun to read. While the narrative itself is sometimes choppy and left me slightly stranded at times, trying to figure out what exactly was going on and how we suddenly got here, the characters and settings and scenarios are fantastically drawn.Interesting links about books and readingComic: Literary Witches: an illustrated account of literary witches, from Emily Brontë to Virginia Woolf, in Okey-Panky.Meeting Death with Words: a New Yorker essay on why “memoirs rarely tremble with such life as when expressing their author’s death.” 11-Year-Old ‘Sick of Reading About White Boys and Dogs’ Launches #1000BlackGirlBooks: “I’m hoping to show that other girls can do this as well. I used the resources I was given, and I want people to pass that down and use the things they’re given to create more social action projects—and do it just for fun, and not make it feel like a chore.” On Jezebel.Saul Bellow’s Last Interview: “I began to visit him each Wednesday. It was sort of like Tuesdays with Morrie, except Botsford would blow smoke into the vents, tell me not to have sex with American girls (advice I studiously ignored), and impart lasting writing advice.” The story behind the author’s last interview, with added video. On Hazlitt. Family Business: David Lipsky writes about the Nabokovs in his review of Letters to Véra, which collects Vladimir Nabokov’s letters to his wife of fifty-two years, for Harper’s Magazine.Sign up to our Bookmarks newsletter If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading, “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here.And, as always, if you have any suggestions for topics you’d like to see us covering beyond TLS, do let us know.