Over the past 50 years, the larch forests clinging to dizzyingly steep mountain sides have become a familiar feature of the south Wales coalmining valleys. But the chainsaws are buzzing, the timber lorries trundling and contractors have started the painstaking process of felling more than 6m diseased trees.Large areas of Wales have been infected by larch disease, Phytophthora ramorum, which spreads through air currents, mists, and even raindrops, from tree to tree. The Welsh government has ordered Natural Resources Wales to fell infected trees, a multimillion pound project that is likely to last until 2020.The work is focused on the Cwmcarn Forest, just north of Newport in south-east Wales, an area popular with hikers, mountain bikers and day-trippers who liked to drive or cycle its unique winding seven-mile Forest Drive.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Logs stacked up in Cwmcarn Forest ready for collection. The fungus-like phytophthora ramorum was first identified in Britain in 2002 and discovered in Wales in 2010. Photograph: Dimitris Legakis/Athena Pictures“It is sad that we have to fell so many infected trees,” said Andy Schofield, regional lands manager for Natural Resources Wales. He said it had been difficult persuading people that such drastic measures were necessary but added that he preferred to look on the bright side. “It does provide us with an opportunity to replace the larches with a range of resilient, native broad-leaf woodland trees, as well as more commercial timber producing trees, such as spruce,” he said.Larches were chosen in places like Cwmcarn because they grow so well on the steep slopes and because their timber could be used in the mines for pit props. They thrived until the fungus-like Phytophthora ramorum arrived. It was first identified in Britain in 2002 but few trees were affected until 2009 when it was found to have infected Japanese larch trees in south-west England. In 2010, it was discovered in Wales.More than 160,000 larch trees will be felled around the Cwmcarn Forest Drive area over the next 18 months to two years. The tricky terrain means that every tree has to be felled by hand and then winched up to the drive. The process is labour-intensive and expensive. About 2,000 lorry loads of larch timber will be removed from here to a saw mill in mid-Wales designated to process the diseased timber. It will be used to make furniture and fibreboard.Schofield said the idea then was to allow “natural regeneration” – standing back and letting nature put the right trees in the right places, but there is likely to be some “enrichment planting” of species such as beech, rowan and oak. Having a variety of trees should lead to richer habitats and mean the valleys are no longer susceptible to being so badly hit by disease. Most local people appear to accept that the larches have to go but there is huge concern about the beloved Forest Drive. Hiking and mountain bike trails – and the impressive visitor centre – will remain open while the trees are felled but the drive is closed because the contractors need a solid, flat base to work from and winch the trees to. Natural Resources Wales accepts that the work will probably wreck the road and says that in these cash-strapped times there is no budget to restore it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A harvester machine clearing felled trees in Cwmcarn, a forest famous for its mountain biking trails. Photograph: Dimitris Legakis/Athena PicturesThat could mean the permanent loss of access to the mountain top – with soaring views over the Bristol Channel to the south and Brecon Beacons to the north for those who cannot walk or cycle there – which includes many older people who are in ill-health because they used to work in the pits. Almost 5,000 people have joined a Facebook site Campaign to Save Cwmcarn Forest Drive.“It’s wonderful up there,” said Maggie Thomas, the Caerphilly correspondent for the Open Spaces Society. “You would see everyone from elderly people on a bench huddled under a blanket to little ones taken up there by childminders.”Thomas said the valley floors with their red-brick terraces are not classically lovely, adding: “People rave about places like the Wye Valley but up there it’s absolutely magnificent. It would be a shame if that is lost to many people.”