Fleet Street, FridayThe public inquiry into the County of London Plan came to life to-day. The conference room at County Hall was, compared with previous days, crowded with the public, objectors, lawyers, and experts. The basic problem before the planners is where the British Museum should put its books so that they are easily available.There are about six million books in the library on seventy-five miles of shelves – to say nothing of the music, the maps, and the stamps. The statutory obligation of the British under the Copyright Act, to receive and store a copy of every publication, means that 1¼ miles of new shelving is needed every year.The repute and renown of the reading-room entitles it, the trustees consider, to new and better facilities. There should be, said the principal keeper, Mr Oldman, special reading-rooms for rare books, for maps, for periodicals, rooms for consulting microfilms and other special purposes.Sir Patrick Abercrombie’s London plan of 1943 did not provide for any extensions to the British Museum, but in 1947 the London County council was asked by the Minister of Works to designate a specified site for a National Central Library. This site covers 7½ acres between Bloomsbury Square, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury Street, and Bloomsbury Way.Sir Thomas Kendrick, Director and Principal Librarian of the British Museum said it would be disastrous for the standard of scholarship associated with the British Museum for the books to be moved away from its collection of antiquities.This was too much for Mr Heathcote Williams, and the presiding inspector was indulgent of the applause that followed his attacks on the use of the word “disastrous.” It was no disaster that the great libraries of Oxford and Cambridge had no museums with them. The heat of battle rose “What have you done,” asked Mr Heathcote Williams very sternly of Sir Thomas with the land that was acquired – over 3½ acres – as a matter of urgency in 1894 for the extension of the museum? How much of it have you used “About a third.” “And what,” even more sternly, “are you doing with the rest? Drawing rents from it? “yes”Counsel shook his head, more in sorrow than in anger, and the crowd came as near a whistle of disapproval as is possible in the chilling marble austerity of County Hall.The odds seem to shorten on the objectors. Mr Heathcote Williams offered helpful suggestions for other sites – sites where there were not over a thousand people living, 32 publishers, and many specialised shops.And lest he seem a Philistine, Mr Heathcote Williams pointed out that nobody, through him, was denying the need of the British Museum for expansion. The quarrel whether the museum and the vast library should be geographically indivisible or whether, even at the cost of a little inconvenience, there could not be some division - either by developing the library in South Kensington or using the Bloomsbury buildings for the library.The extraordinary feature of this battle of the books is that it is not a clear clash of private and public interest. Many of the objectors are men and women whose lives are devoted to the production and selling of books, people who keep the special little book shops around Museum Street, which are part of the life and breath of this neighbourhood. It is a fantastic booklovers’ battle, but a truce is called for the weekend - until ten o’clock on Monday morning.