Even by Walford standards, EastEnders is as dark as Shirley’s soul at the moment. Stacey’s been sectioned. Phil’s boozing so much he’ll be brown bread by the end of the year. And Shabnam, who took ages to move from a miserable itch of a character to a strong, lovable regular, has left the Square for good after finding out her husband Kush is Stace’s babydaddy.So thank the gods of soap for Kim and Denise Fox. Those foxy sisters bring joy in tough times: they’re strong, they bleed sass and, oh yes, they have lived. Denise escaped the boring clutches of becoming Mrs Ian Beale and Kim gave birth to a baby she’d conceived in a cruise ship hot tub in the Queen Vic toilets. She’s the kind of woman who uses baby Pearl’s formula when she runs out of milk. Resourceful doesn’t begin to cover it.But this month poor Denise was forlorn, feeling “like a square wheel on a bicycle” with everyone but her getting it on. Even Patrick got a date. Yet that was nothing compared to the unbridled lust Denise stumbled upon at her gaff.When she arrived home unannounced, she found Kim trussed up as a saucy French maid with a naked Vincent (brilliantly played by Richard “One-two-three-four, Get With The Wicked” Blackwood) on the sofa. “Kim confiscated my clothes,” protested Vincent. The can of whipped cream hanging its head in shame on the coffee table told a different story. “You put them cushion covers in the wash,” raged Denise. “I don’t want to catch nothing off you.”There was drama over at the Beales’ (no change there), as baby-faced murderer Bobby was shipped off out of the Square, taking the dregs of the “Who killed Lucy?” storyline with him. He’s been sent down for a long stretch. Not to prison, though. Instead, Ian and Jane did what any right-thinking parent would do if they found out their son had killed his stepsister: they packed him off to private school.Those ’Enders kids are busy: Nancy and Tamwar opened a pop-up fish finger sarnie restaurant in the launderette and Abi dropped the mother of all Valentine’s bombshells, bringing the Queen Vic to a standstill by wearing a “Baby Mitchell On Board” T-shirt. Great news, apart from the fact that her boyfriend Ben was about to go public about “doing the Hokey Cokey” with Les the undertaker’s grandson, Paul. Awkward!Coronation Street: battle lines are being drawn      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cleaning up… Jenny Bradley in Coronation StreetOver in Coronation Street, the battle lines were drawn as Jenny Bradley returned and that moral guardian of thong manufacturing Sally made it her mission to drive her out of town. Jenny was last seen being carted off by the police after trying to kidnap Kevin’s little boy, Jack, but she’s been through therapy and is now Underworld’s new cleaner. Sally rules that knicker factory and she’s not letting Bradders on her turf. “She’s like a fly, buzzing round my head,” complained Jenny, with a sinister edge. “You know what happens to flies, don’t you? They get swatted.”Still, Rita will always stand by Jenny, despite the fact that the young scamp once tried to drain her bank account. Sally’s having none of it. “The rehabilitation of Jenny Bradley,” she ranted. “Talk about delusions of grandeur.” Actually, that could be the title of Sally’s autobiography, especially now she’s got ambitions to get on the council.“You’re no Mother Teresa, Rita. You work in a sweet shop,” Sally grandly monologued in front of the entire Rovers. “Don’t come crying to me when she’s smothered you in your bed for your pension book.”Stranger things have happened. Especially to Eva, who enjoyed her finest moment when she turned up at the world’s worst dinner party in a show-stopping dress more suited to the red carpet, and belted out Hey Big Spender with a wiggle to the assembled.“Would you like a pashmina?” ventured the host. “Yeah, I’ll drink anything,” she replied. Not to be outdone in the intelligence stakes, Aidan chipped in: “Actually, make that two. No ice.” If this were ’Enders, Nancy and Tamwar would have jumped on the trend and opened an after-hours pashmina pop-up bar in Roy’s Rolls within minutes.Emmerdale: chipmunk man becomes web sensation      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   What’s been seen cannot be unseen… Gabby gets an eyeful in EmmerdaleShock and giggles reverberated in Emmerdale as Kerry and Dan’s video of an intimate nature went viral. “It’s illegal in some parts of the world and it’s on the internet,” warned Moira, who’d clearly pressed repeat more than once. Even Kerry – basically an episode of Geordie Shore in female form – was embarrassed, though mainly for her sparring partner. “You should be more ashamed than me,” she told Dan. “Because they’ve all seen your chipmunk face.”In other extramarital news, doughboy-faced vet Paddy’s affair with duplicitous teacher Tess came to a brutal end. Paddy-watchers had long been waiting for Tess to turn bunny boiler. Or cow boiler. Any animal, as long as she boils it. Sadly, she didn’t live to tell Rhona what she’d been up to with her husband, as drunk driver Kirin ran her over, but now Rhona’s going to wonder why Paddy’s grieving over someone he barely knew. Well, they are very close in that village.