What’s the name of this show? Second ChanceWhen does it premiere? The first episode is available to stream on Fox.com right now and it airs on Wednesday 13 January at 9pm EST. What’s this show about? It’s essentially an update of Frankenstein into a buddy-cop show. Wasn’t this called something else? First it was named The Frankenstein Code and then Lookinglass before they finally settled on the more prosaic Second Chance. From Broad City to Vinyl: here's what to watch this winter So who’s the Frankenstein and why does he get a second chance? He is Jimmy Pritchard, a 75-year-old disgraced former sheriff of Kings County in Washington state, who winds up dead after some foul play. A young billionaire genius named Otto Goodwin (Adhir Kalyan), who owns a Facebook-like social network, and his twin sister Mary (Dilshad Vadsaria) bring him back to life in a brand new body.What’s his new body look like? Exactly like former EastEnders and Dream Team star Robert Kazinsky, rocking television’s sexiest dad bod. Does he have neck bolts? Sorry, he does not have neck bolts, but he is super strong and has enhanced senses and can jump really high and stuff. However, every 12 hours he has to go back into a magic tank so that he can be regenerated all over again or else he’ll die for good. Why, exactly, do these Facebook twins want a Frankenstein? Mary has cancer and Otto thinks the blood of the Frankenstein will be able to cure it. Otto can’t live without Mary because he’s socially inept and can only communicate to the outside world through her. They even have a secret twin language. What’s up with Frankenstein’s family? Pritchard was a real hard-drinking, womanizing, rock’n’roll-loving son of a gun when he was alive. He has a son Duval (Tim DeKay) who is an FBI agent, and a daughter Helen (Amanda Detmer), a free-loving hippie type. Jimmy is taking his second chance to get closer to his kids and help Duval solve crimes, even though his kids don’t know he is reincarnated. This sounds more like a movie than a TV show. Indeed. I think the premise would have been better summed up in two hours, but there is a case-of-the-week format where Duval and Jimmy have to clear cases together as they work on mending their relationship. They also have the help of Otto and Mary and their social network called Lookinglass – in case you weren’t already worried about what Mark Zuckerberg is doing with all the data you’ve been giving him for free all these years. Is it any good? The pilot episode is absorbing. It’s interesting to see this fit guy who looks 35 but has the spirit of a 75-year-old. Also, as Mary points out in the first episode, his commitment to law enforcement ranks a distant fourth to getting drunk, sleeping with chicks and enjoying music. His only ally in the pilot is a hooker that he was hiring before he died and got reborn. That all makes for a fun dynamic that you don’t often see on television: a cop who doesn’t really want to help but is more or less forced to. However, in subsequent episodes all of these rough edges are sanded off and Jimmy is transformed into that most common of television characters: the misunderstood law enforcer who doesn’t play by the rules, but bends them for the good of his fellow man. He is dedicated to helping his son and forging their bond, both fraternally and as crime fighters. Sure Jimmy is way more loose with the rules than his uptight son, but he’s such a nice guy that all the things that made him interesting in the first place are rendered moot. Are the cases intriguing? Not really. They’re actually kind of goofy, especially the one about the son of a wealthy businessman who puts on silly makeup and attacks people with a sword. Jimmy does get to take an unknown drug at an underground rave, though (the rave is literally under the ground). The show is very watchable and moves along at a crisp pace, but it doesn’t leave much room to grow. The non-procedural elements are the much more exciting parts of the series, but the cases take up way more time. Is there anything to love about the show? The emphasis on technology and new ways to fight crime isn’t being done anywhere else like they’re done here (sorry CSI: Cyber). It doesn’t seem far-fetched that Otto and Mary can basically solve any mystery using the clues they piece together from user data. Is there anything to hate? Otto created an AI friend named Arthur who helps them out and he has an animated avatar and high-pitched voice that is the most annoying thing I have seen since that animated paperclip that used to haunt Microsoft Word. Should you watch this show? It’s an exciting premise and is not executed badly and Kazinsky is especially charming (not to mention handsome). You could do a lot worse than Second Chance. But unless it expands its Frankenstein mythology or finds a way to gussy up the story of the week, the show will remain decidedly mediocre. 