By June 1853, Heinrich Barth was three years into his monumental, five-year expedition to central Africa. He had crossed the Sahara, charted Lake Chad, survived numerous bouts of malaria and lost his two travelling companions to disease, yet he still had the appetite for a major overland journey, to Timbuktu. Heading west from Sokoto in the rainy season, through land “never trodden by European foot”, he stopped to take shelter in Gando. There, he was shown a manuscript, a chronicle of the region that would revolutionise European thinking about west Africa’s history.The document is known as the Tarikh al-sudan, the “chronicle of the Sudan”, and it was written in the 17th century by the Timbuktu scholar Abd al-Rahman al-Sa’di. It runs to 38 chapters, some of which are based on earlier histories, some on the author’s own observations and interviews. Its Arabic grammar is imperfect enough to make later historians believe Songhay was al-Sadi’s first language, and its style at times recalled the folk stories of the Brothers Grimm or the tales of One Thousand and One Nights.Barth knew the volume was immensely significant: “I have no hesitation in asserting that the [chronicle] will be one of the most important additions which the present age has made to the history of mankind, in a branch which was formerly almost unknown,” he wrote. He sat with it for several days, copying out as much as he could, and later forwarded his notes to Germany, where the extracts were translated and published in 1855.The Tarikh al-sudan begins with a list of the kings of Songhay, and an account of its founding myth. The first dynasty was known as the Zuwa, and its first ruler was Zuwa Alayaman who was made king after slaying a fish with a ring in its nose, which people mistakenly worshipped as a god. Songhay was later subsumed into Mali, the empire that supplanted ancient Ghana in the region known as the western Sudan, but it was delivered from this fate by a brave prince, Ali Kolon. As Malian power faded in the 15th century, the Songhay rulers took over their lands and began to use the title “askiya”. The greatest of these kings was Askiya al‑hajj Muhammad, who built on his predecessor’s conquests to establish Songhay as the largest empire west Africa had ever seen, stretching from the Senegal river in the west to Agadez in the east.The capital of Songhay was at Gao, but the empire’s intellectual and spiritual hub was Timbuktu. This city was founded in the early 12th century by the Tuareg, and soon others were arriving in great numbers from neighbouring regions, so that it was filled with caravans from all countries, and scholars and pious people of every race. In 1325, the great Malian king Musa I installed a representative in Timbuktu and ordered the construction of a royal palace, as well as the tower-minaret of the Jingere-Ber mosque. But the golden age of what al-Sadi called “this virtuous, pure, undefiled, and proud city, blessed with divine favour, a healthy climate, and [commercial] activity”, came under the Askiyas. Their reign lasted for a century, until 1591, when the sultan of Marrakech sent an army across the desert to seize their lands.The tarikh’s discovery was used in the late 19th century to rekindle the myth of a gilded city that had thrived in Europe for 450 years until 1828, when René Caillié had become the first explorer to return alive from the city. He described it as “nothing but a mass of ill-looking houses, built of earth”. In 1911, parts of what appeared to be a second major Timbuktu chronicle were discovered, and these were translated by the French Orientalists Octave Houdas and Maurice Delafosse and published as the Tarikh al-fattash, the “chronicle of the researcher”. In the 20th century, a consensus, vulgate view of this history emerged, based on the chronicles and the king lists they related. These details, historians could broadly agree, were facts. We must rely less on the chronicles’ recreations of the past and respect the chroniclers’ skills as text craftsmenPaulo Fernando de Moraes Farias In 2003, however, the world’s understanding of the region was transformed yet again. The instigator of this change was Paulo Fernando de Moraes Farias, a Brazilian medical doctor who had lived and worked for many years in west Africa. Farias had become fascinated by the medieval inscriptions etched on tombstones in northern Mali. These, he realised, predated the Timbuktu chronicles by hundreds of years. They had been rediscovered in the early 20th century, and academics had reacted to them with bursts of enthusiasm followed by paralysing uncertainty, as they had no idea how to relate them to the chronicles. Dates and names of rulers simply didn’t match up.In fact, as Farias explained in his Arabic Medieval Inscriptions from the Republic of Mali, the epigraphic evidence showed the history in many parts of the chronicles was fabricated. Entire dynasties had been squeezed out of the king lists – including a royal series of at least six female rulers – while other myths had been borrowed from different cultures to plug inconvenient gaps in the record. Why had the chroniclers sought to create a new, synthesised history? In Farias’s view, the chronicles were a political project conceived in the aftermath of the Moroccan conquest of 1591. The invasion had turned the Askiyas into puppet kings, and reduced the privilege of the literate urbanites, while the new powerbrokers in the region struggled for legitimacy. By joining the history of Songhay into a single, taut narrative, the Timbuktu chroniclers were attempting to reconcile these disparate centres of authority and enable them to move forward together as a single, unified elite. The result was embellished, rather than accurate, history, and it amounted to the most innovative writing ever to have emerged from the city.“We must rely less on the chronicles’ reconstructions of the early past,” Farias concluded, “while learning to respect the chroniclers’ skills as text craftsmen and ideological agents.”Even at the start of the 21st century, then, the history of Timbuktu and the people of the middle Niger has been subject to major revision. The lesson is clear: assertions about the history of this most mythologised city remain difficult to make, since its culture is almost always more sophisticated than we have thought.• Charlie English is the author of The Book Smugglers of Timbuktu, published by William Collins.