Liberal Democrat councillors and MPs are preparing to revolt over the coalition government's crackdown on solar subsidies, as a growing number have been greeted with stiff opposition from outraged householders and companies fearing swingeing job cuts.A secret briefing document seen by the Guardian reveals the extent of Lib Dem anger at the controversial policy to slash solar power incentives for households – a policy that many local Lib Dem politicians feel is a betrayal of their core values. Local councillors are being advised to push for a postponement of the subsidy cuts, as a minimum.Feed-in tariffs, by which households receive a guaranteed income for the electricity they produce from renewable sources, such as solar panels, are to be slashed from December 12, making them much less attractive to households. Solar companies say thousands of jobs will be lost in the fledgling industry, which currently employs about 25,000 people around the country. Several are bringing legal actions against the government, arguing that the government has acted illegally in bringing in the changes so hastily, before a consultation has taken place.The government said the halving of the subsidy rate was necessary, as otherwise the scheme would cost more than the £860m allocated. Experts estimate that cutting the tariffs will save less than 60p per year on the average energy bill, a sum that solar proponents argue will be easily outweighed by the costs of redundancies and lost tax revenues.In the briefing document, the Lib Dem group within the Local Government Association warns: "To do it [bring in the cuts] at such short notice isn't good governance and bad for business planning. Changes were expected next year, not to be imposed with a month's notice. We want the cut-off point to be extended to the end of the financial year, as originally promised."They are particularly concerned about the future of local schemes to install solar panels on social housing, which can help to rescue people from fuel poverty. Those schemes should have special protection, the group argues.Highlighting the difficulties Lib Dems face in "selling" the current policy to voters, the briefing document voices concerns that the party's "good record" on environmental issues is being "undermined". It goes on: "We fought the last general election on getting more green jobs. The feed-in tariff was helping to grow a new industry and get more people into work. We don't want to see this put at risk. [The cut] flies in the face of the government's hard work in schemes such as the regional growth fund and the growing places fund to help create employment."The document also warned that the sudden changes to the feed-in tariffs would undermine confidence in the government's other flagship climate change policy, the "green deal" to encourage people to insulate their homes.The briefing document notes that the LGA has had "strong representation from councils of all political make-ups from around the country about the effect these changes will have on their finances, projects, and relationships with their communities", particularly with regard to community schemes to install solar panels on social housing. "It will be extremely difficult for councils to explain to their local people about why local schemes cannot now go ahead."Councillors are advised to write to Chris Huhne, the energy and climate change secretary, with their concerns."It's a consultation so we hope people will be listening – we are particularly concerned about community schemes and council schemes and are hoping the government can look at these again," said Rob Banks, of the Lib Dem LGA group.Under the government plans, from 12 December, any households installing panels will receive only 21p per kilowatt hour for the electricity generated by their panels, a cut of more than 50% from the 43.4p for panels installed before this date.Howard Johns, of the Cut Don't Kill campaign,which supports a less drastic cut phased in over time, said: "This document shows that there is strong opposition to this excessive cut within the coalition government's own grassroots. This was meant to be the greenest government ever, so it's natural that Liberal Democrats are deeply uncomfortable about such a counter-productive move. Ministers must listen to their own allies on the ground who have seen the crucial contribution made by the UK solar industry to the economy and the green agenda. This cut will destroy jobs, kill innovation and deprive huge numbers of low-income families of the chance to escape ever-rising energy bills – that is why the clamour for this proposal to be dropped is growing fast."