After the Great British Olympic medal haul, the nation’s focus switches to another, but no less fierce, competition on Wednesday with the return of the television phenomenon that is the Great British Bake Off.The improbably popular reality show, delayed because of the Olympics, hits BBC1 at 8pm and will see 12 home bakers walk into the famous tent at the beginning of a culinary odyssey that promises drama and challenge including a particularly dastardly one involving batter.A nurse, a church minister, a PE teacher, a banker and an aerospace engineer are among the amateurs competing in the seventh series of the show, which last year saw a peak of 14.5 million viewers – the largest TV audience of 2015 – tune in to watch Nadiya Hussain claim the Bake Off crown.The Great British Bake Off 2016: here's everything we're allowed to tell you And there is no disguising their nerves. “I see their nerves. You get them to hold their hand out and they are really shaking,” said Paul Hollywood, one of the two judges. Co-judge Mary Berry agrees. “They are very nervous about baking and talking to the cameras. They don’t do that at home.”Supermarkets are stocked and store buyers on tenterhooks anticipating what surprise ingredients will fly off the shelves, such is the power of the Bake Off effect. The show, co-presented by Mel Giedroyc and Sue Perkins, is rated by stores as being one of the top three baking periods of the year alongside Christmas and Easter.There are few clues about what to expect. “There were some strange tea flavours and they were infusing them to bake cakes,” Hollywood said.Over the next 11 weeks viewers will journey with the contestants as they fight the weekly threat of elimination. As usual, they are a mixed bunch with different strengths.Those with a decidedly sweet tooth include Andrew Smyth, 25, an aerospace engineer from Derby, who started baking at university and likes to think he can “make a mean macaroon”. Benjamina Ebuehi, 23, a teaching assistant in south London and baking since she was 15, finds her carrot cake is in demand. “Pretty much every Christmas, birthday or family get together I have to bring a carrot cake along,” she said.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bake Off judges Paul Hollywood and Mary Berry: ‘The show’s magic ingredient is passion.’ Photograph: Mark Bourdillon/BBC/Love Productions/Mark BourdillonSome favour the savoury. Candice Brown, 31, a PE teacher originally from London and a baking fan since licking the spoon on her grandmother’s knee, prides herself on her sausage rolls. Louise Williams, 46, a hairdresser from Cardiff, who started baking cakes at eight to raise money for charity, is passionate about her focaccia. Bread is Tom Gillford’s thing, too. “I love to bake bread and make a loaf every weekend if I can,” said the 26-year-old Oxford graduate who works for the Royal Society of Arts.Pavlova gets the thumbs up from Jane Beedle, 61, a garden designer from Beckenham, south-east London, whose father and grandfather were both bakers, and whose pavlova “gets wheeled out for all occasions”. That is also the signature dish of the Rev Lee Banfield, 67, a church pastor and former builder from Bolton, who, inspired by his school cook mother, dreams of a “soft, chewy pavlova with mountains of fresh cream topped with fruit and decorated with caramelised sugar”. Kate Barmby, 37, a nurse at an acute respiratory ward whose mother taught her to bake “when I was still in my high chair”, is putting her faith in her “celebration fruitcake”. She added: “However, if you asked my children what my signature bake was they would say chocolate fudge cake. They adore it.”Meanwhile Michael Georgiou, 20, a Durham University student and the youngest contestant, has confidence in his lemon, lavender and poppy seed angel cake. “I took it into school in year 13 after my friends requested it and it was gone in 20 minutes.” Rav Bansal, 28, a support worker at City University in London and whose mother once said “if your sister has to learn to cook, then you have to learn to cook also”, rates his chilli paneer tart as a classic Indian dish with a modern British twist.Selasi Gbormittah, 30, a banker, sees himself as “the cake/cupcake guy”, though will produce a mean quiche when the occasion demands. Also straddling the sweet and savoury camps, Val Stones, 66, a former primary school head teacher from Yorkshire, said: “If it’s savoury everyone asks for my sausage rolls, and for sweet any of my cupcakes.”Berry and Hollywood will be putting them through their paces with different challenges and different ingredients. Neither has ever predicted the winner correctly within the first couple of episodes, they admit. Bake Off’s magic ingredient is its “passion”, according to Hollywood. Berry agrees: “It’s passion and timing. The bakers can be absolutely brilliant but don’t get the timing right, don’t finish and then they don’t get the perfection we are asking for.” Baking is also about evoking fond memories, the two said. Ginger biscuits for Hollywood, and for Berry: “Mum’s picnics from wartime. She always made scones and we had homemade strawberry jam and no cream at all.” And if either were a cake, what would it be?Berry: “I would definitely be a lemon drizzle cake because everybody loves a lemon drizzle.”Hollywood: “A custard tart. Slightly hard on the outside but when you break in, it’s soft and sweet.” 