I'm sitting on an old railway embankment beside an enormous badger sett in Norfolk, waiting for one of Britain's most enigmatic animals to emerge. While other far more formidable creatures – bears, wolves, lynxes – have been driven to extinction, the badger has endured, our largest carnivorous mammal, largely because it is so elusive.Most people have seen a dead badger on the roadside but it is not surprising that so many of us have never watched a badger in the wild. The European badger (Meles meles) deploys its acute hearing and keen sense of smell to avoid its only real predator – the human. A badger can smell a print left on the ground hours earlier, and any unfamiliar noise can cause it to sit tight in its underground citadel for days if necessary.Crouching in the gloom, unable to talk, waiting for an animal that never appears sounds like a particularly dismal country pursuit but badger watching is peculiarly thrilling – an experience that fills the watcher with great calm and, occasionally, a rush of exhilaration. Think of it as wild theatre.I first saw badgers in the wild when some friends took me to the unlikely surroundings of a canalside in Wolverhampton (urban badgers are thriving, particularly in Bristol, Bath and Brighton). The moment a badger emerged at the entrance to a sett, twirling its nose to test the air like an expert sommelier, was almost surreal. To my eyes, these animals looked as exotic as giraffes or zebras.Watching badgers has never been so easy because despite attempted culls, the UK badger population has increased by 76% over the past 16 years. Not far from my home in Norfolk, I've found the excellent sett I'm now watching. Even if I don't see a badger, it is never disappointing.We so rarely sit still for anything. If we do, in the countryside, it is amazing how quickly we become part of our surroundings. We smell, hear and feel all the things that usually elude us – the rustle of a mouse, the conversation of tawny owls, the husky bark of a fox. When I return, I am in a trance. It's as restful as meditation, it's peaceful exhilaration. I'm not sure there's a better way of spending a few hours than doing nothing at dusk.  Get sett with our beginner's guide. Photograph: AlamyHOW TO DO ITFirst, find your sett. Unlike smaller, rounder rabbit holes, badger holes are a squashed oval shape, reflecting their low-slung bodies. Badger poo is another clue: they leave neatly dug latrines nearby. Ensure the sett can be watched from a public footpath, or that you have permission from the landowner. June and July are the best months to see badgers, as you can watch playful cubs above ground. Badgers are less active in winter.WHAT TO WEARBadgers can't see very well, but their sense of smell is good. You should wear dark clothes, a hat and cover your hands – these show up vividly in the dark. Don't wear perfume and try not to smell too clean. The badger watcher Robert Fuller leaves his coat by a badger sett for a week.WHAT TO BRINGPack a torch so you can get home but don't use it on the badgers – it will scare them. Some badger watchers use a torch with a red bulb, which doesn't alarm them. You shouldn't feed wild badgers – they may become dependent on you – but scattering a few peanuts around the sett before they emerge is usually OK, and it ensures they linger for longer.WHEN TO STARTArrive an hour before sunset. Your best views are likely to be at dusk but you need to be motionless long before then. Don't get too close, and try to get above the badgers: even getting just a metre up means your scent is likely to drift up and away. A sett in a bank may give you the opportunity to sit directly above it. Or find a tree you can safely climb. I usually stay for an hour after sunset – when it gets dark you don't see many badgers. The key to keeping still is to get comfortable – so remember to bring a cushion!WHERE TO SEE THEMThe best places around BritainThe Badger Trust (www.badger.org.uk), which promotes their welfare and conservation, has several regional groups that offer badger-watching evenings in the summer months, including the Herts and Middlesex Badger Group – for more details of this one, visit tewinorchard.co.uk/badgers.htmlSeveral regional wildlife trusts (visit wildlifetrusts.org) also offer occasional badger watching evenings, including Suffolk Wildlife Trust. Their special hide is open from April to September, on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings. Adults £7.50, children (over-sevens only) £2.50: suffolkwildlifetrust.org/mammal-groupSome farms and B&Bs also offer badger spotting. Badger Watch Dorset has a farm that allows badger watching from a hide, promising an evening in the country you'll never forget. Adults £15: badgerwatchdorset.co.ukIf you'd like to see wild badgers up close, why not volunteer to help the Wildlife Trusts vaccinate the animals against bovine TB? The organisation believes vaccination should be at the centre of efforts to tackle the disease and 12 of the trusts have programmes under which badgers are humanely trapped, injected and then released, including in Gloucestershire, Somerset, Dorset, Cheshire, Shropshire and South and West Wales: details at wildlifetrusts.org/appeals/badgersEmail Patrick if you'd like to visit his badger-watching site in Norfolk:patrick.barkham@theguardian.comTo order a copy of Badgerlands by Patrick Barkham for £7.99 (RRP £9.99), visit theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846.To order one of the Guardian's bestselling Badger Resistance T-shirts, for £19.99, visit theguardian.com/t-shirts/badger