This year’s World Radio Day celebrates broadcasting’s potential to save lives in times of emergency and disaster.Take the situation in Sierra Leone during the Ebola outbreak. Not since the civil war ended in 2002 had the country faced a bigger challenge. In the absence of a coordinated media approach following the outbreak in May 2014, rumours and misinformation became rife. There was an urgent need to engage audiences with relevant, accurate and timely information.Ebola: toilet cleaners, gravediggers and survivors tell their story – in pictures As fear grew, so did rumours. Spread by word of mouth and hasty phone calls, the hearsay ranged from bathing in hot salty water as a means of protecting against Ebola to the efficacy of drinking “bitter Kola” as a cure.BBC Media Action responded by launching two new national radio programmes: Kick Ebola Nar Salone (Kick Ebola out of Sierra Leone), a weekly 30-minute show, and Kick Ebola Live , a weekly two-hour live simulcast. The programmes were carried on more than 40 partner stations across the country. Our long-running panel debate show Tok Bot Salone (Talk About Sierra Leone) also gave people the chance to question the authorities about their response to the outbreak.In an emergency, the potential of local and community radio to reach and engage audiences is critical. So BBC Media Action worked with 42 local and community-based radio stations across Sierra Leone, contributing to efforts to raise awareness about the virus while helping to change listeners’ attitudes and effect behavioural change.An established and often well-trusted source of information for people in affected communities, local radio offered community leaders a key platform. It enabled them to speak directly about issues and concerns affecting their communities, and and to do so more effectively, thereby complementing nationally or regionally produced programmes.By featuring influential local leaders, radio broadcasters helped to build trust, encouraging communities to take action to protect themselves and their families. In Kambia, for example, the town chief’s willingness to be the first to take an Ebola vaccine successfully trialled in neighbouring Guinea was seen as inspiring and reassuring. Our partner radio show was able to address community fears about the safety of the vaccine, resulting in a voluntary uptake of the treatment.Communication gaps can be fatal in such a crisis. The ability of local radio to broadcast in local languages or dialects – catering to the real needs of audiences – is critical. BBC Media Action research shows 15% of rural audiences in Sierra Leone understand neither the lingua franca, Krio, nor English.'My hope is that there is more peace here': life after Ebola – in pictures Local language programmes can therefore be empowering. They connect with people, generate trust and inspire confidence in citizens to respond and take action. Two-way communication with those involved in the Ebola response supported often frightened communities, helping to save lives.Local radio shows played an important role in changing attitudes and behaviour. Cutting through years of cultural practice and normal social behaviour – caring for sick relatives, rather than isolating those suspected to be infected, or tending to the bodies of the deceased prior to burials – was undeniably challenging. But our research indicates that radio stations were felt to have helped listeners at different times during the outbreak, shifting their approach.In Pujehun, for example, an ambulance driver who survived the Ebola virus was jeered at when he walked down the street. At one point a bread seller, fearful of contracting the virus, refused to take his money – only for a boy to volunteer to pass the money to the bread seller.Our partner station Radio Wanjei picked this up and subsequently made a programme discussing the issue that helped to dispel misconceptions about survivors. The station manager, Abu-Bakarr Mustapha, reported that the local show helped to build trust and confidence, encouraging people to interact with the survivor. He described how people called him to express sympathy with the man and to say that they felt bad about the way he had been treated. After the show, the survivor felt comfortable walking in the street, and people were happy to touch and interact with him.Though concerns linger about the Ebola response, radio remains an important conduit to navigate those anxieties, providing a platform for local voices to be part of both the discussion and the response.• Musa Sangarie is programme manager for BBC Media Action in Sierra Leone