Growing up in the 1990s in Edmonton, Alberta, it was pretty clear to me what Canadian identity was “supposed” to be. Canadian meant mounties and lumberjacks, navel-gazing introspection and hosers in plaid shirts playing hockey. The artists that dominated radio were confessional pop singer-songwriters like Alanis Morissette, Barenaked Ladies and Crash Test Dummies. On TV, it was Hockey Night in Canada, Due South and the Red Green Show. I grew up frustrated by these cliches: I rocked cornrows and Enyce jeans, and my dad would come to school functions wearing a sweatshirt of … And Then There Was X, by the rapper DMX. I often wondered when I might see someone in the public sphere who looked, and sounded, like us.My father was a pioneering hip-hop DJ at CJSR 88.5 FM, but my assumption that hip-hop should be omnipresent in everyday life wasn’t shared by many other people. You’d catch the occasional Choclair or Kardinal Offishall video on the TV channel MuchMusic, but getting into rap was largely a solo mission – ordering import Rawkus compilations from the US and hanging out on online communities like Hip Hop Infinity and Hollerboard.In school, other kids didn’t even mention hip-hop until Eminem. Once, when I was searching for members for an electronic rap project with a full band, a local bass player was skeptical: “What are you gonna play on stage, a computer?” Later, when I began to tour the country and told people I was a rapper from Edmonton, they’d reply: “Sorry to hear that!”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Drake showed that Canadian rap could be a fruitful investmentIn the early 2000s, Canadian indie became a dominant musical genre. Broken Social Scene, Islands and Arcade Fire making epic pop using small armies of musicians, dictated the direction and sensibility of rock around the world more than Canadians had since the days of Neil Young and Joni Mitchell.So in 2006, I still felt like a total outsider when my debut album was nominated for the inaugural Polaris music prize. Inside the Phoenix theatre in Toronto that night, other than the guests at my fellow rapper and nominee K’naan’s table, there were practically no other people of colour. There was certainly no indication that within a decade Canada might become one of the countries dictating the worldwide direction of hip-hop culture.  When I told people I was a rapper from Edmonton, they’d reply: 'Sorry to hear that!' Then something unexpected began to happen. The internet tightened the bonds of Canada’s underground rap community, helping to galvanise disparate regional scenes and spread our music to people around the world – which is how I got a record deal. Drake blew up and showed that Canadian rap could be a fruitful investment.Living in Montreal, I saw reflections of myself in an experimental and innovative instrumental hip-hop scene, featuring producers such as Lunice and Kaytranada. In Toronto, meanwhile, there was an explosion of groundbreaking new artists, with familiar cultural backgrounds and sonic characteristics: the pummelling beats of Wondagurl, the tough, insouciant rapping of Nav, the stylistic fearlessness of PARTYNEXTDOOR. Rap took rock’s place in the global conversation about Canadian music.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This has been empowering. From institutions like the Art Gallery of Ontario featuring local rap and R&B artists at their first Thursday events to North by Northeast programming a full day of their festival with only rap and R&B artists, the mainstream is reaching out to Canadian rap in a way it never would have done a decade ago. It’s a good time to make rap and R&B in Canada.This is why it’s so baffling that commercial radio stations across Canada rarely programme rap music, fearful that advertisers are afraid to market their products next to “urban” music. Despite attention from the Grammys and many of the other major arbiters of critical and commercial musical success, you still mostly only hear rap, R&B and dancehall on college and community radio, and on independent stations such as Toronto Radio Project (where I host a show called Allsorts).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rollie Pemberton rocking a full Rocawear tracksuit in the late 1990s with his family in EdmontonThe CBC, in particular, has been slow to adapt to our nation’s global identity as a hip-hop hotbed, worried about alienating older listeners in the less progressive corners of the country. While classic hip-hop stations garner huge ratings across the US, our nation is frightened of potentially offending anyone still anachronistic enough to believe that rap is crap.It’s still amazing to see how far things have come. People tell me they’ve visited Edmonton and specifically sought out Oliver Square, because of my song of the same name, the same way I once searched Brooklyn for the streets name-checked by Jay-Z. Others said they’ve mentioned being from Edmonton to a stranger while travelling, and the other person would say, “Oh yeah, where Cadence Weapon’s from?” I no longer have to explain why and how I exist. It’s gratifying to learn that what I’m doing makes a positive impact on my country’s creative reputation, especially when that possibility once felt so unlikely for someone as “un-hoser” as me.Guardian Cities is devoting a week to exploring all things Canada. Get involved on Twitter and on Facebook and share your thoughts with #GuardianCanada 