The Welsh Italians 7pm, BBC2Michela Chiappa explores links between Italy and Wales. The nations, reckons the Merthyr-born presenter of Simply Italian, are united by a love of “family, fun and food”. As to how family ties between the two regions came about, many Italians came to Wales during the age of coal, when there was work aplenty. They stayed to open cafes, known as bracchis, and – to judge by this first offering in a two-parter – to pick porcini mushrooms in the autumn. Jonathan WrightMasterChef: The Professionals 8pm, BBC2Hygge it right up, as the ninth series of the reliable culinary challenge begins. Gregg Wallace, Marcus Wareing and the ever-fabulous Monica Galetti are the judges as six ambitious chefs have their skills tested. There’s steak diane on the menu, followed by the almost impossible task of creating a raspberry tart with white chocolate crème anglaise in just 25 minutes. If they can get through that, it’s time to serve up their signature dishes. Hannah VerdierThe Secret Life of Four-Year-Olds 8pm, Channel 4Having provided an illuminating insight into the behavioural changes among four-year-olds the moment grownups leave the room – largely forming the very same cliques that adults might – a fresh look at how under-fives adapt to independence. Freed from the protective yoke of parenthood, many conform to particular archetypes, such as young Fabian: initially popular with his peers, a test of willpower soon threatens his status. Mark Gibbings-JonesElection Night in America11.15pm, BBC1If it were solely up to white American men, the US electorate would without doubt make the worst decision in the union’s history tonight. Thankfully it’s not, and despite a late revival of the email controversy, Hillary Clinton remains favourite to win. It’ll be all about the key swing states such as Ohio and Florida, with Andrew Neil and Katty Kay presenting live coverage and Jeremy Vine analysing the exit polls. David StubbsPete Burns: The Last Interview 10pm, Channel 5A timely look at the Dead Or Alive frontman’s life, after his death aged 57 last month. From acerbic record shop assistant in Liverpool to the dizzy heights of fame with 1985’s You Spin Me Round (Like a Record), a stint on Celebrity Big Brother saw him become a reality-telly staple. It’s followed by a repeat of 2013’s Celebrity Wedding Planner, in which the singer organised a couple’s big day with help from John McCririck (yes, really). Grace RahmanDave Gorman: Modern Life Is Goodish 10pm, Dave“King of PowerPoint comedy” isn’t a viciously contested mantle, but Gorman deserves praise for having mastered his craft. His fourth series of lectures begins with a look at “extractor fans”, people so keen to project expertise, they suck the joy out of the thing they like. He has a pleasing streak of curmudgeon, and is as skilled with a comic callback as he is with his slides: his climactic anecdote about an online quiz is sublime. Jack SealeFilm choiceMona Lisa, (Neil Jordan, 1986), 1.25am, Film4Jordan’s accomplished thriller creates a touching, doomed romance in a menacing London. Lovable hardnut Bob Hoskins is ex-con George, reduced to chauffeuring Cathy Tyson’s West End callgirl. An unlikely relationship blossoms as they search a grubby underworld for her young colleague (Kate Hardie). Michael Caine is a sleazy vice king, but it’s Hoskins who lingers in the memory. Paul HowlettLive sportSnooker: Champion of Champions Day two from the Ricoh Arena. 12.45pm, ITV4NBA: Cleveland Cavaliers v Atlanta Hawks Coverage of the Eastern Conference clash. 12midnight, BT Sport 1Test cricket: India v England The first day of the eagerly awaited series from Rajkot. Can England repeat their 2012 triumph? 3.30am, Sky Sports 2