 10.39pm BST We are going to close the blog for the night. Thanks for everyone'scomments. Just to recap on the pieces we are running:• Sea ice in the Arctic has shrunk to its smallest extent ever recordedaccording to findings of the US National Snow and Ice Data Centre tobe released next week• Reports from the North Sea from Greenpeace's Arctic Sunrise research vessel• Arctic ice melt could cause a cold winter in the UK this yearGoodnight, and thanks for reading. 8.23pm BST More from Walt Meier at the National Snow and Ice Data Center, where researchers were surprised by the extent to which this year's loss of summer sea ice surpassed the 2007 record:We expected that sooner or later we would go below 2007,” he said. “But even this year, it's a little surprising. We didn't just streak by the record, we blew right past it over two weeks ago. It's really pretty surprising.”Meier went on to explain on of the mechanisms for accelerating the summer ice loss. The older sea ice, which is 3m to 4m thick, is becoming increasingly vulnerable.Larger expanses of that older sea ice, which is more resistant to melting, is breaking up into more isolated blocks surrounding by thinner summer ice.“It used to be that it all hung together like a big herd of animals almost protected. Now there are pieces that are becoming more isolated, almost separated from the herd, and they can be more easily melted,” he told Suzanne Goldenberg. 8.09pm BST Lonnie Thompson, one of the scientific stars of his generation, has devoted his career to tracking retreating ice caps in the Andes and other remote locations.He was concerned at the new observations on Arctic sea ice, he said in an email conversation with Suzanne Goldenberg:“These observations are concerning as they point to the continuing increase in the rate at which global climate change is impacting on ice on this planet in all its forms from sea ice to glaciers and ice sheets"“When I was beginning my career we used to use the phrase "at glacier speed" to mean something changing very slowly, but that is no longer the case. Glaciologists have had to come to terms with the fact that ice can respond much faster to climate change than we ever thought possible. Certainly, the loss of ice on our planet is one of the most convincing pieces of evidence for global climate change and it is impossible to argue that they have a political agenda.”Updated at 8.10pm BST 7.55pm BST Suzanne Goldenberg has just been speaking to Walt Meier, a researchscientist at the National Snow and Ice Data Centre in Boulder,Colorado, the institution which monitors the loss of Arctic summerice. He told her the official announcement of a record loss is expected soon.“Speaking right now, Monday or Tuesday is probably most likely,” he said. But if there is further loss over the weekend, “we will probably have to re-evaluate.” 7.48pm BST JasonP in the comments section has cited an interesting geological study which suggests that the North Pole may not have been ice-free for as long as 14 million years. The study also provides a detailed history of sea ice in the Arctic.Here's the link (pdf): http://bprc.osu.edu/geo/publications/polyak_etal_seaice_QSR_10.pdf 7.08pm BST According to Suzanne Goldenberg in Washington DC, all the evidence inthe world has not been enough to convince the Republican party of thereality of climate change – let alone a summer of heatwaves, drought,wildfires, and wild weather, including the hurricane that forced theparty to postpone the start of their convention.Mitt Romney turned climate change into a laugh line in his speechaccepting the Republican presidential nomination.But a self-identified Republican meteorologist was betting that theloss of Arctic sea ice could finally change some minds.In a blog post over at Climate Progress today, Paul Douglas puts record sea ice at the top of his list of 10 reasonsto accept climate reality.Douglas writes:I may not fit the stereotype of a “global warming alarmist.” I’m anEvangelical Christian. I’m enthusiastic about streamlining governmentand letting the markets work. But unlike some, I see no inherentstruggle between my faith and the ability of science to improve ourunderstanding of the world. The Creator gave me a brain, to think andreason, and react to facts on the ground. And I’m disillusioned,because some in my party are pro-science-denial, and on the wrong sideof history.Updated at 7.08pm BST 5.22pm BST One of the most immediate effects of this year's record melt could be a spike in your gas bill, according to researchers in North America this week, who warn the "Arctic sea ice melt 'may bring harsh winter to Europe'". It's all to do with changes to the jet stream, which some people speculated could have been behind the UK's (largely) rubbish summer.Here's why the Arctic could herald another cold winter. And yes, this is a 'could', 'may', etc story, for now.The unprecedented expanse of ice-free Arctic Ocean has been absorbing the 24-hour sun over the short polar summer. The heat in the water must be released into the atmosphere if the ice is to re-form this autumn. "This is like a new energy source for the atmosphere," said Francis.This heat and water vapour will affect the all-important jet stream – the west-to-east winds that are the boundary between cold Arctic and the warm mid-latitudes. Others researchers have already shown that the jet stream has been shifting northwards in recent years. Francis and colleagues have recently documented that the jet stream is also slowing down. 5.09pm BST Looking at this year's data, the NSIDC's Julienne Stroeve thinks the Arctic could be ice-free in summer as soon as two decades' time. Our head of environment, Damian Carrington, gives a sense on his blog of the consequences of an ice-free Arctic in summer:Will this be the first great tipping point to tumble the world into a new and hostile climate regime, as the cooling, reflective ice vanishes? Will the new, warm Arctic radically alter the temperate weather enjoyed by Europeans, for whom global warming has seemed a distant concern?We seem to be prepared to take that chance. The shrinking ice has not opened new leads for decisive global action to tackle climate change. Instead, in a vicious irony, the new channels are being exploited for oil and gas exploration, unearthing more of the very fuels driving the warming.Decades from now, will today's record sea ice low be seen as the moment when our Earthly paradise gave up the ghost and entered a hellish new era? I sincerely hope not, but with this global distress signal failing to attract attention, I fear the worst. 5.00pm BST Just to make clear – the official announcement on the record from the US NSIDC hasn't come yet. But we're expecting it as soon as Monday, if not earlier. Our US environment correspondent, Suzanne Goldenberg, is currently trying to find out from the centre when the formal news will drop.In the meantime, if you want to dig into the details, you can head over to this spreadsheet of the NSIDC's raw near real-time data. It shows the ice extent increased ever so slightly on Wednesday and Thursday, indicating the Arctic sea ice might (with the emphasis might) be refreezing for the winter. If that's the case, the new record low is around 3.421m sq km, a long way below the previous record of 4.17m sq km in 2007.The final record will be based on a 5 day average. 4.53pm BST Our environment editor, John Vidal, has been aboard Greenpeace's Arctic Sunrise vessel with some of the world's top ice experts, to document the 'great melt of 2012'. Here is what Cambridge University Sea ice researcher Nick Toberg, who has analysed underwater ice thickness data collected by British nuclear submarine HMS Tireless in 2004 and 2007, told him about this year's figures:"This is staggering. It's disturbing, scary that we have physically changed the face of the planet. We have about 4m sq km of sea ice. If that goes in the summer months that's about the same as adding 20 years of CO2 at current [human-caused] rates into the atmosphere. That's how vital the Arctic sea ice is."In the 1970s we had 8m sq km of sea ice. That has been halved. We need it in the summer. It has never decreased like this before".You can read more of Vidal's blogposts from the Arctic here.Updated at 4.58pm BST 4.45pm BST To get a sense of just how much we've changed how the North Pole looks from space, take a look at this excellent interactive graphic by my colleague Paddy Allen, which shows the minimum just over three decades ago, and the ice extent at the start of this month. To say it's dramatic is an understatement. 4.41pm BST I've just had this reaction in from Ed Davey, the energy and climate secretary:“These findings highlight the urgency for the international community to act. We understand that Arctic sea-ice decline has accelerated over recent years as global warming continues to increase Arctic temperatures at a faster rate than the global average.“This Government is working hard to tackle climate change and we are working closely with our international partners not to exceed 2 degrees above pre industrial levels. I am calling for the EU to increase its emission target from 20% to 30% and will be taking an active lead at the UNFCCC Climate change talks in Doha later this year, where I will push for further progress towards a new global deal on climate change and for more mitigation action now. The fact is that we cannot afford to wait”.Apologies for the slightly jarring clash between the levity of the news and the cheery photo.  Energy and climate change secretary Ed Davey arrives in Downing Street last week after David Cameron's cabinet reshuffle. (Photo by Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images)Updated at 7.33pm BST 4.23pm BST The extent of sea ice in the Arctic appears to have hit a new historic low. Here's the top of our news story:Sea ice in the Arctic has shrunk to its smallest extent ever recorded, smashing the previous record minimum and prompting warnings of accelerated climate change.Satellite images show that the rapid summer melt has reduced the area of frozen sea to less than 3.5m square kilometres this week – less than half the area typically occupied four decades ago.Arctic sea ice cover has been shrinking since the 1970s when it averaged around 8m sq km a year, but such a dramatic collapse in ice cover in one year is highly unusual.This is a big moment for the planet, with potential knock-on effects for our weather system in Europe and a massive acceleration of climate change. I'll be scooping up reaction from scientists, politicians, environmentalists and others before handing over this liveblog to my US colleagues. Arctic sea ice always melts in early summer and refreezes around September. But to get a sense of just how bad this year has been, take a look at this graph published in the last few hours by the most authoritative guide to the data, the US National Snow and Ice Data Centre (NSIDC). The thing that jumps out is how far this year (the blue line) is below the previous record (the green line), which "stunned" scientists when it was set in 2007. Adam Vaughan (@adamvaughan_uk)This is the US NSIDC's latest Arctic sea ice graph for Thursday's data. Looks like it's now refreezing after rec melt twitter.com/adamvaughan_uk…September 14, 2012Updated at 4.35pm BST