The Tiny Tots Talent Agency8pm, Channel 4The kids from the talent agency give it their all at a casting for a zombie film, which is disturbing but successful for some of Bizzykids’ finest. Lacey and Kieran’s mum, Becky, who’s inspired by Katie Price, is masterminding their careers and bribing her “diva-ish” six-year-old daughter to keep her under control. As per, the children are exhausted by rounds of auditions while their mothers insist that they’re enjoying the chance of a lifetime. Hannah VerdierThe A Word9pm, BBC1Concluding episode of Peter Bowker’s warm-hearted drama about the family of a young boy diagnosed with autism. The gastropub is due to open but frantic preparations are hampered by Joe, so grandfather Maurice (Christopher Eccleston) offers to distract him. Paul (Lee Ingleby) can only dodge a showdown with Alison (Morven Christie) for so long before she corners him at opening night. And Eddie gets some unexpected news from his wife. Some terrific acting and an on-point script have made this a low-key joy. Julia RaesideInside The Billionaire’s Wardrobe9pm, BBC2The genial Reggie Yates travels like it’s his gap year in this documentary about extravagant clobber. Chinese and Russian billionaires are now pretty much exclusively the customers for costly “animal items” (crocodile, snake, fur), but ethical worries and animal welfare aren’t always top of their priorities. Even Reggie is nearly seduced by the gear he sees. “You feel ... expensive,” he purrs, visiting a Moscow boutique and slipping into a fur jacket made by a man named Igor. John RobinsonBritain’s Treasure Islands9pm, BBC4The final instalment of Stewart McPherson’s quest to become – so far as it is possible to tell – the first person to visit all of the UK’s overseas territories. McPherson’s background as a naturalist has led to an emphasis on flora and fauna rather than human stories, but this has been a minor drawback of an otherwise excellent series. Tonight, McPherson visits British outposts in the Mediterranean and the Caribbean, as well as the unfathomably far-flung Ascension Island and St Helena. Andrew MuellerCamping10pm, Sky AtlanticJulia Davis’s sublime comedy concludes with a painfully awkward double bill, as Robin’s birthday finally arrives and the camping trip from hell comes to a shuddering, regretful end. Frustrations boil over between recovering alcoholic Adam and the painfully cowed Kerry over his increasingly blatant flirtations with Fay. But it’s when Fay’s secret stash of drugs comes into play that things get out of hand, with home truths and sexual experimentation emerging. Ben ArnoldLife After Chernobyl10pm, Animal PlanetThe exclusion zone around Chernobyl offers conservationists a valuable chance to study both plants and animals living and reproducing despite huge doses of radiation. It also offers the chance to be attacked by caesium-crazed wolves. Two risk-embracing boffins don hazchem suits and tiptoe into hell for a startling documentary that features seven-foot catfish, spiders glumly spinning wonky webs, and a patch of moss that provokes much running and screaming. Jack SealeNever Again: Fear and Faith in Paris10.45pm, BBC1In 2014, 8,000 Jewish people left France amid fears over terrorism and antisemitism. This documentary explores their reasoning, with contributions from those who live in the Parisian suburbs, often said to be incubators for prejudice. There’s also a report on a London synagogue where the congregation is now 90% French, and an interview with Lassana Bathily, a Muslim man who intervened during last year’s kosher supermarket attack. Jonathan WrightFilm choiceNicholas and Alexandra (Franklin J Schaffner, 1971) 12.50pm, Sony Movie ChannelThis lavish historical epic chronicles the reign and demise of the last Russian tsar and his wife. Michael Jayston and Janet Suzman are touching as a Nicholas and Alexandra too preoccupied with their ailing son, Alexis (Roderic Noble), to run the country properly. It’s a long haul to their execution in 1918, but on the plus side are the sumptuous design, grand set-pieces and Tom Baker as a colourful Rasputin. Paul HowlettInside Man (Spike Lee, 2006) 11.40pm, ITV4A bank heist is botched and becomes a messy hostage crisis – Dog Day Afternoon is deliberately evoked. But it’s soon clear to detective Denzel Washington that robber Clive Owen is stalling for time, and has a mysterious ulterior motive. An intriguing whydunit, then, with Jodie Foster and Christopher Plummer weighing in, but Russell Gewitz’s script is full of implausible holes. PHLive sportIndian Premier League cricket: Sunrisers Hyderabad v Rising Pune Supergiants Hyderabad host this Twenty20 clash. 3pm, Sky Sports 1Champions League football: Manchester City v Real Madrid The opening leg of the first semi-final, with City looking to reach the final for the first time. 7.45pm, BT Sport EuropeBasketball: NBA playoffs The NBA post-season continues. 1am, BT Sport 1