Christian Slater addressed his troubled past and recent career resurgence in the Golden Globe-winning show Mr Robot, during the show’s panel at the Television Critics Association winter press tour in Pasadena, California, on Thursday.“Strike and struggle precede success, even in the dictionary,” said the actor, who won for best actor in a supporting role in a series at Sunday’s ceremony, while the show netted the award for best television series (drama). “I love going to work, I love this business,” he added. “You just keep going, keep striving and struggling and saying yes, even though you might be a little afraid. I’m just grateful I said yes [to Mr Robot] basically. It’s an unpredictable ride and certainly one I’m grateful to be on.”Of his Golden Globe night, Slater said his most memorable moment was running into Harrison Ford at an after-party, where the Star Wars star “proceeded to pretty much smooch the heck out of my face”. Said Slater: “I was like: the night’s not gonna get much better than that, so I can go home now.”The project marks a high point of his career, following past brushes with the law that threatened to derail it altogether.Best TV of 2015: No 7 – Mr Robot After starring in the now-classic teen comedy Heathers (1988), Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991) and True Romance (1993), Slater was pegged to become one of Hollywood’s top leading men. His rise, however, was marred by regular brushes with the law, dating back to 1989 when the actor was charged for drunk driving and assault. In 1994, Slater was arrested after trying to board a commercial plane with a gun in his luggage. Three years later, he was sentenced to 90 days’ imprisonment for attacking his girlfriend Michelle Jonas and a police officer, under the influences of drugs and alcohol. And in 2005, Slater was again arrested after allegedly attacking a female pedestrian on the street in New York.Despite all this, Slater has continued to work steadily in his industry, appearing memorably in Lars von Trier’s Nymphomaniac most recently. But it’s his Golden Globe-winning performance in Mr Robot that has brought the actor a level of acclaim he hasn’t experienced since the 90s.Of his legal difficulties in the past, Slater told the Guardian in 2013: “They are not relevant to my career now. I’m happy to say I’ve put them all behind me.”Mr Robot: 'Edward Snowden is a huge fan of our show' As for the upcoming second season of Mr Robot, creator Sam Esmail said that it will center on the emotional journey of the show’s lead hacker, Elliot, played by Golden Globe nominee Rami Malek. “I really wanted to focus on that and make it less about the plot,” said Esmail.Mr Robot returns for a second season on USA this summer.