If every home in Britain was equipped with a smart water metre – a bit of kit sophisticated enough to inform householders how many litres they use per day – there would be no need for hosepipe bans. The water companies could give us a daily allowance and fine us for breaking it. But I can't feel too badly about the arrival of such a restriction, anxious though I am about the overpriced, globe-shaped box I planted in my own four inches of green only the other weekend (how feeble it looks, and yet how much I want it to survive!).There is something so peculiarly and delightfully British about a hosepipe ban. If George and Weedon Grossmith were writing their comic masterpiece of suburban life today, Mr Pooter would detail in his diary not his travails with a boot-scraper, nor his experiments with enamel paint, but his nocturnal efforts to use his hose unnoticed: "Tried to affect a careless look as I stood in the garden around midnight. The gloom made it hard to see if I reached the hostas successfully. But I am hopeful. As dear Carrie remarked when I returned indoors, 'This subterfuge is unexpectedly bracing!'"The water companies in question insist that they won't be "trawling the streets" looking for people who are breaking the ban; the last time one was imposed, the majority of householders behaved impeccably. On the other hand, they do expect to receive snitch calls. I wish I could say otherwise, but this doesn't surprise me at all. I heard of the ban as I was picking my way through Emily Cockayne's fat new social history of neighbours, Cheek by Jowl, a book that reminds one (if such a reminder was necessary) that the people next door infuriate far more often than they please and always have done.Cockayne has dug up a story from as long ago as 1333, about a pair of Londoners, Joan and Andrew de Aubrey, at loggerheads with their neighbours over a shared privy. According to the London Assize of Nuisance, the neighbour in question had removed parts of the enclosure "so that the extremities of those sitting upon the seats can be seen, a thing which is abominable and altogether intolerable".Shared privies are a thing of the past now. So, too, are such noisy activities – listed as antisocial in the Times in 1919 – as motor cranking and gramophone grinding. But, meanwhile, a host of other irritations has sprung up in their wake, most notably, in my case, the new passion for digging vast and unnecessary basements beneath terraced houses.A hosepipe ban, then, is an opportunity for revenge. All it takes is a phone call and – presto! – the neighbour whose desire for a few inches of extra head space above their Poggenpohl work surfaces will be in receipt of a fine for £1,000. (Dialling Anglian or Thames on your iPhone is, I suppose, the 21st-century equivalent of building a "spite wall", something the Victorians occasionally liked to do.)Cockayne's book is well-timed and not only because of the hosepipe ban (her interest in gardens is limited, though she has a nice anecdote from the 50s about a Coventry estate where the back gardens were divided only by a symbolic string of wire; the women disliked the visibility of their washing lines, especially those who were a bit slutty when it came to their bedlinen). Turn its pages and you realise that people have longed for the same two things unchangingly down the ages: a bit of peace and quiet – and a lot of privacy. This, among many other reasons, is why we remain a nation of gardeners and thus why a hosepipe ban is necessary at all.Yet never before has the world been so loud or seclusion so hard to achieve. It is strikingly odd, when you think about it, that the same person who happily exposes all the intimate details of their life on Facebook or Twitter freaks out when their neighbour chops down a hedge or builds an extension with a good view of their bedroom window. Some of us "know" more people than ever before, thanks to social networks, and yet our neighbours form an ever-shrinking proportion of the crowd. Lives have moved indoors. Hatches are battened down. Fences grow ever higher. A paralysing urban shyness prevails.Cockayne thinks that when water companies encourage neighbours to grass, community harmony is corroded. Maybe so. Like I say, I've had some pretty dark thoughts myself. On the other hand, if the drought continues and standpipes come in, something very different may happen. Standing in line with our buckets, perhaps we will start talking to the men and women whose faces we recognise, but whose names, professions and tastes in TV drama are an eternal mystery. I don't look forward to the pails and the bottles, but I must admit that a part of me aches to connect.In my childhood, knowing one's neighbours was an ordinary thing and it gave the world a halo of safety. Even now, I can remember that it was Mrs Barsby for whom my Granny Cooke would buy Park Drive cigarettes when she went shopping in Sheffield – "Cummin' in, Mrs Barsby!" she would shout, as she arrived back at base with the goods – and the widowed Mrs Relton who lived next door to my Granny Goodson. On the day of Mrs Relton's funeral, every house in the street kept their curtains closed until it was over.Last month, I asked a tree surgeon to prune the plum at the end of my London garden. In the days before he began work, on his advice (shaming, really, that I did not think of this myself), I contacted the neighbour on the other side of my fence – I'd never spoken to her before – to warn her that her garden might fill with branches. She was fine about this; ringing her doorbell had somehow disarmed her. But, for reasons that are only now apparent to me, I gave her my name and mobile number anyway.A few days later, after the tree surgeon had done his worst, my phone rang. I knew who it was before I heard her voice; I could hear her sausage dog yapping both through the back door and down the line. On the other hand, I would not have been able to tell you her name. I still didn't know it."Is that Rachel?" said my neighbour. And then: "It's Jane." Although she went on to tell me how much she liked the way the tree looked, it was her first few words that got me, with their suggestion that we were, if not old friends, then warm acquaintances. They felt like a blessing. Yes, a standpipe would be a mighty inconvenience. But who knows who you might meet in the queue?