As George Balanchine’s Jewels turns 50, the Royal Ballet are one of several companies worldwide to honour the ballet with a celebratory revival. The 1967 triptych may not have any characters or plot, yet it’s one of the most enduringly popular pieces in the repertory, offering what many ballet fans have come to regard as the ideal balance of entertainment.On one level Jewels mimics, quite flagrantly, the pleasures of the old-fashioned classic ballet. Each of its three acts – Emeralds, Rubies and Diamonds – comes with its own richly orchestrated score; each has its own distinctively coloured decor and its own bravura style of dancing. Yet because Jewels is essentially an abstract work, these pleasures also come free of the narrative quirks and longueurs associated with the traditional classic. There are no heel-clicking hussars or fairytale characters performing lengthily tangential divertissements; no ladies-in-waiting or bewigged courtiers promenading the stage; no quaint conversations in mime. What Balanchine has given the repertory is a straight two and a half hours of pure, grownup choreography and music.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   No heel-clicking hussars... a scene from Emeralds. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianWhen the work was first premiered in New York it took a while for the astuteness of its format to be acknowledged. Balanchine purists – attuned to the stringently modernist aesthetic of ballets such as Four Temperaments or Agon – regarded Jewels as a retrograde step. It wasn’t merely the showiness of its titular concept that was considered suspect, the glitteriness of its costumes or the frankly tawdry quality of its original set design, but the motives which had led Balanchine to conceive the ballet in the first place.Back in 1967, the choreographer and his company, New York City Ballet, had just moved into the challengingly large space of the Lincoln Center, and they needed to attract a larger, more moneyed crowd. Establishing their presence with a work like Jewels (and crediting the Fifth Avenue jewellers Van Kleef & Arpels as its inspiration), Balanchine was being blatant about the kind of audience and patrons he wanted to snare. Jewels can be read as Balanchine’s own very personal account of ballet history But if early detractors regarded Jewels as a sophisticated but compromised form of product placement, those quibbles have long been superseded by a recognition of the ballet’s superb craft. It’s accepted now that the work’s imaginative logic goes far deeper than the surface metaphor of its title. There may be interlacing patterns of movement that form necklaces, bracelets and pendants; there may be a scarlet coloured swagger to the choreography of Rubies, and a pale and bevelled brilliance to Diamonds. But a far more resonant way of looking at Jewels is to read it as Balanchine’s own very personal account of ballet history.In Emeralds, he works with the fine-spun nostalgia of Gabriel Fauré’s music (taken from Pélleas et Mélisande and Shylock) to conjure the Romanticism of early 19th-century ballet. The green of the dancers’ costumes is evocative of enchanted forests, hunting scenes, and fleeting courtships; the dynamics of the choreography are uncharacteristically soft for Balanchine, as the phrasing breathes with unusual moments of stillness. And while there is a sweetly youthful virtuosity in the dancing of the principals (two princesses and their boyish suitors), what’s equally memorable is the subtle mysterious magic with which, at moments, Balanchine winds these principals back into the corps de ballet. They seem to fade away from the limelight into the texture of history, like figures from a tapestry.With Rubies, set to Stravinsky’s jazzy Capriccio for Piano and Orchestra, Balanchine is impersonating no period other than his own. He choreographs this act as a naturalised, mid-20th century New Yorker, fully at ease with the city’s stridency, its sexual tensions and competitiveness. The central duet is not so much a courtship as a duel of wits and wills. A man and a woman pit their strength and stamina against each other, while the lone siren ballerina (a recurrent favourite of Balanchine) is a teasingly expert dominatrix, her legs slicing over the heads of her male admirers, her hips swivelling with a flaunting irony.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fresh and witty ... Ryoichi Hirano and Laura Morera in Emeralds. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianTchaikovsky’s 3rd Symphony takes the closing Diamonds act back to the imperial ballet of Balanchine’s childhood, and to a world he saw shattered by the Russian revolution.The grandeur and pomp of the imperial ballet are qualities with which the choreographer played quite regularly in his work – and from the unusually dull opening waltz in Diamonds, which veers towards a very generic homage to Petipa, you might think he had nothing more to add. But the long unfolding pas de deux at the heart of this act becomes utterly enthralling, a distillation of the rituals and conventions of ballet courtship, a referencing of Swan Lake, Raymonda and Sleeping Beauty that turns into its own absorbing story. If Balanchine used Jewels to test himself against a chronological range of styles, he also used it to display the strengths of his company, creating no less than five ballerina roles alongside a solid quota of virtuosity for the male principals and soloists. The ballet remains a testing showcase for any company and if a few technical shortcomings are exposed during the opening night of the Royal’s revival (a couple of central roles were disappointingly underpowered), the casting is also exuberantly responsive to the diversity across which the ballet ranges, with certain dancers inhabiting roles as if they were tailor made.For Laura Morera, the second “princess” role in Emeralds ranks as one of the best in her personal repertory. She owns the delicate allegro steps that skim, with almost counterintuitive speed, over the floating lines of Fauré’s score. She adds light and shade to the phrasing, with fearless, but precision-timed tilts and shifts in her line. She is fresh and witty in her stage persona, but contains herself with a quality of regal reserve that allows the choreography and music to do their own work.Steven McRae is equally well suited to the cocky jester figure who sets the pace of Rubies. His supreme self-confidence – occasionally overbearing in other roles – is here perfectly pitched, both when he’s goading the other men on stage to rival his speed and buoyancy or when he’s engaged in competitive flirtatiousness with his ballerina Sarah Lamb. Lamb herself is superb. Her perfectly pretty, serenely intelligent composure makes doubly startling the audacity with which she plunges into perilously off-kilter arabesque, and adds a wickedly satiric edge to the brazen coquettishness of her pin-up poses.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cocky jester... Steven McRae and Melissa Hamilton in Rubies. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianCompleting this clutch of excellent performances is Marianela Nuñez, who has made Diamonds one of her signature roles. Entirely secure in her technique, Nuñez mines deeper meaning from the choreography every time she dances it. During the long, rapt opening of the pas de deux she seems locked inside herself, a ballet heroine under profound enchantment. Even when she acknowledges the attentions of her prince (Thiago Soares) it’s as though the two of them are barely agents of their own responses. Yet as Nuñez emerges from her spellbound state, her ballerina greatness is established in the way the atmosphere seems to change around her. Her wide, golden smile, her quick polished footwork and musically animated phrasing irradiate the stage; the rest of the dancers, too, rise to a new extrovert brilliance as Balanchine’s choreography breaks into brilliant shards of movement that glance and refract around the stage.With power to elicit dancing of this calibre, it’s no accident that Jewels has become a modern classic, capable of repeated viewings and repeated interpretations. The one element that needs fixing, however, is the costumes, which remain faithful to Karinska’s 1967 designs. The ever-vigilant Balanchine Trust has tried to insist on every new revival retaining them. Yet their sparkles, boxy tabards and net skirts are not only unflattering but hopelessly dated. As Jewels enters its second half century, it needs new costumes to ensure that its nuanced evocation of ballet history remains anchored in the present tense.