What would a zombie who had been half-melted into the ground after a napalm attack look like? Its rotting flesh would be blistered and stretched – like a hot dog that had been left in a microwave too long, says Greg Nicotero, The Walking Dead’s special effects guru and Hollywood’s go-to guy for all things gory.Creatively cooking up these sorts of scenarios and bringing them to life is all part of his job – and his excitement about it is infectious. “Growing up, I wanted to make monsters,” says the 52-year-old, whose special effects filmography includes Reservoir Dogs, Kill Bill, Sin City and Scream. These are just a few; so many gory “gags” (as he calls them) have Nicotero’s fingerprints on them. “My parents took me to see everything that came out in the movie theatre and I was enamoured with films like Jaws and Texas Chainsaw Massacre,” he says. He became more and more intrigued by special effects. “I started collecting movie posters and would spend all my time redrawing from the magazine Famous Monsters of Filmland.” After watching George A Romero’s cult classic Night of the Living Dead, Nicotero knew zombies were his calling. And as luck would have it, Romero, the godfather of zombie movies, lived less than an hour from his home in Pittsburgh. “Hollywood came to me in a weird way,” he says. Nicotero’s uncle, a local actor, had a bit part in Romero’s latest film and brokered an introduction for the teen.“At that point I still saw special effects as a hobby – I went to college to study pre-med and even turned down a job George offered me on his new film, Creepshow.” Then came an explosion of special effects movies: The Thing, Blade Runner, ET, American Werewolf in London, and Poltergeist all burst on to the scene in the first half of the 1980s. “All of a sudden the stuff that was a hobby of mine was becoming mainstream and I realised I’d made a mistake,” he admits. So when Romero offered the then 19-year-old a job as a makeup effects assistant on his film Day of the Dead, Nicotero packed in medical school and never looked back.His first zombies were the ones that lurched in the background of the shot and he would spend his days sculpting wounds and dressing blood for the undead. Working under special effects legend Tom Savini meant he learned his trade from the best. “It was the greatest feeling – every day was an adventure and it was exciting, new and fresh; I am proud to say 32 years later I still have that same excitement.”Things snowballed from there and in 1988 Nicotero set up his own company, KNB SFX, with makeup artists Robert Kurtzman and Howard Berger. He went on to win an Academy Award for achievement in makeup for The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe. I ask what he loves most about his job. “Everything,” he flashes back, before giving me an animated lowdown on just how effing-awesome it is.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Nicotero zombie on set. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCHow to make monstersNicotero predicts an influx of young people on the special effects makeup scene within four or five years, inspired by shows such as The Walking Dead and Game of Thrones. “While movies are using more CGI [computer generated imagery], television is embracing more practical makeup effects and putting it in front of more people on a week-to-week basis,” he says.If someone is interested in becoming a special effects professional today, there is an infinite amount of information on tips and techniques on the internet to get started. “There really is no excuse to say I don’t know how to do it.” Nicotero’s advice is to document every piece of work to chart improvements. “People send me their work and that’s how I notice them,” he says. “I always encourage people to take extensive photos of their makeups which are worthy of presenting in a portfolio.”An aspiring special effects professional might be encouraged to know that barbecued meat (for flesh eating), corn syrup (for all that blood), and hair conditioner (for lank and greasy hair) are all part of Nicotero’s artillery on the set of the Walking Dead. “I noticed that hair isn’t ever really addressed in other zombie movies – they have great rotted faces but their hair looks normal,” he says, hence the conditioner. “When a crowd of extras go past you onset I think, hey, you smell really nice for a rotted person.”He and his team will work on dozens of zombies (or walkers as they are known in the television series) every day, with each taking at least 90 minutes to get ready. Nicotero now works as a producer and director on the show, but says he still gets his hands dirty, and even plays a walker himself from time to time. Amusement parks and the yearly hype around Halloween are burgeoning industries that help cultivate young talent, says Nicotero. “A lot of the people who work on The Walking Dead started at a local haunted house attraction, they get their skills making masks and doing makeups,” he explains. “It’s a tremendous proving ground and one you can practically find in your backyard.”A lot of the talented young people he sees are women. “When I was growing up I think gore was more taboo. Seeing people being eaten and disemboweled and killed on screen, that was a male fascination.” Not any more. And any final advice? “Just try not to get overexcited about putting blood all over everything and cover up beautiful work – it can be very tempting to go crazy.” If you want to see Nicotero’s work in action, The Walking Dead is broadcast on Fox in the UK on Mondays at 9pm.Looking for a job? Browse Guardian Jobs or sign up to Guardian Careers for the latest job vacancies and career advice