Once you’ve mastered the basics of Pokémon Go, advanced to curve balls and tried your luck in gyms, it’s time to turn it up a notch and start exploiting the game to boost your chances of being a champion.There’s nothing illegal about these tips, but some may find them unsporting. Others rely on them to get an edge over their competitors. Here are five tips to help give you a boost.1. Pidgey stacking      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Many Pidgey preparing for a mass evolution session. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIncreasing the level of your trainer is crucial to get access to both higher level Pokémon and the tools to catch them. Above level 20 you gain access to Ultra balls, which make life a lot easier when trying to keep hold of the rarer beasts. Levelling up can be a bit of a slow grind, but Pidgey stacking can boost your trainer by at least one level.It’s pretty simple. All you need are lots of Pidgey and a lucky egg. Low powered Pidgey are plentiful in most places and require only 12 candies to evolve into Pidgeotto, an act that normally gives you 500XP. With a lucky egg active, which doubles your XP for 30 minutes that becomes 1,000XP per evolution.By collecting loads of them and evolving as many as possible in 30 minutes with a lucky egg you can set somewhere in the region of 30,000 to 40,000XP at full burn with a strong internet connection. At lower levels that’s enough to jump at least one, possibly two levels. After you’re done with all the Pidgey, just trade in the resulting Pidgeotto to start collecting candies to do it again.You can use any Pokémon that can evolve, of course, but Pidgey is the most candy efficient given its abundance.2. Hidden value calculations      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Silph Road Pokémon Go community’s individual value calculator Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianNot all Pokémon are created equally, that much is obvious. But what you might not know is that two Pokémon of the same type and level are also not equal. Each monster has a series of hidden values that dictate how much HP and CP it has per level, as well as its secret energy rating, which determines how long it takes for the special attack energy bar to fill up.These so-called individual values (IVs) cannot be directly interrogated, but using some calculations based on the health and power of a particular Pokémon for its given level, you can infer them. By doing so you can work out which Pokémon are worth spending time improving using stardust and evolution candy and which are not.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nintendo market value surges $7.5bn after Pokémon Go releaseWhen you get to a high level with your trainer, these IVs can make around a 10-15% in both HP and CP, which when your Pokémon are maxed out, could mean the difference between beating rivals and losing battles in the gym.There are several ways to use IVs, with the simplest being to compare Pokémon of a same type and similar level to see which has the higher CP and HP values. But for those that want to take it further, an IV calculator is required.The best is arguably that created by Reddit Pokémon Go community, the Silph Road, which has been conducting research into various attributes of Pokémon Go.The IV rater allows you to quickly estimate how good your Pokémon can be, and whether it is worth hanging on to, simply by moving some sliders.There are others, including an IV calculator app for Android, although they may or may not be accurate they are worth using if you’re serious about trying to take over and hold gyms as you reach the highest trainer levels.3. Eevee evolution      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eevee’s evolution into Vaporeon. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOne of the more powerful and easier to get Pokémon in the game are the evolved forms of Eevee, but unlike most other beasts in the game, Eevee has three different evolved forms in Pokémon Go.Eevee can become the fire-based Flareon, the electricity-based Jolteon or the water-based Vaporeon. They’re all solid in their own ways, with some being more effective in certain situations than others. But the most powerful for both attack and defence of the lot is Vaporeon.To choose, rather than have Eevee randomly evolve into one of them, you have to rename your Eevee after one of the Eevee brothers from the Pokémon TV show before evolving it.Calling it Pyro spawns a Flareon, while Sparky becomes a Jolteon and Rainer a Vaporeon. Rename Eevee, hit save and then reload the Pokémon Go app just to make sure the name saved. Then evolve the renamed Eevee to net yourself your desired Pokémon.This should work at least once, but your milage may vary. Make sure you check out the IVs of the Eevee you’re planning to evolve to make sure you’ve got a top-notch one before using all your candy.4. Leave your phone plugged in on a desk for constant walking for eggs      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Every little step helps when trying to eat up the kilometres for hatching eggs. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianHatching eggs is one of the best ways to get powerful Pokémon, but if you don’t walk for your commute or in your general day, it can be hard to clock up the kilometres required to incubate them.You might find, however, that if you leave your smartphone plugged in and on a desk, that your location wanders around, enough to add up to half a kilometre a day to your walking total in my testing depending on how accurate the smartphone can put your location. Every little helps, particularly if you don’t have a drone to hand.5. Pokémon appearance maps      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pokévision is just one of a few sites and apps that promise to show you where and for how long Pokémon appear. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOnce you’ve caught your 100th Pidgey, unless you’re Pidgey stacking, you’re probably after some of the more rare Pokémon. You could aimlessly wander the streets or rely on word of mouth, but if you’re less keen on clocking up the kilometres, there’s a better way.Various maps or radar apps have popped up that promise to show where Pokémon are and for how long at any given moment. Having tested Pokévision, I’ve found it accurate on over 10 occasions for various Pokémon.Putting in your location and searching will bring up all the Pokémon around you, but you can narrow down your search to specific Pokémon and search a much wider area. You still have to put the leg work into getting there before the timer runs out, but Pokévision, and others like it, should help take the guess work out of catching the less common varieties of Pokémon.What’s a Pokémon Go gym and how do I master them?Pokémon Go: eight advanced tips to prepare you for gyms14 essential tips to get you started in Pokémon GoIs Pokémon Go good for your health? – video