After the death of Carrie Fisher, who died aged 60 in Los Angeles on Tuesday, tributes from her co-stars and Hollywood peers have been appearing on social media. Her Star Wars co-star Harrison Ford released a statement saying Fisher was a “one-of-a-kind” who lived her life “bravely”, adding: “My thoughts are with her daughter Billie, her mother Debbie, her brother Todd and her many friends. We will all miss her.” George Lucas released a statement which read: “Carrie and I have been friends most of our adult lives. She was extremely smart; a talented actress, writer and comedienne with a very colorful personality that everyone loved.”Share your tributes and memories of Carrie Fisher In Star Wars she was our great and powerful princess – feisty, wise and full of hope in a role that was more difficult than most people might think. My heart and prayers are with Billie, Debbie and all Carrie’s family, friends and fans. She will be missed by all.”Steven Spielberg also paid tribute: “I have always stood in awe of Carrie. Her observations always made me laugh and gasp at the same time. She didn’t need The Force. She was a force of nature, of loyalty and of friendship. I will miss her very much.” Other members of the original Star Wars cast – including Billy Dee Williams, who played Lando Calrissian, and Anthony Daniels, who played C-3PO – paid their respects on Twitter.Billy Dee Williams (@realbdw)I'm deeply saddened at the news of Carrie's passing. She was a dear friend, whom I greatly respected and admired. The force is dark today!December 27, 2016Anthony Daniels (@ADaniels3PO)I thought I had got what I wanted under the tree. I didn't. In spite of so many thoughts and prayers from so many. I am very, very sad.December 27, 2016Bob Iger, chairman and CEO of The Walt Disney Company, which now produces the Star Wars films, told Deadline: “Carrie Fisher was one-of-a-kind, a true character who shared her talent and her truth with us all with her trademark wit and irreverence.”He added: “Millions fell in love with her as the indomitable Princess Leia; she will always have a special place in the hearts of Star Wars fans as well as all of us who were lucky enough to know her personally. She will be sorely missed, and we join millions of fans and friends around the world who mourn her loss today.”Sharon Horgan, who convinced Fisher to play the role of her mother-in-law on her sitcom Catastrophe, posted a tribute on Instagram. Carrie was my friend. It took me three series but I got her in the end. She was the most generous, fun, gifted, smart, kind, funny funny funny person I've ever met. She certainly wasn't ready to go. I'm so glad we became pals. I'm so devastated at her loss. I want to write about her more but I can't process yet.A photo posted by Sharon Horgan (@sharonhorgan) on Dec 27, 2016 at 10:42am PSTFriends from outside the world of Star Wars also paid tribute, with William Shatner and Seth MacFarlane, who worked with Fisher on Family Guy, posting on Twitter.William Shatner (@WilliamShatner)I'm deeply saddened to learn of the death of Carrie Fisher. I will miss our banterings. A wonderful talent & light has been extinguished.December 27, 2016Seth MacFarlane (@SethMacFarlane)Carrie Fisher was smart, funny, talented, surprising, and always a hell of a fun time to be around. Family Guy will miss her immensely.December 27, 2016Fisher earned a 2007 Emmy nomination for her role as an out-of-sorts comedy writer on 30 Rock, and Tina Fey, the show’s creator, released a statement on Fisher’s influence:“Carrie Fisher meant a lot to me. Like many women my age, Princess Leia occupies about sixty percent of my brain at any given time. But Carrie’s honest writing and her razor-sharp wit were an even greater gift. I feel so lucky that I got to meet her. I’m very sad she is gone.”Speaking to the Guardian, two directors who worked with Fisher on early films also paid tribute. Woody Allen, who directed Fisher in 1986’s Hannah and Her Sisters – in which she plays the more successful best friend of Dianne Weist – called her “one of the brightest and wittiest actresses I worked with”. “Such a tragic loss,” he added.Meanwhile John Landis, in whose Blues Brothers Fisher featured as the violent former girlfriend of John Belushi, said he and his wife, Deborah, were both “heartbroken over Carrie’s passing”. Other stars including Whoopi Goldberg, Stephen Fry and comedian Margaret Cho also posted about Fisher’s death.Whoopi Goldberg (@WhoopiGoldberg)Carrie Fisher has passed, she was funnier&smarter than anyone had the right to be. Sail On Silver Girl. Condolences Debbie & BillieR.I.P.December 27, 2016Stephen Fry (@stephenfry)She was the brightest, funniest, bravest, kindest, cleverest and sweetest person I ever knew. A crushing blow to lose @carrieffisherDecember 27, 2016Margaret Cho (@margaretcho)We just lost a great ally for mental health and addiction. Be strong, be as strong as she'd want you to be. Rest in paradise @carrieffisher pic.twitter.com/vxDJkVag06December 27, 2016Albert Brooks (@AlbertBrooks)R.I.P. Carrie Fisher. A brilliantly funny, talented woman. We will miss your humor now more than ever.December 27, 2016