“Where I find you badda? There where that white tower, pointy one ...”Two countrymen from up north, we meet at the Arts Centre in Melbourne to yarn up about Jack’s upcoming disruptive ritual during the Yirramboi First Nations Arts festival, which opened on Friday. This place, which was once a waterfall and sacred site but is now marked by a tall white tower set in concrete and brick, will be ground zero on 13 May at 1pm, for a roaming symbolic battle along the streets from the Arts Centre Melbourne to the state library.Jack Sheppard, a young Kurtjar/Kunjen man from far north Queensland who is an actor and dancer trained at Naisda Dance College, is finishing a fight that was begun over a century ago with a brutal attack on his family.Indigenous performing arts is a testament to collective drive and vision | IndigenousX  Protocol always comes before business of course, so we sit with our cappuccinos and make our connections there beneath that white steel tower, alongside pigeons and seagulls fighting for scraps. We find our kin relationship through our connected brolga and black cockatoo totems. We find joy in the hard “th” sounds of our speech, in language sounds we seldom hear this far south. Our yarn moves on to the magpie geese that migrate each year from Cape York to Victoria, following song lines magnetised as pathways in the sky. Magnetised is the right word for it, we think. We reflect on our own journeys over the years from north to south along those same lines our ancestors have travelled for trade since time out of memory. Those geese are still doing it and so are we.I make a joke about his new mohawk haircut, laughing that it looks like he’s going to war. He laughs back, “I am going to war!” So we get serious, get down to business, and he tells me the story of his century-old battle.In 1892, 22 men, four women and one child were forcibly abducted and placed in chains by a Scot called Archibald Meston, who would later become the chief protector of Aborigines. The people he abducted were from the lands of the Wakaya, Kuthant, Kurtjar, Arapa, Walangama, Mayikulan, Kabi Kabi, Kalkadoon and also from Muralag in the Torres Strait. Jack’s family were among the abductees.They were forced to rehearse traditional and choreographed dances in the canefields where the University of Queensland stands today. The dances were to be the highlight of a travelling show. This “Wild Australia” performance went on to tour Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne to great acclaim, enriching Meston through the exploitation of his captives. At each stop, the men were forced to pose for colonial propaganda photos depicting native police massacring their “savage” countrymen – the message being, “Hey, we’re not perpetrating this genocide; the savages are killing each other!”   Dancer Jack Sheppard, whose relatives were among 27 Indigenous Australians who performed in the Wild Australia tour Sheppard is recreating for Yirramboi festival. Photograph: SuppliedWhile the show enjoyed huge success, it seemed the appalling treatment of Meston’s performers became less and less socially acceptable the further south they travelled. At last, during the Melbourne tour, somebody complained about the dancers being chained up and there was a public outcry. The program was defunded as a result, and Meston disbanded the troupe, then returned to Queensland to count his gold. The dancers were freed from their shackles but abandoned in Melbourne to fend for themselves. Facing starvation and illness, they earned money for their return trip home by performing. They became buskers, running their own show in an inspiring act of agency and self-determination. At each stop, they earned enough to feed themselves and travel to the next town, on and on until they reached home.Jack’s eyes lose focus here at the end of the story. I get the impression a thousand images are flickering before his eyes, both digital and ancestral. He sighs and reflects with devastating honesty that this was how Aboriginal arts and performance was born. “We never had arts before,” he says. “We just lived it.” Slumping in his seat, he struggles to explain the way our culture now is framed through the lens of arts and tourism, the way we are still shackled and forced to perform twisted versions of our culture for the invaders if we wish to practise it at all.Jack straightens up then and talks about his upcoming battle on the streets, his fight to repatriate his culture and get payback. In his performance piece, part of the day-long Barring Yanabul series of free surprise events unfolding through the city, he will join a group of Indigenous men, painted up with ochre and shackled as his ancestors were. They will move as a group through the streets in a shocking re-enactment of the Wild Australia show, but at each stop will bellow poetry they have written about the shame of this forgotten piece of history, shouting it through the streets of Melbourne.He laughs grimly about the idea of this “unsettling the settlers”, then speaks passionately about the way this kind of reclamation of cultural expression and liberation from the colonising junta of the arts industry represents for him the spirit of the Yirramboi festival.Before he leaves for rehearsals, he tells me his grandmother is now in her 90s. When he told her about his plans for the show, she nodded and smiled a big, beautiful smile. And to me, that means that whether this battle is won or lost, he’s already won the war.• Jack Sheppard’s Wild Australia Tour, and accompanying performances, will be roving between Arts Centre Melbourne and the state library from 1pm on 13 May, during Barring Yanabul. Yirramboi First Nations festival is being held until 14 May• The University of Queensland Anthropology Museum’s exhibition Wild Australia. Meston’s Wild Australia 1892-1893, showing photographs of the original tour, will be at the Grafton Regional Gallery in NSW from 12 May – 10 June.• Tyson Yunkaporta took part in the Blak Critics series of workshops presented by Yirramboi and Guardian Australia