He is known as the grandfather of Quebecois cinema, his name still garlanding the Canadian province’s annual equivalent of the Oscars more than three decades after the actor and celebrated director drowned himself in the St Lawrence River, aged 56. But Claude Jutra’s legacy as a Canadian film icon has been called into question following the publication of a new book that claims he was a paedophile.Film historian Yves Lever’s biography of Jutra, who was openly gay, claims the director of Mon Oncle Antoine and Kamouraska regularly had sex with boys as young as 14 and 15, and in one case under 14. In a section titled plainly “Claude Jutra and boys”, Lever writes: “During shoots, especially those in the country, promiscuity renders secrets impossible to keep. People quickly perceived Jutra had a penchant for younger boys.”The biographer told Radio-Canada he had discovered early on in his research that it was common knowledge among film industry peers that Jutra was a paedophile. “I confirmed it again and again with many people, at least 10. I have the evidence,” he said. The director, Lever said, was known to pick up underage prostitutes in Carré Saint-Louis, a Montreal park not far from his home. The revelations have sent shockwaves through the Canadian film industry as hundreds of Quebecois actors and directors have received Prix Jutra prizes. In the wake of the allegations, the annual ceremony’s organiser, Québec Cinéma, has reportedly held an emergency meeting to discuss changing the name of the award.At least two friends of Jutra have since stepped forward to confirm the allegations of paedophilia, according to the Canadian Globe and Mail. “Claude had relationships with young boys, yes. Young adolescents, including one who spoke English, would come to his place,” actor Marc Béland told Radio-Canada. “It was his life, it is nobody’s business until someone steps forward to say they were abused. It’s grotesque.”Other friends have defended Jutra against the allegations. Author and screenwriter Guy Fournier said it was easy to accuse someone who had been dead for 30 years of crimes when they were not around to defend themselves. “If you desecrate a tomb or a corpse, it’s a crime. If you desecrate the memory of someone, no one will sue you. The only guy who could is dead,” he said.“All Lever says is that he talked to people who studied the way Claude Jutra acted sexually,” added Fournier. “What the hell does that even mean? Why would you accuse someone on so little grounds?” Writing in La Presse, columnist Mario Girard pondered how film industry professionals knew of Jutra’s sexual predilections, but chose not to condemn the director. “Attaching the word ‘paedophile’ to the one who has given his name to a trophy is a painful act. But necessary,” he wrote. “We have to stop dressing up this sort of situation when an artist is involved. Contrary to what many think, they do not benefit from a kind of immunity in this area.”Jutra was diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease in the early 1980s. He is believed to have committed suicide by jumping from the Jacques-Cartier Bridge linking Montreal and Longueuil on 5 November 1986, though his body was not recovered until April the following year. A note in his pocket read simply: “Je m’appelle Claude Jutra.”