This autumn, and running into the new year, there are three free exhibitions worth catching. Each explores the history of science, technology or medicine in different ways, linking them to art, literature and popular, high or alternate cultures.Because I live in London, all three are in the south east. Please feel free to add your recommendations in the comments. Among permanent displays that I’ve seen this year, I recommend: the newly refurbished science and technology galleries at the National Museum of Scotland, the quirky fascination of Whitby Museum (where else do you get to see a replica leech-powered Tempest Prognosticator alongside displays of corals and exquisitely worked jet?) and the nearby gem of the Captain Cook Museum.Victorians Decoded: Art and TelegraphyGuildhall Art Gallery, London, to 22 January 2017      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Word from the Missing James Clarke Hook, 1877, pictures messages carried over a distance. Photograph: Guildhall Art GalleryThis exhibition marks the 150th anniversary of the laying of a Transatlantic telegraph cable, part of a 19th-century communications and transport revolution that changed the way that people imagined the world. The exhibition is linked to a large interdisciplinary academic project – Scrambled Messages – that explores how the dramatic failures and successes of the attempts to lay the submarine cable captured the popular imagination.The exhibition draws chiefly on the Victorian art collections of the Guildhall and the historic scientific instrument collection of Kings College London, to explore the themes of Distance, Resistance, Transmission and Coding. Some of the paintings are on display for the first time; others are rarely put next to each other or within this context. We do not tend to think of Edwin Landseer or James Tissot in connection with galvanometers and transmitters, yet they certainly lived within and responded to this changing world.Making connections: how Victorian artists plugged into telegraphy In many cases the choice and interpretation of the artworks is down to metaphor rather than direct connections to the telegraph story. “Resistance”, for example, refers to that of the 2754km of copper cables, which scientists and engineers were still in the process of understanding. However, it is also the “resistance” offered by nature, which seamen as well as engineers fought to overcome, giving reason to display stormy and icy seascapes.While I was happy to let literalism go to explore such concepts, and elsewhere paintings of steam vessels clearly depicted the changing world, I was a little more pushed to accept the tenuous connections offered in “Transmission” (I cannot be convinced that a Victorian reimagining of the rescue – or “transferral” – of a child from a plague-ridden house in 17th-century London tells us about responses to telegraphy, however much you tell me about the “transmission” of disease, continuance of family lines or cable-like connections linking the figures in the painting).As a historian, I was more at ease with sections that set out the story of the cable and showed evidence of the popular response (it is nice that visitors can leaf through a genuine 19th-century volume of the Illustrated London News). I was pleased too to see the equipment and instruments of Charles Wheatstone and others – some of the copper and brass buffs up well enough to grace any gallery. Fans of the Tempest Prognosticator and steampunk will love the one modern artwork/machine: The Great Grammatizor.It is well worth a visit, for those interested in Victorian Britain or Victorian science and the changes they wrought. Come with an open mind, ready to roam the links and metaphors on offer. Wonderfully, the exhibition catalogue is freely available online so that you can also wrangle with the fascinating ideas from the comfort of your living room.Colour: The Art and Science of Illuminated ManuscriptsThe Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, to 2 January 2017, and online exhibition      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illuminated initial from manuscript showing Louis XII healing the sick (c. 1500). Analysis showed that damaged azurite areas in the king’s robe and letter had been repainted in cobalt blue, only available in the 19th century. Photograph: Michael Jones/The Fitzwilliam MuseumIf the Guildhall Art Gallery collections are surprisingly full of Victorian seascapes and steam ships, the Fitzwilliam’s are well known to be a treasury of medieval illuminated manuscripts. They are, though, rarely displayed in such numbers, with such luminosity or with such good exploration of how their images were created. This exhibition, as a showcase for collections and research, is an apt celebration for the Museum’s bicentenary.Science and technology enter the exhibition in two complementary ways. First, there are the cutting-edge techniques used by curators, scientists and conservators (particularly via two academic projects, Cambridge Illuminations and MINIARE) to analyse the illuminations. These techniques are explained in the exhibition and the results used, together with historical and curatorial insights, throughout. Secondly, there is the knowledge, craft and technology of the medieval artists.Colour: The Art and Science of Illuminated Manuscripts review – a rainbow of agony and ecstasy The artists did not simply use whatever came to hand to colour and decorate their manuscripts, although local plants and minerals might lead to characteristic traditions. Rather, the pigments used, and the way they were used, evidence international trade and carefully learned and shared skills. Different organic and inorganic materials might be layered to achieve desired effects – intensity, luminosity or modelling – or carefully separated to prevent reactions and discolouration.Knowledge of the natural world and ability to experiment with its products were essential to the production of these manuscripts. Although medieval worldviews are undeniably remote from us today, it was – at least in courts and monasteries that could support it – a world of knowledge, curiosity, discussion and artistic vision. 150 illuminated manuscripts are quite a lot but I found that I wanted to look at and read about each – take your time, and take advantage of the available magnifying glasses.Bedlam: The Asylum and BeyondWellcome Collection, London, to 15 January 2017      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Asylum’ by Eva Kotatkova, opening artwork at Bedlam: The Asylum and Beyond. Photograph: Facundo Arrizabalaga/EPABedlam looks at the history and possible futures of asylums and mental hospitals and explores the changing and varied experiences of patients, often through their art and writing. The main focus is Bedlam – the Bethleham, now Bethlem Royal, Hospital – in its different locations and guises: medieval Bishopsgate, early modern and then Enlightenment Moorfields, 19th-century Southwark and 20th-century West Wickham – but speaks more broadly to changing attitudes over time The displays show both the legal and cultural changes in the treatment of “lunaticks” or mental health patients. By the 17th century, Bedlam had become part of the London tourist route and was often described or depicted in poems and on stage. The displays include William Hogarth’s 1730s engraving, where fashionable women observe the raving Tom Rakewell (of Hogarth’s series, The Rake’s Progress) and other lunatics.Bedlam: The Asylum and Beyond review – missed opportunity to truly explore mental health Elsewhere Bedlam is shown to have been used to scare audiences, to celebrate London’s magnanimity or as satiric contrast to the evils of modern life and politics. Our treatment of mental health is, of course, a reflection on our society. The exhibition goes on to explore changing ideas, such as the move to country asylums, hospital villages and the reactions to new drug and electric therapies, rejection of hospitals and possible revival of supportive communities.The rejection of, and perhaps amnesia surrounding, asylums is wonderfully conveyed with the frankly surreal marketing brochure for the converted Friern Barnet Asylum. The developers write of “the glory of Victorian England” and state that they “have a tradition for respecting history and using the best values of a bygone age to add dignity and exclusivity to modern life”. They do not mention the former use of the building.Art and writing is used to explore the theme, but is also, as therapy, appeal or protest, a theme in its own right. There are, for example, drawings by Jakob Mohr from 1910 depicting his belief that he was being attacked by electric waves, and painstaking 1850s embroideries by Mary Frances Heaton, that are petitions protesting her incarceration. I was particularly taken by James Tilly Matthews’s beautiful 1811 architectural plans and notes, suggesting, from the patient’s point of view, a new building for Bethlem.Although not discussed in the London exhibition, Matthews was also subject of John Haslam’s Illustrations of Madness, which gave his account of his experiences and “hallucinations”. He believed a gang of spies and criminals were tormenting him with an “Air Loom”, powered by pneumatics to influence and torture people with “magnetic fluid”. Subject of a book by Mike Jay (who is also co-curator of the exhibition), the Air Loom has been imagined and recreated by artist Rod Dickinson in an installation that can be viewed at the Bethlem Museum of the Mind until 25 February 2017.This is a thought-provoking exhibition that uses history, art and literature to explore a difficult subject. It does well to challenge assumptions and to show what attitudes and values are reflected in, and in our treatment of, mental illness.