1. I Should Be So Lucky In the accidentally revisionist wonderland of Spotify, Kylie Minogue’s career begins in 1994: post soap-opera-poppet-turned-pop-star conversion, post Stock, Aitken and Waterman machine music, post Michael Hutchence, post innocence. It forgets the new Olivia Newton John who beamed on to Top of the Pops in January 1988, singing a carefree, breezy song about being unlucky in love and reaching No 1 across Europe with it. Nearly a quarter of a century later, Minogue revisited her first UK chart-topper for an album of jazz reworkings of her back catalogue: an idea that played to the image of her as a filmic, tragic blonde, with mixed results. The slow version of this song sounded majestic, though, tilting its head to the tabloids’ obsession with the narrative of her life – poor Kylie, never married, it’s so sad – but also adding a depth to those lyrics that comes only with age and experience. The original, linked to above, is a bouncy, peppy keeper. The version in our playlist is a heart-melter.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I Should Be So Lucky, live on Kylie’s 2005 Showgirl tour2. Better the Devil You Know Minogue has often been at her most comfortable underneath a glitterball, either as a knowing camp icon or a sly, space-age cipher. This is her as the former, a party girl, her perfect teeth glinting in the neon of the nightclub. Her association with Stock, Aitken and Waterman continued until her fourth album, Let’s Get to It (1991), and only a few of those songs stand time’s tests: Got to Be Certain (1988) is still adorably sweet, Hand on Your Heart (1989) still perfect bubblegum with a brilliant chorus, and Step Back in Time and Shocked (both 1991) still bounce hard. Then there’s this: one of her most effortless, glorious floor-fillers, ticking the pop-writing rulebook with a fine, golden nib. An unexpected key change with a glorious resolution before the chorus! A descending Abba piano! Enough surging “woah woah woahs” to keep everyone wailing euphorically along! Our Spotify playlist takes the live version from the 2006 Showgirl tour – it remains a mainstay of Minogue’s live shows. 3. Confide in Me (Master Mix) After three years off, and having struck a new deal with Deconstruction Records, Minogue returned with her greatest, strangest hit. Its first 50 seconds is all strings, slowness and Middle Eastern harmonies, before it pivots off the hook of an early-80s cult classic (the melody of Jane and Barton’s It’s a Fine Day, already revisited a few years earlier on Opus III’s rave-era hit). Then come drumbeats sampled from a 1974 Jimmy Smith jazz cover of Barry White’s I’m Gonna Love You Just a Little Bit More, Babe. The effect is utterly mesmerising, and Kylie is in total control from the off, telling you she “can keep a secret / And throw away the key”. Later she turns the middle eight into a particularly pervy-sounding card game (“Stick or twist / The choice is yours”), and also plays with the idea of her fame (“Hit or miss / The choice is yours”). Spotify also has the French version of the song, for extra sauce points.4. Put Yourself in My Place The second single from Kylie Minogue (1994) saw its maker mastering the pop ballad. She had never managed it before. Early covers such as Tears on My Pillow were limp, weedy efforts, while her biggest attempt up to that point, If You Were With Me Now (1991) with US R&B singer Keith Washington, felt teeth-grindingly, gran-pleasingly, middle of the road. This starts slowly and thoughtfully, Minogue taking us through the news that her old love has found another (“I hear that you’re in love now, babe. I don’t know what to say”) before building intensely and persuasively to the moment just before the chorus, where the song’s central lyric pours forth in a leap of melodic loveliness … and our girl tries to convince the boy who has departed to think about where he’d rather be. Criminally, and despite the cheeky video featuring a red-haired Minogue as a stripping Barbarella, this only made it to No 11, rather than being No 1 for a year.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Put Yourself in My Place5. Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds – Where the Wild Roses GrowNick Cave had loved his countrywoman for years, having carried a pink and baby blue Kylie tour bag around interviews in 1992. (He found it on tour in Manchester, after having been given “this drug that made me like people … [The bag] spoke to me. It held such promise, sent shivers up my spine.”) Turning a pop princess into a folk ballad murder victim was an interesting, if slightly demeaning idea, but the best thing about Minogue’s contribution here is how much power she takes. The beginning of the song is Kylie at her very best, full of theatre, offering a tender, ghostly foil to her counterpart’s growl; Mark Lanegan and Isobel Campbell probably learned a lot from this partnership. This moment also launched indie Kylie, who has aged well. Other corkers include her cover of Saint Etienne’s Nothing Can Stop Us, while Some Kind of Bliss (1997), written for Minogue by the Manic Street Preachers, is given a fire and light it wouldn’t have had if it were performed by its makers.6. Pet Shop Boys – In Denial A curio, but a worthy one. Also, another perfect collaboration, and not just because we get to hear gay icon Kylie singing these rather bold lines: “You’re not admitting you should be quitting all these queens and fairies / And muscle Marys / The rough trade boyfriend who in his pathetic own way / Denies he’s gay.” In this track from Pet Shop Boys’1999 album Nightlife, Neil Tennant plays Gay Dad in the closet, while Kylie plays lonely, angry daughter. The conceit shouldn’t work but it does, with both singers’ imperfect, keening voices heightening the tenderness that rises along with the synthesised strings. It almost makes you forget Kids with Robbie Williams, Only You on the Kylie Christmas album with James Corden, and Especially for You … Oh, who am I kidding? I was 10 in 1988, and the opening “ooh-ooh-oohs” of Especially for You still turn me into soup.7. Can’t Get Blue Monday Out of My HeadAfter Spinning Around brought Kylie back into the big league, peak cool Kylie emerged sparkling and glorious at the 2001 Brits on a turning wheel accompanied by the opening electronic bassline of Blue Monday. At last: a pop mainstay acknowledging an underground trend – bootleg and mashup culture – and getting it right. Then there was the song behind the New Order nod, an oddly stark but gargantuan minor-key epic, unfurling to a futuristic electronic bassline and a thousand dispassionate sci-fi “la la las”. It was written by an unlikely couple brought together by Pop Idol music mogul Simon Fuller – 80s pop star Cathy Dennis and Rob Davis, once the guitarist with glamrockers Mud. They wrote it on the second day of their partnership, over snacks in Davis’s kitchen, using primitive computer software Cubase: Dennis had thought up a drum idea inspired by Run DMC’s It’s Like That. Can’t Get You Out of My Head was rejected for S Club 7, and turned down by Sophie Ellis-Bextor. It hit No 1 in every European country except Finland, became Minogue’s first US Top 10 hit for a decade, and remains her only single to sell more than a million copies in the UK.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the Brits mashup of Blue Monday and Can’t Get You Out of My Head8. Slow Another agenda-setting song placing Minogue against a stark, dark electronic beat, and revealing her at her power-grabbing, sultry best. The chorus line takes a lyrical idea that goes back to pop’s roots (Hello, the Shangri-Las’ Give Him a Great Big Kiss: “How does he dance? Close … very, very close”) and makes it glossily, blankly hyper-modern (“Come on dance with me … yeah … slow”). It was co-written by Emilíana Torrini, who would go on to release the acclaimed folk-influenced LP Fisherman’s Woman, the following year. However, this was a golden period for Kylie the dance queen. Come Into My World’s Fischerspooner remix is another total banger, as is Mylo’s remix of the celestial Scissor Sisters’ co-write, I Believe in You. Tricky also covered Slow brilliantly on Knowle West Boy (2008), turning it into a huge, but still filthy, rock monster.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Slow9. The OneA year after her breast cancer diagnosis, Minogue returned to pop music, resuming the Showgirl tour in Australia in November 2006, and writing and recording her 10th album, X. This was a late single from the album, but one that sounds utterly defiant and glorious a decade on, mixing just the right amounts of melancholy and majesty, campness and celebration. There’s a “star in the galaxy making its way to the heart of me”, sings Kylie before begging us to love her repeatedly in the chorus – not that she has to try too hard.10. Crystallise Kylie has released some great singles in the last few years, although few of them have done any glittery business. The best is Skirt (released through Beatport, and sadly not available on Spotify), a properly filthy slice of EDM featuring Kylie shouting, “DOWN DOWN DOWN” like a half-cut Barbara Woodhouse. It was meant to be a teaser for 2014’s underwhelming Kiss Me Once but was beaten on to the album by other attempts at perviness, such as the horribly titled Sexercise. Crystallise was co-written with Blood Orange’s Dev Hynes and Scissor Sisters’ Babydaddy, and it’s a beautiful pop confection. It combines the two things Our Kylie has always done best – the endless, fantastical possibilities of the glitter of the disco and huge, soppy lashings of melancholy. Thanks, Kylie. We don’t know how lucky, lucky, lucky we are. 