What’s the name of this show? Animal Kingdom.When does it premiere? The first two of 10 episodes air on TNT on Tuesday 14 June at 9pm ET. Wasn’t Animal Kingdom a movie? Yes. Jacki Weaver was nominated for an Oscar in 2010 after playing the manipulative mother of an Australian crime family. Jonathan Lisco, of Southland and Halt and Catch Fire, developed it for American television. First look: Animal Kingdom TV adaptation moves the Cody family to California Is it still about the manipulative mother of an Australian crime family? No, now it’s about the manipulative mother of a California crime family. Huge difference there. Ellen Barkin plays the matriarch, Smurf (yeah, it gets annoying pretty quick). Oh my God, Ellen Barkin! Is she amazing? She does a perfect job playing the kind of mother who would steal a shirt from her dead daughter’s dresser, wear it to her funeral, and then lie to her grandson when he asks her about it. I was hoping she would be a little bit more over-the-top campy, but it’s better for the show that she’s not. What happens? Smurf’s estranged daughter dies of a drug overdose and her teenage son J (Finn Cole from Peaky Blinders) calls his grandmother so that he can come live with her. The house also contains her three sons and an inordinate number of jet skis. When a heist at a jewelry store goes bad and the crew ends up killing a cop by accident, J is lured into the family business and all of the violence and suspicion that goes along with it.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Who else is in the family? Baz (Scott Speedman) is the eldest and most well-adjusted brother and has a girlfriend and a daughter of his own. Craig (Ben Robson) is a speed addict who acts erratically and sleeps with hookers. Deran (Jake Weary) is a closet case who doesn’t think he’s getting his fair share of the profits. In the first episode, Pope (Shawn Hatosy) returns from a three-year sentence in jail. He’s super creepy and mentally unbalanced and all of his siblings hate him. The family is wildly inappropriate. There are always pool parties at Smurf’s, where she encourages J to jump off the roof into the pool, even though he doesn’t really want to. When she asks Craig to suss J’s willingness to be a thief, he concocts a beef with some surfers and then forces J to pull a gun on them. On J’s first morning in the house, Craig wakes up naked with two women in his bed and goes into the kitchen, still naked, to smash his mother’s juicer because it has woken him up. No one seems to notice or care that he’s naked except J, because he is the only person there with boundaries. The Cody clan actually spends a lot of time getting naked in front of each other. It’s pretty weird. Is this show any good? It really wants to be and comes at viewers with the full barrage of antiheroes, bad behavior and bare butts that we’ve come to expect out of prestige television. It also looks fantastic, finding a way to make the southern California sun look menacing and the moneyed blue-collar milieu convincing. But below that sheeny surface, there isn’t anything that audiences haven’t seen before. Animal Kingdom fills the place of hyper-masculine prestige television that has been vacant ever since Sons of Anarchy went off the air. Everything here is some sort of bro-tastic competition, whether it’s a surfing excursion, Craig showing off popping wheelies on his motorcycle, J and Deran trying to see who can hold his breath longer, or Pope and Deran fighting underwater during a “friendly” game of basketball in the pool. But all of that untamed id doesn’t really go anywhere other than exploring a bizarre and nihilistic family dynamic. It’s sort of like Brothers & Sisters except there aren’t any sisters, everyone carries a handgun and has multiple tattoos, and their dinner parties all end with snorting white powder off a glass coffee table. Smurf claims that none of them have any secrets, though that clearly isn’t the case. Still, she’s such a master manipulator that when she finds out about these secrets, she can quietly enact her revenge. She is a fascinating character, but she doesn’t seem to be in the service of anything greater or more ambitious than a bunch of dudes trying to figure out who has the biggest sack.Are all of the actors as good as Barkin? The actors who play the brothers are all serviceable in a bunch of roles that are hardly differentiated (except for Pope). The big problem, though, is Cole’s J, who has about as many expressions as a human being has thumbs and a sort of stone-faced delivery that could earn him a seat on Mt Rushmore. Should I watch this show? If you are into guys racing around and showing off their testosterone levels on all sorts of modes of conveyance, then this is the show for you. It’s a hollow Twinkie meant to make surfer dudes shout “cool!” at their oversized TV screens. For everyone else, Animal Kingdom is a pretty nondescript pass. 