For at least two decades, with stunning longevity, the persistence one might say of a Sicilian feud, much of British architecture has been divided into two camps. On one side the shape-makers, the iconists, the whooshers, Hadid, Alsop and their imitators, for whom no form is too extravagant; on the other the rectangularisers, the whisperers, the purveyors of calm, measured, careful order, who would rather impale themselves on an early-Zaha pointy handrail than do a dodgy detail.To which one wants to ask: is that all there is? Is there no architecture that can bare its soul without simultaneously crushing you with its ego, that stirs, moves, troubles, provokes, inspires? And is there no way of being controlled and passionate at the same time? Is there no other choice but blancmange or dry biscuits?A glimmer of an alternative is suggested by Mavericks: Breaking the Mould of British Architecture, an installation opening next week at the Royal Academy in London, with an accompanying book and programme of events. The installation is designed by the architect Alex Scott-Whitby, previously best known for proposing that the spires of City of London churches be adapted to make creative workspaces.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The great Charles Rennie Mackintosh’s Glasgow School of Art. Photograph: AlamyMavericks’ curator and author, Owen Hopkins, delves into history to identify a British tradition of architects determined to do things their own way, at any price, no matter what their peers might think. He argues that Britain has a way of being “at the tail end of adopting European cultural innovations” and “does so always on its own terms and for its own reasons”. He very much does not want to present these tendencies as a sideshow, but as essential to the development of British architecture.The installation and exhibition therefore include some of the greatest British architects: Robert Smythson, who designed the biggest and most astonishing Elizabethan palaces, John Vanbrugh, John Soane, Charles Rennie Mackintosh, James Stirling. Hadid, indeed, is included, although she is hardly an outsider any more. There are others less famous, though none exactly unknown to architectural history, such as the Ashmolean Museum’s designer CR Cockerell, and HS Goodhart-Rendel, who from the 1920s to the 1950s fused gothic, classical, art deco and modernism into unexpected combinations.“Maverick” is a general term and Hopkins tries to refine it. It doesn’t mean genius, he says, though several of his choices are, and it doesn’t just mean wacko, bizarre, way-out. He likes a bit of commitment in his mavericks, a lifelong effort to stay true to their outsider visions, whether or not they are rewarded by admission to the mainstream. Naturally there’s a degree of randomness in his choice, and his top dozen mavericks are not mine, nor probably those of any other architecture anorak. ‘Maverick’ is a dubious word. Like its close cousin, ‘English eccentric’, it diminishes and trivialises I’d have the polychromatic classicist John Outram, and Cuthbert Brodrick, the Hull-born maker of Leeds town hall and Scarborough’s Grand hotel, and Rodney Gordon, designer of mighty concrete monoliths, since demolished with municipal glee, in Gateshead and Portsmouth. I would put at the very centre Isi Metzstein and Andy MacMillan of the Glasgow firm of Gillespie, Kidd & Coia, creators of the near-instant ruin of St Peter’s seminary, Cardross, who were maverick in the very best sense: idiosyncratic, distinctive, unafraid and completely serious at the same time. I’d think about Ernest George Trobridge, the Swedenborgian vegetarian maker of miniature castles and Tudor mansions in the north-west London suburb of Kingsbury. Hopkins includes more subtle choices, and prefers architects who hover between classifications, not quite one style or another, like Charles Holden, who designed the best of the interwar tube stations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Subtle choice’: Senate House, University of London, by Charles Holden. Photograph: AlamyIn truth, though it has its uses for the Royal Academy’s project, “maverick” is a dubious word. Like its close cousin, the concept of the “English eccentric”, it diminishes and trivialises. It turns powerful and subversive art into whimsy, a bit of a giggle, with the implicit message that once we’ve all had our fun, we can get back to the grownup business of creating dull and soul-destroying buildings.Such shrinking is very much not Hopkins’s intent. He wants to champion architecture that is “not just a reflection of society and the world as it is, but has the potential to articulate the future, and perhaps even play a part in creating it”. He points to the dictionary definition of the M-word as “an unorthodox or independent-minded person”. He has put his finger on a void in contemporary architecture, an unsatisfied hunger for buildings whose personalities are both strong and interactive. FAT managed to be witty and provocative and professionally and conceptually serious at the same time The people who did it best in recent times were the architectural practice FAT, rightly included in Hopkins’s project. They managed to be witty, provocative, imaginative and engaging, and professionally and conceptually serious at the same time. You could love or hate their work, but at the very least it offered the possibility of an engagement, conversation, interaction. Their reward was a degree of fame and attention, but not a huge amount of work, and they disbanded two years ago, with the word “pranksters” carved even by sympathetic critics on their Google-search tombstone.Which suggests that it is as tough as it has ever been truly to do your own thing and challenge orthodoxy. Which means that Mavericks has an important message to deliver. It is also a shame that the installation will be quite modest and occupy a marginal space within the Royal Academy, which seems to confirm as much as challenge the status accorded to such work. To fill the RA’s main galleries with it: that would really be something. And to call these architects something other than “mavericks”.Mavericks: Breaking the Mould of British Architecture is at the Royal Academy, London from 26 January to 20 April