Rules of Summer appeared in the autumn of 2013, but the story of my relationship with this remarkable book doesn’t start until the following year. Manchester’s Central Library had just re-opened after a £50 million refurbishment and one sunny morning that spring I rode the tram to St Peter’s Square with my wife and three-year-old daughter. There’s room enough to borrow six books on a kid’s library card and I was scheming; the little girl was getting five, I figured, and I was having one. I’d always loved Edward Gorey and when I saw Rules of Summer by Shaun Tan that morning, (the lack of article is important by the way – these are only one of many possible lists of weird childhood regulations) I was immediately mesmerised. I bought my own copy, and as I busied myself writing my second novel, Lifers, through that spring and summer, Tan’s book became a sort of bible for everything I was trying to achieve.  Image from Rules of Summer Photograph: Shaun TanLet me try and describe it. Rules of Summer is a collection of 26 oil paintings. Almost all feature two brothers (one a couple of years older than the other) and a raven. The pictures illustrate the surreal dreamlike events of one particular childhood summer and are sequenced according to their titles, each of which is expressed as a rule. Twelve of the 14 rules work like warnings, “Never drop your jar,” “Never leave a red sock on the clothesline”, or “Never leave the back door open overnight” for example. Two – “Always bring bolt cutters”, “Always know the way home” – feel more like exhortations.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If there’s a narrative at all, it centres on the collapse in the relationship between these two boys, played out against a landscape that defies categorisation – sometimes urban, industrial, sometimes reminiscent of a Middle Eastern warzone – always threatening. These threats lurk in the form of giant animals. There’s a terrifying rabbit, a room of falcons, a humanoid cat reminiscent of Miyazaki’s Totoro, and a struggle for control, a sibling rivalry. The light leeches from the pages as the antagonism grows and following a betrayal in which the older brother seems to sell the younger to the ravens in exchange for a crown, a flock of dark birds begin to threaten; one raven becomes seven, seven become 28 and in the next painting, 85. Then, in a redemptive final section, the boys escape together, climb a ladder and march victoriously across a luminescent tabletop of giant fruit, before going home to watch TV and share a bowl of popcorn. The final page states simply, “That’s it.” Outside the window, a single raven retreats defeated. But next summer those shadow-birds are coming back and one summer, you suspect, they’ll win.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Why does Rules of Summer cast such a strong spell? Partly, it’s personal. Where the younger kid is dressed in orange, skinny legs poking out from a pair of baggy shorts, the older boy is in trousers and an adult’s work shirt with the sleeves rolled up. He has a watch and a flag. An early painting shows him leaning into the ear of the younger kid whispering something, setting out his rules, I suspect – regulations the younger boy can’t fathom or follow (“Never break the rules,” the back cover states, “Especially if you don’t understand them.”) I’m an older brother and I see my earnest self in that older boy, though thankfully I never made any attempt to sell my younger brothers to malign forces. Story in pictures: Eric by Shaun Tan Mostly though, Rules of Summer is my inspiration because it captures the thing I love most about writing for young readers. Simply put: for children the world is a vividly frightening and magical place. Psychologists point to a pre-logical stage of thinking sometimes referred to as “magical consciousness”, a phase of neurological development where there’s only a fragile sense of the gap between animate and inanimate, benign and malignant, cause and effect. Fuelled by a sense of confusion and vulnerability that Tan captures in each of his paintings, children imagine connections between events, objects, people; assumed correlations that to adult eyes can’t possibly exist. Tan’s siblings have conjured up a world of magical consciousness that is terrifying, dangerous and thrilling. But as they grow up it will fade and vanish; the ravens (birds associated with intelligence, wisdom, thought, meaning) will take it from them and once grown, these kids will not be able to find their way back.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lifers is the story of 15-year-old Preston Faulkner. When his close friend Alice Wilde goes missing, he walks the streets of Manchester each night searching for her. The secret world he discovers, unknown to all those who sleep, is at once magical, eerie and disturbing. There are urban explorers, insomniac kids, a covert government project, a shoestring crew of maverick scientists and a couple of sinister devices known as Kepler Valves. Not to mention a prison called Axle 6 from which our poor protagonists have to escape.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Never step on a snail. Photograph: Shaun TanIf I had to choose the image from Rules of Summer to which Lifers is most closely correlated, it would be the one called “Never step on a snail.” The younger brother raises a leg to examine the underside of his shoe, the older kid stands appalled, head in hands. A couple of hundred yards distant, a vengeful tornado is swooping towards them, ready to mete out justice. Lifers too is a story about the massive consequences of seemingly trivial mistakes, and about a nocturnal world in which there are still pseudo-magical connections between events. It’s my attempt to explore the childhood dreamworld that exists before reason and logic rob the world of at least some of its wonder. Luckily, we have books like Rules of Summer – books that remind us of the terror and wonder of what we have lost, and perhaps urge us to go looking for it again. Fletcher Moss's top 10 self-contained worlds in fiction MA Griffin works as a teacher and education consultant in Manchester, having previously worked as a deputy head, shelf-stacker and van driver in France and Spain. His first novel, The Poison Boy, was written under the name Fletcher Moss and won the 2012 Times/Chicken House Children’s Fiction Competition. Buy Lifers at the Guardian bookshop.