He has dazzled audiences with his vision of America’s founding fathers brought back to life by a racially diverse cast in the idiom of hip-hop.Lin-Manuel Miranda, the award-winning creator of Hamilton, has a storied and surprising family history of his own, according to a leading genealogist.The composer’s great-great-great-great-great grandparents were an interracial couple who appear to have been genuinely in love despite slavery and hostile laws, claims Megan Smolenyak, who spent about a month tracing his family tree.Smolenyak, whose other subjects have included Barack and Michelle Obama, Joe Biden and Prince, is a devotee of the Hamilton soundtrack. “Every once in a while, out of plain respect and admiration, I decide to research someone,” she said.Digging into Miranda’s past, she was particularly struck by the story of his ancestors David Towns and his partner Sophie, a former slave from Virginia, and the mixed race children they had together.Hamilton: the Broadway musical sensation that's changing lives “Once I came across David and Sophie I just became obsessed with them and tried to find out more,” said Smolenyak, consultant on the American version of the TV series Who Do You Think You Are? “Here’s a white fellow and a formerly enslaved woman and they spend their entire lives trying to outrun slavery. Every time they thought they were safe, the laws would change and they’d have to move again.”She added: “All the indications are that it was a genuine match. They stayed together until her death. You can’t help, when you read this story, but to be rooting for them.”President Thomas Jefferson, who features heavily in Hamilton, is believed to have fathered children with Sally Hemings, a slave at Monticello whom he never freed.According to Smolenyak’s research, Towns was born in the late 18th century in Virginia, grew up in North Carolina and lost both parents at a young age. He married in 1811 but his wife also died young. Towns became a private in the Virginia Militia toward the end of the War of 1812 against Britain.Sophie, meanwhile, was an African American woman from Virginia and her surname is uncertain. The couple moved to Louisiana together around 1815 and their first known child was born there around that time.“Virginia never would have tolerated their relationship, but with Louisiana, there was a whisper of a chance,” Smolenyak writes in a blogpost. “Slaves were allowed to buy their freedom and that of others. They could also marry, and mixed race couples and children were both more common and more likely to be free.”The Towns family spent about a decade in Louisiana, at least some of it in Ouachita parish, she added. In 1826 they moved to the Nacogdoches in the new country of Mexico, which had decided to eliminate slavery and was also encouraging immigration.Smolenyak continues: “Not long after arrival, David took advantage of living under Mexican law to free his wife and their six children born to date, confessing that, ‘It is painful to him that at a given time he claimed some brother, or other family member, as his own property.’“I fully realise how naïve it must have seemed to many when I claimed at the outset of this article that this was an interracial love story, but I genuinely believe that this couple was one of the rare exceptions. It’s a harsh reality that most multiracial offspring of this era were the result of rape, an entirely lopsided power dynamic, or both. But the Townses moved from Virginia to Louisiana for better circumstances, and then to Mexico where the entire family could finally be free.”The couple had at least nine children over more than two decades and remained together until her death in 1838. They were regarded as husband and wife by their neighbours and Towns repeatedly helped their children retain their freedom, even when American immigrants brought slavery with them, causing tensions.A census taken in 1835 revealed that the family included Juan (later John), who would become Lin-Manuel Miranda’s fourth great-grandfather. The race columns, a legacy of the days of Spanish dominion, were left blank as preferred by the Mexican government.But in 1836 the Republic of Texas was born, and with it came a fresh threat to the family. All free persons of colour were given until 1842 to leave Texas unless they were able to get Congress to exempt them. Otherwise they would be sold “at public sale, to the highest bidder”.Towns petitioned for an act of Congress on behalf of his family: “It is with extreme sorrow that they find by an act of the last Congress, they are allowed but a short time longer to remain within the limits of this Republick, unless your honourable bodies will, as is allowable by said act, relieve your petitioners from its operation, and by a measure of kindness and generosity permit them to remain in a land endeared to them by almost every tie that can bind the affections to any country.”Smolenyak adds: “It is somewhat heartening that some white neighbours were appalled that long-time residents were being forced to choose between exile or slavery, and a number stepped up to add their names. In fact, the signatories on David’s paperwork read like a Who’s Who of early Texas history.”Ultimately, the Ashworth Act (named after another affected family) was passed into law in December 1840, allowing free people of colour who had arrived in Texas before independence the right to remain. Towns’s offspring went on to live in various corners of Texas and Mexico.Smolenyak found that David and Sophie’s son, Juan/John, married Mary Ann Smith, an Alabama-born daughter of African Americans. Ensuing generations in this branch of his family tree mostly chose spouses who were Mexican or of Mexican (and possibly Mestizo) heritage. “So if you think about it, this portion of Lin-Manuel Miranda’s family was multiracial, multicultural and multinational. In short, they have a lot in common with his Puerto Rican forebears,” she said.The genealogist wrote about her findings on Twitter, catching the eye of Miranda himself. “I tweeted the thing and darned if he didn’t respond to me. It was beyond generous of him,” she said.Miranda tweeted: “My mom’s side of the family has a history as complicated as our country itself. Thanks, Megan.”Miranda’s mother is Dr Luz Towns-Miranda. Her husband, Luis Miranda, a Democratic party consultant, said in an email: “We certainly have read and heard pieces of this story at Towns family reunions but as you can read in the article there is plenty of conjecture.“When all is said and done, The Towns are from Texas and the many we met and continue to share love and stories, are proud Mexican Americans.”