Tyne & Wear Archives & Museums (TWAM) manages nine museums, galleries and heritage sites across the north-east. Last year, more than 1.4m visits were made to our venues and we worked with more than 1,200 volunteers. Volunteering at TWAM has gone from strength to strength in recent years. From the history-lovers to the railway enthusiasts; from undergraduate students to retired engineers – in so much of the work we do, volunteers are integral.Recognising that volunteering is a two-way process has been vital to the success of our programme. Both volunteer and supervising staff member contribute to each other’s development – and it’s about supporting that. We ask volunteers about their interests and what skills or knowledge they’d like to develop. Similarly, our staff write detailed role descriptions, because if the aims and needs of a potential volunteer are met, they will find the right person for the role. Recognising the contribution of volunteers is incredibly important At Stephenson Railway Museum in North Tyneside, for example, a group of dedicated volunteers – mostly retired rail workers – can put their skills to good use and share their know-how with the public, while also having the opportunity to meet up regularly with people who share their interests.The traditional stereotypical view of a museum volunteer being an older, retired lady in a tweed jacket has long since been quashed (although we do have a considerable number of retired volunteers on our register!). Our cohort varies greatly in age, as well as being a balanced mix of men and women.In 2014/15, 24% of TWAM volunteers were aged under 25 and the opportunities for young people are expanding all the time – as is their desire to volunteer. The L-INK (Laing Ink) group at the Laing Art Gallery is a good example. It comprises of young people who work with artists and gallery staff to help design activities, organise events and make and exhibit their own work.At the opposite end of the age spectrum, a group of older students from the Gateshead branch of the University of the Third Age approached staff at the Shipley Art Gallery with a project proposal. They wanted to learn more about the paintings in the Shipley’s stores and, following a series of sessions in which they conducted their own research, were able to translate what they had learned into a series of behind-the-scenes tours for visitors. A respected, mutual relationship like this is a perfect example of how both museum staff and volunteers can learn from and help each other.The roles undertaken by our volunteers vary as much as the people and the number of different roles has expanded greatly over the past few years. Training is therefore vital; no two roles are the same. Whether it’s working with collections in a store room, or being part of our events support team, we make sure volunteers feel confident that they have all the information needed to do a good job.Recognising the contribution of volunteers is also important. We do this by hosting the annual North East Regional Volunteer Awards. Accredited museums from the region are invited to nominate volunteers with whom they work, highlighting their contribution in areas such as collections care, learning programmes and visitor experience. Volunteers are also invited to nominate members of staff who they think has made a special effort to make them feel appreciated. Again, it all comes back to the importance of that mutually beneficial relationship.The museum sector is facing many challenges and has gone through many changes in a relatively short space of time. During that time, the way we all work has adapted, as financial pressures have made the sector look long and hard at future planning and available resources. Our volunteer team has noticed that volunteer roles and recruitment are now considered at planning stages, which helps to combat the fear we sometimes have that we don’t always have enough time to devote to supervising a volunteer. The relationships we have with our communities are more important than ever.A strong volunteering programme helps strengthen those links. It makes our museums and galleries truly embedded in the everyday lives of those who access them.Rachel Baron is project co-ordinator for lifelong learning and volunteers at Tyne & Wear Archives & MuseumsJoin our community of arts, culture and creative professionals by signing up free to the Guardian Culture Pros Network.