Earlier this month, a piece of history was made. For the first time in its 11-year run, Come Dine With Me featured a competitor who, cracking under the strain, chucked his guests out of his home after finding he’d lost the competition. It’s a glorious achievement for Peter from Milton Keynes, who will also be forever remembered for being part of the finest piece of daytime television ever broadcast, a show that condenses competitive entitlement and aspirational anxiety into a 30-minute comedy of manners which delights all senses (at 3 o’clock in the afternoon, anyway). But despite Peter’s heroic action – striking back for all the other losers who grin and bear it as a victor chucks a salver full of £20 notes into the faces of people who’d cooked them dinner for a week and quite frankly got sod all thanks for it, actually – he is still a loser. Had he held it together, he might have been in with a chance of appearing on Come Dine With Me: Champion Of Champions (Monday, 5pm, Channel 4).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In a radical departure from the usual format, this new series (CDWMCoC to its friends) brings beloved narrator Dave Lamb out of the voiceover booth – I’ll be honest, I wasn’t expecting him in a cravat – and into what is supposedly his kitchen in a large country house. There, he hosts three winners from previous series in a programme that can only be described as a complex combination of cooking competition and retrospective. Be assured, there is a clear distinction.In the first heat, the competitors are erotic novelist Jude (remember her?), Anil from north London (surely you haven’t forgotten Anil), and a thoroughly nice sales and marketing manager from Bristol called Ronnie whose face, among the thousands of others just like her, I know you can instantly call to mind. Dave is joined for the judging process by restaurateur and Saturday Kitchen regular Glynn Purnell, as well as an assortment of historic runners-up.In the heat of the competition, things don’t look good for Ronnie. In the original show, points are awarded less for what you cook and more on whether the Zinfandel is flowing, if your cutlery has recently seen the business end of a scrubby, and whether any of your guests started bitter rows between courses. This leaves the winning spot open to people – and I cast no aspersions on Ronnie’s culinary finesse here – whose main talents include “being inoffensive” and “doesn’t possess a jacuzzi or the belief you should get in it, in a bathing suit that hasn’t seen the light of day since 1993, on television”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In CDWMCoC though, the food is actually important. Courses are done away with in favour of challenges, which for Ronnie means making Jude’s Coca Xira, AKA octopus pie, without a recipe and against the clock. Keen viewers won’t miss the smiley face pressed indelicately into the pie’s crust, a flourish I’m sure is Ronnie’s homage to the early days of the show and to a dish called Leftovers Pie. Back then you could innocently enter a television cooking programme, dash whatever shit you had in the back of the fridge into a Pyrex and spruce it up with a bit of freeform pastry. To pull that stunt today would mark your card as someone barely capable of looking after themselves and exceptionally undeserving of a thousand quid in your back pocket.As much as this new format may have changed some things, other CDWM delights remain constant. It’s amazing how much you can tell about a person when they have to do a big shop for critical eaters, get their nails done, prepare a three-course meal and have a quick go round the skirting boards with the hoover, all the while trying to look relaxed and convivial. These conditions truly show what a person is made of. I judge them harshly: on the pomposity of their menus, on their sofas, on their parochial mohawks, and how eagerly they walk into middle-aged flirtation (always a danger with suburban dinner parties). In these circumstances, Jude is flourishing. “Ronnie’’ll have problems with the cock-ooh-jeera,” she says with a certain glint in her eye. “May the best one win.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 