I was in my first year of university, studying medicine at Cambridge. Like everyone else at the time, I was a royalist – the war years made people very patriotic. Queen Elizabeth was 27 and we all thought she was very pretty. There was a lot of excitement around her coronation. So I decided to go along with three other medical students, Ivor, Warwick and Trevor.Warwick drove us down to London in his soft-top MG after dinner the night before. The car was a bone-rattler; it wouldn’t be allowed on the road today. We passed the journey in high spirits, swapping naughty stories and ribald jokes. We hadn’t planned the trip very well. Hotels were too expensive, so we parked the car somewhere behind Waterloo station and walked to Green Park. It was already full of people, who were chatting and preparing to stay there overnight. Between us we had two mackintosh coats, which we huddled under near the roots of a tree. We met a young woman who hadn’t managed to meet up with anyone she knew, and invited her to join us. It was cold and drizzly and the five of us slept fitfully.By 6am, crowds were already gathering for the morning procession. We reached the front of the park gates, but still didn’t have a very good view. “We could climb up on to that pillar,” said Trevor. Three of us scrambled to the top, using the gates as footholds, while the fourth, who was asthmatic, stayed on the ground. Almost straight away, the police started shouting at us to come down. We refused. “If you don’t, we’ll send the fire brigade,” one of them shouted. But we knew it was an empty threat, as we were surrounded by hundreds of people, and the royals were due there in 10 minutes. “If you’re so worried, why don’t you come and keep an eye on us?” I said. “Good idea,” replied one young officer, and before we knew it, he was up there with us.We watched the whole procession: first came minor royals in their cars, then the prime minister, Winston Churchill, followed by a few foreign royals, including the Queen of Tonga. In this picture is Queen Alexandra’s state coach, which was carrying Mary, the Princess Royal. Then the royal coach came along, carrying Elizabeth and Philip. He nudged her and pointed up to us and the policeman in surprise. But she was waving the other way and didn’t turn around.After the Queen’s carriage had gone, people started to leave, so we clambered down. Later on, it started to rain quite heavily, so we had a wash in Victoria station, took a nap in one of the little news cinemas that used to be in mainline stations, then went to the pub. We stayed in town for the fireworks, and drove home through the night.South Uist in the 1950s: ‘We had a croft and 10 acres – there were always jobs to do’ I lost touch with the other three for a while, and I’m now the only one still alive. But I remember just after we graduated, one of them spotted a postcard of the coronation in WHSmith, with us standing on the pillar. I found it again decades later on eBay.Over the years, I’ve become less of a royalist. Life became busier – I became an anaesthetist and had three children – and the monarchy didn’t seem so important. Royal correspondents now bore me to death. But I do still greatly admire the Queen herself. I’m on her side. Are you in a notable photograph? Email thatsme@theguardian.com