Nature programmes, by their very existence, remind us of our place in the world. They are majestic and awe-inspiring. They show us that planet Earth is cruel and fragile and that, while unthinkable hardship is everywhere, solace can always be found in the simple beauty of a raindrop splashing on a soft leaf. Admittedly, this may not be something you realised if you happened to watch recent shows such as Cats v Dogs: Which is Best?, or World’s Sneakiest Animals, or Dogs Make You Laugh Out Loud.Because, Christ, those titles. There was a time, not so long ago, where nature shows came with lofty, audience-respecting titles such as The World About Us and Life on Earth. Now, they are named after whatever BuzzFeed headline the assistant producer saw being shared on Facebook three minutes before they had to deliver the final pitch to the commissioning editor.Addicted to Sheep is another one. It’s on BBC Four on Monday night, and it’s actually a beautiful, meditative documentary about sheep farmers in Durham. It’s made with such care, in fact, that you’re likely to spend the next few days wanting to do nothing but move to Durham and become a sheep farmer. Yet it is called Addicted to Sheep. It sounds like a bad YouTube Robert Palmer parody video. It sounds like one of those rubbishy TLC documentaries like I Can’t Stop Eating My Hair or I Married a Toilet. It’s a wonderful little programme, but its title seems to want to actively repel audiences. Even Cats v Dogs: Which is Best? has its merits as a programme – but those merits are obliterated by the fact that the whole thing sounds as if it was named by two drunk toddlers in a pub as a bet. You have to assume that, at this point, David Attenborough is thrilled to have most of his career behind him, because it reduces the likelihood of him ever falling prey to this sub-viral dumbing down and making a show called This Seal Was Just Chillaxing on an Iceberg: What the Killer Whale Does Next Will Blow Your Mind, or Here’s How This Antelope Just Perfectly Shut Down a Douchebag Lion Yasssss Queen.To reiterate (with the exception of Dogs Make You Laugh Out Loud, which is about as fun as sitting next to a masturbating stranger on a bus), these are good shows. I watched them expecting to dislike them, and came away enlightened and entertained and worried that I was the only person watching them because simply saying their names out loud is likely to shave a third off your IQ. It’s a weird trend, and I hope we see the back of it soon.Have you ever been put off watching a show by a misleadingly stupid title? Leave your comments below.