America: where British sitcoms go to die Last month I made a mistake in a review of Going Forward, the sitcom starring and co-written by Jo Brand – and I’m still not totally convinced it was a mistake. I wrote: “The days when sitcom meant a door opening, someone walking in and delivering a one-line, then pausing for the canned laughter, are nearly over, thankfully.”Actually, I meant one-liner, not one-line – that really was a mistake. But the issue was my use of the phrase “canned laughter”. Canned laughter implies fake laughter, which hasn’t been used for decades, and I meant studio laughter. I should’ve known – I do know – better. Massive apologies, to everyone.I certainly heard about it. Mainly because of Graham Linehan – who co-wrote Father Ted, certainly one of the greatest sitcoms ever, and probably my own favourite. “Have you sat in audience for Ted, IT Crowd, Count Arthur, ANY show, in fact? Perhaps politely contact @samwollaston and show him you exist,” he tweeted to his 637,000 followers.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laughs all round ... Friends. Photograph: NBC/NBC via Getty ImagesYou can hardly expect TV writers and TV critics always to be best friends, but my point remains: television comedy does not need to come served with laughter – studio laughter, audience laughter, whatever you want to call it – in 2016. Not just doesn’t need it, is much better without it. Give us, the viewers, some respect. We’ve grown in sophistication over the years, to the point that we can even be trusted to make up our own minds about whether something is funny. It’s not about telling the viewer when to laugh, the laughter advocate will say; it’s about creating an atmosphere in the studio for the recording. Fine – if you’re in the studio. I’m not though, I’m in my living room; I’m judging it from here, where – yes – I want to decide for myself, and am more likely to laugh without being nudged hard in the ribs. Something else you hear is that it’s about getting better performances. To which I give you David Brent, Malcolm Tucker, Selina Meyer – no laughter, no problem with performance. And if you do really have a cast who can only perform to an audience who’ve been given a couple of drinks and strict instructions to guffaw, then give it to them, but then take it away again before it gets to me. Lose the fluffer in the edit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, one of the current crop of sitcoms canning the canned laughter. Photograph: Eric Liebowitz/Netflix/Netflix“But a sitcom is awkward without laughter” – that’s something you get. Well, it is, if you strip the laughter from something that had it, so that you get a line, an expectant look, and then nothing. But if it was never there in the first place, and was never meant to be there, then it won’t be missed. Plus awkward isn’t always such a bad thing – ask Julia Davis.It’s no coincidence that the best, smartest, funniest TV comedies of the past few years – without thinking too much about it: The Office, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Green Wing, 30 Rock, The Thick of It, Pulling, Nighty Night, Him’n’Her, Modern Family, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt – come without laughter. And some of the lamest persist (you can add your own; I’m not quite ready for another cyber-hate tsunami). What was right once – for Friends, Frasier, Father Ted – isn’t necessarily right now; anything that does have it now feels dated. And is it always absolutely honest – did that line really bring the house down? It may not be canned laughter, but it sounds like it. Time to can it.