Ask any conscientious organist or other performer of the music of JS Bach for the most significant musicologist they can name, and they are highly likely to come up with Peter Williams. It was Williams who made the academic study of the organ a serious subject, and his writing on Bach – exhaustively about the organ works, but about many other Bachian topics besides – is among the most readable and stimulating available.Unlike scholars in the Bach field who have often succumbed to a bland attitude of continuous adulation towards the master, Williams, who has died aged 78, never shirked from showing where Bach fell short of his own astonishing standards, observing, for instance, that certain of his pieces show “teeth-gritting dogma” and that there is something alienating in the thoroughness of The Well-Tempered Clavier’s progress through all the major and minor keys twice over. It was Williams who first opened up the possibility that the famous Toccata and Fugue in D minor was not by Bach at all, and was perhaps originally written for unaccompanied violin.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the 4,267 pipes of the new Bach organ atSt Thomas Church in Leipzig being taken out for cleaning. The composer was the church’s cantor, and is buried there. Photograph: Jan Woitas/EPAWilliams always stood apart from the main trends in musicology, shunning the search for simple meanings or messages in music, rejecting the formalist analytical methods of Heinrich Schenker and others, and the “new musicology” that took over so much American scholarship from the 1980s onwards. This latter movement, concerned so much with “Continental” theory, cultural context, politics, gender and identity both within and without the canon of western classical music, was entirely anathema to Williams’s unique, but typically British, approach to musical scholarship.This is not to say that Williams’s work lacked critical fibre: his approach was surely informed by the “practical criticism” that he learned when he changed from music to English for the second part of his undergraduate degree at St John’s College, Cambridge. There he fell under the spell of a like-minded critical maverick, FR Leavis, and, once he returned to music for his PhD, on the organ and its music in Georgian England, he worked with the great iconoclastic outsider of the music faculty, Thurston Dart. As a performer on the organ, and particularly the harpsichord, Williams went to the Netherlands to study with Gustav Leonhardt, one of the most significant leaders of the historical performance movement and, once again, utterly individual.Williams’s work took him first to the University of Edinburgh (1962), and there began a career of extraordinary productivity. His initial survey of organs in Britain was soon complemented by one of the first major studies of the European organ, greatly informed by firsthand research in such forbidding territories as communist East Germany. This work culminated in The Organ Music of JS Bach (1980-84), a three-volume survey of remarkable thoroughness and insight that is unlikely to be surpassed in its combination of source, style and performance criticism.While at Edinburgh, Williams headed the Russell Collection of keyboard instruments, the leading one of its kind in the UK. This, together with the commissioning of a new Jürgen Ahrend organ built on historical principles, gave Williams almost unrivalled insight into the structure, history and performance practice of early keyboard instruments. It was also in Edinburgh, in 1966, that he founded the series Biblioteca Organologica, now running to 80 volumes of music for the instrument, and three years later The Organ Yearbook, the world’s leading journal in its field, which he edited until his death. In 1982 Williams was made the first professor of performance practice in the UK, a pointer towards the tremendous growth in historical performance during the 1970s and 80s, and to the key role that he was playing in it.When he arrived at Duke University, North Carolina, in 1985, he founded its new Center for Performance Practice Studies, and also served as head of music and university organist. It gave him a lot of research resources together with funded positions for excellent research students from across the world.There Williams produced The Organ in Western Culture, 750-1250 (1993), on the instrument’s origins in Christian Europe, and The Chromatic Fourth (1997), on the filling in of that interval with six steps of a semitone up or – as with the bass line of the lament closing Purcell’s Dido and Aeneas – down. This took his researches well beyond baroque music, yet it capitalised on his obsession with studying the permutational and developmental potential of small motives, which came directly out of his study of Bach – and something that he himself claimed to have practised during the sermons he endured as a choirboy in Wolverhampton.Peter was born there to Annie (nee Preece) and Ernest Williams, who worked for a lockmaking firm. He took his son to sing with him in the church choir, and Peter’s interest in music was also encouraged by his elder sister, Joan. At Wolverhampton grammar school, his music teacher, Frank Rust, was a great inspiration, as was Peter le Huray at Cambridge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Johann Sebastian Bach in a lithograph by FG Schlick after the portrait by EG Haussmann. Photograph: Bettmann/CorbisAt the end of his career, Williams went into a hard-working semi-retirement, returning to Britain when he brought his time at Duke to an end in 1997, by which point he was visiting professor at the University of Cardiff (1996-2002). His research culminated in two biographies – The Life of Bach (2004), expanded to become JS Bach: A Life in Music (2007) – based around both the implications and the tremendous gaps of the first Bach obituary, written largely by his son Carl Philipp Emmanuel.As always, Williams was more interested in opening new questions than providing clear-cut answers. Among several challenging perspectives in his late work was his research into the culture of capital punishment in Bach’s Leipzig and speculations as to the extent to which Bach and his pupils had to witness dreadful public executions: this was undoubtedly informed by Williams’s own experiences of living in North Carolina. A third study of the composer, Bach: A Musical Biography, was completed just before Williams fell ill with leukaemia in September 2015, and is due to be published in May.Williams was a man of trenchant – sometimes contrary – opinions. Yet he was unfailingly generous to all who shared his interests and were inspired to join in the discussions he engendered.He is survived by his second wife, Rosemary (nee Seymour), whom he married in 1982, their two sons, and a daughter and son from his first marriage.• Peter Fredric Williams, musicologist and keyboard player, born 14 May 1937; died 20 March 2016