Zig and Zag6pm, CBBCHaving had something of a career hiatus since reaching dizzy heights as 90s icons, the ragga-loving puppets are back with an animated series. The new Zig and Zag have a bouncy Ricky Wilson theme tune and their first adventure finds them eating breakfast-flavoured ice-cream on the hottest day ever. There are laughs and mayhem to make their colourful new incarnation appeal to little brothers and sisters, but nostalgic adults will crave the more irreverent years. Hannah VerdierIs Steel Worth Saving? Panorama7.30pm, BBC1With the ongoing efforts to salvage something from the British steel industry, this Panorama film may well prove the lasting record of David Cameron’s post-industrial legacy (which itself my bear comparison with the closure of the mines by Margaret Thatcher). This programme sees Today regular John Humphrys take stock of the situation in Port Talbot, south Wales, where thousands of jobs are at risk. Privatised in the 1980s, should the industry be saved from collapse by the intervention of the state? Hannah J DaviesWild Australia with Ray Mears8pm, ITVThe UK’s most affable bushcraft expert heads down under for this new six-part travelogue. The far-flung safari nominally starts in Queensland, but Mears immediately commandeers a boat so he can strike out for the Great Barrier Reef in search of humpback whales and his manta namesake. After bonding with the local sea life, he makes landfall on the remote seabird haven of Lady Elliot Island for a little more conservation, a little less action. Graeme VirtueHorizon: How to Find Love Online9pm, BBC2Single and hating it, Dr Xand van Tulleken here explores the world of online dating, with Dr Hannah Fry observing his progress and attempting to find him his perfect partner using the power of mathematics. Van Tulleken admits that, at 37, he is starting to resent the happiness of those around him, but can an algorithm really nail the peculiarities of sexual chemistry? The two doctors flirt up a storm until, finally, Van Tulleken goes out on some dates. A fascinating documentary. Julia RaesideMarcella9pm, ITVIt’s episode four of eight in the stylish police procedural from The Bridge creator Hans Rosenfeldt and, in true Nordic noir style, things are getting mightily convoluted. Presumably, the plots will untangle from here on in. In the meantime, while we wait to discover if Marcella has done something terrible (why do her superiors place so much trust in her … or do they?), scary Peter plays power games and there’s a new lead in the Grove Park investigation. Jonathan WrightGame of Thrones9pm, Sky AtlanticHaving finally outpaced creator George RR Martin’s thickset source material, there’s a sense that anything could happen this time around as HBO’s blood-soaked fantasy saga kicks off for a sixth season. We’re promised old favourites, new characters and fresh alliances, but the only sure thing in Westeros is that the road ahead is going to be treacherous. As per, expect a high-wire act of complex world-building and distressing realpolitik. Where’s Jon Snow when you need him? Graeme VirtueFlowers10pm, Channel 4Black comedy normally draws on a juxtaposition between disturbing subject matter and glib humour. Instead, Will Sharpe’s six-part series – set in the shambolic rural home of the Flowers family (played by Julian Barratt, Olivia Colman, Daniel Rigby and Sophia Di Martino) and screening every evening across the week – intermingles its knotty and desperately sad plot with the kind of comedy that litters our lives no matter what state they are in. The heartbreaking and hilarious result sets a new standard for situation comedies everywhere. Rachel AroestiFilm ChoiceNymphomaniac: Volume I (Lars von Trier, 2013) 11.25pm, Film4When the lonely and vulnerable Seligman (Stellan Skarsgård) invites the battered Joe (Charlotte Gainsbourg) into his home, it’s the start of a curiously beautiful friendship. Over cups of tea, and two whole films, she recounts her life of sexual obsession – an odyssey featuring a cast of thousands, including cameos by Shia Labeouf, Uma Thurman and Jamie Bell, while Von Trier steers his excoriating course through the erotic and the absurd. Volume II shows on Tuesday. Paul HowlettLive sportWorld Championship Snooker The last day of second-round matches before the quarter-finals begin tomorrow. 1pm, BBC2.Indian Premier League: Kings XI Punjab v Mumbai Indians Twenty-20 action from Punjab Cricket Association IS Bindra Stadium in Mohali. 3pm, Sky Sports 2Premier League Football: Tottenham v West Bromwich AlbionSpurs look to keep pace at the top. 7pm, Sky Sports 1