“There was a great deal of damage, destruction and violence,” Nick Davies reflected while speaking to me last year, “which isn’t terribly easy to stage without hurting people. You’d need a thousand extras if you were going to reconstruct it, and vehicles in flames with smoke pouring out of them. But apart from the enormous number of people, the expense, the damage and the injury … it should be quite easy for you to do.”That’s me in the picture: Rose Brash, 20, is led away by police at the Battle of the Beanfield, June 1985 Davies was talking about the Battle of the Beanfield – a contentious but widely forgotten clash between around 600 New Age travellers and 1,300 police officers in a field near Stonehenge, which he was one of the few journalists to witness in the summer of 1985. “Battle” is a misnomer. This was a coordinated assault on unarmed civilians, ostensibly to enforce an injunction protecting the monument from the annual Stonehenge Free festival, but more strategically aimed at “decommissioning” the convoy itself – a collective of countercultural activists who had long posed a headache to Thatcher’s government. Reconstructing the showdown – during which travellers were truncheoned, mobile homes burned, animals killed and children forcibly removed from their parents – would be far from easy. Impossible, certainly, for a group of students on a £200 budget. But in 2015, marking the 30-year anniversary, that’s what seven of us from Warwick University set out to do. Casting myself and five friends as police officers and travellers, the film-maker Dorothy Allen-Pickard and I directed the attempted re-enactment for our multimedia show The Beanfield, which is now on tour and comes to Battersea Arts Centre from 5 April as part of the festival A Nation’s Theatre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Beanfield, being performed at the New Diorama theatre. Photograph: Richard DavenportDorothy and I were strongly inspired by Jeremy Deller’s The Battle of Orgreave – a large-scale recreation of the 1984 standoff between striking miners and police. But re-enactment holds an added significance here since English Heritage, which was involved in the injunction and continues to manage Stonehenge, routinely stages battles and other forms of “live interpretation” at historical sites. So I emailed to ask if they’d work with us. The response – a polite template promising to keep me informed “if any opportunities become available for this event” – was a telling sign of the continued tensions around access to the site, and the politics of which events we choose to remember.  Our support for the travellers is implicit in the choice to take the subject on at all Left to our own material constraints, we quickly realised that this was going to be a show about the attempt, not the spectacle – about trying our hardest and hoping the eventual let-down might reveal something about the limits of performance as a means of accessing the past. Filming everything, we made riot shields out of bin lids, ironed police badges on to sweatshirts and mixed up fake blood. We watched and rewatched grainy news footage, and rehearsed rudimentary stage combat. Alongside Davies, we interviewed Carol, a former traveller, and Ruwan, a police officer, before setting off for Wiltshire – unsure of where we were going thanks to the field’s bisection by new roads, and wary of the landowners who’d already warned us away.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Druids at Stonehenge in 1980. Photograph: Jane BownLocal hostilities were just one of the things that made the show an ethical as well as practical challenge. “There’s not one truth about what happened that day,” medieval re-enactor Kate Arnold advised us, “but lots of people’s different accounts – so you’re going to have to take a side.” Our support for the travellers is implicit in the choice to take the subject on at all, and part of the impetus was our own experiences with the police on a campus protest – a recording of which we play during the show. But while we condemned the violence sanctioned by the state, it would have been remiss to overlook the psychology of those who enacted it. What about the young copper who flashbacked to the Falklands amid the screams and smoke, coming to on the roof of a van and finding himself blindly bludgeoning police as well as travellers? It was a story he recounted years later to Carol in a chance roadside encounter, breaking down in tears.The Beanfield at Edinburgh festival review – invigorating, complex look at bloody Stonehenge battle After years of fraught negotiation with neo-pagan campaigners, English Heritage now grants police-managed access to Stonehenge for the night of the summer solstice – a far cry from the month-long encampment of the Free festival – and interwoven between The Beanfield’s documentary strand is a fictional narrative set at the 2015 event. Attending in 2014, I’d been struck by its attempt to capture a countercultural spirit that had long been extinguished – and which had itself been a kind of improvised iteration of the ancient, unknowable rituals that may have once taken place within the stones. The modern-day solstice felt like decontextualized hedonism; a piss up in a park, marshalled by high vis-jacketed security guards. So for a show about the past, we’ve ended up keeping a considerable focus on the present.The Beanfield is at Battersea Arts Centre, until 21 April. Box office: 020-7223 2223.