More than 10,000 people have called on the fifth largest pension fund in the world to divest from oil, coal and gas. Members of the Dutch pension fund ABP handed over a petition to the fund’s managers on Tuesday asking them to remove fossil fuel company holdings from its $360bn (£250bn) portfolio.The campaign is part of a fast-growing movement, launched by the campaign group 350.org, that is putting pressure on institutions around the world to remove their investments from fossil fuels.Around 60% of those who signed the petition to ABP currently hold their pension with the fund. Vatan Hüzeir, co-ordinator of the ABP Fossil Free campaign which organised the petition, said: “We are very inspired by what Scandinavian pension funds are doing, such as AP2, AP4 GPFG and KLP. They all have decided to take climate change and the stranded assets scenario seriously and followed up their concerns with concrete action. It’s now time for ABP to pick up the ball.” José Meijer, vice-chair of ABP, said: “These kind of initiatives are good, they keep us sharp. We are going to take a critical look at the influence our investments have on climate change and better communicate what we do.” KLP, Norway’s largest private pension fund, divested from coal in 2014, while Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global (GPFG), the world’s largest sovereign wealth fund, recently divested from 50 coal companies. In September 2014, the Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4) announced they have joined forces with a coalition of investors and the United Nations Environment Programme to decarbonise the carbon footprint of $100bn of institutional investments worldwide.Campaign sign-upOn Monday, the Guardian launched a campaign asking the two largest charitable foundations in the world – the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Wellcome Trust – to move their investments out of fossil fuel companies. More than 88,000 people have signed the petition calling for the foundations to divest.Introducing the campaign, editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger wrote: “This [campaign] will almost certainly be won in time: the physics is unarguable. But we are launching our campaign today in the firm belief that it will force the issue now into the boardrooms and inboxes of people who have billions of dollars at their disposal.”Vatan Hüzeir said: “The Guardian’s campaign has already inspired the media here to dedicate more of their work to climate change. We’re all mere grains of sand, but together we can call a halt to climate change and introduce alternatives.” 