Cairngorms: A Year In The Wild7pm, BBC2We might only be little, but still, there's world-class wilderness in the British Isles, none more breathtaking, perhaps, than the Scottish Cairngorms. These are hostile peaks, clad with ice and snow in the winter, the weather wildly unpredictable. While dangerous, and sometimes deadly, they are also arrestingly beautiful, scattered with forests of Scots Pine. This look at a year in the life of the rugged National Park gets under the skin of the nature there, augmented with some fabulously sharp photography as the winter thaws and uncovers the heather moorlands and the rich, varied wildlife. Quite awesome. Ben ArnoldCandy Queens7.30pm, Discovery Real TimeJackie Sorkin makes Kim Kardashian look culturally indispensable. She is the self-claimed Candy Queen, building sugary monstrosities for Hollywood's rich and tasteless. In this episode she bosses minions to create a throne for a local narcissist and a sickly State Fair for a children's charity event. The last potential redeeming feature drifts away as it becomes clear that her constructions are shoddy to say the least, with the cliffhanger moment coming courtesy of a malfunctioning candy ferris wheel. Clare ConsidineThe Food We Eat: The Hunger Shame8pm, ITV1In this three-part series, Julie Etchingham explores modern Britain's relationship with food, beginning with a look at the effects of the current rise in food prices. Etchingham heads to a food bank where food is provided to people who can no longer afford to buy their own, and meets families who, though employed, are struggling to put food on the table. A much-needed look at a concerning effect of the economic crisis. CCThe Great British Story: A People's History9pm, BBC2Michael Wood's survey of the eventful past 2,000 years undergone by the people of these islands concludes with a most frenetic period of history – the 20th and 21st centuries. Wood explains how the old order was swept away by two world wars, the crumbling of empire and the swift – and all things considered, mostly surprisingly unfussy – rebuilding of Britain as a post-industrial, multicultural nation. He ends with a spot of persuasive crystal-ball contemplation. Andrew MuellerUndercover Syria9pm, PBSRamita Navai's film of life with Syria's rebels first appeared, in shorter form, as an instalment of Channel 4's Unreported World. It was shot last September, but given that Assad's regime has gone to such lengths to discourage reporting of the uprising, this remains one of the most detailed portraits we have of the revolt. Navai and director Wael Dabbous entered the country posing as tourists, before spending a fraught fortnight with the resistance. What they found was the determined beginnings of the full-scale rebellion now in progress: the film's recent Emmy nomination is the least it deserves. AMThe Joy Of Disco9.20pm, BBC4"It felt to us like Nazi book-burning" said Chic guitarist Nile Rodgers, after a radio station's promotional stunt in which a pile of disco records were blown up in a Chicago stadium in 1979. It's a pretty apposite analogy. The music its detractors came to regard as processed cheese began as authentically outsider music – a soundtrack to gay liberation and female empowerment. This documentary looks at its social importance, its pioneers, and its influence on club culture. Followed by Disco At The BBC, including performances from Labelle, Gladys Knight and The Village People. Ali Catterall