If I say, “Honey”, you say … well, what exactly? If the answer was “G”, then you or your enthralled children probably watch X Factor. If it was “on toast”, then you are missing out on one of the most surreal and mildly disturbing cultural phenomena of the year.For the uninitiated, Honey G is a middle-aged white woman from Harrow turned terrible rap act, who each week murders a hip-hop classic to the hysterical delight of the X Factor audience; the more toneless the voice, the more unconvincing the street slang, the more they whoop.“Please, please just end this,” said Simon Cowell when she first auditioned for the show. But in ratings terms, she’s as golden as her tinfoil tracksuit – and so Honey’s hung on in there while far better singers have been ruthlessly ejected. She’s the joke who became real, but the uneasy question is, at whose expense? For reality telly, like showbusiness more generally, does have a cruel habit of attracting contestants who are more fragile than they look.Honey G’s X Factor act isn’t funny. It’s modern-day blackface | Lola Okolosie To some she’s a modern-day minstrel show act, shamelessly appropriating elements of black culture that patently don’t belong to her. “So wrong on so many levels, I can’t even talk about it,” said Lily Allen this week, adding that despite not being black herself she finds the whole thing “offensive”. The rapper Professor Green, who isn’t black either, has meanwhile accused her of “taking the mickey out of rap” – while Honey hasn’t exactly helped herself by saying such criticism makes her feel discriminated against for being white.What makes this a grimly ironic parable for our times is that Honey G was the last-minute replacement for an ethnic minority act, only scraping through the early stages of the show because another contestant with an astonishing voice, Philippines-born Ivy Grace Paredes, couldn’t get a visa in time for the episodes filmed in Los Angeles.There is, admittedly, something about the phrase “cultural appropriation” that can make even card-carrying liberals grit their teeth, thanks to its overzealous application to everything from canoeing (recently held up as a symbol of “theft and genocide” in Canada) to yoga and Mexican-themed fancy-dress parties.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You don’t have to be Freud to wonder if a stage persona as invincible as Honey G might have its uses for someone who feels fundamentally vulnerable.’ Photograph: Burmiston/Syco/ThamesBut the unease over white artists plundering black music references has deep roots, and right back to Elvis one thing remains constant: the unforgivable thing isn’t just to steal from a culture, but to make a hash of it, while squeezing out those who could actually have done it justice. The problem with Honey G isn’t that she’s white and borrows from black urban music genres, but that she does it so badly. She’s making a mockery not just of the music but the whole idea of a “talent” show and the contestants who lose to her, and the fascinating question is whether she knows that. There are many reasons someone might adopt an unconvincing alter ego, and not all of them are funny Is Honey in on some scam cooked up by the producers to get the show talked about, or scamming them as part of some sort of dazzlingly postmodern statement on what the music industry has become? Or is poor Honey G the only person who doesn’t yet grasp that Cowell can’t possibly let her win, that he’s really after a lucrative long-term recording artist, and she’s basically a dancing bear whose string is being cynically jerked by the judges to make good telly?Perhaps because she looks and sounds so much like a French and Saunders skit, the initial assumption was that Honey G was a knowing parody, maybe even the work of a professional comedian. But the longer it goes on, the less knowing she looks.Honey G was swiftly unmasked as Anna Georgette Gilford, whose LinkedIn account describes her as an IT recruitment specialist and former competitive tennis player. Any self-respecting scammer could fake a social media profile, of course, but if this one is fraudulent it’s a work of genius; every last slightly nerdy detail rings true, from the fact that she captained the second netball team at school (and still puts that on her CV) to her knowledge of Microsoft Dynamics and her boast of having been to “a number of CBI conferences hosted by Richard Lambert”.If you’ve been to university, you definitely knew an Anna. You might even have known a public school type who belatedly discovered club culture, bought a mixing desk and started dropping their “h”s.But you probably don’t know a Honey G, the middle-class “gel” seemingly transformed into Saturday night freak show, and it’s trying to puzzle all this out that makes her so compulsively watchable. Even kids intuitively understand there’s something not quite right about Honey G, but still beg to be allowed to stay up and watch – while she’s got me hooked on a show I thought I’d long outgrown, wondering what on earth is going on behind those mirrored shades. For there are many reasons someone might adopt an unconvincing alter ego, and not all of them are funny.Lily Allen blasts 'offensive' X Factor contestant Honey G Honey G is brash, defiant, sassily dismissing “all the haters”; she’s got the swaggering gestures and take-no-prisoners language of someone who takes no crap from anyone. Anna Gilford, on the other hand, turns out to be a survivor of sexual assault who says that in her final year at university she was carjacked and sexually molested by someone she thought was going to kill her.The attack ruined her confidence and put paid to early hopes of a DJing career, she has said, and she has struggled with post-traumatic stress disorder. You don’t have to be Freud to wonder if a stage persona as invincible as Honey G might have its uses for someone who feels fundamentally vulnerable. “I do find it a lot easier to express myself as Honey G,” she says of her alter ego.But when the music stops and she’s awaiting the judges’ verdict, there’s a hint of anxious Anna in her face. She may be guilty of plundering her wardrobe, her vocabulary and her lyrics from a culture that isn’t hers. But the characteristic raw bravado of rap and hip-hop originally grew out of a sense of powerlessness, and the latter may be the one thing she doesn’t have to fake.If it turns out that Honey G was actually the world’s most imaginative entry for the Turner prize, or else a ruthless businesswoman riding a lucrative wave as far as it could take her, then the joke’s on me and everyone else sucked into watching this year’s X Factor. And that’s fine, because we can take it. But if the joke is really on Anna Gilford, then be careful that laughter doesn’t catch in your throat.