Debut writers KJ Orr and Claire-Louise Bennett are competing with the two-time Man Booker prize winner Hilary Mantel for this year’s BBC national short story award.The five writers shortlisted for the £15,000 prize were chosen from 478 entries, with the first round in the selection process judged anonymously. Mantel, who was shortlisted for the award last year with her controversial story The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher, was chosen this year for her story In a Right State. Inspired by Alan Bennett’s account of a visit to A&E in the London Review of Books, it portrays one of the people Bennett described as “habitués” during one night in hospital.Orr, who published her first collection of short stories in February, was picked for Disappearances, which opens as a retired plastic surgeon is wondering whether he can create a new identity for himself, and Claire-Louise Bennett for Morning Noon and Night, about the life of a failed academic. Bennett published her first collection of stories, Pond, last year.The remaining two stories on the all-female shortlist for the prize are by the award-winning writers Lavinia Greenlaw and Tahmima Anam. Three women working in a Bangladeshi clothing factory feature in Anam’s story, Garments, while Greenlaw’s The Darkest Place in England is set in a village where 15-year-old Jamie encounters a stranger. The winner is due to be unveiled on 4 October.The prize’s organisers said the five contenders were united by the “key themes” of “human connection and the quest for experience”.Judge and BBC Radio books editor Di Speirs said that last year, submissions for the prize had been marked by being “very much about Britain – it was a pre-Brexit list. But this year, the work was much more universal: a very human list … rooted in the human experience.” Speirs added that the line-up being all-female was “completely non-deliberate. Jenni Murray [the Woman’s Hour presenter who chairs this year’s judging panel] said, ‘Oh God, people are going to think it was me’. But it wasn’t, as we really don’t think about the makeup of the shortlist.”The stories, she said, range “across the world but all investigate human connections: the need for them, the perils when they are lacking and the joy that can be found in recognising just who you are. The five stories this year are all very different. Together, they show once again how strong, vivid and irrepressible short-form fiction can be.”She added that when the prize was launched in 2006, the short story was seen “as a bit of a poor relation everywhere”, but that this has changed. “When the award started, everyone thought it was beleaguered. Now it’s in rude health.”Greenlaw agreed. “I write very few short stories – there are three or four which I’ve finished and another 10 in the drawer,” she said. “But I think the short story can reap the benefits from what feels like a breaking down of generic barriers. I find myself quite naturally writing between genres, and letting things find their own shape, both in fiction and nonfiction. My writing is going to get stranger and stranger, but I don’t think it’s just me – we’re in an interesting time where people are letting their writing find its own shape.”Speirs and Murray are joined on the judging panel by the poet and author Kei Miller, the Booker winner Pat Barker and the Southbank Centre’s Ted Hodgkinson. Winners of the prize in the past include Sarah Hall, Julian Gough, Kate Clanchy and James Lasdun.