Daniel Barenboim brings his West-Eastern Divan Orchestra to the Southbank Centre in London for the first time in the 2017-18 season for another first: a tribute concert to his first wife, the late cellist Jacqueline du Pré. Du Pré was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 1973 and died in 1987 aged 42. The illness prevented her performing, but she dedicated her last years to working for the cause of MS research. Barenboim’s October 2017 concert will feature works by Tchaikovsky and Strauss, with the young Austrian-Persian cellist Kian Soltani as soloist, and will raise funds for the MS Society. “MS remains a cruel disease,” said Barenboim. “It can be an illness that destroys the very essence of what it means to be a human being. Every effort must be made to work towards finding a cure.”The ghosts of great performers and concerts past will be present in another high-profile event that forms part of the celebrations marking the reopening of the Queen Elizabeth Hall in April 2018. In a homage to Barenboim and Du Pré’s legendary performance of Schubert’s Trout Quintet in the then newly opened QEH in 1969, young pianist Benjamin Grosvenor will be joined by Soltani, Brett Dean, Hyeyoon Park and Leon Bosch to perform Schubert’s much-loved chamber work.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The Trout - watch a clip from a film documenting a legendary performance of Schubert’s chamber workLeonard Bernstein’s centenary year will be celebrated throughout the season, most notably by his former pupil Marin Alsop, who conducts a new staging of his Mass. “I saw Bernstein conduct when I was nine years old, and I turned to my father and said, ‘That’s what I want to do.’ That guy was having fun!” said Alsop. The staging will be directed by the Southbank Centre’s artistic director, Jude Kelly, and will feature the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain, children’s and community choirs and a cast of younger people from local communities. In a season full of colour and interest but short on visiting international orchestras, one major ensemble who will be in the Festival Hall is the Berlin Philharmonic. Sir Simon Rattle and his orchestra will give two concerts in May 2018 – his final UK performances as its artistic director. The programmes include Bruckner, Brahms and Lutosławski alongside new works by Hans Abrahamsen and Jörg Widmann. Contemporary music will also be at the forefront of a new festival curated by Pierre-Laurent Aimard – Ligeti in Wonderland – devoted to the music of his former teacher, the Hungarian maverick composer György Ligeti. It was also announced that the acclaimed pianist will begin a three-year artist-in-residence role at the centre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Southbank has planned a season of concerts to honour the centenary of Leonard Bernstein, seen here in 1966.Twenty-seven new commissions by composers including Tyondai Braxton, Charlotte Bray, Sir Harrison Birtwistle and Sally Beamish affirm the organisation’s commitment to investing in the future of classical music, said Gillian Moore, Southbank’s director of music.Kelly stressed the need for classical music to reach out to every level of society, and underlined the Centre’s mission of broadening accessibility. “We have to be thinking how to make a difference. Classical music from all cultures and parts of the world is profound and important in its ability to speak of inner and outer landscapes. The idea that we could ever hold it as the preserve of the few and not the many is laughable. Why would we ever want to do that?” she said launching the season.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Change needs to be systemic not symbolic’ … Jude Kelly, artistic director of the Southbank Centre. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianResponding to those who complain that the open-door policy that has been so successful that the arts centre’s artistic purpose gets lost amid the crush of visitors to the heart of London’s riverfront, who come to use the venue’s cafes, bars, toilets and wifi, she said: “You have to find ways of welcoming people in through means other than saying, ‘Buy a ticket, turn up, you’ll enjoy it!’ Bumping into art, and into classical music, that’s the most important thing. We need to provide other narratives that bring people in so that they then say, ‘Oh, I see this concert is a reflection on this idea. Maybe I will go to that.’ And we have all the evidence that this approach really does work.”Change needed to be systemic not symbolic, said Kelly, calling on every member of the classical music profession to commit to making everyone, regardless of gender or race, feel that classical music includes and represents them.