The ever-exasperating The Walking Dead has been teasing the appearance of its huge villain Negan all season, and he finally got the dastardly soliloquy we all knew was coming. He also most likely killed one of our favorite characters, but The Walking Dead being The Walking Dead, we have to wait until next season’s premiere six whole months away to figure out who died.My money is on Glenn, who Negan killed when he first met the Alexandrians in issue 100 of the comic book. The show’s creator Robert Kirkman even spoiled the event on an episode of Comedy Central’s @Midnight a year ago. However, Negan was very specific about the language he used before he embarked on his awful game of Eenie Meeny Miny Mo. “I don’t want to kill you people,” he says. “I want you people to work for me. You can’t do that if you’re dead, now can you … But you killed a whole lot of my people … For that you have to pay. So now I’m going to beat the holy hell out of one of you.” So maybe Glenn, or whoever he assaulted, is going to live. It’s not likely though, judging by the blood that oozed down the screen as Negan was working over our mystery victim with his barbed-wire-laced baseball bat Lucille.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   We all knew he was coming ... supervillain Negan and his baseball bat Lucille. Photograph: Gene Page/AMC‘This is your way of life now’That’s what Negan tells Rick and his crew as they’re all kneeling before him after an entire day of playing cat and mouse. Negan, with a big grin on his face, tells them they have to give him “half of [their] shit or I will kill you.” This, he says, is the new world order – and it seems like it would behoove everyone to accept.Negan masterfully orchestrated this grand finale, corralling Rick, Eugene, Sasha, Abraham, Aaron, Maggie and Carl by blocking off the roads with squadrons of his troops, a game of zombie “red rovers” and a giant log jam that the Saviors set on fire. “Welcome to where you’re going,” his minion told the group, knowing since the start of the adventure that they would eventually be caught right where the Saviors wanted them. Andrew Lincoln: ‘I’m employed to go on a zombie frenzy killing spree' The final showdown was especially creepy, with everyone carrying Maggie on a stretcher through the woods, which looked darker and mistier than usual (though strangely zombie free). They finally get to the clearing where they’re surrounded by the Saviors — including one-ball Dwight — and reintroduced to Michonne, Rosita, Glenn, and Daryl (bloodied by still alive) after they were taken captive. Everyone is whistling Negan’s telltale two-note tune and the symphony of whistles started to sound like shrieks from the underworld. It was a hard day for Rick, who woke up eating an apple in bed thinking he had everything figured out. But since he left in the RV to get Maggie some help for the zombie baby she’s carrying in her womb, he was outmanoeuvred, overpowered, and generally frustrated by the masterful maze Negan laid out for them. He was played in the way that he usually does the playing, and all of their tricks couldn’t save them this time.‘You’re a survivor. You always have been. We just didn’t know it’ There were some sweet moments on the way to the Alexandrians’ reckoning, mostly involving Abraham. When Eugene offers to sacrifice himself for the group and drive the RV to lure the Saviors away, Rick finally told Eugene what he always wanted to hear, that they were glad to have him among them. Abraham also let Eugene know that, even after all his years of lying about being a government scientist and being a coward who couldn’t kill a walker, he had finally come into his own.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Some sweet moments before the reckoning … Abraham (Michael Cudllitz). Photograph: Gene Page/AMCAbraham also had a great moment with Sasha where he asked her if she was willing to do what Maggie and Glenn did, meaning devote themselves to each other and start to make a life. Of course, this is a great case for why Abraham might be the one to get Lucille’s wrath. There is nothing this show loves more than offing a person when they finally have their life all figured out. ‘Are you comfortable leaving me in charge of Alexandria’s defense?’ Gabriel asks Rick the question above and Rick says yes, but the answer should be, “Hell no!” The one thing I really don’t understand about Rick’s plan is that, once again, he takes all the heavy hitters with him to bring Maggie to the Hilltop instead of leaving some strong people behind to hold down the fort. Who is in charge? Gabriel! The guy who only just picked up a gun? That’s like Samson trusting his mane to some girl at Supercuts who took one class in how to use clippers.Who else is left behind? Enid? She’s locked in a closet. What good can she do? The big lady who guards the pantry? She can ration out oatmeal, but can she fight off an army? Aaron’s boyfriend who we haven’t seen in an entire season? What’s he going to do? He’s invisible! And Rick left his daughter behind with this band of redshirts? Terrible move, Rick. ‘You are alive’That’s the sign Morgan sees when he discovers a horse while looking for Carol and he rides that horse into a small town where he tracks her down. Once again, she begs him to leave her alone. “If you don’t want to kill people or you can’t, you need to get away from them,” she tells Morgan about her inability to sacrifice morality for survival. She threatens to kill him if he doesn’t leave her alone. He does, knowing that if you stay alone you are definitely going to die. Carol should know this too; it’s zombie apocalypse 101. God of gore: the effects legend behind Reservoir Dogs and The Walking Dead spills his secrets And yet Carol is seemingly trying to get herself killed. When the last one of the Saviors that attacked her on the road finally confronts her, she smiles when she knows she’s going to die. Finally she is free, unburdened by the tough choices she has been forced to make in the post-apocalyptic world. However Morgan comes back and saves her by gunning that man down, breaking his vow not to kill again to save Carol, who has proven that she is worth saving, even if it means breaking his own moral code. He killed because he wants to believe that pacifists can still survive, as warped as that rationale may be. What is especially strange is the two guys who approach and offer them help. They’re dressed like they’re about to do battle on American Gladiators, kitted out in athletic pads and carrying spears. One of them used to ride the horse that Morgan found and they’re immediately willing to help these two strangers. If we’re putting two and two together, it seems like these might be some warriors from “the library.” When the Saviors are torturing the man who they spraypaint a red X on and later hang by a chain noose from the overpass, they mention that he and his people tried to fight the Saviors. He also mentions that no one from “the library” is still alive. When Carol and Morgan are camped out in that strange town, it appears that they are in a library that is fenced off, which would seem a good place for a group to hole up. Did Carol and Morgan just join a force that is going to take on Negan or has been for some time? Just like all the other questions we have, it’s going to take a long time to get them answered. 