For environmentalists, Denmark is the promised land – a utopia of high-tech renewables (42.1% of all energy currently comes from wind power) overseen by a benign state, a socially-conscious population and a scrupulously above-board network of green energy companies.Not so, according to a gripping new 10-part TV series from Denmark broadcaster DR, which brought us The Killing and Borgen.Premiering on BBC4’s coveted 9pm slot this Saturday (19 March), Follow the Money has been heavily trailed by the BBC, which clearly expects big things. “DR has an amazing track record in high quality, intelligent, ambitious, thought-provoking drama,” says Sue Deeks, head of programme acquisition at the BBC. “Follow the Money is an incredibly sophisticated and complex drama about corporate crime.”Angst, thrills, intrigue: why Euro drama is taking over our screens Written by Jeppe Gjervig Gram, who also co-wrote Borgen, Follow the Money is a brutal critique of the greed and get-rich-quick mentality that grew like spores in the banks, boardrooms and homes of Denmark in the years before the 2008 crash.The show was born out of a very political conviction, springing from news stories the writers read in the months after the financial crisis. “We read about company after company that was basically a criminal enterprise,” says Gjervig Gram. “I realised how little I knew about our financial system, and how deeply it had become part of our society.”Borgen emerged out of the feeling that politics was too important a subject to shy away from, he says. “And I felt we had to do the same here for the world of money. I wanted to tell this story because I feel we’re still holding our breath, waiting for the next bubble to burst and the next economic storm to hit.”The series opens with Alexander (Nikolaj Lie Kaas), the suave, suited CEO of Energreen, a rapidly expanding energy company, emerging from a Park Lane hotel. He jumps on a bike and cycles through London’s traffic for an interview with the BBC. “Of course I cycled here,” he exclaims to the broadcaster. “I’m from Copenhagen!”Cut to sunset in his hometown, and a dead man, ligatures deep in his neck, is dragged from the sea near one of Energreen’s wind farms. On the case is Mads (Thomas Bo Larsen), a morose police detective assigned to the investigation and who refuses to believe in accidents. Mads has difficulties at home, a wife with multiple sclerosis and two children who need more attention than he can possibly provide. But the victim’s father is scared stiff to speak out – and the deeper Mads digs, the more he uncovers a story of mass criminal neglect, shady lawyers and financial deceit. If I were a swindler, if I were committed to committing fraud, I would be in green energy “Energreen seem to be the good guys,” says Gjervig Gram. “But if I were a swindler, if I were committed to committing fraud, I would be in green energy. If you want to trick someone into giving you a lot of money, you have to give them something they really believe in – you have to promise them the future.”Scandinavian television is so popular in part because of the sustained quality of acting: think of the performances of Sofie Gråbøl, who played Sarah Lund in The Killing, Sidse Babett Knudsen, who was Birgitte Nyborg in Borgen, and Krister Henriksson, the titular detective Wallander.Expect more of the same from this show, which stars Dogme 95 alumni Lie Kaas, known for Susanne Bier’s Brothers, and, most notably, Bo Larsen, brilliant in the lead role of Thomas Vinterberg’s iconic family drama Festen. While Lie Kaas starred as Lund’s sidekick in the third series of The Killing, this is a rare foray for Bo Larsen into high-end TV. Yet he seems to have been made in clay for the part.“From the very beginning, we wanted Thomas,” says Gjervig Gram. “But he almost always plays characters from low social standings or irresponsible characters, so we didn’t know if people would believe him as a policeman. We wanted someone who has to take on too much responsibility. We wanted Bo Larsen 2.0. It was very important to me.”The veteran actor responded in kind. “I’ve wanted to play a police officer ever since I left acting school 25 years ago,” says Bo Larsen. “With my previous characters, I’ve become used to sitting in the back seat of a police car. It was great to finally be in the front.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Morose ... Thomas Bo Larsen in Follow the Money. Photograph: Christian Geisnæs/BBC/DRBo Larsen has been making successful feature films for over two decades, but admits to a certain amount of trepidation about taking this role. “When I signed the contract for two years, I was worried it would become boring in the long run,” he says. “But I was surprised how interesting it was to work with a character for such a longer while. You can stretch the character, go into so much detail.”When asked what motivated him, Bo Larsen’s answer is simple – it’s a cautionary tale. “The last crisis had such a profound impact on our economy, particularly on the real estate market here,” he says. “We have to be more careful. We all fear what another crisis would do to our society, and it seems possible.”This fear clearly guides the show. “After the financial crisis, there were a lot of guilty people in high finance. But the crisis in Denmark wasn’t just about Wall Street or even the bankers in Copenhagen,” says Gjervig Gram.“In Denmark, people were too willing to blame Wall Street and not look to themselves – but there was a lot of greed right through society. The value of real estate rose dramatically. People got rich just from owning a flat; they didn’t ask questions, they convinced themselves they deserved it. That is greed. That is what Follow the Money is about.”• Follow our series blog after you watch the Follow the Money premiere on BBC4 at 9pm on 19 March. The whole series will be released on DVD by Nordic Noir & Beyond on 25 April. 