A British fixation with the weather seems to link readily with a pessimistic view of our vulnerability to flooding. This has been underlined through an outstandingly wet winter, with often protracted floods. For those directly affected, in Somerset especially, this has been a harrowing experience, and the impact on transport, agriculture and commerce has been severe.Many believe that the cluster of major floods in the early years of the 21st century herald much worse as global temperatures continue to rise. Research by the Centre for Ecology & Hydrology and British Geological Survey supports a more nuanced view.Tidal flooding is expected to increase as thermal expansion of the oceans, supplemented by meltwater from glaciers and ice sheets, increases sea levels. The risk of flooding from groundwater may also increase if winter rainfall rises appreciably.However, the outlook in relation to fluvial (river) flooding is much less clear cut. This can be well illustrated by flow patterns in the Thames, for where the recent flooding has been most extensive. The Thames we have one of the longest continuous flow records in the world. Systematic flow measurement began at Teddington in 1883; there is also a wealth of documentary evidence relating to historical floods.Since the 1880s, temperatures in the Thames basin have risen substantially (by about 1.3C) and there is a clear tendency for the frequency of high flows to increase. However, there is no corresponding trend in those flows that result in the most extensive and damaging floods.Why is this? Snowmelt (sometimes over frozen ground) has contributed to a considerable proportion of the worst floods in the Thames basin. These include March 1947, when the most extensive flooding across England and Wales in the 20th century threatened lives and livelihoods. Prior to the 20th century, snowmelt-aggravated flood events were more common; extreme examples include 1809, when a number of bridges across the Thames were destroyed, and, on necessarily more sketchy evidence, 1593, when a rapid thaw resulted in Oxford's Christchurch Meadows being flooded to a depth of 13 feet. As winter temperatures rise, such circumstances are likely to be encountered with increasing rarity.While in some mountain regions, (the Alps or the Rockies, for example) rising temperatures have produced more rapid melt rates from snow and glaciers, adding to the flood risk, generally, the lack of trend in flood magnitudes for the Thames reflects the pattern across much of the world.For the Thames there is a second mitigating factor in relation to flood risk; one that reflects the river's character and history. The river has been used for milling, fishing and navigation for many hundreds of years: the abundance of weirs hindering navigation and exacerbating flooding.In the modern era, the disastrous 1947 flood stimulated a river engineering programme (including channel realignments, dredging and improvements in weir design) to increase the capacity of the Thames, particularly through its middle and lower reaches. When completed, the river could accommodate more than 30% more flow within its banks. Thus, while peak flows exhibit little trend, peak river levels – the primary cause of flooding – decreased appreciably through the 20th century.In the tidal reaches, construction of the Thames Barrier in 1981 rendered very unlikely any repetition of the last major flooding of central London, in winter 1927-28, another snowmelt-aggravated flood which saw 14 fatalities and 4,000 people made homeless.For England and Wales as a whole, it is estimated that a repeat of the 1947 flow patterns, without the flood alleviation measures now in place, would inundate more than 200,000 properties. It is a tribute to the effectiveness of our flood defences that, after the wettest nine weeks on record for many parts of southern Britain, the number affected by flooding remains below 10,000 – although this total is likely to increase following the recent rainfall.The UK's continuing vulnerability to extreme weather patterns has been heavily underlined this winter. Our rivers have provided a timely reminder that flood plains are part of their natural province and, at irregular intervals, will be inundated.Population growth and development on floodplains has increased the numbers exposed to flood risk but improvements in medium-term weather forecasting, more appropriate land management strategies and the extension of novel flood defence techniques (the use of demountable flood barriers, for example) together with better flood-proofing of housing imply that, with appropriate funding, the more apocalyptic future flood risk scenarios will not be realised.Terry Marsh is leader of the National Hydrological Monitoring Programme