Jamie Johnson5pm, CBBCTo coincide with Euro 2016, CBBC presents this three-part drama based on Dan Freedman’s best-selling books, which continues tomorrow and Wednesday. Eleven-year-old Jamie arrives at his new school with a reputation for football prowess, but settling in proves tricky when he clashes with school bully Dillon. Things are fractious at home, too, as he searches for his absent dad. The subplot of a female friend being barred from joining the boys’ team feels a bit tired, though. Ben ArnoldThe Secret Life of Kittens8pm, Channel 5First of a two-part documentary promising an intimate glimpse of the first 12 months of feline life, which is likely to measure its success principally by the number of times it can make its viewers emit noises of simpering appreciation. Expect some insight into the formative experiences that shape a cat’s personality, although anybody who has one won’t need telling that they are passive-aggressive connivers from birth. Still, though: kittens. Andrew MuellerUpstart Crow10pm, BBC2In the last in the series of Ben Elton’s bard-based sitcom, the age of exploration promises great riches for London residents brave enough to fling savings at the futures market. Sadly for Shakey, though, family finances are floundering, so if a modest investment of his own is to blossom, the offer of a loan from rival Robert Greene will need to be taken. However, Greene’s interest rates turn out to be even more injurious than anything the likes of Wonga could impose. Mark Gibbings-JonesFirst Dates Abroad10pm, E4An identical restaurant and format pops up in Australia, with an opening episode that makes us cringe hard while offering paltry feelgood payoffs. Various nightmare date stereotypes are embodied by people whom it might have been kinder not to feature on television, from a scarily controlling woman and a guy so nervous he literally can’t hold his drink to another who talks entirely in whispered pick-up lines. Tune in – if you like the taste of your own knuckles. Jack SealeThe Great British Sewing Bee9pm, BBC2As the contest passes the halfway point, how will the stitching stars cope with this week’s challenges? First, they must tackle a complicated pattern for a shift dress from the 1960s in which a “white, orange and minty” number competes against a sea of primary colours. To complete the theme, they transform a PVC mac while a Lulu-based soundtrack wails in the background. There’s much giggling and a lot of hard work going on. Hannah VerdierHeathrow: Britain’s Busiest Airport9pm, ITVThe last behind-the-scenes tour of the series is the most entertaining. There’s a clear sense of people doing strange jobs well under pressure, from the guy who has to prep a plane for the next flight in 45 minutes flat to the bloke who douses jumbos with antifreeze at 1am. Plus, obs-doc gold from a sewage technician who has prepared some comedy material for the cameras, and a plane-spotting couple who could power a whole episode. JSGotham: Wrath of the Villains10pm, Channel 5The pre-Batman crime panto has gone super-heavy on bad guys in its second season, adding cracked shrink Hugo Strange, zero-chill dude Mr Freeze, tyro pyro Firefly and more to an already stuffed cast. No wonder teen Bruce Wayne struggles to make much of an impression. This finale wraps up the torrid tale of Strange’s unholy experiments beneath Arkham Asylum while teeing up the already confirmed season three. Graeme VirtueFILMUncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives, (Apichatpong Weerasethakul, 2010) Monday, 1.35am, Film4This enigmatic film from Thai director Weerasethakul is a tranquil reflection on life and death. Uncle Boonmee, played beautifully by non-professional Thanapat Saisaymar, is terminally ill and, on returning to his origins in a remote forest, is visited by ghosts of his past: his dead wife Huay and son Boonsong in the guise of a monkey spirit. There’s an air of shaggy dog story here but, despite the absurdities, a sombre sense of the mystic prevails. It’s one of a kind and completely beguiling. Paul HowlettBuffalo Bill and the Indians, (Robert Altman, 1976), 1.30pm, YesterdayAppropriately subtitled Sitting Bull’s History Lesson, Altman’s thoughtful drama explores the gap between the legend and reality of the American west. Paul Newman’s Buffalo Bill is called to account by political prisoner Sitting Bull (Frank Kaquitts) while his money-spinning wild west show panders to the lurid expectations back east, and is left sadder and wiser. Old western hero Burt Lancaster is pointedly cast as a printer of the myth. PHLIVE SPORTTest Cricket: England v Sri Lanka, 10.30am, Sky Sports 2 Last day of the final Test.Tennis: Queen’s, 1pm, BBC2 Day one of the grass-court tournament.Euro 2016 Football: Republic Of Ireland v Sweden, 4.30pm, BBC1 Ireland kick off their campaign. Belgium v Italy follows. Spain v Czech Republic is on ITV, 1.30pm. Basketball: Warriors v Cavaliers, 2am, BT Sport 1 Game five of the NBA finals series.