Books about love can make you blush, swoon and weep. But which romantic reads are bound to warm (or chill) your heart this Valentine’s month? It’s not all gush – with kidnap, secret letters and assassins added in for good measure, our young reviewers have been busy selecting the very best stories about love. So, without further ado, here are the five romance-inspired reads you ought to get your hands on this month.1. Attachments by Rainbow RowellIs it possible to fall in love with someone before first sight? This intriguing novel follows Lincoln, a young man whose job is to read flagged emails at a newspaper company. After reading messages between Beth and Jennifer, he begins to fall in love with one of them before they’ve even met.Rainbow Rowell: 'We need and love fantasy because it frees us from our own existence' “One of the things that makes Attachments so interesting is the structure and writing style,” opined site member some-infinities-katie. “The book is a combination of third-person writing about Lincoln, and direct transcriptions of Beth and Jennifer’s email exchanges. This gives equal insight into all three of the novel’s main characters.”Our reviewer also praised the plot and characterisation of the book. “The ending was superb – it’s wonderfully adorable. Attachments is a brilliant novel, with deep and interesting characters and a lovely plot.”2. Unspeakable by Abbie RushtonIf you’re looking something more fast-paced, Unspeakable may be the perfect read for you. Young Megan hasn’t spoken since her best friend Hana was murdered seven months ago. However, when she befriends a bubbly new girl called Jasmine at school, Megan starts to develop feelings which may threaten their friendship.“I read this entire book in two days; I just couldn’t put it down,” enthused teen reviewer Hanz2000, who especially liked the structure of the novel.  It’s one of those novels when you promise to put it away and sleep after reading just one more chapter but it ends on a cliffhanger so you have to continue. … It was a real page-turner, constantly putting different theories in your head and making you feel more and more for the characters.Hanz2000 even said this might be their new favourite book. “It contains the right amount of mystery and fear, as well as containing the wonderful topics of friendship, family and sexuality that YA books always do.”Stephanie Perkins' top 10 most romantic books 3. Kiss of Deception by Mary E PearsonMoving on to a tale that combines elements of romance and adventure, this story follows princess Lia, who runs away on the morning of her arranged marriage to a prince she has never met from another kingdom. She settles into life in a small village, before meeting two men: a prince and an assassin, who have been sent to find her by her father.Becca17 particularly enjoyed the split narrative of the story: The story was written from three different viewpoints, which makes it much more exciting. You learn things that the other characters do not yet know which causes you to feel apprehensive of whether they will find out. By the end of the book I was so enticed that I read the second book straight after because I needed to know what happened next.Becca17 also felt that Lia was a strong female protagonist. “She takes her life into her own hands, instead of letting others tell her how she should live it. That is what makes this story not only one about romance but also self-discovery. With many twists and turns this novel didn’t have any boring moments.”4. P.S. I Still Love You by Jenny HanA more traditional teen love story features in our next pick – a sequel for To All The Boys I Have Loved Before, which follows the first romance of 16-year-old Lara Jean. This story follows Lara’s relationship and friendship with Peter, which becomes strained when a boy from her past returns and stirs up old feelings.Site member bookoholic031 likened reading the novel to spending time with a good friend.  You know that feeling you get where you feel like you have lost a friend when you finish reading a book? That feeling is what proves that you’ve read a truly amazing book. This was what I felt after I finished reading PS I Still Love You. I don’t know if there is going to be a third book in this series but I hope there is.5. Geek Girl: All Wrapped Up by Holly SmaleContinuing the theme of teen romance, this story – part of the Geek Girl series – follows Harriet Manners, a geeky 15-year-old, who has just had her first kiss. Then when Harriet is asked out on her first ever date, she has no idea how to behave.Holly Smale: I think people are starting to embrace what being 'a geek' actually means “As the book is set in the winter, if you read it under a blanket with the fire on and drinking a hot chocolate, it makes it even more special,” commented site member cupcakekate. Our reviewer also loved the realistic aspect of the story. “I loved the thought that everything Holly does, I could go out and do myself. Overall I think the book was a great read. You should read All Wrapped Up if you are interested in an educational but humorous relatable story.Want to tell the world about your favourite book? Join the site and send us your review!