The memory of Sir Freddie Mercury, one of the most flamboyant and glamorous figures in the history of rock music, will be celebrated this year with a blue plaque on his home in the west London suburb of Feltham.He will join an eclectic group being honoured in the 150th year of the much loved scheme, which writes a history of London’s more remarkable residents on its walls. Memorials will also go up to the Hollywood star Ava Gardner, as famous for her lovers and marriages as for her films; the footballer Bobby Moore who led England to World Cup victory half a century ago; and the Irish Nobel laureate Samuel Beckett, whose life and work are far more associated with his adopted home in Paris than either Dublin or London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ava Gardner. Her plaque will describe her as ‘film star’ rather than actor. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/ShutterstockThe homes of cookery writer Elizabeth David – described by the biographer Rosemary Hill as “the woman who persuaded Britain that olive oil was good for more than curing ear aches” – the ballet dancer Margot Fonteyn, the cack-handed magician Tommy Cooper, and Laurie Cunningham, one of the first black footballers to play for England, will also get plaques.“What a dinner party these eight would make,” Hill, a member of English Heritage’s Blue Plaques committee, said.Mercury, whose soaring vocals made something extraordinary of Queen’s tracks, was born Farrokh Bulsara in Zanzibar in 1946, and died in 1991, shortly after issuing a statement confirming he had Aids. The plaque will go on the terraced house his family moved to in 1964. Feltham, a suburb in the shadow of the M3 motorway, best known for its young offender institution, has not forgotten its improbable immigrant: fans came from as far as Australia when Queen guitarist Brian May unveiled an elaborate star-shaped memorial to him in the local shopping centre. Within a few years souvenir hunters had virtually dismantled it, and it was replaced with a more modest star plaque on the high street.Barking and Dagenham will get its first official blue plaque, marking the house where Bobby Moore still lived when he first wore the England shirt in 1962 – although his old school, Ripple Primary, put up its own blue plaque three years ago. Moore first played for West Ham United in 1958, led them to victory in the FA cup in 1964 and the European Cup Winners’ Cup the following season, and finally, in a triumph yearningly recalled by England fans at every World Cup, took the ultimate trophy at Wembley stadium in July 1966.Ava Gardner’s blue plaque will describe the Hollywood legend as “film star” rather than actor. Hill, whose biography of the architect Augustus Pugin runs to 120,000 words, said encapsulating a life in around eight words was part of the skill of the blue plaques, and that Gardner’s needed to suggest her glamour. Born in 1922, she starred in more than 60 films, had a rollicking love life including affairs with John Huston, Earnest Hemingway and Howard Hughes, and married Mickey Rooney, Artie Shaw and Frank Sinatra.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laurie Cunningham whizzes past Graeme Souness and Phil Neal in 1981. Photograph: Colorsport/RexShe described her Knightsbridge flat, convenient for Harrods, as “my little London retreat” – it has five bedrooms and five bathrooms, and recently went back on the rental market for £500,000 a year – and it became her main retirement home until her death in 1992. Laurie Cunningham’s career at Leyton Orient has also been marked by an unofficial blue plaque, but his north London home will now get the official one. Born in 1956, son of a former jockey from Jamaica, he became one of the first black players on the England team, and the first English player to transfer to Real Madrid. He died in a car crash in Spain in 1989, aged just 33.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tommy Cooper, whose plaque will be displayed in Chiswick, west London. Photograph: FremantleMedia/RexTommy Cooper, famous for his fez, fumbled magic tricks, and gleeful catchphrase “Just like that!”, will get a plaque on his home in Chiswick, west London, where he lived with his wife and family for almost 30 years until his death in 1984 after suffering a heart attack during a live television show.Samuel Beckett’s plaque will go to Chelsea, where he lived for three years from 1933 while struggling to earn a living as a writer, and undergoing Jungian analysis at the Tavistock Clinic – all three experiences would find their way into his work and he was still living there when his first full-length work, More Pricks than Kicks, was published. The Chelsea streetscape is woven into his first novel, Murphy. The blue plaque scheme, much imitated across the world, was founded by the Royal Society of Arts in 1866 – with brown plaques – with the grand aim of increasing “the public estimation for places which have been the abodes of men who have made England what it is”. The first names considered were Benjamin Franklin, David Garrick and Admiral Lord Nelson.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Samuel Beckett’s plaque will be erected in Chelsea, where he lived for three years from 1933. Photograph: PAMore than 900 plaques have been installed as the scheme was taken over by the London County Council and finally English Heritage. A special anniversary weekend will be held over 7-8 May, and an app is being developed which will guide people to Mary Shelley, Ian Fleming or Mozart.English Heritage also announced a £1.25m conservation project for work on the original iron bridge – the 1779 Iron Bridge across the Severn in Shropshire, the first single span cast iron bridge in the world, now a world heritage site but suffering cracks including from an earthquake in the late 19th century.In its first year as an independent charity, English Heritage reported a record 5.7 million visitors to its sites including Stonehenge, and membership up by 15%. 