The final decision on a third Heathrow runway could be delayed even further than the middle of 2016, the transport secretary has suggested.Patrick McLoughlin admitted on Friday morning that the government’s verdict on airport expansion could be postponed beyond the new deadline of next summer, which was announced on Thursday to widespread anger from business groups. Heathrow runway delay not connected to London mayoral elections, McLoughlin claims - Politics live McLoughlin said the government was still considering proposals for the expansion of Gatwick, rather than restricting its thinking to building a third runway at Heathrow as recommended in July by the Airports Commission, led by Sir Howard John Davies.McLoughlin said: “I believe that in the summer of next year we will be in a position to have done the extra work … I hope that we will be able to make a firm recommendation to the cabinet subcommittee next summer.”Downing Street’s promised response to the Davies commission’s recommendation was watered down on Thursday to simply reaffirming the need for more airport capacity in south-east England. Heathrow expansion: no political will to build third runway, says IAG boss The prime minister’s spokeswoman said the government would make a decision “as quickly as possible”. She said: “This is a big decision for our country, but there is this issue around air quality, noise pollution and the environmental impact. And when you’re taking a decision of this magnitude, it is right and prudent to do the thorough work before you take those decisions.” The Commons environmental audit committee produced a parliamentary report on 1 December saying final approval should not be granted until the airport demonstrated it could meet key environmental conditions on climate change, air quality and noise. It warned that a failure to deal with environmental concerns could lay the scheme open to legal challenge.John Holland-Kaye, the chief executive of Heathrow airport, said he was glad to have the opportunity to “reassure the prime minister he can have the best of both worlds.He said: “Not only the UK’s best connected hub airport … but we can do it in an environmentally responsible way. We know it’s the right thing to do. If this is the process the prime minister needs to go through to make the right decision in the summer, then so be it; we will work with him and make it happen.”Heathrow third runway decision put off until at least summer 2016 Asked about the threat by the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, to lie down in front of the bulldozers to prevent a third runway from being built, Holland-Kaye said: “Well, we’ll hand dig around Boris.”Although the delay was widely expected, Cameron immediately faced fury from business groups and accusations from Labour that he had ducked a difficult decision on infrastructure to help the chances of Zac Goldsmith, the Tory London mayoral candidate, who is a fierce opponent of Heathrow expansion.The TUC joined business in warning that jobs would be lost and trade damaged by the latest postponement. Frances O’Grady, its general secretary, said: “While the government keeps delaying, the British people will lose out on new jobs, new apprenticeships and economic growth. And there is a big danger that the UK’s global position will slip while this crucial infrastructure for doing business with the world is delayed.”Heathrow decision delay will provoke fury but little surprise The British Chambers of Commerce described Thursday’s announcement as “gutless”, while the CBI group for big business said it was deeply disappointing.Goldsmith said: “We know that it is impossible to reconcile Heathrow expansion with the legal requirements on air pollution. I don’t think there is any way round it. The logical conclusion of the decision they have made is that Heathrow is off the radar.”His London mayoral rival, Labour MP, Sadiq Khan, said a runway was needed and it should be built at Gatwick now. Residents around Gatwick have been alarmed at being dragged back into the fray. Crispin Blunt MP, one of eight Conservatives in the vicinity of Gatwick who are vehemently opposed to a second runway, said it was “disgraceful vacillation by the government” and they “richly deserve the opprobrium to be poured all over this shocking non-decision”. He warned that Gatwick’s “flawed and costly proposal was left dead and buried by the Airports Commission. It is not the easier option. It would not survive the scrutiny of parliament and the courts.“Local opponents warned that there would be substantial environmental problems associated with Gatwick expansion too, including worsening air quality for 50,000 people and the requirement to build a new town the size of Crawley to house the surrounding growth. Brendon Sewill, chair of the Gatwick Area Conservation Campaign, said: “The government will need to examine the real cost of the road and rail infrastructure work required.” He said that an airport operating at full capacity would need a bigger M23 and M25 and new road links as costly as anything needed at Heathrow.