So farewell then, Dippy the Diplodocus. For more than a century the much-loved 26-metre long dinosaur skeleton has held centre stage at the Natural History Museum in London, captivating generations of children. But this is the last weekend of Dippy’s residency. On Wednesday the 292 plaster-cast bones that make up his splendid frame will be taken apart and packed up.After 112 years as the museum’s best-known prize exhibit, the country’s most famous diplodocus will embark on a farewell tour of the UK, following which there are no plans to put him on show. His replacement at the Natural History Museum will be the genuine skeleton of a young blue whale who died in 1891 on an Irish beach, around 152 million years after Dippy’s demise in the United States. As yet, the whale has no nickname – Bluey doesn’t really swing it.Dippy’s posthumous fame began in 1898 when railroad workers uncovered bones in the plains of fossil-rich Wyoming. The almost complete diplodocus was snapped up by Scots industrialist Andrew Carnegie for his Pittsburgh museum. King Edward VII saw a sketch of the beast on the wall at Carnegie’s Skibo Castle and promptly decided to build a replica. Creating the plaster cast cost Carnegie around £2,000 of his own money. The replica skeleton was shipped to the UK in 36 crates and went on display in London before the original had even been pieced together. Dippy was the first upright skeleton of a diplodocus ever to have gone on display.The Natural History Museum’s head of conservation, Lorraine Cornish, is in charge of Dippy’s delicate dismantling process: “The most important thing is that Dippy is off round the country,” she said, “where he will reach a huge number of people in these eight venues who are all so enthused and incredibly excited to have him. His first stop is in Dorset on the Jurassic coast, which is lovely and fitting. He is going to be such a great ambassador for the museum and for natural history and the natural world.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   How the blue whale skeleton will look at the Natural History Museum once Dippy has left. Photograph: Natural History Museum/PATaking Dippy apart will take around three weeks. “The plaster of paris is pretty fragile, it’s moulded round the armature at some points,” said Cornish. “It’s like a giant 3D puzzle or Meccano set, and it was never built to be dismantled.“The pelvis is particularly tricky. And the neck and tail is a bit like a necklace of pearls, but we do like a challenge.“We will miss Dippy, you do bond with these specimens, after all. And he is so iconic, it is about memories and people have such a strong affinity with him”.Part of the reasoning behind Dippy’s removal was a desire to highlight current conservation concerns.“It was a big decision” said Cornish, “looking at the whole strategy and priorities of a natural history museum and where we are going. We have so many stories to tell. The blue whale is original and we wanted a big specimen that would talk to the science. This is a species we hunted almost to extinction and then had the courage to attempt to bring back from the brink. It’s so very relevant. But we’re very happy that the whale will look very dramatic and bring a new story to visitors.”The blue whale has already been exhibited high up in another hall so may be familiar to some museum regulars. But her pose will be slightly altered now she is in the museum’s prime position.Dr Paul Barrett, as the leading paleontologist at the Natural History Museum, is also sorry to see Dippy go, but extols the authenticity of his successor. “There are a number of positives to Dippy going. He is a spectacular object and allowing people from outside London to see it is important. From my point of view there is a certain nostalgia, of course, but I’m not upset in scientific terms. He is always a replica, of research quality but a replica. In science, we’re always driving towards authenticity and real objects and that is what people want to see to connect with the natural world.”Replica or not, over the years there have been attempts to enhance Dippy’s authenticity. At one point, the arc of his long tail was lifted when science reviewed how the beast probably moved.Barrett emphasised that despite Dippy’s exit, dinosaurs remained hugely significant to modern scientific study. “One of the reasons dinosaurs are increasingly relevant is that they show that no matter how successful a species is, unexpected events can come along and completely wipe them out. They had no time to evolve or adapt. Enormously successful, living all over the world and a big rock from space knocks them out.“It’s a wake-up call to human arrogance. Some things you cannot predict and we are still vulnerable to being caught out.“We have a biodiversity crisis and things we cannot predict. So paleontology is a growing field, with more direct relevance now than ever. It’s not just about the evolution of life but also now about where we’re going.”Last week, a few visitors were paying their final respects. For nine-year-old Nathan Stretham, from Stroud, visiting Dippy has been a biannual event. “Since I was tiny I really, really loved dinosaurs. But diplodocus is my favourite. I think because I saw this one first. He’s the best thing.” Does he like whales though? Nathan’s reply is cautious. “Yes, but maybe I’ll like them more when I get too old for dinosaurs.”‘FOSSIL’ HISTORY■ Dippy arrived in London from America in 36 packing cases in 1905. His 292 bones took months to assemble and his unveiling that year at the Natural History Museum was an international coup.■ During the second world war he was taken apart and stored for safety.■ He was the first of 10 replicas - all funded by Andrew Carnegie and gifted to museums scattered across the globe.■ The diplodocus was first identified as a species of sauropod dinsoaur in 1878 and named by Yale professor Othniel Marsh from the Greek diplos meaning double and dokos meaning beam. It lived between 156 and 145 million years ago, weighed around 13 tonnes and was likely a herbivore.■ Dippy has had roles on television and in films including Paddington, One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing, and Night at the Museum 3. He has also been the star of innumerable tourist and family photographs.