Ryan Reynolds reckons he’s getting on a bit. He’s just played a superhero in his new film and spent six months in the gym training. “But on the first day I put my back out,” he grimaces. He was only attempting a few weighted squats. “Then next thing you know, I’m lying on the floor. It’s 6am, the gym’s empty and I haven’t even got my phone.”What did he do?He grins. “I crawled. I couldn’t move, so I literally crawled on all fours, two blocks home.” Ryan has a dark sense of humour and he’s not afraid to make fun of himself Now dressed in a navy baseball jacket, jeans and trainers, Starbucks coffee in hand, Reynolds looks like a superhero on his day off. Sprawled at one end of a sofa in a New York hotel, he’s displaying some serious muscle tone. At 38 he could pass for being a decade younger, but Reynolds says he doesn’t feel that way: “The last time I trained for a film like this was five years ago. It’s a big difference. Now, I mean… you start to wonder if you even still have abs under there.”He’s pointing to an imaginary layer of fat around his stomach. Then, laughing, he stops himself. “I can’t believe I’m talking about my abs: 95% of your readers will have fallen asleep by now…”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Movie marvel: Reynolds as Deadpool in the film of the comic book. Photograph: Allstar/20TH CENTURY FOXIf that’s the case, the “fans” won’t have. Doing some Google research before this interview, it didn’t escape me that there are a lot of pages out there dedicated to solving the mystery of how Ryan Reynolds achieves his six-pack, not to mention appreciation sites by female admirers. But to say these things are Reynolds’s only currency would be underestimating the star. There’s something very relatable about Reynolds. As his former co-star Mary-Louise Parker once said: “You can almost smell his decency.”Perhaps it explains why when it came to casting his latest project, Deadpool, Reynolds got the public vote. The film, based on a Marvel comic-book character of the same name, had been in development for a decade with Reynolds attached as the star, but the studio had stalled on making it (perhaps due to a lukewarm response when the character was debuted in X-Men Origins: Wolverine). Then 18 months ago “something crazy” happened. On a July morning Reynolds woke up to a social media storm: test footage he’d made since had been leaked and comic-book geeks were going wild for his incarnation of the film’s antihero. The next thing he knew, the studio had put a release date on its schedule. “It was weird,” says Reynolds. “In less than 24 hours the fans had green-lit a movie that, altogether, had been in development for more than a decade.”Apparently the outlook is good: at Comic Con last year, where the Deadpool trailer was first unveiled, the congregation rose to its feet. And more recently, select geeks who have been invited to cloak-and-dagger screenings of the full film have taken to Twitter to spread their glee. Deadpoolers are beside themselves. Today, outside the hotel, a small handful are waiting to catch a glimpse of Reynolds, maybe get his autograph. One has even handcrafted Reynolds a bracelet (a sort of hippy friendship band that he’s now wearing).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Will you?: with Sandra Bullock in the romcom The Proposal from 2009. Photograph: Allstar/Warner BrosThe most interesting thing about Deadpool, aside from it being the first R-rated comic-book movie, is the way it flips the image of the clean-cut superhero on its head. Deadpool is foul-mouthed, and for much of the film you don’t see his face – when Reynolds isn’t wearing prosthetics he sports a full-on morph suit. But the film also inverts other comic-book clichés: Deadpool knows he’s in a comic, and he knows he’s Ryan Reynolds, which makes for some amusing gags at the actor’s expense – at one point Reynolds takes a swipe at his last comic-book outing, lamenting the flashing green suit he had to wear in 2011’s big flop The Green Lantern. I think I was fake into kids before. I was pretty good at looking like a guy who liked kids According to Deadpool director Tim Miller, Reynolds wrote the gag himself. “The thing about Ryan,” Miller explains, “is he has this very dark sense of humour. I think The Green Lantern going so wrong was tough on him, but it’s in his nature to address that. He’s just not afraid to make fun of himself. In this film there are gags all over the place.”When he was a kid, Reynolds wanted to be a comedian. The youngest of four sons, he was raised in Vancouver by a cop father and sales assistant mother. At school he joined an improv comedy group and realised he had a talent. “I was quick,” he says. “I knew I wasn’t Robin Williams funny, but I was good at using things around me to diffuse a situation, making myself the butt of the joke.”At 13 he would become a child star. Casting directors came to town to hold auditions for a new teen soap, Fifteen, and alongside thousands of kids, Reynolds was asked to improvise. He aced it. “I almost knew right then,” he says. “It played to my strong point. They gave me a role.”As one of the show’s principal characters, he worked for the next four years, filming five days a week in Florida. The experience left a bad taste: “I learned a lot about preparation, not holding things up, but for some of the kids it was tough. When they got it wrong they would get belittled. You saw their self-esteem being rocked. I thought that was borderline abuse.”Deadpool trailerHe went back to school for a brief period. But at 17 he decided to move to LA, with the intention of joining the comedy troupe the Groundlings. “To my surprise I didn’t get in,” he laughs now. “So that backfired.” Instead he attended auditions. It was a funny time: “For starters I had a van with a missing door. But it was also 1997, when California has one of the worst El Niños and every day was this deluge of rain. I’d have to drive to auditions with a set of clothes in a plastic bag, as everything in the van would get soaked.”Ryan Reynolds: from buff buffoon to Hollywood heavyweight That next year Reynolds got his Hollywood break in the sitcom Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place. Then in 2002 he was cast as the eternal frat boy in Van Wilder: Party Liaison. It became a cult classic and Reynolds the good-time guy (“My career at that point,” he has said, “could be summed up by a free shot in a bar”). For the next few years, mainstream comedies became his stock in trade, most of them huge box office hits. But Reynolds had more to prove. After a lightbulb moment on the 2009 indie The Nines – he says working with director and writer John August gave him the confidence to take a new direction – he switched his focus to more serious fare.After lauded turns in one-man film Buried and in The Voices, last year he won some of his best praise from critics for his role in the offbeat road movie Mississippi Grind. But while some have suggested that Reynolds is going for the full Matthew McConaughey effect, making the transition from box office champ to critics’ darling, he bats the idea down. “I’m not necessarily done with romantic comedies,” he shrugs. “I just think the really good ones are becoming harder to find.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Family man: with his wife Blake Lively. Photograph: Karwai Tang/FilmMagicWouldn’t he like an Oscar, though? In a trailer for Deadpool, Reynolds introduces himself as: “Five-time Academy Award viewer Ryan Reynolds”. Is that just self-deprecation? “No, of course everybody wants that stuff. But the thing with me is that I’ve always felt a bit uncomfortable with the idea of not working. Maybe at some stage it would be good to take a pause to think about what I really want.”In the past 18 months he has been taking more extended breaks. At the end of 2014 Reynolds had a baby – a daughter named James – with the actor Blake Lively. In the past he may not have opened up about his personal life, but something has changed. “I’m definitely different about all that stuff now,” he says. “If you’d asked me five years ago [when he divorced Scarlett Johansson] I would have been like: I would rather not. But now I have a much less cynical view.”This may come as a surprise. Last year a friend he’d known since childhood attempted to shop pictures of his newborn daughter to the press, and that was tough, “like a death”. Then on the set of Deadpool Reynolds had an altercation with a paparazzo angling for shots of James. “It was pretty intense,” remembers director Tim Miller, who was there. “You know, Ryan doesn’t fuck around. What that guy tried to do, he wasn’t having it. I was just angry because he hurt his back. But where his family are concerned, he’s protective – that’s crossing a line.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I’m definitely different about all that stuff now…’: with ex-wife Scarlett Johansson. Photograph: Kevin Mazur/WireImageAccording to the actor Stanley Tucci, a friend and former neighbour in Westchester County, New York, Reynolds just wants normality: “They’re the loveliest people, Ryan and Blake. When we first met, we went over and I think we saw them practically every other day; for a week my kids were staying over at their house. They love cooking and their home life. They’re just two of the most generous people I’ve ever met.”Reynolds confesses to liking DIY: “I can hammer, build things – I love home improvement,” he grins. As for fatherhood: “Life is completely ruined, but it’s fun.” Given that he was engaged twice before he met Lively (first to the singer Alanis Morissette), I wonder if he always wanted to settle down. Did he always want kids? “I think I was fake into kids before. I was pretty good at looking like a guy who liked kids, but I realise now I despised them,” he deadpans. “Now when someone shows me a picture of their kid I can make a genuinely interested face.”It’s a classic Ryan Reynolds response. He doesn’t want to get too caught up in himself. And anyway, playing the joker has got him this far. “Hey, my objectives were very low when I started,” he says. “I just wanted to be a working actor, pretend and get paid sometimes.“And to be honest,” he adds, “I think my attitude is what’s prevented me from becoming a colossal asshole. You meet some young actors now who think that any less than superstardom is failure. And that’s wrong.” And then he laughs. “The ironic twist to that is that those are the exact people who become gigantic superstars!”Perhaps the real twist is that he doesn’t realise he’s pretty big himself.Deadpool is out on 10 February