A plan backed by the footballers Ryan Giggs and Gary Neville to build shops, offices, flats and a luxury hotel in Manchester city centre has propelled a 1950s synagogue and a 1930s police station on to a list of buildings at risk.The top 10 from the C20 Society, which campaigns for 20th-century architecture, also includes murals in Stockport and Hull, a housing estate in south London, student accommodation in Oxford and a church on the East Sussex coast.Gary Neville and Ryan Giggs: a striking partnership changing the face of Manchester Catherine Croft, the society’s director, said some of Britain’s most remarkable buildings were in danger of being lost as a result of development, dwindling budgets and short-termism which fuelled an “out with the old, in with the new” mentality.“We are witnessing the death of idealism and public spiritedness which underpinned so much of the best architecture of the 20th century,” Croft said. She said the society did not want buildings to survive “as decaying monuments” but to see them “brought back into use so they can make a positive impact on the environment. We do not need to demolish great architecture to allow room for innovation and economic growth.”In Manchester, the Reform synagogue and Bootle Street police station could be lost under plans by Giggs and Neville, in partnership with Make architects, to redevelop what have been described as the “last, largely disused streets in the heart of the city”.Two skyscrapers and a luxury hotel have been proposed along with a new synagogue. But the society argues that the loss of two outstanding examples of 20th-century architecture is unacceptable. The synagogue opened in 1953, funded by war reparations, and has “some of the earliest examples of figurative stained glass in a Jewish place of worship”, the society said. The police station is described as “a distinguished neo-classical building”. It opened in 1937.Other buildings on the list include: • St Leonard’s church, in the Sussex seaside town of St Leonard’s-on-Sea, a 1950s rebuild of a 19th-century church hit by a German bomb in 1944. Built into the cliff-face, it is currently closed because of concerns about the impact of rock falls and subsidence.• Cumberbatch North & South student accommodation buildings at Trinity college, Oxford, which opened in 1966 and represent “sensitive three-dimensional urban infill”.• Dunelm House, a Durham University student union building and a classic example of love-it-or-loathe-it concrete brutalist architecture. The university says it would take £15m to repair and redesign the building to make it fit for purpose.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Reform synagogue in Manchester, which the C20 society said was one of the best examples of 20th-century architecture. Photograph: Alamy Stock Photo• Coventry’s Elephant sports centre, built in 1977 alongside the 1966 swimming baths which have a 50-metre swimming pool and a seating capacity of 1,174 . Both are at risk, the society says, because the city council wants to replace them with a new £37m leisure centre.• Former BHS store mosaic murals in Hull and Stockport. In Hull there is a 20-metre by 19.5-metre Three Ships mosaic, and in Stockport a mural that depicts the history of the town across six centuries.• Central Hill in south London, described by the society as one of the capital’s “most exceptional and progressive post-war housing estates”. Designed by the pioneering architect Rosemary Stjernstedt, it consists of more than 450 homes built between 1966 and 74.• 60 Hornton Street, a modernist house in Kensington, London, that featured in Joanna Hogg’s 2014 movie Exhibition.• Holborn library in London, built in 1960 and described as “a milestone in the history of the modern public library”.• High Cross House, in Dartington, Devon, built in 1932 as a home for William Curry, then headmaster of the progressive Dartington Hall school. It fell into neglect in the 1980s and was looked after by the National Trust before it was closed to the public because of a low visitor numbers.The society published its last list in 2015 and it featured two buildings that have since seen positive outcomes: St Peter’s seminary near Glasgow and the Western Morning News building in Plymouth. Less fortunate ones included a Sainsbury’s in Greenwich that was demolished to make way for an Ikea.The society said keeping a list helped to demonstrate how severe the threat was “to some of the very best examples of architecture of our period”.