Farm minister George Eustice has rejected calls for an inquiry into whether farmers were misled over the use of a dangerous chemical.At least 500 farmers across the UK were left with debilitating health problems after using organophosphate-based (OP) chemicals to protect their sheep against parasites, under the government’s compulsory dipping programme which ran up until 1992.In April the Guardian revealed the then-government was privately warning of the dangers of exposure to even low doses of the chemical and criticising the safety measures offered by manufacturers, yet publicly criticising farmers who refused to use the chemical.Speaking at a debate in parliament on Wednesday, Eustice said he would meet victims but that an inquiry would add nothing to the conclusions of the government’s independent advisers, the committee on toxicity (COT). It found no link between low-level exposure and chronic ill health.Eustice told MPs that officials had ‘nothing to hide’ and that the documents published by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) warning of the dangers of sheep dips were not based on scientific reports, unlike the later conclusions of COT.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Farming minister George Eustice, left, and NFU president Peter Kendall at the NFU annual conference in Birmingham in February 2014. Photograph: Christopher Furlong/Getty Images“The COT have looked at this exhaustively, looking at dozens and dozens of documents and could not find any link [to chronic ill health],” he said, admitting that he was sympathetic to those farmers suffering ill health and acknowledged that “some of those farmers do associate their illness with their use of OP sheep dips”. Despite playing down the risks posed by OPs to farmers, the government did issue guidance leaflets and compel manufacturers of OP chemicals to add hazard warning stickers to containers. Yet both of these steps were not undertaken until April 1993, almost two years after internal warnings by officials, according to a document released under a freedom of information request.“It is time for a full disclosure of all the documents published around this time by government and for an inquiry, independent of government departments or COT, to be set up to look into this afresh,” said Labour MP Jessica Morden, who organised the parliamentary debate. “We need to see who in government knew what when and why they might not have acted upon it.”Her calls have already been backed by Labour leadership candidate Andy Burnham, who called the original revelations a “major scandal”, as well as MPs from the Conservatives and Democratic Unionist Party.MPs could, in theory, also launch their own inquiry into the issue. Conservative MP Neil Parish, who has been unopposed in his nomination as chair of the influential environment, food and rural affairs select committee, told the Guardian that if ministers failed to properly investigate the issue he would during his upcoming term in office.While welcoming the support of MPs, campaigners have criticised the lack of concern shown by the UK’s main farming organisations to sheep dip sufferers. When questioned by the Guardian, the National Farmers’ Union (NFU) did not specifically address the issue of OP poisoning suffered by farmers or calls for an inquiry, but reiterated the answer given by government officials.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sheep are dipped in a tank containing chemical solution to kill lice and mites, in north Yorkshire, UK. Photograph: Wayne Hutchinson/Alamy“The NFU is guided by the scientific and regulatory advice given in relation to OP products and acknowledges the conclusions of the scientific review undertaken by the COT in relation to the toxicological risk to humans of low-level exposure,” said animal health adviser Catherine McLaughlin.Speaking to the Guardian, a former NFU board member, who suffered OP poisoning after dipping sheep in the early 1990s, said he had been shunned by the organisation after his illness. Gerald Benney, a beef and sheep farmer in Eustice’s constituency in west Cornwall, was an official dipper for the then ministry of agriculture, but had to sell his farm in 1991 as his health deteriorated.“All my nerves got destroyed and I lost my balance. We didn’t know what we were suffering from and the doctors were puzzled too. I don’t want to blame anyone. We’ve been told so many times that we’re making these things up that it leaves me crying. I just want those who suffered to be recognised and treated properly,” he said.