Deafinitely Theatre was the first company of deaf actors to perform a full-length Shakespeare play, at the Globe in London. In 2012, we were approached to do Love’s Labour’s Lost as part of the Globe to Globe festival, which aimed to celebrate Shakespeare’s plays and perform each of them in a different language. It’s a very difficult play, rarely performed and relatively unknown. There is no existing British sign language translation, and it was difficult to research around it.I had previously avoided Shakespeare. My education failed me. I considered Shakespeare to be something for academics: I knew the stories, but didn’t have access to the language. Later, as an actor, I played Lavinia in Titus Andronicus at the Bolton Octagon: she has her tongue cut out, so doesn’t say much!But when we were invited to do the play, I thought: “We can do it.” All of our actors are deaf and use BSL, and a lot of them initially said: “Shakespeare? Not for me.” Rehearsing was a painful, slow process. We began with a two-week translation stage: it’s not about simply doing it word for word. Kate Furby, our creative interpreter, worked with us on the concept and meaning. It was very collaborative. We went through scene by scene, working on meaning and interpretation, and when we were happy we’d film it as a record.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deafinitely Theatre’s production of Love’s Labour’s Lost, performed in British sign language. Photograph: Simon AnnandEven translating the title into BSL was difficult. I began with the signs for “love”, “work” and “loss” – but that doesn’t really make it clear. The play is about male friendship, about maturing and coming of age. The men realise they can’t rule love with an oath, and I love their will-they-won’t-they relationship with the Princess of France and her women. At the end, the women leave when the Princess’s father dies, so we found a signed equivalent to the title, about coming together and then moving apart.There aren’t many records of how signing worked in the 16th and 17th centuries, though it seems that people did much more finger-spelling. Signing is not just about the hands – my signing space is from my waist up to the top of my head. You use your lips, eyes, shoulders: it’s no surprise that Charlie Chaplin took a lot of his sense of expression from his work with deaf actors.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Donna Mullings as Maria in Deafinitely Theatre’s production of Love’s Labour’s Lost at the Globe, 2012. Photograph: Simon AnnandShakespeare’s language has its own rhythm and structure. So does BSL: we put its poetry, metaphor and comedy centre-stage. Some of the wordplay didn’t work in BSL, but when Rosaline and Boyet are talking about hunting as a metaphor for love, we did a lot of funny physical stuff with arrows and Cupid. It was all about making the signing much bigger and more theatrical. Adam Bassett, playing Don Armado, really embraced the flamboyance, and also the poetry in the piece. Deaf actors like eye contact, so I continually reminded everyone that there would be people at the sides. Small signs wouldn’t work at the Globe; and we had to think in 3D all the time.It had been pouring with rain in the lead-up to our performances, but then the sun came out. The audience reaction was incredible. There were a lot of deaf people who had never been to the Globe or seen Shakespeare before. I met an American couple who hadn’t realised it would be signed. They planned to leave after a couple of minutes – but they stayed to the end. It was a production for everyone – not just deaf people. Shakespeare gave us an opportunity to show the poetry, richness and beauty of BSL.