Crack open the sloe gin and pick those blackberries. Following a mild winter and warm spring, Britain is celebrating one of its earliest and most abundant harvests on record, say foragers, gardeners, farmers and conservationists.Even though Ladbrokes was offering 6-4 odds this week that snow would fall somewhere in Britain this August bank holiday weekend, Matthew Oates, a naturalist at the National Trust, said he was amazed by the prolific wild harvest, emerging three weeks earlier than usual.“It’s almost as good as it’s ever going to get. The hedgerows are already well-reddened. It’s been a stupendous year for nuts, seeds and berries, both wild and domesticated – so it’s good for the birds, the mice, squirrels and voles. The holly has done so well we should bring Christmas forward. The sloes will be great. Virtually all our trees and bushes flowered ridiculously early this year and produced nuts. In theory, there is plenty for everyone.“It’s not because autumn is arriving early but because we had a very early and rapid spring on the back of a mild and wet winter. While 2013 saw one of the coldest and latest springs ever, this year was the absolute opposite.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The sloes will be great. Virtually all our tree and bushes flowered ridiculously early this year.’ Photograph: AlamyOates said it had not just been nuts and berries galore from the Lake District south, but there had been a population explosion of mice, insects and squirrels in the countryside. “Only Piglet may not be so happy: there seem to be far fewer acorns this year, perhaps because last year was so abundant,” he said.Daniel Butler, a mycologist based at Aberystwyth University, said: “It’s been a good year for trees, so that should mean a very good year for fungi and mushrooms. The cepes are starting to come up now. I used not to bother picking them until September but it looks like a good, early, year.”Among other professional foragers Oates said that there seemed to be growing interest in Britain in gathering “free” wild food.But Marcus Harrison, who runs the Wild Food school, in Cornwall, warned: “The last thing we need is 60 million people all heading for the hedgerows. People do not understand how easy it is to destroy a bit of woodland or a hedgerow by overpicking or picking at the wrong time.”Simon King, who runs the 1861 restaurant near the Welsh foodie town of Abergavenny, said: “I’ve been picking ‘chicken of the woods’ [Laetiporus sulphureus] mushrooms as well as cepes. The elderberries are ripening up well so I’ll make a vinegar with them. The brambles are really juicy and plump. We’re still making nettle risotto.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cepes (Boletus edulis) growing in moss. Photograph: Ovia Images/AlamyFruit pickers are anticipating a particularly good year. Wild whinberries are prolific on the Berwyn hills, in Wales, sloes are abundant in southern England, and elderberries, dewberries and crab apples, are ripening fast everywhere. The blackberry harvest should be excellent, jam-makers say, but it still needs a week or two of late summer sun for it to be a bumper year.Commercial apple growers, who were hit by hailstorms several times this year, still expect a good harvest, too.“Picking is just about to start in Kent, that’s about three weeks earlier than normal,” said Carl Wildish, a spokesman for the West Kent Apple Growers Association, a group of 10 orchard owners together harvesting about 2,500 tonnes a year. “There’s a biggish crop, more than last year. Mother nature dictates completely what we get.”Allotment holders and food growers in London report a distinctly upbeat mood among growers, with millions of pounds’ worth of vegetables and fruit being grown at community-owned sites.“People started gardening much earlier this year. There’s been a really good summer and we expect a bumper harvest – considerably better than last year. When the weather is good and the plants are growing, people talk to their neighbours and there’s more sharing. It’s been fantastic this year,” said Paola Guzman, a project officer at Capital Growth, a group of more than 2,000 community gardens, allotment holders and urban farmers growing food in the capital. Together they estimate that more than £1.5m of food will have been grown by amateurs in the city in 2014.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A farmer harvesting barley corn in Norfolk. Photograph: David Wootton/AlamyEven traditionally grumpy professional farmers have had to admit that this year has been good.Barry Garner, a cereal farmer in south Norfolk, grows 275 acres (111 hectares) of wheat, barley and oats. “It’s been fantastic. The best year ever. It’s all down to the weather. The harvest of 1984 was legendary but this has been better than that. We had practically no winter, then just about the right amount of wets and dries. I reckon we got 20% more cereal than normal.“The trouble is the world is expecting a record harvest so that has knocked the price of wheat. Two years ago we were getting twice as much money per tonne of food as we are getting now.“I am an eternal optimist, though. Things change dramatically. By Christmas there could be droughts in Australia and frosts in Ukraine and suddenly it all changes again.”