Since Prince’s death on Thursday, seemingly every musician who has taken to a stage has paid tribute to the star’s funky genius. Some did so by playing their own songs – Noel Gallagher performed Live Forever, Pearl Jam performed Light Years – while DJs such as David Guetta had the easy option of just spinning a record. Others, though, went through the Prince back catalogue, and then usually just played Purple Rain anyway. Here are some of the stars’ tributes to Prince …Bruce Springsteen – Purple Rain   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? Barclays Center, BrooklynWhen? 23 AprilAnything else? “There was no one better,” Springsteen told the crowd. “Whenever I caught one of his shows, I came away humbled. I’m going to miss that. I’m going to miss him.” This was the third time this year he has used live performance to pay tribute to a musician who has died, following his versions of Glenn Frey’s Take It Easy and David Bowie’s Rebel Rebel. He later released the performance as a free download.Corey Taylor – Purple Rain   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? First Avenue, MinneapolisWhen? 21 AprilAnything else? The Slipknot frontman is currently embarking on a solo acoustic tour of the US, and found himself in Prince’s hometown on the day the singer died. First Avenue – where the live scenes in Purple Rain were filmed – is perhaps the venue most associated with Prince. So what else could he play?Sufjan Stevens and Gallant – Purple Rain   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? Coachella festival, CaliforniaWhen? 22 AprilAnything else? Coachella was a veritable Prince tribute festival. LCD Soundsystem covered Controversy. As well as joining Sufjan Stevens, Gallant brought Jhené Aiko on stage to perform Diamonds and Pearls during his own set. Joey Bada$$ and Ellie Goulding dropped in snippets of Prince. Jack Ü finished their set with a Prince montage. Mavis Staples, who actually worked with Prince, made a speech in tribute to him.Mumford & Sons – Nothing Compares 2 U   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? Xcel Energy Center, Saint PaulWhen? 21 AprilAnything else? The Mumfords pitched up in the other half of the Twin Cities – Saint Paul – and, like Corey Taylor, had little choice but to roll out the cover. It was probably helpful that they’re less about banjos and hoedowns now, and kudos to them for not falling back on Purple Rain. Stevie Wonder – Purple Rain   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? CBS This MorningWhen? 22 AprilAnything else? Called on by the host to pay musical tribute, Stevie Wonder rolled out the briefest of tributes to Prince, offering the chorus of Purple Rain before explaining “It’s hard”, and then restarting instrumentally. The previous night, on CNN, Wonder had seemed close to tears as he paid tribute to one of the few musicians who matched him as a cross-genre, multi-instrumentalist, songwriting genius.Tori Kelly – When Doves Cry   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? The Fillmore, Charlotte, NCWhen? 21 AprilAnything else? Proof it wasn’t just the old folks who loved Prince’s music came from one of this year’s best new artist Grammy nominees, with a very decent, reimagined When Doves Cry.Jimmy Buffet – Purple Rain   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? Walnut Creek Ampitheatre, Raleigh, NCWhen? 21 AprilAnything else? Very much the wild card in this list, Buffet is famed in the US for purveying the “island escapist” lifestyle to baby boomers. And for owning two restaurant chains named after his songs – Cheeseburger in Paradise and Margaritaville. A peformance of Purple Rain was probably the last thing his fans expected. In fact, his version is not dissimilar to Springsteen’s.Old Crow Medicine Show – Purple Rain   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where? Von Braun Center, Huntsville, ALWhen? 21 AprilAnything else? Who said Prince couldn’t write a country song? Old Crow Medicine Show – joined by Guardian music favourite Margo Price – brought out the pedal steel and fiddle for their own tribute.