The modern-day spy requires all the “innate courage and skill set” of John le Carré’s most famous cold war protagonists in a digital age, according to Tom Hiddleston, star of The Night Manager.The 35-year-old actor, who plays spy Jonathan Pine in a BBC adaptation of the Le Carré novel, said the plot may be a far cry from Smiley, but the role of the undercover agent today is, arguably, more dangerous.As the BBC begins its £20m six-part Sunday-night thriller, Hiddleston, writing in the Radio Times,  said the nature of information-sharing may have changed in the digital age. “The riots in Cairo during the Arab spring uprisings of 2011, which brought about the resignation of former Egyptian leader Hosni Mubarak [the opening scenes of The Night Manager] were mobilised through Facebook, but the innate courage and the skill set of the spy remains the same,” he wrote.“A spy must possess an almost unnatural ability to dissimulate, to hide in plain sight and a capacity for self-effacement and self-invention, which in itself is dangerous.” Quiz: how much do you know about John le Carré? Hiddleston plays a former British soldier with a service record in the Iraq war of 2003 who is discovered working as the night manager of a hotel in Zermatt, Switzerland, and is recruited by intelligence operative Angela Burr, played by Olivia Colman.His mission is to infiltrate the inner circle of the charming Richard Roper, played by Hugh Laurie, a British expatriate and criminal purveyor of dangerous chemical weapons to the highest bidder in the Middle East.“On the face of it, the political backdrop of The Night Manager bears little resemblance to Smiley’s world, but there are striking similarities,” writes Hiddleston. “We no longer fear the outbreak of nuclear war between east and west but we now have other forces of enmity and darkness, which give us even greater cause to be frightened.“Our enemies in the past decade have presented themselves in the form of extremist jihadist groups – the criminal anarchy of al-Qaida or the barbaric evil of Isis – and the ground seems continually to shift beneath our feet. In the attempts of the allied power of the west to confront these new threats, they take on the character of a terrifying, many-headed Hydra: chop off one head and two more will grow back in its place. The world is as dangerous as ever.”Roper, who “trades in death, profits from it and laughs” is, in Le Carré’s words, the worst man in the world.John le Carré on The Night Manager on TV: they’ve totally changed my book – but it works “Angela Burr and Jonathan Pine choose to protest against the evil of Richard Roper in the bravest, most dangerous way imaginable. Pine must live, undercover, within the jaws of the beast, knowing that they could snap shut at any time. And if ever that cover is blown he’s a dead man,” writes Hiddleston.Le Carré has admitted he had “misgivings” when he learned that The Night Manager was to become a six-hour television drama radically updated for our time.Writing in the Guardian, he said they became even greater when he discovered that the novel he had written nearly a quarter of a century ago had been transformed into a drama featuring not his “beloved Colombian drugs barons but “Middle Eastern warlords”. To cap it all his leading investigator was no longer Mr Leonard Burr, but Mrs Angela Burr, and pregnant to boot.“To all of which, a lesser being such as myself might reasonably have responded: why not write your own bloody novel? With all those changes, what’s left of mine?” he wrote. “And the answer, surprisingly, is: a great deal is left, more than I dared hope.”The Night Manager begins on BBC1 Sunday at 9pm. The novel is reissued this month by Penguin Modern Classics.