Swing your pants in celebration because next month the V&A traces the history of underwear design in a new exhibition, Undressed: A Brief History of Culture. What better excuse for a quick flash of popular culture’s 10 most iconic undies moments?Monroe’s seven-year knicks (1955)Fifties pin-ups Bettie Page and Jayne Mansfield modelled “bullet bras” but the decade’s definitive moment came when Marilyn Monroe stood on a New York City subway grate in The Seven Year Itch and the breeze billowed up her white dress to reveal matching pants (two pairs to preserve her modesty).Liz Taylor’s slip (1958) An enduringly sexy – albeit modest by today’s standards – image in cinematic history. In the film adaptation of Tennessee Williams’s Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Maggie “the Cat” Pollitt (Oscar-nominated Elizabeth Taylor) lounged on a brass bed in a simple white slip and heels. Miaow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elizabeth Taylor in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. Photograph: Snap/Rex/ShutterstockRaunchy music (1974)The cover of Roxy Music’s Country Life album featured two models wearing decadent disco-era lingerie, snapped in front of foliage in Portugal. Deemed so rude, even the Dutch banned it.Tom’s tighty-whiteys (1983)The scene that turned the toothy titch into a star. In the coming-of-age comedy Risky Business, the Cruiser’s improvised dance to Bob Seger’s Old Time Rock and Roll saw him sliding across hardwood floors in a pink shirt and white Y-fronts.Madonna’s conical bra (1990)Her Madgesty popularised “underwear as outerwear”. Jean Paul Gaultier provided the costumes for her Blond Ambition Tour, including the infamous pink satin cone bra. Gaultier first designed it as a child growing up in suburban Paris - for his teddy bear, Nana.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Wahlberg and Kate Moss model Calvin Klein underwear. Photograph: Calvin KleinCK rules OK (1992)The grungy, grittily minimalist mood of the early 90s was personified by topless teen Kate Moss and rapper “Marky” Mark Wahlberg (minus the Funky Bunch) in Bruce Weber’s black-and-white Calvin Klein ads. Sales of unisex scent and pants with branded waistbands duly soared.Eva’s Wonderbra (1994)Gossard’s cleavage-boosting, push-up bra ruled the mid-90s, thanks to its traffic-stopping billboard ads, starring the Czech supermodel Eva Herzigová with the saucy caption, “Hello boys”.Bridget’s big pants (2001)“Bridget Jones, wanton sex goddess, with a very bad man between her thighs... Mum... Hi.” In the hit film of Helen Fielding’s bestseller, Bridget Jones’s Diary, Renée Zellweger was getting down to business with her boss, Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant), when he discovered her “enormous panties”.Borat’s mankini (2006)A fluorescent green “sling swimsuit” (not, strictly speaking, underwear, but an unmentionable like no other) was modelled by Sacha Baron Cohen at the Cannes film festival to promote his film Borat. The eye-watering garment has since become a popular stag do and fancy dress outfit. Is nice!Beckham’s bulge (2012)Goldenballs became Goldenbulge when David Beckham launched his own line of H&M “bodywear” and posed in a pair of £7.99 briefs. His sons saw the semi-naked shots and groaned, “Not again, Daddy.”