When Forced Entertainment set out to stage tabletop versions of Shakespeare’s plays, we ditched Henry VIII and split the remaining 36 plays between the six of us. Then we each drew titles out of a hat. When I saw that I had The Taming of the Shrew, my first response was of dread: this is just sexist nonsense. (I probably knew more about Kiss Me Kate than The Taming of the Shrew.)In the play, a merchant has two daughters and a major problem. Everybody wants to marry the younger one, Bianca, who is beautiful and gentle, while the older daughter, Katherina, is considered a shrew. When Petruchio turns up, he says he is happy to marry Katherina for financial gain. He tells her, quite bluntly, that she has to marry someone and it might as well be him. Petruchio decides to “tame” Katherina like a hawk, depriving her of food and sleep until she is completely exhausted and utterly reliant on him. Katherina realises eventually that in order to survive she has to negotiate, be diplomatic, use realpolitik.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Forced Entertainment’s cast for The Taming of the ShrewOur tabletop performances use household objects to represent the characters. The first time I did The Taming of the Shrew, my retelling was rather angry. Petruchio was played by a carton of jerk seasoning called Slap Ya Mama, the name written in big red letters. Poor Katherina was a half-empty bag of crisps, left crushed by the end. But the more I worked on the text, read around it and played with my people, the more I could recognise how complicated it actually is: it’s a commentary, a question, a cautionary tale. It has a lot of fun with mistaken identities and disguises and pokes fun at pomposity, greed and vanity.In my version now, Katherina is represented by a china and metal rose that’s both beautiful and spiky. Petruchio is a beer mug-shaped jar of mustard – very handsome and the perfect gift. A lot of tellings of the play are full of sexual electricity – they’re very Burton and Taylor. But that feels like a bit of a smokescreen. I got very interested in the idea of submitting, of playing a part that allows others to play theirs.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sexual electricity … Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor in Franco Zeffirelli’s 1967 film version of The Taming of the Shrew. Photograph: Everett Collection/Rex FeaturesKatherina doesn’t really have much space to speak until the end, when she gives an extraordinary speech in which she says: why argue? It’s better to live in harmony. Men and women are different. Is it so hard to play a role? Her speech is sad and hopeful, and I wanted it to hang in the air – a question not an answer.The idea of tabletop performances was one of those Forced Entertainment conversations that has gone on for years. We realised that we had more in common with Shakespeare than we might have originally thought: the plays within plays, talking to the audience, the insistence on being here and now. We don’t tend to do interpretations of other people’s work, but as we’ve got older we’ve become less scared of that and more interested in what it is to tell someone else’s stories. And the discovery that Shakespeare himself borrowed so many plots, twisting them to suit his own means, really resonated with us.The performances are very much solo pieces. It was an unusual way for us to work. We would work in pairs, sitting on opposite sides of the table and showing each other what we were doing. The first performance we did of Complete Works was as part of Berliner Festspiele over nine days, and although most of the plays are under an hour long, it did feel like a marathon. It was hard to think or talk about anything except Shakespeare.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘These objects aren’t pretending’ … Claire Marshall. Photograph: Hugo GlendinningDoing the pieces, you are director, narrator and performer, and you can’t help but bring something of yourself to the telling of the story. You have to really care about the objects. It’s a bit like puppetry. At the start we thought we could use any old objects, but then we all became quite obsessive about our casting and raided our bathrooms and kitchens. There is something moving about watching an orange being frightened, a tin of mackerel falling in love, a can of hairspray being humiliated, a Pritt Stick dying. These objects aren’t pretending or acting; you, the viewer, have to do the work, allow it to happen. The casting process has been hard to shake off. You go into a shop and think: “Oh, that’s an interesting bottle; who could it play?” We’re having to replace some of the cast now and need to re-buy certain things. So you find yourself in a bargain shop, holding a tin of brussels sprouts and saying: “You’ve changed the packaging! That’s the Duke of Milan!” It’s certainly made us all look at objects very differently.Forced Entertainment: Complete Works is at the Barbican, London, 1-6 March.