It’s an odd artform, standup – not least in its relationship to spontaneity. More so than other performing arts, it’s committed to the pretence of seeming off-the-cuff, and never more so than in the crowd work that still opens so many shows. “And what do you do for a living? … And is this your husband?” You know the drill. For many acts, this is pivotal to what they do. It establishes from the get-go their bonhomie, their quick wit, their common touch and – sometimes – their lovable indiscipline, as they feign frustration with themselves for not getting on with the proper (ie scripted) show.Adam Hills review – bland standup show packs a feeble comic punch How we experience this part of a show can be one of the differences between hardened and casual comedy audiences. When it’s done well – when a comic shelves the stock responses, follows the logic of an unlikely chat with the crowd or embraces the chaos it can bring – I can enjoy it as much as the greenest comedy ingenue. But when it’s a token five minutes to set the show rolling … well, I’ve seen it done so many times that I can’t easily submit to the illusion that it’s extempore. When a standup asks, “Anyone here got kids?” or “Any married couples in?”, you can set your watch by them getting a laugh from how exhausted the response sounds. If a standup encounters a child in the front few rows, they will assuredly warn them – wink, wink; giggle, giggle – of the, ahem, “educational” experience in store. And when a comic asks, “Any Americans in the room?”, and there’s no response, they will as surely as day follows night follow up with a wicked: “Good!”It’s such a staple, this opening chat, that many comics who don’t indulge in it feel obliged to explain why: to send up their own weak impro skills or mock the cliches of crowd work – the lie, as they see it, that their fellow comics are remotely interested in the lives of their audience. These anti-crowd-work postures are themselves cliches, of course. And I’ve seen another emerge recently, which reached its apotheosis (or nadir) when sunshiney Aussie comic Adam Hills gigged in Guildford the other week. A postmodern take on the “And what do you do?” shtick, it involves the comic complaining at the unfunniness of the answers he or she gets back from his crowd.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Al Murray works the crowdI say postmodern because it takes as read our expectation that the comic will turn the raw material of our responses into comedy, and then subverts it because (according to this routine) modern jobs are too blandly meaningless to joke about. So in this instance, Hills asks his entire front row, one after another, for their line of work, and when “project assistant” follows “account manager” follows “brand consultant” (I paraphrase), he reacts as if dismayed that no one has a job he can possibly mine for humour.On the night in question, Hills’s audience were delighted by this. So, job done. But it felt overplayed to me. By the time he was halfway along the front row, rejecting everyone’s job as a comedy dead-end, the joke felt insincere (there was nothing exceptionally bland about the jobs volunteered), ever so slightly rude (man with glamorous job calls everyone else’s jobs boring), and also self-defeating. If you accept this as a routine Hills performs every night, then his mounting surprise rings fraudulent. If you accept it as spontaneous, then it makes him look inadequate: incapable of mining jokes from perfectly normal jobs, desperately waiting for someone to say “dominatrix” or “ski shop owner” before he can cook up anything funny in response.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stunt comedian Richard Gadd, performing at Glasgow International Comedy Festival. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianIt’s not fair to single out Hills, who isn’t alone in playing the modern-jobs-aren’t-funny game with his front-row stooges. But watching him at it made me realise what a tricky game it is. It can work, of course (lots of modern job titles and indeed jobs are pretty vapid), but only in small doses. The experience drove me back into the arms, effectively, of trad, uncomplicated crowd-work, the old masters of which – Al Murray, Frank Skinner – don’t waste time pretending to be stumped, but gleefully set about turning whatever comes their way into comedy. Whether it’s spontaneous or not scarcely matters when you’re in the company of a comic who can find something unexpectedly funny, instantly, in seemingly anything.Three to seeGlasgow international comedy festivalOmid Djalili, Jena Friedman, Sean Hughes and Waiting for Gaddot – a cracking piece of stunt-comedy by Richard Gadd – are among the highlights of Glasgow’s annual funny fest.• Various venues, until 27 March. Comedy for CalaisTonight’s the last night of the Arcola in Dalston’s week-long festival of comedy, with proceeds going towards building shelters for refugees. It’s worth catching, and features appearances by weird cartoon-comics Goose and the fine character-comedy double act Lazy Susan. • Arcola theatre, London, tonight. Stuart GoldsmithNow better known for his successful Comedian’s Comedian podcast, former street performer Goldsmith is no mean standup himself, and now embarks on a debut tour with last year’s Free Fringe outing, entitled An Hour.• Just the Tonic, Nottingham, tonight. Then touring.