When Vinyl, HBO’s much-hyped new drama about the music industry in 1970s New York, starts next Sunday, it will be the first of a host of shows celebrating that decade in the Big Apple. In the summer, Netflix will air Baz Luhrmann’s The Get Down, which looks at the birth of hip-hop in the South Bronx during the same period, while David Simon, creator of The Wire, will return to HBO with The Deuce, a drama about the porn industry in New York during the 70s and 80s, starring James Franco and Maggie Gyllenhaal.And it’s not just television that thinks New York in the 70s is where it’s at. One of the most eagerly awaited novels of last year was Garth Risk Hallberg’s City on Fire, which follows a cast of characters in the aftermath of a murder in Central Park in 1976. In 2012 Vanity Fair journalist James Wolcott traced his own experiences of arriving as a young man in the city in 1972 in Lucking Out: My Life Getting Down and Semi-Dirty in Seventies New York; Rachel Kushner’s much-praised 2013 novel The Flamethrowers is set in the SoHo art world of the late 70s; and Patti Smith’s bestselling 2010 memoir, Just Kids, looked back on the singer’s relationship with both artist Robert Mapplethorpe and New York in the same period. It is also being made into a TV series, co-written by Smith.When New York danced to disco's beat – in pictures So why is this particular period in New York history so popular? It’s no secret that television executives hunt in packs – hence the number of quasi-medieval fantasies currently clogging up the screen in the wake of Game of Thrones – but this nostalgia for New York in the 70s is a very specific one, driven by the feeling that this was the last time the city was truly cool, a place for rebels and romantics, where danger was less a hint in the air than an everyday fact of life.“In hindsight that period in New York is very romantic,” says Terence Winter, Vinyl’s writer. “And 1973, when the show starts, is a fascinating year because it’s the year that punk, disco and hip-hop all happen, plus New York during this period is a fascinating place because it was at such a low point economically and very crime-ridden, but it was also a really fertile place for art and music.”Two years later, in 1975, President Gerald Ford refused to bail out a bankrupt New York, leading to one of the all-time great newspaper front pages, “Ford to City: Drop Dead” in the New York Daily News. A year later, postal worker David Berkowitz terrorised the city with the Son of Sam killings, and then, in the summer of 1977, a citywide blackout saw widespread looting and arson.Winter admits that this sense of turmoil, of an outlaw city on the verge of collapse, is an additional part of the appeal. “I grew up as a teenager in what I’d call Taxi Driver New York: that’s the New York I remember,” he says. “And it was just very alive and electric and scary. Even walking in the subway and on the street was sort of thrilling and exhilarating, because you had to continually look around you to check you were safe. I always made it a practice to walk in the middle of the street at night. You never walked on the sidewalk because you didn’t know what was going to pop out at you from the doorways.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   New York police patrol Harlem in 1978. Photograph: Alain Le Garsmeur/Getty ImagesThese days, as New York grows increasingly sanitised, its famed landmarks demolished or sold off as real estate, its most vibrant areas repurposed as luxury loft apartments for hedge fund managers, that older, wilder city with its edge and attitude seems increasingly attractive. It may not have been safe, but it was a place where even the poorest kid with big ideas could dream of making it as big as the Frank Sinatra song had promised.“One of the biggest challenges we had when filming Vinyl was how much the city has been cleaned up since the 70s,” says Winter. “There wasn’t enough trash or graffiti; we had to make the buildings look like they were falling down. There’s a Whole Foods store on The Bowery these days, which for someone who grew up in New York in the 70s and 80s is just mind-blowing. I never thought I’d see the day when it was more expensive to live on the Lower East Side than the Upper East Side. It’s completely upside down.”What marks these new shows out, however, is that they aren’t interested in simply repacking a romanticised dream of life back then, but are instead turning to expert testimony to ensure that everything feels just right. The Get Down’s list of executive producers and consultants reads like a who’s who of New York old school hip-hop: Grandmaster Flash, Afrika Bambaataa, DJ Kool Herc and author Nelson George. Vinyl is executive produced by Mick Jagger and directed by the king of the city’s mean streets, Martin Scorsese.Love Goes to Buildings on Fire by Will Hermes review: New York's 70s musical revolution remembered “The pedigree of this show really opened doors,” says Bobby Cannavale, who plays Vinyl’s leading man, the troubled record executive Richie Finestra. “I just had access to anybody from that period I wanted to talk to, from [record producer] Clive Davis to Patti Smith. It was incredible.”For Cannavale, who grew up outside New York and admits “the mythology of the city was formed very young for me – I’m so in love with it”, the appeal of the period comes down to a sense that it was a more authentic time. “Just look at the music of that period – when the show opens in 1973, we’re six months away from CBGB’s opening and the start of the Ramones, the New York Dolls, Television, Patti, all those great acts,” he says. “The music and culture of that time is so legit, and I think that’s what people are nostalgic for.”His co-star, Olivia Wilde, agrees: “People today are still fighting the good fight to make authentic music, but you can see the commodification of the industry today, the way everything is made for mass production. I think that has led to people searching for authenticity, which is why a show like this has such a strong appeal.”Vinyl starts on Sky Atlantic on Monday 15 February at 2am, repeated at 9pm; The Get Down opens on Netflix on 12 AugustMUSIC MILESTONES14 February 1970 – DJ David Mancuso hosts Love Saves The Day, the first of his “invitation only” parties at the nightclub that will become known as The Loft.11 August 1973 – DJ Kool Herc, aka Clive Campbell, starts to develop what will become hip-hop at a concert in the recreation centre at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue, the Bronx, by introducing breaking and scratching during his set.December 1973 – CBGB opens on The Bowery in New York’s Lower East Side. Among the bands that will make their names there are Television and the Ramones.13 December 1975 – Patti Smith releases Horses, one of the seminal New York albums of the decade.16 April 1977 – Studio 54, the most glitzy club of the era, opens its doors for the first time.1977 – Afrika Bambaataa, aka Kevin Donovan, forms the Universal Zulu Nation, a collective of rappers, b-boys and graffiti artists, and begins hosting block parties that include DJ battles.