Jessie Kahnweiler’s Sundance debut is a film about a female artist trying to break through into the mainstream while struggling with a drug addict ex-boyfriend, an overbearing mother, and a years-long struggle with bulimia. Sounds like your typical indie movie drama, right? Well, too bad this isn’t a movie, it’s a web series made for Refinery 29, a lifestyle site aimed at millennial women. Oh, and it’s not a drama at all, it’s a comedy. The Skinny, a series of six episodes around 10-minutes long released to the public concurrent to its festival debut, follows a wannabe feminist YouTube star also named Jessie as she tries to strike it big in the cut-throat world of social media influencers. Just to make life even harder, her boyfriend Cole (Spencer Hill) just got out of rehab and her overbearing mother (Ileana Douglas, also an executive producer) is after her to make something of her life. All of this manages to cause Jessie’s body image issues and struggle with bulimia to flare up.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Yes, it all sounds dreadfully serious, but it’s a testament to Kahnweiler’s charisma and talent that she manages to find the humour in these situations and pull it off. Especially engaging is the series’ third episode, where she teams up with a trio of 19-year-old Vine stars in the hopes that she can go viral and get even more attention on her YouTube videos. Each episode includes a snippet of one Jessie’s YouTube videos, which are Kahnweiler’s actual uploads, like one where she tries to “fuck a vet”. These are especially valuable because after watching them the audience knows that Jessie has what it takes to be the next big thing. It’s also evident that if people who teach how to put on eyeliner have millions of followers, Kahnweiler deserves twice that. However, like so much on YouTube, The Skinny can be overly sincere and didactic, taking on the tone of an after-school special or one of the old “women’s issue films” at times. Kahnweiler has spoken about her own issues surrounding eating disorders in the past, but the way the symptoms are manifested in almost humorous binges (no one would honestly try to eat a whole stalk of Romaine lettuce in a mouthful) sometimes make it seem as if she’s making light of them.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The series’ strength lies in the way its characters are written. Jessie, Cole and Jessie’s mother are all fully rounded, with frailties and failings that nevertheless don’t define them. Jessie’s struggles with weight and identity are just one aspect of a complex and funny woman, and when that is evident, the show really shines. These moments may be the hand of Transparent creator Jill Soloway, who pulls this off so wonderfully on her own series and who executive-produced this project with Andrea Sperling and Rebecca Odes. Kahnweiler is a great talent who someday will make something absolutely genius, possibly on a platform that hasn’t been invented yet. While The Skinny is a highly enjoyable web series, it’s a few steps shy from being mind-blowing. It’s frustrating because it’s almost there. The Skinny is one of a number of television shows that premiered at this year’s festival in the Special Events section but most of the others are either airing on conventional cable channels or the holy triumvirate of established streaming services: Netflix, Amazon and Hulu. Refinery29 is the only website represented and that sure takes some chutzpah. The Skinny is one of 29 original series that R29 is introducing this year in a big push towards original video content it announced last spring. It is produced to a very high quality, has a strong singular voice, and should hit right in the heart of the site’s young, female demographic. It’s a reminder that the future of cinema may not be in the movies but in that little screen you carry in your pocket (or pocketbook) every day. And that’s the real skinny. 