The big news in music over the past 10 years or so may not be Kanye or Adele or Taylor but you, the listener. Access is power, and a great deal of the history of western music, and much else besides, is now in your phones or on your desks, via YouTube or a streaming service – Spotify, Pandora, Apple Music, Tidal, whatever – for free, or for a modest price. I know you know that, but mark the moment. Spotify (which turns 10 this year) and its equivalent forces have altered your relationship with music. You’ve got unprecedented riches on your hands.What are you going to do with these? Let them sit there? No, you’re going to listen to them. And doing so might help shape the way you walk and talk: your thoughts, taste and identity. Listening to anything, especially when you haven’t heard it before, is a highly creative act; but a little less so, I think, when you let the computers do the choosing for you, when you listen through if-you-like-x-you’ll-like-y recommendation engines, based on your perceived listening patterns, and whatever else your streaming service may know about you.The algorithmic music recommendation business suggests an opposite scenario to the music-appreciation movement of the first half of the 20th century. Books such as Aaron Copland’s What to Listen for in Music (1939) sought to increase accessibility by democratising a prescribed kind of “good taste”: they wanted the average person to be a reasonably educated listener, which at the time meant knowing roughly what the composers intended in the most famous works of European classical music, from, say, Bach to Brahms. The listener’s range of access was assumed to be limited. Composers, publishers and record companies held the power.Now the listener’s range of access is vast, and you, the listener, hold the power. But only if you listen better than you are being listened to.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bleecker Bob’s Records, New York, in the late 70s. Photograph: Ebet Roberts/RedfernsI am a music critic at the New York Times. Sometimes, listeners will suddenly open their windows to music they hadn’t previously known, creating their own framework for understanding it. Sometimes I play a part in this process. You have no idea how much that pleases me, especially when their reasons for responding to it are difficult to recognise. A little while ago I became interested both in the idealistic, blinkered spirit of the music-appreciation movement of the past, and in the great, boundless tumble of listening’s present, and decided to write a book about possible ways to listen now.Because I have lived half my life without the internet, I often think of my phone as a bricks-and-mortar record store or library, to which I have 24-hour access. But that’s not quite right. In stores and libraries you can see the stock in context; you can move through stacks and sections without exactly knowing where you’re going; learn enormous amounts by accident because of alphabetical proximity, the range of the eye, the lighting of the space. Through a complex reading of signs and symbols, you discern the politics and history of the place you’re in and the artefact you’re holding. You might ask questions as needed, depending on your level of interest. Sometimes you need to go back and find something again; sometimes it’s not there, and the wanting of that thing can make a passion grow. With online listening, what's demanded of you in the moment of encounter is basically a noncognitive passivity My sense is that this interactive dumb-luck process can have a great effect on your life. By contrast, online listening, great as it is, hides the metadata from you. The tiny amount of information you are given is rendered uniformly in the streaming service’s typesetting and format. You can’t see anything except what the service wants you to see, and so you have no awareness of what’s in the back of the store, or even that there is a back of the store. What’s demanded of you in the moment of encounter is basically a noncognitive passivity.Spotify’s Discover Weekly playlist, which is provided automatically if you have a subscription to the service, is the most sophisticated recommendation engine involving algorithms that I’ve come across. It connects your taste to that of other users it has judged as akin to yours. It seeks to know not only what you like but what you appear to be looking for. It recognises if you are a casual listener and, if so, it appeals to your comfort; or an obscurant, in which case it appeals to particular aspects of your snobbery. (It moved me deeply a couple of times over the past few weeks with songs I hadn’t known before: Life Without Buildings’ “The Leanover” and Kadhja Bonet’s “Remember the Rain”.)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘The Leanover’ by Life Without Buildings.But listening is creative and personal, and with Discover Weekly I am aware of being profiled by forces I do not know and cannot see. I am being given an ongoing accessory for someone of my type. Often I hate the results, even if I like half the songs: I feel intensely frustrated by what it has reduced me to. I want not to be pandered to by genre, or era, or a reduced, sellable version of a mood.Simon Critchley, the English philosopher who lives in New York, recently told me how much he liked Discover Weekly. It played him Swedish electro-pop he didn’t know, and things he’d known and liked in the distant past – DAF, Van der Graaf Generator. But then he made a face. “It’s wallpaper, though,” he said. “They’re making it wallpaper.”I figure that the old way of music appreciation, which usually begins with composing experiences – understanding the function of harmony and melody and rhythm, and then on to sonata form and so forth – can be augmented by a new mode, which sorts out the current abundance into different kinds of listening experiences. I don’t want to tell you how to access music – most likely it will take some searching and noticing on your part, and taking suggestions from people you know or trust; I only want to suggest ways of unlocking this great abundance that don’t align with a marketing one-sheet of who you are. There could be hundreds of other ways. Here are five for starters.Repetition      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Repetition, a trick used to good effect by Rihanna, is there to heighten sensitivity. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/WireImageRepetition isn’t a musical term per se. You don’t need to have ever heard a song in your life to know what it is … it’s in your vital signs and your basic habits. And so, perhaps by thinking about repetition in music with a reasonably wide frame – large-scale repetition, in which repeating is the compositional point, as in Steve Reich’s hypnotic “Four Organs”; James Brown’s “Ain’t It Funky Now,” with its creeping, repeated vamps; Rihanna’s “Don’t Stop the Music”, et cetera – it’s possible to start thinking about what repetition is for.Repetition in a song is a little film trailer for the experience of a long life. But it’s also a game, a way to make you focus on everything in the song that is in fact non-repetitive: the slight hesitations and discrepancies between musicians as the chord and the rhythm persists through the measures. It’s a trick to heighten sensitivity. (“Repetition is so fantastic; anti-glop,” Lou Reed wrote in Aspen, the multimedia magazine, in December 1966. He was right.)The single repeated note      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Master of the one note: Thelonious Monk, in 1959. Photograph: W. Eugene Smith/APRepetition has a cousin in the single repeated note. This is repetition on the small scale, and a bit different. It’s not a planned, immersive atmosphere; it’s often improvised, a solo or part of a solo, and often boils down to a game of chicken between musician and listener: how far can I go with this and keep you on the hook? I’m talking about Thelonious Monk’s piano solo in “Thelonious”, from 1947, in which he plays one note for eight bars. Or Drake’s “Furthest Thing”, in which his flat, nasal voice keeps sidling up to a single note and taking residence there. Or Neil Young’s one-note guitar solo in “Cinnamon Girl”, a classic of the form.Speed   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Martha Argerich plays Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody No 6.Excessive speed in music is a form of showing off, but, as with the single repeated note, it’s also a series of deep questions: how much information can you process in motion? What do you want out of music? Why are you here? You’re asked those questions by Martha Argerich taking her final laps in Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody no. 6, in a film from 1966 on YouTube; and in Jerry Lee Lewis’s maniacal “High School Confidential”, which he performed with the Nashville Teens, from “Live at the Star Club”. Find the spirit of one, you’ve found the spirit of the other.Slowness   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Radically slow … Sarah Vaughan’s Lover ManThere is a charm involved in chasing a tempo slightly faster than you can reach, but if you make slow music – slower than it needs to be – it is a serious business: you’ve got to own that tempo, and imply something through it. Better if it’s a big something, a life-and-death-and-afterlife matter. The feeling in a slow tempo is of the musician growing dangerously close to renouncing the contract with the listener – doing it for him or herself. Songs of love, religion and death specialise in slow tempos: Sarah Vaughan’s radical “Lover Man”, from the album Swingin’ Easy, or Shostakovich’s final string quartet, no. 15 (“Play the first movement so that flies drop dead in mid-air,” were the composer’s performance instructions). DJ Screw, from Houston, did slow tempos as well as anyone – his deep decelerations of hip-hop tracks always sound like tragic endings.Wasteful authority      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A singer in total control: rapper Young Thug. Photograph: The Washington Post/Getty ImagesSign up to our Bookmarks newsletter There are other listening experiences that are more personal: they are not fixed properties of the music, and yours will be different to mine. One is a quality I think of as “wasteful authority”: it often sounds like imperious indifference, relaxedly stubborn, stubbornly relaxed. It often comes through in the voice, and establishes such an effective system over the situation that the singer (or musician) can do pretty much anything – laugh, talk, phrase at will, ask questions, sing questionable lyrics, fill in spaces. The trickster-mouthed rapper Young Thug has it. Mark E Smith of the Fall has it. Nina Simone and Dean Martin had it.And there you have five ways of listening that a streaming service probably wouldn’t programme. There is no assurance that you will like everything within each way of listening, but each way might lead you down some new aisles, towards the back of the store.• To order Every Song Ever: Twenty Ways to Listen to Music Now for £16 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.