As the first chords rang out and fans on crutches let out a rousing cheer alongside hundreds of other survivors and relatives of the dead, it was clear that Paris was looking for a moment of rock’n’roll catharsis.Eagles of Death Metal – the Californian band on stage at the Bataclan concert hall when gunmen burst in and killed 90 people during November’s Paris terrorist attacks – on Tuesday night resumed the gig that was so tragically interrupted.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jesse Hughes of Eagles of Death Metal. Photograph: Jean Nicholas Guillo/APThe performance was a risky and sensitive undertaking, with the band themselves frequently in tears on stage, and psychologists standing by to attend to audience members if necessary.“Bonsoir Paris, we’re ready for this!” frontman Jesse Hughes shouted as he emerged to the very French strains of Paris s’éveille by Jacques Dutronc.It was clear that the American band, with all its contradictions – including Hughes’s support of US gun provisions and approval of Donald Trump – would be forever woven into the emotional and cultural history of the city. “You’re stuck with me, I’m Parisian now,” Hughes shouted. The band had promised to fight terror with “fun”, and they were determined to deliver – even if that meant pouring so much nervous energy into their gig at Paris’s Olympia concert hall that Hughes complained of “tearing a tendon in my middle finger”. The elation of being on stage was palpable, but it was also tinged with an overwhelming sadness for those trying to move on from trauma, and to pay homage to those whose lives were taken by terrorists.Eagles of Death Metal frontman: 'Everybody has to have guns' After a moment of silence to remember the dead during the first song, the band played a raucous set – deliberately omitting their song Kiss the Devil, which they had been playing when the first shots rang out in November. Hughes at one point played a guitar in the colours of the French flag, to cheers. He put on a crocheted red, white and blue scarf thrown on to stage from an audience member saying: “I want to identify the maker of that scarf, give them a big cup of cocoa and a big old hug after the show.”A frenzied rock’n’roll atmosphere was whipped up by Hughes who alternately wept, laughed, danced, smashed a guitar and held hands with a survivor in a wheelchair after he ran up to the balcony seats. He tried his best to make the occasion one of joy, despite the overarching sadness. His nerves – and tears – were evident. “Let’s make a deal, this is an emotional moment for me so if I fuck this song up, ain’t no one going to get mad at me,” he said at one point.Julien, 27, who works in a school outside Paris and survived the Bataclan gun attack, said it had been emotional but positive: “It was a way of finding closure. I was afraid the atmosphere was going to be very dark and sad. But it wasn’t like that. It was difficult, and yet it was a pleasure.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jesse Hughes holds a T-shirt prior to the start of the concert at the Olympia concert hall in Paris. Photograph: Joel Saget/AFP/Getty Images