An international debate about the efficacy of America’s criminal justice system is taking place, online and in print, under the same two-word heading. Those two words are: spoiler alert.Guilty pleasure: how Making a Murderer tapped into our weakness for true crime Whether or not you’re taking part depends largely on whether you’ve binged your way through all 10 episodes of Making a Murderer, the Netflix documentary series centring on a Wisconsin murder trial (two trials, really, but I’m giving too much away already) that took place almost a decade ago. If you haven’t finished watching it – or haven’t started – then you’re probably going to great lengths to avoid any information that might ruin it for you. If you’re all done, you will almost certainly want to find out what’s become of the main players in the true-crime drama.I crossed into the latter camp this week, after a three-day marathon, and only now do I realise quite how much of the internet is taken up with the subject. The debate is certainly a compelling one – it’s not so much about who did what, it makes you wonder exactly what the American criminal justice system is for. But it seems like we can’t discuss it openly until some kind of spoiler statute of limitations is reached. Netflix released the whole series in one go last month. How long should we give everyone to catch up?I have a great urge to divulge all the new stuff I’ve learned in the last 24 hours, but I will settle for passing on two disturbing statistics. The first is that in a country where most local prosecutors are elected officials – and therefore supposedly accountable to voters – around 85% of incumbents run unopposed. The second is that a quarter of wrongfully convicted people subsequently exonerated by DNA evidence also made a false confession or incriminating statement.If you feel such prior knowledge may impair your future enjoyment of the series, let me just say that two days ago I would have completely sympathised. Now I’m just impatient. I don’t just recommend Making a Murderer – I recommend you get on with it.Nursing a drink I went to the local surgery last week for my first routine health check since, well, ever. There was nothing in particular wrong, but I’ve reached an age when it’s embarrassing to have no medical records to speak of.My wife, who goes to the doctor more consistently, assured me that a modern health check is more like a job interview: you and a nurse sit together at a desk, trying to allay the suspicions of a computer program.The computer was happy with my blood pressure, and the amount of exercise I pretended to take. When I divulged the number of units I drank weekly it was prompted to ask further questions about my relationship with alcohol. It was a little galling to have to answer them in the middle of a dry January (or mostly dry – I started late and mean to finish early), but I said enough to satisfy the machine.Take the sepsis challengeThe computer wasn’t at all happy with my pulse, though. The number “99” brought up a whole new screen. “We’ve just got to go through this checklist to make sure you don’t have sepsis,” said the nurse.“Sepsis?” I asked.“Are you on the verge of losing consciousness?” she said. “I’ll just put ‘no’; I can see you aren’t.”“I’m probably just anxious,” I say. “I’m often anxious.”“Yes,” she said, slipping a monitor over my forefinger. “But it won’t let me past this screen until we’ve ticked everything off.”“OK,” I say, thinking how coincidental it would be if my first ever health check landed on the day that all my organs decided to shut down. The monitor on my finger was now saying my pulse was 82.“Confused?” asked the nurse.“A little,” I said.“Slurred speech?”