Some of the greatest silent films had no actors and no story. Many of the very first films fall into this category: the short films we call “actualities”, which capture glimpses of everyday life (factory workers flooding through a gate, a train entering a station). But after the actualities came something more poetic, an avant garde subgenre that gave birth to masterpieces and helped people to understand the changing world of the early 20th century.In the 1920s, the “city symphony” transformed the raw material of actualities into something more musical, modern and unexpected. The genre was born with Paul Strand and Charles Sheeler’s Manhatta (1921), which places lines from a Walt Whitman poem (Mannahatta) between unforgettable images of New York City’s architecture, towering over its residents. You can see the complete version of Manhatta at the Paul Strand exhibition currently at the Victoria and Albert Museum, along with one of his most famous photographs, which inspired the look of the film: 1915’s Wall Street.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Paul Strand’s ManhattaCity symphonies are a distinct cinematic subgenre, more lyrical than a documentary, and rooted in one urban location. The most famous example is Walter Ruttman’s Berlin: Symphony of a Great City (1927) from which the classification takes its name. Ruttman was an animator who had previously made abstract works but wanted to create “a symphonic film out of the millions of energies that comprise the life of a big city”. It’s a brilliantly exciting movie, spinning from one corner of Berlin to the next, by turns dramatising the thrills of the big city and criticising its anonymity and cruelty.City symphonies represent the meeting point of two tracks of modernism: the development of the cinema and the growth of urbanisation. Avant-gardists, excited by both, created cinematic portraits of these new, glamorous and dangerous places to live. The films often take a deliberately musical, or symphonic, structure, arranged into movements, ebbing and flowing dynamically. They often follow the course of a single day. So Manhatta begins with a scene of commuters disembarking a ferry en masse, and ends with a spectacular sunset. Berlin: Symphony of a Great City opens with the morning trains rushing into the capital and closes late at night, with scenes of its notorious nightlife, and fireworks in the black sky.Like actualities and travelogues, city symphonies can take the audience to distant places they wouldn’t dream of being able to visit. But unlike those films, the presentation of the city landscape rarely aspires to objectivity. City symphonies use editing, camera tricks and composition to capture the thrills and pitfalls of urban living. While the camera may linger on individual faces or bodies, the great spectacle is of crowds, moving along broad pavements and among monolithic buildings decked out with neon, or transported by cars and boats and trains. Many city symphonies aim to reveal the beauty in a cityscape. While skyscrapers dwarf the antlike New Yorkers in Manhatta, the film’s high-contrast, high-angle compositions combine with Whitman’s lyricism to hymn the gorgeousness of the modern city. It’s only a short step from these imposing structures to science fiction; in fact Fritz Lang said that his Metropolis (1927) “was born from my first sight of the skyscrapers in New York”.André Sauvage’s stately Etudes sur Paris (1928) moves at a steadier pace than most city symphonies, making slow progress on a barge from the outskirts to the centre of the capital. His film reveals the changing landscapes along the riverbank altered by the path of urbanisation, creating a new map of the city. In one breathtaking sequence, the barge glides through an underground canal and the pattern made by the repeated flashes of light breaking through the roof is mesmerisingly beautiful. Joris Ivens’ short city symphony Rain (1929) uncovers abstract beauty in a shower that bursts over Amsterdam: the circles and prisms of raindrops and puddles, the city streets slick and black with water.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Rain by Joris Ivens.Other films of this type take a more explicitly critical view of the city. Alberto Cavalcanti’s Rien Que Les Heures (1926) glories in the seediness of the Paris streets. In one memorable scene, a steak dinner on a plate dissolves to reveal a window into a slaughterhouse, exposing its grisly means of production. Jean Vigo’s A Propos de Nice (1930) slides into the underbelly of a holiday resort during the last days of the summer and at the tail end of its jazz age heyday. Sunbathers grimace as they sizzle on the beach, and the film cuts to a scene of slithering crocodiles. The rich Telegraph-reading tourists are contrasted with the workers preparing the parade for their idle enjoyment. This is a film that peeks beneath the clothes of the holidaymakers and dancing girls on the promenade, looking for the hidden secrets of the city. Vigo’s intent was to turn his audience’s stomachs and prepare their minds for revolt: “by showing certain basic aspects of a city a way of life is put on trial … the last gasps of a society so lost in its escapism that it sickens you and makes you sympathetic for a revolutionary solution”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a clip of Man With a Movie Camera.Vigo’s cinematographer was the Russian Boris Kaufman, who felt that A Propos de Nice didn’t go far enough in ridiculing the leisured classes. Kaufman’s brothers, Dziga Vertov and Mikhail Kaufman, made one of the best-known but most controversial city symphonies: Man With a Movie Camera (1929). It’s one of the most avant garde films of this type, and it also refuses to name the city it portrays – or even to stick to that part of the brief at all, combining scenes from Kiev, Moscow and Odessa. The film, which declares itself “absolute kinography”, is framed by scenes in a cinema and follows the dawn-to-dusk structure of many of its fellows. Apart from that, the film unleashes a barrage of stylistic tricks: double exposures, split-screens, freeze frames and unwieldy location shifts. At one point we are shown the film’s editor Yelizaveta Svilova cutting and splicing the film. At other times a cameraman is superimposed on top of a giant camera; elsewhere the camera operates itself, tottering off to catch another scene. The Man With a Movie Camera switches the focus from the city-machine to the camera-machine, emphasising its own construction rather than its subject.The influence of city symphonies bursts through in contemporary urban films such as Chaplin’s City Lights, or Murnau’s Sunrise. Although they gradually vanished in the sound era, their legacy is found in later films too, notably Godfrey Reggio’s Qatsi trilogy. Despite flourishing for such a short time, the city symphonies are still immensely valuable to us – because they explored the artistic potential of a young medium, as much as for the pictures they give us of how we used to live.Paul Strand: Photography and Film for the 20th Century is at the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, until 3 July. Man With a Movie Camera is released on DVD and Blu-ray by Masters of Cinema on 18 April.