The brothersPaul Watkins is giving his brother Huw’s cello concerto its world premiere with the BBC National Orchestra of Wales.Paul: When I got married, I thought it would be nice if Huw wrote a little organ piece for us going down the aisle. I was 23, so he would have been 16 or 17. He came up with this piece and played it to my wife-to-be. She really didn’t like it at all. She said: “I’m not walking down the aisle to that.” It was slightly spicy, in terms of dissonance.Huw: It might have scared the congregation.Paul: I quietly asked him if he’d write something that sounded a bit more like Aaron Copland. He said: “All right, but only if you give me some money for it.”Huw: It was my first commission. I think you paid me £20.Paul: No, it was £40. Huw’s got a music degree – but I’ve still got all my hair Huw: I think it was more like £20. Still, it was very generous. It was a completely new piece. It sounded more like the Dynasty theme tune.Paul: Our parents weren’t pushy at all when we were growing up. There was a piano in the house, and we both messed around with it as soon as we could climb up on to the stool and reach the keys. We also had the advantage of my mother’s mother living with us until she died, when I was 14 or 15. She was brought up in that great Welsh church organist tradition, so she taught us how to play piano and read music.Huw: Paul was the trailblazer. He went away to the Yehudi Menuhin school when he was 13, so the amount of time when we were both at home together was quite short. We played duets together, and when I was just about good enough I could play with him on the cello. He was the cellist though – I just played the piano.Paul: That was a family bone of contention. We wanted to give Huw the chance to play an orchestral instrument, rather than just the piano, which is a bit of lonely existence. We tried him on all sorts of things, but he never really took to them. Our dad was keen for him to play the violin, just so he could play a little bit of chamber music with us and his friends at the weekend. When he went off to the sixth form at Chetham’s [school of music] in Manchester, he put his foot on the accelerator. Every time I’d come back from the Menuhin school I’d see this massive improvement in his playing. It was really exciting. I don’t think I’ve ever told him that.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Huw Watkins’s Piano QuartetHuw: That’s very nice. We should do these interviews more often! The fact that Paul could have a career in classical music, which is a fairly niche thing, meant I knew that after university it would be possible for me, too.Paul: I ducked out of university to join the BBC Symphony Orchestra. That’s the one thing our parents love to bring up: the fact that Huw does, in fact, have a university degree, whereas I dropped out after a year.Huw: Definitely mention that in the article. He does make a bucketload of money, though. For pianists, everything is a zero-hours contract.The BBC Proms 2016: few surprises, but a solid programme Paul: Huw couldn’t pass the room without going in and playing the piano. Whether he was practising in a disciplined way was debatable, but there was something about being in contact with that instrument that he couldn’t stop.Huw: You should call our parents to ask which of us was the more gifted. I don’t play a stringed instrument, and perhaps the whole jealousy thing was at the back of my mind when I was learning to play. Maybe I thought strings were too big a mountain to climb after seeing Paul play. I probably always sensed I wasn’t going to be gifted in that way.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Huw’s got an analytical mind – but at least I’ve got all my hair’ … Paul Watkins in 2007. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianPaul: I think we’re gifted in different areas. What Huw has, which I’m terribly jealous of, is the ability to listen to a piece of music in any style, reproduce it at the piano and understand the inner workings of harmony and that sort of thing. He’s got that analytical mind, which annoyingly seems to come naturally. But at least I’ve still got my hair!Huw: I started composing very young. Our mother was a music teacher, so she always had reams of manuscript paper around the house and I just filled it up. I was nine or 10.Paul: This will be the first time I’ve worked with Huw in a big symphonic capacity. If you’re lucky enough to be playing pieces by composers you know, like or respect, you feel a responsibility. Sometimes, if the composer’s a complete twat, you don’t care as much.Huw: It does happen.Paul: And the practice I’ve been doing on Huw’s piece, it’s been very intense – the most intense practice I’ve done for a while. Partly because the little bastard was late with the thing.Huw: I was a little later than I would have liked to have been. But Paul is quick to learn things, so I thought: “I don’t need to worry so much.” Without getting soppy or sentimental, it’s a really nice thing. It makes me sound a bit cheesier than I am, but the piece is dedicated to our parents. It was their golden wedding anniversary, and this whole piece is a real family thing. I’ve written lots of pieces Paul has played, so he knows my voice, my language. I know he will not fuck up.• Prom 37 is on 12 August.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Rafael and I bounce ideas off each other’ … cellist Alisa Weilerstein. Photograph: Robin Thomson/DeccaThe married couple Venezuelan conductor Rafael Payare makes his Proms debut at Prom 47, leading the Ulster Orchestra. Cellist Alisa Weilerstein joins the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra at Prom 48.Rafael: We met in Gothenburg. Alisa was there to audition for Gustavo Dudamel and I was playing with the Gothenburg Symphony as an extra. It was February 2009, and we just shook hands and said hello. Then she came to Venezuela that December, and the rest is history. We’ve been together since.Alisa: When I went to Venezuela, it happened very fast.Rafael: In Gothenburg, we didn’t have time to talk. Venezuela was completely different. Now we’ve been married for almost three years.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The hardest part is that we need to be organised’ … conductor Rafael Payare. Photograph: J Henry FairAlisa: Technology was extraordinarily helpful. We were constantly on Skype or WhatsApp. But the first couple of years we were together we saw each other maybe every month – and that was when we were lucky. It shows how strong our relationship was.Rafael: We love making music together and try to do it as much as possible. She’s a cellist and I’m a conductor, so there’s nothing for us to be competitive about. Music is not done by yourself; we all need to interact with others.Alisa: We work together fairly often, but we also do separate things. We both travel so much: if one of us is free and the other is working, then the free one will go to the city where the other is working. I love attending his concerts and I know it’s the same the other way. We’re very supportive of each other. I think it’s important for a musical couple to root for each other. I play as a soloist when we work together, so it’s very collaborative. I don’t think of it as “I’m being conducted,” which implies being bossed around or being led. We think of each other as equals, and we learn from each other, bounce ideas off each other.Rafael: I’ve seen her in concert with other people – she takes a lot more liberties when she’s playing with me!Alisa: Of course! You know me much better!Rafael: This might sound cliched, but music is a big part of our lives. Even when we’re at home, it is always in the subconscious, and sometimes in the physical. When you go home, you don’t think about how you’re going to take off your shoes – it’s just part of what you do.Alisa: It’s very natural, very integrated into our lives. We’re constantly studying, practising or listening. When we go to each other’s concerts, we give each other comments in a positive way. Rafael: We can say: “It would be great if you could play this,” or “You should hear this. You should play this because it would fit you very well.” One beautiful thing about music is that you never stop learning: you are always adding different palettes and colours to your life.Alisa: I might even say: “What do you think about the timing? Would you consider doing it in a slightly different way? Why did you interpret it this way?”Rafael: The hardest part is that we need to be organised. I am Venezuelan, and before this I was never organised. Just to see each other we have to be organised. We have a rule that we don’t go more than two weeks without seeing each other – and that rule was in place before our daughter, Ariadna, was born. We try to make it even less. But with what we do, it’s almost impossible to see each other every single day.Alisa: We’re really grateful for having the relationship we have and doing the artistic projects we really want to do. But that means we have to spend more time apart. We try to make our schedule six months at a time so we can say: “You’re free, come to me. Let’s do this together.”• Proms 47 and 48 are on 21 August.The mother and daughterBev and Lizzie Howard are members of the BBC Symphony Chorus, which performs regularly at the Proms. Lizzie studies songwriting at the London Centre of Contemporary Music.Bev: I’ve been performing since I was seven or eight. My husband also plays instruments, so we liked to assume our children would be interested, though you don’t want to force.Lizzie: I supposedly embraced it fully. When I was very small, just five, I had violin lessons, because that’s my mum’s instrument. But she couldn’t bear the sound of me butchering it, so clearly I didn’t take to that. Then, a year later, it was: “Let’s give her piano lessons. You can’t go too far wrong with piano.” And I seemed to take to it.Bev: Lizzie is her own worst critic. I’m the other way. I say: “You’re being too hard on yourself! You just need to take a step back.” She’s very motivated. If Summer Nights comes on the radio, I’m John Travolta and Mum’s Olivia Newton-JohnLizzie Howard Lizzie: Support at home wasn’t being told to practise, it was being told: “Lizzie, stop practising – you’re only making yourself upset.” I needed reassurance that I was doing a good job, rather than a push to work harder.Bev: We do tend to burst into song, me and you, which makes my other daughter moan. But she’s only joking. We automatically go into harmonies.Lizzie: If Summer Nights comes on in the car, I’m John Travolta and you’re Olivia Newton-John. We don’t even have to discuss it.Bev: You have to follow your passion. I do bookkeeping and accountancy, but they’re not my passion. Who knows? Lizzie might write the Christmas No 1 song and we can retire.Lizzie: Mum always says the Christmas No 1 will be both her and my pension fund.Bev: I know it’s not as lucrative as if you go into …Both: Computing!Bev: I suppose I’m quite envious of Lizzie following her dream. It wasn’t the right thing for me at the time, so I kept music as a hobby. Before I was in the BBC I mainly sang in local operatic societies and musical theatre.Lizzie: I’d done a couple of shows at school and drama groups, but I didn’t really think I could sing. There was an operatic society summer concert when I was 13, and they were doing a Wicked medley. And at the time, Wicked was my favourite thing, so you said: “Why don’t you come along?” Then you did the BBC before me. You’d been in for a few years, and it was only when I moved to London you said I should come and audition. I was: “No … There’s no way!”Bev: I’ve always loved the Proms, so I put my name down for the chorus. I was blown away when they said yes. It has been fantastic. Just fantastic. I’ve been in for four years. Lizzie has a really lovely soprano voice, and I knew she missed singing in a choir, so I suggested she have a go.Lizzie: I was definitely encouraged by you and my father to give it a go. It was terrifying. I was convinced they were going to say: “Go and have some singing lessons, develop your voice and come back in a couple of years.” And then when they said: “Would you like to join as a first soprano?” I said: “You mean now? Right now?” I still feel as if I might get kicked out at any moment.The best classical concerts and opera of summer 2016 Bev: It’s a treat to sing something like Belshazzar’s Feast. Other people are saying: “Oh, not another Belshazzar’s.” No! It’s my first. And I feel my voice has changed and improved in the last four years, singing with other people who are good.Lizzie: We stood next to each other at my first concert. We both love the harmonies, so when it splits a lot between first and second sopranos we like to be together, because we get to hear all of the different lines. And it’s nice: although I’m at uni and living away from home, I still get to see my mum every few weeks. There’s been more than one rehearsal, with the stress of uni, when I’ve gone over and said: “Mummy, I need a cuddle.”Bev: Need a lift home, more like!• Performing throughout the season, including the last night, 10 September.