This market town, whose fortune waxed and waned with that of the coal industry, is soon to become an international centre for Spanish art. For 250 years Auckland Castle, formerly the palace of the bishops of Durham, has been home to paintings by the Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbarán.By 2018 Zurbarán’s works will be joined by those of compatriots Dalí, El Greco and Velázquez, in an ambitious new gallery in the market square.We went to see some natural Iberian masterpieces in the town – the Spanish chestnuts that grow within the 800 acres of parkland beside the castle. Some may have been here for as long as Zurbarán’s canvases.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 17th-century painting of Jacob, by Francisco de Zurbarán Photograph: APThree of the four trees beside the stream trickling into the river Gaunless are just passing their prime. There were a few dead branches lying among their fallen crop of spiny seed husks and withered, saw-toothed leaves, but this was merely a midlife crisis; the trees could easily see out the 21st-century. The fourth tree, evidently damaged in its youth, hollow and contorted by bosses and burrs, had been reduced to a single branch – yet this still comes into leaf each spring, as it has done for the 40 years we have known it.Elsewhere in the park there is another old favourite that is stag-headed but has recently sprouted healthy new growth; Castanea sativa is a wonderfully resilient species.It would take six people linking hands to hug the bole of the largest tree here. If you stand close enough it’s hard not to succumb to their most tactile charm, which is their bark. The high ridges invite fingers to trace their anastomosing pathway that flows, like furrows in a ploughed field, from branch to root.They have all reached that stage in life where their girth increases while their height remains the same, and at this point their bark adds an extra flourish to the fluid contours. It’s as if giant hands have gripped the trunk and given it a quarter of a turn twist so that, despite its ponderous enormity, the tree acquires the youthful exuberance of the swirl of a flamenco dancer’s skirt.• This article was amended on 4 February 2015. Because of an editing error, an earlier version referred to one of the trees mentioned as a sweet chestnut and implied that that is a different species from Spanish chestnut; both are common names for Castanea sativa. 