Matilda  Illustration: Quentin BlakeAt 14, I was technically too old for this book when it came out in 1988, but I still swallowed it whole. I loved the set pieces (Miss Trunchbull hammer-throwing children by their plaits through windows) and Matilda’s thrilling combination of intelligence, coolness under pressure and flair for the dramatic. So much power concentrated in one tiny mind.It was the last full-length children’s book Dahl wrote and he seems to have given himself permission to put a little bit more heart in it than he had done in anything since The BFG – and for that alone it has mine.The Enormous CrocodileThe enormous crocodile has but one thought on its mind: to eat as many children as he can via the adoption of various, not-quite-impenetrable disguises. One for the very youngest readers, and I can say no more without creating infant spoilers, a low to which I will not stoop.Fantastic Mr FoxWhen kids are a very little bit older, they can move on to this immensely satisfying story of Boggis, Bunce, Bean, a host of fat chickens and a display of reynardian trickery as old as time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Charlie and the Chocolate FactoryBorn of Dahl’s famous and enduring love of chocolate, this is an unfairytale for our times. Its elemental simplicity – a poor but honest hero and four ambulant essences of the greatest juvenile vices who are justly rewarded and punished during their chocolate factory odyssey – made it a bestseller from the moment it was published, over 50 years ago. The BFG’s “scrumdiddlyumptious” may just have made it into the OED, but a Golden Ticket has long been a byword for any access-all-areas pass, while Willy Wonka is shorthand for any mercurial, mesmeric figure or creator of some barely believable breakthrough.Charlie is many children’s first introduction to Dahl. He takes you by the hand and leads you – as firmly as Willy Wonka does Charlie – into an edifice of delights.What do Roald Dahl and his stories mean to you? Danny, the Champion of the WorldOften overlooked, perhaps because it is the book set most firmly in the real world with less explosively Dahlesque moments. The plot to poach the local landowner’s pheasants is pleasingly intricate and painstakingly worked out, but without magic potions, bottom burps or anyone being sent for slicing in the fudge room. Still, this is a lovely book about the relationship between a boy and his father – and about how really, really stupid pheasants are.James and the Giant PeachDahl’s first book for children. He had already made a name as a writer of macabre short stories for adults but his astute agent Sheila St Lawrence felt there was something shifting around in there for children and kept encouraging him to find it. She was right. James’s parents are eaten by an escaped rhinoceros (“in full daylight, mind you, and on a crowded street”) on the second page and we’re away.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Another edifice of delights … Dahl outside the shed where he wrote. Photograph: Ian Cook/Time Life Pictures/Getty ImagesThe WitchesA favourite with Dahl’s critics because it offers the most fertile ground in which to plant the charges of misogyny that periodically came his way. (We’ll argue about their legitimacy some non-centenary celebrating day. For what it’s worth, I think of him as an alpha-male misanthrope and love him for it.) This is a favourite with children because it’s the perfect story of right in the form of a hero (turned into a mouse by bald, blue-spittled witches) and his beloved grandmother winning out over might. It also contains the quintessential Dahl happy ending. The hero realises that as a mouse he has a much shorter lifespan than he would as a boy and thus his grandmother and he are likely to die together. An altogether bracing read.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The BFGIt’s fast, funny and furiously charming. If Willy Wonka was Dahl’s younger, harder secret self, the BFG is his older, more avuncular avatar. He is a maker of dreams who spirits the heroine Sophie (named after his granddaughter - the book is dedicated to her, too) away when she spies him at his nightly work and together they save the world’s children from “human bean”-eating giants.When Quentin Blake came to illustrate the book, he couldn’t work out what the BFG should wear on his feet. He consulted Dahl. Through the post a few days later came one of Dahl’s own huge, battered Norwegian leather sandals. And those are what the BFG wears.The TwitsLike all writers, Dahl had an ideas notebook. One of the scribbled lines in it ran: “Beer stealing. An old boy dropped his glass eye into the tankard. He then saw it looking up at him.”From such tiny acorns do fabulously diseased oak trees grow. This time, it gave us the glorious grotesquerie that is The Twits. I remember vividly the story being read to us in primary school. The spaghetti worms! The Hugtight glue on the Big Dead Tree! And – consequently – bird pie every week and one quartet of boys slipping out of their arbour-adhering trousers and running away “with their naked bottoms winking at the sun”! The penny-sized pieces of wood being added to Mrs Twit’s walking stick to make her think she’d got the shrinks! You think I had to look any of this up to refresh my memory? You underestimate the power of Dahl. The glass eye, of course, is Mrs Twit’s and turns up at the bottom of her unbeloved husband’s beer mug. Nice.It’s a pure shot of happiness/disgust for younger readers who don’t yet feel the need for a little light and shade in their stories - and indeed for older readers who occasionally feel life and literature is altogether too full of grey areas and would like to drill back down to basics.The Wonderful Story of Henry SugarA collection of short stories for what would now be called a YA audience, and a fine bridge between Dahl’s children’s books and his adult work. The Swan still hurts my heart, The Mildenhall Treasure still has me writhing in exquisite agony, and The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar itself still has me sighing in complete satisfaction.It also contains Dahl’s first ever published story, about crashlanding in Libya during the war, and an essay – Lucky Break - about how he came to write it. CS Forester (Dahl was moving in quite glamorous circles during and after the war) had been commissioned to write a story for the Saturday Evening Post about Dahl’s experience and Dahl offered to send him some notes, which turned out to be publishable in their own right. A lucky break for us all.Buy Lucy Mangan’s book Inside Charlie’s Chocolate Factory at the Guardian Bookshop.