The French-Canadian theatre-maker Robert Lepage, 58, writes, directs and designs his shows – often performing in them as well. In 1994 he founded Ex Machina, a multidisciplinary production company. His work combines seductive storytelling with visual transformation. The Seven Streams of the River Ota (1994) wove Hiroshima, the Holocaust and the Aids crisis into a treatise on death. The Far Side of the Moon (2000) condensed the space race into a tale of two brothers. Last year Lepage brought his solo autobiographical show, 887, to the Edinburgh festival. Next he is staging a new version of his 1991 show, Needles and Opium, at the Barbican.Needles and Opium takes inspiration from the life of Jean Cocteau. But for the new version you’ve also introduced Miles Davis…When we first started to work on the show in Quebec City, it was only a short time after Miles Davis’s death. He had just released an autobiography about that specific period in the show, the jazz festival in Paris in early 1949, which he attended, just as Cocteau was visiting New York for the first time. So it’s an interesting take on how Americans and Europeans viewed each other at a pivotal time. The second world war had just finished and there was this new world order and culture. Cocteau’s text is based on a letter he wrote on the 14-hour flight back to Paris called A Letter to Americans, which has a lot of admiration and love, but also a few warnings and a vision of what America might become if they didn’t change. And to remake Needles and Opium after 9/11 was very interesting.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for Needles and OpiumOriginally you played yourself in the piece…Yes, the starting point was my own personal love loss. I was 30 and going through this heartbreak. I actually got to perform it in London in the Cottesloe. But then we decided four years ago to remount it with another actor [Marc Labrèche]. I’ve changed, and the world has changed. The main character is now fiftysomething and that’s a very different take on social views and the psychology of love and relationships. Between the two versions there has been 27 years of life and experience. I think there was a despair at that time. The piece is about love addiction, basically, which I think is something I’ve sorted out in my own personal life. Audiences are more acrobatic in the way they connect the dots compared to our generation Addiction is a big theme, isn’t it?Yes, Cocteau was addicted to opium, and at one time Davis was addicted to heroin. For Cocteau, it was to do with the death of his young lover, Raymond Radiguet, a brilliant poet. And in the case of Davis, he’d been on this amazing two-week adventure with the French singer Juliette Gréco, and he suddenly felt freedom. Then he returns to America and is treated like a black man, and it confirms the old perception of what social classes should be according to race. He is then drawn into the world of heroin. I’ve always been interested in addiction and drugs - not that I’ve indulged a lot - and what they do to you and what they mean psychologically. And these two addictions are intimately connected to the idea of the love loss.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marc Labrèche in Needles and Opium. Photograph: Nicola-Frank VachonYou’ve said that in an era of Netflix, theatre has to offer a primal live experience…It has to be an event, that’s for sure. Needles and Opium remains a very theatrical show because of the way the narrative is constructed. There are some liturgical moments that are more classical – such as speaking on the phone to an ex-lover – but a lot is addressed to the audience, so it’s very engaging. We should never overestimate an audience’s culture but we should never underestimate their intelligence. They’re used to being told stories in crazy ways, and they’re more acrobatic in the way they connect the dots compared to our generation, when everything was pretty much in a naturalistic time-frame and gravity held everything on the floor. It’s more demanding for the artist but more liberating because you can trust the audience that if you take a risk or put yourself in danger with an idea, even if they don’t get it, they’ll survive.When you directed Peter Gabriel’s Secret World tour, he said: “Robert is a real visionary, creating theatre for people who don’t like theatre.” Does that resonate?Absolutely. But it’s also a question of access and availability. Theatre’s still expensive, compared to downloading on Netflix; that has to be addressed. It doesn’t mean it has to be over-subsidised by the state but it’s something we’re trying to figure out. I’m going to have my own theatre; we’re building the Diamond in Quebec City. And I’m really trying to figure out if there’s a way of offering it for the same price as a movie.• Needles and Opium is at the Barbican, London EC2, 7-16 July