In the early 1960s, Andrew Lloyd Webber, while a pupil at Westminster School, came across an unframed canvas in a shop on the Fulham Road and instantly fell in love with it. The painting, or at least what he could see of it through a thick film of dirt, showed a slumbrous young woman, swathed in diaphanous hot orange, sprawled heavily across a sofa, the sky molten behind her. The owner of the shop – it would be pushing it to call it a gallery – told his young customer that the painting was by a former president of the Royal Academy, Lord Leighton. Schoolboy Lloyd Webber didn’t have the £50 necessary to buy the grubby canvas and his grandmother, when beseeched to cough up the cash, growled: “I will not have Victorian junk in my flat.” Instead, Flaming June went to the Museo de Arte de Ponce in Puerto Rico, from where it was recently granted a rare exeat. In recent weeks it has been making a guest appearance at Leighton House, the grand studio-mansion in Holland Park where Frederic Leighton lived and worked for the last three decades of his life. The painting, long primped back to luminous loveliness, is now worth … well, no one will say exactly, probably because no one really knows, but it must be multiples of millions.Like any endlessly repeated story, the discovery of Flaming June after 60 years in hiding has acquired the patina of a fairytale, with the painting cast as a princess disguised in dirty rags and Lloyd Webber as the heroic prince who realises her true worth. But he wasn’t the only young knight in that psychedelic decade who embarked on a quest to rescue the despised art of the previous century. Rob Dickins, subsequently chairman of Warner Music UK, was another creative mogul in the making who took to haunting country house sales and obscure provincial auctions in the hope of finding something wonderful buried among the dismal junk. The museum curator turned newspaper critic Richard Dorment was another, as was Richard Ormond, soon to become 19th-century curator at the National Portrait Gallery.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Walter Crane’s Diana (1881). Photograph: Private collectionAlong with women, such as the dealer Charlotte Frank and the writer Lavinia Handley-Read, this small band of enthusiasts kept faith with an art that delighted them, even while it prompted snorts of derision from everyone else, including Lloyd Webber’s granny. To carry on collecting works such as The Village Wedding by Luke Fildes, or Ramsgate Sands by William Powell Frith at a time when Bridget Riley and Henry Moore were the reigning deities was to risk seeming perversely in love with an art that was slackly anecdotal, stubbornly figurative, kitsch and camp. Yet while the rest of the world remained in thrall to modernism’s bracing investigations into “significant form”, these collectors of Victorian works preferred to privilege what Godfrey Pilkington of the Piccadilly Gallery described as “something not totally unconnected with the old-fashioned concept of beauty”.From 22 November you will be able to see some of the fruits of this heroic attachment to beauty at the Watts Gallery, near Guildford. Like Leighton House, the gallery is a public museum lodged alongside a Victorian artist’s studio house, that of symbolist painter GF Watts. Untold Stories will showcase work drawn from the private collections of trustees and benefactors of the gallery who are openly embracing their passion for Victorian art. Among the exhibits are pieces that, even now, might not be given pride of place in a national collection. So while you won’t discover another Flaming June hiding here, you will find similarly classicising portraits from a slightly later period by Alan Beeton and Edmund Dulac. Walter Crane is also here, as is the sculptor Alfred Gilbert and the late pre‑Raphaelite William Waterhouse. There is also a preparatory sketch for the mosaics that Edward Burne-Jones made for the walls of the American Church in Rome, the very images that first turned the 13-year-old Lloyd Webber on to Victorian art during a school trip to the Eternal City.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A detail from Thomas Cooper Gotch’s It Is an Ancient Mariner (1925). Photograph: Private CollectionEach exhibit in Untold Stories is flanked by a card on which the owner describes their relationship with the object that they have lent, that moment of piercing desire when they knew they simply had to have it. Even so, there will hardly be space for Dickins to explain what he calls the “visceral” impact that Thomas Cooper Gotch’s It Is an Ancient Mariner had the first time he laid eyes on it. Dickins had initially gone into Sotheby’s to view a different picture, and found himself brought up short by the staring eyes and pointing finger of Gotch’s raddled seaman: “I was mesmerised, I couldn’t look away.” Crucially, though, it was the personal associations triggered by the painting that convinced Dickins that he had to acquire it for his own walls so that he could experience its accusatory power every day. As an Essex grammar schoolboy, in the 1960s, he was required to learn Coleridge’s Rime of the Ancient Mariner by heart. “Seeing the picture, I was transported back 50 years, and the stanza ‘wherefore stopp’st thou me?’ seemed to fly from the frame straight towards me.”If Dickins were the kind of collector who was motivated by money he might well have passed on Gotch’s Ancient Mariner. For one thing, the painting is late, from 1925, towards the end of Gotch’s life. It is also quite unlike anything else the Newlyn-based artist produced. Gotch was celebrated for his palette of golds and russets (no one did autumn quite like him), while the Ancient Mariner is all salt-lashed blues and greys. And in contrast to Gotch’s usual nubile female figures, the mariner is as gnarly as an old tree.Other works in Untold Stories share this outlier status, this refusal to fall in with the established narrative of a particular artist’s signature style. William Holman Hunt, generally land-locked, is represented here by a piece of maritime art, while John Singer Sargent’s The Hotel Room unusually contains no human figures. Frederick Sandys, a Rossetti acolyte who mostly did raven-haired temptresses, makes an unexpected contribution with a painting of two fair-haired children at evensong.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Singer Sargent’s The Hotel Room, (1904-06). Photograph: Private collectionIt was, of course, the relative cheapness of Victorian art that made it available to amateur collectors in the first place. To have developed a passion for, say, post-impressionism in the 1960s would have been to let yourself in for a lifetime of disappointment, since all the best pieces had long since flown to Park Lane apartments for millions. Art from an earlier period, by contrast, was still mouldering away in attics, junk shops and museum storerooms. And as it began to emerge slowly into the sunlight it was often to be encountered not in prestigious metropolitan salerooms but popping up in more vernacular spaces: leaning against a filing cabinet in Portobello Road, or wedged between a rocking horse and a sofa at a country house auction. “You could find the most wonderful things as long as you kept your eyes open,” remembers Dorment, who also pays tribute to specialist dealers such as Frank who “didn’t simply acquire pieces to satisfy a growing demand for Victorian art, but actively educated the market by showing us things we might otherwise not have considered.”Each benefactor who has lent work to Untold Stories has a different tale to tell about how they first fell in love with the art of the 19th century. For Dickins, bounding up the music industry in the late 60s, it was the LP sleeves and Carnaby Street fashions that piqued his interest. This was the age of Peter Blake’s artwork for Sgt Pepper’s and the Granny Takes a Trip boutique in Kings Road (and many of these young people’s grannies were, of course, Victorians), when young men re-purposed old military uniforms and their girlfriends wore Victorian nighties as daywear. “It made me curious about the origins of the images that I saw all around me,” remembers Dickins. ‘It made me want to follow them to their source.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The album cover of Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band (1967). Photograph: PAFor Dorment the nudge towards the 19th century was more cerebral. As a graduate student in Francophile America in the 1960s, he was warned that choosing a Victorian British subject for his PhD would be to stall his career before it had properly started. Nonetheless Dorment ploughed ahead with a thesis on the Burne-Jones murals in Rome, a preparatory sketch of which he has loaned to the exhibition. But it was only when he relocated to London to freelance that Dorment felt he had found his tribe. The Victorian Society, founded in 1958, was then at the height of its campaigning energy to preserve the material fabric of Britain’s past from the developer’s maw. It was no longer eccentric to spend your Saturdays with a well-thumbed Pevsner searching out railwaymen’s cottages and inner-city churches built in the gothic revival style.Victorian painting took longer to swim back into full view, but, by 1984, when the Tate mounted its pre-Raphaelite exhibition, the desire to look again, and look properly, was under way. Certainly if you consider the art on show in Untold Stories you will see that it is very far from being a series of sentimental narratives in which urchins and prostitutes cower in corners while romantic damsels wait to be rescued by a hunky St George. As well as a huge variety of subject matter, you will find painting that thoughtfully considers the conditions of its own making. Sargent’s The Hotel Room, for instance, is really a tone poem in white, an inquiry into the nature of colour and its absence. Ophelia by Thomas Diksee (not to be confused with his more famous son Sir Francis) is such a sublime reimagining of quattrocento Venetian art that is no wonder Dickins speaks of spending his evenings marvelling at the painting’s technical skill, the way it creates heart-stopping beauty out of hog’s hair and pigment. Or what about Walter Crane’s Diana of 1881, a beautiful illustrative piece of work that does not seek to teach a moral lesson or tell a story or do anything of the ploddingly literal things that Victorian painting is still, quite unfairly, assumed to do.Untold Stories: British Art from Private Collections is at Watts Gallery, Compton, Surrey, from 22 November. wattsgallery.org.uk.