   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Next week, Al Gore will launch the next stage of his three decade-long campaign to warn the world about the dangers of climate change.The Climate Reality Project aims to "bringing the facts about the climate crisis into the mainstream and engaging the public in conversation about how to solve it". The former US vice president and Nobel peace laureate says his campaign has more than five million supporters worldwide and that it will centre around "24 hours of reality" commencing on 14 September.24 Presenters. 24 Time Zones. 13 Languages. 1 Message. 24 Hours of Reality is a worldwide event to broadcast the reality of the climate crisis. It will consist of a new multimedia presentation created by Al Gore and delivered once per hour for 24 hours, representing every time zone around the globe. Each hour people living with the reality of climate change will connect the dots between recent extreme weather events — including floods, droughts and storms — and the manmade pollution that is changing our climate. We will offer a round-the-clock, round-the-globe snapshot of the climate crisis in real time. The deniers may have millions of dollars to spend, but we have a powerful advantage. We have reality.As you might expect, the campaign aims to fully exploit the power of social networking to maximise the potency and reach of its core message. Blogs, Twitter and Facebook are all being utilised.But one online security writer has spotted something about the campaign's use of social networking that is making him "uncomfortable". Graham Cluley of NakedSecurity is concerned that Climate Reality is asking supporters to "donate" their Twitter and Facebook accounts for 24 hours:All the Climate Reality Project needs you to do is authorise its application so it can post Facebook status messages and Tweets in your name. You'll still be able to use the social networks as normal - it's just that a few times an hour you will find messages from the Climate Reality Project issued using your name, interspersed amongst your regular online activity.Is it spam? I freely admit that I'm undecided…What it sounds like is just another example of an organisation trying to muscle their way into social media success - ironically, the diametric opposite of what actually works. Something that might actually be considered rude in whatever the Web 2.0 version of netiquette is.Perhaps the Climate Reality Project would do better to just be interesting. That way, people would reshare their content or build upon it in an authentic way which would most likely be more appreciated by the supporters' online followers.After all, isn't an argument put more convincingly if people can see that some effort and passion has been put into forming the case, rather than someone lazing about on their sofa and getting an app to tweet it out for them?But more than that. Isn't this bad security practice? Should people be encouraged to hand control of their Facebook or Twitter account to a third party for a day? Isn't it a bit like lending somebody your credit card for 48 hours? Haven't we seen enough abusive third-party apps on Facebook and Twitter without users being encouraged to install more?I have to say that I share Cluley's concerns. As I've written before – most notably about Foursquare – internet security is, at best, a fragile beast and the idea of asking people to donate their online accounts is not, in my view, a terribly sensible precedent to being setting.But I feel Cluley's point about authenticity is even more valid. I follow people on Twitter to hear their real voice, not that of a spambot, no matter how good the intentions of the sender.Here's the small print Climate Reality is offering to those curious about donating their accounts:Starting a day before the event (Sept 13 Central Time) you grant us permission to post on your behalf. We will only post content relevant to 24 Hours of Reality and climate change, and we won't post more than a few times an hour. You'll still be able to tweet and use Facebook normally, and you can revoke our access anytime through your Facebook and Twitter settings. After September 15 (CT) we will stop posting any content on your Facebook or Twitter feed and you can revoke our access.Let us know what you think. Would you be happy to sign over your Twitter or Facebook account to this, or any other, campaign for 24 hours?