Ninety-five Mississippi writers, including Donna Tartt and John Grisham, have condemned the state’s new anti-LGBT law, describing it as “the rhetoric of hate, thinly veiled”.Passed last week, House Bill 1523 allows businesses to refuse service to same-sex couples, if their relationship goes against the business owner’s “sincerely held religious beliefs or moral convictions”. It also says that marriage “is or should be recognised as the union of one man and one woman”, and that “male (man) or female (woman) refer to an individual’s immutable biological sex as objectively determined by anatomy and genetics at time of birth”.In a letter published in the Jackson Free Press, the 95 writers, who also include The Help author Kathryn Stockett and Pulitzer winner Natasha Trethewey, Mississippi’s poet laureate, called for the repeal of governor Phil Bryant’s bill.“Mississippi authors have written through pain, and they have written out of disappointment, but they have also written from wonder, and pride, and a fierce desire to see the politics of this state live up to its citizens. It is deeply disturbing to so many of us to see the rhetoric of hate, thinly veiled, once more poison our political discourse,” they write, in a letter put together by the Jackson novelist Katy Simpson Smith. I’ve never been prouder to be a writer from MississippiKaty Simpson Smith, author “But Governor Phil Bryant and the Mississippi legislators who voted for this bill are not the sole voices of our state. There have always been people here battling injustice. That’s the version of Mississippi we believe in, and that’s the Mississippi we won’t stop fighting for.”The authors pointed to the “thousand histories” of Mississippi, which they said “boiled down to two strains”: the state’s “reactionary side, which has nourished intolerance and degradation and brutality” and its “humane side”.“This core kindness, the embracing of wildness and weirdness, is what has nurtured the great literature that has come from our state,” they said. “What literature teaches us is empathy. It reminds us to reach out a hand to our neighbours – even if they look different from us, love different from us – and say, ‘Why, I recognise you; you’re a human, just like me, sprung from the same messy place, bound on the same hard road.’”The 95 writers ended by stating their opposition “to any violation of civil rights, including discrimination against LGBTQ citizens”.Author Katy Simpson Smith, who compiled the letter, said it was “born after a week of deep frustration at my own impotence.” “Various organizations in Mississippi were making statements, and I wanted to somehow add my voice,” she said. “It took me a while to recognize that I am part of an organization of sorts: the entire literary community.“It was a thrill to get emails from people I didn’t know who were equally impassioned, and then to glance at my inbox and see names like John Grisham and Donna Tartt,” she said. “Writers continue to reach out to me, wanting to add their signatures... I’ve never been prouder to be a writer from Mississippi.”Jeff Kinney and Patrick Ness among 269 authors protesting North Carolina anti-LGBT law In a statement posted to his Instagram account on Sunday, musician Bryan Adams cancelled his Thursday performance in Biloxi, Mississippi, in protest over the new law. Adams said he could not “in good conscience” perform in a state where “certain people are being denied their civil rights due to their sexual orientation”.Last week, almost 300 writers spoke out against new legislation in North Carolina requiring transgender people to use public toilets based on their gender at birth. Those writers, who included Patrick Ness and John Green, called for “the immediate repeal of this hateful piece of legislation”.“[We] are disappointed and angered by the reprehensible legislation that Governor McCrory signed into law, eliminating anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people,” they said in an open letter. “This law undermines our core values of mutual respect and dignity for all.”