John Nevil Maskelyne was a 19th-century magician. He founded the Egyptian Hall in Piccadilly where, between 1873 and 1904, there were twice-daily magic shows. He was also the inventor of the penny lock widely used in public toilets right into the 1960s, which gave rise to the phrase “spend a penny”. He began his career as a showman by unmasking the trickery of the Davenport Brothers, who toured America and Europe claiming to raise spirits and talk to the dead, and used his own mechanical skills to bamboozle audiences further.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Nevil Maskelyne in action, part of the exhibition Victorian Entertainments: There Will Be Fun. Photograph: British Library BoardMaskelyne was but one of the many showmen and women who delighted Victorian audiences and some of them are celebrated in a delightful little free foyer exhibition, There Will be Fun, co-curated by Christopher Green, at the British Library in London. It continues into the spring and on occasional weekends includes live entertainments. The next is on 7 January. The exhibition celebrates the antics of “Lord” George Sanger, who founded “the greatest circus, hippodrome and menagerie in the world”. One of his most successful presentations was Toby the learned pig, which could apparently both read and spell. There is Miss Annie de Montford, born Annie Riley, a mill worker turned mesmerist, who claimed her mind “ruled the world” even after a New England newspaper called her act “a splendid temple of humbug”. There is also a section dedicated to the great clown and pantomime dame Dan Leno, who brought joy to so many.There seems to be a renewed interest in this kind of variety entertainment. The Star at Liverpool Playhouse celebrates the lost age of the music hall and, in Salisbury, A Little of What You Fancy takes in the best and worst of Victorian entertainment. Magic acts have made a comeback on the West End stage in the show Impossible, Derren Brown, and the cabaret scene is thriving.Top of the bill remains La Soirée, which this year has taken up residence in London’s Leicester Square, where it remains into the new year with a show that features new acts and old, including one last chance to see Ursula Martinez perform her rightly celebrated disappearing-hanky act. If you think that Victorian entertainment was full of oddities, you haven’t seen the bubble display of Denis Lock, one half of the English Gents – his balancing act takes on an extra frisson after the Brexit vote – or witnessed the double-jointed Captain Frodo force his entire body through the head of a tennis racket. I have seen Captain Frodo. Several times. Yet his act remains mesmerising, in its own way a comment on the absurdity of all outlandish human endeavour, whether it’s climbing Everest, reaching the South Pole or pushing your limbs into impossible positions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Star at Liverpool Playhouse. Photograph: Robert DayLa Soirée continues to be a class act, largely because it keeps its tongue firmly in its cheek and never takes itself too seriously. It send up its own attempts at sexiness and in the process becomes more alluring, like a beautiful person unaware of their own charms. It is knowing and innocent at the same time, artful and artless.In all the years that I’ve seen Martinez perform her hanky act, I’ve never seen her in anything but total control of the audience, even in these misogynistic times when women are daily subjected to comments online and in the street about how they look and behave. At 50, she’s decided to retire the routine, but I reckon she could carry on doing it for another 20 years at least. In any event she will continue to do her Spanish song turn, which also takes on an extra comic edge after the Brexit vote.If you are looking for a show to lift and dispel the gloom of 2016, La Soirée is it. The heyday of American burlesque coincided with the Great Depression, suggesting that when times get hard our desire for frivolous, freaky entertainment is all the greater. La Soirée is perfect escapism, but the remarkable skill of the performers and the subversion that underpins it is a clever reminder that, however much you try to chase the darkness away, it always lurks somewhere beneath the glitter. That’s not just entertainment, but a real art. 