Anyone looking to refamiliarise themselves with the BBC’s beloved 1995 TV mini-series Pride and Prejudice will discover there are hundreds of fan videos to be navigated online – a sea of fade-out montages, quotes and acoustic guitar soundtracks honouring Lizzie and Darcy – before finding an actual clip. This subgenre in its own right is testament to the appeal of Jennifer Ehle as the enduring defining Austen heroine.Ehle, 46, has issued instructions to meet her in Central Park’s Chess and Checkers House, “under the pergola”, which itself seems to be straight out of a period drama. “People do seem to be still very affected by it,” she says when I venture that countless women – including, of course, Bridget Jones – must have based their idea of romance around the role. “They’re not over it, which is really lovely.” Just days ago, she says, she was in the security queue at the airport, “and the woman behind me told me how much she loved it and how much it’s meant to her”.Little Men review – five-star foray into money worries Ehle won a Bafta for the part, after her breakthrough role in 1992’s The Camomile Lawn, and seemed destined for superstardom. However, rather than opt for a blockbuster, she headed for the Royal Shakespeare Company. “It’s had huge effects on my career, but not the kind people expected,” she says of Pride and Prejudice. “Its presence has enabled me to come and go in a way I wouldn’t be able to otherwise.” She explains: “I am extremely ambitious, but my ambition is in a slightly different vein than what people assume an actor’s to be. It’s just that I want my life outside my work to be even more important than my work. I wanted to have children and tend to them.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greg Kinnear and Jennifer Ehle in Little Men.Her children (her daughter is seven and her son 13) are beginning to watch her mother become other people. Ehle has taken both of them to see her latest film, Little Men, directed by Ira Sachs. Her character, Kathy Jardine, is a psychiatrist and her family’s breadwinner, the mother of an artistically inclined 12-year-old boy and the wife of a struggling-actor husband. When he inherits his father’s South Brooklyn home, the family move in to save money on rent. They have a tenant, a shopkeeper on the ground floor, who is a Chilean single mother of another 12-year-old boy. When the Jardines are forced to raise the rent on the shop, the relationship between the adults grows strained as the boys’ bond deepens. Eventually it falls on Kathy’s shoulders to make some difficult decisions.“Kathy seems like she had a lot of stress fractures that could fall apart at any moment,” says Ehle. “But she’s managing really well to hold it together. It’s funny that she’s trained in conflict resolution, because that is what she constantly seems to be trying to do. You can’t ever make everything all right, which is kind of what the film is saying. All we can do is our best. But life is unavoidably messy.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Ehle in Pride And Prejudice, 1995. Photograph: Rex/Moviestore CollectionLittle Men taps into the moment in adolescence when we realise our parents are people, too. The boys begin a silent protest against their feuding elders, resolved only when the younger generation is able to process the fact that some situations are not easily solvable. “I absolutely remember the realisation that my parents were just people who’d had a child,” says Ehle. “They hadn’t existed as parental guides their whole lives. They were just figuring it out as they were going along.”Little Men is a soft-spoken film that yields its wisdom gently, delivering more on repeat viewings. So it is for its star, too. “I see different facets from different parts of the story come to the fore each time. And I go a little deeper each time. I find that it gets me emotionally now as soon as it’s over, there’s no more story to distract you and you’re left with your feelings. It’s unfixable, just like the situation in the story. That’s one of the tests, isn’t it, of a wonderful film, or a wonderful something that somebody has created? You keep returning to it and seeing different things. It’s like [Sachs is] eavesdropping on these people rather than having them come and explain the story to you. You have to get quiet.”Ehle was born in 1969, the only child of American writer John Ehle and British stage actor Rosemary Harris. “I was always aware we were different,” she says, “that our life was more eccentric. It would have been nice to fit in. We didn’t belong to the country clubs, because at that time – I don’t know if it’s still true – in the town where I was raised [in the US], if you were black or Jewish you could not join. So of course we did not. I was proud of that.”She went into acting, she says, as she saw how much fun her mother had (and still has: Harris, 89, continues to appear on Broadway). “I think kids love to be around adults who are toiling happily. To get a chance to see people lovingly tend to their work, and with joy, is such a great thing. She has a passion for it and is always full of joy and fun. Her dressing room was always a place of effervescence.”With her own children growing older, Ehle says, her work looms larger in her life. She has been in work steadily, and in excellent, if not always huge, roles – an accomplished scientist in Contagion, a formidable CIA agent in Zero Dark Thirty. This summer, she played the Norwegian diplomat Mona Juul in Oslo, in an off-Broadway show in which she was described by the New York Times as “irresistible”.Little Men director Ira Sachs: 'I have a Marxist perspective' “It was the first time that I was beginning to let the importance of my work raise up in my mind. I think that, as a family, we are ready for that. It’s important for my kids to see that joy that I saw in my mother,” she says.Has sharing a profession ever complicated her relationship with her mother? “I think we’ve been lucky,” Ehle says. “If it seems complicated, I don’t think we’re aware of it. I’m competitive with myself, but not with other people, and I don’t know whether that’s an only-child thing or whether, early on, I sensed I was going to be in the same profession as my mother. Or maybe it’s that she’s not very competitive either.”In 2000, both mother and daughter were nominated for the same Tony award; Ehle for her Broadway debut as Annie in Tom Stoppard’s The Real Thing; Harris for her role as May Davenport in Nöel Coward’s Waiting in the Wings. It went to Ehle, and her mother wept. “Some British journalist had written that when I won and she cried, she wept because she hadn’t won! You’re just like: ‘Really, my God, what was your relationship with your mother like?’” she says.Ehle is now at an age when roles for women tend to become less common and less interesting. “The opposite seems to have happened for me,” she says. “I sort of hoped that it would. I used to hope that my career would start thriving in middle age, because I would like to do it from then for the rest of my life. We will see. But at the moment it’s thriving. I’m delighted. I feel much more comfortable. I feel this is a better time.” Then she adds: “But I still hope the fame thing doesn’t happen to me.”Is that a prospect that terrifies her? “It would be awkward,” she says, ever so English in this American setting. “It would be like, you know, growing a third limb. I don’t know what the advantage to it would be.”• Little Men is released in Britain on Friday. 