Colin Firth, master of quiet repression on screen, is ready to wear a mankini.“If someone wants me to wear one in a film, I will,” joked the actor at the Berlin film festival press conference for his new film, Genius. “I’m ready to burst out of a cake.”Respoding to a question about his tendency to play well-dressed, withdrawn characters, Firth said we live in an era of “rampant exhibitionism” and that his Genius character, Maxwell Perkins – the unassuming editor who was credited with honing the work of Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Hemingway and F Scott Fitzgerald into classic literature – stood in relief to that. The star of the biopic, which premieres at the Berlin film festival, said social media has shepherded us into “an era when we’re all clamouring to be visible”.“Perhaps it was ever thus,” said Firth, speaking at the film’s press conference. “But we now have to tools to do it.” He joked that his profession qualified him to diagnose the self-regarding nature of our modern age: “I’m an actor, so I know what I’m talking about.” Genius is the first film by celebrated theatre director Michael Grandage. Alongside Firth, it stars Jude Law as Thomas Wolfe, the prolific author of Look Homeward, Angel and Of Time and The River, Guy Pearce as Fitzgerald and Laura Linney as Perkins’ wife, Louise. The film charts Perkins and Wolfe’s friendship, which was formed during constant arguments over how to cut Wolfe’s gargantuan manuscripts into novels.Based on the book, Maxwell Perkins: Editor of Genius by A Scott Berg, the script was written by John Logan, screenwriter of the last two Bond films.“Wolfe is on the verge of being forgotten,” said Logan. “So if we remind a few people that there is a great writer to be rediscovered, we’ve done our job well.”Law, who plays Wolfe as exuberant in life as he wrote on the page, said that he and Firth had been eager to capture “the speed of thought” that Perkins and Wolfe possessed. “They were fighting to find honesty at all costs,” he said.Wolfe, who died of miliary tuberculosis at the age of 37, was a North Carolina native who drew heavily on his own life to write his poetic prose. When asked if he’d had to suffer to learn the North Carolina accent, Law said: “I didn’t have to suffer greatly.” “We did,” joked Firth. Asked if he’d learned anything new about the American writers of the 1920s, Firth said making Genius had made him reassess F Scott Fitzgerald’s legacy. “I misjudged Fitzgerald as a young man,” he said. “I thought that – like many of his contemporaries – he was just writing about the party scene: about wealth and fame. In fact, he was writing about something more ambitious – about the shallowness of it. So I fell in love with Fitzgerald again. It helped that I was partly in love with Guy Pearce.”