Family is by far the most important influence on a child’s life. Yet family policy is a relatively modern invention: 30 years ago, the state played a very limited role beyond the financial in directly supporting families. There have been many positive developments since then, but family policy continues to place too little emphasis on fatherhood.Neglectful and abusive fathers aside, research shows that better behavioural, emotional and academic outcomes for children are linked to greater quality and quantity of contact with their fathers. That is reinforced by reports from charities working with children from low-income backgrounds, who argue that boys in particular can suffer from the lack of a father figure in their lives.Many children raised by a single parent enjoy happy, rich childhoods. But, given the stresses and strains involved with parenting, it should be common sense that there might be advantages in having two responsible, loving parents bringing up a child, even if they themselves are living separate lives. Having two parents actively involved in their lives should be the aim for all children. A small but significant minority of children do not have a relationship with their father. Just under one in five fathers have dependent children they don’t live with. They are more likely to be young, out of work, poorly educated and black. Six in 10 of these fathers have contact with their children at least once a week, but 13% have no contact at all.As a society, we have never adequately recognised paternal responsibility. Non-resident fathers were not obliged to contribute financially until as late as 1991. Until 2003, a father who was unmarried at the time of their child’s birth needed the consent of the mother to get legal parental responsibility without going to court. Policymakers have been too quick to buy into the lazy stereotype of deadbeat dads, focusing on single mothers to the exclusion of non-resident fathers.Policy lags behind shifting social attitudes: nearly half of working fathers say they would like to downshift to a less stressful job in order to achieve a better work-life balance. Yet from the very first antenatal appointment to parenting orders for troubled teenagers, the state often fails to recognise sufficiently the importance of fatherhood. Fathers are only legally entitled to two weeks of paternity leave, paid at a rate so low many struggle to take it. This discrimination is most acutely felt by young fathers from poor backgrounds; often seen as a risk by professionals, the system can end up pushing them away from their children. The benefits system caters poorly for separated parents sharing caring responsibilities.This reflects an overly polarised political debate about families. The right, driven by an unhealthy obsession with marriage as an institution, rather than the stable relationships that really matter for child outcomes, has historically taken an overly alarmist, morally superior tone. David Cameron’s family policy had a homeopathic flavour: ineffective marriage tax allowances; ill-conceived and poorly targeted flops such as vouchers for parenting classes and relationship support; and a £1bn Troubled Families programme, deemed a complete failure. All this was rolled out by a government that loaded the burden of austerity on to low-income families with children.In contrast, the left, with the notable exception of David Lammy, has too often shunned talking about fatherhood and relationship stability out of a fear of stigmatising single mothers. In doing so, it has ceded the ground to the right, which has done exactly that. Instead, Labour governments have emphasised the more comfortable territory of women’s rights rather than parents’ rights and done too little to push state services to become more father-friendly. This has not just been to the detriment of children, but to mothers, for whom the gender gap will never be eliminated without fathers doing more.It is easy to succumb to the fatalist attitude that fatherhood is shaped by cultural norms the state can do little to affect. But there is much it can do: from improving paternity leave, to signalling a stronger stance against discrimination based on paternity, to introducing compulsory sex and relationship education that sets expectations about the responsible parents we want our children to grow up to be. The government must use its forthcoming green paper to put parenthood – not marriage or motherhood – at the heart of its family policy.