MondayOwen Sheers’s Pink Mist, about three lads who join the army and fight in Afghanistan, was one of the best shows of 2015 – and it’s back at Bristol Old Vic, followed by a UK tour. Into the New, at the Pearce Institute in Govan, Glasgow, offers a chance to see emerging talent from the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland’s influential contemporary performance practice programme.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dewey Dell’s Marzo … manga wrestling in space. Photograph: Bernhard MüllerTuesdayDewey Dell’s Marzo at the Barbican’s Pit is a manga-influenced comic strip puppet drama. With his use of paper-cut silhouettes and stop-motion animation, Matthew Robbins should bring something special to Ted Hughes’s The Iron Man at the Unicorn, Southwark. Cheek by Jowl’s The Winter’s Tale begins a UK tour at the Citizens in Glasgow. At Cardiff’s Sherman theatre, one of history’s misremembered women is reconsidered in The Moot Virginity of Catherine of Aragon. India’s surrogacy industry comes under the microscope in Tamasha’s Made in India which goes out on tour from the Belgrade in Coventry. Hijinx and Blind Summit’s terrific Meet Fred, about a puppet negotiating the benefits system, is at the Ustinov in Bath and then on tour. WednesdayOne of the most unsettling plays of last year, Caryl Churchill’s Escaped Alone, in which tea and small talk give way to anxiety and the apocalypse, returns to the Royal Court. Michael McLean’s Years of Sunlight at Theatre503, in Battersea, looks at the crumbled realities of New Town social utopias and post-industrial politics. Wattle and Daub’s monstrous chamber opera for puppets, The Depraved Appetite of Tarrare the Freak, is at the Tobacco Factory in Bristol. Barely Methodical’s circus-based exploration of male friendships, Bromance, will be a crowd-pleaser at Hull Truck. The Vault festival in Waterloo, London begins tonight and runs until March. It’s a bit of a lucky dip: maybe try The Great Gatsby, Balancing Acts and Britney this week.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer forThe Depraved Appetite of Tarrare the Freak ThursdayJohn Tiffany’s very fine revival of The Glass Menagerie opens at the Duke of York’s, London, and makes a conjuring act out of memory. Alexander Zeldin’s Love, an understated and mightily devastating look at homelessness, moves from the National’s Dorfman to Birmingham Rep. Annie Ryan is at the helm for the Shakespeare’s Globe revival of John Webster’s Jacobean shocker, The White Devil, in the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse. The off-Broadway musical hit Murder for Two opens at the Watermill near Newbury, before heading into the St James in London. Want to see some of the best work emerging from Bristol and the south-west? Then check out Ferment Fortnight, which begins at Bristol Old Vic tonight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inua Ellams invites you to An Evening with an Immigrant at Brighton Dome. Photograph: Oliver HolmsFriday and the weekendThere’s lots of London international mime festival activity this weekend. From today you can see a 15-minute puppet show inspired by the life of Anne Frank, One Suitcase Allowed, at the Southbank Centre. Also from tonight comes the French-Norwegian collaboration Ashes at Jackson’s Lane, based on a true life story of arson in a small Norwegian town in the 1970s. Gameshow and Hannah Ringham’s Dancing Bear, Dancing Bear puts men’s bodies in the spotlight at Camden People’s theatre. Ambition, sex and jealousy are explored in Laura Eason’s Sex with Strangers which opens at Hampstead theatre tonight. On Saturday Tim Firth and Gary Barlow’s Calendar Girls musical, The Girls, apparently much rewritten since its try-out last year, opens at London’s Phoenix. On Friday, Scotland’s annual Manipulate festival kicks off with Théâtre de la Pire Espéce’s Cities, in which a city is built before your eyes, at the Lemon Tree in Aberdeen. Inua Ellams’s An Evening with an Immigrant is at Brighton Dome. Jamie Lloyd revives Philip Ridley’s The Pitchfork Disney at Shoreditch Town Hall.