Born in Oman to Scottish parents, Isla Fisher, 40, was raised in Australia. She started acting as a child and went on to appear in the Australian soap Home And Away. Her films include Wedding Crashers (2005), Confessions Of A Shopaholic (2009) and The Great Gatsby (2013). She lives in Los Angeles with the actor Sacha Baron Cohen, their daughters Olive and Elula, and son Montgomery. Her book for children, Marge In Charge, has just been published.When were you happiest?When I won my first Oscar. Oh, wait – that was Amy Adams.What is your greatest fear?Incontinence.What is your earliest memory?Being incontinent.Which living person do you most admire, and why?David Walliams, for making the transition from comic actor to bestselling kids’ author. I’m not sure I’ll be able to do the same.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Arrogance.What was your most embarrassing moment?Being frisked by Oscar guards when I had hidden Ali G’s beard and glasses in my Spanx on the way down the red carpet, all so that my husband, who had been warned by producers not to try anything funny, could outwit them.Aside from property, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought?My sexy Toyota Sienna minivan.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?Eddie Murphy.Who would play you in the film of your life?Amy Adams.What is your most unappealing habit?People-pleasing. I can’t disappoint, which gets me in trouble all the time.What is your favourite word?Thingee (sic); it can be used to accurately describe anything.Which book changed your life?Confessions Of A Shopaholic. I bought it at an airport and fell in love with Rebecca Bloomwood. The movie was a breakthrough career-wise, my first role as a leading lady.What did you want to be when you were growing up?Grown up.What is top of your bucket list?Starring in a biopic of Prince. We are the same height, which I do not believe is a coincidence.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Following Justin Bieber on Instagram.What do you owe your parents?My long legs and height to my mother and my masculine chest to my father.What does love feel like?Suspiciously like indigestion.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Donald Trump – my cooking can kill anyone.What is the worst job you’ve had?Paradise Beach, a 1990s Aussie soap. I had to wear a bikini the whole time – including during funeral scenes.If you could edit your past, what would you change?I would have tried that anti-stretch mark cream during pregnancy.When did you last cry, and why?When I heard the referendum result.Where would you most like to be right now?Back in the EU.What single thing would improve the quality of your life?A small pair of ginger balls.