The Frog and Toad books by Arnold Lobel      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anne Fine. Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose for the ObserverRecommended by Anne Fine, author of Madame Doubtfire, Goggle Eyes and Flour BabiesThe Frog and Toad books are perfect gifts. Children of three to five adore these wry, intelligent and gentle stories about two very different friends. Frog is patient and modest. Toad is not. But together they face the problems any child will recognise: ice‑creams that melt too fast, an overpowering inability to get out of bed, lost buttons, failure of will power, and all the myriad misunderstandings, anxieties and triumphs of small busy lives.The illustrations are a restful, greeny-brown delight. There’s nothing brash and cartoony about these stories. Though written as simply as fables, the wry humour makes them appeal to a wide age range. No adult I know ever tires of reading them aloud. I’ve seen grown men reduced to tears of laughter by Frog and Toad’s confusions.Crongton Knights by Alex Wheatle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nick ShawRecommended by Nick Shaw, English teacher at Dean Trust Ardwick school, ManchesterIt’s an old-fashioned adventure story, but set in a modern London estate. The adventure takes place over one night, when the characters go on a mission to the other side of the city. It’s set against the backdrop of a riot – people are looting shops and the town centre is a no-go area. Throughout the book there’s a threat of violence, and it deals with topics such as sexting, which aren’t very well represented in the usual books on the GCSE syllabus. The dialogue and conversations between characters are so vibrant – I have no idea if that’s how young people talk on estates in London, but it felt authentic. I was blown away by one of my pupils’ responses to the book – he went away and made his mum order the earlier story, Liccle Bit. He hadn’t read a book for five years.The Enchanted Castle by E Nesbit      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Julia Donaldson. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianRecommended by Julia Donaldson, author of The Gruffalo, Room on the Broom and Christmas with Princess Mirror-BelleE Nesbit was the inventor of the modern children’s adventure story. Less well known than Five Children and It or The Railway Children, this to my mind is her most imaginative book. Three siblings discover a secret tunnel that leads them to what they believe is an enchanted castle, though its princess, Mabel, is just as ordinary as they are, despite possessing a ring that can make you invisible.The most powerful part of this book is when some creatures called the Ugly-Wuglies, whom the children make out of coathangers and umbrellas and broomsticks, come to life. They have no roofs to their mouths, so when they speak, “Can you recommend me to a good hotel?” comes out as “Aa oo re o me me oo a oo ho el?” It is terrifying yet funny at the same time.The Young Elizabeth by Jean Plaidy       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lucy Worsley. Photograph: David Levenson/GettyRecommended by Lucy Worsley, historian, broadcaster and author of Eliza Rose, a novel about the Tudor Court for readers of 11 and overA classic bit of historical children’s fiction. I’m amazed when I reread it just how closely she followed the Tudor sources. The story starts with a christening procession that saw the future queen watching her baby brother, Edward VI, being taken by torchlight through the galleries of the palace to the ceremony in the Chapel Royal. It was just one of Plaidy’s many historical books with young female protagonists that were catnip to an introverted nine-year-old like me. My own copy, with its picture of Hampton Court Palace on the cover, is undoubtedly one of the reasons I’ve ended up working there as chief curator.A Child of Books by Sam Winston and Oliver Jeffers  Simon SmithRecommended by Simon Smith, principal of East Whitby community primary, North Yorkshire schoolThis is a lyrical picture book where we follow a young girl who takes a little boy on an adventure through books. It’s about how fiction opens our minds and opens doors to other places. There are beautiful illustrations combined with extracts from classic literature and lullabies. Even though the text elements of the story are short, there’s a joyous celebration of language within it. The use of classic texts such as Treasure Island has made the children want to explore those books – we’ve had to buy more classic text for our library because of it.The Secret of Nightingale Wood by Lucy Strange      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caroline AshRecommended by Caroline Ash, deputy head at Haughton Grange primary school, Blyth, NorthumberlandThis book is set in 1919 and it’s about a girl called Henrietta. It’s shrouded in mystery at the beginning so you don’t really know what’s happened, but you know there’s been an accident and that she had a brother who has died, and that they’ve moved away to the country and mum is ill. It’s a real page turner – I finished reading it in one night when my son went to bed. He’s 10 but I would say it’s suitable for children of nine-plus. There are lots of words where my son would ask “what does that mean?”Hell and High Water by Tanya Landman      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alex Wheatle. Photograph: James Drew Turner for the GuardianRecommended by Alex Wheatle, author of Crongton Knights, winner of the Guardian’s 2016 children’s fiction prizeIt’s a rollicking story, with lots of historical education. The main character’s father is sent away because he’s charged with a theft, and so the son has to prove his father is not guilty. He has to fight the social prejudices of the day – prejudices against poor people – to prove his father is innocent. It shows the injustice of 200 or so years ago for somebody of colour, and it’s about the imbalance of power between rich and poor, and about someone trying to fight against injustice. It’s so relevant to today, and that’s why I really enjoyed it. It’s also very educational – not many people are aware, especially school children today, that black people did exist in north Devon and places like that in the 17th or 18th century.Winter Magic edited by Abi Elphinstone      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jo ClarkeRecommended by Jo Clarke, librarian at Whitchurch C of E primary school, HampshireThis is such a lovely mix of historical and contemporary stories and it captures all the excitement of the season – the frozen Thames, wondrous elves. It features people such as Berlie Doherty, Jamila Gavin, Geraldine McCaughrean, so it’s got classic writers, but also lots of contemporary writers.The reason I love short stories is that they introduce children to new authors. Children often get stuck in a rut – “I’m just reading everything by Jacqueline Wilson.” When you give them a short story anthology it opens a whole new world. It’s suitable for a child around seven, or a child a bit older than that could read independently.How the Grinch Stole Christmas! by Dr Seuss      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Holly SmaleRecommended by Holly Smale, author of teen fiction series Geek GirlI’m a sucker for both rhyming couplets and any “mean person finds joy and love through the magic of Christmas” story, so How The Grinch Stole Christmas! – Dickens with a fluffier antagonist – is in constant demand in my family every December. The jaunty, singsong style of Dr Seuss is entrancing and comforting, especially for children, but it’s the warmth and the heart in this story that make it so unforgettable (along with classic insults like “you have termites in your smile”). No child or adult should go through a winter season without at least one visit to Whoville.Anne of Green Gables by Lucy Maud Montgomery  Bansi KaraRecommended by Bansi Kara, assistant headteacher in central LondonIt’s easy to forget the brilliant characterisation in these stories. They’re about a girl who gets into trouble constantly, but her moral development as a character comes about as a result of her making mistakes. She learns to deal with her own vanity and pride. They’re timeless books and the things that she goes through – feelings of loss, abandonment, feeling like you don’t fit in – most young people experience today. Considering it was written in the early 1900s, it’s still incredibly relevant. There’s a remake happening of the TV series, so it’s going to come back into the public eye.A Wizard of Earthsea by Ursula Le Guin      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frank Cottrell Boyce. Photograph: AlamyRecommended by Frank Cottrell Boyce, author of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang Flies Again, Cosmic and MillionsIt’s about a school for wizards, so that may sound familiar. What is astonishing about the book is that Le Guin’s definition of magic and how it works is strangely convincing. You have to really understand something – to know its real name – before you can control it. The hero, Sparrowhawk, has therefore to find the real name of the shadow that is haunting him. It’s a book full of magic and adventure – it has unquestionably the best map of any fantasy book. But it’s also full of beauty and a wisdom that I still draw on now. It would be the gift that keeps on giving.I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings by Maya Angelou      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Floella Benjamin. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianRecommended by  Floella Benjamin, author of Coming to EnglandThis book it had a profound effect on me. I believe any child experiencing adversity, rejection or that feeling of not belonging will find solace in this book. It will also make them realise they are not alone, as it covers many of the issues children are facing today.Those who suffer from depression or mental health problems, because of the unhappy situations they have to endure, will find this book will empower them to feel worthy and not to allow events to ruin their life, as it will reassure them that it is not their fault when people behave cruelly.It’s a classic book that inspires readers. It fires up the imagination and takes the reader on an unforgettable journey.Wings! by Paul Stewart, illustrated by Jane Porter  Chris RiddellRecommended by Chris Riddell, the Waterstones Children’s LaureatePaul Stewart’s delightful tale of discovering your own special talents, even though they may be different from those around you, is brought to life by Jane Porter’s beautiful collage illustrations. Penguin’s deepest desire has always been to fly but everything goes wrong. It is only when penguin falls into the sea that he discovers a different way to fly. This heart-warming picture book shows children that everyone has something they’re good at. It’s simply a matter of finding what it is.The Secret of the Blue Glass by Tomiko Inui (translated by Ginny Tapley Takemori)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Morpurgo. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianRecommended by Michael Morpurgo, children’s author, best known for War Horse, Kensuke’s Kingdom and Private PeacefulI loved this book. Pushkin Children’s Books are to be congratulated in making it available to an English audience. How important it is, in these times, that our children read the stories from other peoples, other cultures, other times.Set in Tokyo just before the second world war, the Little People, Bilbo, Fern and their children, Robin and Iris, live on a shelf in a dusty room full of books and are cared for by the Moriyama family. The Little People have been entrusted to the Moriyamas by an English teacher, Miss MacLachlan, who has to leave Japan after 20 years’ teaching English as the war comes closer. There is a strong sense of place and the changing seasons are beautifully described. While the story has elements of the work of Oscar Wilde and Hans Christian Andersen, the author admits to having been inspired by Kenneth Grahame and Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.Locomotion by Jacqueline Woodson Recommended by Darren Chetty, a teacher and writer and contributor to The Good Immigrant edited by Nikesh ShuklaAn education book that changed me: favourite reads revealed It’s a short novel, suitable for ages nine- to 13, written as a series of poems. The narrator is Lonnie Motion, an 11-year-old boy whose parents died four years previously in a fire and whom, having spent some time in “group home” now lives with his foster mother, Ms Edna. His teacher encourages him to “write it down before it leaves your brain” and so sets about writing a series of poems through which we learn of his feelings about the loss of his parents, his separation from his sister and the people in his life who show him love.Woodson captures the language of a young African American boy who is determined to make sense of his world. I was struck by how well I felt I knew the other characters in the book just through their appearances in Lonnie’s poems. The warmth and optimism of the book shines through without ever feeling forced.Surely you’re joking, Mr Feynman! by Ralph Leighton and Richard Feynman  Dan AbramsonRecommended by Dan Abramson, headteacher of King’s College London mathematics schoolThis is a collection of stories about Richard Feynman, one of the greatest physicists of the 20th century. It’s all about how he got into physics and the fun he had doing it. Some stories are more serious – he was involved in developing the nuclear bomb – but a lot are about how he played with concepts and was always open to new ideas. The book challenges the sense that there’s a canon of material one must learn to master the subject – it’s about mindset, creativity and fun. It’s accessible to 15- to 16-year-olds who are interested in physics.Zoo-ology by Joelle JolivetRecommended by Isabel Thomas, author of Self-Destructing Science: Space      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Isabel ThomasZoo-ology was published the month my eldest child was born, and has been a family favourite for eight years. Each spread is a safari for the senses, crammed with Joelle Jolivet’s striking animal prints. Her artwork is captivating at any age – bold enough to appeal to babies, and beautiful enough to tempt you to tear out and frame the pages. The book is a wonderful way to start talking about biodiversity, but most of all, it’s fun. When my boys were little, they sat on the pages playing animal hide and seek and spotting the hidden chameleons. Now eight, six and four, they gather around to invent their own versions of I Spy and Guess Who? Older children can pore over well-chosen facts about the featured creatures, tucked away at the back.Noughts & Crosses by Malorie BlackmanRecommended by Charlene Shaw, writer and teacher at Barnwell school, Hertfordshire  Charlene ShawI’m mixed race and there weren’t any books that appealed to my ethnicity. It was the first book I connected with. It explores the idea of racism by reversing the superior race and having the black community as the ruling class. The main story line is a white boy and a black girl who are friends and they end up falling in love even though the odds are against them. The themes are more prominent in today’s society than ever – you’ve got racism, terrorism, friendship and war. The school I teach in is quite diverse, and when the Black Lives Matter protests were happening over the summer last year, I used this novel to explore the issue more deeply.