A reactor at the Indian Point nuclear power plant upriver from New York City remained temporarily out of operation on Monday, following a debilitating transformer failure and fire late on Saturday.The failure happened at Indian Point 3, one of two operating reactors at the Indian Point Energy Center in Westchester County, New York, 38 miles north of New York City. It caused an explosion and a fire, which led to thousands of gallons of transformer fluid – or oil – overwhelming a containment moat and seeping into the Hudson River.The fire happened in the non-nuclear part of the facility, said Diane Screnci at the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).Cuomo says New York nuclear plant fire caused oil spill in Hudson River Deployed governmental agencies and Entergy, the corporation that owns and operates the Indian Point Energy Center and its two reactors – Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 – have yet to ascertain the exact amount of oil released into the Hudson. Charles Rowe, a US coast guard spokesman in New York, said personnel from his agency were dispatched to the scene late on Saturday and observed a “light sheening” on the water, a telltale sign of the presence of oil.Observing a “sheening” as opposed to a “slick” of oil on the water was a reassuring finding, Rowe said. He said it meant the oil quantity was relatively small and had already started to break down in the water.By the time a new coast guard team was dispatched to the scene of the spill on Monday morning, a sheening was no longer noticeable, Rowe said. Tests revealed that the oil leaked into the river was unthreatening to the environment as it was mineral oil, he added: “Something you can buy at the grocery store.”No traces of a much more threatening and toxic fluid used to operate nuclear transformers – polychlorinated biphenyl, also referred to as PCB – was found in the water, Rowe said.Indian Point 3 could be closed for the next few weeks.The timebomb of ageing US nuclear reactors revealed | Damian Carrington According to information made available by the Nuclear Energy Institute, the shut-down section of the plant provides energy to the equivalent of just over one million residents in New York. A total of 1,000 workers are employed at the plant.Screnci with the NRC said this kind of incident was not a cause for concern, describing it as something that “would be considered a day-to-day event”. The fire and oil leak would in no way affect the NRC’s decision in terms of reissuing licenses to the two reactors, Screnci said. Indian Point 3’s operating license is due to expire at the end of this year. Indian Point 2’s license expired in September 2013, NRC online records show. It appears to be functioning under a period of extended operation, pending an official renewal. The NRC has three resident inspectors permanently assigned to the plant site. But Jim Riccio, Greenpeace’s nuclear policy analyst, says the NRC’s track record shows it to be more concerned with the industry’s economic survival than full-throttle regulation.While this weekend’s transformer failure left the actual nuclear reactor intact, Riccio called the decision to have a power plant so close to New York City “abysmal” – both because of the number of people potentially exposed to a nuclear disaster and the enhanced threat of terrorist attacks.Speaking before the press on Sunday, the New York governor, Andrew Cuomo, expressed serious concern for safety, security and environmental impact.“This plant is the nuclear plant that is closest to the most densely populated area on the globe,” he said. “If something goes wrong here, it can go very wrong for a lot of people.”During his first term in office in 2011, Cuomo advisers met Indian Point administrators and expressed the governor’s determination to close the plant down. Riccio at Greenpeace dismissed arguments from energy advocates who describe nuclear power as a solution in the battle against global warming, because it produces no carbon emissions into the atmosphere.Instead, he pointed to the fact that the world has averaged one nuclear catastrophe per decade.“Every single reactor has the potential to be a Fukushima or Chernobyl,” he said. “I fail to see why we continue to put our public at risk for the benefit of these corporations.”