This year’s Young Adult Literature Convention (Yalc) already promises to be a must-see event for all teen and YA book lovers, with the first batch of featured authors only just announced!If you are as excited as we are, you will be pleased to know YA stars David Levithan, Maggie Stiefvater and Costa Book of the Year winner Frances Hardinge, will join Yalc’s founder Malorie Blackman in 2016’s lineup! The conference will be in a dedicated Book Zone at the London Film and Comic Con from 28-31 July 2016 at Olympia, London.Here’s the first list of authors who will be taking part - with more exciting names soon to follow!Who you can expect to see so far:Melvin Burgess - award-winning author who will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of his revolutionary novel Junk which explores the love story of two runaway teenagers who struggle with a heroin addiction on the streets of Bristol.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Melvin Burgess will be at Yalc 2016. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianAlwyn Hamilton - new talent whose phenomenal debut Rebel of the Sands we’re featuring as our teen book club book this month! Find out more here.Frances Hardinge - Costa Book of the Year 2015 winner (also shortlisted for the Carnegie medal 2016 and the Guardian children’s fiction prize 2015) will make an appearance. Her innovative award-winning 2015 novel The Lie Tree tells the story of a Victorian girl who is determined to solve the enigma surrounding her father’s murder.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Costa Book of the Year winner Frances Hardinge will join this year’s lineup! Photograph: Frantzesco Kangaris for the GuardianNina LaCour - we are all eagerly awaiting her soon to be published co-written novel, with David Levithan, You Know Me Well. A deeply honest story told from alternative points of view from Kate and Mark who navigate us through the joys and heartaches of your first true love.David Levithan - American YA author and editor who wrote his unforgettable 2003 debut, Boy Meets Boy, for his friends on Valentine’s Day. He described it as the book he dreamed of getting as an editor about gay teens who don’t conform to the everyday norms.Simon Mayo - BBC Radio presenter personality who has written acclaimed novels featuring scientific themes, starting with Itch, and is soon to publish his first YA book.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   BBC radio personality turned author, Simon Mayo, to make an appearance. Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianMelinda Salisbury - her critically acclaimed debut The Sin Eater’s Daughter, about a 17-year-old princess who is torn by the heartbreaking decision to protect her kingdom or abandon her duty for doomed love, was shortlisted for the YA Book Prize 2016 and the Waterstones Children’s Book Prize 2016.Maggie Stiefvater - the New York Times testselling author will make an appearance at the event. Well-loved for her Shiver trilogy and The Raven Cycle.Lisa Williamson - also shortlisted for the YA Book Prize 2016 and the Waterstones Children’s Book Prize 2016, her debut The Art of Being Normal is about secrets and gender identity and was one of our teen book club reads.First set up by Blackman in 2014, Yalc is the first large scale public literature convention dedicated to teen and YA books in the UK. This year it will be in a dedicated Book Zone at the London Film and Comic Con which runs from 28-31 July 2016 at Olympia, London. Tickets are now available www.londonfilmandcomiccon.com. Keep an eye out for more news about Yalc by our site members!