The story of the Grant family is one of how unrelenting colonial oppression can extinguish a native language. It is also the story of one man’s dedication to his people’s efforts to revive it.If language tells us who we are, then who am I? | Stan Grant Stan Grant Sr, the 76-year-old father of the Guardian contributor of the same name, is one of few Wiradjuri people alive today who grew up hearing his language spoken by a fluent speaker: his maternal grandfather, Wildfred Johnson – or Budyaan, as he was known by his people.Wiradjuri country is one of Australia’s largest Indigenous nations. One of its borders runs through the majestic Blue Mountains just west of Sydney and it was one of the country’s earliest regions to be colonised by British invaders. Of the 28,000 Wiradjuri people alive today, only a small fraction speak their traditional language. That was the fear: you teach your children this language, we will put them in a homeStan Grant Sr Despite a century of land dispossession, frontier wars and massacres, disease and devastating assimilationist policies that banned Indigenous languages from schools, cattle stations and missions, Johnson – who, according to Grant, was born “tribal” in the late 1800s or early 1900s – not only spoke Wiradjuri but was a skilled polyglot who could speak the languages of neighbouring nations: Yorta Yorta, Ngunnawal, Gamilaraay and Barkandji. On the phone from his home town of Narrandera, Grant says many of the old people of that time were multilingual. Language “doesn’t belong to people, it belongs to the land you live on”. Back then if a person were to “go to another man’s country and speak his own language, he’s being disrespectful to the land and to the people”. It was an etiquette of travel not observed by the white-skinned newcomers.Grant was a baby when his family lived at Condobolin mission but doesn’t remember much about mission life because, at five, he moved with his family and seven or eight other families to the New South Wales town of Griffith, more than 200km away. “It took a couple of weeks because we walked and rode pushbikes and rode horses and carts.”  Stan Grant Sr with his son, Guardian Australia’s Indigenous affairs editor, Stan Grant. Photograph: courtesy of the Grant familyEvery school holidays, Grant would forsake playing footy with his mates to “go bush” with his father and grandfather. It was another sort of schooling. One in which his grandfather would talk, sharing the ancient knowledge of their people including tracking and hunting skills, and Grant would listen. “He said this will come in handy for you one day and I expect that you will pass it on. So it was my responsibility.”Sometimes the young boy would be chided by his father for trying to push his grandfather to speak of things that were not for his uninitiated ears. Grant wanted to undergo the ceremony that inducts adolescents into adulthood but Johnson refused to carry it out because his grandson was not “full blood”.One day Grant and his friends were playing in the park when his grandfather came across them. “Barray yanha, barray yanha!” he said, meaning, “Come quick, come quick!” A white police officer happened to walk past and promptly arrested the old man for swearing.The following day a defeated Johnson was released from the lockup and told his grandson that he would never again speak to him in Wiradjuri in town, only “out in the bush” where they were safe.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘Language is my identity. It’s who I am, it’s where I come from. It is me’Grant’s mother, Josephine Johnson, never spoke to her children in Wiradjuri and mostly hid what words and phrases she knew from them. Occasionally she visited her sister in Condobolin and they would send their children away so they could speak in Wiradjuri in private. “We’d hear them though,” Grant says, “talking to and fro in language.”Waking our sleeping Indigenous languages: we're in the midst of a resurgence The Australian government’s assimilationist policies were in full swing and many Indigenous families were petrified their children would be taken away by welfare officers. It was a period of history that would come to be defined by the stolen generations. “That was the fear: you teach your children this language, we will put them in a home. We’ll remove them. That was the feeling most days.”Language was just one aspect of Wiradjuri culture that was taking a severe battering. Christian missionaries condemned their spirituality as heathenism. For more than 40,000 years they had honed sustainable living on the land and yet were called “savages” and “uncivilised” by the pastoralists. Forced off their traditional country and hustled on to reserves, they were considered a vanquished people. In another five years there will be full fluency, in the children anywayStan Grant Sr In his 2002 family memoir, The Tears of Strangers, Grant Sr’s son Stan Grant writes that Aboriginal reserves became “training grounds where blacks could be taught how to be white”. Reserve managers were known to chastise Indigenous people for wailing at funerals. Adopting the white man’s ways was encouraged with the promise of town housing, social service benefits, the right to purchase alcohol and, perhaps most importantly, respect from the broader community.Of the 200 years in which colonial forces subjugated his people, Grant says: “Their greatest success was in convincing blacks to be like them. We wanted to be citizens, we wanted to vote, we fought in their wars and even tried to love them.”When they were barely struggling to survive, barely coping with a drastically changed world, fighting to speak their own language quickly became a lost battle.Grant writes of his parents and his upbringing, “The whiter we could act, the easier our future would be. They’d endured lifetimes of torment and violence and all I needed to do was look around to see there was little joy in being black.”Johnson, Grant’s great-grandfather, died in 1957 and thus was only witness to the very early days of an Indigenous rights movement that demanded equality in the eyes of the law, government policy and wider society. The white Australia policy was being slowly dismantled and immigrant families who in their homes retained the language of their home country began to fill the cities.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stan Grant Sr and his wife, Betty. Photograph: courtesy of the Grant familyWhen Grant Sr spoke of his desire to revive his people’s language in the 1980s, he first sought and received approval from his Wiradjuri elders. With the linguist John Rudder he used community knowledge and historical archives to piece the language back together and produced two new Wiradjuri dictionaries, a grammar book and other text books.Grant says his mother, still harbouring the fear of a darker time, didn’t approve of his work. “She’d go crook sometimes, ‘Why you mucking about with that sort of stuff? Why you mucking about with this? It’s not for you.’”By 1987 he was teaching Wiradjuri in Canberra schools and over the past 30 years brought it to classrooms in all corners of Wiradjuri country, including Dubbo, Parkes, Condobolin, Albury, Wagga and Griffith.  Without your language you have no identity, you have nothingStan Grant Sr About 1,200 students are now studying Wiradjuri in different schools in the central NSW region of Parkes and Grant proudly says that late last year his first set of 18 students attained their graduate certificate in Wiradjuri language from Charles Sturt University in Dubbo. Two years ago a Wiradjuri language smartphone app was launched.While he says “no one is really fluent yet”, he doubts this will be the case for long. “I’d say in another five years there will be full fluency, in the children anyway.” He says learning Wiradjuri is harder for the older people, not only because younger minds grasp new languages more quickly but because “they feel like they should have learned it earlier”.For Grant, learning Wiradjuri is not merely a fulfilment of the responsibilities assigned to him by his grandfather all those years ago but an assertion of Wiradjuri nationhood and all the pride and honour that comes with it. “Your identity is your language. Without your language you have no identity, you have nothing.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Learn some Wiradjuri words and phrasesYamandhu marang / Are you well?Ngawa baladhu marang / Yes I am wellNgawa / YesWiray / NoWiray-dyu winhanga-nha / I don’t knowWidyundhu yuwin ngulung / What is your name?Yuwin ngadhi … / My name is …Mandaang guwu / Thank youGadhangilinya / PleaseNgindhu / YouNganhal / MeYamandhu waygiwinya midhang? / Are you travelling alone?Dhaganhu ngurambang? / Where is your country?Dhaan yanha / Come hereMarang ngadhu-na / I like itMarang ngurung / GoodnightMinya-ndhu yarra / What did you say?Yamandhu gulbarra Wiradjuri? / Do you understand Wiradjuri?Ngadhu galbaa Wiradjuri yali / I speak some WiradjuriDyiramadilinya badhu Wiradjuridya dhaagundha / I am proud to be on Wiradjuri land• Support our journalism by giving a one-off or recurring contribution to Guardian Australia