25 November 2016. That’s the day that new episodes of Gilmore Girls will appear on Netflix, nearly a decade after the show’s finale aired and punctuated the lives of Lorelai, Rory and Emily Gilmore. What do we know about the reboot so far? Netflix has been teasing the show’s return (special shoutout to a recent TCA clip that featured the ladies discussing Amy Schumer), but there are still a lot of questions lingering. Here’s what we do know about the return to Stars Hollow this fall.The cast      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Melissa McCarthy will definitely be returning. Photograph: Shannon Stapleton/ReutersNearly the entire original cast of the show, including its memorable secondary characters, is returning for the reboot. Along with the three Gilmore ladies – Lauren Graham, Alexis Bledel and Kelly Bishop – Amy Sherman-Palladino has re-enlisted mainstays Scott Patterson (Luke), David Sutcliffe (Christopher) and Liza Weil (Paris), as well as Rory’s three dueling love interests, Jared Padalecki (Dean), Milo Ventimiglia (Jess) and Matt Czuchry (Logan). All of the Stars Hollow favorites are back, including memorable weirdo Kirk, who is played by Sean Gunn. This Gilmore Guy is hyped for a Gilmore Girls reboot, and you should be too | Demi Adejuyigbe Most importantly, though, Melissa McCarthy will definitely be returning as Lorelai’s BFF Sookie St James – which might not have happened if there hadn’t been a bunch of Twitter drama about her being too busy to return. The most notable absence will be Edward Herrmann, who passed away in 2014. The actor’s death will be addressed in the show, though, as the characters deal with the passing of Richard Gilmore. There will also be a few new characters, including a reported new love interest for Rory (which is unconfirmed as of now). The plot      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rory’s love life is up for much speculation. Photograph: Patrick Ecclesine/Warner Bros./Getty ImagesThis we know less about, although Netflix has been dropping some major hints on the series’ recently launched Instagram account. The main giveaway is a recent post of a plate of Pop-Tarts with an apple in their midst, a photo that fans know hints at a possible pregnancy. We do know that the series, which Netflix describes as being about how “three generations of Gilmore women grapple with change and the complicated bonds of family during one year in Stars Hollow”, takes place 10 years following the finale. Rory’s love life is up for much speculation, especially since all of her former boyfriends are back. At a recent TCA panel, Bledel hinted: “We’re not supposed to disclose where we pick up with her romantic life, but all of her ex-boyfriends make an appearance in these chapters in one way or the other. I think people’s questions are answered by the end of it.” But back to that apple. Is Lorelai pregnant? Is she getting married to Luke? Will there be another Gilmore girl by the end of the series? The style      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Former secretary of state Madeleine Albright, left, guest starring as herself, during a scene from Gilmore Girls. Photograph: Scott Garfield/APInstead of traditional episodes, Sherman-Palladino has confirmed that Gilmore Girls: A Year In The Life will consist of four 90-minute mini movies, each centering on a season of the year. Winter will be the first, followed by spring, summer and fall. Despite early reports that the series would premiere on separate dates, the four episodes will all be available simultaneously for your binge-watching pleasure. Sherman-Palladino has noted that the arrival of Netflix has impacted the style of the show. At TCA, she said: “This is its own thing. When we left Gilmore, we left Gilmore. There was no Netflix. When Netflix popped up and decided to storm the world and take over, we thought, what a great opportunity to delve into a different form, to tell stories in a different way using beloved characters we loved. To get back in a room with these three actors and go at it again but in a completely different way.”The music      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nobody does it better: Carole King. Photograph: Samir Hussein/RedfernsIt’s unclear whether we can expect that Gilmore Girls’ signature opening tune, Carole King’s Where You Lead, will reappear in the Netflix episodes – although fingers crossed, because it’s not really Gilmore Girls without it. But we do anticipate a soundtrack that pairs cool indie rock numbers with classic songs and potential cameo appearances by real-life bands (the Shins appeared in the original series and reportedly have a new album coming out, so now would be the time to bring them back). Also, thanks to the show’s Instagram, we know that the fictional band Hep Alien will be part of the episodes. The philosophyAlthough the format will be different, the tone and vibe of Gilmore Girls will remain the same as the original episodes. The show has always had a positive, upbeat bent and been about the humor that can arise even in life’s most dramatic situations. Sherman-Palladino, who left the series before its final season, has always known the ending of Gilmore Girls, saying that she has aimed for a pre-planned final four words. Now fans, who have been waiting for those words to be spoken since season seven, will finally get to hear them. But don’t cheat yourself by skipping ahead. “It really is a journey leading up to those last four words,” the creator said at TCA. “It’s going to mean a lot more if you go on the journey. It’s going to mean lot less if you flip to that last page.” Still, we’re on the edge of our seat, rapt with anticipation. As Lorelai might say, “Oy, with the poodles already!” 