People always try to analyse me more than I analyse myself. Everyone wants to talk about Kylie, cocaine, Neighbours. But I want people to see me as a good human being, first and foremost.There is no emotional connection between me and my old hits. Light-hearted pop songs are for having a good time. Critics at the time thought there wasn’t a lot of substance behind them, but history makes all that irrelevant because those critics become old, and the youth who listened to that movement become the critics of today.Editing your life as time goes on is tough. It’s difficult to know what to keep. I’ve managed to keep my sanity. And my sense of humour. Sometimes I don’t keep that one. I own my house. My watch is good, but that’s about it. Possessions don’t mean a lot to me. You can replace a watch, but you can’t replace your family.You can’t measure a fanbase by Twitter followers. Social media doesn’t reflect anything. If you’ve got 160,000 followers it doesn’t mean you’re going to sell 160,000 seats at a concert. You probably pick up 10% of that, if that.‘Especially For You’ was written in Kylie’s key. Stock Aitken Waterman believed if a pop record pushes you up, it makes you feel good. If it’s too low, it sounds like you’re not singing it with energy and oomph. I always found it very high – you’re breaking your balls to try and get there. Having said that, now that I’m a better singer it’s a lot easier for me to get my head around.Playing Joseph [on the West End stage in Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat] took its toll on me. My pop career had died down and I started to look at myself and analyse what I thought wasn’t cool or was cool about the whole thing. That’s where it went a bit pear-shaped. Editing your life as time goes on is tough. It’s difficult to know what to keep. I’ve kept my sanity Anyone who thinks that smoking weed at a younger age doesn’t lead to harder drugs is slightly deluded. Maybe I lacked a role model when I moved to London. I thought that by doing cocaine I was being creative and slightly rebelling against standing there in a loincloth.The last thing I saw at the theatre was Gypsy with Imelda Staunton. It was an incredible performance. When I’m having a good day on stage and the role is good and it’s all going well, I prefer to be there. But if I’m not feeling it, and the role isn’t great, then I’d rather be watching it.Time does go faster as you get older. There’s a lot more to do; there’s a lot more on my plate. There’s a lot more mouths to feed [Donovan has three children with wife Angela Malloch] and I’m aware of a lot more. They say innocence is bliss.At the moment I can see a very cloudy sky in London, which means that hopefully in the southern hemisphere it’s a sunny day. I love Australia and wish I could go back there more often. I’m proud that’s where I’m from. Sometimes its geography can seem difficult because it’s so far away, from everywhere, but actually when you think about it, that’s its greatest asset.Jason Donovan’s Ten Good Reasons & Greatest Hits tour starts on 26 February