George Clooney has added his voice to a rising chorus of protest at the Oscars’ failure to nominate a single actor of colour for an award this year, saying that the Academy is “moving in the wrong direction”.For the second year running, the Academy nominated 20 white actors in the acting categories, leading to protests and a boycott of the event led by director Spike Lee and actor Jada Pinkett Smith and joined by documentary maker Michael Moore.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Jada Pinkett Smith on why she’s boycotting the Oscars Speaking to Variety, Clooney said that more African Americans were nominated a decade ago. “I think around 2004, certainly there were black nominees – like Don Cheadle, Morgan Freeman. And all of a sudden, you feel like we’re moving in the wrong direction.”Clooney said that he was surprised Creed, Beasts of No Nation and Straight Outta Compton had been overlooked by the Oscars, and that Will Smith had not received a best actor nomination for Concussion.“I think that African Americans have a real fair point that the industry isn’t representing them well enough,” said the actor. “I think that’s absolutely true.”David Oyelowo, whose lack of a best actor nomination for his role as Martin Luther King in Selma caused controversy last year, said on Sunday that the Academy “doesn’t reflect me, and it doesn’t reflect this nation”.Oyelowo was speaking at a dinner honouring Academy president Cheryl Boone Isaacs, an African American woman who said that she was “heartbroken and frustrated” by the lack of diversity in the Oscars nominations. She has vowed to take “dramatic steps” to review the membership of the Academy and introduce greater diversity among voters. Clooney broadened his point to take in the lack of roles in Hollywood for women over 40 and the disparity in pay received by male and female actors. “I think we have a lot of points we need to come to terms with. I find it amazing that we’re an industry that in the 1930s, most of our leads were women. And now a woman over 40 has a very difficult time being a lead in a movie.“Jennifer Lawrence and Patricia Arquette have made the loud pronouncement about wage disparity, have put a stamp on the idea that we got to pay attention. But we should have been paying attention long before this.”Clooney added that the issue was broader than just the Oscars, saying that people of colour needed more opportunities in Hollywood. “I don’t think it’s a problem of who you’re picking as much as it is: how many options are available to minorities in film, particularly in quality films?“There should be 20 or 30 or 40 films of the quality that people would consider for the Oscars. By the way, we’re talking about African Americans. For Hispanics, it’s even worse.”The Oscars take place on 27 February, hosted by Chris Rock – who may also feel under some pressure to drop out of the event. However, former host Whoopi Goldberg said that she would attend the event. “It’s not that the people doing the nominating are too white,” said Goldberg in a heated exchange on The View. “The problem is people who can help to make movies that have blacks and Latinos and women and all that, that money doesn’t come to you because the idea is that there’s no place for black movies.”She added: “Boycotting doesn’t work and it’s also a slap in the face to Chris Rock. I find that also wrong. So I’m not going to boycott but I’m going to continue to bitch, as I have, all year round because I’m tired of seeing movies where no one is represented except a bit of the population.”