Damage caused by wind, rain and floods that has disrupted rail services in the south and west of England could take weeks or even months to repair, Network Rail has warned, as it monitors unprecedented numbers of potential blackspots on the tracks while extreme weather continues.An estimated £100m of damage has been caused to the railway in the winter's storms so far. Around 4,000 railway staff have been deployed to tackle flood water and repair tracks to keep trains running.Water levels were continuing to rise in the Thames Valley, where the track operator said nothing more could be done until floods recede. The army and emergency services had helped shore up lines in the region but flooding has continued to cause significant problems, with more severe weather expected.Passengers have been told to avoid travelling west out of London Paddington unless absolutely necessary, with First Great Western services to Cornwall affected by the elements.Some trains were running through the flooded Thames Valley, but speed restrictions meant limited services could run.The toll that the weather may yet take on the railway was revealed by Network Rail director of operations, Robin Gisby, who said: "We're aware of structures and embankments that are susceptible in poor weather conditions. During a normal winter we'd be keeping an eye on about a dozen. Currently we're monitoring about 400."More money was made available for the railway in the next five-year plan specifically to combat the challenges of the climate. The Office of Rail Regulation agreed an extra £300m that Network Rail requested in its strategic review for resilience, to take account of the more extreme weather conditions that the UK is now experiencing.Last year, chief executive David Higgins warned that the changing weather was "a wake up call for the whole industry, which we ignore at our peril".David Cameron visited Dawlish in Devon on Tuesday to see the site of the worst rail damage so far. Storms last week washed away a section of the seawall, wiping out the rail link to Cornwall. Repair work has started but Network Rail said it would take a minimum of six weeks.With flooding in the Somerset Levels leaving one stretch of the line under water for three-quarters of a mile, rail services to south-west England via Bristol now terminate at Weston-super-Mare,with a limited service extending to Bridgwater. Coaches are replacing trains between Bridgwater and Taunton, and between Plymouth, Exeter, and Bristol. The Night Riviera sleeper has been suspended until further notice. There are limited services running out of Waterloo to Exeter.In the Maidenhead area, where there is significant flooding, efforts by rail workers and emergency services to protect the track have kept some trains running – around five an hour, instead of 12 – but with speed restrictions and major delays.In Datchett, on the Windsor line, floodwater has covered the tracks, meaning trains are not running between Staines and Windsor.Problems elsewhere caused by the severe weather include a landslip at Oxted in Sussex, which is likely to close the Uckfield branch line for several weeks. There are emergency speed restrictions in Kent, and the Hastings line remained shut.Trains between Eastleigh and Fareham are likely to be cancelled for the rest of the month after the collapse of an embankment at Botley in Hampshire.Flooding has also closed lines from Cardiff Central to Shrewsbury and Newtown to Welshpool in Wales, with only limited rail replacement bus services.A section of the Cambrian line along the west coast of Wales reopened on Monday after storm damage in January. However, the worst-hit stretch between Barmouth and Pwllhelli is unlikely to be fully repaired for several months.