Dickensian8pm, BBC1Tony Jordan et al’s Dickens mash-up continues to be as irresistible as a leftover Christmas cheese platter. Tonight’s slice sees Arthur Havisham hiding from the foul Compeyson while the latter tightens the vice around his victim’s knackers. Mrs Bumble puts Mr Bumble on a diet and Inspector Bucket continues his quietly determined investigation into Marley’s death, this time calling on a twitchy Mr Barbary. The Victorian setting allows for all of the usual soapy tropes minus the incredulity. May it run, year-round. Julia RaesideTrust Me, I’m a Doctor8pm, BBC2Michael Mosley and his team of doctors use science to bust the myths about staying healthy. With an experiment on human guinea pigs, they hammer home the message that artificial sweeteners might not be as good for you as their manufacturers claim. Also on the menu: a new treatment for nut allergies and a theory about shifting mealtimes that could help you lose weight. There’s also a look at dandruff shampoo and a lesson in how many harmful chemicals there are in cleaning products. Hannah VerdierMidsomer Murders8pm, ITVTinfoil hats at the ready, as a sighting at local alien hotspot Cooper Hill coincides with the death of a forest ranger. The macabre news means booming trade for a local hotelier (a wasteful use of Alison Steadman), as such sightings keep the ufologists pouring in. The plot thickens to an extraterrestrial goo-like consistency when it emerges that the local RAF base is run by the estranged father of the victim. Expect secret lovers, traitorous behaviour and more murder for DCI Barnaby and DS Nelson to delve into. Ben ArnoldGreat Barrier Reef with David Attenborough9pm, BBC1Rounding off his return to the watery wonderland 60 years on from his first dive there, the naturalist contemplates the site’s future. From cyclones to climate change, the dangers facing the reef are many, and conservationists are even dabbling in selective breeding to restore the coral to its former glory. Although the subject matter is rather worrying, wonderful underwater photography, a record-breaking trip to the depths and a behind-the-scenes look at filming buoy up proceedings. Hannah J DaviesI’m an Alcoholic: My Name Is10pm, Channel 5It’s detox season, but what about those who simply couldn’t quit boozing? This doc gathers together the reflections of both the newly sober and those with a few years of abstinence behind them. The overall effect is of a well-edited AA meeting as those interviewed – who include a classical musician and a journalist – tell their stories simply, without self-pity and with a little gallows humour. A recurring theme is anxiety. David Yelland recalls of his first day as editor of the Sun: “I couldn’t sit and not shake.” Jonathan WrightExtant9pm, SyfyThe doomed Extant – it’s being cancelled by CBS – returns for a second season, with Halle Berry as astronaut and charisma vacuum Molly Woods, who somehow became pregnant during a solo mission to space, later giving birth to an alien offspring. Now back on Earth, she confronts some truths about husband Dr John Woods, who is planning to rebuild their humanoid robot son Ethan after he gave his life for his mother. Meanwhile, David Morrissey joins the cast as General Shepherd, who has history with Molly. BAOccupied9pm, Sky ArtsThe premise of this new Norwegian political thriller starring Henrik Mestad is certainly intriguing. It’s the near future and Norway’s enlightened prime minister has announced that he is stopping all fossil fuel production. The EU isn’t having this, so it calls on Russia to invade. The all-too-plausible realpolitik is bolstered, though some would say blighted, by large helpings of wham-bam action and a glossy – rather than sober and ruminative – treatment. But it’s worth sticking with to see how this pans out. David StubbsFilm choiceWhat’s Love Got to Do with It (Brian Gibson, 1993) 12.35am, Channel 4A gutsy biopic of Tina Turner, played with belting power by Angela Bassett. Based on the singer’s autobiography, it’s very Tina-friendly, but there’s much to admire in her rise to the top, weathering the storm that was her abusive husband Ike (Laurence Fishburne) along the way. Great songs too, from River Deep, Mountain High to Nutbush City Limits. Shame about the misjudged finale in which la Turner comes on stage to play herself. Paul HowlettGreenberg (Noah Baumbach, 2010) 2.30am, Channel 4Ben Stiller is a former rocker-turned-carpenter, returned to his native LA to house-and-dog sit for his brother. He’s cranky, argumentative and inclined to exploit more kindly souls, such as would-be singer Greta Gerwig and former bandmate Rhys Ifans. It’s an eloquent and touching comedy of disillusionment and social awkwardness, reminiscent of Woody Allen. PHToday’s best live sportBig Bash Cricket: Adelaide Strikers v Hobart Hurricanes More from the Australian T20 league. 8.30am, Sky Sports 1Snooker: The Masters John Higgins takes on Liang Wenbo at Ally Pally. 1pm, BBC2Premier League Football: Liverpool v Arsenal Title-chasing Arsenal visit Jürgen Klopp’s underwhelming Liverpool. 7.15pm, BT Sport 1PSA Squash The women’s semi-finals at the Morgan Tournament of Champions event in New York. 10pm, BT Sport 2