A story often dismissed as wild fiction, that 18th-century grave robbers stole Shakespeare’s skull, appears to be true, archaeologists have said.The first archaeological investigation of Shakespeare’s grave at Holy Trinity church in Stratford-on-Avon has been carried out for a documentary to be broadcast by Channel 4 on Saturday.The most striking conclusion is that Shakespeare’s head appears to be missing and that the skull was probably stolen from what is a shallow grave by trophy hunters.Kevin Colls, the archaeologist who led the team, said the grave was not as they had expected. “We came across this very odd, strange thing at the head end. It was very obvious, within all the data we were getting, that there was something different going on at that particular spot. We have concluded it is signs of disturbance, of material being dug out and put back again.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Archaeologists conducting the survey of William Shakespeare’s grave at Holy Trinity church. Photograph: Production Company/Arrow Media/Channel 4There is also “a very strange brick structure” that cuts across the head end of the grave, he said.All of that gives credence, Colls said, to a story published in the Argosy magazine in 1879 that Shakespeare’s skull was stolen from Holy Trinity in 1794.“Grave-robbing was a big thing in the 17th and 18th century,” said Colls. “People wanted the skull of famous people so they could potentially analyse it and see what made them a genius. It is no surprise to me that Shakespeare’s remains were a target.”Shakespeare’s grave is visited by hundreds of visitors each year, a number that may increase in 2016 – the 400th anniversary of his death.It carries no name, only a slightly disturbing warning: “Good friend, for Jesus’ sake forbear, / To dig the dust enclosed here. / Blessed be the man that spares these stones, / And cursed be he that moves my bones.”The archaeological team used non-invasive ground-penetrating radar (GPR) to examine the grave and were able to put to bed a few myths about Shakespeare’s burial.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   GPR image showing rectangular feature at the head end of the grave, with apparent brick repair outlined in red. Photograph: Production Company/Arrow Media/Channel 4For example, one story suggests he was buried standing up, as his friend and fellow writer Ben Jonson is in Westminster Abbey. Another claims that he was buried 17ft deep to avoid being disturbed, while one says he was buried in a family tomb.None of those stories are true, the team has concluded. Instead he is buried about 3ft deep and had been wrapped simply in a shroud rather than placed in a coffin.Their conviction that Shakespeare’s skull was stolen led the team to investigate another story – that the real skull is in fact 15 miles away in the crypt of St Leonard’s church in the village of Beoley, Worcestershire.Grim exhibition shows role of grave robbers in medical science The team scanned the skull and carried out a forensic anthropological analysis and the results revealed it could not be Shakespeare. “It was an unknown woman in her 70s,” said Colls, whose team even did a facial reconstruction to hammer the point home.Colls said he is convinced Shakespeare’s skull was removed from his grave but accepts the evidence is not conclusive. However, the vicar of Holy Trinity, the Rev Patrick Taylor, is not so certain.“We now know much more about how Shakespeare was buried and the structure that lies underneath his ledger stone,” he said. “We are not convinced, however, that there is sufficient evidence to conclude that his skull has been taken. “We intend to continue to respect the sanctity of his grave, in accordance with Shakespeare’s wishes, and not allow it to be disturbed. We shall have to live with the mystery of not knowing fully what lies beneath the stone.”• Secret History: Shakespeare’s Tomb is on 26 March 8pm on Channel 4.