With so many channels and websites hungry for original work and so many comic actors making a dozen or more projects a year, it was probably inevitable that Rob Huebel would have a multiple-personality moment like the one he’s having today.This Friday afternoon, Huebel and writing partner Paul Scheer will premiere Interrogation, their virtual reality comedy short, at the Sundance film festival in Utah. In the short, which is Funny or Die’s first VR project, the viewer sees the point of view of someone accused of a horrible crime, and Huebel and Scheer play the extremely bad police detectives.Then tonight Huebel stars in two TV projects that will air at the same time – 11pm ET on competing comedy networks. Comedy Central will air Crash Test with Rob Huebel and Paul Scheer, a roving comedy special where the audience travels around Los Angeles on a tour bus to see impromptu skits like Rob Corddry having a late-night yard sale, Natasha Leggero walking her dogs and Aziz Ansari pretending not to be Aziz Ansari.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At the same time, Adult Swim will air the season premiere of medical farce Childrens Hospital, on which Huebel co-stars as Dr Owen Maestro. (There is no apostrophe in “Childrens” because the children’s hospital where the show takes place is named after Dr Arthur Childrens. It’s that kind of show.)Huebel isn’t fazed by the clash, saying that he doesn’t see projects – or even actors – competing with each other today like they did in years past. “For my thing to succeed, your thing doesn’t have to fail. There’s enough business out there for all of us. There’s a lot more cooperation and cross-pollination, and that coincides with the explosion across all of these platforms. There’s Amazon, there’s Hulu, there’s all these other platforms that are looking for content now.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Once, many actors spent nine months a year on a single TV series and then made a movie during the three-month hiatus. Over the last decade, the TV landscape has shifted from network shows that make 22 episodes a season, to shows on cable and streaming that have shorter seasons, indie films for outlets like iTunes and Netflix, alternative programming like comedy specials and digital shorts for streaming-video sites YouTube, Funny or Die, and Nerdist. For in-demand actors like Huebel, that means a dizzying and overlapping blur of projects.Over the last year, Huebel has made four films, been a regular on Childrens Hospital (now in its seventh season), worked as a recurring character on FX’s The League, made many TV guest appearances, appeared in numerous comedy shorts and developed a pilot for Comedy Central that will tape in the next few months.For all his comedic output over the last year, it is Huebel’s dramatic work on the first two seasons of Amazon’s Transparent that has raised his profile. On the Golden Globe-winning series about a retired college professor’s transition to a woman and the lives of her three adult children, Huebel plays Len, a nice guy in an unhappy marriage to one of them, Sarah– played by Amy Landecker – who leaves him for a woman.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Interrogation, a virtual reality show launching at Sundance. Photograph: Funny or Die“Huebel is someone who’s now starting to get more dramatic opportunities – as he should,” said Jon Stern, a producer on Childrens Hospital who is also producing Huebel’s upcoming Comedy Central pilot. “He can be very vulnerable as an actor where that’s called for, and we often write him full of attitude and bluster on Childrens Hospital because it’s fun to watch him do that too.”Midway through the first season of Transparent, there is a scene in which Huebel’s character picks up his kids from dinner and sees Maura – played by Jeffrey Tambor – for the first time as a woman. He mocks Maura, he shows irritation, then anger, then visible pain that his world has changed, and he apologizes for lashing out. It’s a complex performance, and Huebel is convincing both as someone deeply altered by the changes around him and as a disinterested stand-in for viewers who aren’t quite sure what to make of what they’re seeing.“When Mort transitions to Maura, that shakes the whole family and shakes all of these secrets out of everybody,” Huebel said. “My character is one of those people who has never had any interaction with a trans person and is really thrown off by it. A lot of people fall into that category, and that was me during the first season.”Amazon picked up Transparent for a third season that will begin taping mid-year. Until then, Huebel will get back to being funny. He’s getting ready to shoot his Comedy Central pilot, which is based on a series of sketches he made several years ago for Funny or Die with celebrities like Ben Stiller and Deepak Chopra.“Every week, I take a celebrity on a quest to go find a dead body that I know about,” Huebel said. “It’s like Stand By Me without the stupid kids like Jerry O’Connell.” (He’s kidding; Huebel and O’Connell are longtime friends.) “It’s never explained how I know about the dead body. It’s kind of an Easter egg hunt.”