Again, self-selected business leaders are calling for a new runway (Letters, 7 September). They offer the interesting example of the desperate need to fly Scottish salmon, presumably farmed, to the world’s developing economies.Are they living on a different planet? How many individuals in the world’s poorer nations “need” salmon flown thousands of miles to accompany the salad presumably shipped in similar style from Harrods (another signatory)?They also ignore the onrushing disaster of climate change in order to turn a quick profit – big business at its worst. I agree with them that dithering from government is unhelpful. We need a decision as soon as possible: no new airport capacity at all!Business leaders can of course ask for anything they like; government is there to limit the damage they do to the environment and be guided by duty, science and ethics. The facts of climate change should make it clear that air transport is an ongoing chronic environmental disaster. We need less, not more!I feel sorry for the salmon too.Dr Colin BannonCrapstone, Devon• My response to the 40 business leaders who demand a new runway is to ask if they think planet Earth (the holding company), or indeed any truly world-leading future Britain, can afford further inaction and hypocrisy on climate change. Many of the companies that these CEOs represent make bold claims about sustainability leadership from time to time.No. What the world needs now is a new type of leader who refuses to fly. Every 48 hours spent in the air equates to the entire lifestyle greenhouse gas emissions of one average European. For a year. Yet many of “the great and the good” who speak nobly to inspire us to act on climate chaos happen to be frequent flyers. Flagrant double-talk. Whether they like it or not, the unspoken message is heard loud and clear: “We’re carrying on flying.”We need trend-setters, not jet-setters. Leaders who refuse to fly, saying why. The elephant in the room is flying. Please, “leaders”, no more acting dumbo about that gas-guzzling jumbo. Dave HamptonMarlow, Buckinghamshire• Candidates for O-level maths exams in the 1950s were advised to show their working in order to maximise their marks. I wonder if the signatories to the letter calling for a new runway could be encouraged to show how they came up with a figure of £9.5bn as the amount Britain has missed out on in trade with emerging economies as a result of the lack of a new runway. Without this working, it seems that such a figure and the argument it supports becomes meaningless.Christopher MooreYork • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com