The brilliance of Orkney library was recognised this weekend with a surprise visit from JK Rowling. The home of one of the funniest Twitter feeds out there, run by librarian Stewart Bain, it has come up with such gems as the Celebrity Big Brother book display...Orkney Library (@OrkneyLibrary)To be honest we now regret choosing Celebrity Big Brother as our first book display of 2016 #CBB #notavintageyear pic.twitter.com/fo18NOIvRIJanuary 6, 2016… and There’s Wally; the library’s fix for a copy of the “book returned with Wally circled on every page. We had to amend the title”.Orkney Library (@OrkneyLibrary)Where's Wally trending reminds us of the book returned with Wally circled on every page. We had to amend the title pic.twitter.com/OaGLlF5avdMarch 5, 2015Bain, who is the Publishers’ Publicity Circles librarian of the year, likes to dig up treasures from the library’s backlist, from Thelma Barlow’s Organic Gardening With Love (“When a man is tired of looking at Mavis Riley in a jumpsuit, on the phone, holding strawberries, he is tired of life”) to Heather Hay and Barry Hearn’s The Business (“You know those days when you think ‘I really want to read an action-packed thriller set in the world of snooker’”?)Orkney Library (@OrkneyLibrary)You know those days when you think "I really want to read an action-packed thriller set in the world of snooker"? pic.twitter.com/pdbXojZgP2October 20, 2014After tweeting details of the library’s crime book club Saturday Slaughters, which was preparing to discuss Robert Galbraith’s – AKA JK Rowling’s – novel The Cuckoo’s Calling on Saturday afternoon, the Orkney library account engaged in a discussion with the novelist, who tweeted that it “sounded like a fun event”. “It certainly will be. If you set off for Scrabster now you should still catch the ferry,” she was told. “Weather looks a bit rough. Might just Apparate,” Rowling responded, revealing her preference for lemon drizzle cake, which the library promptly bought, as well as “tea the colour of creosote, just the way [her character Cormoran] Strike likes it”.“We have the lemon cake on standby just in case @jk_rowling turns up #shopbought #weapologise,” tweeted Bain. Then Rowling did actually present herself for what she said was a “wonderful chat” with the book group. The novelist was allowed to “touch The Book”, photographed holding Barlow’s Organic Gardening With Love.J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling).@OrkneyLibrary I had the best time! Thanks for wonderful chat, cake and, of course, letting me touch The Book. pic.twitter.com/VCrU2lJAT6March 5, 2016“It really was quite unbelievable. We had heard a rumour earlier that she had arrived in Orkney and then all of a sudden she was there. We gave her a tour of the library and then she came and sat in on the book group. Everyone was really quite gobsmacked,” Bain told the Press and Journal. “I think it’s fantastic that she came all the way here to see us, and shows the level of support and passion that she has for her readers.”If there’s a more heartwarming story to have emerged from the weekend, please do tell us about it. If you are new to Orkney Library, do have a browse through their Twitter account as there are some doozy tweets, all crafted with humour and love for books. I am particularly fond of this one, because it combines cats, books and libraries:Orkney Library (@OrkneyLibrary)Cats doing their tribute to THAT scene from Women in Love again. Tonight Ian is Oliver Reed & Stanley is Alan Bates pic.twitter.com/FrGwnZMbvPFebruary 3, 2015