This year, for the first time in its history, there has been a drop in the number of shows and performances at the Edinburgh fringe. The Free Fringe has been significantly hit. Mind you, with 50,266 performances of 3,269 shows, festivalgoers are not going to be complaining about a lack of choice.Edinburgh festival 2016: what to see and where to go The combined clout of all Edinburgh’s festivals throughout the year – from Hogmanay through the science, magic, film, jazz and blues, book, international and fringe festivals – makes the city a magnet for tourists. Around 4.5 million people attended one of its festivals in 2015, which in terms of visitor numbers places Edinburgh’s combined festivals on a par with the World Cup and second only to the Olympics. Those locals who complain that they are fed up with festivals – and the summer shebang in particular – need to remember that not only do they enrich the city culturally, they also bring huge economic returns. Without them the city would be poorer in every way.The drop in the number of shows and a small decline in the number of venues is hardly evidence that the end is nigh for the fringe. Ever since I began going in the 1980s, people have been predicting that the bubble is about to burst. But it is now such a significant showcase and marketplace, at least as far as theatre is concerned, that I think it is unlikely to go pop. A few fewer shows, and more high quality shows, might actually rebalance the inequalities of supply and demand. However, without care and thought – particularly as to the implications of the Brexit vote on the festivals – it may well continue to shrink.The cost of staging an Edinburgh fringe show: artists open their account books One indicator of this trend is thenumber of companies who are coming to the fringe for shorter periods of time. As far as I know, nobody has done any research in this area but, from what I can tell, companies are tending to do fewer performances. I keep getting interested in shows, only to realise that there are only a handful of performances.It’s always been the case that school and college groups have paid hit-and-run visits to the fringe. The same goes for companies visiting from abroad. These companies are in Edinburgh in August in order to “do” the fringe, and have the “fringe experience”, but the costs involved are too high to support a longer run and, in any case, even with family, friends and supporters in tow, the audience for an American high school dance-theatre musical production of Macbeth is probably exhausted within a few days.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   For 10 nights only … Finding Joy, by the Vamos Theatre company, will be at the Assembly Hall for a strictly limited part of the Edinburgh festival. Photograph: Graeme BraidwoodBut professional companies increasingly seem to be taking the same option. When I spoke to Rachael Savage of Vamos Theatre, who will be at Assembly Hall with Finding Joy for just 10 performances, she cited “finance and sanity” as reasons for not staying longer. Short runs require far less financial outlay, and after three weeks on the fringe most people are slightly crazy – critics included. Plus, if you are a theatre-maker with a family, then a full Edinburgh run destroys the school holidays.But is going for a shorter period really the best option? Finding Joy, a reworked version of a show that has been enormously successful on tour, will have to sell at 75% capacity to break even, and as many companies know, even if you have what turns out to be a hit show, it takes time to build an audience through word of mouth. Pity the company that wins a Fringe First award on the Friday of the second week when they have only one performance left. Short runs also mean you are less likely to get reviews, and if you are looking to interest producers or you have international hopes for your show, there is less time to network or get industry people in to see it. During British Council Showcase years, a lot of companies descend on Edinburgh for the final week of the festival. Being in the biennial showcase creates sufficient pull to attract both audiences and industry interest. Curated programmes, such as those by Northern Stage, Paines Plough and Forest Fringe, are often hallmarks of quality and negate many of the drawbacks of shorter runs. A company such as Third Angel, who are bringing the show 600 People for the second half of the festival, have the benefit of the Northern Stage brand, as well as their own reputation, behind them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   O No! starring Jamie Wood, who has rented Edinburgh venues on a time-share basis.For an unknown company, it’s far riskier. It does sometimes pay off – think Barrel Organ with Nothing in 2014 or Ontroerend Goed with Smile Off Your Face in 2007. More often, artists leave disappointed by the fact that Edinburgh has done nothing to raise their profile, while venues and those offering accommodation have still raked in the cash. There’s the option of coming for the whole festival but sharing a slot with another company, as Sh!t Theatre, Jamie Wood, Rachel Mars and others have all done in the past at Summerhall. It may save on your venue rental hire, but you’ve still got to pay for three months’ accommodation.Edinburgh festival planner: three shows to see today Perhaps the festival needs to look at this year’s shorter runs as an indication that the city is slowly but surely pricing itself out of the market. The fringe will only retain its position as the essential place to showcase theatre for as long as companies feel there is some chance the rewards will match the considerable investment required to attend. When that ceases to be the case, theatre companies will look to other places – including Brighton and also festivals abroad – that can offer better value for money. 