Sitcoms have a long, proud legacy of the “very special episode”. You know the ones, when a comedy takes on a social issue of the day and tries to change people’s opinions between the squawking of the laugh track. Just remember when Maude got an abortion in the 70s, when Diff’rent Strokes brought attention to child sexual abuse in the 80s, or Ellen DeGeneres finally coming out in the 90s. ABC’s hit sitcom Black-ish is no stranger to taking on hot button issues and some of its finest hours (well, half hours) have focused on topics like gun control and the N-word. On Wednesday, Black-ish is going to enter into an elite club of very special episodes: shows that have taken on the topic of police brutality. This is the age of #BlackLivesMatter and sometimes there is no better way to get a message out to the American public than secreting it in one of their favorite sitcoms.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On this episode, the Johnson clan is sitting around waiting to hear whether a police officer is going to be indicted for killing an unarmed black man – a case that sadly has several antecedents in recent history, most notably Michael Brown, whose death sparked the unrest in Ferguson in 2014. While Black-ish patriarch Dre (Anthony Anderson) wants to teach his children to be afraid of the police, his wife Rainbow (Tracee Ellis Ross) wants her children to respect their authority and have trust that the judicial process works.As it has done in the past, Black-ish takes the various viewpoints of its characters and argues different sides of the debate, which allows for many more shades of grey than the typically heavy-handed “very special episode” usually allows. This one is no different, giving voice not only to Dre and Rainbow, but also their children and the writer Ta-Nehisi Coates, whose book Between the World and Me figures prominently in the debate. While Black-ish is the most recent show to tackle this difficult subject, it is certainly not the first. In the wake of the Rodney King trial, several sitcoms took on police brutality. In 1992, The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air featured an episode called Will Gets Committed where the family goes to clean up after the Los Angeles riots. Several other episodes would deal with the police’s treatment of black citizens, including an installment where Will (Will Smith) and Carlton (Alfonso Ribeiro) get mistaken for car thieves. A later episode features a joke that presages the “hands up, don’t shoot” chant of recent Black Lives Matter protest. Family Matters had an episode in 1994 called Good Cop, Bad Cop where Sergeant Carl Winslow’s (Reginald VelJohnson) son Eddie (Darius McCrary) is pulled over and roughed up by some cops for little to no reason. Luckily his dad is there to give the racist cops a piece of his mind.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest After that, the topic was mostly put on the shelf, but some shows continued to go there. In 2006, Everybody Hates Chris had an episode called Everybody Hates Jail in which Chris (Tyler James Williams) deals with racial profiling. The same year, The Boondocks’ character Uncle Ruckus gets shot dozens of times by a cadre of white cops after doing nothing more than reaching for his ID, reminiscent of the shooting of Amadou Diallo in 1999. With the recent attention paid to the subject, television has responded not just with special episodes on comedies, but on dramas as well. Last March in an episode called The Lawn Chair, Scandal dealt with a Ferguson-related storyline where a father was grappling with the death of his son who was shot by police and Olivia Pope (Kerry Washington) was called in to help prevent a riot, only to sympathise more with the father than the police force she was working for.In October, Law & Order: Special Victims Unit ripped a story from the headlines for A Nation Divided which again focused on an unarmed black teen shot by police, but this was complicated by Olivia Benson (Mariska Hargitay) being an officer herself and not knowing which side to take. This was the rare drama that tried to give the police perspective to the story.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest While many of these recent episodes have been sobering and serious, there is no precedent for Adult Swim’s Black Dynamite, which put together an hour-long musical special called The Wizard of Watts featuring an all-star cast (Eryka Badu, Tyler the Creator, JB Smoove) and a plot that is – well, it sure is something. When the citizens riot after a young man is beaten by police, Black Dynamite gets hit in the head with a brick and has a hallucination right out of the Wiz, complete with police officers that are literal pigs and a wizard played by Magic Johnson. Sometimes it takes humour to put these things into perspective or, in the case of Black Dynamite, make them so completely absurd that the fact that police behaviour like this continues in America seems ludicrous. Black-ish, of course, takes a much more measured tone (it is on ABC, after all) but deserves credit for smuggling this subject into America’s dens and family rooms, in the grand tradition of very special episodes. 