The first public hint that Bungie was working on a new game – a new franchise – to follow its astonishing run of success with Halo, the iconic first person shooter, came in the form of an easter egg in its penultimate entry in that series, Halo 3: ODST.It was 2009. At that point, development on the new game had barely started. The earliest work was concept art, ideas for characters and weapons showing a fusion of high fantasy swords-and-sorcery and post-Halo space opera. But Bungie already had a name, and a setting. It was enough for the teaser image, which showed the earth, flanked by an artificial moon. The caption: “Destiny awaits.”Seven years on, Bungie has rebuilt itself around Destiny. The walls of its huge open-plan studio in Bellevue in Washington state are still adorned with that early concept art, recognisable even after countless iterations as the first steps on a $500m journey to build a new type of console game.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Halo: ODST Easter Egg Photograph: BungieBut in most aspects, the studio has changed almost as much as Destiny itself. After 10 years working on Halo, Bungie had to teach itself how to make a massively multiplayer game from scratch. It’s a never-ending conundrum but two years into Destiny’s projected decade-long lifespan, the team has got as far as anyone. At times, it has been rocky progress, but with the game’s fourth expansion out in September and its first sequel following next year, Bungie has finally got the time to look back at how it all happened.Forethought“When we made Halo 1, we didn’t have a plan for Halo 3. It wasn’t part of an intentional series of games. We were just doing our best to make an amazing game,” says Jonty Barnes, Bungie’s vice president of game development. “And so we asked ourselves, ‘Hey, what would we do differently if we knew that we were gonna create a franchise that would last over a decade? What lessons have we learned from Halo, so we don’t paint ourselves into a corner? What would we want to do if we were to reinvent the Bungie shooter? And what did we want to hold on to that was super important to us?”Barnes, an English expat who cut his teeth at influential developers Lionhead in the 1990s on games including cult classic Dungeon Keeper and AI trailblazer Black and White, now has responsibility for the strategic view at Bungie. While most of the staff are focused on specific projects, with some working on September’s expansion Rise of Iron, and others focusing on next year’s Destiny 2, he has the chance to take the longer view.“We believed that the core action game was the most important thing to hold on to in terms of Bungie’s craft. Bungie has got a history of doing games that allow players to play together. While PvP [player versus player] on Halo was very competitive, we also had a lot of people playing cooperative Halo, and we felt like we hadn’t tapped into that opportunity. We really wanted to lean into that very heavily with Destiny, and knew that that would create more opportunities for players to play together.“And so we laid out a series of games, that was the 10-year plan. It would be disingenuous to say that’s the same plan that we’ve got today, but I will say, if you look at the original vision of the first release of Destiny and the goals that we set out, we kept to that clear vision of what we believed was important, and executed on it.”It is true that Destiny hasn’t had an easy ride to get where it is. On launch, the game was an odd mix of the extremely polished action that Bungie had developed a reputation for throughout its years on Halo, tied together with an overarching plot which, to put it kindly, made no sense. Narrative threads were introduced with little explanation, or dropped without resolution, while dialogue was corny at best (particular highlights included “I don’t have time to explain why I don’t have time to explain” and a bored-sounding Peter Dinklage, voicing the player’s main companion, exclaiming “That wizard came from the moon!”). A huge chunk of the game’s formidable worldbuilding, meanwhile, was exiled to Bungie’s website and the game’s companion app, rendering it invisible to most players.In October 2015, gaming site Kotaku revealed that the game felt that way because it had been substantially rewritten in the run-up to launch. With just six months to go before the planned release, Bungie chiefs had decided that the story of Destiny just didn’t work. “They decided it was too campy and linear,” Kotaku’s Jason Schreier wrote, “and they quickly decided to scrap [the initial] version of the story and start from scratch.”Two years on, though, the decision is starting to pay dividends. The story, Schreier wrote, wasn’t just rewritten for tone, but also to make it less linear, allowing the game to be played in an order largely of the player’s choosing; the same decision led to the introduction of the Director, the menu screen from which players pick what missions to play. By the launch of The Taken King, the third expansion pack for Destiny, which came out in September 2015, that flexibility was being used to offer alternative versions of missions, one-off challenges and special quest chains which could be played at multiple points in the story.“I think it’s fairly obvious from the releases that we’ve done since the first game that we want to improve our craft in storytelling,” said Barnes. “We’ve made a lot of progress there: I think we didn’t realise the potential of storytelling. Personally, I’ve found Rise of Iron to be the most satisfying so far.”Slot machinesHalo had shown that Bungie could do plot, even if Destiny at launch sparked some awkward questions about that. And there’s never been any doubt that wonderfully tactile action and beautiful landscapes are the studio’s greatest strengths. Talk about Bungie games for any length of time and someone will bring up the skyboxes – the vast, gorgeous scenery that sits on the edge of the game world, showing the rings of Halo curving up to infinity, or the towering spires of the Vex infestation on Venus rising out of the earth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of Halo 3’s skyboxes, showing an unfinished Halo installation. Photograph: BungieThe director of Rise of Iron, Chris Barrett, got his start in the studio on the art team, and can still remember his last skybox, in Halo 2: “it looked out over all of inside the Covenant ship, and it had a Forerunner thing in the middle… it’s about being able to stand in the world and look around. We can make it feel like a painting, you know, we can extend the image beyond just the gameplay space into something bigger and grander. I think that’s definitely something we’ve always tried to do.”Those strengths gave the basis for Destiny’s success. But what no one, not even Bungie, knew is whether or not they could build a game that mixed that essence with the loot-collecting mechanics of a game like Diablo and the massively-multiplayer side of an RPG like World of Warcraft.Most frustrating to players was the fact that Bungie seemed to be repeating the mistakes of earlier games, blundering through the same process of trial and error rather than learning from those who came before. When the game launched, for instance, enemies dropped “engrams”: coloured baubles which could be opened to receive weapons and armour. The rarer the engram, the rarer the loot contained within – sometimes. Initially, the rarest engrams, dubbed legendary, would occasionally contain garbage. It was clearly intended to heighten the excitement of seeing what the engram contained, but felt to players like a slap in the face, as their glee at finding a rare item was ripped away from them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A screenshot from Destiny: Rise of Iron. Photograph: BungieSimilar problems abounded. The first raid – a co-op activity where a group of people team up online to take on massive enemies – which launched shortly after the game itself, dropped items which could only be upgraded by re-running the raid, tearing the dropped weapons apart, and using their pieces to upgrade the first items. Again, the intent was clear: offer players some compensation for earning duplicate weapons. But it also led to a deeply unsatisfying loop, where scoring a new piece of armour just meant more work earning the same item three or four times until you managed to gain enough resources to level it up so it was better than the old one.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Hive Ogre in chains. Photograph: Bungie“You always can learn from prior art,” agrees Barnes. He points out that Bungie weren’t total novices to the area, with their fifth and final Halo game, Reach, having a fairly intricate progression system for player-versus-player combat. “We’ve seen other games. We’re avid gamers, you know: a lot of World of Warcraft. I mean, it’s been around a long time. There’s a lot of lessons to learn from that space.”The Kotaku article detailing Destiny’s early woes even claims explicit instruction was drawn from Warcraft creator Blizzard’s 2009 game Diablo 3, shortly after Destiny’s initial release. Blizzard, who are part of the same corporate family as Destiny’s publisher’s Activision, went to Bellevue to share their own tale of launching a commercially successful but critically shaky game.Nonetheless, Bungie had to work out a system that worked for its own unique game. “The first version of the player progression was in Excel,” Barnes says. “Jason [Jones, design lead] coded a whole bunch of algorithms and, you know, gear-to-player permutations to model, like, ‘What would be the player experience after 30 minutes? What would be the player experience after five weeks? What would be the player experience after six months?’”But spreadsheets couldn’t predict every aspect of player behaviour. Most famously, the team failed to spot an exploit that became known as the “loot cave”: players, standing in a particular spot, could shoot at a never-ending stream of enemies, and collect astronomical quantities of gear in a short period of time. It was a funny quirk of an evolving game, and the cave has entered Destiny lore, but it was also fairly damning. After all, what did it say about the game that players would rather stand in the same place shooting bullets into a hole for hours on end than actually play the game as it was intended?The loot cave was easy to fix, but the broader problems of the in-game economy (killing enemies, getting guns, levelling up the guns to kill more enemies, to get more guns, etc) – what Barnes calls the “investment game” – took a while longer. Today, he says, “it’s wrong to say that the original investment game isn’t there. It’s just evolved. On the surface it’s probably unrecognisable, but there’s key systems that continue to persist.”Barrett adds that the experience on Halo helped a lot. “We definitely have got a great foundation there, but the specifics of how the economy works or the drop rates or the mechanics of Nightfall (a particularly hard co-op mode) and things like that are something we’re always looking at.”Tweak, tweak and tweak again.The story of the first two years of Destiny has been one of constant refinement. “I think it’s fair to say that after we released the first game we were very anxious and very fast to make some changes to make improvements, because we learnt a great deal very quickly from being in the wild”, Barnes says.Now, though, the pace of those changes should be declining. The team has learned what works and what doesn’t – even if some of those lessons may have seemed obvious to gamers with a decade’s experience on game such as World of Warcraft and Diablo. “We have a greater understanding of the game two years after the fact, and we don’t have to make such reactionary changes,” says Barnes. “I’m sure when we do a major release there will still be some major reaction that we’re gonna want to participate [in], but I don’t imagine it being on the same scale.”Barrett feels that the team now has the breathing room to address the smaller issues, moving from firefighting to the polishing that distinguishes the best Bungie games from its competition. And, of course, more stuff. “There were some things that, once we have millions of people playing it, are easy to iron out. But I think the game is in a pretty solid state that way, and what players really want is more and more content.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rise of Iron TrailerWith Rise of Iron, Destiny moves into a brief period of stability in its first phase of life. Following the third expansion, the Taken King, Bungie moved from a period of regular DLC packs to a more fluid schedule of live events, smaller updates and the occasional large expansion pack, and it has now settled into a rhythm that most players seem OK with – occasional content droughts notwithstanding.And then, in a year or so, it will start all over again. The existence of Destiny 2 has been confirmed, but little else is known about the game. One thing that is known, though, is that for once, Bungie has very few other examples to learn from. The number of successful MMO sequels can be counted on one hand, thanks to the inherent difficulties of the form: do you close the previous game? Can characters be carried over? How do new players enter on a level playing field if so? What do old players get for their years of service if not?Since the launch of Destiny, Bungie has grown into a machine built to answer these questions, and more. Six hundred people now work for the company, all with a single-minded focus on making more of Destiny. Over the equivalent period of Halo’s lifespan, the company had gone from being a small Mac-focused games company to the jewel in the crown of Microsoft’s console division. Who knows where it will be by the end of Destiny’s run at the top?Destiny: The Taken King review: finally, the game it should have been