Until this week it is doubtful that anyone in New Zealand had heard of the north London comprehensive Acland Burghley, let alone cared about its 50th anniversary. Yet, surprisingly, the story of our petition, signed by around 100 former students, to disinvite the actor Damian Lewis from appearing at the celebrations gathered international traction, and on Wednesday we were invited on to Radio New Zealand. Apparently we have reignited “class war”.Our argument was that a 50th anniversary event should celebrate what made the school we loved great. Damian Lewis is a fine actor and – according to the many people who have tweeted or blogged about this – a very nice man. He was, however, educated at an exclusive prep school and then Eton, which now charges about £35,000 in fees a year. As such, he was an incongruous choice to celebrate a diverse and politically engaged local comprehensive.Damian Lewis says protests over his role in school celebrations 'miss the point' Commentators have suggested that we shouldn’t “blame Damian Lewis” for choices his parents made about where to educate him. We agree. We don’t blame him for going to Eton. Moreover, we are sure that he learned lots of amazing things while there. This is beside the point. We are not critical of him as an individual, although we are disappointed that he has not taken the opportunity provided to make an explicit statement in support of a more inclusive education than he himself experienced.Others have suggested that we are “political” and that we hate Eton and anyone who went there. We have stated that Eton, and other exclusive public schools, reproduce privilege and inequality (notwithstanding the award of scholarships to a few less well-off, academically able pupils). And, yes, we are against this. Not because we are “chippy, moronic gits” (thank you, Twitter), but because we do not see the social benefit of a two-tier education system that provides a small minority with vastly more opportunities than the rest.More importantly, we are strongly supportive of comprehensive education. Not as a second best, but as a way of providing an excellent education for all. This is, increasingly, a political position. It is one that rejects the idea that a “good” education requires you pay for it and recognises the advantages of learning with, and from, others in our community. Not least because this is the only way to achieve the cohesion our (often Eton-educated) politicians claim to desire.A couple of days ago we started a #RealBurghley Twitter hashtag to identify what people thought made our old school so special and what they believed were its values. The following is our contribution:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We are not critical of Damian Lewis as an individual, although we are disappointed that he has not taken the opportunity provided to make an explicit statement in support of a more inclusive education than he himself experienced.’ Photograph: Digital Focus/Splash News/CorbisAcland Burghley was, and still is, renowned for nurturing creativity. For 35 years, Joe Kusner who ran the art department saw potential in every student. He created “environments” in his art room to inspire our imagination, transforming it into mystical landscapes, such as a prehistoric cave, complete with stalactites and stalagmites, stone carvings and eerie lighting. We went to art club after school: a safe place where we could draw, paint, create, do some homework or just hang out.Drama was brilliant too. Celia Greenwood, recently cited by former Burghley pupil Ms Dynamite as her inspiration, established WAC (Weekend Arts College). WAC engaged young people who didn’t have other places they could express themselves and feel valued. Many Burghley students have gone on to successful music, dance and acting careers.It wasn’t all about the arts. Len Harber was a science technician when we were at Burghley. In the evenings he ran basketball sessions and every morning he opened up the gym before school for us to practise. Burghley school teams were made up of boys and girls. Yet we never played another team that included girls. All-male oppositions arrived, looked confused and not infrequently mumbled sexist comments. When they did, boys from Burghley called them out. Being Burghley was being anti-sexist and not accepting the status quo.That confidence that we could challenge inequality, whether it was in basketball, in the arts, in our own lives – that confidence that the world could be different and that we could all play our part – that was and is #RealBurghley. That is why it’s important to fight to remember, and to loudly celebrate and to strengthen, not just Acland Burghley, but comprehensive education.