George Osborne and Yuval Noah Harari meet in late October (before the US election) at Osborne’s office in Portcullis House, both 300 yards and a million miles away from his old digs at 11 Downing Street.Harari is an Israeli historian, feted by the likes of Bill Gates and Barack Obama for his book Sapiens, a sweeping history of humanity, published in Hebrew in 2011 and in English in 2014. In his new book, Homo Deus: A Brief History Of Tomorrow, he switches his gaze from our past to our future, and reaches some unsettling conclusions. In his Guardian review, David Runciman called it a “spellbinding book” with a “simple but chilling” idea at its heart: that “human nature will be transformed in the 21st century, because intelligence is uncoupling from consciousness”. The worst-case scenario, Harari warns, is a world in which a superhuman elite strides away from what we have always thought of as binding us together, while a vast “useless class” languishes below, at the mercy of their new robot overlords. In his view, we are not thinking hard enough about this danger, sated as we are with other manifestations of change. “Modernity is a deal,” he writes. “The entire contract can be summarised in a single phrase: humans agree to give up meaning in exchange for power.”CarouselOsborne, for his part, has recently made the opposite bargain; he seems chastened and liberated at the same time. Even in his provisional new quarters, he retains the languid authority conferred by background and position. In conversation, he is the more animated of the two; Harari maintains an affable calm, despite his apocalyptic subject. The historian meditates for two hours every day; the next morning, he will head to Hereford for a 45-day silent retreat. He does this every year. “Forty-five days?” Osborne repeats, incredulous. “I’ve got a lot to learn.”George Osborne The Guardian came to me and said, “Who is it that you haven’t met that you would like to talk to?” And your name leapt out. I think the way you are able to take very complicated ideas and synthesise them into straightforward arguments appeals to me as a politician. Because I think politics, at its best, is trying to take a complex idea and make it straightforward.Yuval Noah Harari For me, it was a very attractive suggestion, because I know what scholars and academics are thinking, but it’s very hard to know what politicians are thinking. And I have this idea that probably people in power know these secrets about the world. I had a huge disappointment a while ago, when I went to a meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu and a couple of other people, and nobody said anything interesting. No big secrets.GO Did he smoke a cigar? He’s normally got a big cigar.YNH Really? Oh. No, he didn’t.GO I’m afraid on the secrets side government can be a bit disappointing. I kept wondering what was going to be in that famous hangar in Area 51, perhaps evidence of alien landings on Earth in the 1950s. I found none of this. Unless they keep the secrets from the politicians as well. Mostly, government is very complicated, large organisations that don’t respond well to immediate orders. As a politician, you’re always trying to wrestle between setting a longer-term goal for what you’re trying to achieve and getting through the next 24 hours. Your books are all about the great sweep of history –YNH Yeah, I don’t have to be elected.GO – about thousands of years. And that’s all very well, but I might have woken up and listened to something on the BBC Today programme which would cause me a massive headache that I’ve got to deal with now.YNH But do you have any time to think about the long term? I mean, long term not in terms of two years, but in 20 years, 50 years? Do you have the mental space to get away from all the hustle and bustle of immediate politics and try to envision where the country will be, where mankind will be in 30 years?GO You get some time. I mean, the job I was doing until recently as chancellor of the exchequer, you are basically operating at close to 100% from six in the morning until midnight. I tried to carve out space to think about things.YNH Are people in government familiar with what’s happening with artificial intelligence? And are they concerned about the potential impact of AI, let’s say, on the job market in 30 or 40 years? Does it come up?GO Well, the truth is, far too little. I mean, I tried actually to get the conversation going about artificial intelligence. There was that immediate economic concern, and then the broader interest of what it’s going to mean for certain professions. I am a bit of an optimist, in the sense that I always think governments are very good at predicting what job is going to disappear, but they’re not very good at predicting what job is going to be created.YNH Or if they will be created. Humans have two kinds of abilities, physical and cognitive. And, so far, the machines competed mainly in the physical abilities. So what you saw over the last century or two is kind of a migration of people from jobs that require mainly physical abilities, like agriculture and heavy industry, to jobs that require mainly cognitive abilities. Now we are seeing that the machines are starting to compete with us, and outperform us, in cognitive abilities. And we don’t know of any third kind of ability that people have. The world is too complicated to be managed by a few billionaires drinking scotch Do you think people are still able to process the immense amounts of information circulating now, and do it fast enough to make sense of their lives? One of my main fears is that homo sapiens are simply not up to the task. Censorship no longer works by hiding information from you; censorship works by flooding you with immense amounts of misinformation, of irrelevant information, of funny cat videos, until you’re just unable to focus.GO: Life would be quite dull without the odd funny cat video. I take your argument, the fact that the human brain is no longer the fastest processor on the planet. I agree with you about some of your concerns. Often you’re not having your prejudices challenged. People used to sit down and watch the network news which, whatever its bias, at least was trying to provide a national conversation. Now you’ve got a concern, or a prejudice, and the media you’re consuming echoes it back to you. But I guess I’m not quite as pessimistic. We’re more than just data-processing machines.YNH Yes, but when you look at the risk of what you call populist nationalism, for me, it’s a kind of angry kick from the voters. As a historian, I’m sceptical about conspiracy theories, because the world is far too complicated to be managed by a few billionaires drinking scotch behind some closed doors. But I do think that the voters are correct in sensing that they’re really losing power. And in reaction they give the system an angry kick.Now, I don’t think that by putting Donald Trump into the White House the ordinary voters will regain the ability to understand and control what’s happening in the world. But I think this is the main emotion that drives what you would maybe call irrational behaviour. Otherwise, why do you think there is so much anger among ordinary people? And why do you think these populist tendencies are on the rise?GO Well, first of all, you’re completely right about conspiracy theories. Having been active in British politics for 20 years, it’s almost always, I tell you now, cock-up not conspiracy. Right? It’s almost always a mistake. Then governments try to pretend that they knew what they were doing, or that everyone had actually been talking to each other. Government would much rather you believe it was a conspiracy that went wrong, rather than just a total mistake.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Osborne: ‘It’s largely cock-ups.’ Harari: ‘And do you eventually believe the cock-up?’ Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianYNH That at least someone is in control?GO In my experience, it’s largely cock-ups. But you can’t ever admit that, you know, the person went on the radio and just said the wrong thing. The prime minister’s spokesman has to invent some story that that was always part of the plan.YNH And do you eventually believe the cock-up?GO Yes, and then the whole thing becomes part of the mythology of the government. Instead of just saying, “You know what? They screwed up, I’m sorry, they weren’t supposed to answer it like that, that’s not our plan and it never was.” In politics, you’re always trying to fit something into the story.As for populism, the interesting question for me is, as you point out in your writing, people have never been better off, they’ve never been healthier, they’ve never had longer life expectancy, their chances of dying of disease or violence have never been lower.YNH So why are people angry?GO The system in a narrow sense is delivering for people. Why are people feeling disempowered? There was the slogan in the Brexit referendum by my political opponents, you know, “Take Back Control” – but it’s not clear to me that they ever had that control that is being talked about. And, actually, what that control means. Is it that, in the case of the EU referendum, suddenly the British government is going to be in charge of the plastic toy regulations instead of Brussels, and somehow that’s going to make the voter in Doncaster feel more in control of their country? When you could argue that actually, through working together with other nations, a country the size of the United Kingdom might be able to exercise more control over its destiny in the world. So I completely understand and respect the fact that feeling is out there, but I’m not sure the answer is to erect barriers to try to prevent cooperation.YNH What went wrong? If you look at “the end of history” moment of 1989 [Francis Fukuyama’s theory that the end of the cold war marked the victory of liberal democracy], it was: democracy has won, the free market won, the US and its allies could do basically anything they wanted in the world. So what went wrong, from that moment of victory to the dire situation we find ourself in today? For the first 90% of your books, I’ve got a big smile on my face ­– and then you depress me GO Well, maybe it’s both a great thing to celebrate and a curse of humankind: we’re not always happy with our condition, we’re always searching for some kind of meaning. And sometimes the meaning is provided by the nationalist leader who is trying to restore the power of mother Russia, or the religious leader who promises jihad. You know, people are very willing, it seems, to give up their prosperity and their security in pursuit of a vision.YNH And are they wrong to do it?GO Well, I’m not saying they’re wrong, but it can often… they should at least be aware that it quite often leads to a pretty unpleasant ending.When I read your books, for the first 90% of the book I’ve got a big smile on my face about human achievement, then you always depress me in the last 10%. We’re going to hell in a handcart.YNH I think maybe it’s also a generational thing or an age thing. I’m now 40, so I’m very much aware of it: change becomes more and more scary.GO I’m 45, depressingly.YNH Certainly by the time you’re 45.GO See what I mean? The first bit is fine, it’s always the last bit where things go wrong. [They laugh.]YNH No, I’m not saying that the last bit is the bad part. It’s very, very difficult to reinvent yourself when you’re 40 or 50, whether you are a taxi driver who now needs to become a web designer, or anything else. It just becomes more difficult and more scary.GO I’m going to try not to say, “I’m 45 and I’m going to spend the next 30 years talking about what I did between the ages of 35 and 45.” You know, write political memoirs about it and go around giving speeches about it. Actually, try to say, “OK, I’ve got a huge amount of experience in being at the forefront of a British government. Now let’s go and apply that experience and that knowledge to find out what is going on in science, or in artificial intelligence.” You know, if people are living longer, they can’t have it all over by the time they’re 40, otherwise they’re going to spend many decades looking at the equivalent of an iPhone photo album.YNH There is one thing about your experience in the last 10 years that is extremely relevant to where humankind is heading to, and I want to hear your opinion of it, which is the whole issue of privacy, and of living life when everything you say may be recorded. I mean, how did you manage to live in a situation when you are completely exposed and almost without privacy?GO It’s a very good question. I always accepted that, going into politics and being on the frontline of British politics, you give up a huge amount of privacy. I was on a family holiday this summer in Vietnam, and someone took a photograph of me firing a machine gun in the Vietcong tunnels outside of Ho Chi Minh. It was on the front page of the British newspapers the next morning. And I only found out about it because it flashed up on my phone. So you accept that intrusion.But people who are teenagers, like my children, I think probably have a different view of privacy. They’re very used to sharing a huge amount with a network of friends. And in some way I think that is – and you’re the historian here – for me that is in some ways a return to a past. For most of human existence, you could never really escape who you were because you were in a village and everyone knew you and everyone knew your parents and that was your life. And everything you did was observed and commented on and had to fit within the rules of the village, or else you were outcast. I think it’s an age thing: change becomes more and more scary Then you had a period of human history with this essentially anonymous industrial society. You moved to a big city where you can walk around the streets and no one knows who you are. And maybe we’re returning to a world where everyone knows what you’re up to, and nothing is secret again. Privacy is quite a modern concept in history.YNH That’s definitely true. But there’s one huge difference, which is that previously everyone who knew who you were and what you did and what you thought were your intimate community; in the tribe, in the village. Today, it’s Apple and Amazon and WikiLeaks. And they are not your intimate community. In politics, how do you even think or communicate, when you know that every email you write may end up on WikiLeaks, or every time you have a conversation, somebody may be recording?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Harari: ‘There is a price, which is also paid by politicians: you’re a brand.’ Osborne: ‘You’re only partly in control of that identity.’ Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianGO Well, we’ll see what the outcome of the presidential election is, but no one thinks that there’s been a particularly inspiring Hillary Clinton campaign. And I think it’s partly because that whole world of the guarded comment, the 20-second soundbite, the heavily researched political slogan from a focus group that is then delivered in the attack ad on television, is looking a bit tired and jaded. And I think the public have got wise to it. Donald Trump, when he tweets at three in the morning… I mean, whatever you think of it, it’s authentic in the sense that it’s definitely him, rather than, you know, 500 campaign consultants.YNH I became famous as a historian and as an author, so I have the privilege of saying and writing what I want. But even so there is a price, which is also paid by politicians: you’re kind of a brand and you live a double life. And you can’t even resign.GO That is true. I mean, I found this as someone who was talked about on the front page of newspapers every day, that you’re only partly in control of that identity. That identity is also formed by what other people think of you and how other people see you. And, by the way, some of that might be teaching you something about yourself. I think if you always think of it as, “There’s a real me here, and then there’s this other character, the George Osborne who’s on the newspapers or on the TV, and he’s separate from me” – I think that can be a bit self-deceptive. There is a truth there as well, in the identity created for you by other people. You can try to change it, and you can try to respond to it, but there is an element of reality.YNH So what did you learn? What new things did you learn about yourself, thanks to this mechanism that you just described?GO Well, I think, my preoccupation was to show that I was on top of the job. I became the finance minister when I was 38, so there was, in my mind, a particular concern to show people that this young man could do the job. And certainly over six years of doing the job I came to understand – but maybe not enough – that I also had to go and explain what I was doing. And I had to go and listen to people who did not think that I was doing the right thing.It’s very easy, particularly in political jobs, essentially to shut the door and say, “Well, I don’t care what people think of me, I’m just going to do what I think is the right thing and I’m going to get on with it.” But you’ve got to pay some attention to what people are saying. I got myself into, around 2012, 2013, a sort of hole: shut in my room, didn’t go out, wasn’t popular in the country, and then I forced myself to get out there and talk to people and listen to people.YNH Did you ever look in the mirror and say, “Yes, they’re right. I never thought about it, but I’m actually like this… Or my personality is actually like that, but I never realised before.”GO Yes, definitely. I think the image I was projecting consciously was perhaps too hard, it was too… I wasn’t showing enough vulnerability and acceptance that I was getting things wrong. Of course you’re not going to get all these decisions right, and you know that. But the last thing you want to do is admit you got something wrong, because that’s the only story you’re going to hear.I’ve just been on the losing side of a referendum. And the wrong response would be to say, “Well, the people have just made a mistake and I’m wiping my hands of that – I’m off.” I think it’s better to say, instead, “Why do the people think like this? What did I get wrong?” Not, “What did they get wrong?” And I don’t have the answers to that yet. I’m trying to find the answers now.• This conversation has been condensed as part of the editing process.