My granddaughter has departed for a holiday in the country, and I am left in charge of her two gerbils. They live in a gerbilarium, a two-storey box full of the gear they need to eat, sleep and run. They run, one at a time, in a wheel that rattles. Gerbil Gables, as I call their dwelling, sits in a corner of my kitchen, near the doors to my garden. As I write this, I can hear the rattling wheel.Gerbils rate high for cuteness. I am reminded of the ultra-little Philippine tarsier, except that the tarsier spends most of the time sleeping instead of running. Generally, I have always been suspicious of cuteness. In the Hermitage in Leningrad in 1976, I saw a tiny silver Fabergé train that had been presented to one of the children of the tsar. It looked too precious to play with. Delicacy can be overdone. If gerbils slept like tarsiers, I would like them less. As things are, these two might as well be on nandralone: they pound that wheel until it threatens to disintegrate. One minds cuteness less if it hangs tough.But tough cuteness must be credible. In the movies, it hardly ever is. Watching the lovely Elizabeth Debicki in The Night Manager, I just knew that she would end up getting tortured. It had to happen so that we would finally believe that Hugh Laurie was evil, and not just a friend of Stephen Fry. But the torture inflicted nothing except a tiny mark just below her cheek. One recalls how, in Salt, Angelina Jolie emerged from ages of North Korean torture with a slightly split upper lip.Clive James: ‘In my condition, you have to go on throwing a double six just to stay in the game’ I am reading Pride And Prejudice again. It gets better every time. Because her elder sister Jane is billed as being so pretty, we tend to think of Elizabeth as dowdy, even though the author specifically says that she is not. But there can be no doubt about why Darcy goes for Elizabeth. She has the gift of precise speech. The author, however, doesn’t overdo Elizabeth’s intelligence. For a crucial while, Elizabeth believes Wickham. She and Jane have a DMC on the subject. (I’m told that for the young ladies of our district, this is the new shorthand for a Deep Meaningful Chat.) “Besides, there was truth in his looks.” She has been fooled by Wickham’s charm.Darcy, whom Elizabeth spends half the book fighting not to love, spends no time trying to be charming; that’s his charm. Though his undoubted cuteness impresses all women, it is his taciturnity that impresses Elizabeth. In pulling off this coup – a leading man who speaks with silence – Jane Austen invented Gary Cooper, or should I say Viggo Mortensen? The wheel is rattling.