When Jenni Murray announced that a dog named Taliban was running through her dreams, playwright Anna Jordan realised her life was about to change. It was 2013 and the night of the Bruntwood prize ceremony at the Royal Exchange in Manchester, for which Jordan had entered her drama Yen: a raw, poetic study of two teenage brothers and their provocatively named alsatian.“Dame Jenni was the chair of the judges,” Jordan remembers. “As soon as she said she’d been dreaming of Taliban, I gripped my boyfriend’s hand and thought, ‘Oh my God, this is it.’”Yen five-star review – brutal but tender study of brotherhood Yen received ecstatic reviews when it was first shown in Manchester a year ago. Now the 36-year-old writer is attending rehearsals at the Royal Court in London, where the production is being remountedby director Ned Bennett with the original cast. “It was a joy having the play produced in Manchester, but I’m a London girl,” says Jordan. “In many ways, it feels like it’s coming home.”Taliban was a real animal, believe it or not. “I used to live in a flat in Hounslow with all sorts of problem neighbours. There was a woman in her 60s who had a boyfriend half her age and this enormous alsatian they hardly let out of the house. You could hear them through the walls going, ‘Oi! Shut it, Taliban!’ And I thought, I ought to put that in a play some day.”Murray praised “the beautiful empathy and humanity” of Jordan’s writing and there is a heart-melting tenderness in the play’s depiction of extreme poverty. “It did worry me that pitching the audience into such a hardcore situation might run the risk of turning people off,” Jordan admits. Yen was quite instinctual. “It came from a time when I was writing in coffee shops and absolutely no one was waiting for this play. The challenge I set myself was to explore the most taboo subject I could possibly imagine.” What can we realistically expect from children whose opportunities and experience of life are so limited? The initial spark was a news report about a couple of boys who had been abandoned by their mother and convicted of a violent sex crime. “What these children had done was abhorrent,” Jordan says, “but I tried to imagine the situation as fully as possible. These kids don’t go to school, there are no responsible adults around and they don’t have any real friends. They come from a generation that cannot remember a time before violent video games and free access to 24-hour porn on the internet. What can we realistically expect from children whose opportunities and experience of life are so limited?” Jordan is quick to point out that Yen is a work of imagination. Her own childhood was far removed from that of Bobbie and Hench, the brothers in the play. If anything, she feels closer to their eventual saviour, Jen, a compassionate young animal-lover who tames the boys and finally lets Taliban off the leash. “Though I’m more of a cat person,” she clarifies. “I grew up in Brentford, close to Feltham where the play is set – but a bit nicer.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Heart-melting tenderness’ … Jake Davies, Annes Elwy and Alex Austin in Yen at the Royal Exchange, Manchester. Photograph: Jonathan KeenanJordan seemed destined for a life in the theatre – both her mother and father are actors – but her backstage upbringing didn’t make it any easier when she graduated from drama school and struggled to find work. The lack of offers prompted her to co-found her own theatre company, Without A Paddlewith her friend Charlie Swallow, while holding down a day job licensing fruit machines in Hounslow. A decade spent honing her craft on the fringe finally paid off in 2014 when Jordan had two plays, Chicken Shop and Freak, running in London simultaneously. “There’s an obsession with discovering young, debut writers that carries an unrealistic burden of expectation,” Jordan says. “Even though winning the Bruntwood opened all sorts of doors, I’m hopefully a lot more level-headed about it than I would have been 10 years ago. Yen isn’t my first play, but my seventh or eighth full-length piece.” With a further commission from the Royal Court on the table, Jordan is currently throwing her energies into establishing a new, low-cost training programme for actors at the Hackney Showroom. She also has various projects in development at the BBC. Though she regards theatre as her natural home – Jim Cartwright, Simon Stephens, David Eldridge, Sarah Kane count among her favourite writers – Jordan’s first and greatest inspiration was John Sullivan’s Only Fools and Horses.“The rhythms of his dialogue and the pathos of the comedy are just peerless,” she says. “I’m probably just a little bit obsessed. If you look, there’s a gag lifted from Only Fools somewhere in all my plays. I met my boyfriend because he posed an Only Fools trivia question as an ice-breaker. We even had a cat called Boycie, but we lost him.”I express sympathy and ask if the animal was very old? “No, I mean he wandered off. But he was chipped, and I keep thinking that any day now he’s going to have a terrible accident and someone will bring him back with a massive vet’s bill. In which case, I’m going to need to win another playwriting competition.”Yen is at the Royal Court, London, until 13 February.