Channel 4 is seriously feeling the heat now, and it has to stay in the kitchen. In the week when it launched a hit called National Treasure (its title ironically applying to an unpleasant TV star played by Robbie Coltrane), it now faces the task of rebuilding another hit show without the woman who newspapers describe without irony as a national treasure. Although Paul Hollywood has signed up for three years on Channel 4, what the broadcaster currently possesses – after paying £25m to Love Productions for the right to show The Great British Bake Off – is a big white tent with a Liverpudlian loaf expert in it.Mary Berry to leave Bake Off – but Paul Hollywood agrees to stay Frantic discussions will already have begun between Love and Channel 4 about which ingredients to add to Hollywood. They will certainly consider making the blue-eyed bread-maker a main host, but, as with Simon Cowell, Hollywood feels more effective as a judge than a frontman. The same applies to Jamie Oliver, already under contract to Channel 4, who expressed a willingness this week to consider one of the Mel and Sue gaps. But Oliver actually seemed most plausible as a straight swap for Hollywood if he had decided to leave.As for the new co-judge: the agents of Delia and Nigella and anyone else who has ever made a flapjack in front of a camera can expect a call. My own hot tip, though, would be Nadiya Hussain, the 2015 GBBO winner, who would bring something new to the table and could be a sparky double-act with Paul.As Channel 4 has generally been ahead of other broadcasters in on-screen diversity, Nadiya’s presence might also help the show feel a more natural fit for the network, which has clearly suffered image-damage from spending so much money on an imported rather than invented format.In that respect, it’s striking that the large newspaper advertisements the broadcaster took this week for National Treasure featured the following statement: “Channel 4 is paid for by advertising and owned by you. Profits go back into delivering our public service remit, including programmes from British producers.” It’s a case of the network protesting too much, directing viewers’ eyes towards a Jimmy Savile-inspired drama that the BBC would never have made rather than to Channel 4’s controversial sticky bun robbery.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Would Nadiya be a sparky new double-act with Paul? Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianThe only hope of Bake Off not becoming a broadcasting equivalent of King Alfred’s cakes, it seems to me, is to use the three gaps in the tent to make the franchise Channel 4’s own. Imagine Adam Hills from The Last Leg co-presenting with Kirstie Allsopp from Location, Location, Location, alongside Paul and Nadiya as the experts. Such a lineup might be worth watching, although the odds now feel strongly against the new Bake Off, as they always did with the BBC’s post-Clarkson Top Gear.The BBC now face a reverse of the Top Gear problem. There, they retained the format but lost the talent. With Bake Off, the show has gone but three quarters of the star presenters remain. Should the Corporation create a new making or baking show for Mel, Sue, Mary and some other alpha male?  The difficulty is that, especially after reports of previous legal objections from Love Productions to other Bake Off-like ideas on the BBC, the launch of any new series such as The Big UK Cake Test would send lawyers into overdrive. As counsel tussled over whether the tent and the “gingham altar” were copyrightable, the BBC could end up with a show that contained nothing of Bake Off but a trio of TV faces. Whatever happens, GBBO fans will hope that the BBC repays the loyalty Berry, Giedroyc and Perkins have declared, and does not drop them like a burned scone if their first projects away from the mega-hit fail to repeat its success. However, the Bake Off shake-down has now left the unusual combination of a triumphant loser (the BBC) and a sore winner (Channel 4). They say it’s better to be inside the tent pissing out than outside the tent pissing in. Love Productions would never have expected three of its star baking quartet to be outside the tent.