Lidl, Asda, Aldi and Iceland have now cut the cost of milk to 89p for four pints, making milk cheaper than most mineral water. This is astonishing, given that milk is a food that is the end product of a slow, costly, and, hopefully, careful process of rearing animals and their fodder. No wonder the British dairy industry is now looking at ruin.Asda claims that, in making this recent price reduction, it is continuing to pay producers the same price, taking the loss itself to get customers through its doors. But as farming costs have risen over the last year, the prices paid to dairy producers have been held down. As the new mantra for shoppers has become “give us food as cheap as Lidl”, milk has been a key weapon in the resulting supermarket price wars.In recent years, few have criticised this “Lidlisation” of the shopping experience. On the contrary, many have embraced these cut-price continental outlets with open arms. The media has carried articles about the “middle classes” converting to Aldi and Lidl . “Posh” journalists have been sent out to crow over the food bargains found there. This Christmas, numerous articles talked about the half-price lobsters and turkeys to be found there, while Lidl even hosted a pop-up restaurant in Shoreditch to convince shoppers that luxury food was cheap.Whatever these articles said, it’s hard to disguise that the shopping experience of Lidl is a bit cheap and not cheerful. Functional would best describe it – and random, if you consider the occasional sales of trombones and horse blankets. But leaving aside the experience, why should anyone object to food getting cheaper? The answer is simple: producing decent food isn’t cheap. It can’t be. Because if you want decent food, it involves treating animals well, raising them in the open air and using farming practices that are sustainable and don’t destroy the environment. This costs money.If low-cost supermarkets continue to hold down milk prices, the end will come swiftly for producers providing milk according to those principles. We will lose the smaller milk producers and the sight of grass-fed cows in our countryside.In America most milk is supplied by massive industrial units (I would never call them farms) where thousands of cows are kept inside all year. Consequently you rarely, if ever, see grass-fed dairy cows in fields. The only cattle seen occasionally are groups of bullocks being raised together for slaughter. That’s the way our dairy industry will have to go to keep it cheap. That, or milk will be imported from abroad, from places where the animals and environment are less well-tended and labour is cheap.This is not a new argument. Fifteen years ago, British apple growers were at risk of extinction in the way dairy farmers are now. They were unable to compete with the cheap apples imported from abroad which the supermarkets bought in preference and used to keep the prices they paid to British growers low. Environmentalists and farmers joined forces to push British supermarkets to buy local and to give fairer prices rather than importing cheap, less carefully grown produce. In particular, they pushed for supermarkets to recognise – and promote – the value of quality produce, grown with due care to the environment. While the situation is still not perfect, it has improved considerably. More British fruit is available and because customers value it, it gets a better price.It has never been easy convincing the British public of the need to pay more for our food rather than less. It doesn’t come naturally to a nation indoctrinated for so long into the belief that food production should be an increasingly efficient industrial process producing ever cheaper goods. Other nations are better in this regard. Many French people I know are much readier to accept that food expenditure takes up a fairly large part of weekly expenses, an observation borne out in national statistics. The British on average spend 8.9 % of their annual income on food, as opposed to 13.4% in France. The payoff for the French is food of consistently higher quality.The tragedy is that, until this latest round of supermarket wars, many British consumers had begun to accept that if we want decent food, produced in ways we could feel confident about, then we would have to pay a fair price. Now, in the rush for bargain basement food, there’s a danger of going back to square one. But consumers shouldn’t kid themselves: if the shopping experience feels a bit cheap and nasty, ultimately, when the promotions have worn off and the customer loyalty has been won, the product may well be too.