Stories about the declining bee population and its effects on the environment trickle through the news cycle nearly every day. To keep track of the latest bee news and make sense of the issues, we're highlighting the major bee stories each week, with analysis from the Guardian's Alison Benjamin, co-author of A World Without Bees, Bees in the City: The Urban Beekeepers' Handbook and Keeping Bees and Making Honey. Q&AWe've recently launched a Buzzfeeds Q&A. Alison Benjamin will pop in every week and answer your questions, but you're also invited to use the tool to suggest stories for us to include in our weekly round up, and discuss the latest bee-related news with other Guardian readers. Syngenta challenges EU ban on neonicotinoidsWhat happened: Chemical giant Syngenta challenges the European Commission's ban on the neonicotinoid pesticide thiamethoxam. The European Commission ruled in April to ban the pesticide across the continent for two years, along with the neonicotinoids clothianidin and imidacloprid, because of a report by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) that determined certain pesticides pose a "high acute risk" to honey bees.Syngenta says the decision to ban the pesticides was "on the basis of a flawed process, an inaccurate and incomplete assessment by the European Food Safety Authority and without the full support of EU Member States."Key quote: Syngenta Chief Operating Officer, John Atkin, said: 'We would prefer not to take legal action but have no other choice given our firm belief that the commission wrongly linked thiamethoxam to the decline in bee health. In suspending the product, it breached EU pesticide legislation and incorrectly applied the precautionary principle.'Why it matters: Syngenta's action follows chemical giant Bayer, which last month filed a legal challenge against the European Commission's two year ban on its neonicotinoid pesticides, clothianidin and imidacloprid. They claim that according to EU guidelines approved products can only be banned if there is new evidence of their negative effects.Given the billions of dollars these companies are set to lose when the ban goes into effect – and the knock-on effect it could have on their global business – it's hardly surprising that they're mounting legal challenges. Yet much new research has been done since these three neonicitinoids were approved for registration some years ago. And it shows very low levels of exposure to these pesticides compromises bees' immune systems, making them more susceptible to disease and viruses, and reducing their foraging and navigational behaviour.Even if Syngenta and Bayer don't win their case, they could delay the ban for months in court, keeping it from coming into force later this year, as planned. The EPA will be looking on with interest; it's facing legal challenge in the US from environmental groups and beekeepers over the registration of clothianidin and imidacloprid, and a new neonicitinoid pesticide, sulfoxaflor.The stakes involved are huge. Ideally, these legal challenges will raise more awareness to the harm these chemicals do to bees, and in turn, the chemical giants will lose their cases. Then it would make it much harder for the EPA to justify these pesticides' registration, and they would likely be withdrawn from the US.Florida citrus grower that killed millions of bees with pesticide gets $1,500 fineWhat happened:  Earlier this year, the state of Florida found citrus giant Ben Hill Griffin Inc. guilty of breaking pesticide laws twice, causing the deaths of millions of bees. The ruling may have been a victory for beekeepers and environmentalists, but the punishment is nothing short of laughable: a $1,500 fine.Key quote: Every four days, they were spraying seven or eight different types of chemicals," Crystal River beekeeper Randall Foti tells the Palm Beach Post. "A $1,500 fine is not much of a deterrent."That fine pales in comparison to Foti's losses, which he says include $240,000 in honey, not to mention the cost to local ecosystems. Why it matters: This paltry fine sends the wrong message to farmers who flaunt pesticide laws. Illegally spraying pesticides should incur a financial penalty that deters irresponsible behaviour which kills bees and threatens local ecosystems. And the law should change to fit that kind of deterrence. The farmer should also be made to compensate the beekeepers for the loss of bees, pollination services and honey sales. And what about putting a value on ecosystems and making the farmer pay for that as well? Bees are vital for pollinating fruits, vegetables and other crops; it's estimated that commercial beekeeping adds up to almost $16bn in value to US agriculture every year. Pesticides should not be sprayed at certain times of the year, when they can affect bees. Labelling makes this clear, but farmers often ignore it to destroy a particular pest, in this case the Asian citrus psyllid insect. But bees are also insects, and what kills the pest kills the bee if sprayed at the wrong time.Bee health: background and issues for CongressWhat happened: The Congressional Research Service released a 24-page report on bee health. The report is an amalgamation of previous studies on what is responsible for the decimation of the bee population, as well as everything from the basics of bee species to the economic implication of a declining population. While the report is a primer for Congress, it is also a clear, comprehensive and data-heavy read that shows what the government is being told about bees and what policy areas are most-involved with bee health.Key quote: Reasons cited for honey bee population losses include a wide range of possible factors thought to be negatively affecting pollinator species. Potential identified causes include bee pests and disease, diet and nutrition, genetics, habitat loss and other environmental stressors, agricultural pesticides, and beekeeping management issues, as well as the possibility that bees are being negatively affected by cumulative, multiple exposures and/or the interactive effects of several of these factors Why it matters: Congressmen Earl Blumenauer and John Conyers Jr have introduced a Saving America's Pollinators Act, which directs the EPA to suspend the use of bee-toxic pesticides until it can prove they will not cause "unreasonable adverse effects" on pollinators. The bill also requires the Department of the Interior to co-ordinate with the EPA to monitor the health and population of native bees and to annually report to Congress on its findings. The report on bee health has been released by the Congressional Research Service to provide latest information on bee research to members of Congress to help them make an informed decision about whether or not to back this potentially groundbreaking law.Bonus: If you haven't already, check out these incredible photos of giant carpenter bees in Tanzania on National Geographic.