Bare Lit, LondonThe 2016 World Book Night’s all-white author selection prompted Guardian Review to run an article headed “Why haven’t I been invited to the party? Ask the host”. The approach of Bare Lit, the UK’s first festival exclusively for writers of colour, is simple: throw your own. Diversity panels are out the window. Instead the inaugural programme features a discussion of sci-fi and Afrofuturism with Malaysian author Zen Cho, creator of Sorcerer To The Crown, a fantasy novel following England’s “first African Sorcerer Royal”. Other speakers include poet Jane Yeh on the subject of second-generation poets in exile; Kelly Kanayama of Women Write About Comics; and journalist Robin Yassin-Kassab on his forthcoming book about the Syrian revolution. The breadth of the programme is very much the point. Organiser Media Diversified is out to give writers from BAME backgrounds the platform they deserve, and to show that when they are invited to the party, it shouldn’t be to tick one solitary box.Betsey Trotwood, EC1 & Free Word Centre, EC1, Sat & SunBTAn Evening With Jasmine And Melissa Hemsley, On tourEating clean has become so ubiquitous recently that even lard-loving Nigella Lawson peppered her TV comeback with chia seeds and nods to veganism. Along with blogger “Deliciously” Ella Woodward, sprightly sisters Jasmine and Melissa Hemsley are in the vanguard of the gluten-free, low-sugar movement. The London duo launched an exclusive meal-delivery service in 2010, bagged their own Vogue column in 2012, and released a cookbook, The Art Of Eating Well, two years later. Now they’re back with a follow-up, Good + Simple, featuring more of their trademark spiralising and bone broths (a totally different thing to stock, obviously). To coincide with its release, they’ll be offering culinary advice and taking part in Q&As. Perfect for those who’d rather roll out a cauliflower pizza than roll their eyes at Instagram-worthy grub.Ghillie Dhu, Edinburgh, Mon; Waterstones, York, Tue; Waterstones, Nottingham, Wed; The MCT at Alleyn’s, SE22, Thu; touring to 10 MarHJDAn Evening With Suzannah Lipscomb: The King Is Dead, CambridgeWhen Henry VIII died in 1547 – bed bound, boil-ridden and sporting a 54-inch waist – he left behind a freshly written last will and testament. The document was meticulous in its plans for the future of the English crown, running through all kinds of options for a half-decent successor. Historians now regard this artefact as one of the most important constitutional documents of the Tudor period. But like any academic worth her salt, Suzannah Lipscomb rejects many of the prevailing orthodoxies surrounding the king’s death. Her talk as part of the Cambridge history festival will be based around her book of last year, The King Is Dead, a re-reading of Henry’s character in his final days which examines the precise circumstances surrounding the drafting of the will. Was it the product of a conspiracy? Expect an original take from the presenter of ITV’s I Never Knew That About Britain.Heffers Bookshop, TueAP