They are overindulgent, overloaded and over here. Freakshakes – an Australian invention – found their way from Canberra to Newcastle (the English one) last year, and they have been multiplying around the UK at a horrendous rate ever since. For the uninitiated, they are milkshakes topped with cream, topped with cake, topped with sauce, with a handful of sweets thrown in for good measure – a monstrous mashup of a drink and dessert. Usually. Although the fact that one Yorkshire restaurant has thrown pulled pork and cheese into the mix suggests we have reached the freakshake tipping point.Most follow a similar formula to the originals from Pâtissez cafe in Canberra: mason jar mugs are filled with milkshake and piled up with goodies that look as striking as possible – because, while they should taste good, the first bite is usually taken by the camera. “The freakshake trend has been a clear example of the influence of social media,” says Olivia Edwards, senior analyst at food trends agency thefoodpeople. She says Instagram “gave them a platform to be seen and desired all around the world … the first thing most people will do is pop a pic on Instagram”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Caramel freakshakes, Sensations cafe, north LondonThis is true at Blue Dogs Kitchen in Cheltenham, says cafe supervisor Marion Corden. Freakshakes went on sale there a couple of months ago and, she says, “it’s very rare that we make one that is not photographed”. It was social media that brought freakshakes to the attention of Maria Michaelides when she opened Molly Bakes cafe in Dalston, east London. “I saw them on Instagram last summer,” she says. “I wanted to try one but Australia was a bit far to go, so I made my own and then I thought: ‘I could sell these.’” She started with salted caramel and has just added cookie dough and cornflakes to the menu – the latter not specifically for early-morning visitors, although she says: “Some people do have freakshakes for breakfast – I can’t get my head around that.”Vedia Glover, of Lilli Oliver Cake Boutique in Manchester, was already making “freakcakes”, so the “big and bold indulgent style” of the shakes appealed to her. She has put a new spin on them, too: “A few customers requested the shake with a coffee, so I developed the ‘freakaccino’ – we add a shot of espresso. This is really popular with peanut butter added to it.”For the standard freakshake, cafes start with an ice-cream milkshake, the edge of the glass is decorated, perhaps with a chocolate ganache or marshmallow fluff; double cream is added (about two inches or 5cm, says Corden); then people generally choose their toppings. Michaelides reckons that there are around 1,500 calories in her creation. Not everyone finishes them, but some do and then some. “You get people who come in for a freakshake and order a cake on top of that – and they don’t even share it,” she says.The phenomenon is a counterpoint to the #eatclean trend, according to Edwards. It’s an outlandish decadence that is a “total rebellion against the pictures of perfection of those pushing hyper-healthy lifestyles that feel completely unattainable,” she says. On the other hand, if you are the Guardian’s restaurant critic Marina O’Loughlin, “they’re revolting, diabetes in a glass, food for the sad and the selfie-obsessed”. You can’t win them all.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Left to right, Emmy, Oscar and Wyn survey their creations. Photograph: Teri Pengilley at the GuardianThey do look like the kind of thing a six-year-old would dream up, so, with the school holidays nearing their end, I decided to draft in some children and see what they could create. My son Wyn, together with two friends, spent a happy hour piling up ingredients. I never dreamed I would ever find myself shouting “add more chocolate sauce” or “how about another handful of sweets?” at a child, but more is definitely more in this game. There seemed to be very little in the way of creative vision at play: elements were randomly piled on. Some started to sink, despite the dairy foundations, and it became clear why even the posh versions have a kind of oozy look to them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I never dreamed I would ever find myself shouting “add more chocolate sauce” at a child.’ Photograph: Teri Pengilley at the GuardianThe end results won plaudits for looks from the Guardian food columnist Felicity Cloake (who, like O’Loughlin, is not the biggest fan of the trend). “Completely ridiculously over the top, impractical and not designed for human consumption. Perfect freakshake, in other words!”Taste-wise? Well, for the first time in my life, I heard a child declare that something was too sweet. “I think I prefer milkshake and ice-cream: the other bits are a bit much,” admitted Wyn. His friend dashed for the garden, saying he might be sick. The rest of the day was spent riding bikes and eating fruit. Perhaps the national childhood obesity strategy should include this kind of aversion therapy.Wyn’s chocolate freakshakeChocolate milkshake powder or syrupIce cream – we used vanilla (chocolate would be nicer)MilkSquirty creamChocolate brownie bitesSponge cakeCaramel waffleCafe curlChocolate biscuit bites (Maltesers will work)Hundreds and thousandsMini marshmallowsSweets from the cupboardSalted caramel sauceMake the milkshake base, combine with a scoop of ice-cream until you feel you have a good thick consistency and pour into a glass. Top with a layer of squirty cream. Apply sauce liberally around the side of the glass. Pile on cake, biscuits and sweets to taste (and beyond). Add more sauce and a cafe curl. Take a cake and force a straw through it. Add to glass. Photograph and unleash on Instagram. Enjoy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wyn’s freakshake. Photograph: Teri Pengilley for the GuardianTips1. Try to create either a thick milkshake or a layer of cream to prop up the cakes on top – a concealed party ring might do the same job2. When you think you’ve finished, add at least two more slices of cake.3. Have a sundae spoon to help you eat it – a lot sinks to the bottom4. Don’t eat it all on your own. Unless you have an Olympic triathlon planned or have been advised by your doctor to put on weight.