It seems like an awkward conundrum for a photographer: how do you best photograph a group of senior holiday-makers when your subjects are all butt-naked? For Elise Derwin the answer was a actually quite simple: “Go there and nude up!”“They said from the beginning you don’t have to take your clothes off,” she explains, “but as a photographer I really like to make connections with people and I just think if I didn’t take my clothes off and become a nudist like them, how could I make a proper connection with these people?”Derwin’s wonderful series, Nudist Nomads, is one of the standout works on display at this year’s Head On photo festival in Sydney, which opened its major shows at the weekend.Great Australian photographs: Migrants by David Moore – an audio essay Shooting in tandem with a reporter from the NT News, Derwin and her colleague ditched their clothes and visited the group of nudists who’d travelled from around Australia to enjoy the dry season together at a retreat in Northern Territory.“When they saw us walking down the road naked they were like, ‘Ah, girls, good on you, this is great!’ I think it definitely paid off.”Derwin’s images depict everyday holiday scenes, albeit done in the buff: two women enjoying a dip in a pool, breakfast in a caravan, friends sharing a barbecue.Sure, there are nipples and penises and bums aplenty, but what’s much more noticeable is the humour and vibrancy of her images, and the colourful characters within them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A couple go for a walk in the bush. From the series Nudist Nomads. Photograph: Elise Derwin/Head On photo festival“People think nudists are creeps or sickos but they’re not,” she says. “Being a nudist isn’t sexual at all. They’re just really fun people who do everything the same but without their clothes on. “The number one thing about all of them is they have this excellent sense of humour. They don’t take life too seriously.”Derwin’s willingness to bare all was complimented by her witty and subtle camerawork. Through deft compositions and her eye for detail she neatly sidesteps the perils of voyeurism and instead captures the carefree exuberance of her hosts.At times such objects as a beer can and a book are employed to casually obscure the subjects’ genitals, and, even when the nudity is graphic, our eyes are swiftly lured away – in one instance Derwin literally achieves this using a fishing lure. In doing so she successfully gets the viewer to focus on the personalities and to somewhat disregard their nudity, just as she did.The day I got naked for Spencer Tunick “As a photographer you always try to bring out the person’s character,” she says. “It doesn’t matter what they’re doing or what they look like. You just forget about the fact that they’re nude, which doesn’t take long.”Derwin is one of a number of Australians showing work in an altogether exciting edition of Head On festival. It features photographs by more than 600 photographers from 10 counties, and spans a range of exhibition spaces in Paddington, the central business district and the inner east. It has become a polished but diverse festival.The Paddington “hub” includes the local town hall, where Derwin’s work is hung. Alongside it there is a gritty, biographical series, Uncertainties of Life, by Amy Crawley, in which she explores her relationship with her current and former partners as they live together battling drug addiction and mental illness. It’s unfortunate that more of Crawley’s work is not on show.Across the road in Juniper Hall hangs a striking series of beach portraits by Andrew Goldie, his sitters “laid bare”, as he puts it, under the combined glow of his red, angled lighting and the soft evening sunlight. They are staged without being stage-managed, and the personalities of each subject are revealed in quiet, contemplative fashion.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An image from the series Laid Bare by Andrew Goldie.In an adjacent room, the veteran photojournalist Brian Cassey regales readers with his journey from “lousy” football photographer in London to his life and work in Indigenous communities in northern Queensland – it’s a compelling read accompanied by several fine pictures.The festival also welcomes numerous international photographers. The work of Herlinde Koelbl, exhibited outdoors at Paddington Reservoir Gardens, provides an unorthodox critique of war. She travelled the world to photograph targets used by soldiers during shooting practice.It’s startling to see how the enemy is portrayed: sometimes combative, sometimes comedic, sometimes inhuman. At a time when there is a danger of becoming desensitised to the horrors of traditional conflict photography, hers is a provocative take on the subject.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Images from Herlinde Koelbl’s series Targets, on display at Paddington Reservoir Gardens. Photograph: Jonny Weeks for the GuardianOn Saturday night the festival organisers announced the overall winners in each of Head On’s four award categories. None of my favourite works were successful, but, if anything, that’s an indication of how much good photography is on show this year.The winner of this year’s portrait prize, arguably the top award, is certainly worth seeing. It’s a piercing portrait by Cesar Dezfuli of a young West African refugee who was rescued from the Mediterranean Sea. • Head On festival runs until 28 May. For more info visit headon.com.au