[re]Assignment review: gender-switching hitman thriller is staggering misfire Michelle Rodriguez has responded to vehement criticism of her new film [re]Assignment, by defending it as a “culture shock pic” she made to “express my frustration” with the current state of the film industry.After its premiere at Toronto, [re]Assignment attracted hostile reactions for its plotline involving forced gender reassignment surgery: Rodriguez plays a hitman called Frank Kitchen who is kidnapped and undergoes surgery at the hands of a deranged doctor played by Sigourney Weaver. The Guardian’s Benjamin Lee described it as a “film made with such staggering idiocy that it deserves to be studied by future generations for just how and why it ever got made”; while trans activist Elizabeth Marie Rivera has called for a boycott, writing that it contains “a fucked up and twisted ‘transgender’ trope that is being forced down our throat”. Heheheh at TIFF promoting 'TomBoy A Revengers Tale' producers are convinced the new movie title should be re-assignment but I'll stick to the title I signed on to shoot... 'Tomboy'. It's in the B Movie genre, a culture shock pic, shot like a 'film Noir' graphic novel. I played a male assassin for four days in the movie, boy was that beard itchy. Then out revenge, a twisted Doctor played by Sigourney Weaver decides to take my character's manhood away with a sex change to teach him a lesson. I never felt more like a woman than when I played a man. For the rest of the film I was a man stuck in a newly operated sex changed body. I had fake boob covers to look like man implants & I wore a fake hairy 'mangina' which you can't really see cause they made it so hairy. In retrospect I'm I glad took the plunge, the industry seems to be running low on edgy creativity & 'real take a chance' controversy, sometimes it makes me want to scream, instead I did what I always do when I'm bored with the 'status quo', I shot crazy b movie Indy to express my frustration. I wish I had more than a few weeks to prepare for this flic, I would have gained a lot more weight, & we would have made some hairy arms to match my Mediterranean look. I feel that my skinny build sometimes comes off hermaphoditic in the film, especially when you add the crazy male chest for the nude sequences. Lol hope y'all will enjoy the flic sometime, when we sell it of course... It's interesting to say the least.A photo posted by Michelle Rodriguez (@mrodofficial) on Sep 13, 2016 at 2:28pm PDTCalling it by its original title, Tomboy, Rodriguez said in a post on Instagram that she was glad she “took the plunge”. She added: “The industry seems to be running low on edgy creativity & ‘real take a chance’ controversy, sometimes it makes me want to scream, instead I did what I always do when I’m bored with the ‘status quo’, I shot crazy b movie Indy to express my frustration.”Rodriguez also mentioned some of the props she used in her gender transformation, including a beard (“boy was that beard itchy”), “fake boob covers”, “crazy male chest” and a “mangina” – designed to conjure up the illusion that she was a “man stuck in a newly operated sex-changed body”. She wrote: “I never felt more like a woman than when I played a man.”