Last August, at a pop-up bar in a crumbling Edinburgh church-turned-venue, I paid just shy of £30 for two gin and tonics. There was no ice. No lime. And the tonic was your basic plastic litre bottle variety. I’m still upset about it.Inflated prices during August in Edinburgh are nothing new, but over the years I’ve witnessed increasingly opportunistic behaviour from businesses raising the prices of accommodation, show tickets, food and of course booze, to a completely unreasonable level. Let’s not forget the residents who’ll also sublet their box room to a 12-piece avant-garde performance act for £500 a week. Strangely, this seems to be totally accepted by everyone.The business model for the creative industries is broken Now Edinburgh city council and the Edinburgh Cultural Venues Group want to introduce a tourist tax to compensate for cuts to the creative industries and other sectors. The tourist tax would mean £1 to £4 added to an average hotel bill. This number will rise during peak seasons. It’s not much by itself, but it’s the tip of a huge iceberg of costs for people who want to enjoy what are meant to be festivals for everyone.Ironically, the Edinburgh festival fringe (the world’s largest arts festival) was set up on the back of the Edinburgh international festival in 1947 so that anyone could attend and perform, regardless of credentials. Nowadays you’ll need more than a good joke to get through the month while living out of a broom cupboard.It’s believed that a tourist tax in Edinburgh would be one of the first in Britain. Similar levies have already been imposed in other European countries including France, Spain and the Netherlands. This added expense for visitors will supposedly generate an estimated £15m for the economy – but is this extra cost not just another financial hit for tourists and performers staying in the most expensive British city for a mini break?We residents are lucky to rarely be without a culture fix, and festivals all year round mean we don’t need to look far for something new. I’ve been fortunate enough to have been raised around the madness, and I don’t believe that those who want to experience the magic of this city should have to fork out thousands of pounds to do so.Price hikes and costs already hit visitors and residents alike in the summer: my favourite curry joint raises its prices by £4, temporarily making an enemy of me; I can’t skip the country either, as flights/trains returning to Edinburgh in August and September are wickedly expensive, and I’m even suspicious that my coffee has gone up in price.One memorable evening in Old Town, I saw a well-known “budget” hotel advertising a room for £245 for that night. I nearly sacrificed my own bed to save some desperate soul from being so brazenly fleeced.Seeing the staggering daily cost for a visitor makes me empathetic to their cause. If I wasn’t from Edinburgh, I simply couldn’t afford to experience it during August. Even the likes of Airbnb and Gumtree can’t be relied upon for a cheap deal. A quick search reveals that at present it’s easily £200 a night for a room or £6,000 for a five-bed flat for the month, and that’s without any proposed added tax. If I wasn’t from Edinburgh, I simply couldn’t afford to experience it during August Leading Scottish tourism agencies share my fears – VisitScotland and the Scottish Tourism Alliance have expressed concern. VisitScotland has even said that adding a further expense to Edinburgh visitors through the tourist tax could damage one of Scotland’s best-performing industries. The festivals aren’t diminishing in size or credibility so far: 2015 was the biggest year to date, with record ticket sales and hundreds of millions of pounds injected into the economy. Big bucks for a tiny city.Understandably Edinburgh council wants to nurture and protect its famous festivals and put more back into the city, but robbing Peter to pay Paul is not the answer. The festivals can remain ahead of the competition by being accessible to everyone and by not over-pricing goods and services. If costs are kept at a reasonable level, both visitors and residents like me will spend more in general.Edinburgh needs to stop milking tourists for everything they’ve got; it risks losing the very thing that makes it so brilliantly unique – its loyal fan club. And, though I hate to admit it, I’d actually miss those annoyingly enthusiastic dance troupes blocking my way to the pub if they decided that they could no longer afford to come.