Why Soulwax are writing music for imaginary bands Most bands are stuck in a cycle of album, promo, tour, repeat. Not Belgian electronic rock brothers Soulwax, who say they “didn’t work in that system”. Instead, over the last decade, David and Stephen Dewaele have DJed the world’s clubs as 2ManyDJs and indulged “challenging” projects such as the Despacio disco soundsystem with James Murphy. Why be sitting “in a room with your guitar”, says David, when you could be doing all these exciting things.Indeed, it takes a novel concept to motivate Soulwax to make an album these days. Last year’s Belgica, their first since 2005, was an eclectic film soundtrack of imaginary bands. Now, they are releasing From Deewee, an album of songs they honed on tour and then recorded live in just one day. Some bands just muck about in the studio and see what comes out; Soulwax, on the other hand, say they need “a concept and rules” to fuel their creative fire. With that in mind, David dishes five other concept records that they’ve taken inspiration from…      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yamantaka Eye of Japanese cult band Boredoms. Photograph: Maria Jefferis/RedfernsBoredoms review – the Osaka legends play crockery with a fish slice Boredoms: 77 Boa Drum (2008)Japanese noisemongers’ live album with 77 drummers“We have 74 less on From Deewee, but if you’re an electronic band then playing live the energy is so much bigger with a drummer. We thought: ‘Let’s take it further.’ Initially we wanted four drummers but, in a Spinal Tap way, most stages are too small.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neil’s Heavy Concept Album: they mean it, man.Neil: Neil’s Heavy Concept Album (1984)Yes, that Neil, the hippy from The Young Ones“It’s a comedy album, but we like his version of [Traffic’s] Hole in My Shoe and the skits where he’s talking about spilling jam on the grooves and the music goes all muffled. ‘Hello, vegetables!’ That was massive for us.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Singing in the rainforest: Sepultura’s Amazon-inspired Roots album.Sepultura: Roots (1996)Brazil’s thrash metal titans“Sepultura’s Igor Cavalera drums on From Deewee, and we’ve been friends for years. On this album, Sepultura recorded Amazonian tribes and translated those rhythms into their metal.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tantric sax: Pharoah Sanders’ Karma.Pharoah Sanders: Karma (1969)The jazz saxophonist’s journey of self-discovery“Each side is a 30-minute song and we used The Creator Has a Master Plan as a line on From Deewee. If you listen to one spiritual free jazz album this year, make it this one.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spaced invaders: Udo Lindenberg Und Das Panikorchester’s Galaxo Gang.Udo Lindenberg und das Panikorchester: Galaxo Gang (1976)Curveball from German rocker“It’s a loose Ziggy Stardust-like alien story. We love the sounds on it. We did a ‘celestial disco’ hour for Radio Soulwax and the whole first side [alone] could have featured [in it]. It’s amazing.”From Deewee is released on Play It Again Sam on 24 March