From Hollywood to Hollyweed, residents of Los Angeles’s most famous neighbourhood woke up on New Year’s Day to find a prankster had scaled the 45ft letters and, with the help of some tarpaulin drapes, changed the last two “O”s to “E”s. It’s not the first time the Mount Lee sign has been transformed overnight. Other examples include “Hollyweed” (again) in 1976, to mark a relaxation in the state’s marijuana laws, “Ollywood” in 1987, a comment on Oliver North and the Iran-Contra scandal, and “Oil war” in 1990 in protest at the first Gulf war.'Hollyweed': California's Hollywood sign changed in post-election prank For as long as there have been landmarks, there have been people willing to deface them in the name of politics, art, fame or sheer stupidity.Duke of Wellington, Glasgow The longstanding tradition of placing a traffic cone on the head of the equestrian statue in Royal Exchange Square nearly came to an end in 2013 when the city council pledged to stop the practise. It apparently costs £10,000 to remove the cone 100 times a year. A social media campaign to “save Wellington’s cone” gathered thousands of signatures within hours. The cone remains defiant.Golden Gate bridge, San FranciscoOne morning in 2001, the shell of an old red VW Beetle was found dangling from the Golden Gate bridge. A group of Canadian engineering students, who had spent the night laying cable underneath the bridge, took responsibility for the intricate prank.  The beheaded Little Mermaid. Photograph: Terence Spencer/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty ImagesThe Little Mermaid, CopenhagenBased on the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale and more than 100 years old, the statue of the Little Mermaid has been painted, beheaded twice, blown up, and had her right arm sawn off. She has also been draped in a burqa, given a vibrator to hold, and been festooned with a sign reading “Free Pussy Riot”.The Angel of the North, GatesheadIn 1998, Antony Gormley’s monumental sculpture briefly wore a giant replica of Alan Shearer’s Newcastle United shirt. It took 25 United fans, who chipped in £100 each for the shirt, to carry out the prank using fishing line, rubber balls and catapults. The shirt stayed up for 20 minutes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jim Morrison’s grave. Photograph: Rick Colls/REX/ShutterstockWinston Churchill, LondonDuring the May Day demonstrations in London in 2000, the Winston Churchill statue in Parliament Square was defaced by a former soldier who made the wartime leader look as though blood was dripping from his mouth. The statue also temporarily gained a grass mohican crafted out of a strip of turf.Jim Morrison’s grave, ParisThe Doors singer, who died in Paris in 1971 from a suspected drugs overdose, is buried in Père Lachaise cemetery, where his tomb – the most visited in a cemetery where Edith Piaf, Max Ernst and Oscar Wilde are also buried – is routinely covered in graffiti, poems, flowers, candles, alcohol and underwear. It became so renowned for vandalism, with a bust of Morrison stolen in 1988, that security guards were employed to patrol the site.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The blood-red Trevi fountain. Photograph: Christophe Simon/AFP/Getty ImagesTrevi fountain, RomeIn 2007, a man claiming to be an artist from the Italian futurist movement tipped a bucketful of dye into the 18th-century baroque monument and turned its waters a lurid red. It was dubbed “a deplorable act of vandalism, and an offence against Rome” by Anita Ekberg, the actor who famously splashed around in the fountain in La Dolce Vita. 