On Monday, the University Challenge question setters gave you the hardest quiz they could muster. Here are the answers, along with their feedback:1. According to the US novelist Vicki Baum, what institution “always demands the greatest understanding of the art of insincerity possible between two human beings”?• Marriage. Comment: this is easier than most here.2. Observing that “(its) shape, efficiency … and simplicity … is really the endpoint of Cartesian perfection”, of what vehicle did columnist Zoe Williams write: “the perfect clunk-click of symbiosis that people associate with nooky is completely expressed in the relationship (between it and man)”.• Bicycle. Comment: this was given to two very able teams in the latter stages of a competition. Both buzzers-in gave less appealing answers such as “sports car” and “Aston Martin”.3. “Of unexcelled usefulness to historians … (its) intricate realism recorded with the restraint of a Jane Austen and the depth of reflection of a Proust.” These words describe which 11th-century novel, the work of the Japanese princess Murasaki Shikibu?• The Tale of Genji/Genji (Monokatari). Comment: this is especially hard.4. Before Iain Duncan Smith, who was the last Conservative party leader not to fight a general election?• Austen Chamberlain in 1921-22. Comment: this is hard – and we needed both names here, of course.5. Registered as a proprietary name in 1938 in reference to its unprepossessing appearance, which hybrid citrus fruit was first produced in Jamaica by crossing a Seville orange, a grapefruit and a tangerine? • Ugli fruit. Comment: this is less hard than many questions here. 6. What seven-letter word links: an impure metal formed in the smelting of ores, a bright double star in the constellation Leo, and a Roman consul of the Punic wars, held as an example of a patriot who chose virtue over personal expediency?• Regulus. Comment: very hard.7. “(His death) confirms the analysis he made. This text event was unintended by its author and its meaning can only be deciphered by its readers.” These words refer to the death of which academic in 2004? • Jacques Derrida. Comment: this is from a letter to the editor in the Independent. Quotes like this are a question-setter’s dream. 8. In the second millennium of the common era, which century saw the smallest number of reigning monarchs on the throne of England or, after 1707, Great Britain? • The 13th-century, with only three monarchs – John (1199-1216), Henry III (1216-72), Edward I (1272-1307). Comment: much harder than it looks – not many will get this. You were nearly correct if you said the 19th century (four monarchs) or the 12th, 14th and 18th (which all had five monarchs).9. A cenotaph modelled on the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates in Athens, an exact copy of the To-ho Pagoda in Canton and a thatched cottage originally built to house a blind Welsh harper are among structures created by the eccentric 15th Earl of Shrewsbury in the gardens of which country house, now associated with more contemporary amusements? • Alton Towers. Comment: the contestants didn’t get this one.10. The Kannada “vee”, the Cyrillic capital “short ee”, the Japanese Katakana “wa” plus “ee” and the Greek “omega” all appear prominently on which organisation’s logo? • Wikipedia. Comment: a team did get this one. It sounds like a language-geek’s dream, but actually has an easily guessable answer: the kind of question that rewards those who continue to listen even when they hear unappealing terminology.11. What is the lowest positive integer to contain the letter “c” when it is spelled out as a word in English? • Octillion, which is 10 to the 27 in Modern British usage, or 10 to the 48 depending on country and context. Comment: contestants didn’t get this one either. 12. Which figure from the book of Genesis has a name that, when read backwards, becomes a prefix denoting 10 to the power of minus nine?• Onan. Comment: nano backwards, of course. The student who answered correctly gave an embarrassed grin, as if he couldn’t quite reconcile the answer with the show he was appearing on.13. Give any one of the three six-letter anagrams meaning: in Japanese zen, sudden enlightenment; in Greek grammar, the simple past tense and, in mathematics, the magnitudes of quantities relative to one other? • Satori/aorist/ratios. Comment: a team got this one quickly. The second clue makes it easy if you’ve studied Greek. 14. “University Challenge, which I watch every week, is the BBC programme I admire above all others.” This sentence contains examples of two different types of relative clause. Name both. • Non-restrictive and restrictive/non-defining, and defining/non-identifying and identifying. Comment: the Guardian’s David Marsh, a former competitior on UC, inspired this question. 15. Yellow Mountain Fur Peak, Spring Snail, Big Red Robe, Dragon Well and Iron Goddess are among names that appear in Chinese lists of the 10 most notable varieties of what product? • Tea. Comment: the teams didn’t get this one. They answered rice and lychees instead. 16. “Wherever law ends, tyranny begins.” These words begin a proposition by which philosopher, in a work of 1689? • John Locke, from Two Treatises of Government. Comment: a straightforward philosophy question, answered correctly on the show. Included because it’s short and likable.17. With an estimated 80 million speakers, which Austronesian language is often said to be the largest language without an official status? It takes its name from a populous island slightly larger than England. • Javanese. Comment: NOT Java, JavaScript of Japanese, of course. Indonesian is the only official language. The same claim could possibly be made of Wi Chinese, hence the tentative wording. There was a rash intervention when this was asked, with a five-point penalty. The other team didn’t get it when handed over. 18. What day of the week will it be 100 days after Monday?• Wednesday. Comment: 98 can be divided by 7, ie =14, so the 98th day after Monday is Monday again, and add two. 19. In 1970, the Japanese roboticist Masahiro Mori originated what term to describe the theoretical point at which a robot becomes so human-like that it is psychologically unsettling to the observer? The answer is a two-word English term. • Uncanny Valley/Bukumi no Tani Genshō. Comment: an easy 10-pointer. 20. Meaning “said once only”, what two-word Greek term denotes a word or word-form that is recorded only once in a text, in the work of a particular author, or in a body of literature? • Hapax legomenon. Comment: this question has now been said rather more than once, as numerous clips on YouTube will attest. In 2015, Ted Loveday of Caius Cambridge buzzed in correctly just after the word Greek.The 2016 grand final airs tonight at 8pm on BBC2. 