Last year, the actor Paul Freeman borrowed a chapel in the grounds of a friend’s house, lit the building with candles and played a CD of Gregorian plainchant while wearing his wife’s hoodie as a monk’s cowl. He got the part in Da Vinci’s Demons.It may not sound like a traditional audition, but increasingly, performers don’t have to face a hiring squad in a drab room to try and secure a part. They may not even have to leave the house. Actors, directors and casting directors report a growth in the phenomenon of self-taping: actors are asked to film a scene and email it to prospective employers. To get yourself on screen, it seems, you have to first put yourself on screen. “Self-tape has completely swept the field,” says Freeman, whose TV career stretches from Crown Court in the 1970s through New Street Law to the aforementioned fantasy drama. “It’s now so widespread that to meet a director before a shoot is virtually unknown. Indeed, two years ago, when I met with Werner Herzog for a project, I was so overcome with nerves at this unusual occurrence that I more or less froze.” Foreign actors who wanted to crack America used to move to Hollywood and sit by the pool waiting for the phone to ring  Jasmine Hyde, whose credits include the just-released movie The Truth Commissioner, says: “I never did any self-taping until five years ago. Now, a third of the jobs I go up for ask for it.” Andy Pryor, a leading casting director whose CV includes The A-Word and two other BBC shows due soon on screen – Undercover and A Midsummer Night’s Dream – has also noted the rise of DIY auditions. The obvious benefits, he says, are logistical – “Very busy actors aren’t easily available” – and financial: “Productions don’t always have the money to bring people in and out for an interview.” Self-taping has been a boon to actors like Freeman who live far from London, although its rising popularity is due not to its advantages for actors but because tapes can be sent to the huge number of producers that projects now tend to have, and who increasingly expect to have a say in casting. “When I started,” says Pryor, “the decision was made by the director and the casting director. Now, there can be many more people involved. We often record live auditions so others can watch them later, which we never used to do.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   To get yourself on screen, you have to put yourself on screen. Photograph: Alex Gumerov/Getty Images An obvious advantage to home auditions, says Hyde, is that “you can do as many takes as you want.” Freeman concurs, noting he will tape many versions until he’s satisfied with one, but warns: “Actors are assured that the method of taping does not matter, that iPhone results will be viewed as carefully as those filmed professionally. Do not believe this.” Although casting directors insist that simple self-tapes won’t limit actors’ chances, auditionees often go to elaborate lengths. “I have fitted myself out with contact lenses, so I no longer try to learn a script but tape it up all over the room,” says Freeman. “And I have a friend nearby, a former cameraman and sound engineer with state-of-the-art equipment, so my results look good.” One problem is the difficulty of finding a home co-star. This was painfully described in an article by writer-actor Michael Simkins, who remembers the withering look from his wife as he laid down a seduction scene and the thriller script that led to worried neighbours rushing round to find the source of blood-curdling screams coming from his house.  With e-auditions, actors who look great on tape may actually be egotists whose talents peaked in front of their phones  E-auditioning has helped ever more Brits find employment in the US and many American and Scandinavian stars are now being cast in the UK. “The technology definitely means you consider many more people,” admits Pryor. “In the past, a foreign actor who wanted to crack America would move to Hollywood and sit by the pool waiting for the phone to ring.” Now, they can keep working at home while courting New York and Los Angeles by email. Even so, for Pryor, “nothing beats face-to-face auditions”, and some film-makers refuse to cast virtually. Tim Fywell, whose TV directing credits include Happy Valley and River, says “self-taping is not an ideal situation”, but the process can produce a shortlist of performers to meet in person. A disadvantage of self-taping is that there is no possibility to discuss a character or alternative readings, which, traditionally, could provide clues about how well a performer responds to suggestions. Fywell will “always direct an actor at an audition to see what you get”. Under the new system, actors who look great on tape may turn out to be inflexible egotists whose talents peaked in front of their smartphones.  Home auditions are fast and cheap, so it’s no wonder actors seem increasingly likely to be asked to self-record, but there is still scepticism on both sides of the camera. Fywell can only envisage self-taping as a “last resort … I always want to meet an actor face-to-face, because the chemistry is crucial.”Freeman, after a five-decade career, has concluded that: “Physical auditions are, of course, terrifying, but rejection is part – perhaps the most stressful part – of our lives. At least with preparation time and the requisite chutzpah, one can take control of the audition.” And who knows, it may not be long before there’s a Bafta award for best self-taped audition.