In these days of early winter one gets very vivid colour still in morning skies, and the reflection of this in water is sometimes even deeper than any we see in midsummer. Standing above the winding reaches of a narrow stream which ran through marshy land, we saw the steel-blue of wind-ruffled water thrown up in sharpest contrast by the soft, pale buff of the grass and the slightly darker buff of the sedges.No such contrast appeared when the grasses were lush in midsummer, or in so mild a winter as we had last year, when even meadow grass remained as green as green moss; reeds and rushes too, have all some grey in their outer sheathing which makes them, in their green season, tone softly into the tints of sky and water. But under the sharp touch of frost buff and blue stood keenly contrasted, uncompromising, almost harsh; and the outlines of the little compact white clouds that raced overhead were sharp, too, and dazzling.The wind nipped; it was no day for dawdling, and we raced the clouds. But suddenly, at a bend, we came upon such a blaze, such a glow of exciting and aspiring colour, a fountain of vermilion spouting from the dun, that we stood still with a common cry of joy and almost awe. Then silence for a space of pure thanksgiving; then a murmured quotation - “Flushing like the dogwood crimson in October,” - and then a quickly renewed tramp, with much banging of chilled hands and feet and a heated argument as to whether “crimson” was really the colour we had seen. One said “minium-red” was nearer; one suggested “cinnabar”; but the writer stuck to “vermilion.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Manchester Guardian, 2 December 1915.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helena Swanwick, 1916. Photograph: HandoutHelena Swanwick was the first woman to write for the Guardian country diary. After starting work at the paper as resident expert on plant and vegetables in the Saturday edition, she became the fifth member of the diary team in December 1915, on a salary of a guinea and a half a week. about Helena Swanwick in Martin Wainwright’s A Good Year For Blossom: Women writers of the Guardian Country Diary, and Helena Swanwick and Evelyn Sharp - pioneering Guardian journalists.