Mozzarella, ciabatta, Parma ham … when considering Italy’s culinary landscape, palm oil is unlikely to feature high on the list – if at all. Yet the Mediterranean country is the EU’s second largest (pdf) importer of the oil, which some estimate is found in 90% of biscuits and baked goods in Italian supermarkets.  Misura is one of several Italian brands that produces palm oil-free (‘senza olio di palma’) products. Photograph: PRNot everyone in Italy is happy about this, with critics voicing concerns over the health impacts of an ingredient high in saturated fat as well as over the commodity’s links to deforestation in south-east Asia. A survey earlier this year, for example, found (pdf) 37% of those polled in Italy considered palm oil to be bad for the environment, up from 18% last year.Is “palm oil free” the way forward?With such a complicated subject, it’s not surprising Italy is divided over how best to approach palm oil.Over the past year more than 160,000 people have signed a “stop the invasion of palm oil” petition created by Italian online magazine Il Fatto Alimentare. The magazine has been campaigning to reduce the use of palm oil in food products on health and environmental grounds, compiling lists of biscuits and other snack foods made without the oil.In April, the Five Star Movement – the anti-establishment party led by comedian-activist Beppe Grillo – introduced a parliamentary motion to ban palm oil from public cafeterias, including schools, citing health and environmental concerns.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Recent forest fires in Indonesia are said to have threatened one third of the world’s remaining wild orangutans,according to conservationists. Photograph: Dita Alangkara/APSome retailers such as Coop, Esselunga, Misura and Gentilini have reacted to the consumer backlash by introducing cakes, biscuits, crackers and spreads made without palm oil. In September, for example, Coop debuted a palm oil-free Nutella substitute made with sunflower oil and cocoa butter. Although a recent review of scientific research on whether palm oil consumption increases the likelihood of cardiovascular disease suggests there is no increased risk, those wanting to avoid palm oil in their diets can opt for palm oil free products. However, when it comes to avoiding the environmental issues associated with palm oil the issue is more complex.Despite calls to ban palm oil on environmental grounds, campaigners and NGOs agree that an EU-wide ban would do little to stop palm-oil related deforestation. The 28 countries of the EU currently account for roughly 15% of global palm oil imports (pdf). China alone, in contrast, accounts for almost 13%. “Our experience in Italy is that boycotts have limited leverage,” says Martina Borghi, forest campaigner at Greenpeace Italy.Indonesia's forest fires: everything you need to know What’s more, alternatives come with their own set of problems. Palm oil has the highest yield per hectare of any oilseed. Substituting it with soya oil, for example, would require five times the amount of land, and more pesticides, fertiliser and energy input.Instead, Greenpeace – alongside other organisations including WWF and The Forest Trust – argues that companies and consumers should work together to support palm oil produced in a more sustainable way. However, as Ecover’s long-term innovation manager Tom Domen has pointed out, while sustainable production methods are the only environmentally responsible option when it comes to palm oil, no single-source crop can ever be truly sustainable. It’s important, Domen argues, that we diversify our diets rather than rely solely on one ingredient across so many products. Driving change on the groundTransforming the complex supply chain isn’t easy. Deforestation, species loss, exploitative labour practices, fires in Indonesia and haze blanketing south-east Asia are just some of the concerns the industry has to address.In an effort to move the Italian industry towards more sustainable practices, the Italian Union for Sustainable Palm Oil was formed in October 2015, bringing together major industry players including companies such as Ferrero, Nestlé Italiana and Unigrà, as well as alliances such as AIDEPI, ASSITOL and AIIPA. As well as developing communications strategies to address consumers’ health and environmental fears, the union plans to recruit and educate new members committed to a goal of 100% sustainable palm oil by 2020. The union joins national alliances in other EU nations that aim to increase uptake of sustainably produced palm oil. Unlike other national alliances, the Italian union does not specify which certification scheme members must use to meet the goal of supplying 100% sustainable palm oil by 2020, although several Italian members are already part of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO).Not everyone agrees that this is the benchmark against which progress should be measured. An equivalent alliance in France, for example, has created stricter criteria, including traceability to the plantation level and greater support for rights of workers and local communities. Other national alliances in Germany, Belgium and Norway have also set certification goals beyond those required by the RSPO.Going deforestation-free: can it protect our forests? Ultimately commitments and certification are only part of the puzzle. “We need to see evidence that these commitments, whether individual companies or national initiatives, are bringing about change on the ground,” says Helen Buckland, director of the Sumatran Orangutan Society, a non-profit that works to prevent habitat loss in Indonesia. “At the moment we can’t say if they are having a transformational impact on deforestation … We are losing species and millions of hectares of forest in the meantime.”For that to happen will need more than just Italy or Europe on board, argues Eric Servat, global lead on palm oil and market transformation for southern Europe at the Rainforest Alliance.Servat welcomes the formation of the Italian alliance alongside other national alliances, but questions whether they have enough weight to influence suppliers in Asia. “I dream one day of having similar alliances in the big consuming markets of India, Indonesia and China,” he says.