The county Durham coast still has economic problems a-plenty, as described in a Guardian Northerner blog post yesterday. But it gets a welcome boost today.The Council of Europe's Landscape Awards, now in their second year, have given an accolade to the huge, patient clean-up of what used to be called the 'black coast'.  Easington in the 'black beach' days. Photograph: Durham County Council.Literally black, from coal-mining, the lovely stretch of beaches and headlands between Sunderland and Hartlepool has seen 1,300,000 tonnes of mining waste removed and the subsequent ten-year regeneration of wildflowers, marine life and outstanding views. The scale of the challenge will be familiar to anyone who watched the iconic Michael Caine film Get Carter or Alien 3 which both used the grim old beaches for bleak scenes.Mining waste was simply dumped beside the sea, leading to the secondary 'industry' of seacoaling, or scavenging the spoil for burnable lumps, like a particularly grubby form of beachcombing. You can watch a short film about how the landscape was transformed utterly, here:   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The transformation was Britain's entry for the Council of Europe award after it won the UK version of the competition in November last year. The European prize and runners-up awards – one of which has gone to the Durham Heritage Coast – were set up to promote the value of outstanding landscape to the social and economic health of local communities.Vitally needed around the former pit villages and towns along the coast, many of which are still isolated and with little new employment to replace coal-mining, the Heritage Coast was described by the European judges as "an excellent model for the regeneration of degraded coastal areas." It was up against rivals from 14 other countries and was pipped to the top prize by the Carbonia Project in Sardinia, Italy.  Cycleways are part of the new landscape. Photograph: HandoutJo Watkins, President of the Landscape Institute which organises the UK contest, says: It is right that we recognise the importance of landscapes and their value to society. Just look at what has been achieved in Durham – an extraordinary transformation that is contributing on so many different levels. It just shows what can be achieved when the full potential of a landscape is realised.Niall Benson, Durham Heritage Coast officer for the partnership of councils and agencies which support the regeneration, welcomes:This strong endorsement of all the hard work undertaken by the Durham Heritage Coast Partnership and the local communities along the coastal strip. It's an achievement for which everyone involved should feel justly proud.