North to Alaska, where it’s emerged that nine dinosaurs, long thought extinct, have been discovered in plain sight upon the frozen, howling tundra, last survivors of a famous, long-dead tribe: nine still extant Blockbuster Video franchise outlets out of a total 12 in the US, all that remains of a global company that went belly up in 2010.And they do good business, some even counting themselves as competitive with Netflix, since broadband access in vast Alaska is marooned in the Jack London era. Owners talk of camaraderie with customers, recommendations, the human touch not conferred by a Netflix click and stream.VHS is dead, but at least it outlived Betamax tapes by nine months The rest of us have seen this all disappear in the last five years or so. Every time one of my favourites closed, I glumly gathered up my bargains on shelf-clearance day, and felt as if I were picking a corpse’s pocket as I shook hands with all the clerks, my friends and fellow nerds on many a movie safari. The eradication of video stores, once as common as launderettes or bars, was a tipping-point moment, the final privatisation of the movie-going experience.It’s odd, poignant even, to have witnessed the rise and fall of the entire video-rental phenomenon over 30 years. I saw my earliest movies at the movies. No VCRs, no REC, no rewind, no second viewing, one and done, in a crowd, never alone. That made cinemagoing an adventure if you were an autodidactic movie junkie hungry for subtitles, silent movies, old movies, weird movies, bad movies – a canon of your own, built by you.And then VHS made the kind of cine-literacy I was seeking available to the masses, and transformed modern cinema; just ask ex-video store clerk Quentin Tarantino. As a medium for filmic education, it was phenomenal. Total-immersion self-education was now possible on your own schedule: you could study a film’s architecture, the dynamics of a sequence or scene, the rhythm and music of dialogue, over and over again. And then rent five more movies by the same director. The visual quality of VHS was horrible, fuzzy and panned-and-scanned, but every great director under 50 today was raised on rewind.I still have a VCR, probably the most analogue piece of tech on my whole block, obsolete second-cousin to a wind-up 78rpm record player with a horn. Rewind sounds like a tumble drier full of forks, eject is like a howitzer fired directly at one’s crotch, and the quality of my ancient remaining VHS tapes means that everything looks like garbage. She’s a clunky old gal but, no matter, I still love her like the old days. Just not enough to elope to Alaska with her.