“It has been one of the best, fun jobs that I have ever done,” says Ian Edginton, the comic-book writer famous for writing multiple dark stories for Batman and Judge Dredd and racking up Eisner nominations. “I’ve never had to write anything like this – it has always had to be tempered with a sombre tone. But this is just fun. This is panto! Panto in spandex.”Edginton’s latest job (“This really has not felt like work,” he says multiple times) has been a comic-book mashup of Adam West-era Batman with English spy classic The Avengers for comic book giant DC. Edginton, a “60s baby”, was such a fan of both TV shows that when a friend was offered the gig, he suggested Edginton do it instead. “It is great fun, playing with other people’s toys,” he says. “As long as you put them back in the box afterwards, the sky is the limit.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The sky’s the limit’ ... Adam West as Batman and Burt Ward as Robin. Photograph: Zuma Press, Inc/Alamy If you have Emma Peel and Catwoman in the same room, of course you need to have them comparing bodysuitsIan Edginton In 2013, DC launched the Batman ’66 series, based on Adam West’s run on TV as the caped crusader. Popularity later spawned a mashup with The Man from U.N.C.L.E., from the same TV era. Now, in Batman ’66 Meets Steed and Mrs Peel, he teams up with Emma Peel and John Steed to take on a gaggle of villains, beginning with Julie Newmar’s slick Catwoman. Blending the DayGlo brightness of Batman with the English heroes was tricky: “People were actually killed in The Avengers whereas Batman was ostensibly a children’s show. I had a Venn diagram with Batman in one circle, The Avengers in the other and in that little overlap is where I am playing.” But marrying up the candyfloss of Batman with Steed’s and Peel’s eloquence was fun: “Having Bruce Wayne deal with a very emancipated Ms Peel was the best,” he says. “And if you have Emma Peel and Catwoman in the same room, of course you need to have them comparing bodysuits.”Even for a fan, it was work: with both TV shows notching up over 100 episodes during their 60s runs, Edginton was confronted with painful choices when it came to storylines and possible cameos. “It was kind of like a buffet. I had to go in with a knife – I just had too many toys to play with.” And yes, there are in-jokes and references galore. “You can’t do this sort of thing without them,” Edginton says. “People who haven’t seen either show can understand it, but if you have – this is like a Where’s Wally of in-jokes.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A panel from Batman ’66 Meets Steed and Mrs Peel. Photograph: DC ComicsThese days, ridiculing the infamous cheese of Batman has tempered into a collective fondness – who can’t smile when thinking of the slightly pudgy TV crimefighter lugging around a bomb with “BOMB” written on it, or his trusty can of shark repellant spray? “He’s not pudgy, he’s 100% Adam West!” Edginton laughs. “A few years ago we couldn’t have done this, but anything goes now. And the show is even better these days, with Blu-rays - you can really see how they smeared Joker makeup over Cesar Romero’s moustache because he refused to shave.”From Adam West’s colourful run to Frank Miller’s wounded warrior and Christian Bale’s tortured 21st-century turn, Batman has grown darker – both in print and on screen. “Batman was a bit camp when it started, but we all loved it as it was the only Batman that there was,” Edginton says. “I don’t know if we’re all being postmodern and knowing now, but I think there is a lot of love for West still. Grim and gritty has a place but whenever I tell people what I am working on, their faces light up.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cover of Batman ’66 Meets Steed and Mrs Peel. Photograph: Michael Allred/DC ComicsEdginton, who has written Batman comics twice before, had to put aside the grit of previous iterations and sharpen up on his alliteration and gags. “It was so liberating to be this silly,” he says. He even made a spreadsheet for Robin’s infamous exclamations: “God bless the internet because everything is listed. I made up quite a few of my own – ‘Holy jailbreak, Batman!’ – but I needed the spreadsheet to make sure I didn’t double up. There is a lot of art in maintaining this much cheese.”Edginton just hopes readers have as much fun as he has. “We can all do with some fun,” he says. “It is light and silly. There is nothing wrong with wanting pure, unadulterated entertainment.” Is he cooking up more mashups in his head? “Get Smart meets Mission Impossible would be great.”Batman ’66 Meets Steed and Mrs Peel will be published digitally, biweekly, from 8 June on the DC Comics App, Kindle and most major digital publishers. It will be released as a print periodical in July.