Possibly because of BBC1’s early-90s soap flop Eldorado, the British TV schedules infrequently visit Spain. When they do, it’s often through the lens of expat life, be it aspirational shows such as A Place in the Sun or dramas such as Benidorm; when Spanish shows come to Britain meanwhile, they can be so-so, such as Sky’s Grand Hotel. But with prison drama Locked Up, Spain has created a clever and thrilling breakout hit.With its female inmates, Locked Up was always at risk of sentences from critics accusing it of theft from Orange is the New Black and Prisoner Cell Block H. But, while there are unavoidable overlaps, especially in sexual tension and the tactics of incarceration, the Spanish show’s originality has raised high anticipation for the second season that starts on Channel 4 tonight, ahead of the release of all 13 episodes on All 4’s global TV drama library Walter Presents. A drawback for stories set in prison is that they automatically struggle to include two elements often considered indispensable for a hit drama series: sympathetic central characters, and a figure within the community whom viewers would never suspect of being a criminal.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Who’s the baddie? Macarena and Zulema go head to head. Photograph: GSN Press/Channel 4 The prison sitcom Porridge was careful to make Ronnie Barker’s Norman Stanley Fletcher a petty con, generally apprehended through ineptness, while Piper Chapman in Orange is the New Black was once a drug mule, but had achieved social respectability by the time a long-ago crime caught up with her. Following this model, the protagonist of Locked Up is Macarena Ferreiro (Maggie Civantos), who has found herself in Cruz Del Sur high-security nick after being duped by a lover into financial fraud. Spending the first season seeking a retrial, she was always a relative goodie in comparison with the series’ villain, Zulema (Najwa Nimri), who has turned imprisonment into a business. More innovatively, the Spanish show started with a murder in jail, triggering a storyline about the fate of 9m stolen euros, while also providing a cohort of suspects of which absolutely anyone of them could have been involved. In another clever touch – reminiscent of Breaking Bad, visibly the major influence on high-end TV everywhere these days – Macarena’s law-abiding family on the outside became splashed with guilt and blood as they tried to help her. The biggest decision for any hit in its second season is how much to change the basic situation. Cunningly, Locked Up retains the main characters and the dynamics despite making one of the most fundamental shifts of location possible: from inside a prison to outside. At the end of the first run, the jailbreak that was a running subplot – nicely complicated by Macarena’s reluctance to leave – succeeded. So the second season becomes, at least initially, a two-site show, with Zulema now leading her gang in larger spaces and Macarena, having added a second entry on her criminal record by escaping, soon adds an even more serious third.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yellow is the new black... a scene from season one of Locked Up. Photograph: Virginia M.Chico/PR Company Handout This is impeccable second-season plotting, injecting the fresh tension of whether the escapees will be returned to jail, with the twist that both Macarena, who has a girlfriend there, and the audience, who loved the original setup, have reasons for wanting the women back behind bars. The breakout also enjoyably complicates the equation in jail, where the management committee takes the chance to replace the previously rehabilitative regime (poetry and piano recitals for prisoners) with a more traditionally punitive approach. However, although that strand does lightly animate the heavy topic of what prison is for, there’s never a risk of thinking that judicial issues were what drew the producers to the prison as a setting. A major reason for the popularity of dramas set in women’s prisons is that they encourage speculation about female sexuality in the absence of men: the title of the Spanish version, Vis-à-Vis, a term for conjugal visit, is explicit about this titillating aspect. Locked Up: it's Orange is the New Black – with added sex and violence  But, whereas Orange is the New Black has a generally feminist ethic, Locked Up reflects an older sexual politics. Indeed, the season two opener sometimes raises the suspicion that the characters have been sprung in order to get them out of those tangerine jumpsuits: a scene of the women changing into civvies in their getaway vehicle is followed by sunbathing on a beach, first in swimsuits and then topless. One of the revelations of Walter Presents has been to confirm, as UK viewers probably suspected, that foreign television is often less confined by politicians, regulators and the fear of negative newspaper coverage. Locked Up is made by Globomedia for Antena 3, roughly a Spanish equivalent to ITV in having been the first commercial rival to a state broadcasting monopoly, and representing an important stage in Spain’s transition to democracy. Although sometimes at risk of accusations of sexism, Locked Up is properly bold in challenging racist and homophobic attitudes. This prison drama has the feel of luxuriating in creative freedom.Locked Up is on Channel 4, Thursday, 10pm