Thirty years ago, Woody Allen told us that life no longer imitated art but bad TV. Since then, telly has got better. Much better. Good news for life, for it means it can once again imitate art. And, at the moment, it seems to be making an especially good fist of it. Top honours in a crowded week of contenders go to Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the then Icelandic prime minister, for his showstopping performance when ambushed on Sunday in a TV interview about the Panama Papers.Trapped – the Icelandic thriller that's the unexpected TV hit of the year so far Rarely has reality quite so brilliantly mimicked a fiction whose operating principle was realism. Here we had, distilled into a couple of minutes, all the clammy panic of the very best Nordic noir: hot sweat in chilly climes, creeping claustrophobia, the inescapable conclusion that corruption is endemic and even the good guys have souls the colour of herring guts beneath a midnight sun. Gunnlaugsson’s turn was textbook stuff, straight out of Iceland’s own Trapped: the red-rimmed eyes, the awful smiling, the bleats of innocence. Worst was the laboriousness: petard-hoisting seemingly executed in slo-mo, paced without any appreciation of the virtues of the quick exit. He resigned less than 48 hours later.In the past, political interviews progressed with much more of the brio and brevity of an Aaron Sorkin script – if not always the quips. Politicians weren’t routinely put on the back foot; they were in command. The conditions were conducive to grandstanding and monologuing. Then LWT’s Weekend World outwitted them, by spending seven days meticulously scripting choose-your-own-adventure scenarios that meant wherever the politician went, a strategy was already in place to jump them. Few outlets now practise this kind of narrative ingenuity, and what we have instead is a sort of ad hoc combativeness, the traction of which depends on clips going viral by appearing to reveal some surprise truth. This is what leads us to gloat over Gunnlaugsson gawping his credibility away, and also over Zac Goldsmith’s nul-points performance when quizzed about London in the back of a cab. But it worked for Iain Duncan Smith, overcome with emotion remembering the plight of a single mother in an interview with Ian Hislop. IDS’s sniffing made him the star. Debate’s loss is drama’s gain.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Thousands demonstrate in Reykjavik calling for PM’s resignation – video The baddies of bad TVOf course, bad TV does still exist. But it tries to ape better TV with “live” specials and ever-more-edgy coup de théâtres. Hence Neighbours Hotel Death Trap week, in which every night at 10pm on Channel 5 you can see another resident of Erinsborough perish after an explosion at Lassiter’s hotel. This blast was sabotage by one-legged super-crook Paul Robinson, Lassiter’s former owner, who for 30 years has been terrorising the luckless Melbourne suburb. EastEnders’ own veteran terror, Phil Mitchell, was doing almost exactly the same thing on that soap last week, drunkenly bulldozing his own auto-repair shop without realising his daughter was inside. Both Paul and Phil are terminal survivors, magic-candle baddies. If these shows really want to get classy, they need to snuff them out.Keeping the peaceFor six months, I live in heaven: the main road that my street acts as a funnel on to is closed for repairs. The shake and rattle of lorries bouncing over the speed bumps at 5am is no more; instead you can hear birds and even, sometimes, silence. Walk along the main road to the station and the atmosphere is like an all-day street party, with strangers giddily smiling at each other, children cackling on scooters. On the local community website, there is a desperate drive to see if such paradise can be maintained. Meanwhile in Medway – already populous and congested – over 30,000 people have signed an online petition objecting to the proposed Lower Thames Crossing, to supplement the one at Dartford a few miles down. “Say no to option C” suggest posters in Shorne, one of north Kent’s few truly lovely bits, set to be desecrated. But perhaps we’re pitching this wrong. Maybe cars shouldn’t be in anyone’s back yard. Say no to all options. Just say no.