It’s never been more fashionable to write about walking in cities. Books on psychogeography have become a cottage industry, their authors held up as philosophers of modernity. The roots of what they do lie in a 19th-century phenomenon – the flâneur, a figure of privilege and leisure, with the time and money to amble around the city at will. He is both stimulated and agitated by the buzz and hum of the city, the crowd; he is both part of and separate from the urban spectacle, both actor and observer.He is also, always, a man. It’s strange: for as long as there have been cities, there have been women living in them, yet if we want to know what it’s like to walk thoughtfully in the city, there is only a long tradition of writing by men that tells us, stretching from Thomas De Quincey to André Breton to Will Self. But if we want to know how women experience the city? The flâneuse, if she can be said to exist, must be a streetwalker or a homeless woman, or some other unfortunate whose circumstances have forced her onto the street. Today, when most women you meet in the city have a tale or two of street harassment to tell, the notion of wandering the streets alone seems a fraught proposition.This, perhaps, explains why there is so little attention paid to writing by women about walking in cities: most people assume it doesn’t exist, or is the exception that proves the rule. Our most ready-to-hand sources for what the streetscape looked like in the 19th century are male, and they see the city in a particular way. Baudelaire’s mysterious and alluring passante, immortalised in his poem “To a [Female] Passerby”, from Les Fleurs du Mal, is thought to have been a woman of the night: “The deafening street roared around me/Tall, slender, in heavy mourning, majestic in her grandeur/A woman walked past me (…) Swift and graceful, with legs like a statue’s/Twitching like a madman, I drank in/Her eyes, a pallid sky where storms are born/the sweetness that charms and the pleasure that kills.” Baudelaire can barely gauge her: she is too fast (though somehow, at the same time, statuesque). He is disinclined to consider who she might actually be. For him, she is the keeper of mystery, with the power to charm and to poison.Women have overlooked the possibilities for flâneuserie as well. In 1888 the British poet, essayist and novelist Amy Levy wrote, “The female club-lounger, the flâneuse of St James Street, latch-key in pocket and eye-glasses on the nose, remains a creature of the imagination.” But there have always been women writing about cities, chronicling their lives, telling stories, taking pictures, making films, engaging with the city any way they can – including Levy herself. To suggest that there could be no flâneuse because she wasn’t literally a female flâneur is to limit the ways women have interacted with the city to the ways men have interacted with the city. Perhaps the answer is not to attempt to make a woman fit a masculine concept, but to redefine the concept itself. It’s time to recognise a counter-tradition of the flâneuse, looking back to George Sand, to Jean Rhys, or in our own day to Sophie Calle, or Laura Oldfield Ford. If we tunnel back, we find there always was a flâneuse passing Baudelaire in the street. Rather than wandering aimlessly, like her male counterpart, the flâneuse goes where she’s not supposed to For a woman to be a flâneuse, first and foremost, she’s got to be a walker – someone who gets to know the city by wandering its streets, investigating its dark corners, peering behind façades, penetrating into secret courtyards. Virginia Woolf called it “street haunting” in an essay by that name: sailing out into a winter evening, surrounded by the “champagne brightness of the air and the sociability of the streets”, we leave the things that define us at home, and become “part of that vast republican army of anonymous trampers”. Out ostensibly to buy a pencil, Woolf is transformed by the quality of the light, of the air, of the road. As we progress through the cityscape there comes a point when we are no longer just reacting: we are interacting, created anew by this interaction.The 19th-century Russian painter Marie Bashkirtseff saw an explicit link between walking in the city and the work that artists could create. “I long for the freedom to go out alone: to go, to come, to sit on a bench in the Jardin des Tuileries, and especially to go to the Luxembourg, to look at the decorated store windows, to enter churches and museums, and to stroll in the old streets in the evenings. This is what I envy. Without this freedom one cannot become a great artist.”For Woolf, who had the idea for To the Lighthouse one afternoon while walking in Tavistock Square, there was a clear connection between walking and creativity. In a letter to Ethel Smyth in 1930, she wrote: “I cannot get my sense of unity and coherency and all that makes me wish to write the Lighthouse etc. unless I am perpetually stimulated.” This comes from engaging with the world, from “plung[ing] into London, between tea and dinner, and walk[ing] and walk[ing], reviving my fires, in the city, in some wretched slum, where I peep in at the doors of public houses.”The very first words spoken by Virginia Woolf’s Mrs Dalloway say it all: “‘I love walking in London,’ said Mrs Dalloway. ‘Really, it’s better than walking in the country.’” Mrs Dalloway is the flâneuse incarnate, as indicated by her surname: “a woman who likes to dally along the way,” as Rachel Bowlby pointed out. Woolf used the streets as research. What she saw there prompted her to wonder about people and their lives. The trick of capturing what they feel pushed her forward in her literary project – how to represent “life itself” on the page.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scenes from Sophie Calle’sSuite VénitienneRather than wandering aimlessly, like her male counterpart, the female flâneur has an element of transgression: she goes where she’s not supposed to. Take the French artist Sophie Calle, whose celebrated career began the day that, out of boredom, she began secretly following people in the street whom she had chosen arbitrarily. One evening, at a gallery opening, she encountered a man she had been trailing earlier that afternoon. The coincidence seemed like a sign. When he mentioned he was travelling to Venice the next day, she decided to follow him there covertly, too, and she pursued him all over town until he recognised her under her blonde wig. Compiling her notes and photographs, she turned them into an installation and a book, called Suite Vénitienne. Sophie Calle, as flâneuse, claimed her right to walk in the city – not merely following her man, but stalking her prey.The flâneuse walks the streets defiantly, as a 1929 photograph taken by Marianne Breslauer suggests. In the foreground, a woman stands on the street in Paris, about to light up a cigarette. Behind her, on the wall, the familiar injunction: Défense d’Afficher (No Advertisements), a late 19th- century ban intended to prevent the city from becoming a wasteland of billboards. Above the sign, some letters are stencilled – defiantly? Or were they there first? – announcing that charcuterie could once have been obtained there, or nearby. Below that, someone has drawn the crude outline of a face.A woman smoking in public had become a less unusual sight by the time Breslauer took her photo. But it still retains an element of sin: a woman, visible against the wall behind her, in a field of proscriptions and defiances, about to light up a cigarette. Breslauer’s photograph sets out the key problem at the heart of the urban experience: are we individuals, or are we part of the crowd? Do we want to stand out, or blend in? Is that even possible? How do we – no matter what our gender – want to be seen in public? Do we want to attract or escape the gaze? Remarkable or unremarked-upon? Défense d’afficher. Do not advertise. And yet there she is. Elle s’affiche. She shows herself. She shows up against the city.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martha Gellhorn in May 1946. Photograph: FPG/Getty ImagesWe can even expand the definition of the flâneuse to include the reporter. Flânerie, the great war reporter Martha Gellhorn told Victoria Glendinning, “is as necessary as solitude: that is how the compost keeps growing in the mind”. Over a lifetime of work as a war correspondent, travelling from Spain to China, to Finland to Vietnam, Gellhorn put herself among the blood, and the filth and despair.In Madrid, to report on the Spanish civil war, Gellhorn felt she didn’t have the journalistic chops to cover the big stories, and turned, instead, to reporting on daily life in the besieged city. In a series of reports for Collier’s, an American magazine, she described her daily walks around the city, detailing the everyday impact of war on the people who lived there. She wrote about how strange it was to find a war just down the road, and described the people as simply waiting, for the next shelling, or for something else to happen. People were “standing in doorways and around the square, just standing there patiently, and then suddenly a shell landed, and there was a fountain of granite cobblestones flying up in the air, and the silver lyddite smoke floated off softly”. One man can’t bear waiting in a doorway, in a group, and says he thinks it’s over, but in any case he must go: “‘I have work to do. I am a serious man. I cannot spend my time waiting for shells. Salud,’ he said, and walked out calmly into the street, and calmly crossed it.” This is a kind of micro-reporting, telling the world not what happened at a meeting between generals, but how much a loaf of bread mattered to an architect and his children.In some ways, Gellhorn directly contradicts the image we have of the flâneur – that of the solitary, dissociated urban observer. The flâneuse faced with war and suffering cannot simply stand by: “It is too hard to sit on the outside and watch what you can neither help nor change; it is far easier to close your eyes and your mind and jump into the general misery, where you have almost no choices left, but a lot of solitary company.” In her dedication to exposing misery, Gellhorn turned flânerie into testimony.The art of wandering: share your stories of walking in cities How did she do it? Where did she find the energy to push back, to flout expectations, to travel so far from home? How did she negotiate the self-doubt, the anxiety, the shame of feeling out of step, excessive, inappropriate? Even today, it takes a daunting amount of conviction to convert natural curiosity into willpower. To up and go is the boldest statement of self-preservation. Laying claim to flânerie has always enabled women to reroute the paths they were expected to take, and disrupt the lives they were expected to live.• Flâneuse: Women Walk the City by Lauren Elkin is published by Chatto & Windus. To order a copy for £13.93 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846