This blog is for those who have watched the fifth episode of series two of The Last Kingdom. Please try and avoid book spoilers in the comments. Catch up on the episode one, two, three and four recaps here.After the mayhem of last week events slowed down a little (as much as they ever slow down on this show) as we moved on three years to the fourth book in Bernard Cornwell’s series, Sword Song. It’s a title that suggests we’re going to see a lot of fighting in the second half of this series, but which side will our conflicted hero be on? As an enjoyable episode ended we left Uhtred, now a happily married father of two, with a choice to make: Alfred or destiny? Saxon or Dane? However he falls, I feel there’s a lot of bloodshed heading his (and our) way. “The dead speak. I have seen it, heard it … a corpse I saw him rise from his grave and speak”Before he could make that choice, Uhtred had the minor matters of prophecy and resurrection to contend with – as an apparently sober Aethelwold (always a warning sign) arrived bearing news of a dead Viking apparently keen to crown Uhtred King of Mercia. The hard-to-impress Uhtred wasn’t easily swayed by the idea that a dead man had risen from his grave to anoint him but, thanks to a meeting with former antagonist Erik (minus his bloodthirsty brother Sigefrid), he eventually agreed to meet the mysterious Bjorn. What followed was a beautifully tense standoff in which a dead man did indeed appear to rise from the grave, much to the concern of Uhtred’s right-hand man Finan.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Careful and convoluted … Erik and Sigefrid lay the groundwork for their impressive long con. Photograph: BBC/Carnival/Steffan HillAt this point some non-superstitious viewers might have been shouting “oh come off it” but fear not. This is The Last Kingdom, where even the most ghostly happenings tend to have a simple explanation. And so it proved as the loyal Sihtric (charged by his master with stealthily watching the meeting and its aftermath) hung around long enough to catch Bjorn climbing out of his “grave”. The damage, however, may already have occurred as Erik and Aethelwold appear to have pandered to Uhtred’s vanity just enough to convince our man that, ghosts or no ghosts, he is born to rule. Personally I was more impressed that Erik and Sigefrid came up with this long con then laid the groundwork for it. They never struck me as capable of such careful, convoluted plans.“I find it annoying that he will not grow. He persists upon clinging to our ancient beliefs”The fractious relationship between Uhtred and Alfred is one of the best things about this programme and it was particularly well handled here, as we saw how much both men chafe against their bond. Uhtred finds it hard to be subservient to Alfred and doesn’t agree with either the Saxon notion of god or their idea of justice. Alfred is frustrated by Uhtred’s refusal to become a good, docile Ealdorman. In many ways Alfred is basically right – his way being that of progress, of laws and structure and governance. But it’s easy to see too why he irritates Uhtred. As the man himself pointed out to Finan: Alfred sees his value but “his god won’t allow it [so] he dislikes me more by the day.” Because of that I’m genuinely unsure which way Uhtred will fall. Logic says he’ll stay loyal to Alfred, not least because his wife and children are in Winchester for Aethelflaed’s wedding, but we all know Uhtred is a think first, ask questions later kind of guy. This could go very wrong.“Courage without sword is the more difficult path – it must in time become the only path”Alfred may be a difficult man to serve, but he’s not a bad leader. Much of his advice this week was correct, in particular his acknowledgment to Hild that there is only so long one can hide behind the weight of a sword. That said, I thought it was telling that he actually did take Uhtred’s advice about Aethelstan aka Guthrum but then neglected to tell Uhtred he had. If Uhtred’s undoing is his hot temper, Alfred’s is his high-handedness. By keeping Uhtred in the dark he risks losing him entirely. Additional notes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Get thee to a nunnery … Hild. Photograph: BBC/Carnival/Steffan Hill• I hope the fact that Hild is establishing her nunnery doesn’t mean we’ll see less of her. Eva Birthistle has been wonderful in the part and her absence would be felt.• I continue to enjoy Aelswith’s audition to be the Lady Macbeth of Wessex. • It was also interesting to see more of Gisela. Her comments about Aethelflaed being used as a whore by her family added an interesting perspective, while her pragmatic advice about heading north was by no means the worst given this episode. • Poor Aethelflaed – Aethelred is clearly the kind of man who spends a good hour telling himself how wonderful he is every day. That said, I’d be even more wary of his ambitious right-hand man Aldhelm.• Oh Aethelwold, fancy throwing away all the progress you made over the last few episodes. I fear you are unlikely to be king of anything but the ale house (and that’s if you’re lucky).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thank goodness it worked out for Beocca. Photograph: BBC/Carnival/Boris Martin• Thank goodness it panned out for Beocca and Thyra, a couple I unreservedly root for. May their union be long and happy (unlikely on this series I know). • I also hope Sihtric makes it out to marry his much-maligned girlfriend (again I’m not holding out huge amounts of hope). • Father Pyrlig made me laugh. I was quite taken by his description of East Anglia as a land of “quite unremarkable beauty”, although less so by his revelation of where he stows the king’s instructions. • If he wasn’t busy being King of Wessex and building a new England Alfred really could have a second career as an interior design critic. • Odda the Elder increasingly has a special place in my heart. He may not have many lines but Simon Kunz delivers them very well. Violence countIn an episode as much about the threat of violence as the reality, we saw one dead man with a sword through his back, one dead boy foolish enough to take on Finan and several dead raiders, who may or may not be doing Aethelstan/Guthrum’s bidding. Quote of the week“I cannot think of anything but her. It is constant and it is pathetic … I feel I am in purgatory of sorts.” Poor Father Beocca wrestles with his conscience. So what did you think? Will Uhtred fall for Erik and Sigefrid’s dastardly plan? What will Alfred do if he does? And how big an idiot do you think Aethelred really is? As always no spoilers and all speculation welcome below…