Classic Albums: Carly Simon No Secrets10pm, BBC4There are, of course, other songs on Carly Simon’s celebrated 1972 album, such as Embrace Me, You Child, and It Was So Easy, and they are discussed here by the likes of music writer Barney Hoskyns and Simon herself, in this enjoyable exploration. Yet No Secrets has one big masterpiece, an anthem of female empowerment that even its partial target, Warren Beatty, loves – because, being so vain, he knows the song is about him. Ali CatterallThe Final Mystery of Stonehenge 8pm, Channel 5Stonehenge was erected approximately 4,500 years ago, which means that for 45 centuries people have been trying to figure out why. This film meets the archaeologists who ponder this ancient conundrum for a living. It turns out that they have deciphered quite a lot, amounting to a remarkably detailed portrait of the monument, and of life in prehistoric Britain. An absorbing study of what we know and the means by which we know it. Andrew MuellerVersailles 9pm, BBC2      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Versailles, BBC2. Photograph: Tibo & Anouchka, Capa Drama, ZodiakFiction & Docs, Incendo, Canal+Life in the court is as nude and dramatic as ever, but Princess Palatine doesn’t get the warmest of welcomes in the boudoir from her new husband Philippe. Meanwhile, with the poisoner on the loose, Bontemps uncovers a new suspect and Sophie is not having any temps that are bon when she finds out who the king has lined up for her. Inside Versailles follows, with Kate Williams and Greg Jenner looking at what really went on inside that lusty old palace. Hannah VerdierHospital People 9.30pm, BBC1Tom Binns plays all the main characters in this otherwise formulaic mockumentary. In the abstract that’s impressive, but how it benefits the show isn’t obvious: the temptation to differentiate his creations by overegging them all proves irresistible. Tonight, Mark Williams is admitted as a wisecracking businessman, fawned over by hospital manager Susan (Binns) and befriended by chaplain and chilled-out entertainer Kenny (Binns). Jack SealeBritain Today Tonight 10pm, Channel 4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kayvan Novak in Britain Today Tonight, C4 Photograph: Mark Johnson/Channel 4Kayvan Novak, of Fonejacker and Facejacker pedigree, dons the prosthetics once again to play a variety of outlandish reporters in a Fox-a-like US news spoof about Britain. As per, he’s pranking unsuspecting folk, from the teens his ageing spook Sir Nicholas Charles enlists to decode texts to the black-cab drivers he quizzes on politics as Scots reporter Ken Kildoon. While he doesn’t reach the heights of his former series, it’s a welcome return. Hannah J DaviesJamestown 9pm, Sky1Set in the early 17th century, this new drama from the makers of Downton Abbey tells the story of three women making the journey to join the menfolk who are laying the foundations for a new world in America. They are “maids to make wives”, who will discover which of the males already in Jamestown will be their husband. The flaw in this scheme, as far as the women are concerned, immediately becomes evident; passions will doubtless run high, and the noose motif in this opening episode is ominous. David StubbsSpin 9pm, More4Episode four of the French political drama and Clémence Parodi, the president’s former lover, is 12 weeks pregnant. Shame nobody told Elisabeth, who tries to engineer a rapprochement with her husband, only to be utterly humiliated. Meantime, a still-traumatised Kapita helps further unpick the dodgy deals that led to the kidnapping of his journalist ex-wife, Apolline Vremier, but will his efforts be too little to save her? Terrific. Jonathan WrightFilm choiceJason Bourne (Paul Greengrass, 2016) 11.55am, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereAfter the misbegotten attempt at a Bourne film without Bourne (The Bourne Legacy), Matt Damon’s formerly amnesiac government assassin makes a satisfyingly bone-crunching return here. Earning an under-the-radar living as a bare-knuckle fighter in Greece, he’s soon delving into a precision-tooled plot that has Tommy Lee Jones’s stone-faced CIA boss setting Vincent Cassel’s killer on him. Amid all the cyber spying and brutal combat Bourne retains that air of oddly vulnerable humanity. Paul HowlettCuban Fury (James Griffiths, 2014) 12.10am, Channel 4Office worker Bruce Garrett (Nick Frost) is seeking redemption on the dancefloor. He tucked away his sequins years ago after being bullied at school, but dusts them down when the new boss (Rashida Jones) he’s fallen for turns out to be a salsa fan. Frost doesn’t quite convince as a dancer, but he’s a nimble comedian and there’s plenty of support from a vibrant cast including Olivia Colman and Chris O’Dowd. PHLive sportODI Cricket: England v Ireland 10.30am, Sky Sports 2 The first international of the English season from Bristol.Cycling: Giro d’Italia 11.45am, Eurosport 1 Coverage of the opening stage of the Grand Tour race.Premier League Football: West Ham United v Tottenham Hotspur 7pm, Sky Sports 1 A derby at the London Stadium with Spurs looking to maintain their hot streak.