I have often been in a room in which everyone can’t help but notice the colour of my skin. It strangely becomes an issue. People see my culture as intriguing – almost a commodity. In some circles, conversation turns to hip-hop or something “slightly ethnic”, to try and cover up their own discomfort and ignorance. You can tell they wonder how they should act in the presence of a black person. The truth is most white people are not used to feeling different. They see white faces in movies, advertisements, fashion campaigns and more. I would love it to be the other way round for a day so they could feel the social constructs and consciousness that black people exist in.This imbalanced exposure has existed for centuries and creates a psychological coping mechanism, the “cultural mask” – a term I have used for my video for Sacrifice. It represents a dual consciousness: a strange pendulum between wearing a mask and showing your true identity. This was a concept created by Frantz Fanon in his 1952 book Black Skin, White Masks. Fanon was a black activist and doctor of sociology who spoke about the layering of identities that a black person takes on to cope.As a black person you almost automatically learn to use this this mask in order to survive in a society predominantly catering to a white audience. It shows in different forms – from extremes of self-hate, where all things black are rejected, to coping strategies such as not wearing braids to a job interview in fear of being deemed “too ethnic”. These compromising adaptation strategies help us feel included, avoiding the fear that if one was to show blackness in its entirety there will be alienation and confusion from one’s counterparts.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frantz Fanon, author of Black Skin, White Masks. Photograph: Everett Collection Historical/AlamyWe are taught that to be black in our society is to be negative and to be white in our society is to be successful, elegant and all those other positive, sophisticated terms. This negative position has conditioned some of us to not only reject our blackness but to become submissive and not speak out about our experiences of prejudice. The truth becomes an uncomfortable subject and challenges the powerful majority who are not used to feelings of cultural alienation. We have been taught to stay quiet in compromising situations – and this fuels self-hate.This master/slave position swarms the collective consciousness to this day. Lighter skin, straighter hair, accepting prejudice and feeling desperate to fit in to a race of people after being told for centuries they are superior. Whether it is obvious or subconscious, this does exist. In my music video I wanted to discuss all of these ideas. I don’t want state that all white people are racist. I do, however, want to point a finger at white privilege and how it perpetuates the continuation of self-hate within our community, causing cultural deprivation, segregation, and superiority and inferiority complexes.Beyoncé unleashes Black Panthers homage at Super Bowl 50 I don’t want to be in a room and feel the presence of someone who feels intimidated by my blackness. I don’t want to see young black actors only playing roles that are single mothers, slaves, helpers or drug-dealers. I am sick of police brutality and the cover-ups and injustice. I am sick of the lack of diversification in our society and institutions. I am tired of having to apologise if I see a racist act or hear a racist joke and then made to feel wrong for feeling hurt or rattled by it, just because the other person is ignorant. I am tired of seeing an all white Brit awards and fashion shows with a token Chinese women and a token black African women. I am tired of meeting black investment bankers who deny their blackness to fit in with their white counterparts.Be powerful, successful and amazing, but be proud of who you are. All other cultures that are misrepresented in our society should not experience this either. Nobody should feel they have to wear a mask to fit into a “white society”. We should be open to all cultures and try ato re-programme our minds, because at the end of the day we really are not all that different anyway. Throw your masks to the wind. In fact, burn them! VV Brown plays a secret location in London on 26 March. 