If you were an overweight Los Angeleno in the 80s with a penchant for flamboyant fitness TV types, chances are you know Richard Simmons. The first time Dan Taberski met him, the eccentric personal trainer persuaded him to take his shirt off in the middle of an exercise class. Simmons wiped the sweat off his bare chest then stuffed it down his own trousers. “Of course he was doing knee lifts the whole time,” says Taberski. “It was wonderful. You take your shirt off and everybody screams. I truly feel for people who never got to take his class.”That’s one of many fond (if slightly odd) memories the creator of podcast Missing Richard Simmons has of the big-haired, tiny-shorted talk-show regular who, 40 years after opening his Beverly Hills studio, Slimmons (the man loved a pun), abruptly vanished from the public eye three years ago. Now, Taberski, a former Daily Show producer and Slimmons attendee, has appointed himself a one-man search party. And fans are hooked. It’s like Serial, but with more Lycra – and a mystery unfolding in real time, as Taberski talks to those closest to Simmons and hunts for clues as to his whereabouts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘People say Richard changed their lives forever and those stories are important, so I’m going to keep telling them.’ Photograph: AlamyPeople have long been drawn to Simmons by his openness: for decades, he was the most accessible man in showbiz, whose high-energy veneer hid his aim to inspire others. After overcoming his own weight problem, his mission became to help people do the same. As the aerobics trend grew, his singular style – all neon leggings and gold lamé shorts, pompoms and Swarovski crystals – led to frequent TV appearances. He played himself on General Hospital for years, and fronted many of his own shows, such as Slim Cooking and Sweatin’ to the Oldies. And despite the fact that his career saw him chatter with every talk show host from Rosie O’Donnell to Jimmy Kimmel, he’d still lead weekly classes at his studio and send out daily motivationals to up to 50 people. Then one day in February 2014, he didn’t turn up for class. In a completely out-of-character move, he ignored friends’ calls.Taberski was one of those friends. He and his husband had been round to Simmons’ house for dinner and he hoped to make a documentary about him, but Simmons wasn’t ready. Two months later, he ghosted the world.It’s hard to believe Taberski’s intentions for the podcast don’t come from a good place; telling Simmons’ story feels like a labour of love. “I think he’s so important and so special,” he says. “When people say they like the podcast I don’t feel like they’re responding to me – they’re responding to Richard. I think he’s the most empathetic person on the planet.”At first, the world seemed to fall in love with Taberski’s idea; after the second episode, Missing Richard Simmons topped the iTunes chart in the UK and US and fans rushed to post photos of themselves with him on social media.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘He’s the most empathetic person on the planet’ … Richard Simmons. Photograph: Harry Langdon/GettyBut five episodes in, the backlash has begun. The New York Times has described the podcast as “morally suspect” and a “public hounding”. If Simmons had decided to live a reclusive life, shouldn’t he be left to it? Rehashing tabloid reports that he’s transitioning, or staking out his Beverly Hills home, aren’t exactly moves that smack of empathy.Before he started his investigation, Taberski approached the star’s management. “I said: ‘Would you tell me if there’s something really grim going on and I should drop it?’ and they said: ‘No, he’s fine.’ And they maintain that.” If Simmons really does want to be left alone, does Taberski wonder whether he’s listening? “I hope so,” he says. “Although he’s such a mystery, and the way he cut himself off is so weird. If he’s so stubborn he can do that, it’s not hard to believe he can withstand not listening to a podcast about himself.” Simmons’ brother Lenny features on a recent episode, reassuring Taberski that the fitness guru is fine (though the most disturbing theory doing the rounds is that he is being held hostage by his overbearing housekeeper Teresa Reveles.) But as Missing Richard Simmons nears its finale, Taberski is sticking to the vow that he’ll only go over six episodes “if something big happens.”Hang on, is that a hint that he’s tracked him down? “Lord almighty, that was not a clue,” he laughs. “We haven’t talked to Richard yet, but that is the goal. I’m doing everything I can to make it happen in nice stalkery-type ways.” The more you hear Taberski talk about Simmons, it’s hard not to wonder if the whole thing is an elaborate stunt – and if Simmons isn’t in on it. “Oh my God, no!” says Taberski. “I’m not that clever. And I don’t think Richard is that clever either.” So what would happen if he did find Richard, and he asked him to give up his quest? “Well I’m not just telling Richard’s story any more,” says Taberski. “He might prefer to pretend he doesn’t exist, but people say Richard changed their lives forever and those stories are important, so I’m going to keep telling them. So if he asked me to stop the podcast, would I? No.”Listen to Missing Richard Simmons here