Manchester City have hired an 18-year-old gamer to represent the football club at eSports tournaments and fan events.Kieran ‘Kez’ Brown will play for the team on the world’s dominant football game Fifa 16, live streaming on Amazon’s gaming site Twitch and making videos for the club’s YouTube channel.The hire is the latest sign of growing interest in professional gaming from Europe’s top tier of football clubs.Fifa 17 – new engine, new story mode, and five more key additions In May West Ham signed 2016 Fifa interactive World Cup runner-up, 24-year-old Sean Allen to play video games for them, and in Germany, Bundesliga side Wolfsberg hired a 22-year-old from Wolverhampton to play on their behalf in February. Diego Gigliani, SVP for media and innovation at the club’s City Football Marketing unit said: “This is a natural evolution for Manchester City. We’ve been very involved with our partner, EA Sports, and the Fifa franchise for some time. “We will be a bigger presence at gaming tournaments, we will have more content through our digital channels and we will activate even more with our fans at matches and club events.” “When we set out to find an eSports player, we decided we wanted someone who was a fantastic, young, talent, but also with a hunger and a desire to grow. We strongly believe we have found that in Kieran. He is full of potential. Not only is he a great player, but we also believe he will engage and interact brilliantly with our fans all around the world.”Brown said:“It’s exciting; it’s something new for the club and it’s something new for me. I’m going to livestream on Twitch, I’m going to be making videos for Manchester City’s YouTube channel and I’m going to be playing some City fans and representing City in future tournaments, which I’m looking forward to. This is an opportunity which not many people get the chance to do and I couldn’t turn it down.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kieran ‘Kez’ Brown joins Manchester City - videoThough non-sports games such as League of Legends and Counterstrike dominate professional eSports, Fifa played both professionally and more informally is also hugely popular. A number of YouTube stars have also built huge followings largely by filming themselves playing the football simulator for fun, including KSI who has more than 13 million subscribers. However, clubs are also investing in eSports other than football. Last month City’s rivals Manchester United were reportedly preparing to buy an unnamed European team of players on the recently released first-person shooter game Overwatch and in October last year major Arsenal shareholder Alisher Usmanov invested $100m in Russia’s largest eSports platform Virtus.pro.eSports overall is growing rapidly, with traditional media companies increasingly taking greater interest. Last month Sky announced it would begin broadcasting the UK’s first 24-hour eSports channel as part of an investment in channel owners Ginx TV which also included ITV.