If a single word can change the course of a nation, “Brexit” might yet be it. It was coined in 2012 on a playful analogy with the existing portmanteau word “Grexit”, when a Greek departure from the euro seemed to be on the cards. For an idea whose adherents like to promote suspicion of foreigners, it is perhaps odd that the “exit” part of Brexit derives from Latin rather than good old honest Anglo-Saxon. Do we really need to borrow old words from dead Italians to describe our proud wish to stand alone eating pizza on a floating American weapons platform? Meanwhile, the people of Northern Ireland have been airbrushed from the debate by the word: what we are talking about, after all, is a departure by the UK, not just Britain. But Brexit sounds dashing and sexy, even if referring instead to “UKsodoff” would be more technically accurate.The opponents of Brexiting, on the other hand, are stuck with the resigned moan of “remain”. (Why not “stay”? I suppose because you can’t really pronounce “Bstay”; but the ludicrous “Bremain” hasn’t caught on either, despite the efforts of a few poor souls.) Brexit is inevitably the active, adventurous option; staying is what people do when they are left behind after the Rapture. Do we want to ascend to geopolitical heaven or do we want to be sad-eyed remainders?The two camps also have different preferred names for the body across the water: remain tend to refer to “Europe” or “the single market”, emphasising cultural and trade associations, while Leave speak of “the EU”, just another enormous bureaucracy. According to an analysis of their social media posts over two months earlier this year, the Inners talk mainly about “jobs”, “trade”, “business” and “security”, while the Outers talk about “control” – especially “control of our borders”, which at the moment are protected by nothing more than miles of ocean, ships, armed guards and passport gates – and the NHS (sorry, “our NHS”: it is now against the law to use the definite article instead of the possessive pronoun when referring to our NHS).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boris Johnson attends a Vote Leave event in Stratford-upon-Avon. Photograph: Phil Noble/ReutersThe Treasury, a large majority of economists and international trade organisations have announced repeatedly that Brexit would be bad for the economy, but the elite politicians of the Leave campaign warn against believing anything that elites tell you. (Bravely, the Leavers even insist that the Treasury is notoriously rubbish at forecasting anything, which makes you wonder how they actually plan to run things post-Brexit with a government finance department that is so risibly incompetent.) Most of the country has slumbered on through all this, so, lately, David Cameron attempted to make a boring economic argument sound like a dramatic one about massive explosions, warning that a Brexit would “put a bomb under our economy”. Since actual bombs have lately been going off in Europe, this might have struck some as distasteful.The Leave campaign, meanwhile, complain about “Project Fear” and say all this is “scaremongering”, while jabbering on about terrorists and criminals flooding into the country from a Europe that is somehow both banana-obsessed and post-apocalyptically anarchic, like a greengrocer’s fan edit of Mad Max. “Scaremongering” is a word for the encouragement of fears that aren’t reasonable. But a lot of fears are reasonable. If I warn you not to jump into the lions’ enclosure at the zoo because the lions might eat you, you would be ill-advised to yell “Scaremonger!” as you scramble joyfully over the fence. Even less adroitly, Outers dismiss any negative talk about the post-Brexit future as “speculation” about “hypotheticals”. This comes up a lot in politics, even though it is obvious to all normal observers that when people are talking about the future, everyone is speculating about hypotheticals.As the debate reaches a thundering climax of public idiocy in the coming days, this column has some scientifically impartial advice for both sides. The Leave camp have already aped the US Republican party’s media strategy so successfully (relentlessly repeating falsehoods, such as the £350m-a-week figure, so that the “balanced” media feel they have to report them again and again) that they might as well go the full Donald Trump and adopt a cryptofascist slogan such as “Make Britain Great Again”. Meanwhile, the failure of remain so far to plug into any peculiarly British passion could surely be remedied by an appeal to the one great national emotion: “Leave the EU? Can’t Be Arsed, Really.”