Why is candlelight so beautiful? At this time of the year candles burn brightly to celebrate Hanukkah or Christmas, casting a subtle, ever changing light into the long, dark midwinter nights. We love this magic and ancient form of light – but why?Art can illuminate that – take the French 17th-century painter Georges de La Tour, entranced by the complex poetry of candlelight. In his paintings people hold, gaze at or are revealed by pale white candles and burning lamps. The ethereal brightness of the candlelight painted by De La Tour suggests both time passing – as the flame gutters – and the light of holy truth. In his painting The Education of the Virgin (1640) a book is illuminated by a single candle flame. The Virgin Mary’s reading is spiritual, as pure and luminous as that candle. In another painting by him, Job Mocked by His Wife, the candle reveals the timeworn body of an old man, and in another, a repentant Mary Magdalene sits contemplating a skull by the flickering light of a candle.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Job mocked by his wife by Georges de La Tour, c. 1650. Photograph: DEA /G Dagli Orti/Getty Images/DeAgostiniSetting aside their religious meanings, these paintings – as well as many more by the same artist – clarify candlelight’s beauty. Paradoxically, the candles painted by Georges de La Tour do not look hot. The small flame of a candle is more a source of light than heat, and that takes it out of the carnal realm. It seems to come from some other place, to be a piece of pure magic light: a sacred flame.It’s not easy to separate aesthetics and spirituality when it comes to candles. But there is another aspect of this source of light that fascinates De La Tour: its gentleness. Cast on a naked body or a contemplative face, it is soft, humanising, and forgiving. Then again, candles go out: their light is precious and time bound. Since no candle burns forever, it is always a memento mori. In De La Tour’s paintings of Mary Magdalene with a skull and candle (or sometimes an oil lamp), it is not only the skull that warns of life’s brevity. The candle flame, too, is mortal. Electric light is steady, long lasting and banal. The light from candles ebbs and flows, flickers and smokes, must be carefully lit and tended, and casts a light at once ethereal and kind. Georges de La Tour is far from the only artist to love it for those reasons. In El Greco’s painting An Allegory, painted in about 1580 to 1585, a monkey and two boys gather round a silvery candle flame whose pale light casts enigmatic, wondrous light on their faces. This is a supernatural light, casting its grace on the world. In Joseph Wright of Derby’s painting The Orrery (about 1766), a candle has been positioned at the centre of a clockwork model of the solar system. It lights up the model as the sun lights up the solar system. Yet it also casts its kind glow on the watching faces, revealing the joy of understanding as children are told about Copernicus. Wright’s painting An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump similarly shows faces by candlelight in an atmosphere of mystery and revelation. Wright reveals that science can have a spiritual power and beauty, a poetry – and candlelight lets him show this.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Enigmatic, wondrous light … An Allegory (Fàbula) by El Greco. Photograph: National Galleries of Scotland/Getty ImagesJoseph Wright's Derby homecoming: dazzling, daring – and still in danger There are two fundamental reasons for the unique beauty of candles, according to these artists: ethereality and kindness. The apparently bodiless being of a candle flame, passing constantly into nothingness, warms the faces that it shines on. It is a subtle, atmospheric, and loving light. When candles are burning we feel better about the world. They light the soul.