What inspired you to write about treehouses? Did you have a treehouse when you were children?Andy: My cousin, David, had a simple one platform up in an oak tree. We played many imaginative games up there. When Terry and I get together to write and draw our books it made me feel exactly the same as I felt in David’s treehouse. I asked Terry if he could draw us in an amazing treehouse and the story took off from there.Terry: I didn’t have a treehouse but I had four brothers. There was never a dull moment… although there were many painful ones. In The 39-Storey Treehouse Professor Stupido uninvents everything in the universe. If you could uninvent one thing, what would it be? I would like to uninvent bananas because I hate them, and people always offer them to children.Andy: Terry. Because he is SO annoying. Terry: Andy. Because he is even MORE annoying than me.When is The 65-Storey Treehouse coming out and what new inventions will the extra storeys have? Please could you include a 1000 metre high slack line with lava pit feature? Andy: The 65-Storey Treehouse will come out in the UK in June and the levels are top secret so we can’t tell you what they are or we would have to kill you.Terry: What about the watermelon smashing level and the life-size snakes and ladders game with real ladders and REAL snakes… and my ninja snail training academy?Andy: You just did. Now we will have to kill Henry or he’ll publish our answers and tell everyone.Terry: Oops. Never mind. The sharks are quite hungry today.The 13 Storey Treehouse by Andy Griffiths and Terry Denton - review How closely did you base the characters of Andy and Terry on yourselves? Are you friends in real life? Andy: In real life I am brave and heroic, just like Andy in the book. Terry is crazy and mad and crazy-mad.Terry: Actually, it’s the opposite. Andy is much crazier and madder than me… He just doesn’t know it. That’s how crazy and mad he is.What is your favourite treehouse book so far and why? Andy: I am very proud of The 65-Storey Treehouse because we go flying through time in a time-travelling wheelie bin and fight a bignoseasaur.Terry: I like them all except for The 39-Storey Treehouse because I had to draw the entire world back into existence after Professor Stupido un-invented it.Were you both into writing and drawing when you were younger? Andy: Yes, I was always writing things that made my friends and family laugh.Terry: I was always drawing. I wasn’t the best in my class, but I drew all the time and gradually drawing became second nature.Who are your favourite children’s authors now, and who were your favourites when you were children?Andy: I love reading all sorts of books, both fiction and non-fiction. Please don’t make me choose because I can’t. But I do think Bill Bryson’s A Short History of the World is pretty amazing. As a child I loved Lewis Carroll and Dr Seuss.Terry: I was a big Tin-Tin fan. And MAD magazine. Anything with pictures, really. These days, like Andy, I read widely and randomly.Andy and Terry always manage to get their book finished in a day. How long does it really take you to write and illustrate each book?Andy & Terry: A whole year! There is a lot of rewriting and redrawing before we are both happy. And then we have to deal with Jill who edits the books (and writes many of the rhymes) who often makes us write and draw them all over again.The 52-Storey Treehouse by Andy Griffiths, illustrated by Terry Denton Has your publisher really got a big nose and what does he think about the way you portray him in your books? Andy: In real life our publisher is a woman called Claire and she has a very small nose.Terry: Her nose is no bigger than a full stop. Andy: Even smaller than that, really. In fact I think you could say she doesn’t even HAVE a nose.Terry: Or a bad temper. Do you, or are you planning to, write books together that aren’t in the Treehouse series?Andy: Yes, I’m going to write a book called THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MY LIFE (& NOT TERRY) WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY ME (& NOT TERRY).Terry: You wish. You can’t even draw a worm and ANYONE can draw a worm.Andy: Actually, I CAN draw a worm, it’s just everything else in the entire universe I have trouble with.Terry: That’s why you’ll never write that book. Andy: (sighing sadly) I know. I don’t quite know how to explain this, but you are always writing a book about the book you have to write, and then at the end, the story Andy and Terry are telling is the book we are reading. It’s as if the book is alive and is writing itself. How does that work?Andy: How would I know? I don’t even understand your question.Terry: Me neither. I think we should kill him. The sharks are starving.Andy: Let him ask one more question and then we’ll do it. Lots of your pictures have cheeky little penguins in them. Why did you choose penguins?Andy: Ask Terry. Terry: I don’t know. I just like drawing penguins, I guess. Hey, Henry, come here. Henry? Where’d he go?How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Andy: He just jumped out of the tree. Maybe he’s scared of sharks.Terry: Then why did he jump into the shark tank? Andy: Beats me.The 52-Storey Treehouse by Andy Griffiths and Terry Denton is available now at the Guardian Bookshop - it was crowned the best book in the Australian book awards 2015 (beating all the adult books). The 65-Storey Treehouse will follow shortly afterwards in June 2016. After reading this interview, we can’t wait!       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 