Even on a bright, warm day with the promise of summer in the air, Tintagel Castle is a wild and weather-battered spot. The Atlantic breakers pound the rocky headland as the wind whistles in and it is easy to understand why the spot has inspired poets, artists and dreamers.But a bitter row is swirling around the iconic Cornish site amid claims that its guardian, English Heritage, is guilty of the “Disneyfication” of the site. A new artwork depicting the wizard Merlin has been carved into a rock face close to the spot where – legend has it – King Arthur was conceived, while a larger than life sculpture partly inspired by the once and future king, plus a compass installation that may remind visitors of the round table, are to be added.In the next few weeks the results of a competition to design a new spectacular footbridge that will fly from the mainland to the island fortress will be announced. One of the favourites is a bridge designed by Marks Barfield, the creators of the London Eye, a structure called the Bronze Blade, evoking Arthur’s sword – Excalibur. It is all too much for those who believe such developments distract from the wonderful elemental nature of the place. Cornwall councillor Bert Biscoe has written to English Heritage complaining. “This is one of the most heavily designated pieces of landscape and archaeology in Britain,” he said. “If we start carving comic book characters into the geology, where do we stop? This is not Disneyland, it’s Cornwall.”A campaign group called Kernow Matters to Us (Kernow is Cornwall in Cornish) expressed horror at the Merlin carving and the other planned works. In a statement it called the carving “desecration” and said the changes were all about drawing more fee-paying tourists to the site. “Would this be allowed at Stonehenge, or at Dover Castle? What about something engraved in the white cliffs of Dover?” the statement said. The group said it feared that Tintagel could end up like Land’s End – a “tacky tourist attraction”.Some Cornish nationalists have long had a problem with English Heritage and its focus on places such as Tintagel as an epitome of Englishness. “Cornish history gets sidelined,” said Kernow Matters. “English Heritage concentrates on dumbed-down populist trash that they think will attract the punters.”The artist behind the Merlin sculpture, Pete Graham, said he was surprised at the controversy. “I think the people who have taken exception were waiting to take exception. They are angry at the English narrative around Tintagel. I think it fits in perfectly well.” Many local people are also content with it. Chris Grose-Callan, who runs the Cats Whiskers gift shop in the village, said: “I like it. It’s smaller than I thought it was going to be. Anything that brings in more visitors has to be good for the village.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Looking out to sea from the ruins of Tintagel Castle. Photograph: Heritage Images/Getty ImagesEnglish Heritage said the new artworks were all about telling the “rich and varied story” of Tintagel. The spot is believed to have been a seat of Cornwall and Devon’s dark-age rulers and a key trading settlement that linked the region with the Byzantine world.In the 12th century Geoffrey of Monmouth, arch-spinner of Arthurian legends, laid the foundations of its worldwide appeal by declaring the island fortress to be the place of King Arthur’s conception. Monmouth’s claims may have prompted Richard, Earl of Cornwall, younger brother of King Henry III, to build a castle on the spot in the 13th century. As early as the 17th century tourists started to visit and in the 19th century the explosion of interest in Arthurian legend and the arrival of the railways in Cornwall brought vast numbers to the site.Certainly, it is now a moneyspinner. Tintagel is now one of English Heritage’s top five attractions, drawing around 200,000 visitors a year and up to 3,000 a day in the peak summer season.An English Heritage spokesperson said: “We strongly believe that the new interpretation installations are not so large that they negatively impact on the visual appeal of the site, whose massive and rugged character will essentially be unchanged, and all new installations will be sited in order to minimise or avoid impact on the site.“We believe that the interpretation we have designed for Tintagel is well balanced in its content and imaginative in the use of different media – rather than damaging what makes Tintagel precious, it plays to the site’s strengths, and will be appreciated by the many visitors to one of the premier heritage sites in Cornwall, and in Britain as a whole.”