Writers are often asked – by friends, family, colleagues, acquaintances, total strangers – what we’re working on. For a while now, my answer to that question has been “a novel about a girl who has a face transplant.” And believe me, people have had some pretty strange reactions. About half of my friends assumed I was working on a sci-fi or fantasy novel, or at the very least, taking some pretty big liberties with reality. Even some of the doctors I reached out to when I began my research had no idea what I was talking about! Everyone seemed to think the idea of a face transplant was kind of unreal.And I have to admit, when I first heard of face transplants, my reaction wasn’t all that different. Before I began researching and writing Faceless, I didn’t know anything about these procedures. Even Maisie, Faceless’s main character, balks at the idea of a face transplant at first. A face transplant can’t be a real thing, she thinks. It sounds like something out of a sci-fi movie, a horror story, a mad scientist’s experiment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alyssa Sheinmel: Maybe whoever we’re becoming at any given moment is exactly who we’resupposed to be. Photograph: PRTop 10 best identity quotes for teenagers Once whoever I was talking to understood that a face transplant was a real – though rare – procedure, they usually had more questions. About the kind of research I was doing, about how I was structuring the novel, and often about whether a main character who’d been through something so extreme could be relatable to readers. “Aren’t you worried,” they asked, “that teens won’t be able to relate to Maisie?”I always answered no. Because while Maisie’s experience in Faceless may be singular, not looking the way you think you should look unfortunately isn’t.Most of us – thankfully – will never find ourselves in situations as extreme as Maisie’s. But a lot of us struggle to discover how much of who we are is tied to what we look like. How many of us look in the mirror and are occasionally disappointed, surprised – if not flat out shocked once in a while! – by the sight of our reflections? Sometimes it’s just a haircut a few inches too short or an outfit that looked different inside the store than it does at home, but the result is the same in the end. We see our reflections and think: That’s not what I thought I looked like.It can take many forms. You don’t fit in with the cool kids. Your hair is too curly or too straight. Your outfits are too dressy or too casual. The one thing that’s universal is the wrongness of it. You’re not supposed to look like this. You were born to the wrong parents, in the wrong town, in the wrong skin, with the wrong parts. I spent so much of my own young-adulthood wishing I had different hair, different skin; that I was skinnier, shorter, that my lips were fuller, my nose smaller. Often, when I looked in the mirror, I was actually surprised to find that I hadn’t transformed myself through sheer force of will.We need to talk about mental health without shame And yet, of course, I did change. The girl I was my freshman year (first year of university) was so different from the girl who graduated.And the change was more than physical. The 18-year-old me listened to different music than 14-year-old me. She watched different TV shows and read different books. She wanted different things. She was going different places, and with different friends. Things she thought would be the most important had fallen aside in favour of new most important things.Maisie spends much of Faceless trying to figure out who she is with this new face, in this new body – but at the end of the novel, she realises that her personality is so much more than a list of attributes. She would have changed even if she’d never been in her accident. She will continue to change for the rest of her life – just like everyone else will.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Maybe the truth is that we will never stop becoming who we are. After all, our reflections will go on surprising us long after we graduate from high school: one day we’ll wake up to wrinkles and sun-spots, just like we used to wake up to acne and greasy hair. The eyebrows that we thought were too bushy are now the height of fashion and the crooked teeth that kept us from smiling now give our face personality. The college we wanted to go to rejected us – and our safety school turned out to be the perfect place. We outgrew our old boyfriends and best friends. We got sick and tired of our favorite city and our favorite foods and our favourite outfits and maybe even of some of our favourite people.And maybe that’s okay. Maybe the key is to stop resisting all that change. Maybe whoever we’re becoming at any given moment is exactly who we’re supposed to be.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So, at the end of the day, it was always easy for me to tell anyone who asked that I wasn’t worried about whether readers would relate to Maisie. After all, if the one constant in life is change, then change is the one thing that all of us can relate to, right?Faceless by Alyssa Shienmel is published by Chicken House and out now. We’re happy to say it’s available from the Guardian bookshop too. 