When I lived in Nigeria, it was always said that there was more fighting in the weeks before the rains broke. Equally, in Pakistan and India, there is lots of anecdotal evidence to suggest there is more crime when it is extremely hot.It is the same in China and the US, where riots invariably take place in the summer, and there is a well-known increase in murders between the months of July and September. Warmer than usual weather appears to mean more people on the streets, more conflict between individuals, groups and countries, and more riots and rapes.A group of researchers have trawled the scientific literature and concluded from 60 studies, from Somalia and China to Colombia and the Middle East, that unusually warm weather generates more aggression and conflict, and can even lead to more political change. In parts of equatorial Africa, they suggest, every added degree of heat increases the chance of conflict between groups by 11 to 14%.The corollary, of course, is that climate change and global warming will add significantly to conflict in future.This is not new. The UN called Darfur the first "climate change war", thanks to the increased temperatures and advancing sands, and conflicts over water have long been shown to increase as sources dry up or evaporate. It is also well known that people migrate more and come into conflict with others in times of drought.But the American authors go further, saying that history suggests some present-day developing countries could collapse should the climate change substantially. "In extreme cases … entire communities, civilisations and empires have collapsed following changes in climatic conditions. These documented catastrophic failures all precede the 20th century, yet the level of economic development in these communities at the time of their collapse was similar to the level of development in many poor countries of the modern world – an indicator that these historical cases may continue to have modern relevance."They say: "Past climatic events have exerted a significant influence on human conflict, across the world throughout history."The authors, writing in Science, are careful not to say that climate is the only – "or even the primary" – driver of human conflict. What they suggest is that large climatic changes have been observed to "have substantial effects on the incidence of conflict that appears to extend across the world, throughout history, and at all scales of social organization"."If future populations respond similarly to past populations, then anthropogenic climate change has the potential to substantially increase conflict around the world, relative to a world without climate change," they say.On an individual level, they report, aggressive personal behaviour increases as temperatures rise. This can be seen in the increased hooting horns and road rage, players in football and other matches being more aggressive and in increased numbers of violent crimes like assault or rape in homes. Police officers, they say, have been shown to be more likely to use force in weather extremes.It is the same on a group level, they say. Fighting between Hindus and Muslims, "tend to be more likely after extreme rainfall". Equally, low water availability and very high or low temperatures have been linked to wider conflict. The number of Naxal offensives in May seems to point to a direct link between the increase in temperature and the frequency of the attacks. Other studies also suggest that wind storms and floods have an effect on civil conflicts and that anomalously high rainfall is linked to higher incidents of terrorist attacks.The authors urge more research. But they are convinced that climate has always had profound effect on the way we live and will have even more in future as climate change amplifies the risk of conflict.