AS Byatt, Philip Hensher and Susan Hill have joined authors backing Julian Barnes’s call for the Man Booker prize to exclude US writers once again, a month after Paul Beatty became the first American to win the prize for his novel The Sellout.Julian Barnes: letting US authors compete for Booker prize is 'daft' Until 2014, the Man Booker, the most prestigious prize in the world for a novel, was restricted to British, Irish, Commonwealth and Zimbabwean writers. Barnes, who won the £50,000 prize in 2011, this week criticised the decision to open it up to US authors. Speaking to the Radio Times, he described the decision as “daft” because it was no longer a platform for unknown writers outside the US to reach a global readership.“The Americans have got enough prizes of their own. The idea of (the Booker) being Britain, Ireland, the old Commonwealth countries and new voices in English from around the world gave it a particular character and meant it could bring on writers. If you also include Americans – and get a couple of heavy hitters – then the unknown Canadian novelist hasn’t got a chance,” he said.Author Susan Hill, who was a judge in 2011 when Barnes won with The Sense of an Ending, described the move as “a bad day” for British authors. “I am totally in agreement with Julian,” she told the Guardian. “This year saw the first US author win, but the dice are now loaded against UK authors in sheer weight of numbers in the US.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Dice are loaded’ … Susan HIll. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverHill said only one major prize remained open to British novelists without competition from the US: the Costa novel of the year, the next winner of which will be revealed 3 January. “I have nothing against American authors but they have so many prizes of their own,” she said.A spokesperson for AS Byatt, who won the Booker in 1990 for Possession and was shortlisted in 2009 for The Children’s Book, told the Guardian: “Dame Antonia agrees with everything that Julian Barnes has said about this.”'Well, that's the end of the Booker prize, then' Philip Hensher, who at the time of the change predicted the end of wins for British authors, said: “Pretty well everything I said was going to happen has happened.” In 2013, Hensher wrote in the Guardian: “It is hard to see how the American novel will fail to dominate. Not through excellence, necessarily, but simply through an economic superpower exerting its own literary tastes, just as the British empire imposed the idea that Shakespeare was the greatest writer who ever lived throughout its 19th-century colonies.”Novelist Amanda Craig said that literary authors fear that at a time when many struggle to remain in print, the removal of a specifically British and Commonwealth international platform will further undermine them. “The point is, Americans are not only different culturally but they have loads more support via creative writing programmes – they can actually make a living as literary novelists. We can’t,” Craig said. “A prize, or even just getting on to the longlist of a major prize, is not the difference between surviving and living but between surviving and not surviving, being published and not being published.”Echoing Hensher, she added: “The Booker was founded to stop the death of the literary novel, but opening it up to globalisation has meant that it’s probably adding to that.” It reduces British authors' chances of winning from practically none to 'seriously, mate, don't even think about it'Louisa Young Author Louisa Young, who has previously been entered for Booker consideration by her publisher, added: “Of course UK writers mind, because it reduces our chance of ever winning it from practically no chance to: ‘Seriously, mate, don’t even think about it.’”Barnes’s intervention has pitched authors against publishers and booksellers, who have benefited from strong sales of of the 2016 winner. Simon Heafield, head of marketing and brand at Foyles, which named The Sellout its book of the year, said: “The decision to admit US authors to the Man Booker prize has surely been vindicated in the awarding of this year’s prize to Paul Beatty, whose novel is exactly the kind of important, timely and original book that deserves the wider readership such a prestigious award can bring.” The book had received a “phenomenal reception” from customers, he said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Beatty after his Man Booker prize win. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianSales of The Sellout, a confronting exploration of race, identity and political correctness in modern America, confirm Heafield’s claim. According to Juliet Mabey, Beatty’s publisher at Oneworld, the tiny literary press that picked the book up after a tip-off, 180,000 copies of the novel were printed on the night it won and a further print run of 80,000 copies has since been ordered as a result of demand from UK booksellers.Mabey said that non-US writers’ fears that they will be shut out of the prize forever were unfounded. Oneworld, which also published last year’s winner, Marlon James’s A Brief History of Seven Killings, told the Guardian: “It’s about the best. Right now, I am looking at submissions from US and British agents and we are getting some cracking novels coming in from Ireland. I seriously suspect the next winner will be Irish.”Not all British authors are concerned. Will Self, whose novel Umbrella was shortlisted in 2012, was characteristically cynical. “Pets win prizes,” he said. “It hardly matters if they’re Boston terriers or British bulldogs, the important thing is that prizes have come to dominate the literary world because they’re effective marketing tools in a cultural era in which genuine literary criticism and judgment has given way to febrile consumerism.”The Man Booker prize declined to comment.