The first season of First Contact both intrigued and disturbed me. I vividly remember the episode in which the participants travelled to Elcho Island and were introduced to the local Indigenous people’s approach to hunting turtles. One turtle had been caught too late in the day and tradition demanded the animal be kept on its back, alive, overnight, before being slaughtered. I couldn’t see that act as anything other than cruel and unnecessary. My bleeding heart lefty concern for animal welfare was thrown into conflict with my bleeding heart lefty concern for the First Australians. I didn’t know what to think. The show wasn’t giving me easy answers. To employ a tortured pun, this program didn’t deal in “black and white” – it explored the grey.Tom Ballard, Zoe Coombs Marr and True Aussie Patriots: why risk politics in comedy? First Contact is based on the premise that six out of 10 Australians have little to no meaningful contact with Indigenous Australians. It tries to change that by taking six white Australians – in my case, blindingly white – and throwing them into the deep end of Indigenous Australia.When I was approached to be one of the six “well-known Australians” for the show’s second season, I was immediately keen. Well, my immediate thought was, “Josh Thomas must be busy” – I ignored that and said yes. Until then, my interactions with Indigenous people had been largely professional: I’d interviewed some Indigenous artists on radio and toured with some Indigenous comedians. But I couldn’t recall having a single personal conversation with an Indigenous person about their indigeneity. I wanted to learn more. I wanted to take on this once-in-a-lifetime experience and hear firsthand from Indigenous Australians about what it means to be black in this country. I wanted to shut up and listen, have my preconceptions challenged and my eyes opened. I wanted to wade into that grey.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  First Contact on SBS: meet the participants For four weeks, I travelled to some of the most remote parts of northern Australia alongside actor Nicki Wendt, TV presenter Ian “Dicko” Dickson, model Renae Ayris, singer Natalie Imbruglia and One Nation cofounder David Oldfield. We drove for hours and hours, across desert and water. We crammed into tiny propeller planes and flew through storms. We stayed in resorts and motels and a prison. We bunkered down in an overcrowded council house. We slept on a beach under the stars while a crocodile watched us from the water. I laughed, I cried, I got sunburnt and at one point I threw up – apparently my sensitive suburban stomach was not quite ready for fresh kangaroo cooked on corrugated iron. I doubt that any single TV show could truly do justice to the vast complexities of the challenges facing Indigenous Australia but, in our limited time, we certainly had a crack. We reckoned with the realities of alcohol abuse, suicide, tradition, culture and lore, constitutional recognition, housing and poverty, incarceration rates, the stolen generations, education, language and symbolism. We met some extraordinary Indigenous people who were gracious enough to welcome us (and our cameras) into their homes and tell us about their lives, their culture and their view of history. Some of them are proud leaders in their community, dedicated to improving their people’s lot. Others are still recovering from and are furious about the impact that Australia’s structural racism has had on their lives. Others, like so many of their fellow citizens, are just trying to get by.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We slept on a beach under the stars while a crocodile watched us from the water’: Tom Ballard in Bawaka Homeland, East Arnhem Land, Northern Territory. Photograph: David Dare Parker/SBS Of course, all this is mixed in with some blistering arguments and cheesy TV tropes. Quick tip: if you take a drink every time you hear us say the word “journey” you won’t make it past the first ad break. I think this show raises important questions and challenging ideas for anyone who cares to watch it, no matter where your politics lie. My lefty sensibilities were certainly shaken up. When a proud, entrepreneurial Indigenous leader looks you in the eye and tells you intergenerational welfare is killing his community, you’re compelled to think twice about government spending. When you meet a man with brutal scars along his neck and arm as a result of being speared by his tribe when he was a child, you’re confronted with the truth about some elements of Indigenous culture. When you’re doing the rounds with a sobering-up bus and come across a collapsed elder in a park, an empty bottle of cheap wine lying beside him, you begin to think that maybe some communities would be better off without any grog right now.  At the same time, some of my preconceived ideas and sympathies were confirmed. I saw for myself the beauty of Indigenous connection to country and the fundamental role that family, language and culture play in Indigenous people’s lives. I heard gut-wrenching stories of children being taken away from their families, institutionalised and abused for no good reason whatsoever. I saw a willingness in many Indigenous leaders to engage and work with the rest of Australia, so long as white Australia recognised their history and identity and what that means. I had my white, middle-class privilege exposed for all to see. And I saw the damaging impact of a dismissive, white imperialist approach to these issues.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I saw for myself the beauty of the Indigenous connection to country.’ Photograph: David Dare Parker/SBS David Oldfield and I, in particular, disagreed on what to take away from our shared experience. I admire David’s passion for the welfare of children and animals and we had quite a few moments of congeniality and good humour during the trip. But I saw little evidence of him truly listening to what First Australians were telling us. I've cried researching my show on refugees. And that's just from reading my own jokes | Tom Ballard  Opposition to constitutional recognition, disputes about the stolen generations, dismissal of the importance of Aboriginal languages, the denial that Aboriginal culture contains anything unique or valuable, the broad rejection of any notion of “white guilt” or white responsibility – these are realities in public discourse in mainstream Australia today. One Nation is back, we still celebrate ourselves on 26 January and a man who boycotted the apology to the stolen generations because he did not think it would change anything is the current minister for immigration. We still have a long way to go. We are yet to truly reckon with our past and who we are.I feel extremely lucky to have been a part of this season of First Contact. I sincerely hope the program, in all its grey, will help further the conversations that Australia has to have.• First Contact season 2 premieres Tuesday 29 November at 8.30pm AEDT simultaneously on SBS and NITV.