Dearest Billy, I have a feeling you’re going to be a bit confused when you read this after seeing the film, as on screen your two possible Dads were Mark Darcy and some other American bloke (whose name I can’t remember because I got a bit pissed and slept through it), while in this book your two possible dads are Mark Darcy and Daniel Cleaver. Well, the thing is, Hugh Grant got a bit sniffy about appearing in another film and, by the time I remembered, I had already written three-quarters of the book in the course of a drunken weekend. Anyway, as you will already know from the last book that Mark actually died three years ago, you’re probably not going to be too bothered. Sorry about all this and everything, but the money they were offering was irresistible. Love Mum (Bridget) x24 June 10.02am Look out the window and there are literally hundreds of pregnant women wandering around. Why am I the only childless person in the world? 10.03am Just remembered I am supposed to be godmother to Magda’s 17th child today. 1.07pm Car broke down on way to christening. Am going to be hideously late. 2.45pm Mark Darcy arrives by helicopter. No one told me he was also going to be a godparent. Totes embarrassed but trying to be a grown up. Even though I am still writing like a teenager.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Matthew BleaseFive years earlier Soz everyone. Just remembered that not everyone will remember who Mark is. Anyway we were having this engagement party when Daniel Cleaver turned up and lifted up my skirt to look at my big pants. This probably doesn’t sound that funny but trust me on screen everyone would be laughing. Anyway Mark threw a wobbly and called off the wedding.Back to Now! The next day or thereabouts 11.54pm OMG. Never thought I’d have sex again but Mark and I are shagging like rabbits. 11.55pm Mark has done a runner. Says it’s too soon after the divorce.The day after Back to work at TV station where I do something for Britain Sits Up though can’t quite remember what as am still endearingly scatty. Text from Daniel: Hi Jones, Would you like to come to book awards tonight? PS I am now rewriting Time’s Arrow only with time going forward. This is best gag in book and will have Julian Barnes rolling with laughter at the ceremony. 3.25am Whoops. I seem to have also just shagged Daniel as well. Blokes are sometimes like buses.4 September Calories 12,894. Sorry, had to put that in for old times’ sake.8 September 7.01pm Have just realised I am pregnant and I don’t know who the dad is. What a bummer. Text Mark. I think I may be having your baby. Text Daniel. I think I may be having your baby. 7.02pm. Both text back to say WTF?9 October 10am Time for scan and both Mark and Daniel turn up. Very funny scene when gynaecologist thinks I am surrogate and Mark and Daniel are a gay couple. Come to think of it, this probably works better as a scene in the screenplay.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bridget Jones’s Baby: The Diaries, Cape, £12.99 Photograph: PANovember Both Mark and Daniel aren’t talking to me because they are both having a mid-life crisis. I am all alone and am going to be a single mother.13 December 7.03am Maybe Mark and Daniel aren’t having a mid-life after all. Sorry I am making this up as fast as I can type and haven’t really thought it through. 7.04am More of the same. 7.05am Yet more of the same. 7.06am Still yet more of the same.January Resign from my job. Hooray! Who wants to work?15 February I seem to have come over all ditzier than usual. Audiences will love this. Have put on my big pants back to front!12 March 11.47am Mummy is having a tizzy about me being an unmarried mum and says I can’t come to the village fete which the Queen will be opening later as it would embarrass Her Maj. Publisher thrilled I have managed to get a member of the royal family into book. Thinks American audiences will love it.23 March 5.56am Your birthday! Big confusion. First Mark wasn’t going to turn up then he did and then Daniel wasn’t going to turn up and then he did and then you were almost born in the car but luckily everything ended up all right and here you are. 5.57am Mark: “Can I marry you?” Daniel: “Can I fuck you, Jones?” ROFL 7.36am That’s about it. Hope you like it, Billy. But even if you don’t, you’ll love the royalties.Digested read, digested: Bridget Jones’s baby boom.