“Britain’s panto dwarves are grumpy at being frozen out by average height actors” reported the Telegraph on Monday. At this time of year, newspapers like to trumpet a “dwarf shortage”, or something to similar effect. This year, it has been reported that a pantomime company is choosing to employ taller actors in a production of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs as they charge lower rates than actors with dwarfism.People with dwarfism deserve respect – not ridicule | Kiruna Stamell I am an actor and I have dwarfism, but I’m not grumpy. I’ve actually never played one of the seven dwarves – I’ve always wanted to be more progressive in my approach to acting roles, smashing societal expectations rather than conforming to them. But that’s my personal choice, and I judge no actor for doing Snow White.There are an estimated 6,000 people with dwarfism in the UK. Despite how it can appear in the media, most are not entertainers or actors. They have “normal” jobs and the same hopes and aspirations as the rest of the population. Consequently, finding a person with dwarfism who is a professional actor with the experience and the talent you’re looking for is not easy. Rarity and lack of availability should make it no surprise that actors with dwarfism, in a production of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, can command a higher rate. And let’s not forget they are a significant part of the marketing of the production.That’s not to say that I don’t have issues with Snow White. Not with the play itself – when the characters are well-written and played by talented actors who are allowed to shine, it’s wonderful. But it has somehow become many people’s only experience of someone with dwarfism; so much so that many believe this play is the only thing dwarves do. When I tell people I am an actor it’s often their automatic assumption. Many non-actors with dwarfism also experience this assumption from strangers.I will do panto, but I choose to play roles not traditionally played by a person with dwarfism. My first panto role was as Tinker Bell in Peter Pan and this year I’m Willowsnap (good fairy) in Hackney Empire’s Sleeping Beauty. Is my height exploited by these roles or does it enrich them? Every actor brings their body to a role. I can’t leave being a dwarf behind me; whatever I do, I will be a person with dwarfism doing it. But when characters are well written, dynamic and interesting, that’s what excites me as an actor.Disabled actors need to be allowed to play characters – with their disabilities present – but in productions where their disabilities are not the sole focus. I have bigger dreams for actors from diverse communities. Look at the awesome Lisa Hammond playing Donna Yates in EastEnders. Hammond, Liz Carr and RJ Mitte are among a slow trickle of actors with disabilities appearing on stage and screen.We’ve had all the insults. Now we’re reclaiming the language of disability | Penny Pepper Not hiring people with dwarfism to play the seven dwarves in this case seems to be a financial choice on behalf of the Qdos entertainment group. We shouldn’t be indirectly mocked by an average-height actor “pretending” on their knees. And nothing offends me more than an adult actor with dwarfism being replaced by a child. “Nothing about us without us” has long been the call to action of minority groups. We want to be included. Excluding us leads to mistakes in how we are represented and discriminates against us by shutting us out.This removal of disabled people and difference from public view, employing non-disabled people to “replicate” our disabilities, happens all the time. Take the Snow White and the Huntsman movies, which used computer graphics to replicate achondroplasia, a specific condition most commonly recognised as giving those who have it a “dwarfish” look. Other disabilities are also experiencing this; look at Eddie Redmayne cast to portray Stephen Hawking in the recent biopic.So, should Snow White’s dwarves be played by actors with dwarfism? Definitely. But dwarves should also be playing other roles, such as the prince, princess and dame. And people with dwarfism, including actors, are about more than just panto. Disabled people should be everywhere, on our stages and screens, and not solely defined by our bodies.