The only respiratory malfunction likely to be caused by meat products from animals with bovine tuberculosis is hyperventilation on the pages of the Sunday Times, the Daily Mirror, the Sun and the Daily Mail.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) categorised reports in the past few days that humans were at risk of contracting TB from eating meat as "irresponsible scaremongering". It also rejected the assertion that badger culls were being planned primarily to protect human health.The fuss focused on the supply of "TB meat" to school, hospital and military canteens. This meat had been sourced from animals infected with the bacterium Mycobacterium bovis, which causes bovine TB.The Food Standards Agency (FSA) said there was no record of humans contracting the disease through the consumption of meat and that careful safeguards surrounded the slaughtering and supply of meat to the food chain. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) last week described the threat of transmission through meat products as "negligible".FSA chief scientist Andrew Wadge said that the Agency has an inspector on site at every abattoir in the UK:"They inspect animals before slaughter for signs of sickness, and then the carcasses are inspected for visible TB lesions. If they find them in one organ or bit of the carcass, that part will be removed, along with the associated lymph nodes, and the rest of the carcass is allowed into the food chain. If, however, lesions are visible in more than one part of the animal, it is rejected as unfit for people to eat because this suggests there is more generalised infection."Lesions of TB in the muscle or bone tissue of cattle, in other words the meat, are extremely rare in TB infected cattle and even if they were present in meat, cooking would destroy them. One useful thing to remember is that we have been eating meat from TB reactor cattle for many, many years. These factors, together with the lack of any documented evidence of human infection from meat, are the reasons the risk is assessed as very low."Bovine TB is typically airbourne and requires close proximity to the carrier to spread. Bacteria are released into the air by the sneezing and coughing of infected animals. Outside the cattleyard, the major risk of transmission to humans lies in the presence of bacteria in unpasteurised milk.Across Britain only 0.5-1.0% of human TB cases, fewer than 40 people a year, are related to Mycobacterium bovis. The majority of these cases occurred in people over the age of 45 and, according to the NHS, were probably recurrences of decades-old infections contracted before milk pasteurisation and meat inspection were common in the UK.Wadge said that the "vast majority" of human TB cases are caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a close relative of the bovine form. Humans generally contract this disease via the respiratory route.