More than 95 miles of new coastal path will open in a few weeks as the government strives to meet its pledge to complete the England Coast Path on schedule. The new sections will almost double the length of coastal path that has already been created as part of the project.The paths will cover parts of the coast of Somerset and will help to link the South West Coast Path, which ends at Minehead, with the town of Aust, near Chepstow, where the Wales Coast Path begins. In addition, new sections of path are to be opened in Kent in a few weeks.The announcement of the impending completion of the coast paths marks the 50th anniversary of the creation of the first national trail in England, the Pennine Way, which opened in 1965. “None of us lives farther than about 75 miles from the sea and most of us much closer,” said environment junior minister Rory Stewart, “so it is vital the public has easy access to our outstanding coastline”.The coastal route has had a distinctly troubled past. Announced in 2007, by the then environment secretary David Miliband, the England Coast Path was intended to open up the entire English shoreline to walkers by joining up the country’s 11 coastal paths to make a continuous national trail. At the time, only about half the coast of England was accessible to the public.However, the path seemed to go nowhere for the first few years of its existence. By summer 2013, only 20 miles of new route had been completed and it was predicted then that at the very best only 40% of the path would be completed by its 2020 target date.The plan also raised strong objections from landowners. According to one report, one peer claimed that public access to the coast would lead to drug parties being held on the route while supermarket trolleys would be scattered along beaches.However, in December 2013, the government announced it would make a significant increase in funding for the project with the aim of completing it by 2020. It should then be possible to walk 2,790 miles from the Scottish border near Bamburgh down the east coast of England, round the Kent coast, along the south of England to join the existing South West Coast Path at Lyme Regis. Walkers would then take this path round Land’s End and across the Exmoor coast to Chepstow, where they could join the 870-mile Wales Coast Path, opened in 2012, which ends at Queensferry.There walkers will be able to rejoin the England Coast Path, which will take them north to Gretna on the Scottish border. Completing the trip round Britain is then straightforward, as there has long been free access to Scotland’s coast.“We are on target and have built a momentum to complete the entire route by 2020,” said Andrew Sells, chairman of Natural England. “This is the most significant footpath project for a generation.”In addition to the routes that will be opened in Somerset and Kent, work has also begun in Essex, Devon, Hampshire, Lincolnshire and Lancashire on coastal paths. Coordinated by Natural England, the new routes are expected to lead to the final completion of the England Coast Path in 2020.It is hoped the route will create major boosts in tourist revenue. The South West Coast Path alone is thought to generate around £300m a year, supporting more than 7,500 jobs, while it has been estimated that, for every £1 spent on the Pembrokeshire coastal path, £57 is generated in tourist spending.ISLAND NATIONEngland’s coastline is 5,580 miles. This reaches 6,261 if the Isle of Wight, Lundy and the Scilly Isles are included.Wales’s coastline is 1,317 miles long, or 1,680 if Anglesey and Holyhead are included.Scotland’s coastline is 4,174 miles, or 11,550 miles if the islands are included.Source: the British Cartographic Society