“I love reading but I just don’t have the time any more.” How often do I hear that? Regularly. Too often from people who used to read my novels but who haven’t lately, and feel compelled to run the “it’s not you, it’s me” line. Which, I guess, is at least better than the alternative.Nick Earls on the unlikely rise of the novella, star of the ebook revolution I know where they’re coming from. With the right book in my hand and the time to appreciate it, reading is still one of my favourite things to do. But how often do I do it? Honestly? Not as much as I once did. While most of us still identify as readers of books, the number who actually go to the trouble of reading them is trending down. In a 2014 Roy Morgan poll, 50.3% of Australians had read a novel in the past three months. A novel. In three months. That’s four per year. Not exactly a high bar to set.Now more than ever, writers seem to be writing books fat enough that you could break a bone if you stepped off them, but Jonathan Franzen’s inability to write Purity in under 563 pages isn’t the sole reason many of us are reading less. The big factors are, I suspect, a lot less literary.On 21 December 2012, when Gangnam Style clocked up its billionth view on YouTube, I did the maths. If each play had involved one viewer and that viewer had watched to the end, Psy and his pony dancing had accounted for more than 50 million hours of human activity. Fifty million hours not curing cancer. Fifty million hours not starting wars. I’m not saying it’s all bad, but it is 50 million hours.What would we have all done if we hadn’t been watching Gangnam Style in 2012? Let’s suppose a fifth of that time might have gone into reading. Ten million hours. That’s the equivalent of about a million novels worth of reading that didn’t happen. Because of one video on YouTube. One video among millions on one platform among many.Add Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp, WeChat, Tumblr, Pinterest and the people who end up turning the lights out at MySpace and Bebo, and the hours really start to rack up. On top of that we have news sites, gossip sites, several million cat memes of varying levels of hilarity and a video game market that hit US$60bn worldwide the year Psy made it big, and that doesn’t even include the millions of games we download legally for nothing and play until we find ourselves slicing fruit with the dexterity of actual ninjas.The big short – why Amazon's Kindle Singles are the future Remember when TV was something we had to wait for, and our options were limited? Well, hey Presto, it’s Stan, Netflix, iView and so many free-to-air channels, I’m starting to wonder if any house in America is now renovated by anyone other than a photogenic couple with a TV deal.And, oh, yes, there’s also work, family, study. Those 20th-century components of life didn’t go away when technology barged in.In the face of all that, novels get picked up and put down and picked up and put down and, weeks later and halfway through, don’t make as much sense as they should. So they don’t get finished and the next one doesn’t get started. Fat novels look impossible and thinner novels start to look unlikely. Months pass and eventually we realise we’ve stopped reading books.Meanwhile, on the peripheries of the publishing industry lurks what might be the form for the age: the novella. It’s not a short story and it’s not a novel. In size it’s somewhere in between, but there’s more to it than that. It goes deep without going long. It’s not a moment, but it’s not a month of interrupted reading either. It’s movie-length and it satisfies like a novel, but it gets you to the end the same evening.And the very thought of it makes publishers break out in a rash. The word “novella” arrived in English in 1902, but publishers have been ducking and weaving ever since. Because it costs just about as much to make a smallish book as it does a medium-sized one, and there’s a fear that bookbuyers buy books by the kilo.Do they? I don’t know. But pick any book you’ve loved. How often have you said, “I loved that book because it was so heavy”? Or so thick, or so long. How about never? We love the books that grab us and hold on to us and mean something. A great novella can do just that, at least as well as a novel, and yet it can be compact enough to fit into a pocket or a bag, and even a relatively hectic life.It also, of course, fits on to the device of your choosing. With ebooks, those size concerns of publishers busy binding paper simply don’t apply. An ebook can be as big as it needs to be. And the novella might just be the ideal commuter read. Take in half of it on the train on the way to work and finish it on the way home. Read it all on a plane flight from Melbourne to Brisbane.Audiobooks are booming – and now there’s a chart to prove it Or listen to it. Remember when an audiobook was a big clunky $70 box of cassette tapes? Great for people unable to read print, but other than that mostly the domain of travelling reps boning up on the seven habits of highly effective people, or how to close that sale. Now, despite that still being how many of us picture it, an audiobook is a digital file, playable on devices we all carry around with us. Millions of us are listening to podcasts on those same devices, often longform podcasts like Serial or Richard Fidler’s Conversations. Flick the switch from nonfiction to fiction, and the audiobook novella is waiting.Meanwhile, Gangnam Style racked up its two billionth YouTube view in May 2014.It’s time we made a stand. Let’s stop talking about being readers and wistfully remembering a simpler time when we once were. Let’s leave Psy to his own devices for a while and read a book or two, before he lassoes view number three billion. You don’t have to start with the uber-fat novel to make the point. The novella is there, for anyone with a phone, a tablet or a pocket, and it makes a pretty snug fit with even the busy digital life.Who knows? Soon you might find that Netflix will still be there tomorrow, that most night-time work emails can wait until morning, and that you can go hours on end without checking on the “like” tally of your latest Facebook post. • Gotham is the first novella from Wisdom Tree by Nick Earls on Inkerman & Blunt and is available as an audio book for free for a limited time on Audible, and as a digital book or in paperback, with launch events in Melbourne and Sydney