Some animals become such legends that they have the power to exercise human minds from beyond the grave. Lonesome George the Galapagos tortoise is just such an animal. Lonesome George rose to fame as the last-known individual of his species, “the world’s rarest living creature”. When he died unexpectedly in 2012, he went to New York for a postmortem makeover, reappearing last week in a temporary exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History. In January 2015, he is due to return to Ecuador (which owns the Galapagos, so has responsibility for the tortoise).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sketch of Lonesome George’s postmortem position, by Wildlife Preservations founder George Dante Photograph: AMNH/C. ChesekWhen Lonesome George is repatriated, where should he go? At the beginning of September, Ecuador’s Ministry of the Environment issued a press release suggesting that he would go on permanent display in Quito with a bronze replica going to the islands. But some Galapagos islanders are not happy. In a story in El Universo over the weekend, the mayor of Santa Cruz (the most populous island in the Galapagos) called the decision “outrageous”. “George is an icon and should return to Galapagos,” he is reported as saying. “We will urge the Minister of Environment to change her mind about this.”In response, the ministry released a statement saying that the Galapagos is still an option for George but stressing the reasons why Quito may be better. “Preserving Lonesome George’s body requires special conditions, like moisture, temperature, physical space and security, in addition to the annual retouching made ​​by the experts. At present, there is no site like this in the Galapagos.”“We do not disagree with the local and national community that believes that the best place to keep Lonesome is in his home, but as caretakers of this species, at least for now, this is not possible,” says environment minister Lorena Tapia.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lonesome George at the American Museum of Natural History, where he will be on display until 4 January 2015. Photograph: AMNH/D. FinninSo for the time being at least, it looks like Lonesome George will be heading from New York to Quito. There is, however, another option.After George’s death, I heard of a plan that had been mooted during his lifetime to take his conservation message to the next level. George would embark on a lucrative world tour, presented to royalty, photoshot with presidents and prime ministers, admired by jostling crowds wherever he went. In the course of his travels, he would raise awareness of the Galapagos, the plight of endangered species everywhere and millions of dollars for Galapagos conservation. The proposal was never taken too seriously, dismissed out-of-hand by the fear that the tortoise might perish during his travels. But now that he has passed on and there is a beautiful taxidermy that is proving a hit in New York, this is surely something that Ecuador should consider.I am sensitive to views of those in the Galapagos (and beyond) in their desire to treat George with dignity and bring him home. It is how I felt about him when I wrote my first book – Lonesome George – in 2006. But I am wary of being overly sentimental and I sense an opportunity. Like it or not, George became a posterboy for the Galapagos and for endangered species everywhere. He may not have been aware of his talents, but he was able to communicate the conservation message far more powerfully, with more dignity than most humans. I think we have an ethical obligation to allow him to continue his work on as grand a scale as possible. He should go where he can do the most good.This might be the Galapagos. It might be Quito. But maybe, first, it should be the world. #GeorgeWorldTour.