Born in London in 1969, Justine Frischmann studied architecture at University College London; there, she met fellow student Brett Anderson and they co-founded Suede in 1989. Two years later, she left the band and founded Elastica with ex-Suede drummer, Justin Welch. Elastica’s self-titled first album was released in 1995 and for 10 years held the record for fasting-selling debut; the band split in 2001 after releasing one more album. Frischmann now lives in the San Francisco Bay Area, where she works as a painter. A reissue of Elastica’s debut is out now on Rough Trade and a solo show of her art will be on display with the George Lawson Gallery at the Volta art fair in Basel, Switzerland, 12-17 June.1 | BuildingLa Lobera       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   La Lobera: ‘I love the use of woven wicker – it allows for a warm, filtered light.’ Photograph: Sergio Pirrone / WMR arquitectosOne of the architecture firms that keeps hitting me in the gut is WMR. They combine the rigour of classic modernism with an earthy, handmade palette, resulting in extraordinary, inexpensive and original buildings. They’re in their early 40s but have already completed scores of buildings, many of which are in the tiny seaside town of Matanzas, Chile, which I hope to visit next year. If I had to pick one project, it would be their cafe and gathering spot for surfers at La Lobera. It’s a network of indoor/outdoor spaces crowned with a low, long, simple glass box that reflects the sand dunes. I love the use of “mimbre”, a traditional Latin American woven wicker, over the patio and ceilings – it allows for a warm, filtered interior light.2 | FilmAmerican Honey      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   American Honey: ‘I loved the wild, magical, almost mystical portrayal of the landscape in this coming-of-age road movie.’ Photograph: Allstar/FILM4I’m a sucker for the American west as seen from a bus and I loved the wild, magical, almost mystical portrayal of the landscape in this coming-of-age road movie by Andrea Arnold. I also loved the tender relationship between the main character, who has run away to join a circus-like group of teenage sales people in the US, and the animals she keeps trying to save. Her familiar longing to save these little creatures from an unpredictable world is almost godlike and echoes the viewer’s desire to see her and her young friends safely delivered to a better future.3 | TVThe Cuba Libre Story      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Cuba Libre Story: ‘In preparation for a trip to Cuba, we watched this series.’ Photograph: Enrique de la Osa/ReutersI was lucky enough to visit Cuba this year and I loved it. My husband and I did a week-long workshop of rueda dancing, which is a kind of salsa in a big wheel of rotating dance partners, with a ton of crazy complicated turns. In preparation for the trip, we watched this Netflix series, which was totally fascinating. Cuba has had a long line of soulful poets, musicians, thinkers and revolutionaries. There is great footage of 60s Havana, with its movie stars and gangsters, and the young Che Guevara, Fidel Castro and Camilo Cienfuegos. The story of how a handful of young people, driven by an idea, staged a revolution and changed the fate of Cuba is almost unbelievable.4 | MusicElliott Smith: Either/Or Expanded Edition      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elliott Smith: ‘Start-to-finish absolute perfection.’ Photograph: Andy Willsher/Redferns/Getty ImagesSorry to choose a reissue for the music choice. I have to admit that at some point, I think my late 30s, I decided I had enough music to last me a lifetime and stopped being hungry for new stuff. Music still feels like a lifeline to me but like most other middle aged people, I’d rather listen to music I’m already familiar with. When I left London, I gave away or sold my record collection, most of which was covered in candle wax and jam. I still find it thrilling and the greatest possible luxury to be carrying around all my music in my pocket and be able to find whatever I’m looking for within moments. But I digress. I chose this album because it’s just been rereleased and so counts as something sort-of new. I completely missed Elliott Smith the first time round, I’m not sure how, and was introduced to this album by my husband. It’s now one of my all-time favourites – it’s start-to-finish absolute perfection. I don’t have much tolerance for sad music, but this is gentle and smart and somehow weirdly comforting, and it’s not depressing at all.5 | PodcastRadiolab      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Radiolab: ‘Weird, true stories about improbable subjects.’ Photograph: Marco LauThis is two guys, Jad Abumrad and Robert Krulwich, telling weird, true stories about improbable subjects. It’s my go-to for something to listen to while doing the washing-up, or if I need some human company after spending most of the day in the studio alone when my other half is not back from work. My all time favourite episode is Colours, which explores the physiology of the eye and the way we see. There’s a fantastic sequence where they use choral music to explain our perception of colour. Humans have three colour cones (occasionally four) in their retinas, but the peacock mantis shrimp, a tiny, very violent little creature that can punch with a speed equal to a .22 caliber bullet, has 16 cones and can see an infinite amount that we can’t even imagine.6 | Art showWendy White: Jeans, Rawson Projects, New York      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wendy White: ‘Her work tends to refer to common and accessible culture, transforming it into something more eloquent.’ Photograph: Wendy WhiteTo my mind, the best contemporary painting in the world right now is from Brooklyn, and I don’t think there’s anyone better than Wendy White. Her painting is subtle and extraordinarily beautiful; her layers of sprayed paint often create a kind of incandescence. Her work tends to refer to common and accessible culture, transforming it into something more eloquent. She’s been using football and sports fashion, particularly Adidas, as inspiration for a few years now. Her latest show is characteristically quirky and irreverent, using denim as the starting point. For me, her most powerful paintings dispense with the more overt low-art cultural references and are celebrations of pure colour and gesture.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Our Revolution: ‘Reading this book was a huge eye-opener.’ Photograph: Profile Books7 | Nonfiction bookOur Revolution by Bernie SandersI’m so ashamed that I bought the lie that Bernie had no chance of being elected if he won the Democratic nomination. Looking back, I think that was totally wrong. I’ve been ignoring American politics since I’ve lived here, partly because the system seems so messed up and partly because I believed Obama was genuinely a good guy and if he couldn’t do it, it couldn’t be done. Reading this book was a huge eye-opener. I’ve also woken up to the fact that I need to start paying attention and doing what I can. I was just in South Carolina with a friend, helping to register voters for the special election there in June. I hope the extremity of what is happening in the US now gives birth to a truly progressive revolution. The Women’s March was incredible and it’s been heartening to see how many grassroots campaigns are springing up.8 | AudiobookPolishing The Mirror by Ram Dass with Rameshwar DasRam Dass was a big-shot Harvard psychology professor in the 60s [under the name Richard Alpert], until he found himself in the office next door to Timothy Leary, which led to drinking the Kool Aid and getting himself very publicly dismissed. In an effort to find a more sustainable high, and to seek the origin of the truth he had glimpsed while taking psychedelics, he traveled to India and found his guru, Neem Karoli Baba. He came back to the US and became one of the archetypal 60s spiritual teachers who spread the teachings of the east to the west. He’s funny and wise and I love him. This book is a recently compiled collection of his writings. Ram Dass is in his eighties now and has lost the ability to speak fluently after suffering a stroke, so this book is read by his pal Rameshwar Das, who does a great job.