If it wasn’t for James May’s move to Amazon, The Reassembler might feel like a minor pitstop in his BBC career. Instead, it looks like Captain Slow’s swansong. In each episode, rather hastily rushed out over the next three nights on BBC4, the blokey tinkerer is confronted with a design classic that’s been taken to pieces. All May has to do is put it back together again and hope there are no screws left over.It’s a typically Mayesque celebration of classic engineering and while there’s a smidgeon of anxiety baked in to the format – if he succeeds, will the thing actually work? – there’s no time limit or countdown clock. It takes as long as it takes, and that suits May just fine.The Reassembler itself is reassembled from a segment on one of May’s previous pop-science vehicles. In the first series of Man Lab – a sort of Why Don’t You? for those into home-brewing and motorcycle maintenance – celebrity guests were challenged to complete a classic “man task” against the clock, like assembling flatpack furniture or changing a tyre. For this remodelled version, the concept has been stripped back (and not just because BBC4 budgets presumably necessitate a rather more austere approach).Each episode may only be only half an hour long, but they all have the relaxed, and relaxing, feel of Slow TV. There are occasional cuts to vintage footage to colour in the historical background, but mostly it’s May squinting at a sump assembly through thick-rimmed specs or stroking his silvery stubble before raking around in his toolbox.James May: ‘We are not in a race with Chris Evans’ Top Gear’ Moment to moment, May is extraordinarily good at describing what he’s doing, explaining what a carburettor is or outlining how a governor works. But as the hours wear on, he inevitably reveals his inner Partridge. “Adjustable spanners are the tool of the charlatan,” he declares, and he sounds so convinced you find yourself nodding in agreement. But there’s also a moment where he seems to lose faith, wondering aloud if anyone will tune in: “If a man is on television talking about a lawnmower but nobody sees it, does it actually happen?”While assembling a 1957 GPO Bakelite telephone – another absurdly challenging assignment – May drifts into a digression about the differences between UK and US telephone rings and offers his own impressions of each. When reassembling an electric guitar, specifically a cheap Japanese knock-off of the classic Fender, he riffs about Pythagorean tuning and opens up about his intense phobia of wires. It’s charming, transfixing and surprisingly intimate.May’s Man Lab and its precursor Toy Stories were breezily enjoyable shows but often felt self-consciously antic, with a weakness for Brobdingnagian stunts like assembling a life-size Spitfire like an Airfix model or building an actual house out of Lego. By ditching all the larks and reducing it down to one man pottering away in a workshop, The Reassembler uncovers something that feels far more authentic. It’s oily hands, sloppy jumpers, cups of tea.A recent ad showed Jeremy Clarkson spinning his Segway wheels while waiting to get started on his Amazon Prime Video motoring show, portraying him in a luxurious but lonely Assange-style limbo in a huge mansion. The Reassembler also feels like May is filling the downtime before he claims his new Amazon parking space. But you get the sense that if the small camera crew quietly edged backwards out of his shed halfway through one of his reconstructions, May would keep right on going, completely absorbed with his task. It might be the best thing he’s ever done.James May: The Reassembler starts tonight on BBC4 at 9pm and continues Tuesday and Wednesday.