“I think this was the first part that was offered to me that wasn’t specified ‘Latina’,’ said actor America Ferrera of her involvement in NBC’s new comedy Superstore, during the show’s panel at the Television Critics Association winter press tour in Pasadena, California on Tuesday.The former Ugly Betty star, who has not had a series regular role since ABC ended that show’s run in 2010, has addressed the lack of Latino representation in television and film before. Last March, the actor told the Huffington Post that although she was overjoyed to see Gina Rodriguez become the second Latina actor to take home a Golden Globe in 2015 following her own win in 2007 for Ugly Betty, Ferrera expressed dismay that there haven’t been more Latina winners over the years. “It’s a little disheartening to know that there are only two of us,” Ferrera said at the time.Superstore: Walmart-inspired sitcom isn’t such a bad deal During Superstore’s panel, the actor said she was surprised that Ugly Betty didn’t represent a “watershed moment” for Latinos on television. Said Ferrera: “We went off the air, and it was years until you saw another Latino [on television].”“When it comes to diversity and breaking stereotypes, and finding opportunities for non-white actors, progress gets made in these individual steps – and we should celebrate them and reward them, especially when they’re successful,” she continued. “But I do think it’s important to kind of also acknowledge that we have successes that don’t necessarily end up in up watershed moments for diversity on television.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   America Ferrera and Ben Feldman speak onstage during the Superstore panel discussion. Photograph: Frederick M. Brown/Getty ImagesFerrera did go out of her way to applaud NBC for what she deems a historic moment for television: this year, the network has three news shows fronted by Latina actors. On top of Superstore starring Ferrera, Jennifer Lopez heads the police drama Shades of Blue, while Desperate Housewives’ Eva Longoria is front and center in Telenovela, a parody of the popular Latin soap operas. “It’s a very special moment,” said Ferrera.Shades of Blue – Jennifer Lopez's cop show is a criminal waste of her talent Lopez, speaking during the Shades of Blue conference that followed, cited Grey’s Anatomy and Scandal showrunner Shonda Rhimes as having a major influence in advancing minority representation on the small screen. “To me, that’s when TV got interesting again,” she said of Grey’s Anatomy. The actor said that following the hit medical drama, seeing actors of colour onscreen has become “more of the norm”. “There’s been more of a shift in the past year or so,” added Lopez. “Television has always been great at reflecting society since way back – and pushing the boundaries of what’s happening in life. I think it’s no different right now.”Asked to look to the future, Ferrera said she’s “always hoping for the best”.“It’s not just about Latinos, it’s about Asian representation, African American representation. The more we talk about it, and the more about how its succeeding and of people being hungry to seeing stories like this, I think will encourage other networks to enrich their storytelling by reflecting the world that we actually live in.”Superstore airs Mondays on NBC; Shades of Blue, Thursdays.