• Spoiler alert: this blog is published after The Walking Dead airs in the US on Sundays. Do not read unless you have watched season seven episode 13, which airs in the UK on Fox on Mondays at 9pm.“I have fresh veggies,” said Enid, proffering a basket to the Savior lickspittle who had come with his chums to pay a visit to Hilltop. “No,” corrected the lickspittle. “They’re vegetables. Use the whole word. We have time.” We did, too. In this episode, an eye-rolling non-drama of deferral, we had time for every last pedantic detail. We had time for everything but action. The pre-credit montage set the tone with lingering shots of Sasha sharpening her stabbing knife. I don’t mean to be testy, but she was sharpening that knife in episode five. Was there whittling? I think I saw some whittling. What is it Comic Book Guy says in The Simpsons? Worst. Episode. Ever. I think I just watched it. This wasn’t the Walking Dead; it was the Pausing Dead.To clinch the point, there was a scene when Rosita and Sasha were holed up in a building with a view over the Saviors’ compound. They had furtively quit Hilltop and headed off to put a bullet in Negan’s brain. But instead of wasting the Saviours’ diabolical leader, they settled down for a chat while Rosita knotted ropes. “Will you tell me about knots?” said Rosita, unforgivably. “I know a bunch of them, but not those.” And then Rosita coached Sasha in how to create various rope knots, possibly including the the sheepshank, the Yosemite bowline and – my personal favourite – the monkey’s fist. If only the Real-Time Crochet channel had been invented I would have totally switched over.Simon’s Savior delegation came to Hilltop because Negan had made the jejune error of chucking his only medic into a furnace. He needed a replacement and Simon, the righthand man with the diverting moustache that looks like a portable homage to the glory days of Dennis Weaver and Burt Reynolds, was charged with the task of insisting rather firmly that Hilltop’s doctor move his operation to the Saviors’ compound. Poor doctor. He seemed to have been named Harlan Carson by his thoughtless parents. Or maybe it was Carson Harlan. Or Charleson Carlson. Whatever. The doctor, understandably, was not keen on the transfer, given the furnace-related opportunities for reducing his life expectancy. “Why does Negan need two doctors?” he asked Simon. The latter replied with a series of pouts and tics. If Stephen Ogg’s performance in this scene doesn’t win him an Emmy for Best Pre-Verbal Facial Contortion While Sporting a Retro 70s Moustache, it will be a disgrace. “People say I have quite an expressive face,” Simon added. What the contortions clearly indicated was that the previous medical incumbent had been totally barbecued and so his designated replacement should get his travelling shoes on lickety-split.While Dr Carson Harlson or whatever his name was and Simon went pre-verbal, Maggie and Darryl, fugitives whom Negan wants to bring into close contact with his barbed-wire wrapped baseball bat Lucille, were holed up down in the vegetable cellar. Are they particularly thick or something? The worst place to hide from the Saviors is where they store the veggies – sorry, vegetables – that form the basis of the weekly tribute. No matter. After Maggie stopped Darryl stabbing an interloping lickspittle, Darryl cried over the memory of Abraham and Maggie’s husband, Glenn, both battered by Lucille-wielding Negan 14 episodes ago, a murderous humiliation to Rick and his gang that has now catalysed Alexandrians such as Darryl and Maggie to want to take out the Savior trash. “I want to strangle all of them and watch them die,” said Maggie. Talking about it won’t make it happen.Over at the abandoned building with a view of the Savior compound, Rosita had apparently taught Sasha all she knew about knots. They had also managed to talk through their differences regarding the dead man whom they both loved, namely Abraham. So there was nothing for Sasha to do but lean out the window with a rifle and try to get Negan in her crosshairs. But, as happens in these drama-deferring longueurs that the Walking Dead deploys all too readily, somebody always walked across her shot. Eugene with his vile mullet, Lickspittle No 37.And then some interesting news came over the walkie talkie. “Negan will be indisposed in the boudoir,” said Eugene. That gave Rosita an idea. Go to plan B. Cut through the wire of the Savior compound and totally slaughter Negan in his bed, ideally sparing his many wives. So, that night, Sasha and Rosita cut through the wire fence. Sasha climbed through the hole and then did something unexpected. She closed up the hole so Rosita couldn’t join her in the looming slaying. Rosita and Sasha had already gone rogue – now Sasha was going even more rogue. The last we saw of her, shewas running in the direction of Negan’s boudoir.As for Rosita, she looked – as ever – cross. Possibly because she had to trudge off carrying a huge backpack. What has she got in that pack? Sandwiches? Hold that thought. In the gloom, Rosita thought she saw something. Could it be one of the Saviors now has her in her crosshairs? My money says so. It says, also, that Sasha won’t kill Negan, but get captured in the attempt. By Lickspittle No 85. Or maybe No 86.Simon saysOleaginous Gregory, Hilltop’s notional leader, thoughtfully offered Simon some gin on his arrival. “You’re a gin man, right?” he said, unctuously. Simon had certainly professed as much in episode five. Simon demurred. “I’m a man of shifting specifics, tastes and transition,” he explained with the gaudy patter that makes him ideal as Negan’s righthand man. “I’m into tequila now … Gin seems like turpentine. I’m an unusual kind of creature.” He’s something all right.When Gregory told Simon he was worried about being ousted as leader of Hilltop. “I hear your concern,” replied Simon. “I’m not insensitive to it. If you’re having problems of that nature come to see me. Any time … I’ll arrange it so that you just tell the guard who you are and they’ll let you right in – as long as there’s no shenanigans afoot.” Let me add this thought: if, in this hypothetical scenario, Gregory was at risk of being toppled (which seems quite likely, given the looks he keeps getting from his notional righthand man, Jesus), would Simon step in to protect this weak, booze-addled invertebrate from getting done in by angry ex-underlings? That was a rhetorical question. Simon enticed Dr Harlan Carson to come to the Saviors’ compound like this. “You like ice-cream? We have ice-cream. We have a lady who makes cardamom gelato, shit you not.” Really? Forget about the doctor, Simon. I’m totally there.