Whale watch boats and the coast guard on Sunday resumed their search off southern California for a blue whale that has become entangled in hundreds of feet of fishing line.Why are so many whales dying on California's shores? Federal marine officials said they were seeking assistance from boaters and pilots who may spot the 80ft whale. The whale has not been seen since rough seas forced rescuers to abandon efforts to cut it free on Friday. They managed to attach a buoy to make the whale easier to spot, but it hasn’t been seen since. A spokesman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (Noaa) said people should stay 1,000ft away from the whale if they spot it and should alert the coast guard. Boats, airplanes and helicopters searched up and down the southern California coast on Saturday. A Los Angeles County sheriff’s helicopter was among the craft searching for the whale from Santa Barbara south to Orange County.“My gut feeling is it went south” but its actual path remained a mystery, said Peter Wallerstein, president of the nonprofit group Marine Animal Rescue. “We’re having to look all over for it.”The whale was estimated to be 80ft long, twice the size of the average city bus. It was spotted on Friday in the channel between Santa Catalina Island and the mainland.The whale was towing a 200ft line with an attached buoy that may be from a crab pot, Wallerstein said.The whale was spouting, swimming on the surface and occasionally diving. It appeared healthy, if a little thin, but the huge animal cannot drag the line forever, Wallerstein said.“Eventually it’s going to get tired out and die,” he said.Blue whales are the largest animal species that has ever lived. They can reached 100ft in length and weigh 200 tons.Wallerstein said that while rescuers have untangled smaller gray whales caught in fishing nets, it was the first time anyone in California has seen an entangled blue whale and rescuers want to proceed cautiously.“We haven’t had experience with such a large animal,” he said. “One flip of the tail could kill you and knock your boat out.”With many people out boating for the Labor Day weekend, rescuers are hoping to get word of the whale’s whereabouts.Anyone spotting the whale should contact authorities but should not get near it, Wallerstein said. 