The countertenor voice can still surpriseOver the years people seem to have become less freaked out by the male falsetto voice – maybe because it’s more regularly heard in music now. But after one concert in San Diego back in 1990, someone came up to me, cupped me down below, and said “Just checking”. I turned to my companions: “Did that really happen?” I asked.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to the King’s Singers.Audiences are different around the worldA good Italian audience is amazing. Chinese audiences can be a bit restless and have have been known to answer their mobile phones mid-concert, although there are often ushers with laser pens standing in the aisles, poised to stop such behaviour. One of my favourite places to sing is South Korea, but their staple diet of kimchi means you can be knocked back by the potency of the garlic as you walk on stage.… talking of which, embrace the local cuisineI enjoy eating local fare, but it can surprise. Japanese sea jelly is an acquired taste, and its gloopy texture makes it hard to eat elegantly with chopsticks. I did try chicken testicles in Taiwan – they were surprisingly large.  Good vibrations... countertenor David Hurley.There are many incredible places on this planetBeing part of the group has enabled me to visit so many amazing places around the world. Yellowknife in Canada’s Northwest Territories is fantastic even at -40C. Quito in Ecuador is the highest official capital city in the world, situated at an elevation of 9,350 feet, up in the Andes, and, breathing aside, is a great place to perform. My favourite places are the cities located on great harbours: Hong Kong, Sydney, Stockholm, Auckland, New York, Seattle …I sit down … my impulse is to buckle upA while back I took my niece to the cinema to watch the latest Disney film, and, taking my seat, felt automatically for a seatbelt which wasn’t there. But I love the time spent travelling. In the air, I can read, or simply sit and think about things. It never feels like wasted time. Put a delay in the schedule, however, and time stands still. My book becomes boring, and the power on my iPad runs out instantly. I love crosswords and sudoku, and my touring life has been transformed by the iPad editions of the UK newspapers. During sessions for our CD Simple Gifts in the home recording studio of Status Quo’s Francis Rossi, he came in to pick up some guitars. Seeing me doing the crossword, he said he had it sent to him on tour every day. A couple of hours later he returned with his copy of the paper in his hand. “Have you got 12 down yet?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to the King’s SingersThere is nothing like standing on the stages of the world’s great concert hallsThe spirits of past performers seem to linger in the air at legendary venues like Carnegie Hall or Sydney Opera House. I love to check out the photo galleries that hang backstage in many venues. The conductor’s dressing room at Warsaw’s Philharmonic hall has photos of Stravinsky, Rubinstein and Shostakovich taken in that same room.… but there are some words every touring group dreads“I thought I’d take you on the scenic route to the hotel”. Being British we struggle to say “No, thank you, we’ve just flown 11 hours from London, and we’d like to get to the hotel as soon as possible.” I remember a drive from Chicago’s downtown Hilton to a suburb about 35 miles away. After 90 minutes as we passed by the Hilton for a second time, it became clear that our driver didn’t know where we were going. Eventually I insisted we should stop and buy a map, and, after nearly three hours, we did arrive at our destination. A couple of days later, the same driver failed to show for the pick-up back to Chicago O’Hare airport. Apparently their roommate thought they were looking tired (maybe it was all the driving), and had switched off their alarm clock.You’re not a true King’s Singer until you’ve sung Franz Schubert and Billy Joel in the same concertThe usual repertoire for countertenors is renaissance and baroque music, plus a bit of Britten opera and a few modern works. In the King’s Singers I regularly sing romantic music, jazz, folk, pop and loads of contemporary music. Performing and recording some great jazz standards with the legendary George Shearing was one of the thrills of my life, as was singing The Star-Spangled Banner before a Mets baseball game at New York’s Shea Stadium – surely something few countertenors have done. I love the variety that the King’s Singers has given me, but my heart is with the Renaissance repertoire, especially sacred 16th-century music: Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, William Byrd, Tomás Luis da Victoria, Orlandus Lassus.You never know when you’ll meet a King’s Singers fanI once attended a concert at the Tanglewood festival given by Itzhak Perlman and Emanuel Ax. I was taken backstage afterwards to meet both. I was introduced to Mr Perlman, and as I tried to tell him how marvellous his playing was, he declared that when he was relaxing at home with his family he liked nothing better than to order in pizza and play pool, with our Good Vibrations CD the favoured soundtrack.Try to stay on your feetI have only once fallen over mid-concert. It was during the performance of If You’re Gonna Play in Texas (You Gotta Have a Fiddle in the Band), a song by the country/bluegrass group Alabama. A great concert finale in the US, it ends with a do-si-do between pairs of King’s Singers. Reaching the front after his last turn, my fellow countertenor released my arm mid-turn, sending me flying.How Fair Thou Art: Biblical Passions by Palestrina is out this month on Signum Records. They perform at Cadogan Hall, London, on 30 April, David Hurley’s final concert with the King’s Singers will be on 6 August in France.