Ross Bleckner’s paintings are ethereal and gorgeous. They are like post-modern Monets. Whether he is painting flowers or a cerebral cortex he captures the fragility of life in bright flashes of effervescent colour hovering over nothingness. Bleckner paints tender elegies for a world that is always passing from the light into the dark.Alec Baldwin sues art dealer over $190,000 'original' that wasn't It is easy to see why the actor Alec Baldwin fell in love with a painting by this accomplished New Yorker. It’s a lot less easy to understand what happened next. Baldwin is suing the famous Manhattan gallerist Mary Boone because he claims she sold him a version of Bleckner’s 1996 painting Sea and Mirror on the false premise that it was the original.What exactly is he saying? It is not, apparently, that he was sold a fake or a print, simply that the Bleckner painting he bought is not the Bleckner painting he thought he was buying. It is a different version of the same subject by Bleckner. Got that? But it’s still a painting by Bleckner – you know, an original. Has Baldwin seen any other paintings by Bleckner or indeed any other contemporary art? Gerhard Richter paints abstractions among the many other types of picture he produces. Each abstract painting by Richter is different, and yet is it really that different? Richter makes his abstractions using chance and repetitive processes. They are like huge utterly entrancing reflections in puddles. Can anyone remember what their favourite Richter abstract is? Perhaps Alec Baldwin can. Perhaps he would also fret if his Andy Warhol screenprint was not an “original” or if he really had the original of Auguste Rodin’s Thinker in his garden. Modern art glories in repetition, seriality and self-reproduction and has done since Rodin made sculptures to be cast in multiple editions and Monet painted identical cathedral facades.Bleckner is very much a painter of our time and he works in a repetitive way. He has favourite themes and tropes, like recurring dreams. Grids and constellations, nervous systems and vegetation come back into his paintings in ways that vary gently within a certain familiar pattern. Surely, to love Bleckner you have to love all his paintings. It makes no sense to separate off one of his works and adore it alone. It’s like saying “I hate most of Warhol’s work but I really love his orange car crash paintings – only the orange ones, mind.”Warhol only makes sense as a whole. Bleckner, too, is an artist whose work is all of a piece and part of a great chain of delicate variations. The same luscious sensibility pervades his entire oeuvre. When you buy his art you buy a mood. Quite apart from who is right in this lawsuit, Baldwin has completely misunderstood the lyrical art of Bleckner. But there’s one good thing about the case: it will make an excellent artist more widely known.