All relationships are built on a foundation of trust. Donald Trump trusts Sean Spicer to be perpetually angry and confused, like a giant toddler trapped in a hall of mirrors, because that is, apparently, what he wants. Piers Morgan trusts everyone on Twitter to scream abuse at him all day long, because that is the only way he gets to experience human emotion any more. And, less public but just as important, I trust my wife not to watch episodes of Orange is the New Black behind my back.Because that is the absolute nucleus of our relationship. And probably yours, too. Between work and parenting, the time we get with each other is precious and fleeting. If we’re going to watch a TV series, we’re going to do it together. We’re going to experience all the highs and lows and twists and turns together, as a couple, and under no circumstances are we allowed to charge off on our own and leave the other behind.And yet this happens. A study from the streaming company suggests that an increasing number of us indulge in “Netflix cheating”. We are all sneaking off behind our partner’s back to stream an illicit solo episode of a series we had promised to share. The study says that nearly half of American subscribers have cheated like this in the past, and it often causes an argument. Netflix cheating is basically an ugly flipside to Netflix and Chill, where all the transient pleasure of sexual intercourse is replaced by unbearable tension and nightmarish reprisals.In my parents’ day, you couldn’t Netflix cheat, because television programmes were simply on when they were on. If you missed an episode of Dallas, you would have missed it for ever. You would have to go the rest of your life without knowing who shot JR. It’s a wonder how anyone managed to get anything done with that sort of pressure hanging over them. Now, though, since everything is available all at once, it’s a real test of moral fibre for people to watch at an agreed pace.You can understand why Netflix cheating causes so many fights. It’s a basic abuse of trust. If you have agreed that you will watch each new episode of a series together, only to gorge yourself when your partner calls it a night, it’s hard to tell what else you are capable of. Your impulse control is clearly blasted to smithereens. You probably have a secret chocolate stash in a cupboard somewhere, don’t you? You are probably having an affair with a neighbour. You probably creep out of your house at the dead of night and lease your children to black-market organ harvesters, don’t you?To my knowledge, my wife has never Netflix cheated on me. I have run all the basic checks – I have logged into her account and checked her “Continue Watching” submenu to see if she has been sneaking in episodes of The OA on the sly. Sometimes I will even read online spoilers of episodes I have yet to see, just to try to catch her out. “What do you think will happen to that dragon,” I’ll ask at the end of Game of Thrones, then scan her face to see if she knows that it will blow up a sheep or whatever. If I were ever to see any of those signs, that would be it for us. I’d stuff all her things in a bin bag and hurl them out on to the street. We simply could not survive with a betrayal of that severity.Luckily, we have communication in our favour. We both know that, if either of us are tempted to steam ahead with House of Cards alone, the best thing we can do is be upfront about it. “I need to know what happens to Frank,” we’ll say, “but I can’t because you’re in hospital having that operation.” And, from there, we can build a framework where we can both watch the next episode independently of each other, never discuss it, and then come back and enjoy the rest of the series together.We also have a clutch of back-up shows that are just for us. When things get really bad, these shows are our methadone. Sure, our bodies are telling us to plough on and devour the Stranger Things finale, but our heads remain cool. Our heads tell us that this is a prime opportunity to watch Comedy Bang Bang, because our wife hates it and we are forced to watch it alone like some sort of bloody leper anyway.This trust is the very foundation of our relationship. We know how wrong Netflix cheating is. We would never stoop to the depths of setting up a new account for our son – ostensibly because we don’t want our finely curated viewing algorithm to be upset by a rainy afternoon Timmy Time session – purely so we can use it to watch The Crown without the other one ever finding out. Well, my wife wouldn’t. Sorry, wife. I didn’t want you to find out this way.