It is a complex tale of murder, human trafficking, political corruption and domestic abuse set in an isolated Icelandic village, and on Saturday night at 9pm more than a million addicted fans will watch the final two episodes of Trapped on BBC4, hoping to unravel its final strands.The claustrophobic drama has been the most unlikely hit of the year so far, drawing comparisons to The Killing, Borgen and The Bridge and handing the international drama crown back to BBC4 after a strong challenge from Channel 4’s new Walter Presents service. It’s also made an unlikely sex symbol of its bearded, bear-like 6ft 5in star, Ólafur Darri Ólafsson.So what is it that makes this series such a success? Clive Bradley, who co-wrote the series with Sigurjón Kjartansson, believes that the Iceland’s eerie landscapes, dotted with icy mountains and frozen waters, form a large part of the appeal. “I do think that some of the reason people have responded to this show so strongly is because Iceland is a place and society that people don’t know very well and that seems fascinating,” he says. “The Killing and The Bridge are very urban shows and this offers something different. It’s so remote. There’s something almost poetic about the landscape.”If landscape is beautiful it’s also treacherous. Ólafsson, who plays local police chief Andri, says its location makes Trapped as much as horror series as a crime drama. “Two of my favourite films are The Thing by John Carpenter and Ridley Scott’s Alien and what both of them share with Trapped is that sense of being contained by your environment,” he says. “There’s a sense in Trapped that you’re not just up against a murderer, you’re also up against nature. That makes it unpredictable.”Cassian Harrison, the channel editor for BBC4, agrees. “On one hand it’s an almost Agatha Christie-style country house murder that happens to be taking place in a fjord,” he says. “But it feels a lot darker and slightly more frightening than other crime shows because of how isolated they are. There’s a real sense of horror tropes being played with as well.”It helps, too, that modern technology is largely useless in the isolated village where the show is set. Where other crime dramas have to dance in circles to avoid using mobile phones or simply Googling helpful information, this is a world where the electricity constantly fails, phone signals cut out and it’s easy to find yourself adrift from everyone you know. “That’s definitely a big part of why the story works,” admits Ólafsson. “It can be quite hard to do these sort of stories today because of technology. To me, that claustrophobia is part of the appeal and the rest of it is that this is really a family drama in a village dressed up as whodunnit. You might get dragged in by the crime but you want to know what happens to the characters.”There’s also a Fargo-esque quality to Trapped’s depiction of small-town life.Andri and his police partner Hinrika communicate mainly through the furrowing of brows and the odd raised eyebrow, seemingly having decided that too many words would ruin their relationship. “I absolutely relate to that,” says Ólafsson. “The thing with growing up in a small place is that you already know an awful lot about each other so chitchat isn’t a big part of life. Why would it be when you already saw each other five times yesterday?”So will the much-anticipated conclusion satisfy a growing army of devoted fans?Bradley and Ólafsson insist it will, stressing that the series reaches a believable conclusion. That said, hopes are high for a second season, even though the chances of more murder and crime hitting so isolated a spot would be Midsomer Murders levels of unusual. “Oh, I think you can have a bit of dramatic licence,” says Harrison.“Look at Inspector Morse – no one ever cared that murder rates in Oxford were never that high. If the story is strong enough then I think people don’t mind.”• Trapped concludes on BBC4 on Saturday at 9pm.