Meg Rosoff has condemned the government’s “assault on childhood”, saying that teaching and learning have become “joyless” in the UK.Rosoff is the author of seven YA novels including the international bestseller How I Live Now. She was speaking as she received the SEK5m (£410,000) Astrid Lindgren Memorial award, the world’s richest prize for children’s literature, in Stockholm on Monday night. She told her audience that she had met “too many children” in the UK “who cut themselves with razors, starve themselves, who suffer depression and anxiety, who believe what the government tells them – that nothing is more important than exams. That art and music and books will not help them make money. That it is OK to close libraries and do away with librarians.”There have been widespread protests in the UK over library closures, with more than 300 estimated to have been shut down over the last six years. The recent Sats tests, boycotted by some parents, have also been slammed by authors, in particular the teaching of writing and grammar which they say “no longer reflects what writing really does”.The diary of Meg Rosoff in Sweden – in pictures Rosoff told the award ceremony: “It is no wonder that teachers in the UK are quitting in record numbers. It has become a joyless profession. Learning has become joyless as well, and students are not able to quit. In Britain we are experiencing, quite literally, an assault on childhood.”In contrast, she praised the system in Sweden, pointing to the words of Astrid Lindgren, that “everything great that ever happened in this world happened first in someone’s imagination”, and saying that “someone in Sweden imagined that you could accept 6,000 refugee children into your schools, and that it would somehow be OK. That you could encourage writers for children, and even, for a week, treat them like rock stars. Someone thought that librarians and teachers were as important as bankers and lawyers. Maybe it was because someone had the idea that without the imaginations of children, there would be no hope for humanity.”The Astrid Lindgren prize is for work that “promotes peace, democracy and a humanist spirit and encourages understanding and exchanges between cultures and people”, in honour of the Pippi Longstocking author’s own values.Rosoff finished by saying that it was “an enormous responsibility to carry on the work that Astrid Lindgren began”, and that she was “not only grateful for the recognition this prize brings, but for a country that puts such tremendous value on children’s books and children’s imaginations”.