Hometown: Berlin.The lineup: Eden Leshem (vocals, guitar), Aviv Meshulam (guitar, synth, percussion), Dekel Adin (bass), Guy Fleisher (drums), Guy Gefen (congas), Dolev Nahoom Sanbira (saxophone), Ziv Sobelman Yamin (keys).The background: If the Weeknd’s dad had made an album of louche soul in 1975, during that period between the heyday of Philly and the advent of disco, just before Giorgio Moroder/Donna Summer’s electronification of dance music, it might have sounded like Hush Moss. The albumby the Berlin outfit is a creepily seductive collection of nocturnal R&B. Clever, too: it’s made by a bunch of young Berlin hipsters but should easily appeal to an older generation of superannuated debauchees reared on the mellow come-hither grooves of Barry White and the Bee Gees. If this music was a person, it wouldn’t be hanging out in a modern loft in downtown Toronto dressed head to toe in Alexander Wang XO and luxed-up sneakers, it’d be a sleazy lothario rocking a pastel pink suit and shirt unbuttoned to the waist, all moustache and chest hair, snorting powders behind the velvet curtain at a glitzy discotheque uptown. While wearing roller-skates.Hush Moss is the brainchild of Eden Leshem, a 23-year-old Israeli living in Berlin. He recorded It Takes a Lot in a studio by the ocean in Israel, all the better to achieve that coked-up rolled-up-jacket-sleeve 70s musician vibe. Not that any of the eight or so musicians involved were coked-up or wearing jackets with rolled-up sleeves, but they knew what the point was, and it was to recreate a sax-fuelled mid-70s funk-lite sound while negotiating a path between ironic tribute and sincere homage. “It’s both,” says Leshem of the puttering beats and pillowy keyboards. “You can say the references are funny, but it’s all stuff that makes us feel good, happy. We love what we do. We’re very aware that it’s ironic to the public, but we really love that shit.”He is very specific about what “that shit” comprises: Barry White, the Bee Gees, the Isley Brothers, even Abba, only breaking with the strict 70s-only rule by name-dropping Wham! The musicians also listened to a lot of Off The Wall-era Michael Jackson while recording – post-the 1977 watershed, but it counted because Quincy Jones used more musicians in the studio than machines. Some of the equipment employed – Roland Juno-106 synths, say – were also of later, early-80s vintage, but still, the gently burbling feel suited the conceptual time frame. Slowly Disappear is lilting dance music with a light synth wash and a wan ambience. Leshem says it’s designed for “casinos and love boats”. Like everything on this ennui-laden downtempo album it sounds like a hit song you vaguely recollect hearing at a discotheque on a foreign holiday as a kid: “Like a seven-inch that you find in a store and you don’t really know the band,” says Leshem. Always Gonna Give Myself to You is disconcertingly pretty, like Ariel Pink working with Gamble & Huff. Take Me By the Hand is an affecting synth-phonic soul ballad, like Stylistics produced by Lawrence of Denim. Jackie Brown would love Perfect Proof – you can picture her smooching to it with Max Cherry in her white pant suit. Or you can imagine a serial killer playing it to his girlfriend.“Wow,” says Leshem, somewhat taken aback. “That’s interesting. That’s the one influenced by Elton John.“I did try,” he concedes, “to be like a guy in a suit, a dangerous guy, maybe Bryan Ferry … ” He varies his voice throughout, from creamy falsetto to macho baritone. It wasn’t tweaked to achieve that low-register effect. “No,” he laughs, “we’re not that smart. That would be too artistic for us.”Have to Say, like everything here, has a washed-out, brown at the edges sound, as though it was once bright but left to fade in the sun. Then there’s In Reims, with its careless whispers of sax and air of decadence, Leshem playing the suave loverman to the hilt.What kinds of reactions does he get from “the ladies”?“I think most of them think I’m gay,” he say. “Especially when they see me dancing onstage. I’m quite Michael [Jackson] or Prince. Not that I copy them – I just like having fun representing myself as a guy. Also, I like to wear stupid stuff.”It Takes a Lot gets the period charm/smarm just right. Hush Moss sound like a million dollars, albeit at 1976 currency values. Could they be big sellers, or are they just Berlin hipsters?“It’s definitely a Berlin indie thing at the moment,” says Leshem, adjusting his medallion. “But you never know.”The buzz: “Pure elevator-music euphoria.” The truth: It’s the sound of sexy soul. Most likely to: Give itself to you. Least likely to: Slowly disappear. What to buy: It Takes a Lot is released on CD, tape and digital formats on 16 September via Average Negative. File next to: Devonté Hynes, Destroyer, Yehan Jehan, Aldous RH. Links: facebook.com/hushmossOnes to watch: Astrid S, Ricky Eat Acid, Collapsing Scenery, American Wrestlers, s a r a s a r a. 