Broadway sensation Hamilton is sure to be a mainstay on the Great White Way for years to come, but its creator and star Lin-Manuel Miranda has decided to move on.Less than a month after the 2016 Tony awards, where Hamilton has a record 16 nominations, Miranda, who also wrote the show’s book and music, will bow out on 9 July, according to the Hollywood Reporter.The contracts of many members of the current company are also set to expire around the same time, although none have announced their departure. The original cast is rumored to be seeking big pay raises, in addition to the profit-sharing deal they secured from producers in April.How did Hamilton become Broadway's breakout hit? Miranda is said to be leaving Hamilton to focus on a number of other projects, including a starring role opposite Emily Blunt in Disney’s upcoming Mary Poppins sequel, Mary Poppins Returns, which is slated for release on Christmas Day 2018. He will play a street lamplighter named Jack in the musical directed by Rob Marshall (Chicago). Miranda also recently wrote the music for the Disney animated musical Moana, which opens in November, in addition to selling movie rights to his first Broadway musical, In the Heights, to the Weinstein Company. He’s confirmed to produce the film adaptation, although it’s unclear whether he will star.The Hollywood Reporter suggests that Miranda also has a new stage musical in the works. Sixteen ways Hamilton transformed theater – and the world Miranda began his run in Hamilton in January 2015 off Broadway, at New York’s Public Theater, before transferring to Broadway in August. The musical has since won a Pulitzer, a Grammy and is sure to sweep the board at the Tonys next week.Hamilton’s producers have yet to announce a replacement for Miranda, who plays the titular role of Alexander Hamilton. Javier Muñoz is the actor most likely to step in: he’s currently Miranda’s understudy and substitutes for him every Sunday. He also replaced Miranda when he left In the Heights in 2009.This article was amended on June 2 to remove the mention of Jonathan Groff, who left the show in April and is not a current member of the cast as previously stated.