George Monbiot's article on the European Union's fishing quota is interesting, though not altogether correct (Who will protect these fish from our feeding frenzy?, 9 August).Of the North Atlantic's mackerel stocks, he says: "As the seas have warmed, the fish have moved north. When they arrived in Icelandic and Faroese waters, those nations argued that their mackerel fishing agreement with Norway and the EU should be changed to allow them to catch more." He goes on: "Norway and the EU refused, so Iceland and the Faroes tore the agreement up and each awarded themselves a unilateral quota of 150,000 tonnes. As a result, the north-east Atlantic mackerel catch has risen almost 50%, and is now well beyond the replacement rate."Iceland has most certainly not torn up any agreement on mackerel fishery. A comprehensive agreement on the management of the mackerel fishery in the north-east Atlantic is nonexistent. For a decade, until last year, Iceland's repeated claim for participating in negotiations was dismissed. By alleging that Iceland and the Faroe Islands are the driving force behind an increase in the mackerel catch, Monbiot sidesteps the core issue. If there's a question of mackerel being overfished, it is surely the joint responsibility of all parties involved. Playing the blame game will not get us anywhere.In recent years, large quantities of mackerel have migrated into the Icelandic exclusive economic zone. The area of distribution of the catch within the zone has also increased significantly, and mackerel have been located almost everywhere around the island. According to a joint Norwegian/Faroese/Icelandic survey in 2010, over 1m tonnes of mackerel – an estimated 23% of the stock – migrated into Icelandic waters during the feeding season. The Marine Research Institute in Iceland has estimated that the mackerel's weight gain is almost 60% during the feeding season in Icelandic waters. This has an impact on other fish stocks and the Icelandic marine ecosystem as a whole, and must be taken into account.As a coastal state, Iceland has the right to fish for mackerel within its jurisdiction – just as Norway and the EU have the right to fish for mackerel in theirs. The EU and Norway are not the sole owners of the mackerel stock. By issuing quotas for almost all the recommended allowable catch, they disregard the legitimate interests of the other two coastal states in question, Iceland and the Faroe Islands, as well as the interests of Russia, which also fishes from the stock.This totally unjustified decision has a built-in prescription for overfishing of mackerel this year. The lack of a comprehensive agreement on the management of mackerel fishery, however, needs to be addressed by all parties involved.As for the blue whiting, Iceland does not a have separate stock of its own. So Monbiot's allegations that Iceland has "more or less wiped out its blue whiting stocks" are unfounded. The total allowable catch of the blue whiting stock has, however, been drastically reduced in recent years by international agreement.