The playwright James Graham, known for his political plays tackling surveillance, the general election and the inner workings of parliament, is to write a TV drama about Brexit.Graham, whose 2012 play This House has just transferred to the West End, said he wanted to tackle the divisive mood and political anger that the EU referendum has generated.This House five-star review – James Graham's thrilling political play returns He said the drama would “specifically tackle” the referendum campaign and the events that eventually led to the vote for Brexit.  “I think [Brexit] is going to be the main occupying idea in all writers’ heads for the next five or 10 years,” Graham told BBC news. “That doesn’t mean necessarily writing a dramatic re-enactment of referendum night, I think it just means the new mood we’re living in, which is very different, a bit scary, very divisive, very angry, very confused.”It will be the second work by Graham to address the UK’s vote to leave the EU. He wrote a new play for the Guardian, titled A Strong Exit, which is set in a bunker below Whitehall as ministers prepare to trigger article 50.Graham’s work regularly takes on topical issues of the day. Privacy, his 2014 play, was inspired by the Edward Snowden revelations and explored the digital age and surveillance state, while The Vote was set in a polling station in the final 90 minutes of a general election. The Vote was screened live on television during the actual final minutes of the 2015 general election, making it the firstplay broadcast during the exact time it was set.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Graham said he wanted to tackle the divisive mood and political anger generated by the referendum. Photograph: David M. Benett/Dave Benett/Getty ImagesIn March last year he also wrote the political TV drama Coalition, which charted the frenzied days that led to Nick Clegg’s rise to power in 2010. As part of his research Graham interviewed many politicians, including George Osborne and Peter Mandelson.Brexit will also be the subject of a new work at the National Theatre next year. My Country: A Work in Progress will be compiled from verbatim interviews conducted across the country about the referendum and woven together by the poet laureate, Carol Ann Duffy. 