David and Victoria Beckham were guests of honour when actor Eva Longoria tied the knot with TV executive Jose Antonio Baston. Victoria designed the bride’s dress for the wedding near Mexico City, while former England player David got into the spirit at the reception by doing a singalong with American X Factor host and actor Mario Lopez. One wonders what another guest, Ricky Martin, thought of the singing?Adele put her singing on hold for a few minutes at a recent concert to berate a member of the audience who was filming the show using a tripod. “Enjoy it in real life”, she called out to the fan recording the concert. Meanwhile, shoppers at Bristol’s Cabot Circus thought they were listening to quite a good Gary Barlow impersonator until the mask was taken off to reveal the man himself.Viral video: Star Trek Beyond and Game of Thrones meets Family Guy There’s quite an animal theme to this week’s list, starting with a bear called Stepan who lives with Svetlana and Yuriy Panteleenko in Russia. The seven-foot bruin has been known to sit down in the evenings to watch the television with the couple. And if that isn’t scary enough, take a look at the giant alligator who decided to stroll across the third hole at Buffalo Creek Golf Club, Florida. It could be a scene from Jurassic Park. We’ve also got a very handsome horse called Frederik and a couple of French bulldogs who go crazy at the words “dog park”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Family who live with bear1) David Beckham and Mario Lopez sing at Eva Longoria’s weddingPitch problems2) Incredible Family That Lives With A BearTeddy bear’s picnic3) Adele Asks Fan to Stop Recording Her During Live Show Hello – can you stop?4) Giant Gator Walks Across Florida Golf CourseSnappy player5) Giant Alligator in Jurassic ParkPutt out of context6) Masked Gary Barlow surprises shoppersCould it be magic?7) Most handsome horse, FrederikMane chance8) French Bulldogs excited about the dog park!Lead-ing words9) Visit Australia! (Honest Government Advert)Tongue-in-cheek tourism 10) Bread - series 01 episode 01Farewell Carla Lane