Look through the camera’s viewfinder when you’re next preparing to take a photograph and ask yourself: what can I see? Then ask: what can’t I see? The difference might be telling.Photography’s singular perspective has always been its virtue and its Achilles heel. With the exception of stereo and panoptic formats, ordinary cameras cannot begin to replicate the broad, binocular nature of human vision. What lies beyond – or even behind – the camera’s field of view remains a mystery to all but those who were there.As such, the act of making photographs is essentially a matter of selection and composition, a game of inclusion and exclusion. But as a playful series from Slovakian photographers Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik illustrates, the game can be turned on its head.Created over the past three years while Galova and Sedlacik have been travelling the world together, the images in Lens Between Us – the majority of which were shot in Australia – cannily exploit photography’s supposed limitations.For every shot taken of Galova by Sedlacik there is a reciprocal shot taken of Sedlacik by Galova, captured simultaneously. The resulting images are presented side-by-side, giving us two glimpses of every scene, each acting as a metaphorical mirror to the other.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sabeto hot springs, Fiji (10 September 2014). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bondi Icebergs, NSW, Australia (22 August 2015). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Indonesia, Bali, (16 March 2015). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ellis Beach, Queensland, Australia (3 April 2015). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik“The idea came when we went on our first holiday together to Portugal,” Galova explains. “We both had cameras and we ended up facing each other with them. At first we were just playing around but soon we found we had a few photos, and we started putting it together.” Sedlacik adds: “It’s always organic. We are not preparing [in advance] for the shoot, we’re always just doing it as we go. When I’m trying to match the photos together sometimes it doesn’t work – the colour, the tone, the composition and how smooth they are through the white line. But when we take the photos we don’t spend too long at the spot, we just say: ‘Did you have good focus? Did you take my photo? OK, let’s continue’.”Part travelogue, part portraiture, part documentary – or “a big mash-up” of their creative backgrounds, as Sedlacik suggests; whatever terminology we use to describe the concept, its unorthodox nature has proved liberating. The pair have so far made more than 150 diptychs and have amassed 50,000 followers across Instagram and Tumblr, where they regularly post their images. Last week a small selection of their work was shown in a shipping container at Sydney’s Bondi beach.“When we both took photos [independently] we ended up with similar photos,” Galdova says. “I’m not saying it’s boring to have only one [perspective], but ... using diptychs gives us more options and more creativity. “For example, we went to Uluru just before sunrise and you’ve got this beautiful view in front of you, but what people don’t see is that you’re squeezed in between all of the tourists ... So that diptych is showing the beauty but also the reality around us.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Uluru, Northern Territory, Australia (14 January 2015). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fraser Island, Queensland, Australia (28 March 2015). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coogee, NSW, Australia (19 April 2014). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bondi Beach, NSW, Australia (14 January 2015). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter SedlacikThere are subtle stylistic differences between their images – Sedlacik characteristically prefers a slightly shallower depth of field using his Canon camera, and Galova sometimes opts for analogue over her Nikon kit to capture a more “poetic” feel. And while many of the early images in the series were shot with the pair standing metres apart, directly facing one another, they now increasingly feature a change of scale or vantage point, something which opens up the space around them and playfully nudges the axis of our attention. In that sense, their images recall the staged creations of Barbara Probst.Probst’s work is manifestly more cunning and often features degrees of duplicity (what appears to be an alpine location in one frame, for example, is only revealed to be a cloth backdrop when seen in another frame from above). By contrast, it is clear that Galova and Sedlacik are merely revelling in the aesthetic possibilities – and the memories – their travels produce. Theirs is a simpler and more relatable purpose. “For us it’s always a diary, it’s what we feel as we go,” Galova says. “Behind every single photo there is a story. “Some of our friends say [they feel like] they are travelling with us. We made a group on Facebook, then we put it on Tumblr and Instagram and it started to grow and people started to write to us. We really didn’t expect it. Then we found other couples have started to use the format and the hashtag #lensbetweenus [for their own photos].”As much as anything, these photographs examine the romantic relationship between Galova and Sedlacik, and their popularity on social media is perhaps born of the fact they seem to speak to something universal. Indeed, once you strip away the context and the intent, the attraction between between Galova and Sedlacik is compelling. They may be hidden behind cameras and divided at all times by a white rule, but there is a palpable bond. And, as they point out, they remain the object of one another’s gaze wherever in the world they may be.“With diptychs, we can be together even we are not standing next to each other.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Colour Run, Sydney, NSW, Australia (24 August 2014). Photograph: Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik