To be nominated for an Oscar this year is to have your privilege checked. And, accordingly, some have found fault with The Martian. It curbs diversity, they say. But their beef with the Matt Damon-stuck-on-Mars movie is not its lack of roles for people of colour or women. In fact, this is a cheerfully colour-blind film, in which those who happen to be black or female discuss quantum physics without reference to race or gender.No. Their issue with The Martian is its quota of LOLs. Is it funny enough to be called a comedy?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest For that’s the prize it took at the Golden Globes earlier this month - to some surprise, even from its director, Ridley Scott. A week after the win, Judd Apatow (whose Trainwreck had lost) made a speech in which he told drama, as a genre, to “go fuck yourself”. “We only have one award, Matt,” he said, addressing Damon. “That’s all we get. I’m like a nerd on the schoolyard and you stole my drink money.”Scott, it has to be said, does not sound fussed. “We didn’t choose that category,” he says, accent languid transatlantic, with top-notes of geordie. “The Globes chose it because they thought it was amusing enough.” As for the backlash? “I must say I was surprised. It’s a movie! It’s not the cure for cancer, Judd. Don’t take yourself too seriously, Judd.”He chuckles. Fourteen months ago, Scott wasn’t so sunny. The race row over his Moses movie, Exodus: Gods and Men (Joel Edgerton is Rameses), damaged the film’s reception and dented its director’s image. Now – in a happy narrative arc – he’s rightly hailed a hero, the 78-year-old survivor who made the classiest crowdpleaser of last year, and has two shots at doing so in 2017, with sequels to Prometheus and Blade Runner.“You never release a film until you’re certain you’ve done the best you can,” he says of The Martian. “The rest is in the hands of, not the gods, but the audience. And in this instance, we did very, very, very well. We went through the roof. That didn’t surprise me, because it’s a pretty good film.”Down the line from Sydney – “It’s teatime! Raining cats and dogs!” – Scott is kind, patient (there’s crackle and a delay) and responsive. His preference for plain-speak over false modesty is born of 20 years in advertising, then 40 in Hollywood, where Alien, Blade Runner, Thelma & Louise, Gladiator, Hannibal, American Gangster and more made him one of the few men who can still persuade a studio to bankroll something big-budget that’s not a sequel or a superhero movie.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sigourney Weaver in Scott’s 1979 film Alien. Photograph: Allstar/20th Century FoxRather, it’s Scott himself who is the brand. “You prove how reliable you are. Which I am, I always have been – it’s part of my thing.” He is not a slave to receipts, he clarifies; he makes movies “to satisfy my creative needs”. It just so happens his taste overlaps with that of many others.When I ask why the top Oscar contenders – The Revenant (12 nominations), Mad Max: Fury Road (10) and The Martian (seven) - are all tales of men struggling solo in the wilderness, he correctly brings it straight back to cash. The Martian, he says, was “way cheaper than those two – way, way”. Better performing, too – it’s taken more than both those combined (he doesn’t point this out). “So we did awfully well. That’s being competitive for a minute.” You can hear the grin.The epic scale that superficially unites the films, then, is a product of the need to put bums on seats. “You want big films and stories to keep people going to the cinema. It’s up to us to keep the bar raised. That’s the trick. I’ve always done that.”And such a trick should not be underestimated. “It is brain surgery! It is bloody brain surgery! You’re putting together a whole group of people, you’re trying to budget as accurately as you can and, at the end of it, you’ve got to sell a lot of tickets. That’s more complex than banking – but a few of us manage to pull it off.” A pause: pride can sound like ego. “I’m not kidding myself: I love the challenge. If you don’t, don’t do the job.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Harrison Ford in Blade Runner. Photograph: Channel 5Scott may be approaching 80, but this is not a man eager for his slippers. He wakes at 5:30am each day, wherever he is in the world. Yes, he tinkers in his vineyard, but he sells the produce, too. He is linked to no fewer than 60 forthcoming film and TV projects. Like his late brother Tony, he is a man of no small decisiveness. “I love the way advertising managers do it: stop studying your navel and just get on with it.”The Martian is his closest self-portrait yet. It’s a story of cracking on and making do. Using anything handy – duct tape figures large – to haul yourself out of trouble. Damon’s character must “science the shit out of this” to sustain himself; Scott could teach him the ropes. “You need your house painted, I can do it,” he told a reporter at its Toronto premiere last autumn. “I’ll do it better than most builders.”The Martian review – Matt Damon thanks his lucky stars in sci-fi test of survival “You may have all the hi-tech things in the world but need a pencil. When all the lights go off you ask: have you got a candle? It constantly reminds me just how vulnerable we are.” The digital revolution has helped Scott’s SFX; it troubles him, too. “I’m from the generation that climbed trees, fell out of trees, broke my arm, my foot, my fingers, fell in the sea, nearly drowned. To design a catapult was hi-tech. Today, kids don’t do that. They probably play soccer but for the most part they’re button-pushing. I just hope they have as much fun as I did.”And therein lies the reason The Martian chimed with so many, he thinks. Self-sufficiency is deeply appealing. “Buried in the film is a life lesson: God helps those who help themselves. It’s a tremendous example of effort and ingenuity and courage in the face of imminent death. It’s as tough as climbing Mount Everest, really. In a slip you can die.”How scientifically accurate is The Martian? Born in South Shields just before the second world war, Scott is a self-made man and non-believer, who progressed from grammar school to art college and so to Soho. Yet for someone who calls himself a “logical agnostic”, he invokes the Almighty a lot. Religious questioning – the through-line in all his movies – seems to be growing more intense as he gets older. The Martian, in which Damon whittles a crucifix for kindling, is a testament to human ingenuity in a godless universe, but it is not propaganda. With Alien: Covenant – which is what he’s shooting in Sydney – he is, he says, “diddling around” with ideas such as: “Is it Godly or technical? Are we biological or are we created? If created, who created us?”So how would the discovery of life on other planets affect religious belief back on Earth? Scott ducks, and focuses on it being a “when” not an “if”. Mars is as accessible now as the moon seemed 50 years ago. “Once you’re past Mars, the nearest planet is lightspeed away. So you’re talking about people willing to go into space knowing they will never return. So you’re really inventing a lifestyle onboard a craft.“But they know for sure, out there in our reachable galaxy, there may be millions of planets that have the same access to the atmosphere and heat we do. How logical is it there will be living organisms out there? Most certainly. Will they look like us? Very much doubt it.”Scott famously knew about the discovery of water on Mars months before Nasa told the rest of us. “Could you drink it?” he asked them. “Almost certainly. Anything in it? Microbes. Oh, aliens are possible! So is Mars us, a billion and half years ago? Or closer? Did we burn up our own atmosphere?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matt Damon in The Martian: ‘A tremendous example of effort and ingenuity and courage in the face of imminent death.’ Photograph: Allstar/20th Century FoxTo be fair to Scott, he is not just a religious enquirer. Rather, he is omnivorously interested. He endlessly bats arguments between sides of his brain, like a boy playing ping-pong with one side of the table up. It is not just work that keeps him chugging. It is curiosity, too. Witness how he yaks with himself about whether or not quitting this planet will become a necessity.“We’re hoping to cut emissions by 30% by 2030. I say: are you kidding? You’ve got to be doing it much faster. If you don’t, we definitely will lose the battle. Have we damaged ourselves? Course we have. Can we do anything about it? I just hope to God we’re acting in an organised and swift fashion but I got a funny feeling it’s not quick enough. Will it be doomsday? I don’t think so. Maybe you’ve got to start looking at a house in Scotland.”He laughs. So can art help change things? Is that why he does it? Oh no, he says. He invokes again his advice to Apatow: remember, it’s only a movie.But then he checks himself. One or two films, he thinks, have had an impact on him. The long-suppressed Peter Watkin drama The War Game (1965), about London being nuclear-bombed. “I thought about it for a week after seeing it.” And The Road, the 2009 version of Cormac McCarthy’s post-apocalyptic horror. “That’s really scary. I think there’s a degree of uneasy accuracy.” A pause. “We don’t want to even consider that.” And, for once, he doesn’t answer himself back.• The Martian is available on Digital HD now and on DVD and Blu-ray & DVD on 8 February• This article was amended on 29 January 2016 to remove details about Tony Scott’s death that were inconsistent with Guardian editorial guidelines.