The stories of a young Germaine Greer, the Melbourne Cup winner Michelle Payne and the suffragette Vida Goldstein will be brought to the screen by female producers, directors and writers after a record $3m grant from government funding body Screen Australia. The Brilliant Stories program awarded 45 women-led story ideas for film, TV and online as well as 13 industry projects as part of sweeping reform to ensure at least half of Screen Australia’s funding goes to women by the end of 2018.Only 29% of the people working in Australian film production are women, with just 32% of women working as producers, 23% as writers and 16% as directors.Gender matters in Australian film and equality can't come soon enough | Stephanie Van Schilt  The wider $5m Gender Matters program announced by Screen Australia in 2015 includes the promotion of gender and cultural diversity across all funding guidelines. Tuesday’s announcement marks the biggest cash injection for the screen industry in a single day in the agency’s history.The Gender Matters taskforce chair, Deanne Weir, said she sees a future in which stories about women, told by women, are of equal interest to all audiences, leading to more diversity and richness on Australian screens. “I absolutely believe that the opportunities being created today will have a resounding effect on our screen industry for many years to come,” Weir said. The women whose projects were successful are a mix of high-profile, established and emerging creatives, including the actor and producer Claudia Karvan (The Secret Life of Us), the actor and writer Kat Stewart (Underbelly) and the Offspring producer Imogen Banks.Germaine Greer’s life before she wrote her groundbreaking book The Female Eunuch will be made into a two-part TV series, I Am Woman, directed by Daina Reid and written by Alicia Gwinner. The actor and director Rachel Griffiths will make her feature film directing debut in Ride Like A Girl, about jockey Payne who went on to become the first woman to win the Melbourne Cup.The ABC journalist Sarah Macdonald’s book about her life in India when her husband was a foreign correspondent, Holy Cow, will be brought to the TV screen by producers Ester Harding, Radha Mitchell and Chloe Rickard. The producer Jo Porter will work with the director Rachel Ward on a period drama about the 19th century women’s suffrage activist Goldstein.Being Mia Freedman: 'The idea you’re doing feminism wrong I find laughable' The award-winning playwright and actor Nakkiah Lui will be adapting her 2015 Belvoir production Kill the Messenger for the screen, for a feature directed by Samantha Lang. The veteran producers Jane Campion and Jan Chapman will executive produce feature film Runaway about a young woman who enters into a dangerous world of sexual fantasy. Thirteen projects which aim to create business and industry infrastructure around women were also awarded funding, including The Athena Project, which will provide writers and directors from regional areas with industry forums; and Bunya Engendered, which pairs women of diverse backgrounds with mentors to support their writing. Mia Freedman’s media empire was one of these thirteen, receiving support for a web series on Mamamia.com.au called Mamamia: Love | Laugh | Learn, from director Julie Kalceff and story producer Rosie Lourde. Freedman is named as the creative director on the project. For the full list of Gender Matters funding recipients, visit Screen Australia’s website.