A “sensitive” staging of William Shakespeare’s Richard III has been promised for a production at Leicester Cathedral, home to the medieval monarch’s remains, which were found under a council car park.The cathedral will be the setting in July for a play that portrays Richard as disfigured and a vicious, lying sadist.Organisers of the production know the location may raise eyebrows, but they hope it will contribute to the wider debate about a king who continues to fascinate.“We will need to be sensitive, but I think it is a good opportunity to open up a discussion,” said Ben Horslen of theatre company Antic Disposition. “We do need to be careful. It is possible there are people who are not going to like it, there are people who don’t always like anything done in cathedrals other than worshipping.“I think it is interesting to use these spaces in different ways and to encourage people to engage with different kinds of art in them.”Richard III, the last Plantagenet king, killed at the Battle of Bosworth in 1485, was named the most fascinating historical figure in a poll last year of British historians and the public.It was a vote undoubtedly influenced by the discovery of his remains in 2012 under a Leicester city council car park. Three years later, he was reburied at Leicester Cathedral in a ceremony broadcast live on TV and presided over by the archbishop of Canterbury.But Richard has always been at the centre of public attention, partly because of Shakespeare’s play, which is all the more reason to perform it in the cathedral now he is there, said Horslen. “We now have an interesting chance to look at the historical Richard alongside the theatrical one,” he said.“The best way to be sensitive about it is to be very clear that this is Shakespeare’s version. It is a theatrical rendition of a character, not a historical one.”Richard van Allen, a spokesman for the Richard III Society, said he was “rather surprised that they would do it, but still ... it sounds interesting”.It all depends how sensitive the production is, said van Allen, recalling with distaste Kevin Spacey’s version when he was the artistic director at the Old Vic theatre in London. “There he was on stage with a huge hunchback, withered arm and a big metal brace on his leg he dragged round, which was not what Richard was about. He spent all his life fighting, he was really a soldier, he wasn’t this monster.“If is it is done sensitively in the cathedral and is a good version, I’m sure we would be happy with it.”Horslen said the portrayal had to get the balance right. “You can be too revisionist with the play. The play is the play and there is no doubt in it that he is the villain.“Equally, you don’t want to be adding too much unnecessary baggage, particularly as we now know more about the historical Richard. There has got to be a certain sympathy to that ... We don’t want to be disrespectful.”The July tour of Richard III will visit cathedrals in Ely, Peterborough, Gloucester, Bristol and Salisbury. In late August, it will be staged at Temple Church in London.Horslen said the decision to stage the play had been influenced by contemporary events. “It is about a man who lies and deflects and deceives his way into a position of massive power. We don’t have to look too far to see what is going on with that,” he said.