 Tewkesbury in Gloucestershire, famous for its abbey, the Wars of the Roses battle in 1471 and the floods that ravaged the town in 2007, might seem an unlikely place to look for evidence of impending drought. But stroll along the riverbank at Abbey Mill Gate and the signs are there: the mud is cracked and dry, the reeds brown and withering, and the water is starting to form pools.“The water levels are low. I notice it when I put my bucket in the water,” says Christine Greenwood, who has spent the past year living on a barge at Abbey Mill, where a spur of the Avon meets a tributary of the Severn. “It affects us because we can’t turn the boat.” In the last week Abbey Mill Gate has featured consistently near the top of the list of rivers in the county with levels well below their normal minimum. Although rain is expected to give Tewkesbury’s rivers a little relief this weekend, it Tewkesbury is one of many places that could be hit by an expected summer drought following one of the driest winters in more than 20 years.Greenwood points to a small wooden jetty on the far side of the river. “The water would normally be up to the edge,” she says. “Now the water laps almost a metre below at the poles supporting the jetty.”Such small signs of change are familiar to environmentalists and scientists: they suggest that the river system is suffering the effects of a concerted period of low rainfall, an event whose most likely outcome is drought. And while falling levels can be inconvenient for the people living on the rivers, they can be catastrophic for the wildlife that is a crucial part of the river ecosystem.“At the moment, river flows are low and affecting migratory fish – salmon, sea trout, eels, shad, lamprey,” says Arlin Ricard, chief executive of the Rivers Trust. “All of these species’ migration upstream will be affected by low flow. It’s already having an effect. Salmon will be the first casualty, then trout, then coarse fish. Those migrating are struggling most because they need a good flow of highly oxygenated cold water to move upstream. Then you will start to see algal blooms caused by warm, nutrient-rich water. They will smother or kill off fish and invertebrates and deplete oxygen from water. During previous droughts, we’ve seen blue-green algal blooms on reservoirs, which can render water unfit for consumption.”Kathy Hughes, a freshwater specialist at the WWF, says other river species could be threatened by drought. “The situation is challenging because wildlife is in a slow, steady decline. Thousands of fish die every year because of a lack of water in the rivers. Kingfishers need healthy amounts of water, water voles are on a knife-edge. When there is no water, they have no refuge to hide from predators and during drought their population can be wiped out.”The early signs of drought are following a pattern familiar from 2012: a reasonably dry summer last year, a dry winter and a couple of dry months in the spring. April saw just 41% of average rainfall nationally; the six months from October were the driest since 1995-96. The Environment Agency said that, while some rivers, reservoirs and groundwater sources were lower than normal, there were currently no water supply issues as a result of the dry weather. However on Friday Affinity Water, which supplies 3.6 million customers in the south-east, urged people to save water because of a lack of rainfall. The company said that the region had received just over half its average rainfall since July resulting in low river levels.For Hughes, the impact of drought on the life of the river is critical because of the water abstraction regime, where water is taken from a ground source for irrigation or is treated for consumption. “In a normal, healthy environment wildlife can cope with drought and floods,” she says. “In 2015, 3,000 fish were killed due to over-abstraction. Of all the abstraction licences, only about 25% allow for an environmental flow. All the others are historical. There’s a huge legacy of over-abstraction, so in times of drought the abstraction is going to continue until there’s nothing left for the rivers. We’re advocating for a sustainable abstraction regime. It’s more of a policing issue: there must be a sufficient level of water in the river for the environment that is safeguarded.”Environmentalists had hoped that a new water bill would include a reform of the abstraction licences, but the bill has been postponed due to Brexit.Water companies losing vast amounts through leakage, as drought fears rise For Ricard, population density and climate change have exacerbated the effect of low rainfall. “We’re a really drought-prone country, that’s why we struggle. Because of our population density – in the south and east it’s 1,000 people per square mile – we have less rainfall per head than anywhere in Europe, apart from Cyprus and, bizarrely, Belgium. Most scientists and environmentalists would see what is happening now as symptomatic of climate change or a period of change. As environmentalists, we are always saying that we’re seeing these consistent problems of climate change manifest themselves as drought or flood. All those formulas of a once in a 100-year event don’t work any more.”He says that while water companies have learned from previous droughts – by increasing the ability to transfer water by pipe between areas – other measures, such as improving soil quality and an expanded system of farm reservoirs, can offer a longer-term solution.“Paradoxically, to protect yourself from drought takes very similar measures as it does to protect yourself from flood,” he says. “You need to look to the uplands and wetlands and retain as much water as possible. What’s the one thing we can do? Improve soils and increase the potential of soil to retain and receive water and let it flow through to the aquifers. We’re not doing it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kingfishers need lots of water to survive.