Gillian Avery, who has died aged 89, was an award-winning children’s author and a historian of children’s literature. Over two decades, she wrote children’s books set almost exclusively in late-19th-century England, humorously creating an atmosphere that was accurately enough underpinned to feel convincing, without ever feeling over-researched or teacherly.Against that background, her characters were sufficiently Victorian to fit in, but also modern enough to appeal to contemporary readers. Of the two dozen books she either wrote or edited for children, she was best known for The Warden’s Niece (1957) and A Likely Lad (1971). The latter won the 1972 Guardian children’s fiction prize. Her work as a scholar of children’s literature included Nineteenth Century Children: Heroes and Heroines in English Children’s Stories 1780-1900 (1965), which she wrote with Angela Bull; and Behold the Child: American Children and their Books, 1621-1922 (1994), a detailed study of children’s literature in the US.Born in Reigate, Surrey, Gillian was the oldest child and only daughter of Norman and Grace Avery. Her father was an estate agent in Reigate. She went to Dunottar school in the town, where “we merely learned to write neatly and to learn by heart”, she claimed. After secretarial training, Avery spent three years as a junior reporter on the Surrey Mirror in Redhill, where she informally filled in some of the gaps in her education but recognised that she was “too slow and too inaccurate” to be a journalist.She then worked on reference books, first Chambers Encyclopaedia and then the Oxford Children’s Encyclopaedia for Oxford University Press. In 1952, while working in Oxford, she met and married Tony Cockshut, a scholar of Victorian literature. Two years later he took up a post teaching at Manchester grammar school. Avery had always wanted to be a writer but, she said, “I got caught up in various jobs and had to content myself that one day it would come.” Moving to Manchester was that moment. She had no work and started to write as “an escape from the weeping … skies and raw fogs”.Missing Oxford, both its architecture and its academic atmosphere, she lovingly re-created it in 1875 as the setting for her first novel, The Warden’s Niece. Her title character, Maria, miserable at her unimaginative boarding school, where she is constantly humiliated, runs away to her great-uncle, the warden of an Oxford college. Maria is quietly ambitious to become an academic and her uncle arranges for her to be taught with the Smith boys who live next door. Under their eccentric tutor the Rev Francis Copplestone, the children have a considerable amount of freedom. While exploring the Oxfordshire countryside, they discover a mystery about a boy who went missing a couple of centuries earlier.Avery gives the period flavour of this engaging adventure easily through her descriptions of inconvenient clothes, poor food and petty restrictions – as well as some admirably Victorian cycling. Her observations of family life – how Maria is treated in the warden’s lodgings and how the childhood of the Smith boys is shaped – are conveyed with an enjoyable lightness that verges on the satirical, while also highlighting the obvious truth that the children are entirely subject to the authority of the adults. How the children circumvent that authority in a creative way, individually and collectively, is as much part of the story as the solving of a mystery adventure. Maria is strong-minded; she is determined to finish her research so that she can prove to her uncle that she really is a serious scholar, even though it requires effecting an entrance to the Bodleian Library to do so.A runner-up for the Carnegie medal for the best children’s book of the year, The Warden’s Niece was an assured first novel and Avery never strayed far from the subject matter, the style or the quality of it in her subsequent novels. Oxford was once more the setting of her fourth title, The Elephant War (1960), in which Maria and the Smith brothers appeared again, as they did in The Italian Spring (1964). In these, and in other titles, including The Greatest Gresham (1962), there are other children who, like Maria, want to prove that they can overcome their apparent weaknesses and are willing to flout convention even if it puts them in awkward situations.Avery’s anti-authoritarian characters were deliberately created as an antidote to her own prewar upbringing, in which she described children as adopting a “meek acceptance of the power of the adult world”. As she saw it, Victorian children had, like her, been brought up at a time when they were “up against the baffling adult world”; for this reason she felt she had a far greater understanding of them than of the children growing up in the 1950s at a time when adults both paid them more attention and gave greater consideration to their views.Avery returned to Oxford in the mid-60s when her husband took up a teaching post there. She felt nostalgic for Manchester and the Lancashire society in which the thing that mattered above all was to be “respectable”. Drawing on her own experience and the stories of her father-in-law, who had been a doctor in Lancashire, she wrote A Likely Lad, the story of bookish Willy Overs persuading his father to allow him to continue his education rather than work in the insurance business. As well as winning the Guardian prize, it was a runner-up for the Carnegie medal. It was made into a TV miniseries in 1990.Avery continued to write children’s books until 1979 and then wrote two adult novels, The Lost Railway (1980) and Onlookers (1983). In addition to her histories of children’s books, she wrote Mrs Ewing (1961), about the children’s writer Juliana Horatia Ewing, and two books about girls’ education: The Best Type of Girl: A History of Girls’ Independent Schools (1991) and Cheltenham Ladies: A History of the Cheltenham Ladies’ College (2003). She was an active member of the Children’s Books History Society and served as its chair from 1987 until 1989.Her husband and their daughter, Ursula (known as Shenka), survive her.• Gillian Elise Avery, children’s writer, born 30 September 1926; died 31 January 2016