Best of Red Bull Soapbox Race6pm, DaveA collection of highlights from a spectacle that – like those Birdman contests where people leap off piers wearing homemade wings – combines eccentric invention with the real possibility of severe injury. Competitors in engine-less, elaborately decorated go-karts of their own design hurtle down a track seemingly intended to send them into waiting straw bales. This clipfest rounds up the best bits from races around the world. Jack SealeRevolting Rhymes 6.30pm, BBC1Here’s a treat. Over two evenings, Roald Dahl’s subversive reworkings of classic fairytales are brought to life in animations based on Quentin Blake’s illustrations. First up, the stories of a pistol-packing Red Riding Hood and her best friend – the admirably self-sufficient Snow White – are interweaved with a cautionary tale of finance and property-developing pigs. Among a starry voice cast, Dominic West plays a big, bad and laconic Wolf. Concludes tomorrow. Jonathan WrightThe Witness for the Prosecution9pm, BBC1Toby Jones and Kim Cattrall star in this adaptation of the classic Agatha Christie short story. Set in 1920s London, it concerns the murder of glamorous heiress Emily French. The finger of suspicion is pointed at the young lover to whom she left her fortune. Lawyer John Mayhew, however, discovers that there’s more to the case than meets the eye. Fruity melodrama, as comforting as a nice, reheated slice of Christmas pud. David StubbsThe Big Fat Quiz of the Year 20169pm, Channel 4With a flittering light finally in sight at the end of the slime-slathered tunnel that was 2016, Jimmy Carr returns to help roast a year that left us all feeling burned. Richard Ayoade, Rob Delaney, Mel Giedroyc, Sarah Millican, David Mitchell and Romesh Ranganathan make up this year’s teams, with Jon Snow, Charles Dance and a roster of celebrity inquisitors on hand to posit questions on everything from Boaty McBoatface to Brexit. Mark Gibbings-JonesMade in Chelsea Christmas Party9pm, E4Joy and harmony abound as the Made In Chelsea cast get together for an end-of-season party, featuring a grilling from Rick Edwards and a look at their highlights from the latest series. Not really: with this perfectly groomed yet vicious pack, things are likely to turn ugly. Then at 10pm it’s over to Jamie Laing, a man so posh he should come with subtitles, who’s grilling guests including Pamela Anderson in his spinoff chatshow. Hannah VerdierThe Entire Universe9.30pm, BBC2This is, approximately, Monty Python’s Galaxy Song extrapolated into an hour-long special. It’s a collaboration between Eric Idle and Brian Cox, hung on the somewhat laboured conceit that Cox thinks he is presenting an academic lecture but has, in fact, been roped into a glitzy musical. It has its moments and, naturally, there’s a “hilarious” Uranus pun. Robin Ince, Warwick Davis and Noel Fielding also star. Andrew Mueller      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Change is in the air … Outnumbered. Photograph: Colin Hutton/BBC/Hat TrickOutnumbered 10pm, BBC1As accomplished as leads Claire Skinner and Hugh Dennis may be, Outnumbered’s best bits have historically come from the kids, their ad hoc delivery giving freshness to an otherwise standard situation comedy. So how will the show fare now they are a full three years older? Change is in the air all round in this special: the bulk of it takes place outside the house, as the Brockmans hit the road to honour one of recently deceased Grandad’s final wishes. John RobinsonFilm choicesGreat Expectations (David Lean, 1946) 9.50am, More4Lean’s haunting masterpiece remains one of the best big-screen Dickens adaptations. The gothic tone is set in the opening scene – Pip’s graveyard encounter with Magwitch – and seeps through the film to Miss Havisham’s embittered existence. The flawless cast includes John Mills and Valerie Hobson as the grown-up Pip and Estella, plus Martita Hunt, Jean Simmons and Alec Guinness. Paul HowlettThe Adventures Of Tintin: The Secret Of The Unicorn (Steven Spielberg, 2011) 11am, BBC2Hergé’s adventures of Belgium’s cartoon boy-reporter come to near-life in motion-capture animation. Tintin (Jamie Bell), Captain Haddock (James Serkis) and Snowy are on the trail of ancient treasure manuscripts, rushing through Spielbergian scrapes with Daniel Craig’s evil Sakharine from stormy seas to the Sahara, in a spirited adventure. PHThe Jungle Book (Jon Favreau, 2016) 11.45am, 6pm, Sky Cinema PremiereJon “Iron Man” Favreau’s reworking of the Kipling story and Disney’s magical 1967 animated film is a wondrous thing. Neel Sethi is Mowgli, brought up in the Indian jungle by wolves and immersed in a world of beasts so realistically formed by CGI they look as if they’ve stepped straight out of Planet Earth II. They’re voiced by a stellar cast, including Bill Murray as Baloo the bear, Scarlett Johansson as Kaa the snake and Idris Elba as the deadly tiger Shere Khan. Tremendous fun. PHDeadpool (Tim Miller, 2016) 2pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereRyan Reynolds is potty-mouthed antihero Deadpool, rogue X-Man and antidote to Marvel’s army of superpowered do-gooders – his main strength being the ability to swear stunningly. That, and heal any physical injury he suffers – except for his cruelly mutated face – and a capacity for dishing out ultra-violence. His arch-enemy, Ed Skrein’s villainous Ajax, is a little underwhelming, but this is a highly entertaining slant on the whole superhero thing. PHBrave (Mark Andrews, Brenda Chapman, 2012) 2.40pm, BBC1Fiery Princess Merida (Kelly Macdonald) is a female Braveheart in Pixar’s dazzling mock-fairytale. In lush medieval Scotland, Merida is outraged to discover that her parents, King Fergus and Queen Elinor (Billy Connolly, Emma Thompson), want to marry her off. So she stomps off into the woods in search of an alternative to the fairytale ending. PHHarry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban (Alfonso Cuarón, 2004) 4.10pm, ITVCuarón’s dark and chilly third chapter is one of the best of the Potter series. The eerie Dementors loom large, and Hogwarts is infested with menace and teenage dread. Most of the familiar faces are back, but Michael Gambon is a slightly less grandfatherly Dumbledore, while Gary Oldman adds ferocious energy and emotion as the apparently deranged Sirius Black. PHLes Misérables (Tom Hooper, 2012) 8pm, More4Even if you wouldn’t man the barricades in defence of musicals, or the long-running West End show, this is a stirring experience. Early 19th-century Paris is epically recreated, with huge star performances from Hugh Jackman as the reformed convict Valjean and Russell Crowe as Javert, the policeman vindictively pursuing him. Their singing (recorded as they filmed) is unexpectedly moving. PH      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unnervingly intense … Captain Phillips. Photograph: SMPSP/Hopper StoneCaptain Phillips (Paul Greengrass, 2013) 9pm, ITVPaul Greengrass’s account of a real-life Somali pirate hijacking is an unnervingly intense action movie, underpinned by a powerful sense of the global economic forces that separate the haves and have-nots. Ultimately it focuses on the riveting confrontation between Tom Hanks, as the eponymous captain, and the electrifying newcomer Barkhad Abdi as the pirates’ leader, both struggling for control of the giant cargo ship Maersk Alabama. PHPride (Matthew Warchus, 2014) 10.30pm, BBC2There are shades of Made In Dagenham in this feelgood tale of inspirational industrial action. It’s set during the 1984 miners’ strike and recounts the birth of the Lesbians and Gays Support the Miners movement, bringing macho miners and metrosexuals together in funny, rousing, sexy union. A triumphant cast includes Bill Nighy’s old-school activist, Paddy Considine’s striker Dai and Imelda Staunton’s indomitable Hefina. How did the miners ever lose? PHPitch Perfect (Jason Moore, 2012) 11.10pm, Channel 4Broadway director Jason Moore takes to the big screen with this chirpy, rude and funny musical comedy about a girls’ group versus a boys’ group at the collegiate a cappella championships. Anna Kendrick is Beca, the fresher who joins up with a crew including Bridesmaids’ Rebel Wilson as the acerbic “Fat Amy”. The music may be a little ancient for some tastes (“There’s nothing from this century,” as Beca puts it), but it’s right on song, and sparked a sequel. PHMuriel’s Wedding (PJ Hogan, 1994) 12.05am, Channel 5Skipping along to Abba songs and sporting a pretty wicked sense of humour, this comes on like another Aussie feelgood comedy, but the laughs are bitter. Muriel (Toni Collette) is unpopular and snubbed by her awful mates, until new chum Rachel Griffiths shows her how to hit back. Underneath the laughter, Muriel’s deadbeat family remain irredeemably awful. PHLive sportTest Cricket: South Africa v Sri Lanka The first Test in the three-match series begins in Port Elizabeth. 7.55am, Sky Sports 2Premiership Rugby Union: Bristol v Worcester Warriors Coverage of the match from the 11th round of fixtures. 2.30pm, BT Sport 2Premier League Football: Hull City v Manchester City Sides from opposite ends of the table meet (kick-off 5.15pm). 5pm, Sky Sports 1