Her real name was Purnakala Gurung and she hailed from the hills of Nepal. My brother and I grew up calling her Dede, which means older sister in my native Assamese. The fact that Dede had been my mother’s nanny and looked about 20 years older than anyone I knew with her wrinkly, chai-coloured forehead and thinning grey bun that she secretly dyed black, made Dede more of a grandmother to me than a “sister”.Dede’s origins and the explanation of how she came to be with us were murky, just like most of the things she shared about herself. But the story as I knew it was that she’d taken care of my mother until she went to boarding school. Then, years later, my mother travelled to Nepal to find Dede to be the nanny for the children she hoped to have one day.Certainly having once been Dede’s charge, my mother knew she was far from a sugary sweet Mary Poppins type. Perhaps she thought Dede’s unique combination of wisdom, no-nonsense attitude and salty humour was just what her children would need. I always wonder what my mother would have thought about the massive impact Dede ended up having on all of our lives. That it would be Dede and not her who would dry my tears, nurture me through sick days and guide me in becoming the woman I am today.Unless my mother had a crystal ball (and in India, that’s not so far-fetched), none of us could have known the way our lives would be forever changed after the fateful day in 1978 when my mother was killed. By that time, my parents had two children – my brother was eight and I was two. They were returning home from their going away party, on the eve of their departure to America, when an articulated lorry struck their car, killing my mother and putting my father in a coma.Upon waking two weeks later, my father decided to carry on with the US plan but now he would bring a nanny. As all of this happened when I was so young, I could hardly comprehend the force of the events happening to me. But I’ve spent much of my life reflecting back on this time and I marvel not only at the audacity of my father but also the equal daring of Dede.My father’s life had just shattered apart yet he wasn’t going to let anything stand in the way of his American dream. Likewise Dede – who had never even been on a plane before and only spoke a few words of English – was ready to fly across the ocean and start a completely new life. They would each claim they made the sacrifice for the sake of my brother and me but I’m not so sure that it was entirely altruistic. Although class and caste systems never really allowed Dede and Dad to have a relationship that transcended employer and employee, they both shared a certain fearless pioneering spirit that still inspires me.Regardless of the courage it took to emigrate, we arrived in America, a mish-mash of broken souls, reeling from my mother’s death. Dad tried to fix us by throwing himself into his work so that he could build us a new life. Dede grabbed my brother and me by her thin arms – one marked with the strange tattoo that I was forbidden to ask about – and held our family together. Her way of doing that was to never let us forget our roots. In our new land of Air Jordans, Barbie dream houses and MTV, that wasn’t easy.Particularly because my father was raising us as “universal citizens”. The definition of universal citizen evolved with time but in general it meant not being Indian or American but embracing all the best aspects of every culture he could expose us to. The practicalities generally meant eating everything including beef, dabbling in lots of religions, speaking English instead of Assamese and travelling the world. Especially in those early days, when I was ever so keen to blend into the small Midwestern towns that my father’s graduate studies took us to, ditching anything that marked me as the “weird Indian kid” was just fine. My nanny, however, wasn’t having it.Dede walked us through our new American lives determined to keep us connected to our Indian heritage every single step of the way. We spoke Assamese with her. However, it was years later on a trip back to India that I humiliatingly realised she had been teaching me a “sailor’s” version of our language, littered in curse words.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mintie Das, aged eight, and Dede. Photograph: Courtesy Mintie DasDede was also adamant about keeping her clothes traditional, holding steadfast to her sari despite my pleas for her to wear pants and skirts like the American women. I would watch her wrap the simple cotton fabric around her slight, petite frame as though each layer provided protection from our foreign ways.What stares Dede would attract with her sari, which was exotic but polarising to the Americans in the 1980s. Dede, for her part, worked it. With her bright almond eyes and taut cheekbones so high that it looked like she was sucking in her breath, Dede resembled the dolls in a souvenir shop. In many ways, people treated Dede like a fragile keepsake. And she knew how to work that too.The beguiling combination of Dede’s sari, lovely smile and broken English (she had learned how to say “I love Amrica” to the delight of the people who met her), probably made her seem like the Indian version of Maria from The Sound of Music. Little did people suspect that underneath that gulab jamunny sweet act was a shrewd, often crude lady boss who was much more like Mr Miyagi meets Jack Sparrow than a singing nun.By the time I was in second grade, Dad had become a professor. We moved to a small university town in Illinois and, unknowingly, had gotten a home right in the middle of fraternity row. Almost every morning, as Dede would walk me to my elementary school, we’d wade through the dire aftermath of the party wasteland covered in things I was too young to know about and Dede was too old to care about.One day, a group of guys started shouting “Ali Baba” at us and laughing. I turned red and begged Dede to cross the street with me. But she refused. Instead, she laughed in her usual loud cackle, yelled “Ali Baba” and waved at them as we walked by. They just watched us in stunned silence and never said anything to us again.Dede set an example for me that day and forever after because she taught me to always be proud of who I was. Dede kept India and my mother alive for us any way she could: Thanksgiving dinner with turkey and aloo baja; Diwali as well as Christmas and stories. Fantastical stories of a world I was so intimately connected to yet would never know if it weren’t for Dede’s tales.Her stories were like a B-movie you snuck into watch with your underage friends. She had lived lifetimes, she was street smart and she could spot a conman a mile away. Her stories were rich and fanciful and she never sugar-coated anything. While Dad preferred the Queen’s English, Dede’s language was guttural but her vocabulary was just as alive. The landscapes she created were so vibrant and filled with a wild cast of characters. All of it underlined with her trademark dark sarcasm.Likewise, while Dad stuck to classical literature, Dede stuck to the “real world”. Albeit, a real word that was ripe with the fantastical, mystical, exceptional India that Dede knew. I would hear anecdotes on everyday witches, tales about men who battled gods and receive practical instructions on how to handle ghosts.My favourite stories were about Mommy. For as vague as Dede was about her own life, she was my mother’s unofficial biographer. Throughout my life, I’ve had well-meaning relatives share their memories of my mother but through their fables and fairytales they unknowingly created a mythical, perfect “angel” that I could never relate to or live up to. Yet the mother in Dede’s stories was good and bad, right and wrong and, best of all, she was real.Almost every day, I would interrupt Dede doing whatever she was busy with and beg her to tell me a story. Despite her protests, which were either not very strong or I just didn’t listen, we would sit down together usually with a cup of chai for her and a Coke for me. I would nestle close, inhaling her smell of fresh coriander mixed with Jovan Musk. She’d silently stare at me through the large glasses that took up half of her face. I’d squirm impatiently but I knew not to rush her. Slowly, she’d crack a smile, exposing the bright white dentures she’d had fitted shortly after our move to the US. Then, she’d start. Whether it was only 10 minutes or several hours, I would barely speak as Dede took me to places I never wanted to come back from.More than the rotis, Diwalis and saris, it was through her stories that Dede, who died three years ago, helped me to connect to what I would eventually understand as my India, but also with the mother who died while I was a child.• Storm Sisters: The Sinking World by Mintie Das is published by Bastei Entertainment, £4.99