Do you remember the first time you danced? What about the last time? And all the dances in between? When the performer Jo Fong auditioned for Richard Gregory, co-director of the Manchester theatre company Quarantine, that’s what he asked her. “It was a getting-to-know-you exercise,” says Fong, “Let’s have your whole history through the art form of dance.” Now, six years later, Fong is part of the cast who have turned that exercise into a full-blown, five-hour epic piece of autobiography called Wallflower.The resulting performance reveals “our physical relationship with history”, says Gregory, or an “encyclopedia of experiences”, as Fong puts it. An experienced dancer who has performed with DV8, Rosas and Rambert, Fong talks about movement as a sense memory. “In the same way that smell is,” she says. “It lives with you.” Just as a fleeting sniff of something familiar can send us spiralling back into the past, so a remembered movement can do the same, whether it’s something mundane or virtuosic.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for WallflowerIn Wallflower, that might be bopping to Top of the Pops with your cousin, a ritual walk with your mum when you were a kid, a dance with your grandma who has Alzheimer’s or, in Fong’s case, performing with choreographer Anne Teresa de Keersmaeker on the Paris Opera stage. “It seems like such a long time ago,” she says, “over 20 years, and I feel very different from that time, but that experience still lives somewhere inside me: the sounds, the quality of attention, the grandeur, the fact that I smashed a couple of 100-year-old mirrors backstage.”All the performers in Wallflower have different backgrounds, which means a wide range of experiences. Alongside Fong there’s Nic Green, an artist who often uses movement in her work, James Monaghan from performance duo Sheep Knuckle and writer Sonia Hughes, who Gregory cajoled on to the stage because he knew, from parties, that she was a great dancer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anne Teresa de Keersmaeker, left, with Samantha van Wissen in Rosas Danst Rosas at Sadler’s Wells, London, in 2009. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianGregory, whose previous shows have featured a dancer performing with his mum (Susan and Darren) and a backstage crew thrust into the spotlight (Entitled), is interested in portraiture: “How we present ourselves and how others see us, as a route to talking about identity and how memory functions.” Some of those memories are spoken, some danced, sometimes both. Certain things are set in place – and there’s a more structured 90-minute version as well as the five-hour show – but otherwise the content is new in every performance. “The game of remembering is actively being played live,” says Gregory. “They’ll be composing and staging the work as they play the game.”That means that at any moment, perhaps sparked by music from the onstage DJ, “layers of memories fall back into your brain,” says Fong. “Which you don’t expect to find yourself revealing.” Such as the memory of Fong’s failed Cats audition many years ago. “I did get a nice letter that said they enjoyed by cat improvisation,” she says. “And then they gave me a number for a singing teacher.”One cast member of Wallflower documents everything that happens, in rehearsal and on stage, to build an archive of dances that now has hundreds of entries and will be exhibited alongside the performance. It’s the unplanned moments that make the performance powerful. “I can’t do a set piece of choreography any more,” says Fong. “I’ve rebelled,” she laughs. “I’m interested in showing people how they are. It’s just more engaging for me.” For audiences too, it seems. “When people see Wallflower they talk about their own dances and memories,” says Gregory. “And they also talk about desperately wanting to get up and dance.”The five-hour show is a real marathon for the four performers, and they’ve only done it once so far. The audience can come and go as they please, but Gregory says there are increasing rewards the longer you watch. “By the last hour, both the performers and the audience were physically and mentally exhausted, but it releases something else, a depth and richness. It goes into another territory that isn’t constrained by the normal rules. I was crying with laughter.”“There’s a real evolving lack of inhibitions,” says Fong. “It’s exhilarating, but it’s an enormous reveal. I felt a kind of exposure I’ve never felt before.” And there’s a pressure for Fong and the rest of the cast to keep up a high level of concentration. “Every day they have a panic that they’re never going to remember another dance,” says Gregory. “But each time we meet, they always do.”Wallflower is at Battersea Arts Centre, London, 20-22 October as part of Dance Umbrella and at Juncture Dance, Leeds, 28-29 October.