Lip balmAll you need: 3 teaspoons beeswax (available online) 5 teaspoons castor oil ½ teaspoon vitamin E oil 1 teaspoon honey 1 little jar to put it inMelt beeswax and castor oil in a double boiler or heatproof bowl in the microwave. Once it’s runny and combined, mix in vitamin E and honey, and pour into your jar – that’s it.Furniture polish  Another use for beeswax. Illustration: Sam BrewsterAll you need:1 part beeswax 1 part turpentine1 part linseed oil 1 glass jar Heat the beeswax in a double boiler until molten, then add warm turpentine and linseed oil. Adjust the quantity of beeswax to increase or decrease the hardness of the wax. Once cool, pour into a glass jar – then polish your furniture.Candles      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Candles are easy to make. Illustration: Sam BrewsterAll you need:Candle wicks  Moulds or containers3lb of wax (makes approx 3 mason jar candles)Select a mould or container for your candle, and suspend the wick a couple of inches higher than your jar using a paper clip and a wooden stirrer placed on top of the container. Ensure you buy wick specially made for beeswax as other types will not burn correctly. Melt wax in a bain-marie. Once it has melted, pour into your mould or jar. To prevent the cooling wax reducing too much, stand jars in a pan filled with boiling water, so they cool slowly. Once cool, trim the wick. And there you have it: a candle made from your beeswax.Everything you need to know about bees60lb: the amount of honey one hive can produce in a good season, but the average is around 25lb. Bees fly about 55,000 miles to make just 1lb of honey.5 miles: how far bees will fly to find food, although the average distance is less than a mile from the hive.20mph: the normal top speed for a worker bee when flying to a food source, and about 12mph when returning laden with nectar, pollen or water.1 sting: a single sting kills the honey bee, as barbs in the lance of the sting cause it to stick to the victim, pulling out the venom sacs and glands of the bee and leaving it to die within minutes.60,000: the approximate number of female worker bees in one colony in the peak of summer.£150: the cost of protective clothing and tools to keep bees; a good secondhand hive with bees is around £60-£80.1/3: the amount by which the British bee population has declined since 2007.75%: the fall in the number of UK bee hives in the past century.27: the number of bee species that used to thrive in the UK, 3 of which are now extinct and many are under threat.Statistics from the British Beekeepers Association bbka.org.uk and Adopt a Hive adoptahive.co.uk