Born in Wisconsin, Heather Graham, 46, studied drama at UCLA. In 1989 she appeared in Gus Van Sant’s film Drugstore Cowboy and earned an Independent Spirit Award nomination for best supporting actress. In 1991, she was cast in Twin Peaks. Her subsequent work includes the 1997 movie Boogie Nights, Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me, two of The Hangover franchise and TV series Californication. Norm Of The North, released on 18 March, is her first animated film; she also appears in Netflix’s Flaked with Will Arnett.What is your earliest memory?When it was very cold, my mother used to dress my sister and me in all these different layers. My mother would say, “Now, before I get you dressed, make sure you don’t have to pee.” And I’d say, “No, no, no.” And, as soon as we were ready, I would say, “I have to pee.”What is your most treasured possession?I love my cellphone.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?There is a part of the ocean where all the garbage is collected; it’s called the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Because of the currents, a lot of the plastic we throw away ends up in this big trash vortex in one part of the ocean. So I would bring back the clean ocean that used to be there.Who would play you in the film of your life?Kate Winslet or Amy Adams or Katharine Hepburn.Which book changed your life?As a kid I read Peter Pan and I really wanted to be him.What do you owe your parents?I am very grateful that they supported me in becoming an actor.What did you want to be when you were growing up?An actress. I used to dress up in my mom’s old clothes and play with these kids from the neighbourhood and make up stories: I would pretend that we were all vampires. I became more shy and awkward when I was nine and my family moved again (my dad was in the FBI). Being in a new place made me feel insecure.What is your guiltiest pleasure?I love sleeping. When I tell people how much I sleep sometimes, they are horrified. I basically sleep between nine and 12 hours a night.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?My best friends. I have known them since I was a teenager and they were just here for my birthday.Which words or phrases do you most overuse?I am a bit of a Valley girl, so I say “you know” and “like” too much.If you could edit your past, what would you change?I spent too many years being hard on myself, like a drill sergeant in my head. I thought that if I was hard on myself, I’d get more results, but I now know that’s not true.Q&A: Richard Wilson – ‘My most embarrassing moment? Turning up to a dinner party three days early’ How do you relax?Once a week I spend a day luxuriating in bed. I like staying in my house, pottering around and maybe cooking or just laying around reading. I love doing yoga and transcendental meditation.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?That by being loving to yourself, you are more kind and loving to others. I always felt, “Oh, you’re supposed to do everything for other people and not worry about yourself”, but it’s important to be kind to yourself, and then you are a more generous person overall.