For years, David Axelrod was deeply suspicious of sampling, but he came to realise his popularity with beatmakers had its advantages. During a rare live performance at the Royal Festival Hall in 2004, the 70-year-old composer observed that he had paid for the night’s 26-piece orchestra with the royalties from Dr Dre’s The Next Episode, which sampled his 1967 track The Edge. “I’m such a hypocrite,” he said. “I hate sampling because it takes jobs away from musicians, but it allows me to have fun. It’s screw-you money.”David Axelrod, composer and producer, dies aged 83 In his prime, Axelrod kept a lot of musicians in work. As a producer and A&R man at Capitol, he crafted lush, dramatic, deeply funky work for soul singer Lou Rawls and jazz saxophonist Cannonball Adderley. His late 60s solo albums were even grander fusions of rock, jazz, funk and orchestral music. Axelrod thought big in every respect. His first two albums, Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience, were homages to William Blake and his third, Earth Rot, was an eco-protest album. Yet the artistic vision of this tough working-class guy from South Central Los Angeles was combined with a professional’s pragmatism. “I hate artists who talk about the muse,” he told Mojo in 2001. “Got a job to do? Do it. Production isn’t an art. Fuck that!”Axelrod’s approach was so uncompromising that the artists he worked with in the late 60s sometimes got short shrift. He effectively hijacked garage-rockers the Electric Prunes, designing audacious arrangements far beyond the band’s abilities and assigning the parts instead to other musicians. When the Electric Prunes were obliged to perform Mass in F Minor, an elaborate psychedelic mass in Latin and Greek, the concert was a catastrophe and the dispirited band soon broke up, too early to enjoy the popularity of Kyrie Eleison in Easy Rider the next year. “We never recovered from being told you are not good enough to play on your own record,” bassist Mark Tulin told Mojo. The follow-up, Release an Oath, featured crack session musicians like bassist Carol Kaye and drummer Earl Palmer but none of the group’s original members. As a classically trained musician, Man From UNCLE actor David McCallum had more say in his four albums with Axelrod, but standout tracks like The Edge were unmistakably the composer’s work.Axelrod struggled in the late 70s and all but disappeared during the 80s. It was sampling that made him both fashionable and solvent again in the 90s, starting with De La Soul and the Beatnuts. Hip-hop producers could find juicy breakbeats anywhere, but Axelrod’s music – richly cinematic and mysteriously evocative – could bring whole new dimensions to a track. Take the pensive piano of The Human Abstract on DJ Shadow’s Midnight in a Perfect World, the orchestral sweep of Holy Thursday on Lil Wayne’s Dr Carter, or the ominous fanfare and pizzicato riff of The Edge on Dr Dre’s The Next Episode. Many of hip-hop’s most curious and discerning producers — DJ Premier, Q-Tip, Diamond D, J Dilla, Madlib — dipped into Axelrod’s 1968-1970 purple patch. Lauryn Hill and Wu-Tang Clan’s Inspectah Deck dug even deeper, dusting off Axelrod’s obscure 1977 jazz fusion album Strange Ladies. The interest remains: younger MCs such as Earl Sweatshirt and Schoolboy Q have recently used his music.Hip-hop’s enthusiasm led to two essential compilations on Stateside, cementing Axelrod’s reputation with a new generation. Mo’ Wax’s James Lavelle went further still. Having discovered Axelrod via DJ Shadow, he tracked him down to ask him to remix UNKLE’s Thom Yorke collaboration Rabbit in Your Headlights and ended up releasing the composer’s 2001 comeback album. Rock musicians have also kept his work alive. In the 60s, his fans included Frank Zappa and George Harrison, who tried to sign him to Apple Records. More recently, Axelrod apostle Richard Ashcroft performed the Electric Prunes’ Holy Are You with his hero at the Royal Festival Hall, while the Manic Street Preachers extrapolated the melody and arrangement of 2013’s Rewind the Film from A Little Girl Lost.Axelrod would still have been a cult hero without sampling, but possibly one confined to fans of jazz and psychedelic rock. Thanks to the process that he initially regarded as harmful to musicians, fragments of his extraordinary compositions are known to millions of Dr Dre and Lil Wayne fans, and one would hope that those tracks bought him a comfortable retirement. “I wasn’t into sampling until I started getting cheques,” he told Mojo. In his case, like so many others, hip-hop takes but it also gives back.