Hometown: Bergen, Norway.The lineup: Haley Shea (vocals), Lasse Lokøy (bass), Halvard Skeie Wiencke (drums), Tor-Arne Vikingstad (guitar).The background: Norwegian punk-pop band Sløtface were until recently known as Slutface. Like Icelandic female hip hop collective Reykjavíkurdætur, who bawled “suck my clit” live on TV and have a song, D.R.U.S.L.A (S.L.U.T) which was written for the SlutWalk movement, they want to reclaim the derogatory term and make “bad” behaviour as acceptable for women as it is for men. They have other plans, among them challenging the way young women – indeed, young people in general - are presented in the media, and making concerts a safe space for females. “We want them to feel comfortable being part of the mosh pit, especially girls in their teens,” says Sløtface frontwoman Haley Shea. “We try and encourage them to stage dive for the first time, because it should be really empowering, and you shouldn’t have to be scared.”If this latter imperative rings any bells, that’s because bands from the early-90s riot grrrl movement had a similar intention re women and gigs. In fact, Sløtface’s original moniker was chosen, says Shea, who was minus one year old when Huggy Bear et al trod the stages, “because we wanted a name that was memorable and provocative, and the more we wrote about feminist issues and were inspired by riot grrrl, the more we thought it fit”. As it turns out, earlier this year they decided to operate as the less confrontational Sløtface, “due to social media censorship”, but that doesn’t mean the male-female outfit have shifted their position on matters political and feminist. “We just feel like there’s a general view that our generation is apathetic and we want to show we’re more active,” Shea says. “We want to give a place for young people to be active and create change. We also want to make music that people want to go and see live, that will unite people around the common interest of making significant changes, especially the way genders are still defined. We don’t like the way you are judged by your gender. We hope the next generation doesn’t feel that way.” Would it have been easier to achieve this as an all-female group? “We just really hope that bands in future don’t have to justify the genders of their members,” she says. “All the men in the band are openly feminist and aren’t afraid to say it.” Could it not be argued that it’s actually the bloke who gets the raw deal in bands with a female out front? “I’m sure you could spin it that way. We just wish people could see us as a group of people, not just three men and a woman. I wish it wasn’t something you had to take a stance on.”Shea and co love Bikini Kill and Kathleen Hanna – “All our information about riot grrrl comes from reading books and watching documentaries, because obviously we weren’t alive at the time” – and punk. “I wouldn’t call myself an expert, but we grew up listening to the Clash and the Ramones.” She laughs. “I discovered them through the music library.” Haley’s mother was a punk, and all of Sløtface’s parents are “super-supportive – they’re like soccer parents, or rather band parents. Before we could drive, they used to drive our drums around everywhere.” Other Sløtface role models include Patti Smith – “We’re inspired by the way she refuses to be anything except what she wants to be” – punk’s DIY ideals, and Jaden Smith’s approach to fashion. But for all the prioritising of polemic, musically they privilege hooks and choruses: think 90s indie-pop with the accent on the anthemic. Their favourite musician in the world is Swedish dance-pop doyenne Robyn, and although what she does is a long way from Sløtface’s exuberant guitar racket, the point is, they want their music to be high in the charts, not underground. “Pop music is something that Scandinavia does really well,” Haley says, with good reason. “People like Susanne Sundfør and Highasakite are all pushing the limits of what can be considered pop music, in a really interesting way.” You’d imagine for a certain demographic this will be nostalgic catnip and great fun live. Permanently perky and delightfully self-aware (“Kill ’em with kindness wins worst lyric of the year,” goes the lyric to Kill ’Em With Kindness), they might be riot grrrl-ish in terms of ideology, but musically their music doesn’t have that cutting edge. In a way, Sløtface are a John Peel band with the potential to become a Scott Mills band. Fast and furious they may be, bearing titles such as Shaved Head and Angst, but these songs have a candy-pop coating. They recently played a show in Los Angeles, as part of their first headline tour of the States, and the screenwriter of the 90s movie Empire Records, the subject of their song of the same name was spied in the crowd, grinning, if not actually moshing, along. They even supported A-Ha, their home country’s biggest musical export, at a massive arena show in Bergen, Norway. “That was very strange but really cool,” Haley recalls. “It was the first time we ever played an arena where it was all seated and everyone was over 50 – quite different to our usual audience.”Alright, no need to rub it in.The buzz: “We have seen the future, and its name is Sløtface” – Gigwise. The truth: The 90s indie-pop revival starts here. Most likely to: Mosh.Least likely to: Wanna die. What to buy: Empire Records is out now on Propellor. File next to: Wannadies, Cardigans, Catatonia, Black Kids. Link: soundcloud.com/slotfaceofficial-1Ones to watch: Aaron Lee Tasjan, Oh Pep!, Tigress, Host, 6Lack. 