There’s always something admirably matter-of-fact about the Screen Actors Guild awards. Without a host and with only a lifetime achievement award to break from the formula, it’s a speedy watch, perfect for those who find the Oscars a grueling marathon of back-slapping and montages.Screen Actors Guild showers nominations on Manchester by the Sea With similar briskness, here’s a look at the will-wins and the should-wins before this Sunday’s ceremony.Female actor in a television movie or limited series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: BBC/FoxIf you’ve read an article that included either of the words television or awards in the past year, you’ll be sick to death of hearing how much voting bodies love The People vs OJ Simpson. If you’ve seen the show, though, you’ll appreciate that such fawning is warranted especially with regards to its actors and after impressing by playing a variety of lurid roles in American Horror Story, Sarah Paulson finally got the chance to shine playing Marcia Clark. She’s likely to win again at the SAGs, despite competition from Kerry Washington and Felicity Huffman, but don’t count out a surprise win for Bryce Dallas Howard who only had an hour to make an episode of Black Mirror utterly unforgettable.Who will win: Sarah PaulsonWho should win: Sarah PaulsonMale actor in a television movie or limited series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: N/A/Fox/BBCA less obvious race here, as unlike Paulson, People vs OJ’s Sterling K Brown actually lost out on a Golden Globe to The Night Manager’s Hugh Laurie. He’s also competing against his co-star Courtney B Vance who is a very likely spoiler. Both would be entirely deserving winners, but it’d be nice to see Riz Ahmed get some recognition for his impressive turn in the HBO mini-series The Night Of. He’s been quietly brilliant in films and shows for years, but with a lead and a devastating character arc to play out, he finally reached his star potential.Who will win: Sterling K BrownWho should win: Riz AhmedFemale actor in a comedy series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Lacey Terrell/HBOIt’s a tough call in this category as nothing feels particularly buzzy or long overdue for attention. Uzo Aduba has won for the last two years and Julia Louis-Dreyfus won the year before that while the inclusion of Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin feels token given their show Grace & Frankie is a rather tired throwback. It’s Ellie Kemper’s second nomination in a row and it would be great to see her win, given that most awards have passed her by for her deceptively smart work in The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt. But the race is likely to be between Aduba and Louis-Dreyfus and after two years of going with Aduba, they’re likely to go for Louis-Dreyfus.Who will win: Julia Louis-DreyfusWho should win: Ellie KemperMale actor in a comedy series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Jennifer Clasen/HandoutA frequent complaint of the decision to split either small or big screen categories into comedy and drama is that many dramatic shows or films with slight comedic elements will switch category to ensure victory. Transparent is undoubtedly a show that benefits from witty writing, but it feels unfair to compare it with other sitcoms up for awards. Still, Jeffrey Tambor remains sensational as Maura and in the fantastic third season, he reached new heights. The SAGs have been keen on his fellow nominee William H Macy’s performance in Shameless in recent years, but this feels like Tambor’s to lose.Who will win: Jeffrey TamborWho should win: Jeffrey TamborEnsemble in a comedy series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Bob D'Amico/ABCThis award has been dominated by another genre-jumping show for the last two years: Orange is the New Black. It could very well make it three years, especially after a particularly strong season, but one feels that change is coming. After Tracee Ellis Ross picked up a best actress Golden Globe for Black-ish and with a season that’s been garnering a lot of attention, it could pull a surprise victory off this weekend. Who will win: Black-ishWho should win: Black-ishFemale actor in a drama series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Alex Bailey/NetflixA rather unusual set of nominees this year given that, bar one, they’re all from freshman shows. There’s a lot of fan love for both Winona Ryder and Millie Bobby Brown in Stranger Things, but the genre might stand in their way of success while Thandie Newton’s impressive turn in Westworld might also suffer for the same reason. Given the more awards-friendly nature, and the fact that Brits tend to do well at awards ceremonies, Claire Foy is a solid pick for her role in The Crown. But after a season that gave her character the chance to dominate and the insanity that’s meant she’s never won a SAG before, it would be great to see Robin Wright win for House of Cards.Who will win: Claire FoyWho should win: Robin WrightMale actor in a drama series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Robert Viglasky/NetflixThe lack of network breakouts continues to linger over the small-screen categories here with just one network drama – This is Us – getting a nomination for its star Sterling K Brown. He’s managed to add depth to what can feel like soap and he’d make a deserving winner. Nominating Rami Malek after a substandard season of Mr Robot feels a tad desperate while Peter Dinklage and Kevin Spacey didn’t have particularly standout seasons on either Game of Thrones or House of Cards. John Lithgow remains the likely winner here for playing Winston Churchill in The Crown as SAG voters are fans of voting for at least one long-termer a year.Who will win: John LithgowWho should win: Sterling K BrownEnsemble in a drama series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Alex Bailey/APAnother category dominated by freshman shows and given the large casts in both Westworld and Stranger Things, either could be a potential spoiler here. Especially Netflix’s 80s-set thriller which boasts some of the best child acting we’ve seen for a long time. But all signs point at The Crown winning out here with its stately cast of fine actors and if so, it would cause another long sigh of relief for Netflix who have already commissioned another five seasons.Who will win: The CrownWho should win: Stranger ThingsFemale actor in a supporting role      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: David Lee/APThanks also to her commanding work on the otherwise intensely silly small-screen thriller How to Get Away with Murder, Viola Davis is something of a favorite at the SAGs. It’s looking like she’ll come away with an award for the third year in a row, deservedly, for her shattering work in Fences. It’s undeniably a lead performance, but she’s been tactically shifted to supporting to ensure victory. Naomie Harris, Nicole Kidman and Octavia Spencer are unlikely to trouble her clear route to the stage, but Michelle Williams is the only chance of a spoiler here with her short but effective performance in Manchester by the Sea.Who will win: Viola DavisWho should win: Viola DavisMale actor in a supporting role      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: David Bornfriend/APPre-Golden Globes it was an unchallenged awards season for Moonlight’s Mahershala Ali. His soulful role as a paternal drug dealer won him every prize going and while it would have been great to see his other male co-stars receive some attention, especially a heartbreaking Trevante Rhodes, Ali was a deserving breakout star. But his Oscar chances were briefly questioned when Aaron Taylor-Johnson shocked with a Globe for his villainous role in Nocturnal Animals. It’s probably a blip, though, as he didn’t even receive a nod here and his fellow nominees (Lucas Hedges, Jeff Bridges, Hugh Grant and Dev Patel) are unlikely to threaten.Who will win: Mahershala AliWho should win: Mahershala AliFemale actor in a leading role      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Allstar/LionsgateAn interesting category here as it deviates from both the Oscars and the Globes with some choices, mainly Emily Blunt oddly receiving attention for the otherwise forgotten Girl on the Train. There’s also no Isabelle Huppert who was a surprise winner at the Globes for Elle and picked up an Oscar nomination earlier this week suggesting she could be a surprise spoiler. But it’s likely that the race here will be between Emma Stone and Natalie Portman for two entirely different films. While Portman’s dominating turn in Jackie allows her to embody a more rounded character, Stone is the likely winner here. The SAGs are after all voted for by actors and she’s playing a struggling starlet grimly facing a parade of tough auditions which will clearly strike a nerve.Who will win: Emma StoneWho should win: Natalie PortmanMale actor in a leading role      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Allstar/StudioCanal/UPIIn a year where diversity has been at least temporarily celebrated, the fact that Casey Affleck is a frontrunner is a somewhat telling sign that all is not equal. Would anyone else but a straight white American male be able to glide past grimy accusations of sexual harassment to win all the awards going? He’s likely to reign supreme at the SAGs too for his decent turn in Manchester by the Sea but, controversy or not, he’s not the deserving winner. That honor goes to Denzel Washington who took some much-appreciated time off from starring in The Magnificent Equalizer or whatever to remind us what an electrifying actor he can be in his adaptation of Fences.Who will win: Casey AffleckWho should win: Denzel WashingtonCast in a motion picture      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Composite: A24, Allstar & Rex FeaturesThere’s quite often a correlation between the winner of this award and the eventual recipient of the best picture Oscar, but this year’s odd-on favorite La La Land isn’t nominated, causing quite the stink. It’s hardly a snub though, given that the film is based around two characters, not enough to count as an ensemble. It leaves the race open to a possible two contenders: Manchester by the Sea and Moonlight. There’s a lot more love for Barry Jenkins’ powerful drama right now and given the three chapters and the range of striking performances within each time frame, it’s the most likely winner.Who will win: MoonlightWho should win: Moonlight