Amazon PrimeUnREALThe season two premiere of the meta US drama set behind the scenes of a fictional matchmaking show has landed on Prime, with new episodes due to be added soon after they air across the Atlantic. As things kick off, newly promoted series producer and all-round antiheroine Rachel decides to shake things up by casting Everlasting’s first black suitor. In the wake of this, boss Quinn decides that a racist contestant is an ideal addition to the show, with the producers once again relying on their tried-and-tested formula for manufacturing tears and tension. Soon things get crueller and more compelling than ever. All 10 episodes from season one are available to stream, too.Available nowBBC3Big FieldBBC3 has been poaching top talent from YouTube of late, with this new series of shorts following #HoodDocumentary in making the transition to full BBC online series. Its premise is engagingly daffy, with comics acting out scenes made from mash-ups of TV clips and old audio recordings in – you guessed it – a big field. Cue strange takes on Countdown and Antiques Roadshow in a series that feels Vic and Bob-esque in its manic energy and commitment to a thoroughly British strain of surrealism.Available from MondayProfessor Green: Dangerous DogsPro Green has shown himself to be a surprisingly adept and unwaveringly personal documentary maker, with his films on depression and homelessness offering a sobriety far detached from his cheeky rap persona. This looks at a recent spike in attacks on humans by dogs in the UK and challenges preconceptions over what constitutes a “dangerous” breed.Available from TuesdayPodcastRevisionist History      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Make it work... Malcolm GladwellThis podcast from New York-based culture site Slate sees Malcolm Gladwell delve into events that were either missed or misunderstood at the time they occurred. The Tipping Point author has long tried to make sense of the way the world works – how we achieve success, whether obstacles can be helpful, how ideas gain traction – with big theories that have seen him branded a visionary by some and overly optimistic by others. No matter which camp you’re in, his penchant for exploring themes through accessible, culture-heavy narratives is one that resonates in print, and is likely to make this 10-episode series a compelling listen.Available from ThursdayYouTubeDon’t Hug Me I’m ScaredFunded via Kickstarter, this faux-educational comedy series is brilliantly surreal. Vivid Sesame Street-style puppet trio Yellow Guy, Red Guy and Duck Guy explore everyday life via off-kilter musical numbers on themes such as creativity and healthy eating. However, said ditties end up being darker and more ridiculous than expected, from a time-explaining clock that makes the puppets’ ears bleed, to a song about love that almost lures Yellow Guy into a cult. Their sixth adventure is set to be released on Sunday; 19 June is a key date in the series’ mythology, and is set to be strange and hysterical in equal measure.Available now