The new superheroOn the back of a smug trailer and palpable levels of fanboy thigh-rubbing, superhero spinoff Deadpool was tracking at $55-60m late last month for its debut weekend. So how, three weeks later, did Fox unearth a crazy $135m (£94m) – the biggest February opening, biggest R-rated opening and biggest for the studio (more than all the X-Men films, from whose universe Deadpool hails)? The film itself is no game-changer, mostly sticking to the origin-story template, albeit frothing it up with a little nutzoid attitude. But its performance, making sequels inevitable, looks as if it could be; a dizzyingly high figure for R-rated material, surely the result of tireless geek mobilisation on social media that deployed viral-friendly marketing (such as its emoji-based billboard) and a star willing to go to bat for the film 24/7. Ryan Reynolds, after the failure of 2011’s Green Lantern, had ample motivation, and the quip-fire personality he’s always maintained on Twitter dovetailed perfectly with Deadpool’s tone.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch Deadpool – video reviewThe unexpected size of Deadpool’s success suggests one of those serendipitous, unplannable alignments of material and audience. A loquacious, fourth wall-disregarding, Spandex-clad id mirroring and stimulating 21st-century digital culture in all its dismissive hyperactivity. The film also provides sarky respite from the serious superhero films that have dominated blockbusters since Batman Begins. It’s meta and mildly deconstructionist, but not as ideologically so as fellow R-rated costumed caper Watchmen, whose domestic take ($107m) Deadpool has bested in a single weekend. Conforming to the expected superhero beats and maintaining loose connections to the X-Men universe, Deadpool also required less in the way of introduction than Kick-Ass – its closest cousin in potty-mouthed crimefighting. On a $58m budget, it had far more in the way of marketing cash than either Kick-Ass 1 or 2 – which only did $48.1m and $28.7m respectively in the US.Deadpool will be looking at $150m by the end of the four-day President’s day holiday. It didn’t start quite as strongly internationally as Fifty Shades of Grey, whose February US debut record it has overturned. But, promisingly, it’s outrunning last year’s similarly genre-subverting Kingsman: The Secret Service in all territories so far – and that film went on to do $286.1m globally; $74m of that was Chinese box office, which Deadpool will have to do without, as the country’s censors have baulked on account of graphic violence (odd, as Kingsman wasn’t exactly light on it). It’ll have to be content with shaking down Hong Kong, $3.8m this weekend, and $12.3m from Russia – perhaps the standout result from the international rollout. The first big surprise package of the year, Deadpool is a tough act for Warner Bros’ similarly middle-finger-extending Suicide Squad to follow in August.The Chinese new-year winner   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Mermaid trailerJust as impressive as Deadpool’s bullseye is the $109m Chinese weekend figure for Stephen Chow’s eco-comedy The Mermaid. It actually opened last Monday to a record $40.9m first day, and has powered on ever since. A Hong Kong veteran known for his mo lei tau (nonsensical) style of comedy, his early noughties films Shaolin Soccer and Kung Fu Hustle started to win him international audiences; and with the Chinese market expanding in the latter half of the decade, he has been well-placed to capitalise, 2013’s Journey to the West taking $196.7m (currently the country’s 12th highest-grossing film). The Mermaid – about a honeytrap scheme launched by a tribe of mermaids under threat from a greedy business tycoon – looks firmly in keeping with Chow’s fastidiously detailed cartoon humour. And, significantly, it’s a cut above local mainstream fare: according to Variety, “it’s increasingly rare to find a mainland Chinese blockbuster in which one is so swept up by the rich storyline and the charismatic cast that the technical aspects don’t even seem to matter”. On a current $260m running total after seven days, it’s already China’s second highest-grossing local film ever, with another $130m or so to go to beat the current champion, last year’s Monster Hunt. With the other two New Year bruisers – Chow Yun-fat’s gambling caper From Vegas to Macau 3 and mythological sequel The Monkey King 2 – also surging over the $100m mark, it’s going to be a historic month at the Chinese box office. Last Monday’s total $100.5m haul was the single biggest day ever there; 78% over 2015’s New Year opening. The week’s $548m is a global record for a single territory, beating North America’s $529.6m at the end of December 2015 when The Force Awakens was riding high. Incredibly, that’s more than the country’s annual total a decade ago. February last year was the first ever month in which China outgrossed the US. Technically, it didn’t beat North America, the US + Canada entity used by film distributors, but that is surely a done deal this year. Let’s hope The Mermaid gets some proper global exposure (it is released in the UK and Australia this coming weekend) and boosts the Chinese industry’s rep quality-wise, too.The comeback   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch the Zoolander 2 – video reviewThe return of Derek Zoolander met with a $15.7m No 4 US debut: stumbling on the spring ’16 catwalk, in other words. Distributor Paramount can’t really be faulted for choosing to open against Deadpool, as no one else anticipated that meteor-streak. But it’s likely the film has taken a hit, with the youth audience voting en masse for the Merc with a Mouth, despite a marketing campaign for Zoolander 2 that was just as noisy. With the original Zoolander performing tepidly in 2001 before mustering a coalition of cult fans on DVD etc, it was an open question whether 2016’s 18-25s would actually be hot for Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson. Paramount presumably hoped to muster the kind of repeat business they enjoyed with Anchorman 2 ($173.6m) – another reprisal of a slow-burning original. But the first Anchorman was almost twice as successful at the box office as the first Zoolander, and the sequel caught star Will Ferrell amid a chain of hits; Stiller and Wilson, in contrast, have been subdued presences since the mid-noughties. So Zoolander 2 is unsurprisingly charting under Anchorman 2 in key territories such as the UK (Z2: $2.7m; A2: $7.4m) and Australia (Z2: $2.5m; A2: $4.6m), which supplied over half of its $8.5m overseas start. With DVD looking as old-hat as Von Dutch these days, and the market immeasurably more crowded than 15 years ago, it’s doubtful whether Zoolander 2 can expect a home-video reprieve.Beyond HollywoodAside from China’s new-year-blockbuster trident, nothing new. South Korea’s holiday offering, prison comedy thriller A Violent Prosecutor, held up well, taking it to $54m – just outside the homegrown all-time top 10 for the country.The future   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon: Sword of Destiny - TrailerZip next weekend on the global-release front. Ahead of an internet release that’s already got the goat of major US theatre chains, Netflix and the Weinstein Company release their followup to Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon in cinemas in China. Sword of Destiny – drawn also from Wang Dulu’s Crane-Iron wuxia series, and directed by the original’s legendary action-choreographer Yuen Woo-ping – will be hoping for a smoother passage in the east than the 2000 Ang Lee masterpiece. That film found itself censored by the authorities and paid the price box office-wise for being ahead of the curve in relinking the Hong Kong industry with mainland Mandarin culture, while confusing both. But it banged the gong in splendid style for Chinese film-making internationally as the country was beginning to open up. If Sword of Destiny can rustle up even half of its $213.5m take, then that would confirm, after Beasts of No Nation, another new epoch: that of Netflix and the web-release window. In India, meanwhile, Anil Kapoor’s daughter Sonam looks to build on her role in last year’s Salman Khan smash Prem Ratan Dhan Payo with the lead in this week’s based-on-real-events thriller Neerja. She plays the flight attendant murdered trying to save passengers in a 1986 Karachi hijacking. Distributor Fox Star, local subsidiary of the Hollywood giant, are also hoping to get 2016 off to a sturdy start after making noticeable in-roads into Bollywood last year.Top 10 global box office, 12-14 February1. (New) Deadpool, $260m from 62 territories – 48.1% international; 51.9% US2. (New) The Mermaid, $109m from four territories. $260m cum – 100% int3. (New) The Monkey King 2, $38m from nine territories. $113.2m cum – 99.9% int; 0.1% US4. (New) From Vegas to Macau 3, $36.1m from eight territories. $120.3m cum – 99.7% int; 0.3% US5. Kung Fu Panda 3, $34.3m from eight territories. $256.1m cum – 63.3% int; 36.7% US6. (New) How to Be Single, $26.9m from 41 territories – 30.2% int; 69.8% US7. (New) Zoolander 2, $24.2m from 21 territories – 35.2% int; 64.8% US8. The Revenant, $20.9m from 67 territories. $361.2m cum – 55.9% int; 44.1% US9. Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Road Chip, $15.6m from 53 territories. $192.2m cum – 56.3% int; 43.7% US10. A Violent Prosecutor, $11m from one territory. $54m cum – 100% int• Thanks to Rentrak. This week’s figures are based on estimates; all historical figures unadjusted, unless otherwise stated.