It is almost impossible to convey the extraordinary landscape of an inhabited coral atoll without seeing it firsthand. From the sky, the thin strips of low-lying land surrounding turquoise blue lagoons make sense as a refuge for the explorer who has been months at sea. But as a place to live, build a home and create a culture it feels the most unlikely site for human society.At most points water can be seen on both sides of these strips of land. As sandbars between islets have been converted into roads the impression is created that in many places the width of the country is the width of the street.Labor champions plan to resettle Pacific climate change migrants Footpaths, guttering, sewerage, landfill – issues that were overcome decades ago in normal terrestrial environments – represent a complex set of problems in countries like the Marshall Islands, Kiribati and Tuvalu, for which viable solutions have yet to be found. Every square inch of land matters. On Kiribati, there is no escaping the ruthless geographic constraints – graves prove an odd sight in many people’s small front gardens – an unavoidable by-product of having no space to bury the dead.While land is a necessary precondition for life, people live on these atolls because of the sea. It is the source of food, culture and legend. These are marine people whose ancient understanding of the wind and the waves still often transcends what modern equipment has to offer.Yet as the greenhouse effect starts to take hold these winds are beginning to change. Predictable weather patterns in equatorial environments which produced constant temperatures, regular rains and seasonal storms are no longer behaving. Life is being disturbed.Of all the climate change threats to coral atolls the most pressing is water security. On Tarawa atoll in Kiribati, half the fresh ground water supply is now permanently salty.On Funafuti in Tuvalu there is no groundwater, which leaves people dependent on water tanks next to their homes – many of which have been provided by Australian aid. But even with extra tanks the water supply of the atoll amounts to about six weeks worth of water.Labor says Australia must 'tell story of Pacific to world' at Paris climate talks In November 2011 reduced rainfall brought the atoll to a point where the water supply was down to just a few days. Drastic water restrictions were imposed which essentially allowed for little more than the bare minimum of drinking water. Australian and New Zealand mercy flights had to airlift an emergency supply of water on to the island.This community had lived on the atoll for centuries relying on highly predicable rainfall in order to have a supply of fresh water. Just a small shift in weather patterns had suddenly overwhelmed even the enhanced infrastructure to a point where there was almost no water. When winds and rain change, the conditions of life are thrown into question.This question raises another for Australia. Kiribati and Tuvalu are in a region where Australia has enormous influence and great obligations. We are for both countries the natural development partner and by far the largest aid donor. In large measure it is this work which sits atop our calling card as a good global citizen. And we derive much from that reputation.If climate change is beginning to raise the existential question in the Pacific then this also has implications for our obligations. This does not have to be a scary debate for us. To be sure, the desire for the peoples of the Pacific to migrate because of climate change will not happen tomorrow. The focus of all these communities right now is naturally on how they maintain their homes, lives and cultures. And currently they see the critical role for Australia as playing its part in reducing greenhouse emissions and in supporting them with adaptation efforts.But if climate change is placing the viability of communities in question, then inevitably some people will move as a result. So Australia being a destination for climate change migrants surely has to be up for discussion.Yet this is a public debate we have barely even begun. This does not have to be a scary debate for us. Australia has an annual net permanent migration intake of just over 200,000 people. The total combined population of the atoll nations of Kiribati and Tuvalu is about 120,000. Not all of these people will seek to come to Australia. Indeed none may come. And if any do, it will not be in the next few years and it will not be all at once.Losing paradise: the people displaced by atomic bombs, and now climate change But if we are to avoid another fraught debate in a space which has been the source of more than its fair share, we have to talk about this now rather than wait until the issue is upon us.Australia is rightly proud of the generosity of our humanitarian immigration program. While our intake is proportionately the largest in the world, what this misses is that Australia is not adjacent to any large source of refugees. It is countries like Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey which bear the biggest burden of the conflict in Syria.It is in this sense that the Pacific must be our issue. And the movement of people is a part of that. To deny this would be to dramatically alter Australia’s place in the world, both in terms of how the world views us and more importantly how we view ourselves.