The North Sea joins the English Channel at the Belgian coastal city of Ostend. J.M.W. Turner visited Ostend on three occasions. Two paintings were the product of his last visit in 1840; Ostend Harbour and Ostend. They both capture the town twenty years before its most celebrated artist, James Ensor (1860-1949), was born and also before the small fishing port was transformed under the patronage of Leopold II, King of Belgium, into a bustling, fashionable resort popular with English tourists known as the ‘Queen of Belgian Beaches.’Like Turner, Ensor was drawn to the light of the North Sea with its dramatic seasonal changes, from clear blue skies in the summer to dark foreboding clouds in the winter. In his collected writings Ecrits, published in 1921, Ensor wrote “I have no children, but light is my daughter, light one and indivisible, light, the painter’s bread, light, the painter’s crumb, light, queen of our senses.”Although Ensor was a rare traveller, he came to London for four days in 1892 to study Turner and he undoubtedly became an influence on his work. Ensor captured the alluring light of the North Sea in his beachscapes, for example, the Bathing Hut (1876) when he was still only sixteen and studying at the Académie des Beaux Arts d’Ostend.His painting Large View of Ostend (Rooftops of Ostend) (1884) reveals the depth of his interest in Turner. The view of his home town, from the attic studio of his parent’s house, is dominated by the vast sky complete with boiling clouds. Closer inspection reveals the roof tops and church spire cowering under this brooding sky. Curated by celebrated contemporary Belgian artist Luc Tuymans, ‘Intrigue: James Ensor by Luc Tuymans,’ presents a rare opportunity to reappraise the extraordinary career of an artist who has, despite having an English father, been surprisingly overlooked in the UK.With James Ensor’s visions of the sea in mind we’d like to see your own work on the theme of North Sea. How to share your artworkShare an image of your artwork via GuardianWitness, by clicking the blue “contribute” button on this page, or via the Android or iPhone app. If you have any problems, email us at userhelp@theguardian.com.We’ll feature some of our favourite submissions on the Guardian’s art and design site. By sending us your pictures you: a) acknowledge that you have created the pictures or have permission to do so; and b) grant us a non-exclusive, worldwide, free licence to publish your pictures as described. Copyright resides with you, and you may reuse your pictures however you wish. Read our full terms and conditions.Don’t worry if they don’t appear immediately – everything has to be approved before it can be “hung” in our online gallery. Do tell us in the comments if there are any improvements we could make to the series.Intrigue: James Ensor by Luc Tuymans is at the Sackler Wing of Galleries at the Royal Academy of Arts until 29 January 2017