If there is a massive overlap between your love of karaoke and your penchant for Judge Judy, Jack Tan’s new show could be your perfect night out. Karaoke Court is a real-life arbitration process, in front of a bona fide circuit judge, where the audience gets to play jury. It’s an opportunity for anyone to battle out their disputes through the medium of song, crucially within arm’s reach of a fully stocked bar. The audience have to make a decision: facts or performance, reason or aesthetics, ​​head or heart Summonses have already been sent out for the latest court session at London’s Yard theatre – bang in the middle of a Hackney Wick industrial estate. As in a normal court, the judge sits on high in a very big chair. The audience, red and green cards in hand, must be prepared to give a verdict on the cases sung before them. Last-minute disputes are encouraged (though there are limited spots), so if you’ve got beef with someone bring them with you and arrive early to fill out the paperwork. When Karaoke Court debuted in Singapore last year, one of the more controversial cases concerned a mum whose daughter wanted to overturn a 9pm curfew. The daughter was 27. When the judge read out the facts of the case, it seemed clear cut. But then the mum warbled emotionally through the Carpenters’ Close to You – and successfully defended her position. Waah?It’s all in the performance, says Tan, who makes work at the intersection of law and art. “If you were there you would know why. I’m trying to create a crisis – the audience have to make a decision between the facts of the case and the performance, between reason and aesthetics, head and heart.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Litigants at Karaoke Court in Singapore, 2015. Photograph: Weizhong/truphotos.comTan was destined to end up in a courtroom. As a dutiful son in Singapore, his future was plotted out for him. “I wanted to study English literature and, you know, typical Asian family: ‘No you can’t. I’m not sending you to do something useless. You choose lawyer, doctor, engineer, accountant.’” So he did, coming to study in the UK, then taking up a training contract in the law.  This is litigation as part of a festival ... a sing-off He became the model of an idealistic legal campaigner on issues including racism and domestic violence. Then, in his 30s, disillusionment set in. “When the Iraq protest failed, it led me to questioning: what’s the point in campaigning?” Disenchanted with the law and its ability to change anything, there was only one thing for it. Tan joined a pottery night class. In Aylesbury. “It was me and a bunch of old ladies,” he says. “My ceramics teacher looked at my crap pots and said, ‘There’s something in them.’ That was the first thing I learned about art; even if it looks crap, it can still have something in it.” It was also the moment this trainee solicitor, about to be offered a job in a commercial litigation department, decided to rebel and retrain in ceramics. His family weren’t happy, even when an MA from the Royal College of Art followed. But a decade later and Tan was ready to bring law to the forefront again, inspired by the alternatives to our adversarial legal system he learned about during his original law degree. “There was spoon-hitting and knee-kicking as a way of solving disputes,” he recalls – but the one that stood out was the Inuit tradition of song duels. “Litigation as part of a festival. A sing-off.”Stripparaoke: the new nightlife trend that combines – yes – stripping and karaoke Litigation is so removed from the community in the west, he points out, we turn it into something abstract. “Say two neighbours in a street have a dispute. They actually go somewhere else, to a court, to have a fight, as if it doesn’t affect their home life. Claims and counterclaims, appeals, everything. It snowballs. And of course someone will win, because that’s how the system works, but who really wins? Everyone spends loads of money, is dragged through this process, and the two parties may still be pissed off with each other.” Not at Karaoke Court they won’t. “You can’t get angry,” reasons Tan. “You’re singing to each other with cheesy arm movements. You’d be a real party pooper.”Tan’s project was as such a success in Singapore, there are rumours of a TV version. But first it’s coming to London, where newly cohabiting couple Marissa and Tom are willing to put their future in the audience’s hands. What is the case? “Right” begins Marissa, “he doesn’t want to live in the UK. We’ve talked about kids and I want my kids to get what London has given me. And Tom just wants to leave the UK, because he thinks it’ll be better abroad; the sun shines, people are happy.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s a classic couples dispute on where’s best to bring up your future kids. Tom takes over. “We get into this flary dispute every time we talk about it. I just feel this country is not going in a good direction. There’s a lot of controversy and I think it’s going to become quite violent over the next few years with clashes and riots.” A lot of eye rolling and shaking of heads follows. The couple have agreed that if Marissa wins they will stay in London for at least three years. If Tom wins they will leave the country by April 2017. Tom’s hoping his rendition of Craig David’s Walking Away will get the audience on side. Marissa’s considering singing Stay Another Day by East 17. They both agree on one thing: Karaoke Court is a good way to solve the issue. As Marissa says: “Singing is better than arguing.”• Karaoke Court is part of Law’s Imagination at the Arebyte Gallery, Yard theatre, London, on 23 June