Alex Cameron’s She’s Mine: the best of this week’s new music Alex Cameron is your new favourite loser. Or, to put it more poetically, he’s music’s rising connoisseur of failure. A character songwriter in the guise of a Lynchian cabaret act, he peoples his synthpop with stories more suited to AA meetings than song-and-dance routines. Meanwhile, his artistic persona embodies all the disappointment and desperation that showbusiness can foster. Dreams curdle over peppy drum machine beats. Spirits sink to soaring 80s melodies. His show is at once a deflation and a celebration of the idea of the entertainer.“I write about the outlier, the table-for-one guy, the guy whose life is a constellation of microscopic tragedies,” says the singer from Sydney, who’s just released his debut album, Jumping The Shark. “Failure has been underexplored in music. My characters come from a place where ambition, crippling self-doubt and tragedy intersect.” Fans of Nick Cave’s midlife crisis moments and Stephin Merritt’s wry songwriting are likely to approve.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Cameron’s style may verge on the parodic, but he takes his theme seriously and has compassion for his characters. Album opener Happy Ending takes a seat at the bar with a laid-off financier living back with his folks. Single The Comeback, with its vocal full of brooding bombast, meanwhile, is the tale of a washed-up gameshow host. Somehow, these stories attain tear-jerking levels of dignity through being performed by a guy with hyperbolic dance moves, peculiar hair and only a seedy looking saxophonist, Roy Molloy, for company. “Shame,” as Cameron says, “is the first thing any good performer loses.”Many have experienced the degradations of the small musician striving for greatness, yet few have explored them centre-stage. It’s not a recent preoccupation for Cameron. In 2014, he and Roy made a short film about music showcase SXSW from the perspective of “a fucking nobody”, where for every breakthrough buzz band there are hundreds of others playing to no one. Watch it in full on YouTube, where you’ll see the pair traipsing the streets like stray dogs before performing outside a venue’s rear exit. It’s a sub-support slot, but Cameron’s giving it his all. Beneath the jaded wit, a sincere belief in the transformative power of entertainment survives. As he puts it, “I believe in magic.”Cali psych-pop duo Foxygen have been vocal Alex Cameron fans since catching him at David Lynch’s Paris nightclub Silencio. Angel Olsen listens to him at the gym. Is 2016 destined to be the year of the “fucking nobody”? “You calling me a nobody?” says Cameron. “I play shows on recreationally sized fishing boats. I got three email addresses that are all functioning. I got an unpaid intern teaching me how to use Snapchat.”All Cameron needs now, he says, is for us to buy his album so he can afford to un-impound his car. Then 2016 will be his. “And I’m taking 2017 for good measure.”Jumping The Shark is out now via Secretly Canadian. Alex Cameron tours the UK in November