There’s writing, and then there’s writing culture. In America, that culture ferments in the masters of fine arts writing programs scattered among the overpriced liberal arts colleges that stretch from the eastern seaboard to the northern California coast. Over the past 20 or so years, countless hundreds of aspiring Franzens and Foster Wallaces have enrolled in MFA programs hoping to write a breakout, earth-shattering novel that sets them on the course to literary renown and complimentary trips to writers’ retreats in Caribbean resort towns.The efficacy of MFA programs has been hotly disputed as of late, as its critics wonder whether it is creating a class of groupthink prose stylists all churning out the same “young white person’s guide to life” novels. The literary quarterly n+1 published an entire book of essays devoted to the topic, while last season’s Girls featured a storyline in which the Lena Dunham character dropped out of an MFA program full of smug, pretentious literary bullies.Now comes Dylan Hicks’ Amateurs, a sharply observed and very funny novel about a group of twentysomething strivers whose ambitions for a writerly life have hit the shoals of real life. Hicks, who never attended an MFA program, nevertheless has perfect pitch; his characters are painfully self-conscious, seething with envy, and intent on proving their literary bona fides, even when they haven’t written a thing. To Hicks’ cast of thwarted strivers, literary success is tantamount to self-worth; without it, they flail aimlessly. “When you’ve tied up your self-worth in the pursuit of publishing a great novel, you become wrapped up in how the world sees you,” Hicks says from his home in Minneapolis. “It’s not a healthy way to live.” Before he began writing fiction in earnest (Amateurs is his second novel; his first, Boarded Windows, was published in 2012), Hicks was an aspiring singer-songwriter. It was then that he learned how dreams can curdle and die. “I made a cassette when I was 19 and sent it out on a lark,” he says. “Then I got more ambitious and developed professional ambitions for it. Then I realized I couldn’t make a living at it, not even $13,000 a year, and I just stopped playing music. It was like a painful divorce.” Hicks wound up making an album, Dylan Hicks Sings Bolling Greene, as a kind of musical analogue to Boarded Windows: “When I no longer had to worry about making a living at it, I went back to making music for the fun of it.” Hicks’ characters, in contrast, can’t seem to find that equilibrium between pragmatism and their frothy idealism. Amateurs’ Lucas is one of Hicks’ soft failures. Lucas came up a few credits short of completing his MFA degree, and effectively gives up on a meaningful career; instead he thinks about making recyclable grocery bags. He is plagued by crushing self-consciousness and a failure of imagination in regard to his own career path. Having convinced himself that there is only one true way, and that he has failed miserably at it, he has become his own worst enemy. “I think I’m probably that way,” says Hicks. “But I think I’ve gotten better as I’ve gotten older. I don’t believe I’m self-conscious in that extremely narcissistic or judgmental way. Fortunately, I’ve grown out of it.” Imaginative courage doesn’t come easy for Hicks’ characters. Lucas’ roommate Sarah Crennel, a once-promising writer, is hired by Archer Bondarenko, an arrogant novelist and sex-toy heir, to edit his second book. Sara, freed up from the burden of having to create something under her own name, winds up ghost-writing Archer’s book, then demands equal credit when the novel becomes a big commercial and critical hit. “As an aspiring artist, your self-worth is entirely wrapped up in your pursuit, and how people respond to it,” Hicks says. “That’s how I was as a young musician, but I had a lot more fun doing it when those feelings weren’t as strong.”Not that Hicks disparages writers that study writing; on the contrary, he admires many novelists who have come out of MFA programs with their individual voices intact. What Hicks has fun with is the way a certain kind of insecure young writer carries himself: too attentive to the way they articulate themselves in public, quick to correct the most picayune and arcane facts, preening and peacocking their high-cultural knowledge at cocktail parties. It is, of course, a smokescreen, over-compensation for their lack of success.For the novel’s structure and infelicitous tone, Hicks borrowed not only from great comic novels (Hicks is a big Evelyn Waugh fan) but Hollywood romcoms, with their criss-crossing romantic dalliances and inchoate yearnings for love, money, security. “I like playing with romcom forms, but there’s also some Jane Austen in there, too,” he says. “I’m attracted to the idea of provincial aristocracies, of which Archer is a member.”“Provincial” is an apt description for Hicks’ cast of characters. Stuck in their closed literary ecosystem, unable to breathe the rarified air of success, they settle for less and continue to daydream about future ventures that will never come to pass. “I’m curious as to how certain writers behave, how they set their expectations so low, when it doesn’t work out for them,” Hicks says. “At the same, they have no issue with selling out if it’s advantageous for them. Sara wonders whether selling out, by working with Archer, will be a black mark, but do most millennials really concern themselves with such a thing any more?” If any character in the book mirrors Hicks’ own experiences with creative pursuits, it’s Archer’s cousin Karyn, who manages to find that golden mean between creative aspirations and a professional workaday routine. “She doesn’t get seduced by money and success, yet she works on a creative project on the side,” says Hicks. “She’s kind of the only real adult in the book.” Amateurs by Dylan Hicks is available now in the United States