There’s little that Gary Matthews doesn’t know about the Everglades, Florida’s famed river of grass he’s been exploring since he was a schoolboy. His vast knowledge of the flora, fauna and wildlife of the state’s great wilderness has been built during decades of expeditions into the back country by airboat, swamp buggy and all-terrain vehicle.Proud of his life as a professional outdoorsman, “Gator Gary”, as he likes to be known, enjoys sharing his adventures with the diverse range of clients he takes deep into the Everglades aboard his fleet of airboats, from tourists eager to capture a photo of a hungry alligator to scientists from the US Geological Survey testing levels of pollutants in the water.Obama in the Everglades to raise alarm on climate change Matthews is also a Republican, and might therefore be expected to be cynical of Barack Obama’s flying visit to the south Florida wetlands on Wednesday to deliver a speech on climate change. “How long has Obama been office? And he finally comes to the Everglades now? Where he was on day one?” he wonders.Yet having witnessed first-hand the many negative and human-initiated changes that have impacted the fragile ecosystem of the Everglades over the years, Matthews is at least curious to hear what Obama has to say. Particular problems are polluted runoff flowing south from central Florida’s agricultural and big sugar industries; a 93% reduction in the population of native wading birds and a significant loss of other rare or endangered wildlife, partly caused by mercury poisoning; and more recently the devastation threatened by the increased salination of groundwater linked to sea level rise.“I’m on both sides of the fence,” he admits. “I am as green as you can be, and I am as Republican as you can be, but I will vote for the party that looks out for my children’s children. We have to leave this place beautiful for our grandchildren’s grandchildren.”Matthews does, however, follow a more traditionally Republican line on the cause of climate change broadly similar to that of Marco Rubio, the Florida senator and presidential candidate who doesn’t deny that it exists but doubts that human activity is responsible “the way these scientists are portraying it”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Degradation of the Everglades has been going on pretty much unchecked for more than a century. Photograph: Richard Luscombe/Guardian“Man’s influence is there, but what we are seeing is nature,” Matthews insists. “We might be speeding it up, we might be slowing it down, but it’s nature and it’s constantly changing. I am all for forcing people to have solar panels, drive electric cars and stop polluting the air, but it has nothing to do with ice melt. Rubio’s point is correct, but it’s our responsibility as humans who live on Earth to take care of the Earth.”Stretching west across the Florida peninsula from Miami lies the Tamiami Trail, home to many of the airboat operators who, like Gator Gary, earn their living from the Everglades. The names of the various businesses, such as Buffalo Tiger’s, Osceola Panther’s and Tigertails, evoke an earlier era, one of Native Americans paddling wooden canoes gently in harmony with nature, long before industrialisation arrived to spoil it.It’s a tranquil image the tourism industry likes to promote, but the reality is markedly different. Degradation of the Everglades has been going on pretty much unchecked for more than a century, with so many acres of the wetlands drained for agriculture and development since 1900 that now only 50% of the original area is left, according to the US Geological Survey.The surviving 4 million acres, which provide water to more than 6 million people, remain under threat from the influence of sea level rise reaching far inland and saltwater seeping into the Everglades’ porous underground freshwater aquifers, according to the National Parks Service’s own scientists.Join the Guardian's climate change campaign Rick Tyre, a guide with Coopertown Airboats, one of the “big four” companies with a permit to operate in the Everglades “expansion lands” adjacent to the national park, says it’s an issue that visitors are increasingly concerned about.“We tell them that it’s cyclical, that the water rises and falls in the Everglades with the seasons, but it’s definitely an issue,” he said. “Right now we’re in a drought and the water’s real low, that’s when it’s a problem.”Several days of thunderstorms appear to have marked an early start to south Florida’s wet season, allowing water levels to rise again and the airboat operators to resume full schedules. For Matthews, who says he has lost $18,000 in bookings during the final weeks of the dry season while his boats could not go out, it could not come soon enough.On his first trip back out on Tuesday, Matthews pointed to the disappearance of hardwood hammocks and trees suffering from root rot as indications of changes in water quality in the Everglades. He also believes some of the issues in the Everglades could be fixed with improved water storage and distribution, particularly after storms.Politics, as always, gets in the way. Successive governments, at state and federal level, have cut back funding for restoration measures, and the conservation momentum has stalled. “I’ve watched the Everglades pendulum swing right to left, Republican to Democrat, over and over,” he says. “Everything in the Everglades, every decision is politically motivated, constantly motivated by greed or political mannerisms.“Obama will say whatever’s politically correct to gain votes for his party. [But] there needs to be a unified approach to bringing back nature.”As things stand, Matthews, 63, wonders how much longer the traditional way of life for so many who work in and enjoy the Everglades, the generations of airboaters, hunters and fishermen, will be sustainable. He believes that within 10 years there could be only one airboat company operating with the blessing if park officials. “People want to come to the Everglades to experience what it’s really like in the swamp. We don’t want a time when they’ll have to just look at it on Google Earth,” he said.“But opinion seems to be against outdoorsmen as a whole. Yet it’s not my airboat that’s pumping out all those carbon emissions. It’s Obama’s jet.”