It’s shocking to think that Lifetime, better known for its sudsy dramas and made-for-TV movies about women in peril, is the home to one of the best, darkest, funniest and most original shows on all of television. I’m talking about UnREAL. Yes, it is spelled like that, but don’t let all of those shouting capital letters deter you from one of the smartest shows around. With the sort of female antiheroes and complicated dissections of gender that you won’t find anywhere else, this is the “television for women” we’ve always wanted. UnREAL is a drama about making the reality show Everlasting, which is almost identical to The Bachelor. Sarah Gertrude Shapiro, a longtime producer on The Bachelor, and Marti Noxon, a writer on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, created the series based on Shapiro’s movie Sequin Raze. (Shapiro makes excellent things with really bad titles.) The second season of UnREAL kicked off on Monday and proved the perfect time to catch up with the action. (For those who want to binge season one, it’s available in its entirety on Hulu.) Since each season of UnREAL charts one season of Everlasting, all the the characters and situations on the show within a show are just as new to the initiated as they are to novices.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   BJ Britt and Meagan Tandy: a contestant and a putative wifey. Photograph: Bettina Strauss/LifetimeThe new season focuses on the first black “suitor”, as they call the guy who is hunting after the women. He’s Darius Beck (BJ Britt) a hunky NFL player who ran afoul of the press after calling a female reporter a “bitch”, and he’s going on the show to complete his tour of contrition. He’s surrounded by a bunch of good girls suitable to win his hand (called “wifeys”), unstable aggressive women there to create fights (“villains” or “bitches”), and girls with hot bodies and loose morals there to shake things up (“sluts”). It’s not the competition in Everlasting that is the real draw. Instead it’s the quippy insults from showrunner Quinn and producer Rachel. There’s a constant struggle for control over Everlasting as each member of the crew tries to push her own agenda, often using the contestants as pawns. As Rachel says in the season two premiere, “Everyone’s manipulating everyone, but I’m the only one doing it for the right reasons.” Of course Rachel would say that. She’s an expert in using half-truths to get what she wants. It’s the Everlasting crew that really drives UnREAL, but their backstory is easy and it’s all you need to know to jump right in. So let’s meet these reality TV wizards, shall we?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Everlasting … but the real drama is behind the scenes. Photograph: Lifetime/Sergei BachlakovRachel Goldberg (Shiri Appleby): A longtime producer on Everlasting, she created a ratings sensation when she got in front of the camera during a season finale and called the show she works on “Satan’s asshole”. She’s hired back because Rachel, who has a history of manic episodes and was raised by a psychologist mother, is the only person who can get into the contestants’ heads and deliver great television. She knows that how she treats these women is awful, but this job is the only one she is good at and needs it to get her out of debt. She also has a habit of sleeping with people who are involved in the show. During season one, Rachel was sleeping with both cameraman Jeremy and that season’s suitor Adam (Freddie Stroma). At the end of the season, she chose to remain single and broke up with both of them. Quinn King (Constance Zimmer): She’s the quick-witted, foul-mouthed showrunner of Everlasting who has been with the show since the beginning. She constantly pushes Rachel and the other producers to make great television by wreaking havoc with the contestants’ lives. She’s sleeping with Chet, the show’s creator, and has been letting him steal her ideas for reality shows for the duration of their relationship. Eventually she wants credit for the work she has done rather than the bumbling Chet and sues him for control of the show and wins. At the end of season one she ends up alone, but she’s still got Rachel – two miserable souls making America’s favorite fairytale. Chet Wilton (Craig Bierko): Chet created Everlasting and has made the network tons of money, but he would rather drink, do cocaine and have sex with the staff than actually run the show, which he leaves to Quinn and her producers. He eventually leaves his wife to propose to Quinn, who accepts. She catches Chet having oral sex with one of the production assistants and decides to take her revenge by finally getting credit for the show and wrests control of it from him. He made it easy when one of the producers kept an emotionally unstable contestant’s pills away from her, which causes her to commit suicide on camera. It made for huge ratings, but a headache – to say the least – for the network. Jeremy Caner (Josh Kelly): Rachel’s ex-boyfriend who is a cameraman on the show. They were going to leave Everlasting and pursue their dreams of being real artists, but after her meltdown Jeremy decided to stay on the show. He leaves his girlfriend, a makeup artist on the show, to get back together with Rachel, who breaks up with him after ruining his life. He’s real bitter about it. Jay (Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman): Another one of the producers on the show who is alternatively Rachel’s friend and foe. Madison (Genevieve Buechner): The meek PA who Chet messed around with. She gets promoted to producer for her, um, service.Dr Wagerstein (Amy Hill): The show’s psychologist who is nominally around in case the women are having trouble being eliminated from the show. She is really there to tell the producers which buttons they should push to get the most drama on the show as possible. She’s also treating Rachel who is forced to see a psychologist when she runs afoul of the law. Olive Goldberg (Mimi Kuzyk): Rachel’s psychiatrist mother who doesn’t appear on camera often, but had a huge effect on her daughter. All of her years of prodding and medicating her daughter has led to Rachel’s intense insight into the women she works with but has also made her wary of medication and in search of mother figure like Quinn. • UnREAL, which airs on Lifetime in America, is being fast-tracked to Australia via Stan each Tuesday