The first shoes Justin Tipping bought using his own money were white Nike Air Prestos. They were so cool everyone wanted them – or so it seemed when 10 kids jumped him and walked off with his shoes. All Tipping had to show afterward was a bruised face. “The next day while I was walking through school, every other guy, even if I didn’t know him, took five seconds out of his day to walk up to me and say, ‘Oh you got fucked up, man’ and laugh at me,’” recalls Tipping, who makes his directing debut with Kicks, released on Friday.  When Tipping arrived at graduate school at the American Film Institute Conservatory, he was “trying to find my story, my American movie. I knew I wanted to look at issues surrounding masculinity and violence so I thought back to my own experience. “I thought back to getting stomped out and the aftermath and thought that moment was a good way in to explore why boys act the way they do, why there are these weird social hierarchies that exist and that have been there for generations,” he says.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  At AFI, he earned a Student Academy Award for the short film Nani, which he co-wrote with Joshua Beirne-Golden; then they teamed up to write Kicks, a coming-of-age film that’s much more than a boy-meets-shoe, boy-loses-shoe, boy-gets-shoe-back story.  A compelling mixture of the gritty and surreal, Kicks tells the story of Brandon, an undersized Bay Area teen caught between the dreams of childhood and the harsh actuality of adolescence. The film opens with Brandon talking over a slow motion foot chase ... and a floating astronaut only Brandon sees. This symbol of Brandon’s isolation and his desire for escape, is a recurring motif throughout the movie. When Brandon obtains the shoes he covets – Bred Ones (Black and Red Jordan Ones, a renowned shoe among sneakerheads) – he’s convinced his stature will grow. But like Tipping, he gets beaten up and robbed. (This being 2016, the aggressors also record the incident on their phones and post it online.) Humiliated and desperate to recover his shoes, Brandon and his two best friends undertake a classic hero’s quest. Their journey reveals the consequences of macho posturing and ultimately forces them to confront their values and those of their community.  It feel like a quintessential urban American tale but Tipping draws from a wider array of influences. Growing up in the Bay Area, he loved mainstream movies – Steven Spielberg, John Hughes and Star Wars – while dreaming of becoming a rap star. (“Big mistake,” he acknowledges.) In college, Tipping spent a semester in Rome and became entranced by Italian cinema; returning to the University of California at Santa Barbara, he switched from economics to film and media studies and says that for Kicks he drew upon his time in Rome as well as the French classic, The Bicycle Thief. Still, much of the movie is distinctly personal, such as the use of rap to bolster the narrative and, of course, the astronaut. “It took a lot to convince people,” he says, because it would be expensive and time-consuming on an indie film. Tipping insisted it was essential to the film – “I would rather have made a different movie until I was able to make this with the vision I wanted” – and ultimately prevailed. Tipping also carefully tracked the script’s violence. The shocking first fatality transpires before a gun can be fired. “I did not want to Tarantino anything,” Tipping says. “These are real issues kids are facing and if you glamorize it then it becomes disrespectful.” The director wanted the audience to feel anxious even when no violence was occurring onscreen, to give a sense of the the toll taken by living in that environment. “I lived in constant anxiety when I was young.” Tipping also strove to make Flaco and Marlon, Brandon’s murderous uncle, more than one-dimensional gangsters. “If I set them up as ‘that thug’ then they’re easy to dismiss,” Tipping says. Instead both are depicted as trying, in deeply flawed ways, to be responsible and loving family men. “I think about the kids stomping me out and what happened to them that made them think it was OK to beat the crap out of anyone. It must have been more painful than anything I’d been through.”Despite this thoughtful approach, the movie is rated R because the teenage boys talk like, well, teenage boys. Tipping contrasts it with Jason Bourne, which “has an execution-style scene every two minutes”, but is rated PG-13, “so they can show that in a high school but they can’t show Kicks there.” Casting was crucial, especially since Tipping used relatively inexperienced actors with little rehearsal time on a low budget. He saw an instant connection between 13-year-old Jahking Guillory (Brandon) and Christopher Meyer (Rico) and CJ Wallace (Albert), both 17. “There was this natural dynamic where they treated [Guillory] like a younger brother and you could see he’d be bragadocious and wanted to be like them. It was raw and authentic.” They gelled so well at the audition that Wallace, the son of the late rapper Biggie Smalls, took Meyer’s phone number, knowing they’d both get cast. “What you see is on the screen – those guys really became my best friends,” says Meyer. Authenticity came easy for Guillory. “I was always the underdog, the smallest person in my neighborhood and with my long hair people teased me that I looked like a little girl,” he says, although instead of using violence he’d prove teasers wrong as a local football and track star in Long Beach, California. Unlike Brandon, Guillory says he wouldn’t attack a bully to get his sneakers back. “I’d just tell the dude’s mom,” he laughs. Wallace, raised to be polite and well-behaved, reveled in the chance to indulge in Albert’s “talk to any girl, say anything and believe everything. It was like a little escape for me to break all the rules”. Tipping says the teenagers had a natural feel for what their characters would say. He allowed numerous takes, especially for Wallace. “He’d have us laughing so hard I’d say, ‘let’s do 10 more,’” Tipping says. However, some humour was cut “otherwise the audience wouldn’t pay attention to the next scene”. Wallace cites a deleted car chase “where I was going off like Chris Tucker” that would have tilted the tone of the movie too much. The rookie director also knew how to draw emotions from his young cast. Before they started filming, Tipping asked Guillory to think about someone he’d lost – “my great-grandma was my best friend” – and then talked to him about it on set when Guillory needed to cry. Tipping had one final casting challenge: the shoes in question. “I spent weeks changing my mind – from Space Jams to red Toro Bravos,” he says, although they were always Air Jordans, the original status shoe.  Needing a timeless style, he finally chose Bred Ones ... but then needed a new pair – two actually, in case the star got scuffed up. “We were so strapped for cash, having spent 80% of our wardrobe budget on the astronaut costume so I dug deep into my own pockets,” he says. While it’s “a little embarrassing” to admit, he’s basically the same shoe size Guillory was at 13 so he kept both pairs for himself. “Score for me,” he says. “I have not been jumped for them yet.”