The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Mu: Let’s Get Sick   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This track is insane. Maurice Fulton’s stuff sounds so alien but so wild and funky. This always makes people freak out. This track is quite old and I was into this album when I was at college years ago. I recently randomly came across it again and realised nothing sounds quite like it still.The track that’s been unfairly slept on this year Earlham Mystics: Truth   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I don’t know if it’s been slept on but it’s a slow burner for sure. It’s a side project of my mate Luke Abbott and it’s beautiful and funky.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Discafric Band: Houiou Djin Nan Zon Aklumon   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I think this is from Benin. So raw and visceral and danceable. It’s from a compilation called African Scream Contest of music from Benin and Togo from the 1970s.The track that got me out of bed this morning Sensory Elements: Explain It   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The most beautifully sexy house track ever. This track reminds me of a very special person. It’s mad how house music from 20-plus years ago sounds completely futuristic in this day and age, I guess at that time people were looking forward a lot more than they are now.The track I wish I’d never played Armand Van Helden: Alienz   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I love this track so much but I played it out once and it bombed, hard. I was playing a bunch of speed garage stuff, which usually goes down well, but I think this tune was a bit too wacky. I love Armand, though.The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding Ian Dury and the Blockheads: Reasons To Be Cheerful, Part 3   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Everyone loves this.The track I’d play at my funeral Aphex Twin: SAW2 CD1 TRK3   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Literally the most gorgeous piece of music ever made. It’s ridiculously simple – obviously, with it being a very minimalist ambient piece, but the chords are almost banal, yet somehow it comes across as effortlessly magical.Nathan Fake plays ICA, SW1, 7 April