Were you a diehard Jane Austen fan before you took on Pride and Prejudice?I read it for the first time when I was 16 and that was the first of her novels that I’d read. I’ve come back to it a few times and I loved the BBC miniseries. I would say that, before I took this on, I was an Austen fan but not a Jane-ite; at that point in my life, I had never bought an empire-waist dress, which I have since, by the way. I rented a dress and made my sister take some pictures of me in case they might come in handy.What most attracted you to this project of bringing Austen into the modern world?What I admire in her books is that she writes great dialogue, she creates vivid characters, she is unparalleled at creating romantic tension and she is very funny. But it’s a completely different thing to enjoy Pride and Prejudice as a consumer and then to create your own version of it.I wasn’t only luxuriating in being a fan, I was also analysing the structure, reverse-engineering certain scenes to figure out what she had done. So it is a different approach and that allowed me to enjoy it, or respect it, in a different way.What was the biggest challenge in making the book’s themes relevant to contemporary readers?I think a lot of the themes are timeless: will I find someone to love? Is my future secure? What is my relationship to my own family? Obviously I made Jane and Lizzie much older – I made them almost 40. I think the pressure to marry manifests itself differently, but there is still pressure there.Curtis Sittenfeld: 'American Wife is the opposite of satire' Was it depressing to find how readily a 19th-century novel about women negotiating marriage could be adapted to the 21st century – to think that perhaps our attitudes haven’t changed much?There’s an underlying message in Eligible that in the present day there are many choices a woman can make about her own life. It’s not that you can only marry a man and have children and live happily ever after. The pressure still exists to conform to a very narrow version of happiness, but it’s symbolic rather than literal, so your wellbeing doesn’t hinge on your marrying a rich man.By the end of the book, all the Bennet sisters have found their own version of happiness and that was deliberate on my part. Mrs Bennet holds on to a very antiquated version of how life should be lived, [one] that I don’t think the book itself holds to.Your novels are steeped in mischievous social observation. Was trying to replicate Austen’s comic voice daunting?From the outset, I was very clear in my mind that I’m not trying to improve on Pride and Prejudice. Eligible is supposed to be fun, it’s an act of admiration. I originally thought I wouldn’t try to mimic the language at all, because that would be like me trying to speak in a British accent, which would be horrifying for everyone. But as I wrote, it was almost like the force of Austen’s language was irresistible, so I found myself using Austenesque words like “besmirch”; I think at the same time her humour also crept into the tone.I don’t think I ever try to be funny in fiction. If you depict things realistically, real life is often awkwardly or inappropriately funny. All this stuff will bubble up if I think about plot and trying to be faithful to the way people really behave.The novel in Austen’s day was seen as a particularly female form. Do you feel there is still less literary acclaim for books that anatomise the lives of women?Oh yes, I think that’s a given. I feel lucky that I’ve been able to have a career and write the books I want. Sometimes my books are taken seriously – whatever that means – and sometimes they’re not. But really I’d rather have them sell, if I had to choose.Eligible is published by HarperCollins (£14.99). Click here to order it for £10.39