The Royal Court is much more than a theatre. It has been, during the 60-year-long tenure of the English Stage Company, both a battleground and a beacon. I only fully grasped its symbolic power when I was out of the country. In 1984 I was attending the annual new play festival in Louisville, Kentucky, when word came through that the Arts Council was considering withdrawing the Court’s funding on the grounds that its commitment to new work had been overtaken by other theatres. The international theatre folk hastily drew up angry petitions protesting at the Arts Council’s stupidity.As one delegate said to me, “there’s hardly a new writing theatre anywhere in the world that doesn’t owe its existence to the Royal Court”. The Court has that effect on people: whatever its occasional lapses, it inspires a devoted loyalty. And, although I’ve had run-ins with various directors, that is certainly true in my case.  They took me on as a script-reader but said I wrote too much like a critic I was recently accused of a sentimental attachment to Look Back in Anger but, apart from the rather more crucial fact that it spurred a whole generation of dramatists into action, it shaped my own life. I’ve recorded before how, when I eventually got to see it as a schoolboy in 1957, I stood on the steps of the Court as people came out of the first-house performance on a Saturday night studying their faces to see if they had been changed by the experience: naive but true. When I came to live in London in the autumn of 1964, I also persuaded the Court’s literary manager, Tom Osborn, to take me on as a script reader. After I’d filed several reports, Tom said that George Devine felt I wrote too much like a critic. My services, I gathered, were no longer required. But, if the Court has always been a beacon of hope, it was, especially in the early years, a blood-stained battlefield in which critics were the principal enemy. In 1970 Lindsay Anderson took the extreme step of trying to ban the Spectator’s critic, Hilary Spurling, on the grounds that her reviews were not “helpful”; in this case the Arts Council, to its credit, stepped in and Anderson humiliatingly climbed down. In 1976 there was also a comic fracas between David Storey and the critics. Angered by the response to his play Mother’s Day, Storey lay in wait for us on our next visit and proceeded to remonstrate. I was singled out for a hearty cuff round the ears, which was reported in the press as if I’d been savagely felled by a blow from Muhammad Ali.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Rylance and Mackenzie Crook in Jerusalem (2009). Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianI still respect Storey for his passionate defence of his play. The Court, however, was like that in those days. There was a sense, under the successive direction of Devine, William Gaskill, Anderson and Anthony Page, that they were carrying on a military campaign against the theatrical philistines and that you were either with them or against them. That shouldn’t, however, disguise their achievements. Their dedication to the work of Osborne, Arden, Arnold Wesker and Edward Bond has been well documented. Less noticed was their early support of women writers such as Ann Jellicoe, Doris Lessing and Caryl Churchill. The Court also broke through the idea that British theatre was an exclusive white man’s club: one of the best of its early plays was Barry Reckord’s Skyvers (1963), dealing with life in a tough London comprehensive, and it introduced Wole Soyinka to London audiences with The Lion and the Jewel in 1966.If the Court was a battlefield in its first quarter-century, it was for several reasons: it was an idealistic cause run by combative directors who often had to contend with fickle audiences and uncomprehending critics. I sensed a change of mood, however, in the years from 1979 to 1993 when Max Stafford-Clark ran the theatre. He had numerous battles to fight. He had to deal with an unsympathetic Arts Council chaired by a Thatcherite appointee in William Rees-Mogg.  Max Stafford-Clark asked us if sponsorship by a tobacco company was acceptable Money was always tight. He also made mistakes, such as the last-minute cancellation of Jim Allen’s Perdition in 1987, under pressure from his board, because of the play’s alleged antisemitism. But Stafford-Clark’s approach to critics was much more emollient than that of his predecessors. He initiated an annual Christmas lunch in which the assembled hacks would be invited to play games, amounting to moral tests, such as deciding whether a hard-pressed theatre should accept vital sponsorship from tobacco companies. But Stafford-Clark did much more than keep the show on the road in straitened times. He actively encouraged women dramatists, so that in 1989 the Court presented an unbroken run of plays by Timberlake Wertenbaker (Our Country’s Good), Caryl Churchill (Ice Cream), Charlotte Keatley (My Mother Said I Never Should) and Winsome Pinnock (A Hero’s Welcome and A Rock in Water), together with a reading of Clare McIntyre’s My Heart’s a Suitcase. As a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, Stafford-Clark also had a partiality for Irish dramatists, whether of the past like George Farquhar or of the present like Brian Friel, Thomas Kilroy and Anne Devlin. Stafford-Clark, like Othello, did the state some service; it’s astonishing that his achievements have never been officially recognised.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Posh (2010). Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianSince Stafford-Clark’s departure, the Court has undergone massive changes: for a start, the building itself has had a radical refurbishment. But, rather than chalking up the hits, and occasional misses, of successive directors such as Stephen Daldry, Ian Rickson, Dominic Cooke and now Vicky Featherstone, I would pick out one or two salient factors of the last quarter-century. One is the Court’s progressive internationalism. This is very much the brainchild of Elyse Dodgson, who began running international workshops in 1989. In practice, that meant she’d get dramatists from all over the world to come to the Court each summer and put them through an intensive programme of theatregoing, lectures and playwriting. She also took Court dramatists around the world to offer practical advice. As part of the two-way traffic, the Court has staged plays by the German Marius von Mayenburg, the Russian Presnyakov brothers and the Spanish Juan Mayorga, among a host of others, that are the direct fruit of Dodgson’s determination.I’d also argue that the Court has lost none of its power to shock and disturb. The most famous example remains Sarah Kane’s Blasted, which hit us all amidships in 1995 and left many of us reeling at its visceral horrors and failing to grasp its moral purpose. My own blindness over Blasted did not stop me reacting with similar horror in 2014 to Jennifer Haley’s The Nether, with its vision of a digitalised paedophile fantasy world; my accusation of sensationalism was, however, vigorously rebutted by the play’s director, Jeremy Herrin. It was quite like the old days, except possibly more polite.The Royal Court at 60: look back in wonder All this, I suppose, raises the question of what the Court stands for in today’s world, where the competition for new work is fiercer and more intense than it’s ever been. At a time when other theatres, such as the Young Vic, the Almeida and even Rufus Norris’s National, seem very much director-driven, I would say the Court still puts the dramatist at the centre of the theatrical event. It also strikes me as defiantly internationalist in tone and open to experiments with form, as proved by work as various as Stephen Emmott’s Ten Billion, a dramatised lecture on population explosion, or Caryl Churchill’s Escaped Alone, with its riveting mixture of the domestic and the apocalyptic. Over 60 years I’ve had a long love affair with the Court; and, as with all love affairs, there have been occasional rows and break-ups. But it remains for me London’s most indispensable theatre because of its tenacious and single-minded belief that, whatever the interpretative skills of the director, designer, actor or sound engineer, in the beginning, and irreplaceably, is the dramatist’s word.Ten great Royal Court plays      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laurence Olivier in The Entertainer. Photograph: Hulton-Deutsch Collection/CORBIS1. The Entertainer (1957) Not only John Osborne’s best play, using the dying music hall as a metaphor for a declining Britain, Olivier’s presence also encouraged other stars to ally their talents to new writers.2. The DH Lawrence Trilogy (1968)Peter Gill’s staging of A Collier’s Friday Night, The Widowing of Mrs Holroyd and The Daughter-in-Law restored Lawrence to his rightful place at the centre of modern English drama.3. Bingo (1974) Edward Bond’s Saved in 1965 caused more noise but this is a much finer play. In its portrait of Shakespeare wrestling with his incapacity for meaningful action, it raised profound questions about the political impotence of even the greatest artist.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lindsay Duncan and Gwen Taylor in Top Girls. Photograph: Donald Cooper/Donald Cooper/Photostage4. Top Girls (1982)Caryl Churchill’s play nailed the success ethos of the Thatcherite culture and asked whether feminism can ever truly advance without social justice. The supreme achievement of the Stafford-Clark era.5. Our Country’s Good (1988)A modern classic in which Timberlake Wertenbaker used Thomas Keneally’s story of a group of convicts rehearsing The Recruiting Officer to assert the power of drama at a time when theatre itself was under attack.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kate Ashfield and Pip Donaghy in Blasted. Photograph: Ivan Kyncl/ArenaPAL6. Blasted (1995)We mostly failed to get it the first time round but Sarah Kane’s tough, troubling play both transports the violence of the Balkan civic wars to a British setting and offers a surprising tribute to stoical endurance.7. Via Dolorosa (1998)The dramatist as reporter: an astonishing tour de force by David Hare in which he recounted his own experiences in Israel and Palestine.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lennie James and Marcel McCalla in Fallout. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian8. Fallout (2003)Roy Williams is one of the most distinctive voices around. With sharp ears and keen wit, he showed how urban kids discover themselves through street culture.9. Jerusalem (2009)Mark Rylance’s performance still burns into the memory. But Jez Butterworth’s play was not just a star vehicle but a richly ambivalent affair about a charismatic spellbinder who was also a tragic anachronism.10. Posh (2010) Laura Wade’s play offered a richly funny satire on a brattish, Bullingdon-style Oxford dining club. At a deeper level, it provided a shocking reminder of the way power in Britain is vested in a self-perpetuating elite.