Henrietta Fourmile Marrie stands at the podium, a diminutive figure at a lower corner of the cavernous stage.The white invaders fashioned a copper breastplate for her great-grandfather, Ye-I-Nie, which, in acknowledgment of his reputation as a peacemaker, named him “King of Cairns”. And even though he long ago passed away, there he is today, Ye-I-Nie, wearing his breastplate and head dress, his skin marked with the tribal ligatures of Yidindji, as he looks out across his great-granddaughter’s left shoulder and into the eyes of a transfixed audience. In two weeks time that spirit will be gone again. And I feel that when I walk past him – it is so heavyHenrietta Fourmile Marrie His gaze is steel. Just like Marrie’s resolve to deliver the message that she has brought to speak today to this international conference about the way museums deal with Indigenous cultural property that has ended up – through circumstances violent, ambiguous or amicable – in the vaults of international collecting institutions. The conference comes in the closing weeks of Encounters, a controversial four-month exhibition at the National Museum of Australia. Based on loans from the British Museum’s 6,000-plus-item Indigenous Australian collection, Encounters has, variously, caused significant pain, division, conflicting emotion and anger in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities, wonderment among visitors and, importantly, new discussion about the innate, enduring power imbalance between first peoples and the cultural institutions that “own” their things.The giant image of Marrie’s great grandfather is on the screen behind her. His very essence, his spirit, is, meanwhile, also just a few hundred metres away, in the Encounters exhibition, from where it will soon be whisked back to the British Museum, Great Russell Street, London. Marrie’s membership of the National Museum’s Indigenous reference group does not temper her public criticism that many Australian and international collecting institutions holding artefacts, photographs and research on Australian first peoples symbolise dispossession.She speaks softly. People in the national museum’s Visions Theatre lean forward in their seats to listen. Some gasp at what she says. Some weep.Battle for bark art: Indigenous leaders hail breakthrough in talks with British Museum “The picture you see there – my grandfather. And the necklace and the headgear ... which he wears and the shields which are also beside him in the exhibition – these are the spiritual connection that I have,” she says. “These are my connection to my great-grandfather. We don’t hold collections of them and nor do they stay here – it goes back to the British Museum.”Her voice oscillates and thins. But she retains composure and continues to speak confidently, with obvious genuine emotion.“It is with a heavy heart that I really stand here today and when I walk through that corridor and have a look at the many items which have been brought here, and particularly when I stand in front of the section of the Yidindji people and see my grandfather’s emblems right there in front of me and the strong spiritual connection which I have with that ... and knowing that in a few weeks’ time they will be gone. It came this far, his spirit ... the sweat that he made ... [is] within those items, that spirit had returned home ... for short while and in two weeks time that spirit will be gone again. And I feel that when I walk past him – it is so heavy ... we will miss him, again.”Marrie, who was born at the Yarrabah mission to which most Yidindji were forcibly removed in the 20th century, wants her great grandfather’s possessions permanently returned to his people in Cairns – “Gimuy”. But the British Museum, bound, it claims, by strict governing legislation, is disinclined to return anything.There is also the matter of Australia’s 2013 Protection of Cultural Objects on Loan Act, which shields from seizure while in Australia precious things on loan from overseas. The law came about partly to prevent a repeat of an incident in 2004 when Gary Murray, an elder of the Dja Dja Wurrung people of north-east Victoria, seized three bark artefacts on loan to the then Melbourne Museum from the British Museum.Scottish settler John Hunter Kerr acquired them in the 1850s, by some accounts in circumstance of amity, by others, not. They were exhibited in Bendigo, Melbourne and at the 1855 Paris Exposition. After the exposition the barks (a shield, emu carving and a scene the British Museum claims depicts a kangaroo hunt but which Murray insists shows a tribesman spearing a trooper) were lost in transit before being acquired by Kew Gardens. The British Museum acquired two of the barks in 1866 ... and loaned them to the Melbourne Museum 138 years later. After a protracted court case the barks eventually returned to the British Museum.  What people want is ... for the museum to bring itself to themJohn Carty While the 2013 Australian legislation has not (yet) faced high court challenge, and, while no Indigenous community has attempted to seize anything from Encounters (even though many want items back) the exhibition may not have proceeded without the protective law.Some Indigenous people have welcomed the exhibition for the opportunity it offers them to see their precious objects. But for many, simply returning the pieces briefly to a part of Australia where they remain as inaccessible as London, means nothing. Returning to this country is not the same at return to country.As John Carty, head of anthropology at the South Australian Museum, said at the NEWENCOUNTERS conference: “Bringing objects back to Canberra is, for the majority of Aboriginal people who live in Australia and never come to Canberra, not a high priority. What people want is ... for the museum to bring itself to them ... there is a conceptual and political challenge here in the growing imperative for the decentering of museums, in this demand for museums to be unhinged from the bricks and mortar or object-focused model. “‘Country’, and its centrality to the meanings and politics of Aboriginal peoples and cultures in Australia, challenges the narrative logic of exhibition-making ... the primacy of country also brings into question the logic of exhibitions anchored to the displays of objects – it offers an evolutionary impetus to the ways in which we continue to rethink the museum.”By logical extension, as Carty pointed out, many Indigenous people see “country” as a museum and the bricks and mortar type – be it the British Museum, the Museum of South Australia or the National Museum of Australia – are constructs that can not easily serve the best interests of Indigenous people.Which brings us back to the objects of Marrie’s great-grandfather and to two of the same Dja Dja Wurrung barks that caused such controversy in 2004, which are, for the moment at least until they’re returned to London, very much anchored into the displays of Encounters.Preservation or plunder? The battle over the British Museum’s Indigenous Australian show In her speech to the conference, Marrie referenced some 160,000 items of Indigenous cultural property – excluding photographs, language recordings, genealogies and oral histories – in major Australian museums.“Although the whole philosophy of museums has changed there still remains profound institutional impediment ... for us as Aboriginal people and that irrespective of the efforts and good intentions of museum staff, central museums will always inadequately serve us. Under these circumstances it is not difficult to see why museums have become for us symbols of dispossession and in this case the dispossession of our heritage. Museum anthropologists have become the gatekeepers, the ones effectively holding the keys to our cultural properties and resources and the ones who have first use of them,” she said.“I and most Aboriginal people acknowledge that if it were not for museums and other such institutions even less of our cultural property would exist in Australia today. For that we are grateful but the fact remains that this property was collected when Aboriginal people were under extreme duress with governments and missions committed to the methodic and systematic destruction of our cultures and our traditions under extreme colonial policies. “But the historical moment has changed. Today we are supposed to be enjoying an era of self-determination, of cultural reconstruction and it is therefore up to government in conjunction with Aboriginal people to make the necessary political decision to set up the appropriate structures to pass legislation which will see the return of our cultural property to Aboriginal ownership and control.”‘Why were we never told that these things existed?’The National Museum of Australia is an architecturally distinctive, multiple-coloured building on the northern bank of Lake Burley Griffin – a gentle rise that remains a sacred corroboree ground for the Ngambri (Canberra) people. The custodianship of the Ngambri, is, like so much to do with Indigenous Australia, hotly contested. This can be partly traced back to the faulty research by a white expert – Norman Tindale, a pre-eminent SA Museum anthropologist who mapped the Indigenous tribes in the early 20th century.Encounters exhibition: a stunning but troubling collection of colonial plunder Tindale omitted the Walgalu-speaking Ngurmal and Ngambri – the predominant people of the Limestone Plains upon which Canberra is imposed – from his map. Those of the Ngunnawal language group were, the whitefellas then decided, the custodians of the Limestone Plains.Tensions between Ngambri and Ngunnawal remain over custodianship; who should welcome visitors to country? The Australian Capital Territory government acknowledges it as “Ngunnawal Country”. Federal governments have varied. Julia Gillard used Ngambri elder Shane Mortimer for some welcomes. Kevin Rudd used Ngunnawal elders. Malcolm Turnbull acknowledges the Ngunnawal. Government departments vary in their preferences. It is a mess.Judiciously, most speakers at the conference acknowledge the Ngambri and the Ngunnawal, as does the museum.That, at least, is part of Tindale’s legacy in Canberra. (As Marrie pointed out, Tindale photographed thousands of Aboriginal people – including her ancestors – in Yarrabah. As a younger woman she accidentally discovered the photos – the subject of enormous scholarship by students and anthropologists – in the SA Museum.She recounted: “It was like having them old people back home and then ... the anger and frustration about why these things are kept so far away out of our reach ... why were we never told that these things existed?”The photographs, she said, formed part of Tindale’s research that would “clear the way for government to implement policies to biologically assimilate Aboriginal people into the European population’ – to breed us out of existence”. There is not one generic response that fits the needs of all and even within communities opinions may differGaye Sculthorpe “The assimilation policy of the 1950s was not only about cultural absorption. It was also about biological absorption – a policy of genocide.”Gaye Sculthorpe, an Indigenous Tasmanian who heads the British Museum’s Oceania section – which includes the Indigenous Australian section – spoke of the “perspective from London” about Encounters and the renewed debate about the Dja Dja Wurrung barks it has sparked. Most of the journalism about the issue had, she said, “with some notable exceptions ... come from journalists who have generally only spoken to a few Aboriginal people about these issues”.Sculthorpe, a world-respected museum curator and former member of Australia’s National Native Title Tribunal, said: “Interestingly, at least from the perspective of London – though perhaps I’ve missed it – there has been very little comment [sought] from Australian museum professionals or policy makers who can contribute to a more informed debate about issues of current government policy and legislation.”Of the controversial 2013 Protection of Cultural Objects on Loan Act, she said: “The act was introduced to encourage foreign institutions who hold objects in their collections to consider lending those to Australian institutions for temporary public exhibitions ... thereby providing an opportunity for members of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities to see and connect with objects from their cultural heritage that may not otherwise be lent to Australian institutions. The act does not apply to certain types of objects such as human remains, bark and log coffins, secret/sacred material ... or scarred trees.”Such items, she said, “would not be protected under this legislation and hence less likely to be lent to Australia”.While the British Museum was bound by its governing legislation, she said it nonetheless lent extensively. The museum is now in memorandum of understanding negotiations about returning, under loan, the Dja Dja Wurrung barks to custodians. It is negotiating similarly with other Indigenous Australian communities.“Whatever one thinks about where objects belong and setting aside the question of which particular objects and to whom and to where, the British Museum trustees are bound by their governing legislation,” she said. “As with the legislation governing the National Museum of Australia and state museums here, the legislation gives little opportunity for objects to permanently leave the collection. However having regard to certain criteria the museum is able to lend certain objects and does so extensively.“In this way the museum’s trustees seek to promote access to the collection as widely as possible and increase the number of people who can appreciate the objects in the collection across the world. Given these legislative and policy parameters that in some cases might be seen to restrict opportunities ... one of the possibilities and potential for Australian Indigenous communities is to engage with collections in the UK, and indeed other museums abroad, to locate relevant objects and information and potentially see them in Australia.” The analogy of rape as it is applied to what has happened to our cultural heritage is not far-fetchedHenrietta Fourmile Marrie She said a “fundamental next step” was further research and documentation “to locate the dispersed collections of different Indigenous groups across Australia”.“The media has noted that there are some 6,000 objects from Indigenous Australians in the British Museum and made many assumptions about how they were acquired. It is however worth noting that apart from the British Museum, the Pitt Rivers Museum has about 16,000 objects and the Cambridge Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology had ... over three and half thousand plus many more photographs.”Sculthorpe emphasised that Indigenous attitudes and approaches to the return of cultural property varied significantly.“Thus there is not one generic response that fits the needs of all and even within communities opinions may differ. Having some experience in the field of mediation through my work in native title I would suggest that perhaps there are some processes and perspectives used in the mediation arena that could be used ... [by] museums in dealing with these issues. Part of mediation practice is to bring parties together face-to-face to discuss issues, to be respectful of all involved and to encourage parties to consider their underlying interests. Then by considering various options and alternatives a space can be created whereby some common creative solutions can emerge.”“Using such a process, experience generally shows that while parties often start with a fixed position – it could be ownership or return – by more precisely identifying the interests of each party and collaboratively seeking solutions for mutual gain, more productive relationships and outcomes will result. One thing museums and Indigenous peoples often do have in common is a desire to build understandings and relationships. As a curator I look forward to continuing discussions with the Dja Dja Wurrung people ... and other communities who have interests in objects in the British Museum’s collections.”Gary Murray – who has been in discussions with Sculthorpe and the British Museum about returning the Dja Dja Wuerrung barks to country, had been due to appear at the national museum conference. So, too, was Gary Foley – eminent Indigenous activist, artists and academic historian. They withdrew late.Foley, who was instrumental with Murray in the seizure of the barks in Victoria 2004, withdrew because he remains “deeply emotionally distressed” with the British Museum because of what happened 12 years ago and also because of what he has described as the British Museum’s “ongoing deception” regarding repatriation. Richard West, the chief executive of the Autry Museum of the American West and founding director of the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian, said in the past decade both museums had returned tens of thousands of objects to contemporary native communities in the US and other parts of the Americas. Enduring controversy: BP sponsorship ignites new row over British Museum's Indigenous exhibition “In the early days I would occasionally receive a letter decrying my purported decimation, as the director of the NMAI, of the native collection over which I presided,” he said. “My response was simple, and it ran along these lines. First I am required to abide by federal laws with which, by the way, I happen to agree. Second the NMAI’s collections originally consisted of almost 1,000,000 objects, and we have to date repatriated 30,000 of them which leaves us with 970,000 – I think we will be able to remain in business as a museum.“In addition, as direct collateral of repatriation, both the NMAI and the Autry learned much more about their native collections.”Which goes to illustrate a number of things. Not least of which is that it is possible to have governing laws – or to amend existing restrictive ones – that facilitate repatriation and permanent return of numerous objects.The last word should belong to Henrietta Fourmile Marrie who closed her speech with a quote from the late Kevin Gilbert, the Wiradjuri activist, writer and artist. “I believe that our cultural heritage is ours to share on our terms – our gift to humanity and not for others to take under the circumstances that we have endured and the analogy of rape as it is applied to what has happened to our cultural heritage is not far-fetched,” she said.