If predictions are correct about verse being a dying art, those of us who persist in writing it would probably be wise to forget altogether about getting published, and just send our latest poem to each other as an email. Each of us would have a list of names, not all of them fools. It would be a low-profile solution, however, and not many poets would get as famous as Seamus Heaney, who, in Bellaghy, is about to have a whole memorial building opened in his honour, with a coffee bar. Richly deserved, too. And on a suitable scale: he was a giant.Clive James: adventures in box sets, from The West Wing to Weeds After a tough week, I have been contemplating my own departure for the beyond. Not that I have been much more unwell than usual, but my professional circumstances have been exhausting. My new little book Play All is about television box sets, not poetry, so there has been no shortage of television people arriving on my doorstep to talk to me about it. Unfortunately, not all of them have read it.But I long ago learned what to do in those circumstances. You give a precis of your book’s best bits while thanking your dazed interlocutor for finding time to fit this visit into his hurtling schedule of probing the secrets of world leaders. Alas, there are interviewers a notch below the ones who haven’t read your opinions on box sets. There are interviewers who have never seen a box set.One of these got into my house at the beginning of the week. A confident soul, he didn’t shyly confess that he knew nothing about the subject we were scheduled to talk about: he announced it proudly. I should have instructed my granddaughter’s dog to chase the grinning dolt into the street, but he was from Newsnight – the dolt, not the dog – so I thought there was a level of stupidity below which we could not sink. Boy, was I wrong, and is that bunch ever missing Jeremy Paxman.Clive James: 'I won't get to Barry Humphries' new show, but I can tell he’s in total command' When the show went to air, the bit devoted to me and the box sets was the complete travesty, down to and including the clueless young linkperson reminding the audience of the last time my name had been in the tabloids. Actually I doubt if anyone was watching, and even my scornful family was ready to admit that I might have had some reason to think that Newsnight was a serious programme. Just don’t say yes again.A week has gone by and I’ve said nothing, except to an Irish interviewer who I know and trust. He’ll be over here next week. I feel foolish telling a respectable television journalist that he can’t darken my door unless he’s seen Game Of Thrones, but that’s show business.