Terence Davies has always made films melancholically embedded in the past, yet has never quite fitted the heritage cinema mould: even when adapting Wharton and Rattigan, his period pieces had an elegiac poetry all their own. Newly prolific of late – A Quiet Passion, his dismayingly stodgy Emily Dickinson biopic, recently played Berlin – he seems to have stiffened. Sunset Song (Metrodome, 15), a grandly pictorial adaptation of Lewis Grassic Gibbon’s Scots farmland saga, is awash with enough magic-hour cornfield vistas to make his similarly stately namesake, Malick, golden-green with envy. For a director associated principally with delicate, darkened interiority, this is a fully composed foray into epic form. Peppery and unbending as ever, Lily Tomlin could animate any old dreck Yet for all its rolling widescreen skies, there’s precious little air in this tale of a stout-hearted farm lass (a hard-labouring Agyness Deyn), working the land through the ravages of paternal abuse, marital disintegration and the first world war. Every tragedy lands with stolid dramatic gravity, the characters defined less by their human urges and foibles than by the imposing misery of their circumstances.There’s more life to be found in Grandma (Sony, 15), which is to say that Lily Tomlin is in it. Peppery and unbending as ever, Tomlin could animate any old dreck – and in the early stages of Paul Weitz’s swiftly sketched character comedy, which introduce acidic lesbian poet Elle (Tomlin) as a strident grouch-by-numbers, it seems she may have to. But as the lean, day-spanning story takes shape, with Elle coming to the aid of a teenage granddaughter (Julia Garner) in need of an abortion, it emerges as a lower-key study of shifting generational rebellion – giving human grounding to Tomlin’s wiliness, even as it invaluably spikes proceedings.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for Grandma, starring Lily Tomlin.“Human grounding” is not a required concern of Guy Maddin’s beautifully batty fantasia The Forbidden Room (Soda, 12), though perhaps a big screen is. A collage of fever-dream dioramas and skits involving wolfmen, vampires, submarines and a sentient, tapioca-craving volcano, it’s altogether better seen than described – though while Maddin’s crazy-quilt vision proved intoxicatingly immersive in the dark of the cinema, living-room viewing makes it seem less a portal to another dimension than a dazzlingly realised (in bubbling, two-strip Technicolor, no less) curiosity. Still, I’m glad it’s with us.The title’s the most arresting thing about Kill Your Friends (Studiocanal, 18), an adaptation of John Niven’s Britpop-era music-biz satire that, even accounting for its 90s setting, has a decidedly dated conception of “edginess”. The lofty F Scott Fitzgerald allusion in the title of Show Me a Hero (Warner, 15), on the other hand, is mostly justified by Paul Haggis and David Simon’s absorbing, conscientious six-part miniseries, starring the reliably riveting Oscar Isaac as Nick Wasicsko, the young Yonkers mayor who fought for desegregated housing in his city. It’s meaty social tragedy with a hint of Sidney Lumet in its HBO house style.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Riveting’: Oscar Isaac with Carla Quevedo in the HBO miniseries Show Me a Hero. Photograph: HBOOn recently revisiting the BFI Player, I stumbled upon a welcome section I hadn’t seen before. The self-explanatory Unavailable on DVD delivers on its promise of obscurity: I have yet to see most of the included titles, but was pleased to notice a flavourful South African provocation in the murk. Initially banned in its homeland in 2013, Jahmil XT Qubeka’s Of Good Report tells of a torrid township student-teacher relationship that goes wildly, and most violently, awry. Uneven but bristling with sexual and social aggravation, it’s a lively landmark in the country’s still nascent tradition of black cinema.