Lisa McInerney, the self-styled “Sweary Lady” who wrote an award-winning blog about working-class life on a Galway council estate, has been shortlisted for the £30,000 Baileys women’s prize for fiction for her debut novel, The Glorious Heresies.The Glorious Heresies by Lisa McInerney review – the Sweary Lady is on bellicose form Set on the fringes of society in post-crash Ireland, The Glorious Heresies features drug dealers, dysfunctional families and a Cork woman who accidentally brains someone with a religious icon. “A tall man, a skinny rake, another string of piss, now departed. She hadn’t gotten a look at his face before she flaked him with the Holy Stone and she couldn’t bring herself to turn him over,” writes the Irish author, who was called “the most talented writer at work today in Ireland” by the Irish Times thanks to her blog, Arse End of Ireland.McInerney was picked for the final six in the Baileys prize, which goes to the best novel of the year written by a woman in English, alongside one of Irish writing’s biggest names, the Booker winner Anne Enright. Ireland’s fiction laureate was selected for The Green Road, in which Rosaleen Madigan’s children return to the west of Ireland when she announces plans to sell their home.McInerney called the shortlisting for the Baileys, which has previously been won by major names from Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie to Eimear McBride, “an amazing leg up”. “I’d only written one short story before this – it was commissioned by [Impac award-winning writer] Kevin Barry, who had stumbled across my blog and asked for a short story. I hadn’t written one before but you don’t say no to Kevin Barry so I threw it together and he liked it,” she said.She described her blog, which she began in 2006 and wrote under the online persona Sweary Lady, as “a gonzo version of working-class Ireland”. She wrote it while living on a council estate in rural Ireland, bringing up her child and working as a receptionist. “It showed a side of life that hadn’t been focused on in the mainstream media,” she said, describing the blogging medium as “very democratic ... there’s no buffer between you and the audience”.“But I always wanted to write fiction,” she said. “So when my story was published, my agent said, ‘You have to write the novel you’ve been banging on about.’ I had this image of a middle-aged lady walking down the street, who’d done something terrible. The characters were all there.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nomination … Anne Enright. Photograph: Eamonn McCabe for the GuardianMcInerney is one of three debut novelists shortlisted for the Baileys award. British film director and writer Hannah Rothschild makes the cut for her first novel The Improbability of Love, in which Annie McDee finds herself drawn into the London art world after discovering a lost 18th-century masterpiece in a junk shop. Rothschild said that being picked by the Baileys judges had given her the confidence to start writing her second novel. “It says OK, you can take yourself seriously,” she said.Rothschild, who is chair of the National Gallery and has written film scripts for Ridley Scott and Working Title, first started writing the novel that became The Improbability of Love 20 years ago, but said the idea of “a picture that could talk came from way, way back, when I was studying art history”.“It went into a drawer, and I had a dream that one day I would write a novel,” she said. “It was a dream, but I didn’t have the confidence to feel I could do it. It took until I was older to think, just do it, and see what happens ... I wrote it at the weekends, after work, on holiday.”US writer Cynthia Bond was picked for her debut novel, Ruby, in which 30-year-old Ruby Bell returns to her hometown in Texas and is forced to deal with the racism and sexism that darkened her childhood. The shortlist also features her compatriot Hanya Yanagihara’s increasingly dark exploration of the lives of four friends, A Little Life, which had previously been shortlisted for the Booker, and fellow American Elizabeth McKenzie’s The Portable Veblen. “We have writers here who have previously been bloggers – the world of literature does not flow top-down but bottom-upElif Shafak, author and judge Bookmaker William Hill has Enright as favourite to win the award, at 2/1, with Bond and Yanagihara at 4/1, Rothschild at 5/1, McInerney at 6/1 and McKenzie at 7/1.Novelist Elif Shafak, who sits on this year’s judging panel alongside chair Margaret Mountford, the journalists Naga Munchetty and Laurie Penny, and the writer and singer Tracey Thorn, said that the mix of debut authors and well-established writers on this year’s shortlist “reflects wider changes in the world of publishing today”.“We have writers here who have previously been bloggers – the world of literature does not flow top-down but bottom-up,” she said. “Everyone has an equal chance ... There are many more ways of taking your story to the world, and it is much more egalitarian and inclusive today.”Baileys women's prize for fiction 2016 longlist – in pictures Shafak said the shortlist also shows more “experimental fiction sitting side by side with conventional literary fiction”. “What matters is if it is a good book which speaks to the heart and mind and changes you,” she said. “So The Glorious Heresies, for example, is very different to The Green Road. They’re both Irish authors, and it is wonderful to see how each writer tackles Irish society and Irish culture in very different ways.”The winner of the Baileys women’s prize for fiction, which was formerly known as the Orange prize, will be announced on 8 June.Baileys prize shortlist 2016The Glorious Heresies by Lisa McInerneyThe Green Road by Anne EnrightThe Improbability of Love by Hannah RothschildA Little Life by Hanya YanigaharaRuby by Cynthia BondThe Portable Veblen by Elizabeth McKenzie