Bill Bryson has warned that readers are “short-changing themselves” if they aren’t reading science books, as he revealed the shortlist for a literary award he called “the Nobel prize of science writing”.Bryson, who is chairing the judging panel for this year’s Royal Society Insight Investment science book prize, said that “science books tend to get pigeonholed”, and that “a lot of people don’t read science books – they’re not interested, or think they have no natural affinity for it”.Readers who avoid these books are missing out, he said. “I did, for years. But when you read science books, you can find first-rate writing, as good as in any field of nonfiction. Books which illustrate things about the world we live in, the history of the universe – all these great questions we have. And that’s important. A lot of people miss out on that – they go to Waterstones and they don’t even go to the science shelves,” said Bryson, who won the Royal Society award himself in 2004, for A Short History of Nearly Everything.This year, Bryson and his fellow judges – the theoretical physicist Dr Clare Burrage, science fiction author Alastair Reynolds, ornithologist and science blogger GrrlScientist and the Science Museum’s director of external affairs Roger Highfield – picked a shortlist of six titles for the £25,000 prize.Tim Birkhead was chosen for his exploration of the bird egg, The Most Perfect Thing, Thomas Levenson for his history of astronomers’ quest to find a non-existent planet in the 19th century, The Hunt for Vulcan, and Jo Marchant for her investigation into the field of mind-body medicine, Cure.The Planet Remade by Oliver Morton, an exploration of geoengineered responses to climate change, also makes the cut, as does Andrea Wulf’s biography of the scientist Alexander von Humboldt, The Invention of Nature. Siddhartha Mukherjee’s The Gene, looking at the history and future of genetics, completes the line-up.“It was genuinely tough to get to this shortlist – there were so many good books published this year. I feel the Royal Society prize is an especially important one. It’s the Nobel prize of science writing and we really wanted to be especially careful with getting the best possible list,” said Bryson.“For me, it’s easy to like certain books – but a book on particle physics is going to be a challenge for me … And I would never have read a book on bird eggs but when I picked up The Most Perfect Thing, I thought it was brilliant. It’s so wonderful when you come across a book on a subject you’re not naturally drawn to and you’re completely engaged by it.”The bestselling author said the six books “show science writing at its best, lyrical and vivid and thrilling – not to mention as interesting, useful and accessible – as any writing you will find in any genre, and anyone who tells you differently simply cannot claim to be well read”.“Few ideas are more exasperatingly wide of the mark than the belief that science is somehow a thing apart, something that happens in laboratories and classrooms but otherwise doesn’t much intersect with our daily lives,” said Bryson. “So it really cannot be stressed too often: science isn’t separate from our daily lives. It is our daily lives. It explains who we are, how we got here and where we are going. It is innately enchanting.” The £25,000 prize’s winner will be announced on 19 September, with the five shortlisted authors to receive £2,500. The 2016 shortlist:The Most Perfect Thing by Tim Birkhead (Bloomsbury)The Hunt for Vulcan by Thomas Levenson (Head of Zeus)Cure by Jo Marchant (Canongate)The Planet Remade by Oliver Morton (Granta)The Gene by Siddhartha Mukherjee (Bodley Head)The Invention of Nature by Andrea Wulf (John Murray)