There was a dark period in my life when I not only stopped writing, but I was also barely reading. I certainly wasn’t reading anything for pleasure. I was in college at the time, on that cusp of adulthood where it felt uncool to read anything that wasn’t high-brow. The only books my friends were talking about were the ones assigned in school, and I found most of those oppressively boring – a chore to read, let alone discuss outside of class. I resigned myself to the idea that, despite being a voracious reader through my childhood and teen years, I had perhaps hit a plateau. It seemed everyone else my age was always reading a level above me, which made me feel downright illiterate.How Michael Grant's Gone series cured my iPad addiction  I battled this intellectual insecurity by shunning books and turning all of my attention instead to my chosen career path – journalism. At the time, I was working for a local television station, and it seemed we were constantly covering this new book series that was all the rage with kids… You may have heard of Harry Potter? At the time, not a lot of Americans had. The series was just catching on, but it was catching fast, and that meant it was newsworthy. In order to stay on top of the news, I picked up the first book and cracked it open over a cup of java at one of my favorite coffee shops. Hours later, I was still sitting in the same booth, my coffee ice cold, as I reached the end of the book. And I immediately went out and bought the rest of the series. At that point, there were only three books out in the United States. I ploughed through them and then joined the legions of fans who would count down the days until each new release.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Erin Lange: There is magic in the Harry Potter series, but the spell it cast on me was a different kind of magic. In that coffee shop, inside the pages of that first book, was my Eureka moment. In between those releases, I went back and reread many of the books I had enjoyed as a kid – from Judy Blume to RL Stine – and I rediscovered my love of reading. From there, I picked up new releases for teens and found new favourite authors. My book shelves filled up once again, and when I ran out of things to read… I began to write. It only makes sense that my writing reflecting my reading, and I could not be more proud to see my books share shelf space with some of the stories that helped shape who I am – chief among them, the Potter books.Homer's Iliad cast a spell on me  There is magic in the Harry Potter series, but the spell it cast on me was a different kind of magic. In that coffee shop, inside the pages of that first book, was my Eureka moment. I, like so many adults who fell in love with the series, remembered what it was like to read with a sense of wonder instead of with a critical eye.  I was still a voracious reader. I had simply forgotten what it was I liked to read. If Harry (and one JK Rowling) had not reminded me, I might never have rediscovered my love of reading, and I certainly would not have become a writer.  So many books can influence us or leave a lasting impression. For me, only one could change my life forever.Erin Lange’s latest book, Rebel Bully Geek Pariah, is out now and available from the Guardian Bookshop.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 