Love is in the air at Kielder reservoir in Northumberland, that great source of reassurance during times of potential drought in the north.A pair of ospreys have got together for the fourth time in as many years and settled down for the breeding season at the top of an extremely high coniferous tree.They have a dream of a des res in avian terms, 62,000 hectares (155,000 acres) of wild Forestry Commission land and the vast lake where they can hunt inexhaustible supplies of fish. The male bird has already presented his partner with a trout to mark their return home.This was no trivial matter. Both ospreys over-winter in sub-Saharan Africa and have to make their way back, a journey of more than 5000 miles. Nick Adams, area conservation manager for the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, says: Last year the female was delayed for over a week due to bad weather en route, so we are delighted that the wait has been short this time. The birds have been exemplary parents since 2009, raising a total of seven chicks.We have great hopes of another osprey family being born in Kielder, boosting the re-colonisation of the species to other areas of England.The pair are the first ospreys to breed successfully for 200 years in the north east of England, whose other spectacular bird arrivals include the red kites at Gateshead. The breed is notable for forming a lifelong bond with one partner, but birds have to work at their relationships as energetically as we do. The Forestry Commission says: There is no time to lose in getting reacquainted. Within the space of just five months the birds must breed, incubate eggs, nurture their youngsters, wait for them to fledge and teach them how to hunt on Kielder Water. By the end of August the chicks will be on their own.  Forestry Commission wildlife ranger Adam Fletcher adds a little moss to the ospreys' high rise. Photograph: Forestry CommissionThe site of the nest, and a second one where descendants of the pair produced two of their own chicks last year and are expected back soon, are not being disclosed, but live footage from the main nest will soon be beamed into Kielder Castle Visitor Centre, a Victorian hunting lodge in the middle of the wilderness. Commission rangers are monitoring both nests from a distance, after making the birds' life a little more comfortable by climbing the trees with moss lining before the migrants returned.Ospreys were persecuted to extinction in England in 1847 and in Scotland in 1916 but returned north of the Border in the mid-1950s and were reintroduced to Rutland Water and the Lake District in 2001. The Lake District birds obligingly moved their nest two years ago to a tree where it could be seen more easily from the visitors' hide on Lake Bassenthwaite.You can follow the ospreys online here, sign up for Twitter updates from @KielderOspreys or check out the project's Facebook page here. More information about the Kielder wilderness is here.