Nadiya Hussain, the winner of last year’s Great British Bake Off, says that racist abuse has become an everyday part of her life.Speaking on Sunday’s Desert Island Discs on BBC Radio 4, Hussain said she is astounded at being credited for her positive effect on race relations with the Muslim community as she described the anti-Islamic abuse she still suffers.“It sounds really silly [but] it feels like that’s become a part of my life now– I expect it,” she said. “I expect to be shoved or pushed or verbally abused, because it happens, it’s happened for years.”The 31-year-old said the abuse has made her even more determined to be a role model to her three children and the wider Muslim community.Hussain said: “I love being British and I love living here, this is my home and it always will be regardless of all the other things that define me. This is my home and I want my kids to be proud of that and I don’t want them to grow up with a chip on their shoulder, so I live as positively as I can.” During her 10 years as a stay-at-home mother, Hussain said she “got so bogged down in being the best housewife” that she began losing herself, trapped in a bubble where she only spoke to close family and feared strangers’ judgment.“I couldn’t get on a bus with them [her two eldest children] because I was so afraid of people looking at me, or people thinking I looked horrible, or people judging me and how could she possibly have two children in that space of time?” she said.Hussain also spoke about her own childhood, from happy times living in Bangladesh to the family’s reliance on her grandmother while her parents cared for her two seriously ill siblings in hospital. She said she bought her parents’ first house for them at the age of 19, adding: “I’ve spent my whole life watching my parents sacrifice things for me, so buying a house was nothing.”Among the tracks she chose on the show was Counting Crows’ Accidentally in Love, which is the song that her now husband Abdul played in the background when they began courting each other before tying the knot in an arranged marriage aged 19. She said her husband still serenades her with the song every day.Since her victory in the final of Bake Off, which was the most-watched TV show in 2015 with 15 million viewers, Hussain’s career has skyrocketed. Her first cookbook, Nadiya’s Kitchen, was released in June, she writes a cooking column for the Times, and made the Queen’s 90th birthday cake. She will also present an upcoming two-part BBC series called The Chronicles of Nadiya, which is described as “an exuberant food-inspired journey from Nadiya’s birthplace in Luton to her family village in the north-east of Bangladesh”, as well as judging the new Junior Bake Off. Last week, Hussain told the Times she began wearing a hijab at the age of 14 to cover up her “bad hair more than anything else” because her father “cut it really badly”. Her parents, she said, were not particularly religious and neither her mother nor three sisters wore a hijab when she was growing up.