Devon, which last week laid claim to the literary roots of Dracula, has now been named as part of the inspiration for a classic work of American literature, JD Salinger’s The Catcher in the Rye.A BBC Radio 4 documentary to be broadcast on Thursday will see Mark Hodkinson, who edited a biography of Salinger, travel to Tiverton in Devon, where Salinger spent three months in 1944 with the US military in the build-up to D-Day. The reclusive writer records some of the details of his time in Devon in the short story For Esme – With Love and Squalor, which tells of an American soldier and writer in Devon in 1944 who meets a young girl and her brother.But according to the documentary – JD Salinger, Made in England – his time in Devon also saw Salinger work on developing his most famous creation, teenager Holden Caulfield.'Dracula was not from Exeter,' insists Bram Stoker descendant “Whilst his protagonist is American and his themes are universal, it was very much made in England,” Hodkinson told the Independent. “Salinger later told friends that England changed him and his writing. The slower pace of life, the matter-of-factness of the people and the green landscape brought more reflection to his work.“He announced soon afterwards that he was going to be more ‘sympathetic’ to his characters, including Holden Caulfield … on [whom] he was already working in Devon.”Dr Sarah Graham, a lecturer in American literature at the University of Leicester, accompanied Hodkinson during his research in Devon and agreed with his perspective on Caulfield, saying that Devon would have shown the writer “a rural, quiet world, very different from his hometown of New York”.“He was very much an urban writer – wanted to be published in the New Yorker (and was, for most of his career) – focusing on the lives of young city people, many of them not that pleasant. He was in Devon waiting to be shipped to Europe for the D-Day landings, and he must have been afraid of what was in store (rightly, as it turned out). The contrast between his past in NYC and his future in combat in Europe must have been intensified by this brief period in Devon, in a small traditional town,” said Graham.“I think the fact that Holden in Catcher loathes war and dreams of escaping NYC for a rural life, might well be informed by the Devon experience. And Salinger himself left New York for a very simple life in Cornish, New Hampshire, after the war. In the short story, a traumatised soldier is brought back from the brink of complete breakdown by a letter from a young girl he met in Devon – Esmé – because her love for him shows that the world is not entirely corrupted. I think that the promise of innocence – that it can redeem the ugliness of the modern world – is a key concept for Salinger’s post-war work.”The Radio 4 documentary also recorded 96-year-old Werner Kleeman, a friend of Salinger’s who served with him in Devon. “Salinger liked Devon,” said Kleeman. “Any free time he had was taken up by writing on his portable typewriter.”The Catcher in the Rye would go on to be published seven years after Salinger’s stint in Devon, in 1951.