Khadim Ali remembers the day he started to receive death threats. Anonymous callers would ring the young artist in his hometown of Quetta, Pakistan. “You are the infidel Shia,” they said. “You are the infidel artist.”“It was then I decided to leave Pakistan and find a safer place for myself,” says Ali. “Because of my ethnicity I was a constant target.”In 2009 Ali – who has been collected by the likes of the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Guggenheim – moved to Australia permanently on a distinguished talent visa. His mother and father, exiled Hazaras whose own parents fled bloody persecution in Afghanistan in the 1890s, joined him as refugees in 2012. Their house in Quetta old town had been bombed in a car suicide attack that left them seriously injured, their home destroyed, and 14 dead. “I feel like we have a new life, a better and peaceful life here,” says Ali, 38. “My parents are not concerned about me leaving home in the morning.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Untitled from the Transitions-Evacuation series (2014) by Khadim Ali, who was branded as an ‘infidel artist’ in his hometown in PakistanAli’s artwork is one of many on show in the exhibition Refugees at Sydney’s Casula Powerhouse, which opens this month and runs until September. The 65 pieces from 22 globally renowned artists – all connected by a refugee background – span painting, textiles, sculpture and performance.“Art has the power to move us,” says the curator, Toni Bailey. “I’m hoping that these artists who have big reputations can attract attention, and in doing that we can change misconceptions about refugees and asylum seekers.”New South Wales will resettle half of the 12,000 Syrian refugees the Australian government has pledged to take in. Many will find homes in western Sydney, near Casula Powerhouse – an area in which 40% of the population are born overseas. The show, then, is particularly poignant; a chance to tell “very human stories that come from places of danger and destruction”, says Bailey.Artists include Germans Max Ernst, who escaped arrest by the Gestapo and fled to America with the aid of Peggy Guggenheim, and Frank Auerbach, who was sent to England in 1939 but whose parents perished in the concentration camps. Then there’s Lebanese-born Palestinian Mona Hatoum, who became exiled in London after civil war erupted in Lebanon in 1975; Chinese Ah Xian, who sought asylum in Australia after the Tiananmen Square massacre; and Vietnamese Dinh Q Lê, who emigrated to the US to escape the clutches of the invading Khmer Rouge.Made in response to the drowning of more than 50 asylum seekers after a fishing boat sunk off Christmas Island in 2010, Lê’s contribution of Erasure (Still #1) shows an 18th-century tall ship on a beach, doused in flames. The piece channels his own (more lucky) journey to freedom and is a reminder that Australia is a nation invaded and colonised by “boat people”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Erasure (Still #1) (2011), by Dinh Q Lê Photograph: Dinh Q LêBailey insists that the exhibition is necessary because “there are still people who think it is illegal to seek asylum by boat”. Fearmongering about a flood of immigrants, too, is commonplace. Yet Australia receives less than 1% of the world’s refugees. Meanwhile, more than 90% of people arriving by boat are found to be escaping war and persecution, according to the Asylum Seeker Resource Centre.Most, like the Hazara Afghan refugee Ahmad Ali Jafari, end up in detention centres. In 2013, at the age of 26, Jafari died of a heart attack in Sydney’s infamous Villawood immigration detention centre. Jafari had told the officer in charge he was suffering severe chest pains; rather than help, he said, guards mocked him.The story of Jafari is relayed in a harrowing tribute zine on display in Telling Tales – Excursions in Narrative Form, a major exhibition at the Museum of Contemporary Art on until October. One section is devoted to the Refugee Art Project, founded in 2010 by the artist and academic Safdar Ahmed, which features drawings by refugees and asylum seekers trapped in limbo at Villawood waiting for their applications to be processed.With the dire lack of materials available at the centre, some pieces are done using instant coffee powder mixed in water as a form of paint. Another challenge is visiting restrictions: all volunteers had to sign a contract stipulating not to speak publicly about what they saw in the facility and no video or photography is allowed.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mohammed, Untitled by Mohammed (2013-15), painted with powdered coffee, courtesy of the Refugee Art ProjectAs such, Ahmed’s zine Villawood: Notes From an Immigration Detention Centre is a particularly powerful testament. The comic-book style only serves to reinforce the horror: there are close-ups of teeth gritted, bodies being squatted over by oversized judicial hammers, mouths sewn shut, and a figure dripping in blood, head dropped in despair.“Being in detention felt like mental torture, like a type of slow poisoning,” former Christmas Island and Villawood detainee Murtaza Ali Jafari is quoted as saying in the Refugee Art Project zine #5, published in 2014. “I came to Australia looking for protection but the politicians have kicked me like a soccer ball.”Villawood leads to “dramatic psychological deterioration of people who are kept there indefinitely,” Ahmed says. “To be held for years on end with no knowledge of their final outcome or date of release breaks people mentally, and that is exactly its purpose, in the context of Australia’s logic of deterrence.”Most of the artists in the Refugee Art Project have no prior experience as artists. Still, Ahmed asserts their work contains a “poignancy and force that stems from their need to communicate something about their situation”.Crucially, he wants art to be a way to humanise asylum seekers, so we do not “view them exclusively through the lens of their past suffering”. It is important to reject the “stereotypes of the ‘good’ – therefore deserving – versus the ‘bad’ refugee”, he says.Jinette de Gooijer is trying to do exactly that through a performance artwork held in Melbourne on Sunday. In Crossing Borders – A Slow Walk, 100 people dressed in black will walk to and from the Immigration Museum in an attempt to highlight the perilous movements of refugees. De Gooijer, one of many organisers, hopes that the walk will give “some sense of what it is to cross borders”.Art, as we know, can serve many purposes. For the Casula Powerhouse curator Toni Bailey, it’s a way to spark confronting conversations: “I want to address unjust misconceptions and face up to ugly truths,” she says with force. But an artist like Ali sees his work as something altogether different: a “breathing space. A place where I take refuge.”• Refugees is on at Casula Powerhouse, Sydney until 11 September; Telling Tales – Excursions in Narrative Form is on at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Sydney, until 9 October; In Crossing Borders – A Slow Walk is taking place in Melbourne from 10am on Sunday. Find out more about the Refugee Art Project.