Hello Bros! You’re back! After 25 years!Luke Goss (drums): In a weird way, I’ve always been in Bros. It’s always had a presence and suddenly we had a conversation and it was just: “Let’s go play some fucking music again. Even if there’s one person in the audience.” We had jams, over the years, either at my brother’s place or my place, but when we decided to come back we were in a music store. It was probably the most low-key reunion in popular music history.Matt Goss (singer): I’ve been doing 200 shows a year [in Las Vegas] for the last eight years. I haven’t left the stage since I was 16, but I want to see that hysteria again. Bros were responsible for mania. Our first album, Push (1), sold 7m copies; one in 30 British people had a copy. Our fans are in their late 30s or 40s now, but they’re still absolutely bonkers.Who was or is the most famous Bros fan?Matt: Yoko Ono follows me on Twitter. I’ve written songs with Sharon Stone. I had lunch with Princess Diana. She was so feminine and kind. When those sapphire blue eyes looked at me, I just blushed. I was one of the last people to sing to Muhammad Ali. I went to his house, sat and held his hand and sang These Arms of Mine by Otis Redding. It was just me and him. He was looking into my eyes and holding my hand, really firmly. It was beautiful.Will you be digging the old Bros clobber out again?Matt: We had a uniform: jeans, biker jackets and Doc Martens. I love fashion. I won best-dressed man, but that old 80s look has come right back again.What about the Grolsch bottle tops on your laces? (2)Luke: That was always Matt. I’m not sure I want the mics to pick up the rattling of my Grolsch tops while I’m drumming. Nobody would see ’em anyway. The anonymity of the drummer’s feet!Matt: Sales of Grolsch went up by a third when we did that. If the company want to reach out to us, I’m sure we’d consider wearing them again.Can’t you just buy a couple of bottles from the offy and stick tops on your shoes?Matt: Nah. It would have to be done proper.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Click here to watch Bros’s When Will I Be Famous?Will you dye your hair blond again, like your 80s selves?Luke: I don’t have enough hair! I’ve got a round, shaved head. I look like a peanut.A mate of mine tells this story that at the peak of Brosmania you used to go to a shop across from where he worked. Apparently you used to have the shop closed, turn up in a limo, then come out with armfuls of clobber, chuck it all in the limo and speed off. Is this true?Matt: It is true. We started closing shops after being pinned inside one in Japan by fans: complete Brosmania! It took us five hours to get out.Luke: We used to roll that way. There was a constant entourage of 20 or 30 cars because of fans following us, all day, every day. I never got used to it. I had sticky-out ears until I was 15 or 16, then I had plastic surgery, so I always thought that they were screaming at my brother, or Craig [Logan, bassist] (3). You form a band to play music and suddenly you’re a “pop star”. At 17, I was a deer in headlights. But nothing can prepare you for that kind of hysteria. Fans trying to break car windows was a daily event. In Australia, there were thousands of people at the airport, police escorts. Private jets and screaming girls. It was incredible, fun, goofy, fantastic, but by the time I was getting used to it, it was all over (4).Was it scary after Bros ended? You’d been so huge, then nothing...Luke: Of course. I’d had been married since I was 18 and a stepdaughter and I had to put food on the table, but that’s a great motivation. I meditated every day and went into the movies (5). I was born a drummer. I was hitting pots and pans since I was five. Film was something I had to learn. It’s much more of a team effort.Have you ever pretended to be each other?Matt: We look so different now, we’d never get away with it. My brother’s got an American twang. I say: “Come on mate. That’s not proper, is it?”Luke: Not since we were at school. We used to do lessons for each other, but by the time we were 16, people knew who was who. They used to ask us: “Did you share girlfriends?” We never went that far!You sang I Owe You Nothing, but ended up £500,000 in debt. How does that happen?Matt: We lost more than that. When you’re 17, nobody tells you that while you may be being paid a million for a gig, it’s costing that much to do it. Then you find that you’re also getting billed 20% commission, so are 200 grand in debt. You learn this.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Click here to watch Bros’s I Owe You Nothing.Did you ever fall out?Matt: Absolutely, yes. We’re like Noel and Liam, but more so because we’re twins. We were born on the same day; you go through growing pains as brothers, form a band and then eventually you’re fucking sick and tired of each other. When we lost our mum it was so devastating that we didn’t speak. Then one day we just said: “Enough. If you mess with my brother, you are royally messing with me.” I’m sure, despite everything, Noel and Liam are the same.Luke: With the people you’re closest to, you get a free pass to be a pain in the arse. Any married couple will know that you say something within the course of a relationship and you know you’re not going to break something. Yeah, we’ve had our ups and downs but you don’t want to fight with someone you love.Did you literally fight?Luke: When we were kids, sure … But punching someone in the face when you’re 15 is not the same, is it?Were you more competitive back then?Luke: Well, the competitive element is negated because he’s in music, I’m in film. When we come together we’re in the same bloody band, although 89% of the audience want to look at the singer and a couple of really smart, cool, edgy, naughty girls look at the drummer at the back.Have either of you ever been arrested?Luke: No. In Austria, once, a promoter was trying to do a silly thing and I remember being escorted by two detectives, but that was the only incident. I’m a law-abiding citizen.Do you still speak to Craig?Matt: Very rarely. We had lunch in LA two years back and reminisced, but he enjoys being behind the camera now.Do Bros keep up with modern music?Matt: I was extremely influenced by Stevie Wonder, the Rolling Stones, Cream, Bob Dylan. But now, because I’m making a commercial solo album, I’m only listening to Top 40 American radio: everything from the Chainsmokers to the Weeknd.Will there be another Bros album?Matt: I dunno. You’ve got to walk before you can crawl. It’s hard enough to get on stage again.What were the “logistical circumstances” that led you to cancel much of the tour that had been dubbed ‘the biggest reunion in pop history’? (6)Matt: We’re not children any more. I can’t go into details, but someone else made a decision that we didn’t approve and to play those gigs would have put the band in jeopardy. So we made a very tough decision to do what we originally intended and play the 02, which is sold out. We’re still playing two of the biggest indoor arenas in Europe. After 25 years, it’s not bad, is it? When those lights go down, everyone’s gonna get goosebumps.Footnotes1)  The 1988 album that kickstarted Brosmania, spending 69 weeks in the Top 75 on the back of hits such as When Will I Be Famous?, one of Bros’s eight Top 10 singles.2) One of the stranger pop fashions, which was eventually banned in schools owing to constant clacking.3) Nicknamed “Ken” by Smash Hits, the bassist left in 1989, later explaining that he never wanted to be famous. He now works in band management.4) Bros played their last gig at Wembley stadium in 1989, to 77,000 people, before finally splitting in 1992.5) Luke has appeared in more than 50 films, including Death Race 2 and 3, and played Frankenstein’s monster on TV.6) Arena dates in Nottingham, Glasgow and Birmingham were all cancelled.