A top Sky executive has dismissed accusations that Game of Thrones uses violence against women as character development.Gary Davey, managing director of content at Sky, said it was “nonsense” to make such a suggestion, arguing that male characters are subjected to just as much violence in the hit fantasy drama.In a discussion panel at the Edinburgh International Television Festival, Davey was asked specifically about the rape of the character Sansa Stark on her wedding night, a controversial storyline that has raised widespread debate and was even mentioned in the US senate.Game of Thrones walks fine line on rape: how much more can audiences take? “I think that’s nonsense,” said Davey. “There is also a lot of violence to men. For anybody who’s watched the show it can be a very violent show. I don’t think the violence against women is particularly highlighted. It is just part of the story. The rape happens, it’s part of the story, it was in the books.”That specific scene did not appear in George RR Martin’s books, although there was a rape of a different character.The TV scene was almost universally decried by fans, with Vanity Fair publishing a piece headlined: “Game of Thrones absolutely did not need to go there with Sansa Stark”.Davey admitted that the sixth and latest season was “pretty intense” but said that Sky had only received three complaints about the show’s often extreme scenes of sex and violence.“I think it is bit silly, it is not like sex and violence on TV is a new idea,” he said. “I feel like I’ve been defending it for most of my adult life. In fact I’m not sure it’s any worse or any better than it’s ever been. And I think part of the issue is context. “I think Sky Atlantic in particularly is a really good example. People know what to expect there. It is challenging content whether it is the story structure, the characters or indeed the intensity of the content in sex and violence context really matters.”Davey said that the TV show is now ahead of the books but that author Martin remains involved in the development of plotlines.“We are now past the books so the story is evolving,” he said. “We got ahead of the books so we had to write original content and we have done that in conjunction with original author. The [low] complaint level clarifies our audience knows what to expect from Sky Atlantic and a show like Game of Thrones.”