A girl stands on a half-dark stage and begins to speak. Her voice is strong but her words are strange; it’s hard to know what she is describing, who she is addressing. Gradually her story begins to make sense. It’s a tale of illness and religious bigotry, of cruelty and abuse, of love, grief and self-destruction. It holds you in its hand and compels you to listen.This is the effect of the stage version of Eimear McBride’s 2013 novel A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing, adapted by Annie Ryan and performed, with frightening intensity and power, by Aoife Duffin. It’s a new way of experiencing a book that was, in itself, a phenomenon.Written in six months, when McBride was 27, it took her nine years to publish, yet once it emerged into the light, it was immediately acclaimed, winning the Bailey’s women’s prize for fiction and earning McBride the accolade of genius from people who didn’t usually bandy that word around.When she sat down to write, McBride had been planning a very different book, a panoramic “rip off” of James Joyce’s Ulysses, set in London. Yet it was this claustrophobic narrative of a girl in rural Ireland, struggling to take control of her life, refusing to be bowed by unbearable events, that sprang into her head.“This was the story that just kept pushing its way through until I realised I had to follow it,” she says. “Sometimes it led me all over the place, so I was telling this whole story that I actively disliked the thought of writing – it was Irish, about child abuse, religious upbringing, guilt and death – but that’s what the voice insisted upon and when I wavered from it the prose just died.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The story just kept pushing its way through’ … Eimear McBride. Photograph: Teri PengilleyIt is the prose that makes A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing so extraordinary, a finely honed stream, full of short sentences, coined words, compressed sense, that puts no distance between the girl and her thoughts, drawing you directly inside her head. It was reading it aloud that first made Annie Ryan, who knew McBride through a friendship between their respective husbands, imagine putting the book on stage. “I really felt it was performable,” she says. “I didn’t know if it was stageable, but I knew it was something that could be spoken.”Faced with this possibility, McBride hesitated. “I wasn’t that interested because to me the book is very particularly a novel. More than most novels, it seems to me a thing of language and not of performance. Definitely tell rather than show. The whole idea behind the book is that it happens inside the reader. I was concerned about viewing the girl from the outside.”But Ryan was persuasive, and McBride’s own background in theatre made her intrigued to explore the idea. She had trained as an actor at the Drama Centre in London, using the Stanislavski system to explore character. She left after one of her brothers, Donagh, died from a brain tumour – an event that finds an echo in A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing – but the training left its mark.“It taught me how to look at people, how to make people and that was the way I decided to make the girl,” she explains. “It was really about trying to do method writing rather than method acting, trying to draw in all the disparate experiences of the body and the mind and make the language express them simultaneously.”A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing five-star review – a courageously feminist production The actor Aoife Duffin also paused when Ryan sent her the book. She was starring in a version of Spring Awakening at the time, and had played a rape victim in two different films. “I had just had a lot of grief,” she says. “Rape features a lot in the roles I have played over the years. So I was hesitant. But the moment I read the book I felt like I knew the girl; she was very clear to me.”Though the place the girl grows up is never identified in the pages. The moment McBride heard Duffin, who is from Kerry with its distinctive accent, read her words, she was convinced. “I knew she understood. I just thought, OK. Whatever else happens, even if Annie dresses her up in a tutu and clown shoes, it will be fine because she understands the language.”There were still challenges. McBride insisted – and Ryan was happy to agree – that the play should take the form of a monologue. Every character would materialise through the girl’s description of them – and not a word of the text could be changed. It could only be cut, shrinking the novel from around eight hours to around 80 minutes.In adapting the work – produced by her theatre company, the Corn Exchange – Ryan came up against the difference between page and stage. “Eimear said her artistic intention was to disturb the reader. She doesn’t make it easy in the way she writes. But I have the opposite intention – to hold the audience, not to release them too early or too completely. We have to keep going. That’s very difficult. To find space and variation so there isn’t just this litany of terrible events.” You have somebody who is trying to be seen, trying to exist, but all these other voices push her down For all her curiosity and intelligence, the character of the girl walks across a terrain of darkness – abused by her uncle, chastised by her mother, full of sadness as her brother falls ill. The play evokes Samuel Beckett, both in its poetry and its bleakness. “I kept thinking of Happy Days, and that helped me stage it,” says Ryan. “The stillness in it and the way Winnie sinks into the ground. The difference is Winnie is terrified of the abyss, but our character finds solace in it.”Both McBride and Ryan were worried about the effect on Duffin of playing the part, night after night – on the first two occasions she read the text aloud, she broke down. Now, she strives to find a balance between remembering that emotion and avoiding being overwhelmed by it.“It requires a lot of energy, mental and physical,” she says. “I spend a lot of my time trying to find ways of getting energy anywhere I can – food, exercise, yoga. I’ve been thinking of it as a dance, which puts me outside the dark emotional world of it, thinking of its very subtle character-shifts moving around the spine, a dance of tension and release.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It requires a lot of energy, mental and physical’ … Duffin in A Girl is a Half-formed ThingNevertheless, she still fights back the tears when she talks about the play. “I feel you have somebody who is trying to be seen, trying to exist, but all of these things come in on top of her, all these other voices push her down.”From the moment the play opened at the Dublin theatre festival, audiences have been both to Wales Millenium Centre, Cardiff (29 March–2 April), the Everyman, Liverpool (5–9 April), and the Baryshnikov Arts Center, New York (20–30 April). It is part of Culture Ireland’s 2016 centenary programme.spellbound and moved. For Ryan, that sense of a voice being heard is the justification for the transfer of the work to the stage. “There is something radical about it just being from a girl’s point of view. I think that alone is so unusual. In Ireland particularly we have a lot of one-man shows; we haven’t had that much from a female point of view. The intention of the production was to bear witness to the story as a group, which is what a theatre experience is.”A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing: the book that wants to be heard McBride’s relationship to the play is both passionate and detached. “It means a lot and it doesn’t because it’s not the book. I feel much more protective about the book and what people say about that. The play I do feel a lot of distance from: it’s my words and characters, but it’s not what I wrote.”In any case, for the past nine years, she has been writing her second novel – “a love story set in London in the 1990s. Very different” – due to be published in September. Both the long struggle to be published and the eventual praise have required her to find deep reserves of self-belief. “It was like a millstone around my neck in both ways. It was six years writing the new book before Girl was published, and I spent those six years thinking, am I wasting my time? No one will want it, no one will be interested, no one will understand it. Then suddenly Girl sold and everything happened and then it was a millstone the other way with everyone saying, will she ever be able to write another one now, what will she do next?”• A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing is at the Young Vic, London SE1, Wednesday until 26 March, then touring.