Of all the big cities in America, Detroit is among the least hospitable to bike sharing. The city is bankrupt. Its residents are poor. And it sprawls over 142 sq miles (367.8 sq km), nearly enough area to fit San Francisco, Boston and New York within its borders. Winters can be harsh, public transit is dismal and it is, after all, the Motor City.But a nimble little bike-sharing startup called Zagster is making inroads in Motown. Last year, Dan Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans who has invested more than $1.3bn in Detroit, turned to Zagster to start a private bike-sharing network for his employees. The local utility company DTE Energy, as well as the United Way of Southern Michigan and several small companies, followed. This week, General Motors announced that Zagster will make its bikes available to 19,000 employees at the 330-acre GM Tech Center in Warren.  What’s more, Bill Ford, the executive chairman of the Ford Motor Co, has invested in Zagster through Fontinalis Partners, a venture capital firm that invests in “next-generation mobility”. Tim Ericson, the 28-year-old co-founder and CEO of Zagster, told me: “We’re creating what is almost becoming a citywide bike sharing program, with no public funds and no use of public space.” Founded in Philadelphia in 2007 as CityRyde and now headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Zagster contracts with companies, real estate developers, universities and hotels that want to offer bike sharing to workers, students or guests. The company has about 25 customers in 18 states, including real estate developers Hines and Related Cos, universities Yale and Duke, and Hyatt and Four Seasons hotels. Some of those clients charge their workers, students or guests for bikes, while others provide them as a free perk. While Zagster is growing, the company remains a blip on the bike-sharing scene when compared to big urban systems such as New York’s Citi Bike and Washington DC’s Capital Bikeshare. Citi Bike, the largest bike-sharing system in the US, has about 6,000 bikes, Capital Bikeshare has about 1,800 and Zagster, in all of its locations, has about 600. But Citi Bike, while popular with New Yorkers, has lost millions of dollars, and Capital Bikeshare was built with federal funds and requires modest operating subsidies. Alta Bicycle Share, which operates the bike sharing systems in New York, Washington and other cities (and which I wrote about in March) is struggling and reportedly about to be sold. By contrast, Zagster is venture-funded and requires no government backing, largely because its costs are far lower than the taxpayer-supported big-city systems. The company’s bikes are less expensive, but still solid, Ericson told me, and its technology eliminates the need for the costly “smart docks” and kiosks that are part of big public systems. Zagster bikes cost between $1,000 and $2,000 to deploy, compared to the cost of $5,000 to $7,000 per bike in the public systems, according to Ericson. “We take out a lot of the upfront costs, and scale back in areas that are unnecessary,” Ericson says. “Zagster would never work in New York or Philadelphia. This is a way to bring bike sharing to smaller communities, whether it’s a small city, a company or a college campus.” While some customers have dropped Zagster after trying it out, others are expanding. “Almost every bike on the ground could turn into five with our existing partners,” Ericson says. Arguably, Zagster represents the privatization of a form of public transportation that, ideally, would get taxpayer support, just as buses and trains do. But cities like Detroit, which struggle to provide basic services to citizens, are unlikely to subsidize bikes. That leaves an opening for the private sector, which has its own reasons for supporting bike sharing. “This is just a great way to promote healthy lifestyles and engage our employees,” David Tulauskas, director of sustainability for GM, said in this GM video. Beyond that, GM wants to learn about how bike sharing can mesh with its core business of selling cars and trucks. Tulauskas said: “Today’s traditional business model of selling vehicles to individual consumers is under threat - not just because of social issues like local air pollution and congestion, but also through new trends and new mindsets, the sharing economy. We’re not afraid of that. We’re embracing it.”The values-led business hub is funded by SC Johnson. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.