In theory, The Jungle Book should be a respite from the never-ending parade of tights-donning do-gooders whooshing across our screens. The original story is based not on Jack Kirby comics, but on Rudyard Kipling’s 1894 collection of stories and on the 1967 Disney animated musical. The latter, especially, treated the adventures of Mowgli the man-cub in the Indian jungle as an opportunity for goofy whimsy and jaunty slapstick; Mowgli himself was more often saved from danger by Bagheera and Baloo than the other way around. In the new film, Mowgli (Neel Sethi) still gets rescued a time or two. But given all the superfolks on adjacent screens, it’s hard to ignore the ease with which Mowgli’s origin story fits into the superhero narrative. Rather than being rocketed from the planet Krypton to be raised by humans, Mowgli’s father is killed and he’s taken by Bagheera to be raised by wolves. And like Superman, Mowgli’s special background gives him special abilities – a fact the live-action film plays up in a way that previous tellings of the story have not.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The 2016 Mowgli is constantly constructing “tricks” – mechanical contraptions that help him scale rock walls and battle the evil supervillain/tiger Shere Kahn (voiced by Idris Elba). In the film’s most obvious superhero set piece, an elephant baby has fallen into a pit. Mowgli races to the rescue, using his ropes and opposable thumbs to get the baby out, much to the relief of the rest of the herd. Following that feat, both the bear Baloo (voiced by Bill Murray) and panther Bagheera (voiced by Ben Kingsley) agree that Mowgli is “special” – a scene reminiscent of many a superhero film, in which we learn the protagonist is a chosen man-cub destined to save us all.Mowgli: the heart and troubled soul of The Jungle Book But while The Jungle Book takes a couple of steps towards making Mowgli a kind of Tarzan hero figure, it’s ultimately headed somewhere different. For all Mowgli’s supertricks, he’s still a little boy. Bagheera and Baloo have to bail him out of trouble again and again, because they’re bigger and stronger. For that matter, Mowgli can’t even keep up with his wolf brothers and sisters when they run and play. The man-cub isn’t really superior; he’s just different.In the 1967 cartoon, that difference ultimately meant Mowgli was out of place; a man-cub, the cartoon concluded, should be among men, where he will be neither super nor inferior, but simply normal. The new film seems to adopt that logic at first. Bagheera scolds Mowgli for using his tricks and acting like a man instead of a wolf. And the plot of the film is launched when Shere Khan declares his intention to kill Mowgli and everyone who protects him, prompting the man-cub to leave the wolf pack in order to travel to a human village.Christopher Walken: ‘I don’t need to be made to look evil’ It seems important, to this version of the story, that it’s the bad guys who are most convinced that Mowgli is and always must be a human being, and that his genetics are more important than his culture and his family. King Louie the orangutan (voiced by Christopher Walken) thinks that Mowgli must have power simply because he’s a boy. Similarly, Shere Khan insists that Mowgli, by nature, will bring disaster on the jungle with that human superpower, fire – a prediction that seems to come true when the boy confronts the tiger with a torch. But the mano-a-tiger superbattle never happens. Instead, the fight is a more general melee, as Bagheera, Baloo and the wolf pack led by Raksha (voiced by Lupita Nyong’o) all pitch in. In a final moment of pride at the denouement, Bagheera declares that this is the day “I saw a little boy …”. If you’ve watched enough Hollywood films, you know that that phrase should end with “become a man”. But that’s not what Bagheera says. Instead, the whole line is: “I saw a little boy without a people bring all the jungle together for the very first time.” Mowgli isn’t awesome because he’s an individual, manly superhero, but rather because he’s part of a heterogeneous family and community. And while he may have brought that community together, he doesn’t lead it. At the climax, when the elephants appear, they don’t follow the Tarzan script and bow to Mowgli. He bows to them.The Jungle Book review – spectacular revival of Disney's family favourite “The strength of the pack is the wolf, and the strength of the wolf is the pack.” That’s a Kipling phrase that gets repeated a number of times in the film. It serves to emphasize that this Jungle Book isn’t a story about how one special individual saves everyone. Instead, it’s a tale about how a community betrays itself when it fails to embrace all its members, even the different ones. By sending Mowgli away, the wolves make themselves vulnerable to Shere Khan, and suffer for it. It’s only when the man-cub returns that they can be whole again – not because he rescues them, but because they rescue each other.Unlike most superheroes, Mowgli lacks a secret identity. Everyone knows who he is; he’s not like Clark Kent, impersonating humans to assimilate. In superhero stories on the big screen, being different means being better, being dangerous, being mistrusted, being beloved, being hidden, being, in one way or another, an outsider. But Mowgli’s not an outsider; the pack’s his home. He’s special not because he’s a chosen one, but because every child is special, even the ones who aren’t wolves, and have never been rocketed from Krypton. 