If you want a taste of living home alone, stepping into a dystopian past, or having the ability to master any instrument in an instant – then you’ve come to the right place. These stories do all this and more, thanks to our excellent children’s books reviewers who have been busy choosing the very best books. So without further ado, here are their top picks.1. 1984 by George OrwellTop 10 invented worlds in teen books If you’re on the lookout for dystopian fiction, look no further than this classic read. In this story, the past, present and future is controlled and manipulated by a political party called Big Brother – and Winston Smith stumbles into trouble when he begins writing down his thoughts. “Orwell effectively explores the themes of mass media control, government surveillance, totalitarianism and how a dictator can manipulate and control history, thoughts, and lives in such a way that no one can escape it,” commented site member Conheeneyl in their review.  Perhaps the most powerful, effective and frightening notion of 1984 is that the complete control of an entire nation under a totalitarian state is perfectly possible.The party slogan epitomises their control: “War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength.”2. The Hidden Oracle by Rick RiordanListen to Rick Riordan reading from The Trials of Apollo: The Hidden Oracle Now travelling on from dystopian worlds to mythical lands, our next readers’ pick takes a legendary twist. After angering his father Zeus, the god Apollo is cast down to earth and forced to live as a regular teenage boy. But with gods, monsters and evil humans looking to destroy him, he soon turns to camp half-blood for help. Site member bibliophile1 praised Riordan’s writing style. “It is very casual, which makes you feel as though you are actually talking to the character – and he manages to inject humour, even during sad moments”. Our reviewer also enjoyed the mythological element of the story.  I love the fact that his novels are based on mythology and how he manages to incorporate myth and legend so seamlessly into a modern day setting.3. Harper and the Scarlet Umbrella by Cerrie Burnell and Laura Ellen AndersonCerrie Burnell: every child deserves to have their life represented in books Moving on to something for our younger readers now. From powerless gods to extraordinary people: this next book follows Harper, a girl who can play any instrument without learning a single note! When Harper’s cats go missing, she teams up with her friends (and a magic umbrella) to find them. “I really enjoyed this wonderful adventure book,” enthused reader Twinkletoes. Our reader also particularly liked the illustrations by Laura Ellen Anderson.  [The pictures] are fabulous and brilliant. I think this story would be exciting for all 7-12 year olds.4. The Princess in Black by Shannon HaleWhat are the best children's fantasy book series? Continuing the theme of magical objects, this recommended read has a dual personality. In this story, sweet Princess Magnolia has a magic glitter stone ring that “rings” – transforming her into the monster-fighting Princess in Black.  But she must keep her new identity under wraps as Duchess Wigtower is “snooping round the castle looking for any clues to Magnolia’s secrets, as reviewer Hoot Owl described.Our reader recommended the story to those “who like fantasy and adventure”, and said the most interesting part of the book was when “Princess Black defeated the Blue monster”. Even her horse, Frimplepants, transforms too and joins the Princess on her escapades.5. Lily Alone by Jacqueline WilsonMy writing day: Jacqueline Wilson Our last readers’ pick returns to real-life drama, as 11-year-old Lily is left alone for a week to look after her three younger half-siblings.  I liked this book because it’s very unpredictable – you just don’t know what’s going to happen next!” commented reviewer Smile4fun. Our reader also liked the way the book tackled complicated problems.  It’s quite an adventurous book when Lily takes the children everywhere without locking the door because she doesn’t have keys! ... I also liked the part when Lily found a tree that everybody could sleep in at night and nobody could see them during day and night.Happy reading everyone! 