The University of Warwick in Coventry has committed to divest from fossil fuels, saying it will move the £1m of its investments in coal, oil and gas from its £14m endowment as soon as possible.Dan Goss, one of more than 100 student campaigners who have spent two years calling on the university to divest, said: “We are all delighted that Warwick has brought its investments in line with its professed values, and heeded the call of the democratic majority. “We’re overjoyed by this victory – but it’s just the beginning. Divestment is the spring board for a united front against the fossil fuel industry globally and on campuses.”The campaign at the university is part of a global fossil fuel divestment movement, galvanised by the environmental NGO 350.org. More than 220 institutions have now been persuaded to divestment in some form, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil dynasty, Stanford university in the US and the Church of England.Warwick holds no direct investments in the top 200 fossil fuel companies. The decision concerns investments in mixed funds, which are managed externally and rely on automatic indexes. Campaigners expect an appropriate fund excluding fossil fuel companies to be available within the next year.Climate campaign sign upSir George Cox, the chair of the University Council said: “Warwick’s students are global citizens who seek to challenge all of us to consider and reflect on how we as a community can have an impact on this issue both together and as individuals. Throughout the discussions leading up to today our students have presented clear arguments that they wanted council to hear and take seriously and they can be assured by the outcome of our meeting today that council has done so”.Andrew Taylor of People & Planet, the organisation supporting the student divestment movement in the UK said: “Warwick’s decision is another clear signal that any university that doesn’t divest is going against the tide. Any institution with a moral compass should be turning their backs on the fossil fuel industry now.”A divestment decision is also expected from the University of Manchester on Wednesday following the publication of a letter on Tuesday in support of the move signed by close to 100 university staff members, including writer Jeanette Winterson and Prof Kevin Anderson, deputy director of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research. A freedom of information request shows the university currently holds £9.5m in fossil fuel companies.In March, the Guardian launched a campaign calling on the world’s two largest charitable foundations to divest from fossil fuels. It asks the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Wellcome Trust to move their money out of the top 200 fossil fuel companies and to immediately freeze any new investments.