Future is in an opulent country club in the upscale Bel Air suburb of Los Angeles. He is playing with two rose-gold iPhone 7s while picking at a bowl of fruit and half a dozen slowly softening chocolate-chip cookies. As the Rat Pack croon in the background, he taps away on his phones, wearing his signature oversized sunglasses and a hoodie featuring a mugshot of Jimi Hendrix, a man he has commandeered as his own rock’n’roll spirit animal. It looks like a scene from a Hype Williams video, and if any rapper deserves the big budget and fisheye-lens treatment in 2017, it’s Future.He has just become the first artist to achieve back-to-back No 1 records in successive weeks on the Billboard album chart with his self-titled album, which came out in late February, and Hndrxx, which followed a week later. He has been a fixture on US late-night TV, performing on Fallon, and made the leap to daytime for a turn on that most mainstream of afternoon spots, Ellen. In the past two years, he has put out five albums, all of which have gone to No 1, including his collaboration with Drake, What a Time to Be Alive. He has also released six mixtapes in the past three years and played a part in writing Drunk in Love for Beyoncé. It’s an approach the New York Times dubbed “the art of flooding the market”, and has seen Future become an unavoidable presence on the radio, TV or anywhere popular music is played. Is he overdoing it? “It’s never too much,” he says. “There’s never too much Future music.”The last time the Guardian spoke to Future – real name Nayvadius Cash – was just before the release of his second album, Honest, in 2014. It got to No 2 in the US charts but failed to launch him as the international star his label wanted. It seemed to prove a theory some had that Future was a rap curio who wasn’t quite right be a mainstream star. It jolted him into changing his approach. “I’m more involved, dialled in now, focused on the vision of where I want to take my career,” he says. “From the photos to the performances, everything has to be a complete picture, all the way down to the music. It starts with the music and then everything around it has to have the same adrenaline, that same consistency throughout the stage performance.”Away from music, his much publicised relationship with the R&B star Ciara was falling apart and being reported blow-for-blow on gossip sites and Twitter. After an unamicable split – Ciara filed for sole custody of their child, Future Zahir, and sued him for $15m (£12.2m) – Future’s music became noticeably darker and harder. The first mixtape released after the breakup, Monster, saw him appear on the cover as a Walking Dead-style zombie. He said he channelled a lot of his anger and sadness into his music, taking the advice of his longtime consigliere DJ Esco, who was one of the architects of Future’s recent chart assault. As well as the harder, more street-focused sound, Future also addressed the breakup on record, albeit in a way that Patrick Bateman might have cooked up, when he rapped that he was thinking about Ciara while having sex with another woman. On Hndrxx there are numerous explicit references to betrayal, how he should have dealt with things better and what seem to be thinly veiled jabs at Ciara.“On Hndrxx I just put everything out there, I put everything on the line,” he says. “I’ve got to be who I am. I’d rather for them to know who I am than for me to fake the person that I’m not. I’d rather take a chance on me than gamble on something that’s not me.” But does he regret the way his private life has played out so publicly? “Everybody has regrets,” he says. “I would have loved to do some things different. If I could have done it different and still be here, I would obviously do it.”Some critics have said the two albums represent a yin and a yang. The self-titled record is the more upbeat Future that fans got to know on his mixtapes, while Hndrxx is more withdrawn and melancholy. “I’ve been sad before, so why not make something that’s sad?” he asks. “If people in their life are sad, it’s not a bad thing. They can relate, like, ‘Damn, he feel like I was feeling.’ You feel like you’re not alone. You can relate to the poorest person on earth. They can feel like they’re not alone in this and they feel like I’ve either been through this or I’m a great-ass storyteller.”Sitting in a Bel Air country club taking about relating to the poorest person on earth might seem an intellectual leap too far for some. But it’s clear that Future genuinely believes his output has mystical properties; he’s absolutely certain his music isn’t just a vicarious escape, it’s musical ayahuasca, through which participants can have a life-changing experience one three-minute rap song at a time. “I’m giving you a chance to be someone you’re not,” he explains, before drawing out his psychedelic road map. “Music gives you this ultimate high. You’re listening to this music, you start to feel high. You feel like you’re indulging in drugs. You feel like you’ve experienced certain things. You feel like you have a babymother, you might not even have kids. You feel like every step of the way, you’re experiencing it with Future. That’s what music does, that’s what having a connection with the fans does. They might not live like you but this music makes us feel like one.”At times Future sounds more like Timothy Leary expounding on the virtues of LSD than one of the world’s elite rappers. And, like Leary, his enthusiastic portrayal of drug use as positive rather than detrimental has seen him criticised. With lyrics such as, “I just took a piss and I seen codeine coming out”, or in track titles including Xanny Family and Codeine Crazy, or in casual references to abused allergy medicine promethazine, he don’t exactly hide the fact that he takes drugs. So what about those who say he should stop promoting potentially fatal drug use? “I’m going to do it more,” he snaps. “Everything needs a reaction. If you slap someone and they don’t say ‘Ouch’ you know you haven’t slapped them hard enough. If you do music and they don’t have an opinion about it, you ain’t do anything. You’re suppose to get a reaction. When you stop getting a reaction, they stop talking; that’s when you need to start changing it up.”He says the next items on his agenda are launching a beverage (he won’t say what) and the small task of winning 10 Grammys in one year, which would smash the record of eight won by Michael Jackson in 1984 and Santana in 2000. But after the Adele/Beyoncé controversy, does he think it’s possible for a rap album to win best album?“Anything is possible,” he says. “They probably didn’t think a black man could make two No 1 albums in two weeks. You’ve got to set your own destiny and go for the impossible. That’s what we do, man. We take risks. I’m not supposed to make a black album because they say a black album won’t win a Grammy? We’ll just make another one until we change their impressions and change their thoughts. We could be the first one. I want to be the first one to change everyone’s mentality. How did you do it? I did it because I never give up. We’re the ones that goes harder when they say we can’t do it. We find ways around things. We made a way when there wasn’t a way.”• Future and Hendrxx are available now on Sony/Epic