Snapshot: Visiting Folkestone beach with my mumThis picture always makes me smile. My mother and I are off to the beach and we have our priorities sorted. I’m carrying a bucket, spade and a sailing boat, and my mother, like the good mum she is, is hung about with “just in case” things – two more spades, a coat to sit on and a large bag stuffed with newspapers and magazines, and snacks to keep us going while we sunbathe, swim and dig sandcastles at the water’s edge. Our clothes are a lot more formal than today’s jeans and T-shirts. I’m wearing a cotton dress and sunhat, shorts socks and Start-rite shoes. Mum is slim and elegant in a flowered summer dress with a bow at the neck that looks as fashionable in 2017 as it did 80 years ago. The dress must have been bought in Paris, where we lived before the war, but I think her sensible shoes are English.That moment in time was snapped by my father with his new German camera, in August 1937. A British family of three, we were living a comfortable expat life in a suburb near Paris, but had crossed the Channel to spend our summer holidays as usual in Folkestone. England wasn’t home to me; it was foreign and exotic. France didn’t have amusement arcades with slot machines that you fed with pennies, it didn’t have a wonderful Punch and Judy show on the beach every day, and it didn’t have open booths where you could watch great rolls of sticky stuff being slapped, punched and shaped into delicious sweet tubes of seaside rock.My parents emigrated to France in 1926 when my father accepted a job as an accountant to an international chain of hotels. My mother and father came from poor families in south-east London and had won scholarships to their respective grammar schools. Moving to France was a chance to start a new life. Who can blame them for choosing what seemed like a good career move? They lived well and avoided the horrors of the slump in 1930s Britain. I was born in Folkestone in 1932 and crossed the Channel wrapped in a shawl at three weeks old. France was home from then on and I grew up not noticing whether I was speaking French or English. The drawback was that, in moving, my parents more or less turned their back on their relations so I never knew my grandparents, and this lack of family contacts affected my sense of identity.Our annual visits to Folkestone continued until 1939, when I found myself sitting round a table with half a dozen grownups listening to Mr Chamberlain telling us in a crackly voice that “this country is now at war with Germany”. That afternoon I went down to the beach with my mum for what I knew would be the last time.After German troops invaded France in 1940 my parents and I joined a million refugees fleeing south. We were taken on board a civilian rescue boat out of Bordeaux and when our ship docked four days later it was at the port of Falmouth, a long way from Folkestone. We went to London and were soon sitting in shelters listening to the whine of bombs falling during the blitz. Folkestone’s bright magic disappeared like a mirage and I’ve never been back, although I’ve often meant to. But I have still got the photograph to remind me that, one summer’s day in 1937, my mother and I were off to the beach.Daphne WallPlaylist: Sun, grapes and my surprise Elvis debutIt’s Now or Never by Elvis Presley“It’s now or never / Come hold me tight / Kiss me my darling / Be mine tonight”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When I was at university in the early 1960s, we thought Elvis a bit passé in the new age of the Beatles, but this song was so catchy and schmaltzy that my roommate and I sang it repeatedly. It was full of an old-fashioned romantic longing that, although we might not have admitted it at the time, appealed to our naive and virginal hearts.I spent the summer of my second year in France, ending with a fortnight picking grapes at a small chateau in the Bordeaux region. It was hard work on those long, hot days, back bent, going along the rows of vines cutting off the ripe bunches with secateurs. I had to be careful not to lose a finger to the short-sighted elderly Breton snipping away on the other side of the line.Each evening, all the grape-pickers – a Moroccan, a Tunisian, three itinerant Bretons, the teenaged daughters of the house, and a Spanish family of seven – gathered in the chateau’s kitchen for a simple meal of soup, salad and bread washed down with the local red wine.On our final evening, celebrating the end of the harvest, our meal included some meat and even a pudding of stewed apples plus extra wine and coffee. I was told that everybody had to produce a party piece. I had known that I could not sing since I was turned down for the school choir at the age of nine. However, maybe the sun had gone to my head, or perhaps it was the wine, because I stood up and sang Elvis’s It’s Now or Never. As it was sung to the tune of the well-known Neapolitan song O Sole Mio, everyone joined in, in whatever language or none, and the song was a great success, repeated several times.In later years, whenever I heard the tune of the Walls ice-cream ad on the television – “Just one cornetto” – I was transported back to that warm evening in 1962, the taste of stewed apple on the tongue, and Elvis’s luscious yearning voice in my head.Nicky ClarkWe love to eat: Grandma’s princess breakfastIngredients1 eating appleDouble creamA handful of any of the following:RaisinsChopped datesChopped nutsSliced bananaDesiccated coconutChocolate chips (plain chocolate is best)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grandma’s princess breakfast.This recipe originated in my grandma’s kitchen one morning in the 1950s. My great-grandmother, Rose, was staying with the family, as she did from time to time, and wanted something different for breakfast. Grandma cast around for whatever she had in the cupboard and served it up in a bowl to Great-grandma Rose, who exclaimed, “Why it’s fit for a princess!” A family classic was born.My mum used to make it on Sunday mornings as a treat for me and my sister. We shared the apple between us and offered to help in a ruse to get more chocolate chips. I used to save the chocolate chips for the end, coated in cream with a hint of apple for sharp sweetness – a precious final mouthful before heading to Sunday school. You would have to pick the coconut out of your teeth as you went.Modern additions to the mix include sunflower seeds, grapes, yoghurt instead of cream and, to be healthy, these days I rarely have the chocolate.In the early days of my pregnancy, I lived on this, the taste a comforting reminder of home while I dealt with the nerves I felt over having a child. I don’t think we have ever bothered to write it down formally. As with many of our family recipes, it’s a hotchpotch of whatever you can find in the cupboard.Sue BarsbyWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.