An environment minister got his figures dramatically wrong on the climate change benefit of introducing a 5p charge on plastic bags in England.Dan Rogerson told MPs scrutinising the charge that it would cut carbon emissions by the equivalent of 2.2m cars instead of the correct number of 37,500, prompting criticism that the miscalculation was "symptomatic of a department struggling to keep its head above water."The embarassing mistake adds to mounting concern over the policy, which critics say is far more complex than charges already in place in Wales and Northern Ireland, which have led to a huge drop in bag use. Deputy prime minister Nick Clegg announced the 5p charge on single-use plastic bags in September. The government said: "Discarded plastic bags are an iconic symbol of waste. They are a very visible form of littering and can cause injury to marine wildlife ... and consume resources, including oil, in their creation."In 2012, supermarkets alone gave out over 8bn single-use plastic bags across the UK – 120 bags per person – and totalling 60,000 tonnes of plastic..However, evidence given to the Environmental Audit Committee (EAC) of MPs, which is scrutinising the government's proposals revealed the huge error over the predicted cut in carbon emissions. Dan Rogerson, minister at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), initially told the committee: "I think there are real gains to be made [in carbon reduction]. We could reduce greenhouse gas emissions of around 5m-8m tonnes of CO2, which is equivalent to permanently taking 1.7m-2.7m cars off the road." But the emissions associated with each bag had mistakenly been vastly exaggerated and Defra had to correct the figures to 32,000-43,000 cars.Joan Walley, the Labour MP who chairs the EAC, said: "It has become something of a cliché that government ministers don't know the price of milk, but you might expect a department responsible for the environment to have done its sums properly on the carbon impact of a new policy to charge for plastic bags."She added: "Such a glaring mistake seems symptomatic of a department struggling to keep its head above water. Defra's remit is wide – from protecting the country from flooding to looking after our food, farming, woods and wildlife – and since 2010 it has had to do all this with a lot less money. The big cuts at Defra are prompting concerns that it now lacks the capacity to implement policies successfully or handle emergencies."The EAC will publish its report on the plastic bag charge on Thursday, but the evidence given to the committee was often highly critical. The plastic recycling industry was surprised – and horrified – by the exemption from the charge for biodegradable bags. Jessica Baker, from recycler Chase Plastics and representing the British Plastics Federation Recycling Group, told the MPs the idea was "disastrous". She said: "It is almost impossible to achieve what the government are looking for. If we actually get a bag that degrades as they are requiring – ie very quickly and in all environments – it will [by definition] not be reprocessable with normal waste stream, hence you will put all the reprocessing jobs at risk."Mike Baxter, from the British Plastics Association, told MPs: "It came completely out of the blue. It was a complete surprise."The plan for the 5p charge also exempts any business with fewer than 250 employees, meaning most small shops and takeaways will not have to levy the fee. A representative from the British Retail Consortium said this approach was "illogical" when compared with the regulations in place in Wales and Northern Ireland, where no exemption exists. When Zac Goldsmith, an EAC member, asked Rogerson whether any small businesses had requested an exemption, Rogerson replied. "Not to my knowledge. No, we have not had any representations. I think it is more about the government's approach to smaller businesses across government."Another expert, Wouter Poortinga, a reader in environmental psychology at Cardiff University, was asked if the government's plan was too complex. He said: "I do agree with that completely. It gives mixed messages; for the consumer, it is not very clear. I think it would be less effective than a charge on all types of carrier bags."A Defra spokeswoman said: "Plastic bags are a blight on our towns and countryside which is why we are bringing in a charge. The main reason for introducing the charge is to reduce litter." She noted research on developing biodegradable bags was continuing and that the government was considering its final decision on exempting small shops.Walley said: "We have seen rushed, incoherent decision-making, which leads us to suspect that Defra lacks the basic capacity to deliver successful policy. The extent to which this is due to leadership, the cuts in staff numbers, or ministerial direction is not clear."The proceeds of the 5p charge in England will go to green charities, not the government or retailers and is expected to be in force by October 2015. Scotland will introduce a charge later in 2014, while the Republic of Ireland has charged for bags since 2002.