Below is this week’s playlist – results picked by a reader from the comments on last week’s blog. Thanks for all your suggestions. You can read more details of the weekly format of Readers Recommend at the end of the piece.Lá fhéile Pádraig sona dhaoibh! (Happy St Patrick’s Day!) Time was, in the years BC [before children], DsMam and I would have been in Ireland today, arguing with our friends Jon and Anne about which pub we should settle into for the duration of our St Patrick’s Day drinking. Why the argument? Because between the four of us, we had one Guinness drinker, one lover of the sourer Beamish, one who preferred the slightly sweeter Murphy’s, and one cider drinker who didn’t care what the stout was – she just wanted to avoid conflict and get on with enjoying the craic, the eating, the drinking and the music. And therein lies the theme for this week’s column. We’re off on a touring holiday, my friends, to see the sights of this fair land.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist.Click here if you use Spotify.Unsurprisingly, we start in Dublin. This could be a week in itself, but no sooner has Mike Scott welcomed us to his City Full of Ghosts, than we’re driven out of town by Paranoid Visions’ shout of From Dublin With Love. Heading south, we find ourselves cruising the Streets of Arklow with Van Morrison, before turning inland and stopping for a drink in Kilkenny, where Jackie Leven is playing at the Marble City Bar – though he’s not in much of a holiday mood!From there, it’s on to one of Ireland’s more … um … internationally known tourist must-sees, the Blarney Stone (Ween). Pffft, a money-making scam. So let’s move on. Ignoring the south-west-bound N71 road and trying to forget a previous holiday that ended in violence – not between the four of us, but at a wedding reception between a McMontague and an O’Capulet that spilled out of a hotel next to our cottage – we instead head west, and hope that Warren Zevon’s romance at Macgillycuddy’s Reeks in Killarney works out better for that particular couple.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Planxty (Andy Irvine, Johnny Moynihan, Liam O’Flynn and Paul Brady) captured by a reader in the mid-70s. Photograph: PeteThePedant/GuardianWitnessWe drive north, then turn left at Limerick towards the West Coast of Clare, where Planxty help things settle into a more traditional Irish pace. But there’s still plenty going on. Sadly this playlist isn’t stopping at Lisdoonvarna, because we’ve got a meal booked at the excellent Monks Bar in Ballyvaughan, and from there we have an invite from The Dubliners to join them at The Galway Races.When that’s over, there’s only one road out of town for us and The Saw Doctors: the N17, with its stone walls and “the grass is green, travelling with just my thoughts and dreams”. Hmmm, eyes on the road please, that pesky half-size inside lane system still does my head in! Once in the north, we see that there are Trees on the Streets of Derry. There’s a fantastic Sunrise (the Divine Comedy) from here, too, but we have to ignore that, as it’s previously zedded ... Shall we get right into Northern Ireland’s capital, and drive around the bright lights and brash buildings of Belfast in the bustle of a busy Saturday night with Orbital as our soundtrack? After all that, Sunday is for relaxing. Let’s kick back, watch the world go by, have a picnic, read the papers, and generally chill out and feel good. That’s what holidays are for, no? We’re meeting up again with Van the Man at Coney Island, and I’ll leave the perfect last words to him: “Wouldn’t it be great if it was like this all the time?”If you’d like to visualise the route, our writer has created this map – click to view using Google Maps.New theme To get involved and make a suggestion for next week’s playlist, click here. You will have until 11pm on Monday 21 March to make your nominations.Next week’s playlist will be assembled by misterbadexample. Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:• If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com or add it here via GuardianWitness.• There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.• Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.