‘You told all your favourite “Devon was a whore when I met her” stories – you served me up on a goddam platter’Despite the title (He In Racist Fire), episode five squares its focus roundly on the women – but don’t get too excited, it is 1973 so it’s mainly just about sex. Devon knows that her only real weapon in the domestic cold-war with Richie is her sexuality. She activates it with something approaching agency here, grinding against Hannibal in a red dress to provoke Richie into a jealous reaction that is the most passive-aggressively awkward, borderline-domestic-violence scene TV has seen in a long while. The tragedy of course is that Devon isn’t mad or even hurt any more, she’s just exhausted. This woman is using her last corners of energy to balls-up her neglectful husband’s business.Elsewhere, the female employees of American Century face mixed fortunes in their strategy of sleeping-with-the-talent. CeCe’s story feels genuinely sad, as she appears to be falling for Hannibal while seeming to believe she’s working as some kind of double-agent for the company. It remains to be seen how depleted she is after her brush with the high-life. A tougher cookie altogether, Jamie has Kip from the Nasty Bits exactly where she wants him, and actually seems to enjoy getting it on with James Jagger (whose acting has never been worse than this episode, it has to be said). And yet, even her promising career is revealed to amount to little more than an extended outbreak of Mommy-Issues. At the very least, Vinyl is self-aware enough to realise that in the 1973 music biz, most sisters were not doing it for themselves.‘Every mop-head in America can’t stop contemplating the mysteries of that floating triangle’There is one woman in Richie’s life, at least, who seems to know how to put him in his place: American Century’s former PR guru Andrea, who he is determined to get back onside to save the company. Here is a woman who doesn’t just mean business, she understands business; her join-the-dots explanation to a befuddled Richie as to Pink Floyd’s enigmatic success is priceless. Poor Devon’s story is finally back-splained: he chose the “more beautiful” Devon over the woman he truly connected with – and evidently has never forgiven his wife for it. Devon’s worm-that-turned moment is being set up nicely now. I don’t even mind that Andrea has to have a sexual history with Richie. At its best, Vinyl is more lovably trashy than most HBO fare. It’s a high-end soap; Dallas with better production values, so everybody needs to be doing the nasty with somebody. That’s why most of the jerks at American Century are so hard to relate to. We’ll be seeing more of Andrea – hopefully to bully Jamie, CeCe and Heather into putting a bit more purchase into overthrowing those morons.Fact and fictionThe sassiest comment I’ve read in a Vinyl review so far came from Salon: “There are Strokes cover bands that sound more like Lou Reed than this.” So it has to sting that Vinyl’s in-house Lou Reed impersonator is ... Julian Casablancas from the Strokes, whom we witness again performing White Light White Heat from the Rock’n’Roll Animal solo era. Meanwhile, Frank Barsolona was a real man, a promoter widely credited with formatting the very idea of the rock concert. He died in 1974.Sound and visionThe deepest cut from this week’s soundtrack comes with vintage R&B tune Watch Your Step, here performed by The Arcs, the side-project from The Black Keys’ Dan Auerbach. The full story of that song can be found here.In the spirit of female empowerment, our Track of the Week goes to original song My Time’s Coming, from The Kills/Dead Weather’s Alison Mosshart.Sleeve notesWith the womenfolk front and centre, there’s barely time to mention Richie’s Dad (“spoken like a man with a functioning prostate”) and the slow-build murder plot. But Lenk the singing detective is revealed to be more than just a pretty face. Emasculation of the Week comes with Creepy Clarke, demoted to Jamie’s sandwich-round without even the benefit of supplementing his income as the in-house drug dealer.“I’ve got to replace you with a black chick!” At least Richie is self-aware.If Vinyl survives long enough to depict the late-70s, I’m looking forward to Julie’s coming-out storyline with the emergence of disco at the Paradise Garage. That guy is surely the biggest closet-case currently on television. (The clue is here: “I almost fucked Peggy Lee but I ended up jacking off instead.”)In another example of the show’s liberal overcompensation, Lester’s new role as the Nasty Bits’ manager finds him as the sole person at American Century who is even halfway good at his job.Andrea’s righteous womansplaining of Pink Floyd to Richie is worth repeating in full: “Your point-of-sales strategies are archaic. Your marketing makes you look like a vacuum-cleaner company. Dark Side of the Moon doesn’t even have a single on it and it’s a blockbuster! A prog rock concept album! Every mop-head in America can’t stop contemplating the mysteries of that floating fucking triangle! Pink Floyd doesn’t have a fucking face. Meanwhile you’re still putting headshots on covers and calling it art. It makes you look boring! I can’t change that in PR, that is a revisualisation of the entire company.”