Snapshot: My parents’ Anglo-Indian weddingThis photograph of my parents’ wedding only came to light after my last surviving aunt (not seen here) died and a cousin was sorting out old albums. My parents – Ida Copland and Hem Gupta, holding hands and wearing button holes – were married in March 1946. They met at work in London hospitals during the war; in classic style, he was a doctor and she was a nurse.My mother used to say that so many nurses and doctors were on the hospital roofs, supposedly fire watching, she was surprised that London did not burn down!Hem was born in India and came to England when he was eight, where he was educated at public school and Cambridge University. Ida was from Scarborough; her mother is on the left in the front. My English granny was a widow and had brought up a large family by running private hotels, as they were called. Only my mother’s oldest sister had been able to go on to grammar school and then teacher training; the other girls all went into nursing, which paid as they trained.My father’s younger brother is still in his RAF uniform, left. My Indian grandmother is wearing her sari on her head – this only happened on very special occasions – and standing back between my mother and one of her sisters, my Auntie Mary.Auntie Mary’s real name was Violet, but when she was nursing in Singapore, from which she was lucky to escape, everyone called her Mary, which she much preferred. Her gloves are truly amazing. I think the lady at the back, with the most stylish hat, is my father’s step-grandmother, in which case she is a Lady – Lady Chatterjee, the second wife of my great-grandfather, Sir Atul. Before this, my mother had once tried to get another job in a hospital outside London – I think she thought my father was getting too serious – but was told by the matron that she could go, but her ration book would stay.Janice Gupta GwilliamPlaylist: A round of applause in our ra-ra skirtsThe Clapping Song by the Belle Stars“Three-six-nine the goose drank wine / The monkey chewed tobacco on the street car line / The line broke the monkey got choked and they all went to heaven in a little row boat”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In the early 80s, on a Saturday night, I could be found down the road at my friend’s house. We used to sit up in her room and listen to music. We did the usual girly thing, dressed in our ra-ra skirts, swaying to and fro, flicking our hair back, singing to the latest records.When the Belle Stars came on the scene, we worshipped them. They were new, cool and exciting. The Clapping Song stood out. Lyrics about a goose drinking wine, a monkey chewing tobacco and choking? It was genius to an impressionable 11-year-old. I remember trying to follow the style of the lead singer, complete with headgear. I cringe when I look at the photo now. Surely someone should have told me how ridiculous I looked? Still, it was the 80s.The Belle Stars had a couple of other hits, but I can’t remember much about them. I’ll never forget The Clapping Song, though; I recall thinking it was actually quite sweet that they all went off to heaven in a little rowing boat.In between our renditions of The Clapping Song and other hits, we needed refreshment, which consisted of Ribena and marmalade on toast. Why marmalade on toast? We both loved marmalade. I remember once having a competition to see who could eat the most. After 10 slices each, I think we called it a draw.My 11-year-old daughter recently heard The Clapping Song and just shook her head. “Have you listened to the lyrics, Mum?” she asked. “That’s just so wrong.”I could say the same of many of the lyrics she listens to, but I think it’s wise not to comment.I still love marmalade on toast, ahough these days I restrict myself to two slices at a time.Esther NewtonWe love to eat: Carrot sticks dipped in melted chocolateIngredientsSliced carrots (or pre-bought carrot sticks)Chocolate. Lots of itOlive oil Cut carrots into slices or batons and place them in a bowl – as many as you think you can eat. Break chocolate into small pieces and put it into a ceramic bowl. Simmer water in a pan on the hob. Just before it starts to bubble, place the bowl of chocolate on top of the pan, to melt it. Stir consistently until it has all melted. When this is done, turn off the hob and add a drop of olive oil to the chocolate so that it will evenly coat the carrot sticks when they are dipped into it. Serve the carrot sticks and melted chocolate in separate bowls and dip away!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jazmin-Heaven’s carrots and chocolate dip.For almost as long as I’ve known her, my best friend Georgia Riley and I have eaten this bizarre combination of good and evil. In other words, glorious, calorific food and healthy food.It started when our parents got together to discuss how badly we ate and how much we egged each other on to continue to eat wonderfully unhealthily. We had competitions to see who could eat the most chocolate before having to lie down … or worse.Our parents wanted to find ways to make us change and what better way than to coat vegetables in chocolate?I wouldn’t recommend broccoli in chocolate, but carrots and chocolate is truly life-changing.My best friend and I used to sit in her little kitchen with sticky hands, scooping up lashings of chocolate with wedges of carrot. We had to lean into the bowl, mouths as wide as our eyes, trying to catch the drips. Despite every effort, we’d still end up making a mess of the table, sometimes the floor and always our faces.That’s part of the fun, though.Every time we eat our favourite snack, we’re transported back to our childhood – trying not to giggle when the parents yell at us for making a complete mess. It’s a taste of home, for when we return from university or wherever we may have been. It’s a taste of friendship that will never grow stale. It’s the taste of happiness.Jazmin-Heaven WaringWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We love to eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number