To environmentalists and transport buffs of a certain age, yesterday's reports that the government is considering building an airport in the Thames estuary may sound eerily familiar. Forty-one years ago, another Tory administration with a boyish faith in grandiose transport projects to rescue the economy devised – and almost built – a near-identical scheme.Maplin, or "Heathograd" as it was soon mockingly known, after the then prime minister Edward Heath, was to be an artificial island just off the Essex coast near Southend. It would have multiple runways and new transport links to London, to relieve the already-notorious noise and congestion at Heathrow and help regenerate the poorer eastern side of the capital. Heath was very keen, and the plan quickly acquired faintly sci-fi features: "a brand-new jet city" to be built nearby, "tracked hovercraft" to whisk airport users to London. Speculators bought up whole streets around the planned London terminus near King's Cross.In 1973, construction started on the grey-brown Essex mudflats. A gravel "trial bank" 300 metres long was erected, to see if an airport could withstand the North Sea storms and deep estuary quicksands.Riding the rising tide of early 70s environmentalism and political militancy, local opponents of the project organised themselves flamboyantly as the Defenders of Essex, and seduced visiting reporters with picturesque arguments such as the damage likely to be done by the airport to Southend's cockle pickers. Meanwhile, in Westminster, an unholy alliance of Labour MPs and austere Thatcherites-in-the-making such as Norman Tebbit questioned the rising cost of the scheme to taxpayers.In late 1973, with the airport's official opening date slipping from 1975 to 1983, the oil crisis massively increased the cost of flying and threw the Heath government into terminal crisis. The cash-strapped incoming Labour government cancelled Maplin.Yet the dream never quite died. Backers of similar schemes since include Terence Conran, the BNP and the mayor of London, Boris Johnson. He favours siting "Boris island" in coastal Kent. But a trip to Essex might still be instructive for him. Coastal Kent and Essex have similar fickle weather, and both have Brent geese (which could be sucked into jet engines), as opponents of the new project are already pointing out. The last time I checked, the Maplin "trial bank" was still there, a bizarre yellow rampart just keeping its head above the estuary waters. Although, who knows for how long, if Boris's beloved jets keep sea levels rising.