Alejandro Ghersi opens the door of his north-London house wearing a black jumper, tailored tweed trousers and a pair of thigh-high, pointed, stiletto-heeled boots. You might think this represented quite a strong look for a quiet Friday afternoon at home, but for the artist better known as Arca – electronic producer and sometime collaborator of Björk, Kanye West, Frank Ocean and FKA twigs – it’s actually one of his more understated images.The walls and shelves of his living room are testament to this – they are decorated with photos of, and artefacts from, the videos and album covers he and visual collaborator and housemate Jesse Kanda devise together. Among them is the fearsome leather corset he sports over a kind of loincloth in the video for Anoche and the tattered matador’s jacket and agonizing-looking stilts he wears in the promo clip for Reverie, accessorised with fishnet tights, ripped to expose his bum, and – at one point – what looks like an enormous black strap-on dildo.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “As a kid, I spent a lot of my mental energy hiding who I was and attempting to fit in,” he says of his childhood in Venezuela, a country where, as he puts it “if I dressed the way I do here I’d be in physical danger”. “And as an adult, I spend a lot of energy in my work making sure that I celebrate the things I was once hiding.”The visuals are pretty extraordinary, but in fairness, so is the music they accompany. Anoche and Reverie were the first tracks to be released from Ghersi’s eponymous third album as Arca. It’s a record based around stark, unadorned recordings of Ghersi’s largely improvised vocals, with alternately harrowing and incredibly beautiful results: he is fascinated by the idea of music that sounds like a swan song, “a kind of healing balm that can ooze out from the heart in the face of strife or confusion or loss. I mean, I hope that doesn’t sound too loaded, but when I imagine a very beautiful song that’s coming from something that’s bleeding and about to die, it’s a song that gains a very special kind of weight.”Certainly, the music on Arca represents a marked contrast to that of its acclaimed predecessors, 2014’s Xen and 2015’s Mutant, where Ghersi’s voice, if it appeared at all, was warped with effects until it became completely unrecognisable, just another electronic noise in the churning soundscapes he produced. He says it was Björk who first “planted the seed” of the idea after hearing him singing during a car journey: “She just asked whether I had considered singing on my stuff,” he says. “It was just a comment that she made, a question rather than a suggestion. She doesn’t so much suggest things as much as she teases them out.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘She just asked whether I had considered singing on my stuff’: Björk and Arca perform together. Photograph: Santiago Felipe/Getty ImagesIn fact, Ghersi had begun his musical career as a vocalist, recording electronic indie pop in his teens under the name Nuuro, and becoming a star in his native Venezuela as a result. “I had this kind of whole child prodigy thing that made me flinch and recoil because I was getting all this attention, but it wasn’t fulfilling me. By the end of it I was making music for the attention of others and I was breaking almost… holy rules. At the beginning, when I started to sing, I made a point of not lying to myself about my sexuality, so I would sing with pronouns that were genderless, ‘honey’ or ‘dear’, things that were very strange for a 15-year-old to say, and I was singing in English, which was a form of me resisting my environment. But by the end of it, I was singing in Spanish and I was gendering my love songs toward the feminine and that was a private alarm that went off in my head: that’s why I killed the project. I felt like I’d betrayed myself.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I felt like I’d betrayed myself’ … Arca. Photograph: Daniel SheaHe moved to New York to study at NYU, came out (“I think the term ‘come out of the closet’ is beautiful, but it was more that I had faced myself”) and re-emerged as Arca in 2012. It was two early releases under that name, Stretch 1 and 2, with their wildly idiosyncratic take on hip-hop, that attracted the attention of Kanye West and led to Ghersi working on 2013’s Yeezus. When West’s people approached him, he bullishly sent them the most extreme and uncommercial music he had made thus far “to send a signal that I wanted to go to places like that as an artist and if we aligned, then I was curious and up for it and, if not, that was OK”. Yeezus led to further clamour for his production services – he co-produced FKA twigs’ debut album, Björk’s Vulnicura and worked on Frank Ocean’s Endless – but despite the ongoing success of his career’s second act, he says, the experience of teenage stardom still haunted him. “I had to go on a pilgrimage and almost repent for how I had betrayed myself through my voice,” he says, hence the reliance on instrumentals and the slathering on of electronic effects.Then one day, he found himself drawn to “opening my mouth again after seven years of not doing it”. Recording his own voice after all this time proved such an emotionally charged experience that he frequently ended up in tears. “There’s this kind of big, vast well of sadness inside of me that I treasure, that I’ve learned to love. A lot of songs on this record are like rivers that might end or begin there, but they all go in different places. The headspace I had to be in was hyper-fragile, like I had no skin. There’s a recurring lyric on the album, in Spanish, that’s ambiguous as to whether it’s asking someone to take my skin off, literally, physically, or whether I’m simply referring to shedding skin and growing.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Arca performs on stage in Barcelona. Photograph: Xavi Torrent/WireImageSwan songs, repentance for betraying your voice, stiletto-heeled thigh boots: as you may have gathered, Ghersi is the polar opposite of the popular image of an electronic auteur as a faceless boffin, hidden away behind a wall of equipment. He says he doesn’t often give interviews, which seems a pity: he’s thoughtful and fascinating about everything from Francis Bacon (“he said that in his paintings he was trying to depict the scream, not the horror and I find that idea so beautiful – to paint the scream is to allow the viewer to commune with a human feeling that might normally be off-limits”) to Abney Park, the non-denominational Victorian cemetery near his home “where outcasts and misfits have been buried for hundreds of years”. The graveyard at least partly inspired the sound of his new album: the ideas for Arca’s songs came as he walked around it on a daily basis. He enthuses about both its ecosystem – “they don’t chop down a tree there if it dies, they just leave it to rot, which allows for different fungus and plants and insects to thrive there, so there’s that poetry of death being allowed around death and the organic textures of decomposition that are much more beautiful than any other kind of texture” – and its role as a celebrated cruising ground.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Most of the men that cruise at Abney Park are older, from a different generation, before you could hook up with apps. It’s just so beautiful, looking someone in the eye. I have such beautiful interactions with all kinds of men that I would never meet normally, if I wasn’t there all the time. Beautiful conversations, beautiful interactions, beautiful silent moments, exchanging glances, at once kind of respectful and also insane. When you’re cruising, the look you give someone is almost like … it’s this heightened seriousness, it’s almost interchangeable: I want to fuck you or I’m going to kill you. It’s just so charged up, and I think that suits something in me that loves being there.”He says that making the album was “like a catharsis”, but he’s not sure what the future now holds. When I ask him if he wants to continue collaborating with more mainstream pop stars, he’s not so sure. “Right now what I crave is to make more personal time away from my phone, away from computers. And collaborating in my field means being in a room near equipment.”Then again, he adds, he might do exactly the opposite. “I like contradictions and I like exceptions. I don’t like rules and dogma.”Arca, the album, is out now.