The novelist Louise Rennison, who has died aged 64, was crowned “Queen of Teens” in 2008 for her young adult fiction series the Confessions of Georgia Nicolson. She wrote more than 20 books about adolescence for adolescents, but also for anyone who enjoyed revisiting the endless embarrassments, devastating humiliations, eternal boredom and, above all, the all-consuming friendships of their teenage years.Starting out as a comedy performer in the early 1990s with acclaimed one-woman shows, she also worked as a journalist. After writing a column called Dating Over 35, she was approached by publishers to write a book. Despite the very different subject matter of the column, the choice of Louise as the author of a fictional teenage diary was inspired. She used her own experience to write it. “I always wrote what I remembered made me laugh when I was that age,” she said. “I didn’t attempt to teach.” However, she did also want to show that her heroine was a thoroughly decent person.Louise’s recall was excellent. Drawing on her childhood in Leeds in the 1960s, she created teenagers – mostly girls – who were timeless: they wore their school skirts hitched up, fell in love with boys from the neighbouring school, found their parents endlessly embarrassing, and mocked any teacher that showed even a hint of being different. Underlying everything was their delightfully ignorant and mostly unfulfilled obsession with boys and their potential as “sex gods”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dancing in My Nuddy Pants by Louise Rennison. Photograph: Piccadilly PressIn Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging (1999), the first in the series, Georgia sums up the state of her mind when she writes in her diary, “I can already feel myself getting fed up with boys and I haven’t had anything to do with them yet.” Snogging, knickers, “basoomas” – Louise’s acutely observed prose made these subjects as hilarious for the readers as they were for the adolescent characters she wrote about.Louise liked teenagers and understood their immediacy and their intensity. She made their lives look like fun, despite their all-absorbing trials; their misery could be quickly cured by a laugh with a friend or a lingering look from the boy they fancied. She described her research for her books, which involved hours spent hanging around with 14-year-olds as, “Brilliant – the best fun known to humanity. It’s all boys, make-up, laughing and, er, that’s it.”That genuine affection, combined with her understanding and humour, brought her a massive readership. Her 10th Georgia Nicolson book – Are These My Basoomas I See Before Me (2009) – was followed by Withering Tights, which won the Roald Dahl Funny prize in 2010. It was the first book of the Misadventures of Tallulah Casey series that went on to include A Midsummer Tights Dream (2012) and The Taming of the Tights (2014). The stories were set in a Yorkshire Dales drama school, and Louise again used incidents from her own life.Her books were translated into more than 30 languages and sold more than 2m copies. Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging and It’s OK, I’m Wearing Really Big Knickers were adapted for film (Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging, 2008), directed by Gurinder Chadha, with a cast that included Louise’s long-term friend and fellow comedian Alan Davies.Born in Leeds, Louise was the elder daughter of Jack, who worked for a water company, and Pauline (nee Watson), a probation officer. She grew up in a close-knit family of grandparents, an uncle and aunt and cousins. Her grandmother was Irish and Louise shared with her a proud sense of identity with Irish culture. She was brought up Catholic, continued to go to church, and retained a philosophical interest in Catholicism throughout her life.Her time at Parklands high schoolgave her the basis for some of her greatest comedy characters, including Herr Kamyer, the German teacher. When she was 15, her father took a job in Wairakei, New Zealand and the whole family emigrated. Louise survived there briefly, but returned to Leeds to live with her grandmother and complete her O-levels. She retained a love of Leeds United and especially their 1970s captain, Billy Bremner, throughout her life.On leaving school, she moved to London and also spent some time travelling, before applying for a performing arts course in Brighton in the 1980s. Despite a discouraging audition, in which she was asked to act being an embryo, Louise got a place on the course.Initially, she was a reluctant performer but, encouraged by a creative group of friends in Brighton that included the performance artist Liz Aggiss and the writer and broadcaster Simon Fanshawe, she created an autobiographical one-woman show, Stevie Wonder Felt My Face. The show received critical acclaim at the Edinburgh festival in 1992 and was shown on BBC2. Louise followed this success with Bob Marley’s Gardener Sold My Friend and Never Eat Anything Bigger Than Your Head. As well as her work as a journalist and columnist, she was also a regular contributor on BBC Radio 4 to Woman’s Hour and John Peel’s Home Truths.Louise’s events at schools and festivals, following her publishing success, had all the magic of her one-woman shows. As with her writing, she had the ability to make each member of her audience feel she was addressing them directly, that she was colluding with them in a way that seemed totally genuine, as she shared an impression of herself on the edge of disaster – a broken shoe, running mascara, a long overrun deadline for delivering a book.Louise’s version of school life captivated me from the moment I was sent a proof of Angus so that I could provide a quote to put on the cover: it made me laugh out loud on the London underground and drop the pages. Then I was fortunate enough to chair many of her festival events. She did not really need a chair; it was more a question of winding her up and letting her go. She never stayed sitting down; any subject matter you offered would cause her to start up and laughingly deliver a self-deprecating story, which she would then act out. Having once heard her tell the hilarious story of being got up as a child in the middle of the night by her carousing grandmother to dance on the table to entertain friends – a story she relived by giving a fabulous display of Irish dancing –I found it irresistible to ask her to do it on every occasion. And it was as funny every time. Listeners always wanted to know more about her family and especially more about the teachers whom she imagined so vividly.Slightly built, Louise was glamorous and had a touch of naughtiness about her that teenagers loved. She had a gift for friendship, sustained through amusing emails and long hours on the phone, and a talent for making connections with people. Like her teenage fans, her friends delighted in her outrageousness. She had an immediate brightness and an ever-present laugh, but also a sophisticated dryness and elliptical sense of something unknown that was captivating.She is survived by her mother, her younger sister, Sophie, and her daughter, Kim Billing, who was born in New Zealand when Louise was in her late teens and given up for adoption. They were reunited in 1993.• Louise Rennison, comedy performer and author, born 11 October 1951; died 28 February 2016