Snapshot: Croydon to Skye on a whim and a prayerIn 1984, in our 30s, my husband Eddie and I took a risk that turned out to be the best decision we ever made. We sold our home and sank all our savings into turning a dream into reality hundreds of miles away. With our children, Steven, five, and Lindsay Ann, three, we moved from Croydon to the Isle of Skye where, without any catering experience, our plan was to open a restaurant.This photograph shows Eddie and me with the children outside the remote 100-year-old croft house we bought at Colbost, in the north-west corner of the island. It has given us our home and our living, as well as a chance to make that youthful, idealistic dream come true. The first time I saw the building, with its three chimney stacks on top, I knew it was all I’d wanted. There was a tiny, self-contained flat upstairs with low ceilings, too, where the children could sleep safely as we worked downstairs.I’d met Eddie in the early 70s when I was 22 and learning to drive – he was my instructor. In the front seats, we connected over a mutual love of food, wine, cooking and music, and were married in June 1976 on one of the hottest days of the year. As a Scot living in London, I was shocked at the poor reputation my native country had for eating out – most good cooking happened in people’s homes then.I cooked for Eddie on our second date in my tiny flat and as our bond deepened, we began to fantastise about giving up the city for life in a wilder, rural place and a bistro where we could serve home-cooked Scottish food made with ingredients from the the land and sea around us. I’d do the cooking and Eddie would run front of house and manage the business.His parents helped a lot in the early days – they actually moved to Skye. Without Nan and Grandad, we couldn’t have done it. Later, Eddie’s daughter Sarah, from his first marriage, joined us and still works with us. At first, we closed all winter then in the summer we were busy from early morning to late at night – I wrestled with guilty mother syndrome for years. Someone once described me as a “romantic with nerves of steel”, but we think back in horror at how naive we were, our lack of business acumen and how we threw ourselves into a way-of-life business on a whim and a prayer. We lived to tell the tale and 30 years later, as the restaurant thrives, we marvel at how it – and the island – has nurtured us all.Shirley SpearPlaylist: Dad’s match wins over Mum in labourMatch of the Day theme tune by Barry Stoller(Instrumental)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The first episode of Match of the Day using Barry Stoller’s theme, in 1970.Football has always been popular in our house. My dad’s a massive fan. But I recently discovered it also has a special significance for my mum.It was a chilly Saturday evening in March 1973 when Mum began to feel the early signs of labour. She was at home and let my dad know he’d better get the car out ready for the hour-long drive to the hospital.But Dad being Dad, it was never going to be that simple.The Mini stayed in the garage and he walked round the corner to my grandparents’ house to let them know their first grandchild was on the way.Knocking on the living room window, he announced he’d be taking my mum to the hospital “but only after Match of the Day had finished”.And off he trotted back home.Luckily, I was in no rush to arrive and my parents got to Scarborough hospital in plenty of time. I didn’t make an appearance until the early hours of Sunday morning.I was only told this story a few months ago when I announced my own first pregnancy. And now I can’t help but smile every time I hear the upbeat opening bars of Match of the Day.I can imagine my poor mother sitting patiently, waiting for the famous theme tune signalling the end of the programme – then picking up her bag with a small sigh and heading off to hospital.Linda HumphreysWe love to eat: Pêches au thon on summer daysIngredients1 tin of peach halves (in syrup)1 tin of tuna Simply take the peach halves and fill them with tuna: put the tuna in the middle of each peach half, where the stone would have been. Serve this fresh, with a plate of cheese, and some salad leaves. You can also mix the tuna with some mayonnaise before spooning it on the peach halves.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire’s pêches au thon.I grew up in the south of France, in a region called the Lot-et-Garonne. I had two older brothers and a little sister. We lived outside a little village, by the woods, with very few neighbours around. As the weather was so nice, we used to spend all our summer outside. We always found things to do and to play with outside.One year, my brothers organised some sort of “mini-Olympics”, with two teams of two, one girl in each team. There were different races: running around the house as fast as possible, an egg-race, the sack race, and many more. We had great fun doing these, even though I hated losing. I was always the one crying on the pictures.Mum, having grown up on a farm, in Normandy, always loved cooking, especially baking. Last week, she made an apple cake for my sister. Today, she baked a chocolate cake to bring to a dinner party. She is so good she can make a cake without any recipe at all.When we were kids, during the summer the temperatures were so high that she often didn’t feel like cooking and turning the cooker on. She used to serve salads, tabbouleh or rice salads. So Mum came up with this easy idea of the pêches au thon.It is very simple, very refreshing in the summer and ready in five minutes.I now live in the south of Ireland, near Cork. And even though the summers are not as hot as in the south of France, I still like to make this recipe: it makes me think of Mum, my family, the sun, the holidays … I can almost hear the sound of the crickets.Claire Darribehaude We’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We love to eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number