It’s good to talk. Particularly in this post-truth world. Last weekend the cast of Hamilton on Broadway tried to have a conversation with vice-president elect Mike Pence, and were told they were rude and should apologise by Donald Trump. Yet Britain’s ex-culture minister Ed Vaizey has complained that the arts suffer from “leftwing groupthink” and only talk to each other, claiming “everyone in the arts community reinforces each other’s thinking and cold-shoulders people with different points of view”.Carol Ann Duffy to collaborate in Brexit-inspired National Theatre production Broadening the conversation has never seemed so crucial in the wake of both the results of the British referendum on EU membership and the election of Donald Trump. If so many feel so disaffected, so unheard and as if their lives are not understood by those who hold the power, what can the arts do about it and how can they play a central role in changing that feeling of disempowerment within their own communities?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Mike Pence booed at Hamilton musical: ‘We are anxious you will not protect us’The arts and theatre have often been seen as elite. Vikki Heyward recently observed that “if you look like a club and behave like a club, the chances are that you are a club.” It means that if the accusation of being a club isn’t true then, as Heywood suggests, arts organisations will have to “prove it,” and that means challenging how they work, where they work and who they work with and serve, and of course who they don’t currently serve. As Rufus Norris remarked after the Brexit result, “art always responds to the time … And this has been a huge wake-up call for all of us to realise that half the country feels that they have no voice. If we are going to be a national organisation we must speak to and for the nation. Our principal response initially is to listen: to listen to that voice and art will follow from that.” Theatre needs to change the way it's accessed, and face up to unpalatable truths. Anything else is cosmetic It may indeed, and I hope it does both at the National Theatre and beyond, but what theatre in general also needs to do is to change the way it is accessed by both audiences and artists, how it is structured, how it is resourced and what kinds of work are resourced or not resourced, valued and not valued. That may well require facing up to some unpalatable truths about how theatre is perceived by the vast majority of people and how it might not just change that perception but the on the ground reality. Anything else is merely cosmetic. The purpose of change should not be to help theatres or arts organisations to survive (although that might be a byproduct and a helpful one at time of more bad news including a significant drop in lottery monies available) but to allow the greatest number of people access to the arts and the benefits – and joy – they bring to communities and individuals. One of the best moments of my theatregoing life was watching Royal de Luxe’s Sea Odyssey and seeing a woman weeping with joy that this glorious spectacle had come to her and the north Liverpool streets where she lived. Rufus Norris: ‘I’m not a visionary. I don’t have to have all the ideas’ We live in a time of unprecedented change bringing daily cultural and political disruptions, but artistic expression itself is a form of disruption. We need to embrace the possibilities change brings, not sit around hoping that eventually we will get back to normal. We need to talk about how to achieve this but we need to take action. Next year’s No Boundaries conference, taking place simultaneously in Hull and Manchester, has contributors from Rufus Norris to Jess Thom considering the nature of this disruption and how the arts can help shape a socially responsible and cohesive society in a climate of often unsettling change. The costs of attending No Boundaries can be prohibitive (which is why it tends to be dominated by those from funded institutions) but there is a ballot for free delegate passes aimed at early-career artists.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Giant Murder Investigation … a Fun Palace show in Deptford, south London, 2014. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianEarlier still in the year comes Devoted and Disgruntled, the annual event produced by Improbable Theatre using open space technology, which itself disrupts the notion of a traditional conference or talking show in the democratic way it allows everyone a voice, whether you run a major producing house or have never been to the theatre. This year it takes place in Bristol on the weekend of 14-15 January, and it feels more urgent and necessary than ever. Because one of the things that Devoted and Disgruntled is particularly good at is not just talking but inspiring action. The brilliant Fun Palaces, a movement that understands that creativity within the community can engender change, was born out of a session at Devoted and Disgruntled, and over the years it has influenced Arts Council thinking and helped to shape local and national policy.  There is never a better time to reimagine the future than in times of chaos. We must gather together. We must show up Whether you are an audience member or don’t think the arts are for you, a student, an artist, an administrator, or a critic, Devoted and Disgruntled is a place to share what you know, discuss and debate, reframe your own thinking and start to bring about change that extends beyond theatre itself. As Improbable’s Phelim McDermott says: “We have the means to reimagine the future. There is never a better time to do that than in times of chaos. We must gather together. We must connect. We must show up.” If theatre and the arts really want to step up in uncertain times, we will. 