 MondayThere are only four performances left at the National Theatre in London for Annie Baker’s Pulitzer prize-winning The Flick, which finishes on Wednesday. It’s worth queuing for day seats to catch one of them. This week you should try not to miss out on People, Places and Things which winds up at Wyndham’s on Saturday. Denise Gough’s portrayal of an actor with addiction problems will linger long in the mind. It’s also your last chance this week for Stef Smith’s Human Animals at the Royal Court. Hair Peace, Victoria Melody’s examination of where her hair extensions came from, arrives at Battersea Arts Centre.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Cuttin’ ItTuesdayCharlene James’s heartfelt, heartbreaking and unmissable Cuttin’ It, which is about FGM in the UK, is at Birmingham Rep. The hidden histories of LGBT communities in London in the 1980s are uncovered in Tom Marshman’s Kings Cross (Remix) at Camden People’s theatre today and tomorrow. The Wardrobe Ensemble wind up their tour of 1972: The Future of Sex at the Drum in Plymouth. Sabrina Mahfouz’s play-cum-gig With a Little Bit of Luck finishes its tour at the Roundhouse in London.WednesdayAt the Royal Exchange in Manchester, Sarah Frankcom directs All I Want is One Night, which is about 1930s Paris, where cabaret sensation and sex symbol Suzy Solidor thrilled audiences nightly with her performances of erotic lesbian songs. There’s loads of good stuff in the London international festival of theatre (Lift) including – at the Barbican’s Pit – Late Night, created by Greece’s Blitz Theatre, which speaks to a Europe of economic and philosophical collapse. The popular Cornish company Miracle Theatre set out on a summer tour with their version of Calderon’s play Life’s a Dream, which is at Mount Pleasant Eco Park in Porthtowan tonight. Maxim Gorky’s Vassa Zheleznova is transposed to the 1990s Liverpool dockers’ strike in a new version at Southwark Playhouse. Erica Whyman’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream: A Play for the Nation returns to the Royal Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Circa come to Tower Hamlets Cemetery Park for Lift. Photograph: John AngersonThursdayAs part of Lift, Alain Platel and Frank Van Laecke bring the exquisite En Avant, Marche! to Sadler’s Wells; Circa take you into a graveyard in Tower Hamlets for Depart, and Open for Everything at the Royal Court offers a journey through Europe’s Roma communities. The all-female Eggs Collective are at West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, with Late Night Love, which examines the realities behind romantic myth. Rona Munro’s stage version of Watership Down is at the Watermill near Newbury. Kneehigh’s The Flying Lovers of Vitebsk brings Mark and Bella Chagall to Shakespeare’s Globe in London.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for Ross & RachelFriday and the weekendMichelle Terry dons her armour to play Henry V at the Regent’s Park Open Air theatre. James Fritz’s Edinburgh hit, the anti-romcom Ross & Rachel, is at the Marlowe in Canterbury at the start of a UK tour. The sound and light performance Furious Folly, a first world war centenary art commission by 14-18 Now, is at Magdalen College School, Oxford. On Saturday, this year’s third major revival of King Lear begins at Bristol Old Vic, with Tom Morris directing Timothy West in the title role. At Shakespeare’s Globe, Iqbal Khan’s revival of Macbeth is in previews. On Saturday, Proto-type are at the Civic in Barnsley with A Machine They Are Secretly Building as part of Yorkshire Festival, which has an eclectic programme of performance. On Sunday, Buzzcut are in residence at the Live Art Bistro in Leeds.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for A Machine They Are Secretly Building