The distinguished American composer Aaron Copland, who will be 60 this year, is in England for two weeks to conduct two concerts of his own music – one was in the Royal Festival Hall on Tuesday, and the other will be a studio-concert for the B.B.C. on Saturday. He has just been to Russia to perform his own and other American music, and next month he will fly to Japan with the Boston Symphony Orchestra before returning to England to appear at the Aldeburgh Festival.Copland is, and has been for many years, the most admired of the relatively few serious American composers who have made any reputation outside their own country, and the only one who is known by his whole output, or at least by a large and representative part of it, instead of by two or three works only. The simple explanation of this, though it may not be an adequate justification of our ignorance of other American composers, is that in nearly every work by Copland we can instantly recognise an original imagination, a unique musical personality, such as is not revealed in any of the few other American works that have made their way over here.  It amazes me every time I come to England that the critics & public never seem to make any progress with American musicAaron Copland Copland does not like this isolation, and does not think it just. It was this subject that provoked his most vigorous protest, an almost despairing outburst, when I asked him what other composers, especially among the younger ones, we ought to know about. “It amazes me every time I come to England that the critics and public here never seem to make any progress with American music. Every time you hear a piece you say, ‘We ought to hear more of this,’ but when the next piece comes along you don’t get any farther. You must have heard quite a lot of American music by now, but you never seem able to connect what you hear with what you’ve already heard. It’s as though we have to start all over again every time, as if you’d never heard a note of our music before.”Copland has always been a lively propagandist for his fellow–composers, and in his earlier days he was, as they were, militantly American. Discussing change in the American musical scene since then, he said, “in the twenties we all felt very much out of things, and wanted to create a musical life and style of our own. At that time jazz seemed to offer a lot of possibilities, and some of us went in for that.” His own Piano Concerto, written in 1921, which was heard for the first time in England on Tuesday, is one of the outstanding works of that period in jazz style.) “But that’s all finished now. None of the younger composers ever gives a thought to being American, and there’s not much direct trace of jazz now – though I did go back towards the old style in my Clarinet Concerto (composed for Benny Goodman in 1948). Not that the jazz influence is dead. One young composer, Gunther Schuller, is very keen again on a marriage of jazz and serious music, and Lukas Foss, who has just been in Russia with me, has experimented with improvised ensemble-playing in a ‘serious’ idiom. And, of course, the current now flows the other way as well, with the jazz groups themselves trying to introduce ‘classical’ methods and vocabulary into their music.”After the jazz phase came what American critics have called Copland’s “abstract” period, when he wrote several important instrumental works in a style that he himself calls “severe” (the Piano Variations, Short Symphony, Statements). This lasted until about 1935, when he began working simultaneously in two styles – a “popular” one, based on less aggressively popular material than that of the jazz period (El Salon Mexico, the ballets “Billy the Kid,” “Rodeo,” “Appalachian Spring,” the opera “The Tender Land,” and many film scores), the other a more “personal” style, less tough and more lyrical than that of the “abstract” period (Piano Sonata, Violin Sonata, Third Symphony, Piano Quartet, Piano Fantasy). At their extremes, in, say, “Billy the Kid” and the Piano Quartet, the two styles are widely separated. “Billy the Kid,” in musical character, is like a Bernstein-plus “musical,” while the Piano Quartet, which is one of several works in which Copland has made use of serial methods of composition, is, in spite of its lyrical tone and relative brevity, a concentrated and fairly exacting work. Between other works (say, “Appalachian Spring” on the popular side, and on the other side the Third Symphony, which has a solemnly public rather than a personal tone), the difference is much less marked, though still unmistakable.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ballet dancers Agnes de Mille and Frederic Franklin in ‘Rodeo’, a ballet scored by Aaron Copland and choreographed by de Mille, New York City, 1942. Photograph: Constance Bannister Corp/Getty ImagesIt is particularly since the war that the gap has narrowed, as Copland has left behind not only jazz but also the “cowboy” style, and has turned to more homely folk-material for his popular works (particularly “Appalachian Spring” and “The Tender Land”), while in the “personal” works he has begun using more extended melodic themes, instead of the terse motivic ones of his earlier music – though the latest serious work, the Piano Fantasy, where he again uses serial technique, is formidable in language as well as in form. Leonard Bernstein claims to find “a synthesis of the composer’s complicated and simple styles” as early as 1941, in the Piano Sonata, but most listeners would find this fairly remote from the popular works, even in the bouncily rhythmical quick middle movement. Copland does not much like this division of his output at all, and when asked whether he found any difficulty in changing from one idiom to another, or found it easier to compose the more popular works, said he did not think of them in those terms.“It’s just a matter of choosing the right sort of material, and then composing with it. Even in a popular work you can write what you like as long as you can find the right context for it ­– in a film score, for example, where for a particularly dramatic scene you may be able to write dissonances that many listeners in a concert hall would protest against, but in the cinema nobody turns a hair. In the film score for ‘The Heiress’ for instance, I was able to use a discarded passage from my Piano Variations, one of my most severe early works. As for whether one kind of music is easier to compose than another, film music is naturally easier, because it is nearly all a matter of comparatively short entries, so there is rarely any problem of how to continue with an idea.”Not that continuation ever seems any problem to Copland. Several of his instrumental works are on an unusually large scale, and the Piano Fantasy in particular is an astonishing formal achievement ­– a closely unified single movement lasting half an hour, without a moment’s failure of inspiration. This is the most recent of three major works for piano solo by Copland, in a period when few composers even those who like him are first-rate pianists themselves, have written much for piano solo.“I’d like to have written more,” he said, in reply to a comment on this. I like the piano, and I use it a lot when I compose. I can’t imagine just sitting at a table and composing.” Most of his chamber music is with piano too (a trio, quartet, sextet, and a sonata for violin and piano). I commented on the surprising choice of the piano quartet as a medium, which has attracted so few composers and produced so few good works besides those of Mozart and Brahms. “I don’t see anything unattractive about it,” he said, “though it’s more Fauré’s quartets that I think of.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aaron Copland attending a rehearsal, October 1948. Photograph: Michael Rougier/Time & Life Pictures/Getty ImageNot long ago he transcribed his early Piano Variations for orchestra. I asked how he had been able to bring himself to do this with a work that had become a classic of modern piano music. Did he hope to bring it to a bigger public?“At the time I wrote it, of course, the idea of orchestrating it would have seemed outrageous. But after thirty years you can take a more detached view of your own work. And it’s good to have an eleven-minute orchestral work in a severe style. I got the idea from Dallapiccola’s orchestrating his Quaderno Musicale for the Louisville Orchestra. They asked me for a work too, and as I didn’t feel ready to compose a new one just at that time. I suggested doing the same thing, and they agreed.” I don’t think the Symphonic Ode has been properly appreciated yet. Personally I think it’s one of my best worksAaron Copland What about the more curious transcription of the Short Symphony as a sextet? “I did that because nobody was performing the symphony. It had to wait ten years for its first broadcast at home, and twice as long for a public performance there. The sextet version did better, though even with that several groups abandoned it after starting rehearsals, because of the difficulty.” I don’t have any special method or theory. I wish I had; it would make composing easier.Aaron Copland Were there any other of his works that he felt had not had their due? “I don’t think the Symphonic Ode has been properly appreciated yet. Personally I think it’s one of my best works. I’d have liked to conduct it here this trip, but it needs too much rehearsal time.” (Copland wrote this work in 1929 for the fiftieth anniversary of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and revised it in 1955 for their seventy-fifth season, in the hope of giving it a new start, but its progress is still slow.)On the technical ingredients and methods of his music, like many composers, Copland is laconic. Much of the distinction of it lies in his weighty, sometimes thick but always clear harmony, and I suggested that one of the striking characteristics of his more “personal” works was the definition of tonality without much use of pure or complete triads. He did not think so.“I don’t have any special method or theory. I wish I had; it would make composing easier. The most I could say is that I’m careful about spacing, about what I leave out, and that even in the works where I use twelve-note methods the harmonic thought, although inevitably different from that of my other works, is always tonal.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Guardian, 21 April 1960.