Theresa May has made meritocracy a clear feature of her blueprint so far. She used the word around 20 times in her speech setting out the expansion of grammar schools. So where does this word come from? It may surprise you that the sociologist Michael Young, who coined the term, didn’t use it to describe a good thing. In his book on the subject, written in 1958, he warns that “the rise of the meritocracy” is a recipe for disaster.The argument goes something like this: take a society such as the UK, where our education system is riddled with class and race inequalities. In the name of meritocracy, ignore these inequalities, and instead pathologically test and grade students. Then enable those with power and status to design this system so their attributes are valued and their kids have more access to resources.Grammar schools are not just socially divisive – they’re deeply ineffective | Sam Freedman You end up with a system like the one we have. Except now, those in power feel justified in treating those they govern like dirt owing to a (misguided) belief that they are intellectually and morally superior to the rest.In this dystopian world you can imagine a politician making a statement that uses IQ to justify rising income inequality. “It is surely relevant to a conversation about equality that as many as 16% of our species have an IQ below 85, while about 2% have an IQ above 130.” Sadly, we don’t have to imagine. This isn’t a line from Young’s novel: it’s from a speech Boris Johnson made in 2013. As Professor Danny Dorling gleefully points out, Johnson has missed the point of how IQ is measured. It’s a relative scale, so half the population must have an IQ above 100. It follows that, by definition, 16% always score below 85.Johnson has unwittingly demonstrated the paradox of the meritocracy rather well. He uses IQ as a justification for high rewards – while simultaneously being highly rewarded but showing low IQ by failing to understand how it works.In Young’s dystopia, people like Johnson – the ruling class – live lives so detached from everyone else that social order breaks down, culminating in riots. Rather spookily, Young called this period of social unrest the May Uprisings.If you are worried how close this satire sounds to reality, you are not alone. One of the last articles Young wrote before he died in 2002, in the Guardian, expressed annoyance about how the term has been used, and concern for the future. He was right to be worried. I am worried too, and I feel part of this debate.Confession time: I went to a grammar school. I started secondary education at a private school. It was the 80s. The factory my father worked in closed and he was made redundant, so I moved to the local comprehensive.This was a big change for me. At private school I had been told I had a gift for English and creative writing. I was ranked top of the class. At the comprehensive, creativity didn’t seem to be a priority. Spelling was a priority, and apparently mine was below par.At my private school I’d come top in the year for English, history and maths. At the comprehensive I was told I was poor at all these and would be entered for foundation-level GCSEs. The best I could get was a grade C. And I wouldn’t have been alone – results at this school were way below average, before it was put into special measures a few years later. Just before I started GCSEs, a grammar school advertised places. I got one.So I benefited from selection, but I can’t just see myself as the person who benefited. Because, prior to that, I was also the person who was left behind. I saw how thin the line was between my two potential life outcomes. I’m always grateful for being able to see this line and that I was lucky to end up on the side of it I did.The prime minister wants to end the ban on new grammar schools. Quite right too | Robert McCartney I’ve been thinking again about this period in my life, now that I have started performing standup, as the comedy industry is a meritocracy of sorts. OK, there is racism and sexism in some comedy club booking policies. Starting in comedy requires money, and some people feel more entitled from birth to stand on a stage and command attention. But once you get past these hurdles and on to the stage, this is where a meritocracy starts.Funny people do well. Still, there are some exceptions. Some comics are ripping it up in clubs but will never win comedy awards or get on TV because they don’t meet the current definition of “good comedy”, set by the (often all-white, all-middle-class, lefty-liberal) judging panel. These gatekeepers ensure homogeneity and, arguably, conformity, because they and the judging criteria are the same.Selective education has a similar problem. Education doesn’t need more selection leading to more conformity, more of the same. We need our education system to work in the opposite direction: less time judging, more time building confidence and skills. Then we might have the more open and fair society that we want.