The head of the UK’s largest body of professional librarians has warned that we could be “heading for a new low” after details emerged of Swindon’s plans to hand over responsibility for almost all of its 15 libraries by 2020.Swindon borough council currently runs 15 libraries, but has said that due to “financial pressures it is no longer affordable to run the library service in its current format”. It needs to cut its library budget by around £1.5m, from its current level of £2.6m, by 2020. It has now proposed that it continues to fund just its central library, with further facilities to be “self-managed, resourced and operated by communities, partners or volunteers”. The announcement comes just before National Libraries Day on 6 February.'Speak up before there's nothing left': authors rally for National Libraries Day According to local paper the Swindon Advertiser, council chiefs believe they will find enough volunteers to avoid closing branches, “but have accepted there will need to be a ‘rationalisation’ of services if no one is found at a particular site”.Swindon council said of the cut in libraries spending that “while such a reduction is dramatic, it is felt to be a realistic basis on which to plan for a future service, as part of an overall approach to community-based services”. It added that that “the council needs to balance its statutory duties to provide a comprehensive and efficient library service within this significantly reduced financial envelope”. “The service has to be radically transformed to meet that challenge,” the council added.A consultation about the plans is likely to start next Wednesday, according to the Swindon Advertiser. “What we are going to do is start to have a conversation about what future library provision will look like,” councillor Garry Perkins, the cabinet member for libraries, told the paper.Joanna Trollope: 'UK cannot afford to close one single public library' “We have to do something about the budget, so rather than just cut the service we want to speak with people about what they want going forward. The way people use libraries has changed over the years, so we have to change to reflect that. I see this as a way bringing the library service forward. We have given ourselves plenty of time, so for now the closure of libraries is not something we are looking at.”But Nick Poole, chief executive of the Chartered Institute of Library Professionals, urged Swindon to reconsider. Cilip has recently launched the My Library By Right campaign. Backed by a range of major writers including Joanna Trollope and Andrew Motion, it asks the government to “fulfil their statutory responsibilities to taxpayers” in providing a comprehensive public library service, and is warning that closures could be against the law.“I fear that we are heading for a new low. If councils are unable to meet their legal obligations to provide statutory library services, HM government has a duty to step in and intervene to protect people’s rights,” said Poole.“Cutting qualified staff and local services flies in the face of public interest and runs completely counter to the ambition for local economic growth, prosperity, healthy, happy families and children who can reach their potential. We urge the council to revisit its plans, and to recognise that properly staffed and run libraries are an investment that will be crucial to this vision.”