As darkness descends over the imposing green mountains on the outskirts of Mexico City, Luz Reality, a 32-year-old rapper, steps under a faded orange tarp and through a metal security door into the underground venue. Though a veteran of the city’s hip-hop scene, she admits she still gets unnerved by the constant threat of assault in the areas around Ecatepec’s clandestine concert venues.In recent months, this barrio has been plagued by a grisly series of abductions and murders. In one case, a woman was found burned on an empty patch of grass. The victim somehow survived the brutal attack and was still alive when police found her, but died later from her injuries.As is almost always the case in Ecatepec, the murder went unsolved. People here know better than to expect investigations and arrests – but lately the neighbourhood has been on edge. Frustrated with the violence, residents have banded together to beat and publicly shame alleged criminals on several occasions.Tonight, Luz couldn’t even find a taxi driver willing to drop her off at the venue for her show: an empty Ecatepec lot. She had to walk from the main avenue down desolate streets where kidnappings can happen unnoticed.The neighbourhood has become regarded as Mexico’s “capital of violence against women”. Luz knows the stories about women disappearing, but tries not to let fear limit her life. Since 2012, on average more than one woman has been killed every week in Ecatepec, and last year this violence escalated.The dynamic is similar to what happened in in the northern border city of Ciudad Juárez, just south of the Texas border, in the early 1990s. Earlier this month a Spanish woman was kidnapped from a wealthy area of the city, killed and dumped in a canal in the state of Mexico. Between 2005 and 2015, no fewer than 3,604 women were killed in the state of Mexico, where Ecatepec is located. It’s an alarming trend – yet each individual murder is just another statistic that barely gets mentioned in the capital’s biggest newspapers.Not formally part of Mexico City, Ecatepec is a residential area that has grown in fits and bursts. A generation of people from the countryside came to settle here in the 1980s and 90s, trying to carve a niche for themselves on the fringe of Mexico’s rapidly transforming, globalised economy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A man hangs a banner showing photographs of missing and dead women in Ecatepec. Photograph: Henry Romero/ReutersThe streets surrounding the venue hosting Luz and her friends tonight are a shabby agglomeration of dull-grey cinderblock buildings, most of which were improvised one storey at a time. In contrast, the rappers look like fireworks of fluorescent pink and purple, their gold watches and neon attire shimmering over the sea of cement. With the bass beat thumping, Luz psyches herself up for her performance. She eyes a cadre of teenagers in t-shirts holding plastic cups of beer and Buchanan’s whisky (the local favourite), who form a semi-circle in front of the small, second-storey stage. The crowd is young and riled up. In the back corner, a few scruffy men cut up lines of cocaine on a cell-phone. Inside the cement-block walls, the thumping music creates a warm refuge from the world outside. I was proud of Ecatepec. But now, if I had the chance to leave, I would. I don’t see a future here.Luz Reality “We’re women and we deserve respect!” Luz shouts into her microphone.One of Mexico’s best-established female rappers, she has made a career out of bringing positivity to a negative environment. As she steps out to join her three rapper friends in the centre of the second-floor stage, Alix Toxik (Luz’s skinny, ebullient group-mate) grabs the microphone and shouts: “Ladies In Tha Hood in the casa!”Alix’s beet-red hair and gold chains dance as if they are pulsating with an electric current. Then Luz steps out towards the edge of the stage and shouts: “In Mexico there are a lot of femicidios so this song is called For My Girls.”As a manic, minimalist beat streams out of the DJ’s speakers, Maya La Insana, Luz’s heavyset partner in rhyme, bobs her head and unleashes a rapid-fire volley of lyrics: “I don’t deal with fiction, just the truth. We listen and we stay quiet. It’s better to run your mouth … Where are the people who want to criticise me? [The people] who want to finish me off?” In the crowd, a menacing, broad-shouldered man in black clothes and sun-glasses holds up his smart phone to take video, while a group of teenage boys rises from their refuge along the cement wall to watch the performance.To the side of the stage, Luz and Alix dance frenetically to the energetic beat, jumping up to rap in unison for the song’s chorus: “I still help my girls in the street; I still help my girls on the stage!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   High heel shoes are seen in front of a cross outside the Municipal Palace of Ecatepec during a protest against the murders of women. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty ImagesEven with a few technical difficulties, the show is a welcome respite from what has been a difficult period in Ecatepec. A few weeks earlier, an entire family was dismembered and stuffed into bags in the railyard that runs through the neighbourhood. In another incident, two policemen were killed during their lunch break.For 20 years, though, rap has helped Luz process the world around her. She first heard about it as a teen in the early 1990s. Her friends’ families came from different parts of Mexico, so hip-hop became the common chord that tied them together.****Ecatepec exploded as a byproduct of Mexico’s shift from a corrupt, state-led development strategy based on protectionism and nepotism to the current paradigm of neoliberal economic policy and export promotion. Subsidies that had supported small-time agriculture were dismantled, so poor, rural residents flooded down from the mountains into the valley in Mexico City.As Mexico’s economy dipped into crisis and nearly collapsed, the newcomers found themselves in a precarious position. Families built small shacks using found materials and the neighbourhood expanded up into the hills. In 1995 Mexico’s economy imploded, leaving hundreds of thousands of workers competing for jobs in the informal economy – hawking sodas at stoplights, selling tacos from carts or working as foot soldiers in Mexico City’s expanding criminal enterprises. As kidnappings surged to unprecedented levels and every day was marked by multiple homicides, it became known as the world’s most dangerous city.In this environment, Luz and her friends learned to navigate the streets, shopping for hip-hop cassettes at open-air markets called tianguis and finding solace in the bravado of early-90s gangster rap. Cypress Hill were Luz’s favourite group; the lyrics helped her take ownership over a difficult environment.Where I’m from, the [guns] be smoking / I’ll be damned if you think I’m jokin’ / Know that I’ll come with the static, erratic, .45 automatic. It’s is a Cypress Hill verse that was written about LA, but also reflected the mentality in Ecatepec. Luz was inspired; she started penning her own raps to Cypress Hill beats, but tried to find a way to forge her own version. “We’re not chicanas [Mexican-Americans],” she explains.As the decades passed, families have replaced cardboard and sheet metal with sturdy cement bricks and added multiple storeys to their homes. In a parallel trend, Mexico City has seen a boom of real-estate investment and a new wave of renovation. Now the city centre is filled with the hulking skeletons of new skyscrapers, and upper-middle class neighbourhoods are enjoying a surge of new construction and rehabilitation.As infrastructure and security have improved, Mexico City has become recognised as a major hub of cultural activity. The New York Times named the capital as the top place to visit in 2016. The situation on the periphery of the city, however, is less stable.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Luz Reality stands next to graffiti on the outskirts of Mexico City. Photograph: Nathaniel Parish Flannery“Now in the parks there are drug addicts, robberies,” Luz explains. “Most people go to Mexico City to work; they don’t work here.” The US Chamber of Commerce in Mexico ranks Ecatepec as the second most challenging security environment for businesses in the country. According to this analysis, the suburb trails only Reynosa, Tamaulipas – the border city that serves as a base for the notorious Zeta cartel – in terms of security problems.Ecatepec has evolved since the early 90s, but in many ways it hasn’t improved. “Even though there are malls now, they don’t help. It’s ugly and violent, and is no place to raise kids,” Luz says. “I was proud of Ecatepec. [But now,] if I had the chance to leave, I would. I don’t see a future here,” she says. After 7pm you don’t go out. Not in car, walking, or in taxiLuz Reality A number of multinational companies have built new factories in Ecatepec, but Luz has never worked at any of them. “The shifts are long and pay is low. To work you have to go to Mexico City or find self-employment selling things at the markets,” she says.After she saw a female colleague get kidnapped, Luz left a job teaching kindergarten for a post at a small stationery store near the main plaza. While she has friends who have found jobs in IT and marketing departments in the steel and glass skyscrapers downtown, Luz herself – like nearly 60% of the women in Ecaptepec – works in the sprawling, informal economy, in a job that doesn’t include benefits.Ecatepec is now home to 1.6 million people, more than half of whom live below the poverty line. Too many aspects of life here still feel improvised and incomplete. There may police patrols on the wide throughways, but on the side streets security is scarce.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Luz pulls on a pair of headphones while recording a rap video in the main plaza in Ecatepec. Photograph: Nathaniel Parish FlanneryA few weeks after the concert, Luz meets up with bandmates Alix and Maya at a pizza place. The women have broken their self-imposed curfew to have a celebratory dinner to mark the end of a successful day recording a video.In the afternoon, they revel in the activity in the bustling square, rapping to the camera in the golden afternoon light. The plaza brings together old men who have spent decades working in the fields with young parents taking their toddlers to watch the clowns, with teens on BMX bikes and skateboards. As is the case in small towns in the mountains, Ecatepec’s main plaza is the centre of community life: “It’s representative of Ecaptec’s culture. You’ve got the skaters, the rappers, the B-boys,” Luz explains.As night sets in, Luz and her band-mates bounce in front of big graffiti murals down the street from Luz’s house, using a friend’s car headlights to illuminate the last few shots of the day. With the camera off, the swagger subsides quickly.The pizza restaurant’s windows and doors are made of heavy steel bars that look strong enough to stop a truck from crashing through. Although a few people gather at a nearby taco restaurant and a food truck still stands down the road, mostly the streets are empty.Luz ties Ecatepec’s hip-hop culture to the cholo culture popularised by Mexican-Americans in early-90s California, Cypress Hill among them. She and the rest of her generation are still wedded to these traditions of DJing, rapping, graffiti art, and breakdancing. But she fears the neighbourhood’s younger generation is more tuned in rapping as a form of aggression – notably in rap battles – and, worse, as an ancillary activity to drug dealing. The younger rappers are less interested in painting murals or organising dance competitions and far keener to embrace criminal culture.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A grey graffiti mural in the Ecatepec neighbourhood. Photograph: Nathaniel Parish FlanneryWaiting for her pizza to arrive, Luz explains: “What I want is young people to know me. I think there are fewer rappers, fewer graffiti artists now.” She sees her neighbourhood’s cholo culture fading away. “It’s dying,” she says.The hard-edged bravado of the new generation may be more in tune with the current reality of Ecatepec, where drug gangs recruit teens and local mob bosses have turned the neighbourhood into a depot for the retail narco trade. The crime wave has overrun the local police and created a new environment of violence and impunity.“It’s changed a lot. Before it was safe, now it’s the most dangerous municipality in Mexico state. It’s the worst place in Mexico for femicidios,” Luz explains. On 7 August, the body of a young woman was found near a canal in the nearby town of Zumpango. The victim had been raped and tortured. “There’s a lot of gender-based violence. I think it’s getting worse,” Luz says.****The pizza parlour is empty and playing loud banda music, but Alix, usually so exuberant, lowers her voice: “As a woman, when I have to go to the Río de los Remedios neighbourhood, I’m scared. I have amigas who live there. They say that girls coming out of the subway there get kidnapped and taken away in cars. They disappear.”The subway stop is next to a highway and few tarp-covered stands selling bootleg CDs. From the stairs that lead down from the train tracks, visitors can see a long expanse of cement buildings and only a few patches of green in the distance.“It takes a lot of risk to go on the road,” says Luz softly. “They’ve taken a lot of women.” The attacks on women have been well documented by the local tabloids. In December 2015, police discovered the body of a 20-year-old, raped, and beaten to death in an empty lot in Ecatepec. In March, 2016 one of Ecatepec’s own police officers fled town after torturing and killing his own girlfriend.Taking a moment to cut and serve slices of pizza, Luz says: “I think it’s worse than ever.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An activist wearing rubbish bags and rope, to replicate the way female murder victims are found, takes part in a protest on the banks of the Remedios River, where corpses often wash up. Photograph: Nathaniel Parish FlanneryShe lives in a gated community with a guard who watches through a heavy metal gate. Inside, residents have built fences to separate their houses from the street, some girded with razor wire. Outside of her neighbourhood, Luz feels unsafe: “After 7pm you don’t go out. Not in car, walking, or in taxi,” she says. “You can go to the supermarket and the taxi driver will rob you.”Her brother was carjacked right in front of the security post at the entrance to her neighbourhood. “They put a gun on him and took everything he had, even his gum,” Luz explains.But she continues to grind, penning lyrics and recording videos. One of her new songs, I’m Still On My Feet, sums up her attitude. Over a bouncing, bass-driven beat she raps: “After everything I’ve been through, I’m still on my feet. I don’t let myself get beaten.”She tries to stay positive but the situation in Ecatepec is heart-breaking: “[Now] it’s worse. There are more femicidios than Ciudad Juárez, more kidnappings.”.In some cases, the violence is meted out by partners and ex-partners. In others it’s organised crime, kidnapping women to force them to work in the sex trade. Other times random assaults are carried out by gangsters in a realm of impunity.Hope in the heart of apache territory: Mexico City's Deportivo Chavos Banda On 4 September, infuriated residents banded together and cornered two thieves, beating them severely before police arrived. Luz knows that many neighbourhoods now hang signs warning would-be criminals that burglars will be lynched. The vigilantism doesn’t make her feel safer.When she’s home, inside her house, behind the security gate at the entrance to the street, Luz feels safer Ecatepec is her cradle, but also her prison. “It’s stagnating – I think it will get worse. It’s like love-hate: I was born here, but I’d like to leave. I don’t want my son to grow up here.”Luz isn’t the only local artist trying to draw attention to the violence in Ecatepec. A few weeks earlier, a group of activists had staged a demonstration by the murky Remedios River that cuts through the neighbourhood. Wearing trash bags around their bodies and rope around their arms (the accoutrements routinely found tied to corpses that wash up on the river’s shore), they shouted in protest: “The river has become a watery grave!” “Women are kidnapped and left here in trash bags!” “Ecatepec is a tomb!”Meanwhile the traffic zoomed by on the freeway next to the canal, truck drivers honking as they passed, drowning out the women’s voices. Then a police car stopped on the side of the highway. An officer walked up to the demonstration, took a few pictures on his cell phone, and walked back down the hill to his car.“There are thousands of women who have disappeared. We are asking for justice!” a woman shouted. The officer didn’t respond. Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook to join the discussion