FriendsWhat’s this? A reunion?Only Matthew Perry was missing at this Friends photo op when director James Burrows got the cast together. Look how delighted Jennifer Aniston is to be there.Body of evidence “For a group so culturally marinated in ‘fun’, this gaggle looks disconnected and awkward, like they were all thrown into shot from different planets,” says body-language expert and author Judi James. “By keeping her seat at the front while the others fan out behind her, Jennifer looks like the doyenne of the show or that she’s gone on to bigger and better things. Her expression suggests mild bemusement, with one brow raised and a complete lack of teeth showing in her smile. Matt (LeBlanc) looks dominant and he also looks like the one who’s grown up and grown older happily with the most genuine, confident smile of them all.”Chances of doing a Gilmore Girls?There’s more chance of Horrible Bosses 3 winning an Oscar for best picture.My So-Called Life      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crossing Jordan … Claire Danes and Jared Leto. Photograph: Dave M Benett/Getty ImagesWhat’s this? A reunion?If the days when Angela Chase gazed longingly at curtain-haired lust bomb Jordan Catalano give you, like, all the feels, stand by for a Claire Danes and Jared Leto moment from 2010.Body of evidence“Did these two ever really get on?” asks James. “This pose suggests a complicated relationship that’s being concealed via some over-congruent posing. Claire’s open-mouth ‘surprise’ smile suggests Jared was the last person she expected to see at the event, but with her teeth so heavily on display next to his face and the way her eyes skid off to the side of his head she looks a little bit predatory, as though she’s moving in to eat him. She’s also about to touch his scarf, but in response he’s offering very little other than a wan smile and averted eye gaze. This might have just been a ‘moment’ but there’s nothing here to suggest authentic delight.”Chances of doing a Gilmore Girls?Low. Sadly, Leto’s mind probably isn’t on digging out that leather choker and plaid shirt once more.The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air  Fresh eyes … including Will Smith (pictured centre, naturally). Photograph: Instagram/therealalfonsoribeiroWhat’s this? A reunion?Fans’ lives got flipped, turned upside down when the cast, including Will Smith, reunited for a charity lunch.Body of evidence“You’d know Will Smith was the dominant player in this group from the fact the pose has been built up around him,” says James. “With his arms on top in the hug he’s looking like the protective alpha here and although Daphne Etta Maxwell (who played Aunt Viv) is reciprocating with a wide grin, Karyn Parsons (Hilary) prefers to keep a polite gap between her torso and Smith’s, suggesting either respect or a sliver of actual frostiness.”Chances of doing a Gilmore Girls?This one could happen.Mad Men      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mad for it … Kiernan Shipka, January Jones and Jon Hamm. Photograph: Frazer Harrison/Getty Images/AFIWhat’s this? A reunion?It’s a Draper dinner without resentment and smashed crockery: January Jones and Jon Hamm reunited with their screen daughter Kiernan Shipka at the American Film Institute awards.Body of evidence“Kiernan grew up on the set of Mad Men so it’s natural to see her working the pose with an elegant smile as she leans into her on-screen mum and dad,” says body-language expert James. “January looks far happier than she ever did on screen and her lean sideways gives Kiernan some space to pose as well as tilting her towards Jon Hamm in a way that suggests the pair still get on well,” says James. But it’s Hamm who’s the joker here. “He’s far funnier than Don Draper and this raised-eyebrow expression, plus the way he’s mirroring Kiernan with his pose, suggests he’s still keeping the three of them amused.”Chances of doing a Gilmore Girls?The Drapers look happy enough, but that doesn’t mean Don’s ready to come out of his meditative state just yet.Dawson’s Creek      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Up the Creek … Michelle Williams and James Van Der Beek. Photograph: Todd Williamson/Getty Images/Amazon StudiosWhat’s this? A reunion?Legendarily verbose teenagers Jen and Dawson cosy up 13 years later as Oscar- Bafta- and Golden Globe-nominated Michelle Williams bumps into James “Where is he now?” Van Der Beek.James Van Der Beek: 'I lived in fear of teenage girls' Body of evidence“Thirteen years is a long time in the world of celebrity and although James’s pose suggests a touch of grinning resignation, Michelle’s rather rigidly over-performed grin and head-tilt look far less relaxed and playful,” says James. “With his hand stuffed in his pocket and only his upper teeth showing in the smile, he looks happy enough to be there but Michelle’s wide-eyed rictus is giving a lot less away to the cameras in terms of genuine enjoyment.”Chances of doing a Gilmore Girls?Well, Jen’s dead, Joshua Jackson (Pacey) is in The Affair and Katie Holmes is Joey no more. Somebody check if James Van Der Beek is free?