Back in the 1880s, the evening train from Middlesbrough would often stop right in front of a stately house in Redcar called Red Barns. Out would step Hugh Bell, the cultured and wealthy head of a sprawling iron, steel and chemical empire. As often as not, waiting to greet him as he strode up the garden path would be the daughter who would later find fame as an explorer, archaeologist, writer and spy.Once a book-lined and pet-filled family home, Red Barns has fallen on hard times. But a campaign has now been launched to buy it and convert it into a memorial to Gertrude Bell, turning the spotlight back on to a woman who was, in the early 20th century, as famous as Lawrence of Arabia. Gertrude was one of those rare individuals who have only to take up an activity to make a success of it. Aged just 20, she was the first woman to achieve a first in history at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. By her early 30s, she had mastered Farsi well enough to produce a translation of the Divan of Hafiz that is still admired in present-day Iran. She then became so successful a mountaineer that a peak in the Swiss Alps is named after her. And she was one of the first archaeologists – and certainly the first woman - to examine the Byzantine remains of Anatolian Turkey. On the day her grandfather's iron and steel works opened, he rode through Newcastle in an aluminium top hat Yet those are her mere add-on accomplishments. For today, Gertrude is mainly remembered as the woman who explored much of the Middle East, taking some of the earliest photographs of the monuments now being destroyed by Isis. The knowledge she acquired became invaluable to the British government during the first world war. In later life, Gertrude settled in Baghdad and took on the role of kingmaker to Faisal. Once the new monarchy was established, she threw herself into the creation of the National Museum of Iraq. She died in 1926, in Baghdad, almost certainly at her own hand.Gertrude – whose story was told in Werner Herzog’s 2015 film Queen of the Desert, starring Nicole Kidman – was not the only larger than life character in her family. The wealth that facilitated her Middle Eastern wanderings was originally created by her formidable grandfather, Sir Isaac Lowthian Bell, who had set up an iron and steel works in Newcastle and an aluminium plant in Middlesbrough. On the day it opened, he rode through Newcastle wearing an aluminium top hat. Despite their important role in the history of northeast England, the Bells are oddly unremembered. A blue plaque on Red Barns may commemorate Gertrude, but there is no statue of her let alone a museum.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wallpaper by William Morris … Red Barns in the 1920s. Photograph: Alamy Stock Photo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The blue plaque at Red Barns Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoA rare opportunity has presented itself to right this wrong. In 1868, Gertrude’s father commissioned a new home for his young family in the heart of Redcar. Largely the brainchild of William Morris, the Arts and Crafts movement tends to be associated with southern England. But the Bells were to become enthusiastic patrons of the style in the northeast. In 1868, it was to Philip Webb, a man synonymous with Arts and Crafts, that Hugh turned.Only Webb’s second commission as an architect, Red Barns bears a striking resemblance to the better-known Red House in Bexleyheath, London, which he had co-designed with Morris in 1860. A two-storeyed mansion built from hand-moulded bricks and featuring hipped roofs and soaring chimneys, Red Barns is described as Georgian vernacular revival by Historic England. Its interior was the work of Morris, who wallpapered it with blackbirds singing against a bright blue sky. Red Barns is infused with Gertrude’s presence. It was here that she played games of “housemaids” with her brothers and sisters, dashing silently from the cellars to the attics while attempting to avoid being spotted by the servants. It was in the extensive gardens that she cultivated her lifelong love of flowers. Scrambling up the scaffolding as the house was extended in 1882 may have given her the head for heights that turned her into a mountaineer. Riding the ponies stabled at Red Barns gave her the confidence to ride across virtually unmapped tracts of the Middle East. And it was while living at Red Barns that she developed another lifelong passion that has made her such a gift to historians: letter-writing.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adventurer … Nicole Kidman as Gertrude Bell with Robert Pattinson as TE Lawrence in Queen of the Desert. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockMuch taken with Webb’s work, Gertrude’s grandfather also commissioned him to design Rounton Grange near Northallerton, entrusting the interior decoration to Morris and Edward Burne-Jones. And his weekend retreat, the medieval Mount Grace Priory near Osmotherley, was also treated to an Arts and Crafts update. Given the family’s involvement with the industrial development of the northeast, it’s ironic that they should have chosen to associate themselves so strongly with an architectural movement whose practitioners were proudly anti-industrial.After the first world war, luck ran out for the Bell family. They lost much of their fortune to death duties and increased competition in the iron and steel industry. Mount Grace Priory is now owned by English Heritage, which meticulously reproduced some of the original Morris wallpaper in its restoration. Otherwise, time has not been especially kind to their built legacy. Washington New Hall has been turned into apartments. And once the family’s fortune was gone, nothing could save magnificent Rounton Grange from the wrecker’s ball. In 1953, it was completely demolished.  The fountain that stood in the garden has been stolen “Red Barns is Grade II* listed,” says Carol Pyrah of Historic England, “putting it in the top 8% of buildings in England in terms of its special architectural and historic interest.” Yet even so, it was converted into a pub and hotel. Now the hotel has closed, leaving the house vulnerable to vandalism. Stones have been thrown at the lovely “porthole” stained-glass window and, according to Jan Long, founder of the Gertrude Bell Society, the fountain that stood proudly in the garden where Gertrude planted flowers has been stolen.In 2015, the Great North Museum in Newcastle hosted a successful exhibition entitled The Extraordinary Gertrude Bell, which has now moved to Kirkleatham Museum in Redcar. But members of the newly formed Friends of Red Barns think the house would make a perfect permanent home for the exhibition and have launched a campaign to save it from conversion into flats. Redcar MP Anna Turley is spearheading the campaign. “I was becoming increasingly distressed at the visible decline of this historic building,” she says, “and was contacted by many constituents with the same concerns.” Now she is hopeful that a new museum could help kickstart tourism in an area badly hit by recent steelwork closures. “The exhibition has shown the importance of an understanding of past events and issues that have ongoing significance in the Middle East in particular,” says Dr Mark Jackson, manager of the Gertrude Bell Photographic Archive at Newcastle University and co-curator of the exhibition. “Red Barns promises to provide inspiration for a host of initiatives that could sustain the building long term while making a very positive contribution to future society.”The trains may no longer stop in front of Gertrude Bell’s childhood home. But the chance now exists to turn Red Barns into a memorial to one of the greatest women ever born in the UK. The Extraordinary Gertrude Bell is at Kirkleatham Museum, Redcar, until 1 January; gertrudebellsociety.weebly.com