It’s not necessarily a failsafe test of cultural significance, whether or not someone would write a musical about you; yet there’s a reason they’ve written one about Jackie and not about, say, Sugar or Bliss. The nation’s first teen magazine launched in 1964, hit its heyday at the end of the 1970s, basked in popularity in the 1980s and folded in 1993, when competition became too hot from titles both less sweet and less savoury. It was, according to folklore, named after the children’s author Jacqueline Wilson. “I think it’s very sweet,” Wilson demurs, “but that’s not what happened. Although I contributed a lot of stories and articles for Jackie, I didn’t actually work on the magazine.”She was 17 at the time, invited up from London to Dundee to work on a different mag of the stable: one of the striking things about the title is the chaotic meritocracy of the recruiting process. Teenage girls always used to be discovered in competitions, Caitlin Moran and Julie Burchill being print’s great examples, but rarely (never) ran the whole show. At Jackie’s height, remembers Wendy Rigg – features assistant, cover star, eventually fashion editor – “we were no older than the readers, so we knew exactly what to put in the magazine. Nina [Myskow, then editor] herself was only about 28. It was a really young team. Readers thought we were in London but actually we were in Scotland. Putting these clothes on the cover that I’d made myself. I made a poncho out of a rug.”However, when Wilson started there , she was struck by the fact that “the editor and everybody else, they were all men. They would have these solemn discussions about what teenage girls really wanted. And in some ways, I suppose they knew best, because Jackie was a huge success. I don’t think anybody now realises how huge Jackie was. And what I think was a real coup, it was classless. Really posh girls read Jackie. Girls’ brothers secretly read Jackie. It was common currency.” It was hugely popular when old men ran it, and also when young women did: such is the luxury of being a magazine there is only one of. It was classless. Really posh girls read Jackie. Girls’ brothers secretly read Jackie. It was common currency There is a reason beyond nostalgia and monopoly for the place it holds in readers’ memories. When it was first published in the 1960s, it was the first magazine explicitly to recognise youth as a distinct state, girls as something other than smaller versions of their mothers. Almost everyone who read it at that time describes their parents as disapproving but steering clear, understanding for the first time the need for a separate space. In fact, it was nothing like as rebellious as those mothers imagined. Wilson says: “I remember writing a piece about girls having fantasies of what the ideal boy would be like; and saying when you actually went out with a really good looking boy their conversation could be banal, and when you held their hand it might be a bit sweaty. Just a number of ways in which the reality never lived up to the fantasy. DS Thomson wrote me a very sensible letter, saying: ‘Take your point, very funny. But we’re feeding these stories to girls who want to keep their romantic fantasies, and this is what our magazine is about’.” The sexual morality was Victorian (though Wilson observes archly, “a little bit of very gentle petting above the waist was permissible, anything else should wait for the engagement. And being an old fogey now, I think, yes, that’s a little bit more sensible than Tinder.”)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Before she was became a bestselling children’s author, Jacqueline Wilson worked on Jackie magazine: ‘the editor and everybody else, they were all men. They would have these solemn discussions about what teenage girls really wanted.’ Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianIt wasn’t launched as a feminist publication, nor did it ever become one, even as 1970 ushered in the Female Eunuch and all its accompanying awakenings. Although the protagonists in Jackie’s famous photo stories were often significantly older than their target audience. “The heroines were secretaries, and they’d meet people at the bus stop,” Rigg remembers. “They made it sound like it was really good fun to be in a typing pool.” The wish-fulfilment fantasies were childish; heroes worked for the fair or the circus; no anxiety was too immature; there was quite a lot of “I think my best friend is prettier than me.”What did for it – when you look at what replaced it – was the primness. Just Seventeen came along as it was closing and had a lot of similar elements. It had the endless questionnairing (“How Good a Friend Are You? You have just washed your hair and your friend wants to go swimming…” I only remember it so clearly because I was too young to care about my hair, too old to go swimming and I didn’t have any friends). But what sank it was More magazine, edited at its height by Marie O’Riordan, who joined in 1990. “It took over the coyer elements of Jackie and said, ‘We’ve got to stop putting up walls and being obscure in our language. We’ve got to talk to girls the way they talk, so their vernacular was our vernacular.’ Jackie would hide it all; if that came out today, you would think it was from a Christian organisation. Whereas you actually learnt about sex from More, it wasn’t patronising, it was very open. There were no metaphors; it literally explained things that previously you would have had to pick out of misinformation in the playground.”  No anxiety was too immature; there was quite a lot of 'I think my best friend is prettier than me' Immediately, the beady eyes of the adult establishment, graciously averted in the Jackie years, were upon it; questions were asked about the morality of More at PMQs, and the magazine scoffed at them. For all that was wrong with the 1990s, the decade did have a certain boldness, and pearl-clutching wasn’t immediately rewarded with an apology.Charlotte Moore, who edits InStyle (which is for adults, but she has teenage daughters and a futurologist’s eye), says: “If you pretend a magazine is a way to convey information to this generation, you’re just doomed. They’ll always look online. Jackie was a compelling package because you had sex, relationships, makeup tips, fashion tips, all in one place. It was brilliant. There’s absolutely no need for that now. But if you make something that’s like a photographic book, you’ll survive.”The radical thing about Jackie was emphatically not that it presented a challenge to the patriarchy but that it was a curated, impermeable erotic discursive space; it was a place teenagers could go where adults wouldn’t, and it created a cultural bridge to magazines that could tell them something useful. It probably wouldn’t be a bad idea for girls to have such a thing now, even if nobody who could use Google would ever think to want it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Composite: Souvid Datta for the Guardian