Ryan Lochte’s bid for redemption, after his appearance in the Rio Olympics was overshadowed by him urinating on a gas station, was derailed on Monday when two protesters tried to storm the stage during his appearance on Dancing with the Stars.Ryan Lochte: swimmer, reality TV star – and now diplomatic incident The swimmer was making his return to public life after this summer’s scandal, in which he was charged with filing a false robbery report by Brazilian police. The 32-year-old had told American press that he had been robbed at gunpoint, but it emerged he had actually been confronted by a security guard after he had vandalised the gas station. Lochte had just performed the foxtrot to the song Call Me Irresponsible when the show was brought to an abrupt halt.As judge Carrie Ann Inaba was giving her verdict on Lochte’s performance she appeared to spot something off camera. “Hey, back off,” Inaba exclaimed as a figure was seen running in front of the judges’ seating area.TYLER IACONA (@tyleriacona)I feel so bad for Ryan Lochte. I think someone tried to attack him on stage. #DWTS pic.twitter.com/2BN0omz6NBSeptember 13, 2016Broadcaster ABC hastily cut to a commercial, and Lochte could be heard exclaiming: “Chill pill!”Footage released on Tuesday showed a protester, wearing a T-shirt with the name “Lochte” crossed out, appearing on stage beside the swimmer. In the video a security guard runs up to the man and restrains him on the dancefloor. Four other protesters, also wearing anti-Lochte T-shirts, are seen being escorted from the audience.Lochte said he “felt a little hurt” after the incident. “So many feelings are going through my head right now … but I came out here. I wanted to do something I’m completely not comfortable with, and I did.”Two men wearing anti-Lochte T-shirts were arrested on suspicion of criminal trespassing, Los Angeles police spokesman Mike Lopez said. They were detained by ABC security guards until police arrived to take them into custody, with host Tom Bergeron thanking the security team “for staying in shape”.No one was injured in the incident, Lopez said.The drama was an unwelcome introduction to the show for Lochte, who has won 12 Olympic medals, although it did distract from what was a rather stilted performance on stage.The dance began with Lochte committing a mock indiscretion towards his partner Cheryl Burke, before sashaying across the stage. Wearing a white tuxedo with a black tie, the 6ft 2in swimmer appeared a little lumbering, prompting judge Bruno Tonioli to remark that Lochte’s “limbs are not quite used to dry land yet”.In a segment showing Lochte in rehearsal the 32-year-old described the Rio incident as his “biggest regret”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ryan Lochte and dance partner Cheryl Burke in rehearsal. Photograph: Rick Rowell/Getty Images“I want to prove to the world that I’ve changed,” he said. “This is my second chance and I don’t want to blow it.”Former Texas governor Rick Perry is also among the competitors on the 23rd season of Dancing with the Stars. Prior to his turn, Perry said he had no dancing experience but was motivated to take part in the show by his daughter’s upcoming wedding.“I need to be ready to look really good on the dance floor for her,” Perry said.Dancing with the Stars: Rick Perry's latest attempt to shimmy up a poll He emerged, wearing a sequined jacket and bolo tie, to the song God Blessed Texas. Perry began the dance by plucking a corn dog from a faux food-vendor before casting that aside and launching into a linedancing-inspired effort.The 66-year-old did not possess a natural rhythm, but seemed to particularly embrace a dance move where he extended his forefinger in the air like a gun. After the dance Perry – who is perhaps best known for his traumatic run for president in 2012, when he forgot which government agency he would abolish in office, eventually saying “oops” – said he had enjoyed the experience.“Presidential debate ain’t even in the class,” he said. “Ah man, this is crazy good. This is as good as it gets.”Judge Len Goodman described Perry’s performance as “a little bit pedestrian”, while Tonioli told the former governor: “Timing is very important when you dance.” Perry scored 20 out of 40.The competitors in the 23rd season of the show also include model and talkshow host Amber Rose, former NFL wide receiver Calvin “Megatron” Johnson, Little Woman: LA star Terra Jole and Olympic gymnast Laurie Hernandez.Musician Vanilla Ice put in one of the most impressive performances, dancing the cha cha cha to his 1991 hit Ice Ice Baby. Ice, whose real name is Robert Matthew Van Winkle, was awarded 25 points by the judges.