Ben Higgins has fond memories of high school. He said so out loud, on Monday night’s episode of The Bachelor. As though that doesn’t sound ridiculous to most of us, who were traumatized by adolescence, and are stunned to have escaped alive.Ben knows nothing of this. He was never a real teenager. He was a quarterback. Now he’s an adult. Soon there will be blah blah blah, to be followed by his eventual death. On the day David Bowie died, I watched The Bachelor go back to high school.This was the conceit of the first Bachelor group date, at some local Los Angeles academy for hire. For Ben, high school wasn’t so long ago. He’s 26. And the women trying to marry him seem barely legal. Anyway. Back to high school. There were contests for the ladies – in the the science lab and the cafeteria and the gymnasium. There was hoop-shooting and hurdle-jumping, and I don’t mean that metaphorically, but yes, also that.Worst of all, the ladies found out that if they want to marry Ben Higgins, they have to be able to place Indiana onto a map. Geography is a terrible hoop to jump through if you happen to be American.Elizabeth Wurtzel on The Bachelor: if a wife is your goal, why choose this method? None of the women could figure out where Indiana is. Does it matter where Indiana is? No one thought to ask. Not surprisingly, Mandi, the weird dentist from Portland, bested everyone else – she spent more time in school than, say, Amber, the unpleasant bartender from Chicago – and she was crowned The Bachelor’s homecoming queen. I hope Mandi got to keep the tiara, because she was eliminated at the end of the night. Turns out it doesn’t matter where Indiana is, when it comes to love.The Bachelor enterprise is thrilled by drama: behavior that must have seemed like a disaster the first season is now the show’s signature. To ring in 2016, The Bachelor created a teaser montage of women crying to excite us about all the tears to come.The Bachelor aspires to this kind of hysteria: women bawl over a man they have had only a brief conversation with as a matter of course. Somehow, as early as the second episode, all 20 or so of the contestants are capable of believing they have a relationship with this one man, and they are obsessive about it. This season, considering that the women are all so young and unaccomplished, they also have nothing else to discuss. As it is, women of all ages, with better things to talk about, spend too much time discussing relationships. On and on we go, over coffee, over margaritas, we delve. It’s the worst thing about women. On The Bachelor this season, it’s the only thing. I own Straight Outta Compton. I still listen to it. Ice Cube’s appearance should not have been dull. On Ben’s first “one-on-one” date with Caila, a 23-year-old who sells software just like him, all they talked about was their feelings. At first, they had Ice Cube and Kevin Hart riding along. They even all got into a hot tub together, but still failed to make it interesting (their new film, Ride Along 2, arrived in theaters last weekend). I own Straight Outta Compton. I still listen to it. Ice Cube’s appearance should not have been dull.Ben asked Caila what she wanted in a man and she gave him some anodyne answer. Afterwards, she said the whole thing was the most amazing night of her life. Blah blah blah.Caila said, “I never thought this would happen,” about her date with Ben. I am trying to figure out how you marry someone that you have invested with that kind of preliminary fantastical idealism. But it is no problem for Ben. He was a football star in high school. To him, this of course feels normal.None of the insanity gets to him. Even the loony Lace does not get to him.Everyone knows Lace – knows her type – because she turns up at every party, causes a scene, and causes more of a scene apologizing. Lace is the hot pink jumbo elephant in the room, stomping around. Lace is the girl who does not know that she’s in a hole and should stop digging. Lace does not know that you actually do have a right to remain silent. Lace gets pulled over for a traffic violation and talks her way into a night in jail.Lace is the star of The Bachelor this season.Ben will never eliminate Lace. She’s a Bachelor classic. She can’t at all handle the situation, and who can blame her? Lace drinks too much white wine (The Bachelor is fueled by fruity Chardonnay) and insists that she will prevail, which alienates all the other women. Lace is awful, but this is The Bachelor, so she’s the entertainment. As for the contest itself: it is week two, but Olivia (my pick) is already “confident” in her relationship with Ben. Yes, she said that. On TV. Out loud so everyone could hear.Like Ben, Olivia does not know what she sounds like. At age 23, could she really be a news anchor in Austin? Perhaps she reports the weather somewhere nearby. But maybe she is what she says. Olivia is formidable.Olivia has not yet been on a date with Ben, but she is sure they are getting married. Why not? Someone has to win. Why not her? She looks like Jessica Savitch, so she has the anchorwoman thing figured out, assuming she can read a cue card.On the group date to Love Lab Technologies, which seems to only exist on The Bachelor, several sort-of scientific tests determined that Ben and Olivia have chemistry. Ben is plainly taken with her. So maybe.But Ben is also taken with Lauren the stewardess. And then he used a glue gun to make barrettes with Amanda the single mother. Who knows what Ben will do. He is not like most people. Most people hated high school.