Indiana Jones and the Tide of Ageism: why such a reaction to the fifth film? Indiana Jones has not hung up his fedora just yet: Disney have announced the dry-yet-derring archaeologist will be back for a fifth, as yet untitled, instalment. The film will be released on 19 July 2019, 11 years after the ill-received fourth in the series, Indiana Jones and the Temple of the Crystal Skull. Steven Spielberg, who oversaw all previous films, will return, as will star Harrison Ford, despite rumours that his advancing years might see him handing the whip to a younger actor, with Chris Pratt, Bradley Cooper and Shia LaBeouf (who featured in the fourth film) all mooted as possible replacements. Ford, who will be 76 when the new film is in cinemas, recently enjoyed success with another revival of a franchise with which he was closely associated: Star Wars. The enormous box office take for The Force Awakens returned him to the top of the list of highest-grossing actors last year. Next year he will be seen in a sequel to 1982’s Blade Runner – although not, apparently, in spin-off Han Solo origins film.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Raiders of the Lost Ark. Photograph: Allstar/LUCASFILMCould Chris Pratt be the man for another Indiana Jones crusade? Disney chair Alan Horn said: “Indiana Jones is one of the greatest heroes in cinematic history, and we can’t wait to bring him back to the screen in 2019. It’s rare to have such a perfect combination of director, producers, actor and role, and we couldn’t be more excited to embark on this adventure with Harrison and Steven.”Also returning are producers Kathleen Kennedy and George Lucas, who developed the character. To date the Indiana Jones films – 1981’s Raiders of the Lost Ark, 1984’s Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, 1989’s Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade and 2008’s Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull – have taken nearly $2bn worldwide.• This article was amended on 15 March 2016. It originally stated that the film’s 2019 release would see it coming 13 years after Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. The last film was in fact released in 2008, so it will be 11 years. This has now been corrected.