There was a time, not so many years ago, when car exhausts pumped out lead that deadened the brains of children and acid fell from the sky into rivers left sterile by foul effluent. In the oceans, whales were hunted to the brink of annihilation while up above, holes were punched in the ozone layer by vapours from discarded refrigerators.Even fewer years ago, new coal-fuelled power stations, ready to pump their carbon pollution into the sky, were seen as inevitable, while renewable energy was just science fiction. Dumping our rubbish was simply a case of digging a hole in the ground.We no longer live in that world, thanks largely to the vision of green groups including Greenpeace, which celebrates its 40th birthday on Wednesday and WWF and Friends of the Earth, which passed 40 and 50 earlier this year. These groups saw far earlier than others the deep and perverse harm being wrought on the environment and threw their passion into halting it.The green movement has undoubtedly punched above its weight and boxed cleverly to corner politicians into action. But as it enters middle age, it finds itself squaring up to far more heavyweight opponents.It is now clear that the planet's problems are systemic – and the green movement's guerrilla tactics cannot be as potent when challenging something as fundamental as how we power and feed modern civilisation.Climate change is driven by mining and burning fossil fuels: carbon is the workhorse of the global economy, and it is a daunting task to replace it. In this light it is no longer enough to get concerns of sustainability on to the agenda – they must become the agenda. That means defeating the vested interests of some of the world's biggest corporations and the fossilised thinking of some of the world's biggest governments.Environmental NGOs are the victim of their own success. By making green issues mainstream they have weakened the traction they had as pressure groups. And as concerns about air, land and water are more clearly identified as basic economic and social issues, the debate has become crowded with other players.What to do? The problem is seen by some greens as a battle of people against money. Others regard it as a conflict between the over-40s, cushioned in the west by their carbon-fuelled wealth, versus the under-40s, picking up the ecological bill. On a planetary scale the global south could be seen as picking up the ecological bill of the global north.All these battles are political. But can green groups move into politics by broadening their base without losing the hardcore of support that helped create them? The modest recent gains by green parties in the UK, Germany and elsewhere suggest that route is self-limiting.Perhaps what is needed is to scale up the people power that brought success in past campaigns. But climate change, biodiversity and the like are frustratingly difficult to pin down in space or time. A million might march against a war or economic austerity measures, but not against a more fuzzy, if ultimately more deadly, threat. Joining forces is attractive and has been tried, but coalitions of idealists lack focus and punch.Perhaps mass action online could turn the tide? Millions do back internet campaigns, but mere numbers lack transformative power without real-world substance behind them.Green groups will continue their campaigns, changing the world one law at a time. Yet for true transformation a return to vision is required – but as a mirror image of the founding passions. The solutions to global warming, crashing biodiversity, and food, land and water shortages must be presented with as much drama as were the problems of previous decades. People must see a positive choice they can take, rather than just avoiding negative ones.Greens have struggled to sell effectively the good news of sustainability, of safe and secure energy and food, clean air and water. It necessitates different tactics. Not climbing smokestacks to grab the front-page picture, but a meticulous and relentless exposition through a thousand channels of why it is good to live within one's planetary means.From the boardroom to the corridors of power to the aisles of the supermarket, the message needs to be sold. The seeds are there, but struggling to grow in a world awash with commodities. Those commodities are rising in price, but not fast enough by itself to prevent planetary red lines being crossed.The challenge for the next phase of the green movement's life then is tough but essential. It is convincing the world that happiness is having just enough.