Easter time marks the march towards the brighter vegetables that I miss over winter: broad beans, asparagus and the first wild shoots feel like the first signs of spring. But the reality is that these things often take longer to arrive than we would like. If I’m left waiting for the next season’s produce, I eat greenly in a different way.Wines full of spring | David Williams As a teenager, I was presented with a salad the memory of which has remained with me ever since. A friend of my mother’s, Irma, hosted us in a 17th-century cowshed, meticulously refitted and nestled in the Swiss Alps. The dish was simple: lamb’s lettuce (or mâche), raw carrot and hard-boiled egg with spicy vinaigrette. She said it was a Swiss classic and it sat in her repertoire of precisely delicious potato rostis, fondues and legendary breakfasts with hazelnut yogurt and Alpine cheeses. The salad epitomised freshness. At this time of year, I am as likely to cook a salad leaf as eat it raw; use flavours such as my butter-laced anchovy and pine nut sauce to coat the vegetables I find; turn to warmth one way or another, be it in the inclusion of toasted breadcrumbs to a vegetable dish or adding a still-warm boiled egg to a salad. It is in the spirit of Irma that these recipes have been written, with memories of streaming sun lighting the snow peaks outside, soft salads and spring flowers. Lamb’s lettuce saladThe only cooking required here is to boil the eggs but this clever, delicate salad is more than the sum of its parts.Serves 4eggs 3 of the best you can getlamb’s lettuce 200ggarlic ¼ clovesaltherb and wine vinegar 1 tbspextra virgin olive oil 3 tbspcarrot 1Hard boil the eggs. Wash the leaves, give them a shake or gentle spin and leave them on a clean towel on the bench to dry. Crush the garlic with a pinch of salt and stir it into 1 tbsp vinegar and 3 tbsp extra virgin olive oil. Peel the carrot and slice it thinly on the bias and then slice again into matchsticks. Carefully mix the leaves and carrot with the dressing and serve with the sliced eggs.Pasta mista with cod and peas      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peas to the world: pasta mista with cod and peas. Photograph: Jean Cazals for the ObserverMixed pasta can be bought from Italian delis; or better yet, can be made using up all the little bits of leftovers in the packets lining your cupboard, snapping any longer shapes into shorter pieces. If you have a good supplier, feel free to use actual salt cod rather than this quick version of it, soaking the fish for several days in regular changes of water. But I really like this fresher version as well.Serves 2sea saltcod 200gonion 1, smallgarlic 1 clovechilli ½, driedextra virgin olive oil a glugparsley 4 sprigssage 3 leaveslemon peel 3 stripspeas 250g (can be frozen)pasta mista 150gLiberally salt the cod and leave it unwrapped in the fridge overnight or up to 24 hours. Then rinse very well under cold water. The fish will feel pleasingly firm to the touch.Sweat the onion, garlic and chilli in a glug of olive oil over a medium temperature for about 7 minutes. Chop some of the parsley stalks and sage and add them with the lemon peel. After a few minutes more, add the peas and cod, turn up the heat, stir once and add water to cover. Simmer for 15 minutes and add the pasta. Cover with more boiling water so all the pieces are submerged – but not drowning.Cook, stirring all the while, adding more water when necessary until the pasta is al dente and the sauce thicker. Add more chopped parsley and serve with extra olive oil.Artichokes and lettuce      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Add the warmth of toasted breadcrumbs: artichokes and lettuce. Photograph: Jean Cazals for the ObserverServes 4artichokes 6lemon 1breadcrumbs 4 tbspolive oil 2 tbsp, plus some for crumbsred onion ½garlic 2 clovessalt a pinchchilli 1 driedlettuce 1, robust, such as Romainedried wild oregano 2 tbspRemove the tough outer leaves from the artichokes and trim the tops. Trim the stalks and peel them and the base of the artichokes. Cut in half and use a teaspoon to remove the choke. Cut each half into 4. Cut the lemon in half and rub on the artichokes if you care about them discolouring.Heat the oven or gill. Coat the breadcrumbs with some oil and toast until golden.Peel and slice the onion and garlic. Heat 2 tbsp of oil in a wide pan and sweat them with a pinch of salt and the chilli. When soft, add the artichokes and continue to cook over a medium heat, stirring. Wash and slice the lettuce in half and then each half into 6. Once the artichokes are mostly cooked add the lettuce, the oregano and a squeeze of lemon.Cook stirring for 5 minutes and serve at once with the breadcrumbs.Asparagus and broccoli with pine nuts and porcini      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Getting fresh: asparagus and broccoli with pine nuts and porcini. Photograph: Jean Cazals for the ObserverThis dish reflects a seasonal crossover. If it’s too early, don’t buy asparagus but use carrots or Swiss chard instead.For the saucedried porcini 10golive oil a littlecelery 1 stick with leaves cut into piecesonion 2 thin slicesgarlic 1 clove, slicedpine nuts 15gwhite wine 1 glassanchovy fillets 2butter 40gasparagus 1 bunchsprouting broccoli 200gSoak the dried porcini in a cup of boiling water for 30 minutes. In a small pan heat a little olive oil and add the celery, onion and garlic.Fry without colouring for about 7 minutes. Add the pine nuts and porcini and cook a moment longer before adding the porcini water, omitting any dust that may be at the bottom of the cup.Cook until dry again and then add the wine. Reduce by half and then add the anchovies and butter in 2 pieces and whizz with a stick blender or food processor. Adjust the seasoning.Boil the asparagus and broccoli together in salted water.Dress with a little olive oil and serve with the warm sauce.Joe Trivelli is joint head chef at the River Café. Nigel Slater returns in two weeks