People’s History of Pop9.30pm, BBC4People like great music: that’s pretty much the understanding on which BBC4, essentially one long documentary on Robert Wyatt, is built. Here, Danny Baker brings together the people and the music of 1966 to 1976 to tell both their stories. We meet Roger, whose life was changed by the Isle Of Wight festival in 1970, and John who took Rose, now his wife of 40 years, on a first date to see David Bowie play Earls Court in 1973. John RobinsonBBC Proms 2016: Strictly Prom7.30pm, BBC4Here come the hot steppers: one-time Strictly finalist Katie Derham is joined at the Royal Albert Hall by an elite troupe of professionals from the show, including Aljaž Skorjanec, the alpha papa of foxtrot, and high-kicking in-laws Joanne and Karen Clifton. With the BBC Concert Orchestra under the baton of English National Ballet’s Gavin Sutherland, it promises to be a slick, sequin-heavy safari through the musical history of ballroom. Graeme VirtueThe Out-Laws 9pm, More4Episode two of the Belgian black comedy and we learn more about the Goethals sisters’ efforts to murder their obnoxious brother-in-law, Jean-Claude. He’s a man who wouldn’t be out of place as the villain in a Roald Dahl story – witness his nastiness toward the owners of a Chinese restaurant – but the siblings’ efforts are hampered by their inexperience as killers. Imagine it as Desperate Housewives but with more heart and an acute use of ironic humour. Jonathan WrightAthletics: London Anniversary Games 8pm, BBC2The London Olympic Stadium plays host to the 10th meeting of this year’s Diamond League campaign, with tonight’s focus on the shorter distances. With only a month until the Olympics in Rio, athletes will be looking to hit near-peak form. The highlight will be the appearance of Usain Bolt, who takes on Jamaican teammate Nickel Ashmeade in the 200m. It’s by no means a shoo-in, with France’s Christophe Lemaitre also competing. David StubbsBack On Board: Greg Louganis9pm, Sky AtlanticAward-winning documentary on the life of Olympic diving champion Greg Louganis. Perhaps best known in Britain for slamming his head on to a springboard mid-dive during the Seoul Olympics, that incident overshadowed a quartet of Olympic gold medals. With his celebrity disappearing as quickly as his financial security, this study follows the athlete’s return to diving as mentor to current US Olympic hopefuls. Mark Gibbings-JonesFriday Night Dinner 10pm, Channel 4Robert Popper’s superlatively silly comedy is peerless in the way it captures the everyday eccentricity of family life. In this fourth series opener, Goodman family patriarch Martin invites a friend over for dinner, to the rest of the family’s dismay. What inevitably follows is a sequence of misunderstandings and backfiring schemes, punctuated – as ever – by umpteen infuriating visits from neighbour Jim. Rachel AroestiArtsnight: Val McDermid11pm, BBC2The doyen of “tartan noir”, Val McDermid, looks here at where truth and fiction collide. She explores the relationship between video games and fiction, speaking to the gamers influenced by literature and finding out to what extent writers have been influenced by gaming culture and narrative. She also looks at the flourishing genre of true crime, arguing that fiction is a more ethical mode for telling such personal stories. Ben ArnoldFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Rudd as Ant-Man (2015). Photograph: Allstar/DisneyAnt-Man (Peyton Reed, 2015) 3.55pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereA smaller breed of Marvel superhero: just-out-of-jail Scott Lang is transformed by kooky inventor Michael Douglas’s special suit into a really tiny – well, ant-sized – do-gooder, but with supersized powers. Casting the amiably funny Paul Rudd as Lang signals an intention to play this for laughs, and it is pretty amusing, with some impressively big insect-fights. Can’t help thinking, though, that original director Edgar Wright, who fell out with Marvel, would have done a better job. Paul HowlettChico & Rita (Fernando Trueba, Tono Errando, Javier Mariscal, 2010) 12.30am, BBC2This animated romance conjures up all the smoky sexiness of 1940s Havana nightclubs. It’s about the passionate affair between pianist Chico (voiced by Eman Xor Oña) and Cuban singer Rita (Limara Meneses), and the problems that develop when she is whisked off to showbiz in New York. PHLive sportInternational Cricket: England v Pakistan Ain’t no party like a back-to-back Tests party. Alastair Cook and Misbah-ul-Haq bring their teams to Old Trafford. 10am, Sky Sports 2Cycling: Tour de France Today’s stage is 146km long, running from Albertville to Saint-Gervais Mont Blanc. 12noon, Eurosport 1, ITV4WTA Tennis: The Stanford Classic Quarter-finals action from the uni. 10pm, BT Sport 1