Comedy as the new rock’n’roll we’re used to. But mime? Not so long ago, that unloved art form seemed unlikely ever to be hip again. But hip – sexy, indeed – is how it felt on the night last August when I saw silent comic Trygve Wakenshaw perform his Edinburgh comedy award-nominated show Nautilus. Great waves of adoration crashed over Wakenshaw from the 600-strong crowd, who whooped and cheered as if they’d never encountered this art form before. As if Wakenshaw wasn’t just an ace exponent of mime, but the creator, before their very eyes, of an undreamed-of new way to be funny.It was quite something, as Wakenshaw acknowledges. “That was a really great night,” he says, not remotely rock’n’roll-ish over coffee in a Euston Road cafe. “It wasn’t always that electric.” And yet – with his award nod, a recent short film for Sky Arts and his current London international mime festival run – Wakenshaw is palpably an act on the rise, a credible candidate for the first breakout superstar of the mime revival that’s been brewing these last few years on the comedy scene. Which is fine by him, he says. “That’s all I want: I just want to be Mr Bean.” I wanted to riff on ideas and do away with structure. I wanted to make jazz theatre You wouldn’t bet against it. With his gangling frame and angular limbs, he can – like Rowan Atkinson before him – be funny just to look at. Then there’s the leftfield approach to life suggested by his arriving at our interview bearing me a gift, wholly unbidden, of a pineapple. But in fact, the New Zealander isn’t as singleminded as his Mr Bean dream implies. When we talk, he’s still processing his sudden success, still wondering whether he even wants to be a solo act, wordlessly making people laugh, at all.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for Wakenshaw’s KrakenHe’s a theatre man, first and foremost, having spent a decade co-running the company Theatre Beating with fellow Kiwi Barnie Duncan (also known to comedy fans as spoof Venezuelan DJ Juan Vesuvius. But then Wakenshaw became interested, he says, “in whether you could hold a piece of theatre together without a story. I wanted to riff on ideas and do away with structure. I wanted to make jazz theatre.” His first stab was 2013 hit Squidboy, a free-associating fantasia about a boy who imagined himself a squid, or vice versa. Its follow-up, Kraken, was looser, more improvisatory, and bore a keen resemblance to the work of Wakenshaw’s predecessor as Edinburgh fringe clown darling, Doctor Brown.While cheerfully acknowledging his forebear’s brilliance, Wakenshaw “got sick of those comparisons”, he says, and changed tack with the third show in the trilogy. Nautilus eschewed audience interaction, adhered to a (relatively) conventional narrative structure and even – whisper it – meant something. “The thing that informed that was a friend of mine asking, ‘What are you trying to say?” And I didn’t really know. But I was a year into being vegan, so I went, ‘Maybe that’s something to talk about. Why are people eating animals?’” And so, among several unlikely recurring characters in Nautilus, we meet a chicken resisting the roast and a cow who insists “moo means moo”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I’ve never nailed words. Every time I talk, the audience gets turned off’ … Wakenshaw in Kraken. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianIt’s a terrific performance, a masterclass in shapeshifting, in underdog humour, and in how to pursue clown logic in richly satisfying narrative directions. It’s also an exemplary display of the mime’s art, which Wakenshaw insists is more than just a technical skill. “It helps being lanky and limb-y,” he confesses. “But if anything’s key to it, it’s the ability to see the thing you’re pretending is there. If you haven’t got the sparkle in your eyes, if you’re not seeing the things that aren’t there, it won’t work.” In Nautilus, it works wonderfully – never more so than in a closing skit that suddenly introduces into Wakenshaw’s invisible unreality a solid, real-world can of Coke. This head-spinning reversal of mime convention was one of my standout comedy moments of last year’s fringe.Wakenshaw’s not a trained mime, he’s a trained clown, from the same school – École Philippe Gaulier in Paris – where Doctor Brown and, most famously of all, Sacha Baron Cohen, learned their twisted craft. But mime comes naturally to him, he says, not least because “I’ve never nailed words. I’d like to, but I feel like me talking is less interesting than me moving my body around. Every time I talk, there’s a sense that the audience gets turned off.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch clips from SquidboyHe’s a little wistful about that, and occasionally fancies trying his hand at proper (ie verbal) solo comedy. That’s surprising, given that one of Nautilus’s funniest moments sees him mickey-taking alpha-male standups and their cheap visual tricks. But Wakenshaw is at a crossroads. He’s found big success unexpectedly, doing something that started out just as a curious experiment. “It’s really cool what’s happened,” he says. “But as an artist making shows, it feels like: I can do that now. And maybe now I want to go back to working with other people, or to television, or to the circus. I’m sure I’ll always keep exploring mime, and solo work, but not exclusively. It’s an interesting time now, because I really don’t know which way to go.”Nautilus is at Soho theatre, London, as part of the London international mime festival until 23 January. He returns to Soho theatre from 29 February to 9 March.