In the wake of the US election, the past few months have felt like an alternate reality for many. But even in the wildest of alternate realities, did anybody think Moby would be the one to bring down the Trump administration?In a Facebook post on Monday, the American DJ, musician and animal rights activist claimed he had spent the weekend “talking to friends who work in dc [sic]” and could therefore “accurately” post insider information about the Trump presidency. What we know – and what's true – about the Trump-Russia dossier The allegations detailed by Moby included that Trump was “being blackmailed” by the Russian government for “much more nefarious things” than prevailing rumours already suggest, but that the Trump administration is simultaneously “in collusion” with the Russian government “and has been since day one”. The musician also alleged that there were plans afoot both inside the Republican party and rightwing circles to “get rid of” Trump, as well as “intelligence agencies around the world ... working to present information that will lead to high level firings and, ultimately, impeachment”. He also claimed that the US plans to go to war with Iran and is already strategically moving US warships into place along the coast. Mira Gonzalez (@miragonz)if moby gets trump impeached, that is infallible proof that we are in a matrix-like simulation of reality https://t.co/wVwPSOiRmhFebruary 13, 2017“[I]’m writing these things so that when/if these things happen there will be a public record beforehand,” Moby wrote. “[T]hese are truly baffling and horrifying times, as we have an incompetent president who is essentially owned by a foreign power.”In a later post he urged Americans to vote against Trump in 2018 mid-term elections. The response on social media has been a combination of mirth and surprise, with users on Twitter speculating about the musician’s sources and on the new president’s possible Twitter response. Others likened Moby’s intervention to when Courtney Love believed she had found missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 in 2014.Damien Owens (@OwensDamien)I might believe that Moby has dirt on Russia’s deal with Trump if Courtney Love hadn’t made such a balls of finding flight MH370 that time.February 13, 2017Travis Marmon (@TravisMarmon)If Trump responds to Moby with "Nobody listens to techno!" I will ascend to a higher planeFebruary 13, 2017In a later tweet and Instagram post, Moby seemingly responded to the skepticism about his statements by saying: “most of the info i referenced is of public record, or will be relatively soon. also hoping Trump Bannon iran war plans are thwarted.”moby XⓋX (@thelittleidiot)most of the info i referenced is of public record, or will be relatively soon. also hoping #trump #bannon iran war plans are thwarted.February 13, 2017Jason Diamond (@imjasondiamond)It would be so funny if Moby brought this shit crashing down. https://t.co/nv6Ry4oDulFebruary 13, 2017He also posted a picture of a clown with balloons, and wrote: “Hey, I’m just a clown. I mean, maybe there isn’t a #trump administration plan to go to war with Iran. And maybe trump’s inner circle isn’t filled with Russian operatives. And maybe russia Doesn’t have utterly damning info on trump that’s keeping him under their thumb. And maybe the Koch bros and their pals aren’t looking at options to get trump out of the White House. Just don’t look too closely at Flynn and manafort and the uss Cole and the Russians who’ve disappeared or died recently and what’s currently happening in the Ukraine. Again, I’m just a bald clown who probably knows nothing. I’m going to go make some balloon animals now.” Hey, I'm just a clown. I mean, maybe there isn't a #trump administration plan to go to war with Iran. And maybe trump's inner circle isn't filled with Russian operatives. And maybe russia Doesn't have utterly damning info on trump that's keeping him under their thumb. And maybe the Koch bros and their pals aren't looking at options to get trump out of the White House. Just don't look too closely at Flynn and manafort and the uss Cole and the Russians who've disappeared or died recently and what's currently happening in the Ukraine. Again, I'm just a bald clown who probably knows nothing. I'm going to go make some balloon animals now.A photo posted by moby XⓋX (@moby) on Feb 13, 2017 at 3:32pm PST