Stand Up to Cancer 7pm, Channel 4A Comic Relief kind of deal, but this time in aid of cancer charities, Stand Up… features a night of programming tweaked to make it special, as well as some special standalone appearances. Davina McCall presents with her customary good cheer and, if it will be tough to beat the Celeb Gogglebox from 2014 with Kate Moss and Naomi Campbell, guest appearances are promised from folks such as Noel Gallagher, Jon Hamm and even Britney Spears. John RobinsonThe Level 9pm, ITVHaving taken a few weeks to show its hand, this Sussex-set crime thriller is improving stealthily. The reveal of who the main villains are, combined with new personal reasons for reckless cop Nancy (Karla Crome) to abandon caution, now causes the sort of gathering dread that makes you unconsciously clench both fists. Glam heiress Hayley (Laura Haddock) and veteran detective Michelle (Lindsey Coulson) are also standing up to Brighton’s nastiest men. Jack SealePink Floyd Beginnings 1967–1972 9pm, BBC4A saucerful of rare appearances from the pre-stadium Pink Floyd, the result of an archive trawl to tie in with their new box set. Includes footage of Syd Barett singing Astronomy Domine on the BBC’s Look of the Week; a mesmerising Set The Controls… on France’s Forum Musique; and boppers doing terrible 60s-style dancing to Let There Be More Light on a 1968 French equivalent of Jools’ Hootenanny called Surprise Partie. C’est fantastique. Ali CatterallStill Game 9.30pm, BBC1Good deeds abound in this week’s visit to the codgers of Craiglang. Jack, Victor and Isa make over Methadone Mick for a job interview, Boabby is due to receive a citizenship award at the council chambers, and an uncharacteristically selfless Winston offers to accompany the perennially unpopular barkeep on his big evening. Could the latter have anything to do with Winston and Shug staking out the council offices? A Scottish sort of Ocean’s Over-75s, if you will. Mark Gibbings-Jones QI 10pm, BBC2The 14th series of the knowingly esoteric quiz has reached the letter N which, for this opening episode, should probably stand for “new host”. Sandi Toksvig takes over in the big chair and – considering how Stephen Fry’s bluff smartypants approach helped define QI – the transition is remarkably seamless. Panellists Romesh Ranganathan, Cariad Lloyd, Phill Jupitus and original fixture Alan Davies are effortlessly steered and/or needled as required. Graeme VirtueThe Player 9pm, SpikePhilip Winchester and Wesley Snipes star in this action series following Kane, a Las Vegas security expert embroiled in a bizarre high-stakes gambling operation run by Snipes’s Isaiah Johnson. The idea is that they select a “player” whom the operation bankroll, pitting them against criminals. Tonight, Kane finds himself a suspect in his ex-wife’s murder before being recruited. If all this sounds like hard work, US audiences agreed; it lasted one series. David StubbsBonnie and Clyde 9pm, PBS AmericaDespite being elevated to glamorous folklore status by Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway on screen, Bonnie and Clyde were of course violent gangsters who robbed and murdered as many as 13 people during the Great Depression in the US. This new doc ventures back to the days before they were shorthand for a inseparable duo of any sort, to consider their heinous crimes. An intriguing, if slightly lengthy, look at the outlaws’ lives. Hannah J DaviesSPORTRugby Union: Sale Sharks v Toulon 7pm, BT Sport 2. European Champions Cup game from the AJ Bell Stadium.Championship Football: Burton Albion v Birmingham City 7pm, Sky Sports 1. The hosts have made an encouraging start but high-flying Birmingham will be a big test.Test Cricket: Bangladesh v England 4.45am, Sky Sports 2. The third day’s action from Chittagong.FILMGrimsby (Louis Letterier, 2016), 2.15pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereSacha Baron Cohen’s Norman “Nobby” Butcher, a Grimsby Town football fan suddenly thrust back into the life of his elite government assassin brother Sebastian (Mark Strong), is sadly not a comedic gem of a character to rank with Borat and Brüno. There’s some fun in the brothers’ riotous, sub-Bond action antics, but the constant stream of gross body-fluid jokes and the mock-northern accent soon grow tiring, while a cast including Penélope Cruz and Ian McShane is pretty much wasted. Paul HowlettThe Filth and the Fury (Julien Temple, 2000), 1.25am, Film4As chronicler of anarchic punk act the Sex Pistols, Temple revisits the events of his earlier film, The Great Rock ’n’ Roll Swindle, but this time leaves out the tendentious views of manager Malcolm McLaren. The result is a filthy and furious interweaving of the band’s gobby 70s stage antics and the considered views of the surviving members, with John Lydon still snarling with Johnny Rotten intensity. PH