Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for taking part.  about how our weekly Readers recommend series works at the end of the piece.Everybody wants to be a star, don’t they? Everyone dreams of shaking off that daily grind, getting those guitars strapped on, getting on stage and slaying everyone in sight. Everyone dreams of being that Three-Minute Hero (with which the Selecter start this week’s playlist).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist.They say there is a good book inside everyone; it’s just that not everyone sits down to write it. Is the same true of albums? If so, you have to get yourself moving. Find some friends and put the plan into action. And if the kid from over the road has a theremin, you’re one up on most other acts right from the genesis (not Genesis). Next up, it’s Half Man Half Biscuit and Look Dad No Tunes), who could, as our next correspondent puts it, fill a playlist on this theme.   kolf 23 February 2017 9:19pmHalf Man Half Biscuit could fill a playlist, or probably a compilation double album with impeccable, hilarious barbs directed at bands taking themselves too seriously. One of these must go on the list.Running Order Squabble FestEno CollaborationUsed to Be in Evil GazeboLeft Lyrics in Practice RoomUrge For OffalGet KramerGirlfriends Finished With HimLook Dad No TunesFour Skinny Indie KidsIf it's specifically about the music "business", Squabble Fest, Get Kramer, Eno Collaboration all more than worthy of a place.Once you are up and running, you’ve got to get yourself gigs, gigs and more gigs. You might have to start off glomming on to someone else’s touring like Tim Rogers & the Twin Set in Hi, We’re the Support Band. And it is a total grind spending eight hours on the road going to some place for the chance of a few quid. Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band and The Bride Stripped Bare, with more tales of a band on the road, according to our nominator, comes next. Eventually, you start to get a bit of interest from labels. But unless you are the flavour of the month you are not going to find it easy. You may have to bow, scrape, tug the forelock and sycophant yourself into diminution to get yourself signed up, as per Jill Scott in Dear Mr and Mrs Record Industry.However you do it, you are on the label, and you need to get yourself into the charts. By any old measure. Get airplay by sucking up to the radio stations like Fishbone in Modern Industry and you might get yourself before a mass audience gawping for the latest hitmakers’ every move – before, if you are the Rezillos, finding your own track Top of the Pops.And then you’ve made it. The man from the Beeb tells you to stay by your phone while they read out the chart rundown. Because somebody might want to give you a call. It can only mean one thing. After all that promotion, the shopping centre tours, the endless slog, you are finally the artist enjoying Being Number One (Black Box Recorder). But fame is a fickle mistress. She devours her children. You might find 400 other bands copying your original sound like a Fashion Parade (Misty’s Big Adventure). Your records stop selling and your label changes your sound to catch the new zeitgeist without your even knowing (as Melanie laments:  What Have They Done to My Song, Ma – more recently performed in session with Miley Cyrus ... ). And before you know it, the hits have dried up, you’re dropped from the label, you’re back to oblivion, you’re the one somewhere in Swansea that everyone points at as having been someone once (Helen Love’s Girl About Town).It’s a shit business. You’ll find out. So here’s the Jesus and Mary Chain with I Hate Rock’n’Roll.In summary, as Altered Images have it on Dead Pop Stars: “I am the poster on your wall ... remember how much you used to love me?”New theme: how to join inThe new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 2 March. You then have until 11pm on Monday 6 March to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for Readers recommend:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.