The news that Liverpool Everyman plans to trial a resident acting company model sounds like a very good move, particularly to those with long memories who recall the glory days of the Everyman when actors including Julie Walters, Jonathan Pryce, Alison Steadman and others were part of the resident Everyman company in the 70s.Of course what’s been suggested for Liverpool in 2017 is not by any means a return to the producing model that served Liverpool’s creativity so well 40 years ago. Nor is it the older style weekly or bi-weekly repertory system so beloved as a useful training ground by older actors, including Judi Dench and Ian McKellen, who fear that acting is in decline. Those days are long gone and won’t return, both for financial reasons and because the process of making theatre today is so far removed from the diet of script-based, text-heavy plays on which that old rep system was based.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   As You Like It at the Liverpool Everyman in 1967. Photograph: ANL/Rex/ShutterstockThe Theatre by the Lake in Keswick and Frinton’s summer rep seasons can still operate using an old-style rep system largely because it is staging plays that have already been tried and tested elsewhere. As the Lyric’s Secret Theatre ensemble discovered, it is far more time-consuming and exposing to create work as an ensemble when that includes not just actors but also writers and directors, and designers who are all equal creative partners in the process.What artistic director Gemma Bodinetz is proposing in Liverpool is something different still: not a return to old-style rep but something far more suited to the remit of a 21st-century regional theatre, a group of diverse, multi-skilled actors with a 50:50 gender split who will be deeply involved in the community activities of the theatre. Something similar went on at the Mercury in Colchester about 15 years ago and it not only brought an audience back into the then-ailing theatre, it also made a real and lasting connection between the town and the building. If the actors leading the young company that your teenagers attend are also the same actors who you regularly see on stage and in the local supermarket, you feel a connection to them and are much more likely to want to see them on stage.Will the decline of rep kill British acting?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gemma Bodinetz, artistic director of the Liverpool Everyman and Playhouse. Photograph: Eamonn McCabe for the GuardianOne of the reasons that audiences like star casting is not necessary that they think stars are better actors, it’s simply a question of familiarity. Because they’ve seen Kit Harington in Game of Thrones or at the movies, they feel they know him and are willing to take a risk on seeing him in a 400-year-old play called Doctor Faustus, which they might otherwise see as a challenging option. But if the actors in your resident company become local heroes who are deeply embedded in community issues, it can only help to create enduring links between the theatre and the people it serves. It’s a bold move by Liverpool’s bold regime, and I suspect that other regional theatres with ambitions of reimagining their roles in the 21st century will be looking with interest to see how things develop over the first season, and whether it continues.