This week’s pick of city stories from around the web take us from Seattle to the Finnish city of Tampere as we learn more about green transport, Batman’s hometown and a building called “Top Sexy Tower” (seriously). We’d love to hear your responses to these stories, and any others you’ve read recently: share your thoughts in the comments below.Seattle goes electricSeattle’s mayor Ed Murray wants to dramatically increase electric vehicle (EV) use in the city – by 15,000 cars by 2025 – in order to halve greenhouse-gas emissions from the city’s vehicle fleet. The so-called “aggressive plan”, which was announced at the Climate Leadership Conference earlier this month, responds to the fact that transportation makes up the largest share (65%) of Seattle’s greenhouse gas emissions – and aims to significantly improve the city’s air quality. The strategy, termed “Drive Clean”, involves electrifying more of the city’s public transport vehicles as well as promoting the use of private EVs – and relies on the use of Seattle City Light’s carbon-neutral electric energy. Murray hopes that about 120,000 gallons of gas burned in the city fleet each year will be replaced with electricity. Meet 'Bike Batman': Seattle's vigilante reuniting stolen bikes with their owners As Sydney Brownstone writes in The Stranger, Seattle will also “make sure the project is equitable – meaning that the benefits of the program are distributed to the communities that are most adversely impacted by pollution.” Gotham risingFictional it may be, but Batman’s hometown has a powerful place in our collective imaginary, the ultimate future metropolis. Writing in uncube, Elvia Wilk explores the birth of Gotham – from the its genesis as the nickname for New York to the manifestation of Hugh Ferriss’s dark and spellbinding drawings of the future city. “The effect of Ferriss’ aesthetic cannot be underestimated,” writes Wilk, “not just on the DC Comics universe, but on urbanism itself.” Nevertheless, writes Wilk, there are distinctions between his visions and the Caped Crusader’s city: Batman’s Gotham is no modernist city of glass and steel. It’s uneven and post-industrial, with neoclassical remnants of crested, crumbling brick façades wedged alongside gleaming skyscrapers. It is undoubtedly a city where the authorities haven’t been able to control growth, and the modernists haven’t won out against the rise and decline of industry or managed to erase the layers of architectural history. Batman’s Gotham may be highly futuristic, but it’s also deeply nostalgic.Tacky architectureEver thought your city skyline could do with the addition of a skyscraper shaped like a woman’s leg wearing fishnets and heels, called “Top Sexy Tower”? If so, Vasily Klyukin might be the architect for you. CityLab takes a look at the wacky, tacky architecture of this Russian billionaire – who has also designed buildings shaped as ships, cobras and rockets. Tellingly, none of these projects have actually broken ground. We also recommend heading to Klyukin’s website to read his descriptions of his own designs. Regarding Top Sexy Tower, a putative Manhattan project: “The entire NY is beautified with skyscrapers that look like the long sexy legs of those top models who live and work here ... The higher it gets, the more breathtaking it is and this is applicable to the skyscrapers, as well as to the models’ legs.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A rendering of the ‘Top Sexy Tower’. Composite: Vasily KlyukinAlso in CityLab, there’s a great gallery of another kind of kitsch (and in this case largely inoffensive) architecture known as “Cinderella homes”, which gained popularity across the US in the 1950s. Now, however, many stand looking forlorn and forgotten in suburban neighbourhoods – so much for happy ever after.Nokia centralOld Nokia mobiles may be the butt of jokes in this smartphone-reliant era, but the company’s decline hasn’t just changed what we clutch in our hands. As the BBC World Service reports, the Finnish city of Tampere – which once benefitted from the firm’s role in turning the country’s economy into one of the most prosperous in the world – has been hit hard by the shifting industry.“It was the backbone of everything here,” says Kari Kankaala, director of economic and urban development for the city of Tampere. “The universities relied on collaboration with Nokia, the subcontractors depended on Nokia, the kids relied on being employed by Nokia. Now we have an horrendous unemployment situation.” Meanwhile the small town of Nokia – which gave the tech firm its name – can be found 15 minutes down the road from Tampere, just a quiet backwater with a pub and discount supermarket.Housing and segregation in Memphis“Inequality is enforced in Memphis, and it always has been,” writes Preston Lauterbach in a powerful Places essay, which traces the history of racial segregation in Tennessee’s largest city through the lens of housing. Among large US metro areas, Memphis ranks first in both overall and child poverty – and nearly 80% of the poor are black. From decades of biased housing policy that targeted homes for demolition under the banner of “slum clearances” to the burning of a house with cultural significance for the city’s black community, Lauterbach analyses how racial inequality has played out in Memphis at a neighbourhood level. Planning for wellbeingCan we plan our cities to improve mental wellbeing? Writing in the Journal of Urban Design and Mental Health, Rhiannon Corcoran and Graham Marshall argue that there has been little considered thinking on the design of cities and neighbourhoods to match people’s needs, with urban development focusing instead on quotas and profit. As the NHS seeks to create 10 new “healthy towns” across the UK, the article suggests that prioritising community wellbeing can transform the planning and development of the places we live in – but that we should reconsider the simplistic garden city approach, which promised healthy designs and didn’t fully deliver. Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion