“Is the price of Nutella about to soar?” and “Grab the Nutella!” screamed the headlines after bad weather caused a global shortage of hazelnuts last year. Turkey, which produces around 70% of the world’s hazelnut supply, suffered hailstorms and frost in late March, destroying the hazel flowers at a critical moment in the growing season and wiping out almost a third of the harvest. Prices shot up 60%, causing havoc across the supply chain. Importers, which sell contracts to supply hazelnuts throughout the year, were left scrambling for nuts to meet their orders. Michael Stevens, a trader at Freeworld Trading, explains: “If you get a sudden price increase, there will be someone in the supply chain that doesn’t fulfil their contract. Someone defaults, the guy who bought the stuff [under a contract] has to buy it again and that causes more panic. There was quite a lot of that last year.”Confectionery companies have little choice but to continue buying hazelnuts because, in most cases, they cannot be substituted. A spokesperson for Italian group Ferrero, which uses almost a quarter of the world’s supply of hazelnuts to make Ferrero Rocher and Nutella among other products, says: “The hazelnuts are a distinguishing characteristic of Ferrero products and the recipe and quality of ingredients have not been changed or reduced in response to any of the shortages.”Hazelnuts shortfall forces buyers to shell out 60% more for supplies Ferrero has processes in place to deal with the wild fluctuations in commodity prices, it says. “For years now, commodity and raw material markets have grown accustomed to high price volatility. Ferrero is equally accustomed and can manage it adequately. Furthermore, thanks to a proactive purchasing and procurement policy, the group does not expect any Nutella production shortages.” Part of that policy involved buying Oltan, Turkey’s largest hazelnut processor, in July last year. As a result, Ferrero is largely protected from huge price swings. The impact of last year’s poor hazelnut harvest on consumers has so far been relatively muted. Data from mySupermarket.co.uk shows the average price of a 400g jar of Nutella in the UK has remained around the £2 mark for much of the past year. A box of 16 Ferrero Rocher, meanwhile, cost £5 in May last year but has since eased to an average price of £3.49. Rafi Mendelsohn of mySupermarket points out that these are average prices and change rapidly across individual supermarkets from month to month. “As a general point, what we have seen quite clearly is a supermarket price war resulting in fluctuating prices in certain categories, or certain popular products being kept low,” he says. Some manufacturers of hazelnut-based products have opted to buy cheaper forms of the nut to deal with the shortage. It is understood that some are using pastes and small chopped hazelnuts, which are cheaper than whole nuts. Others have been using lower-grade nuts. Consumers may also have noticed a distinct absence of hazelnuts in some products. Stevens says: “We have seen a lot [fewer] hazelnuts used in mixed-nut packets where packers have used more peanuts or cashews.” As a result, demand for hazelnuts dropped by almost 20% last year, according to figures from Oltan. How much do you know about your nuts? This year’s crop, which will be available from September, is expected to return to normal levels. There have been three periods of frost over the past few months that may have damaged some of the crop, but traders say it is too early to gauge their impact. Stevens explains: “We have to really wait until June/July to know the full extent of what the frost damage might have done to the 2015 crop. If the 2015 crop is anywhere near the [average] level, then prices will decrease significantly, as the current prices we are seeing are unsustainable.”Hazelnuts were not the only nut to recently suffer a production crisis. As California enters its fourth year of drought, almond producers have been hit hard, while poor weather affected Italy’s pine nuts. It’s not just weather that threatens the nut supply chain, however. Almost 40% of the world’s cashew nuts are grown in Africa and supply has periodically been halted by political unrest. A military revolt in Guinea-Bissau upset the market for cashew nuts in 2012. Border shutdowns disrupted exports, soldiers blocked road traffic with checkpoints and the junta decreed that all cashews should leave by the country’s poorly maintained port. Investors in Africa’s cashew trade today remain cautious, concerned over whether the fragile political stability will last. Meanwhile, the world’s appetite for nuts continues to grow. Consumption of tree nuts has grown by more than 50% over the past 10 years, according to the International Nut and Dried Fruit Council. Nutella, for its part, has become a food phenomenon around the world, with Nutella heists, a fan-led World Nutella Day and Nutella bars opening across the US. It seems it will take more than a hazelnut shortage to diminish the appeal of a sweet and sticky chocolate-nut spread.The nuts series is funded by Olam. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘brought to you by’. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox.