1 Michael AndrewsAfter being overshadowed by his more emboldened contemporaries Bacon and Freud, this show recalls Andrews’s subtle, searching landscapes. RCGagosian Grosvenor Hill, W1, 20 Jan to 25 Mar2 COUM TransmissionsThis retrospective of the collective founded in Hull in the late 1960s by Genesis P-Orridge forms part of the area’s UK City Of Culture celebrations. RCHumber Street Gallery, Hull, 3 Feb to 22 Mar3 The Place Is HereA survey of black British art in the 1980s, when pioneers Sonia Boyce and John Akomfrah unpicked colonial legacies and reimagined black history. SSNottingham Contemporary, 4 Feb to 30 Apr      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Schicksalslinien/Be-Ziehungen VIII (Lines of Fate/Re-lations VIII) 1994, by Maria Lassnig.4 Bruegel: Defining A DynastyThis exhibition packs in four generations of the family of Flemish art stars. Particular attention will go to Pieter Bruegel The Younger, with a showing of his newly rediscovered Wedding Dance In The Open Air. SSHolburne Museum, Bath, 11 Feb to 4 Jun5 Wolfgang TillmansOne of the most engaging and technically exacting photo artists around, Tillmans shifts from nightclub euphoria to political disgust to eulogies of human vulnerability. RCTate Modern, SE1, 15 Feb to 11 Jun6 Maria LassnigFollowing her knockout Tate Liverpool exhibition, there’s another showcase of the Austrian artist’s tireless autobiographical interrogations. RCHauser & Wirth, W1, 1 Mar to 29 Apr      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Handsworth Songs, by John Akomfrah7 Mark WallingerThis two-part exhibition focuses on the artist’s recent id Paintings, created with both hands working simultaneously. RCFruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh & Dundee Contemporary Arts, 4 Mar to 4 Jun8 Jean Painlevé Painlevé used photography and film to study underwater fauna; through his lens they became miracles of nature’s seemingly infinite variety. RCIkon Gallery, Birmingham, 15 Mar to 4 Jun9 Pink Floyd: Their Mortal RemainsPink Floyd’s sleeve art – from the prism to the inflatable pig – plus stage gear and props will form the V&A’s next blockbuster. SSV&A, SW7, 13 May to 1 Oct10 Seurat To Riley A look at ways in which artists from the impressionists onwards play with perception. RCCompton Verney, nr Warwick, 8 Jul to 30 Sep