Britain looks set to bask in sunshine this weekend, with temperatures higher than in many European destinations, but forecasters also warn that pollution levels will be high across the south-east.London is expected to be warmer than Madrid, Rome and Athens as much of the UK enjoys balmy weather.Matt Dobson, meteorologist at MeteoGroup, said even parts of western Scotland could be treated to sunny weather."Saturday is looking like the warmest day of the weekend, with the highest temperatures in west London and across the M4 corridor towards Bristol," he said. "We are looking at 19 or 20C, possibly 21C." Cumbria could enjoy 18C while 16C is predicted in western Scotland.Dobson said some parts of Britain would be warmer than most Mediterranean destinations, with Madrid expecting 20C and Rome and Athens 19-20C.But a black cloud will hang over the spring sunshine in the south-east where high pollution levels are expected to last into the weekend.Levels of harmful particles are expected to be "high" and "very high" in cities and near roads, according to the government's air quality forecast. Health advice from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) says adults and children with lung problems, adults with heart problems and all older people should not take any "strenuous physical activity" while pollution is at the recorded levels. The general population is advised to reduce exercise too.Not all of the country will be lucky with the weather. "It will be much cooler in eastern parts of Suffolk and the North Sea coast with temperatures between 8C and 10C," Dobson said. "It will be misty and murky at times so head west for the best of the weather."On Sunday, north and west Devon, west Wales and Cornwall are expected to have the best of the weather, just a degree cooler than Saturday. London should see tempuratures of 16C or 17C.On Thursday the temperature topped 20C for the first time in the UK this year. In Otterbourne in Hampshire it was 20.1C.Michael Lawrence, forecaster at the Met Office, said the good weather was set to continue beyond the weekend. "The near outlook looks to be high pressure near and over the UK for much of the next five to seven days with frost still possible but less likely. It is a bit early to call it summer though. These are similar conditions to last April."