The conversation was turning grumpy. A colleague from the UK government summed it up: "It's an awful word. I wouldn't be sad if I never heard it again." The others around the table – from a broad sample of NGOs and consultancies – nodded in agreement.We were talking about "the nexus". For those not in the know, this refers to the profound connections between growing enough food, meeting rising energy needs and ensuring sufficient water for people around the world.There's a strong, though often unspoken, environmental dimension to these challenges.In an increasing number of locations the availability of water is critical for the irrigation of food and biofuel crops. The tremendous demands from economic development mean that rivers, lakes and aquifers are being drained for irrigation. The need for serious action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions means that there's a new drive to build hydropower dams.The nexus is by no means a new idea (I wrote about it in a blog from last year's World Water Week conference). But among policy wonks it seems to have an unstoppable momentum.Our grumpiness wasn't about these issues in themselves. Quite the contrary; they are among the great global challenges of the 21st century. It's absolutely necessary for experts to share ideas about how to tackle food, energy and water security while maintaining our vital ecosystems and biodiversity.It's the language that's the problem. It might work as shorthand for geeks like me but it's not going to set the wider world alight. Specifically, words like "nexus" are almost guaranteed to send politicians and captains of industry to sleep. And it's those decision-makers who we most need to engage if we are to overcome the challenges.The expert community has a track record on this – including the use of "integrated water resources management" (or IWRM if you want to be even more esoteric). These are perfectly sensible concepts and tools. But I've personally heard at least two UK government ministers moan about such obscure terms.One, an intelligent and committed secretary of state for international development, pretty much refused to talk about IWRM until we translated it into clear questions: How much water do you have? Who needs it? How do you get it to them? What happens if you don't have enough water – who gets it and who doesn't? What happens to the water after people have finished using it?In 2011, when I was a rapporteur for the World Water Week conference, I had the temerity to mention the issue of language during the closing plenary (I had been asked what I thought of the concept of "hydrosolidarity" – another piece of jargon which unhelpfully masks a useful idea). The master of ceremonies – an influential figure among IWRM experts – wasn't impressed.But the point remains: we water nerds need to get much better at communicating our ideas to the powers that be.I need to walk the walk on this too. I'll have an opportunity soon: WWF and partners often work to produce insights into the development of food, energy and water resources across the world. We try to get beyond the theory and language of "the nexus" to identify opportunities for using natural resources to meet economic development goals in a sustainable manner, building on real-world lessons and ensuring the maintenance or restoration of critical ecosystems.One of our challenges is framing the output in language that will resonate with our intended audience – political and economic decision-makers and influencers. So we also need to find more compelling and attractive alternatives to the N word.Dave Tickner is head of freshwater at WWF-UKThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox