The history of video games has seen many fine upstanding leaders, prime ministers and presidents. Stoic Marion Bosworth from Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 who instigates the fight back against cyber terrorist Raul Menendez; The President in Saint’s Row IV who must defend their country against an alien invasion; and who can forget President Ronnie in Bad Dudes who remains steadfast in his love of burgers, even after being kidnapped by DragonNinja?But sometimes these digitised demagogues fare less well, and understandably, it’s these more troublesome characters that have come to mind this week. So here are what we feel are the six worst US presidents in games history. Add your own candidates in the comments section.Howard T Ackerman, Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nightmare scenario … Howard T Ackerman in Command & Conquer. Photograph: Virgin InteractiveYou had one job: In an alternate 20th century timeline where Japan seeks world domination, Ackerman is tasked with forging an alliance with the Soviets to mount a defence of Europe. Instead, Ackerman decides to destroy Moscow with a super weapon hidden under Mount Rushmore.Impeachment rating: pretty much the nightmare scenario. 5/5George Sears, AKA Solidus Snake, Metal Gear Solid series      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ruthless, crazed patriot … Solidus Snake. Photograph: KonamiYou had one job: Appearing as the 43rd president of the US in Metal Gear Solid, Sears is the product of a covert genetic program to create super soldier clones. A ruthless, crazed patriot, Solidus quits office to head up an ultra-nationalist terror group, becoming the main antagonist of Metal Gear Solid 2.Impeachment rating: leading an armed insurrection while wearing a bullet-proof exoskeleton with giant blade arms is considered poor presidential form. 5/5Noah Grace, Resistance: Fall of Man  Staunchly isolationist … Noah Grace on a poster. Photograph: SonyYou had one job: In an alternative 1940s reality, staunchly isolationist president Noah Grace is elected amid an invasion by nightmarish aliens known as the Chimera. Against the wishes of his intelligence staff, he organises a sneaky deal with the extraterrestrials agreeing to hand over the rest of the world in return for America’s safety. Impeachment rating: honestly, these days, who knows? 2/5.Adam Benford, Resident Evil 6      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Resident Evil 6’s Adam Benford Photograph: CapcomYou had one job: When Benford discovers the previous administration covered up a zombifying viral outbreak in Racoon City, he resolves to lift the lid on the conspiracy. Unfortunately, he fails to anticipate that senior government figure Derek C Simmons is part of a shadowy world order determined to release a new virus in Tall Oaks, infecting the president and many thousands of others. Benford transforms into a monster and is shot by Leon Kennedy.Impeachment rating: it’s a bit late now, frankly. 2/5Joe Lawton, Grand Theft Auto IVYou had one job: Barely seen in Rockstar’s gangster epic, this product of a patriotic presidential dynasty does get time to pass the Jingoism Act (a faintly disguised parody of the Patriot Act), which gives government the power to spy on citizens and requires the populace to be positive about America at all times.Impeachment rating: Joe Lawton is a fine president and America is thriving. 0/5John Henry Eden, Fallout 3      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Delusional AI … John Henry Eden, Fallout 3. Photograph: BethesdaYou had one job: in a post-apocalyptic America, Eden becomes leader of the powerful Enclave faction of survivors, assuming the job title of US president. He is in fact a highly advanced yet delusional AI, which based its inspirational backstory on the childhood of Abraham Lincoln. It wants to start a new civil war and rule an America cleansed of undesirable mutants.Impeachment rating: he’s not the messiah, he’s a very naughty bot. 4/5.Gravity Rush 2 review: boundless fun if you ignore the storyline