The ballerina Violette Verdy, who has died aged 82 after a stroke, will be vividly remembered through the roles created for her, principally after her career took her from her native France to the US. Her light, easy jump, beautiful feet, intelligent musicality and sparkling personality can all still be seen in those works, even when danced today by other performers. Wit and exceptional musicality combined with a pure classical technique were her hallmarks. One of her partners, Edward Villella, said she was “the most musical dancer I have ever met”.In 1957 she was invited to join American Ballet Theatre as a guest artist for an arduous coast-to-coast tour, and it was here she had her first introduction to the choreography of George Balanchine. She also had a considerable success in the New York premiere of Birgit Cullberg’s Miss Julie, dancing the title role opposite the supremely gifted Erik Bruhn, with whom she formed a friendship both on and off stage. “His classical purity, even in Miss Julie, helped me retain my own,” she remarked.At the end of the 1958 season the company disbanded but Violette received an invitation to join Balanchine’s company, New York City Ballet, where she was to become one of its best-loved dancers. Small, blonde and slender, but with a feminine softness to her physique, she was not the usual model of a tall, long-legged, small-headed Balanchine dancer. She later speculated that it was the clean and expressive way she used her feet and legs that attracted him, but her soaring jump and the joyfulness of her dancing must also have played a part.Whatever the reason, she was a valued member of the company, and in addition to casting her in the existing repertory, Balanchine created a number of roles to showcase her gifts, including Liebeslieder Walzer, the joyous Tchaikovsky pas de deux, and the beautiful and mysterious Emeralds, in which she has never been surpassed. She was also an inspiration for Jerome Robbins, who gave her two variations in Dances at a Gathering and a role in In the Night to which she brought multiple layers of meaning. Guest appearances with companies such as the Royal Ballet, Paris Opéra Ballet and Hamburg Ballet allowed her opportunities to dance classics such as The Sleeping Beauty, Swan Lake and La Sylphide, in addition to specially created roles.She was born in Pont-l’Abbé, on the coast of Brittany. Her father, Renan Guillerm, ran the general store founded by his father, and her mother, Jeanne (nee Chateaureynaud), was a primary school teacher. The little girl, their first and only child, was named Nelly Armande. Little more than a year after her birth her father died, resulting in an especially close bond between mother and daughter.Plagued by childhood illnesses, Nelly was nonetheless full of life. Jeanne reasoned that dance classes would be good for her, a view supported by the family doctor. Granted leave from her teaching job, she took her daughter to Paris, the centre of dance training, despite the difficulties caused by the German occupation of France.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Excerpt from Violette Verdy: The Artist Teacher – videoNelly studied first, briefly, with Carlotta Zambelli, then with Madame Rousane and, later, Victor Gsovsky. It was in Rousane’s class that she was spotted by a fellow student, Roland Petit, who asked her to appear in a new ballet he was making, Le Poète. So it was that in 1945 she made her professional debut at the age of 11, shortly afterwards joining Petit’s Ballets des Champs Élysées.Although she continued her lessons with Rousane and her academic studies, she was now effectively a professional dancer. In 1949 she starred in the film Ballerina (released in the US as Dream Ballerina), and it was at this point that she changed her name to the more glamorous Violette Verdy.Her roles becoming ever more important, she danced with Ballet de Marigny, at Florence’s Maggio Musicale, and with Les Ballets de Paris de Roland Petit, where she created the role of the bride in Le Loup. She guested with London Festival Ballet (now English National Ballet), took leading roles at La Scala, Milan, and appeared with Ballet Rambert, where she added the heroines of Coppélia and Giselle to her repertoire, roles that were to become closely associated with her.Verdy retired from dancing in 1977 to become director of the Paris Opéra Ballet, which she left in 1980. She became associate and then director of the Boston Ballet but from 1984 concentrated on teaching and coaching, working with New York City Ballet, the Royal Ballet, La Scala and the Bolshoi. Some of her recorded coaching sessions reveal the extraordinary mix of practical advice and inspiration she brought to that role. From 1996 onwards, she headed the ballet programme of Indiana University’s Jacobs School of Music.Verdy received multiple honours, most notably, from the French government, Chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et Lettres and Chevalier de l’Ordre National de la Légion d’Honneur. She also wrote several children’s books on ballet.A brief marriage, in 1964, to Colin Clark, younger son of the art historian Kenneth Clark, was dissolved.• Violette Verdy (Nelly Guillerm), ballerina, born 1 December 1933; died 8 February 2016