Former BBC presenter Iain Lee said he was “flabbergasted” after the corporation’s trust ruled an interview in which he labelled anti-gay views as bigotry broke its editorial guidelines.Lee, a former presenter of Channel 4’s The 11 O’Clock Show, left his breakfast slot on BBC Three Counties Radio after the clash with a Christian lawyer and a former prison worker who cited verses from the Bible listing homosexuality as a sin.Lee told lawyer Libby Powell: “Do you support bigotry? Yes, homophobia is bigotry … People like you break my heart because you’re doing Christianity and religion a real disservice.”BBC's Iain Lee 'broke rules' by attacking guest's anti-gay views He later told the preacher, who was claiming constructive dismissal at an employment tribunal: “I find the view that being gay is sinful, I find that view completely repugnant and disgraceful.”The trust’s editorial complaints unit said it was a “serious breach” of the BBC’s editorial guidelines for impartiality. It said Lee “did not show due impartiality” and behaved in an “inappropriately combative manner”.Lee said on Twitter: “Genuinely, I’m flabbergasted. The report contains examples of where I was wrong. Apart from one line, I kept replying ‘what’s wrong with that?’”Iain Lee (@iainlee)Genuinely,I'm flabbergasted. The report contains examples of where I was wrong. Apart from 1 line, I kept replying 'what's wrong with that?'March 8, 2016“Honestly, I don’t know what I did wrong.”Iain Lee (@iainlee)Honestly, I don't know what I did wrong.March 8, 2016He added: “Jesus, if that is his name, loves gays. And lesbians. And bisexuals. And transgender people. And you won’t go to hell. Right. I’m off. Ta ta.”Iain Lee (@iainlee)Jesus, if that is his name, loves gays. And lesbians. And bisexuals. And transgender people. And you won't go to hell. Right. I'm off. Ta taMarch 8, 2016Lee said the interview and the subsequent fallout was reason why he no longer worked for Three Counties Radio, which broadcasts to Herts, Bucks and Bedfordshire.He left the station less than two weeks after the interview, on 16 November, and is part of the lineup for TalkSport owner the Wireless Group’s new-look Talk Radio, which will launch on digital radio later this month.The BBC Trust, in its ruling, said the combative style of the interview might deter listeners from phoning in if they felt they would not receive a fair hearing.Media regulator Ofcom received six complaints about the interview but decided in December last year not to launch a formal investigation.The BBC Trust investigated the interview under its editorial guidelines on impartiality, which falls outside Ofcom’s remit. Ofcom assessed the six complaints it received against the harm and offence section of the Broadcasting Code. The BBC issued an apology a week after the interview, on 10 November, and Lee read out an on-air apology the following day.Lee told the trust he stood by the interviews in terms of both their content and tone, but regretted a comment in which he referred to Christians behaving in a “horrible, patronising way”.The BBC, in its evidence to the trust, said it was part of a wider problem across its local radio.“A number of incidents at different local radio stations had highlighted the risks involved in presenters finding ways to engage audience interest in phone-ins and debates,” it said.“Teams needed to engage listeners without causing unnecessary offence or leaving presenters appearing less than impartial.”