"One man scorned and covered with scars still strove with his last ounce of courage to reach the unreachable stars; and the world will be better for this."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "The pen is the tongue of the soul; as are the thoughts engendered there, so will be the things written."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "Better a witty fool than a foolish wit."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "Too much sanity may be madness and the maddest of all, to see life as it is and not as it should be."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "Hell is empty and all the devils are here."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "Tell me thy company, and I'll tell thee what thou art."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods; they kill us for their sport."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "Reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit, and lost without deserving."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "The eyes those silent tongues of love."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare "Love sought is good, but given unsought, is better."   Miguel de Cervantes    William Shakespeare You got…Forsooth!Forsooth!Forsooth!For the man from Lepanto "To be prepared is half the victory." Maybe you should do a little more reading and try again. As the Bard declared: "Have patience, and endure!"For the man from Lepanto "To be prepared is half the victory." Maybe you should do a little more reading and try again. As the Bard declared: "Have patience, and endure!"For the man from Lepanto "To be prepared is half the victory." Maybe you should do a little more reading and try again. As the Bard declared: "Have patience, and endure!"Thou cream-faced loon! We're quoting Shakespeare's Macbeth there - not that you'd know. Try again!Thou cream-faced loon! We're quoting Shakespeare's Macbeth there - not that you'd know. Try again!Thou cream-faced loon! We're quoting Shakespeare's Macbeth there - not that you'd know. Try again!Thou cream-faced loon! We're quoting Shakespeare's Macbeth there - not that you'd know. Try again!Challenge your friendsSubmit answers