Michael Meacher was my friend and colleague for more than 30 years. We were on the same side in the ferocious struggle for the soul of the Labour party in the late 1970s, and later served together as ministers in Tony Blair’s government.Michael combined a razor-sharp intellect and boyish charm with an engaging naivety that he never lost during his 45 years in parliament. An unrepentant Bennite, a label fatal to many a political career, he was widely respected for his ability to master a brief and his capacity for hard work. As a result, during the long years of opposition he was regularly re-elected to the shadow cabinet and held half a dozen frontbench posts, in all of which he performed with distinction.Michael Meacher obituary Michael was not popular with the New Labour elite, not least because he never troubled to conceal his disdain for them. Indeed for an ambitious man – and he was ambitious – he was remarkably indiscreet. When we served together in government I several times had to caution him to keep his voice down to avoid being overheard by civil servants as he cheerfully denounced what he regarded as the latest New Labour folly.Although Blair appointed him environment minister after the Labour landslide of 1997, he was not expected to last long. Rumours of his impending demise preceded every reshuffle, and yet he survived for six years and is widely regarded as the most successful environment minister. Against all predictions and in the teeth of resistance from landowners, he introduced a legally enforceable public right to roam across mountain, moorland, heath and downs. He forced the water companies to invest more, cut prices and stop dumping untreated sewage. He resisted pressure from his political masters to allow farmers to grow genetically modified crops until fears of cross-pollination were resolved and, thanks to his ability to master technical detail, he played an important part in the Kyoto summit on climate change.Despite having tasted the inside of government, Michael never lost his radical streak or his infectious good humour. Above all, he never succumbed to weariness or cynicism. I shall remember him with affection.