In a sunlit woodland clearing in north London, six comedians are about to embark on a treasure hunt. More specifically, it’s the 15th annual April Fools’ Day eve Easter egg hunt, involving “7,000 eggs” hidden in the “backyard” (Highgate Wood). It’s also the premise for a third superlatively silly episode of their new monthly webseries, 2016: Year Friends.Comedy Feeds: People Time – the sketch show rises from the dead A labour of love for the writer-actors who make up its cast, the show comprises Daran “Jonno” Johnson, Al Roberts and Edinburgh comedy award-nominee Liam Williams (otherwise known as sketch trio Sheeps), siblings Jamie and Natasia Demetriou, and Ellie White (Rachel in House Of Fools). It was created after the BBC decided not to order a series of their much-enthused-about sketch show pilot People Time (“If the long-floundering Great British sketch show has any chance of relevancy again, this is it,” I said in the Guardian. Other people also thought it was good). Clearly, though, the group don’t need TV commissioners to grant them a licence to act stupidly on camera. It’s 2016 after all and, as 2016: Year Friends proves, they can do that all by themselves.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Whereas People Time was a relatively traditional sketch show, 2016, liberated from the notes of television executives, is a far weirder and more impressionistic affair. Each episode is written by a different member of the group, and a kind of sketchy sitcom results. Liam Williams explains the plot so far: “The gang got together and set some new year’s resolutions. We found out Al is going to die so we’re hurtling towards his sad demise. Also Tash has become pregnant. There have been various love rivalries. And Jonno continues to fail to go upstairs.”Skit crit: Sheeps, Beasts and the new breed of sketch show If that sounds stupid, it’s because it is. But 2016 isn’t so much about a story as a state of mind. The creators got to know each other at the Edinburgh fringe in 2010, where they identified kindred spirits; Jamie describes Sheeps, apparently sincerely, as “the first thing that I’d seen for ages which was like the excitement I had watching Friends on a Friday night when I was younger”. Eventually they all came together in a more formal sense, performing on cult promoter Invisible Dot Ltd’s New Wave bill in 2013.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I said occult…Jamie describes the group’s collective sense of humour as “sort of laugh comedy”, but an instinctive hysteria also seems to dictate the tone of the show. The most overwhelming impression you get from watching is of a world where everyone has come down with a severe case of cabin fever: like when you spend too much time with your siblings and completely lose touch with the founding principles of civility. This, says the cast, is a symptom of nearly everybody having lived together at some point, with the three members of Sheeps sharing a house around “the time we tried to give up full time work and probably went for days and days without seeing anybody else.” says Liam.Edinburgh comedy awards 2014 shortlist: why Liam Williams should win Although the show is silly, 2016 is still an attempt to push things forward. They want to “surprise people”, says Liam, and the most common reason for rejecting an idea is that someone has heard something similar before. At the same time they want to avoid creating something “that’s just like random humour” he says. “The stuff that makes us laugh as a group tends to be jokes where it would take a while to figure out why you’re laughing.” says Jonno. Sometimes this means placing emphasis on the details. Jonno’s continuing failure to climb any stairs is, he says, “an exercise in sticking to the absolute smallest plot point you possibly can”. The fact their comedy is a product of both their close friendships and an eagerness to make something innovative means the group occassionally worry that their comedy is too insider-ish. “We don’t want to exclude anyone,” says Jamie, but console themselves with the idea that “the most cherished comedy out there must have started as an in-joke. It all would have done because it’s new stuff people haven’t heard before.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Team work…A formative influence for the gang, who are all in their mid-20s, was the turn of the millennium mockumentary boom (The Office, That Peter Kay Thing), but also the nascent reality TV genre that served as an inspiration for those same shows. “If I was to really look for the source it would probably be late-90s reality TV, when no one really got how to be on TV,” says Jamie. “Darius [from Popstars] is the best character of all time,” agrees Ellie, while Natasia cites early Come Dine With Me as a high point. It’s also clear they owe something to the bizarre groundwork supplied by fellow Invisible Dot and Footlights alumni Cowards, whose brief eponymous sketch show aired on BBC4 in 2009, as well as the claustrophobic absurdism practised by the Comic Strip comics, from Bottom to the goings on in French And Saunders’ white room.Establishing themselves at a time when “TV comedy” is in flux – since going online-only BBC3 has, for example, changed its commissioning to include not only short-form sketches but “listicles”, “memes” and “gifs” – the group say they feel as if they exist in a cultural limbo between the old school and the new. As Jamie puts it, “I’m listening to Zayn but missing Brass Eye.” It is hard to ignore the fact that social media is currently a conduit for an almost unstoppable barrage of ‘humour’ - from Twitter jokes and Instagram captions to vlogger inanity and the monstrous creations of face swap apps, it feels like everything is designed to provide instantaneous, if fleeting, amusement.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hi-tech: filming 2016: Year Friends“Life’s a lot funnier now” nods Jonno. But while the group dismiss that strain of disposable internet humour as “a different game” (Al) and “a PR and marketing world” (Tash), television executives are clearly keener to siphon off some of this new industry’s appeal. The group say that the BBC originally wanted People Time to be an “internet-based comedy show”, presumably in order to win over a younger demographic. “The ironic thing about it is we don’t get it, and the people telling us to make something about it don’t get it” says Jamie. Jonno agrees: “You’ve got people in their 50s telling people in their 20s what to do for people in their teens”.But despite continuing to favour the thoughtful subversion of much beloved British comedy over the viral humour of the net, the webseries format has contributed to the evolution of the group’s style. It’s now, “Let’s put something on the page and shoot it in a day,” says Jamie. Overall, it has made for a more spontaneous, unpredictable and, admittedly, pretty ramshackle type of show. I ask the gang what the rest of 2016 holds. “Oh, you’ll see!”, they say, “And so will we!” •2016: Year Friends is on Vimeo now. You can watch the new episode below   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 