The Crystal Maze SU2C Celebrity Special 9pm, Channel 4As part of a Stand Up To Cancer fundraising effort which also includes Child Genius Vs Celebrities, here’s a revival of the labyrinthine gameshow hosted by Stephen Merchant. This one features a team led by Rio Ferdinand and including Michelle Keegan, Sara Cox and Josh Widdicombe. They’ll face challenges in the Aztec, Medieval, Future and Industrial zones to earn time for their final test in the Crystal Dome. David Stubbs Poldark 9pm, BBC1Ross’s hot and cold relationship with the smuggling community is a big part of tonight’s episode. While Dwight and Caroline plan to run away together, Ross tries to solve his mining problems with a Scilly Isles minibreak to chat to Mark Daniel about Grace’s hidden depths. Dwight learns that Ross’s return to shore is not likely to be without problems, and duly smells and unmasks an informant. As usual, Poldark swashbucklingly abides, but it’s far from an easy ride. John RobinsonWild West: America’s Great Frontier 9pm, BBC2The second episode of this handsome travelogue moseys out to the high country sprawled between the Sierra Nevada and the Rockies. A region of meteorological extremes, it demands both persistence and ingenuity of its wildlife and human settlers; from the grizzlies sifting through boulder fields to scarf up fatty moths to the ranchers jury-rigging giant haystacks so their longhorns survive the harsh winters. Graeme VirtueTutankhamun 9pm, ITVThis new dramatisation of the discovery of Tutankhamun’s tomb sees handsome firebrand archeologist Howard Carter brought to maverick life by Max Irons (son of Jeremy). His benefactor Lord Carnarvon (Sam Neill) arrives in Egypt when most archaeologists believe the Valley of the Kings is finished. But Carter is having none of it and is rewarded with one of the biggest finds of all time. It plays rather fast and loose with the facts but it means well. Ben ArnoldStoryville: Moazzam Begg – Living The War On Terror 10pm, BBC4How did British Muslim Moazzam Begg end up in Guantánamo Bay? Ashish Ghadiali’s deceptively straightforward Storyville documentary, essentially a long interview with its subject, shows us events from Begg’s perspective. The result is a film that raises difficult questions about the way the British authorities deal with those who are deemed to be dangerous. “I wasn’t anti-state” says Begg. “The state was anti-me.” Jonathan WrightHarry Hill’s Tea-Time 6pm, Sky1Following the wildly successful TV Burp, pickings have been slim for Harry, with his film, X Factor musical and Stars In Their Eyes reboot all failing to find favour. Now he’s back in familiar territory, desk and studio audience in tow, black-rimmed sights set on the world of cookery programmes. A sub-genre TV Burp might seem unappetising, but given the mileage Hill was able to wring from Freaky Eaters, this could well be worth tasting. Paul Hollywood is his first guest. Mark Gibbings-Jones Yonderland 6.30pm, Sky1The tea-time traumatiser that brings joy for children and adults alike returns. Smirkingly named elder Cuddly Dick (Stephen Fry in a generous wig) enjoys a warm welcome home after a long stretch at evil empress Imperatrix’s pleasure. Negatus wants to take control of Yonderland now she’s gone, but he’s going to have competition. In the real world, Debbie’s husband has been offered a job in Glasgow. Where would a move leave her magical cupboard? Hannah VerdierFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The dark side of the moon … Sam Rockwell in Moon. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd./Allstar/SonyMidnight’s Children(Deepa Mehta, 2012) Sunday, 11.10pm, BBC1There’s a big, satisfying sweep to Mehta’s film version of Salman Rushdie’s Booker prize-winning novel, adapted and narrated by the author himself. It’s the story of two babies swapped at birth by a political-activist midwife at the moment India gains independence in 1947. Satya Bhabha is Saleem, who grows up wealthy in Mumbai, while Siddharth Narayan is beggar’s son Shiva, their conflicted identities mirroring the struggles of their newly freed nation. It’s a rich experience. Paul HowlettRed Lights(Rodrigo Cortés, 2012), 11.20pm, Film4Red Lights is rather more expansive than Cortés’s thriller Buried, but once again he creates a chilly atmosphere with shocks. Sigourney Weaver and Cillian Murphy are a pair of paranormal activity investigators who expose fraudsters and set their sights on the blind occult superstar Simon Silver (Robert De Niro). It doesn’t quite sustain the tension, but makes for solid entertainment. PHMoon(Duncan Jones, 2009), 11.30pm, Sony Movie ChannelSam Rockwell’s mining engineer Sam Bell is at the end of his lonely three-year vigil on the dark side of the moon with only computer Gerty (smoothly voiced by Kevin Spacey) for company. But the arrival of what appears to be another human has him questioning reality. There are shades of 2001: A Space Odyssey and Solaris in Jones’s impressive debut. PHStoker(Park Chan-wook, 2013), 12.10am, Channel 4This first US feature from the Korean director of the Vengeance trilogy is a weird and wild updating of Hitchcock’s Shadow Of A Doubt. The scene is a big ol’ house in rural Tennessee, where apparently charming Uncle Charlie (Matthew Goode) comes to stay, and work his psychopathic trickery on the womenfolk – Mia Wasikowska, Nicole Kidman – in particular. A gloriously OTT slice of southern gothic. PHToday’s best live sportPremier League Football: Middlesbrough v Watford 12.30pm, Sky Sports 1All the action from the Riverside Stadium (Kick-off 1.30pm). Rugby Union: Bordeaux-Begles v Ulster 12.30pm, Sky Sports 3More Champions Cup action from the opening round of fixtures, this time from Stade Chaban-Delmas (Kick-off 1pm).Cycling: Road World Championships 2.30pm, BBC2The men’s road race from Qatar.