My mother, Mary Thomas, who has died aged 85, trained as a textile designer at the Royal College of Art in London in the late 1940s. In the 50s, she designed fabrics for industry, including a moquette for London Underground, and she exhibited at the Design Centre London in 1958.In the late 50s she was offered a prestigious design job in Turin but after discussion with her husband, the sculptor Robert Thomas, turned it down in order to remain in London, which they felt would be better for them both. They taught at Ealing Art School until the end of the 60s, and in 1969 Mary was in her element co-designing a modernist house in Chiswick for our family.As a youngster, she had wanted to be an architect. She was born in Barry, south Wales, the only child of George Gardiner, a fitter, and his wife, Ellen (nee Kelly), who was later a shopkeeper. Mary started at the local girls’ grammar school at the age of 10. She was the only student in the immediate postwar period to win a scholarship from Cardiff School of Art to go to the RCA. There she studied woven textiles under Professor Margaret Leischner, who had taught at the Bauhaus.From the outset she stood out, winning a Cotton Board travel scholarship to Paris, Zurich and northern Italy. As a student she met and befriended the Festival of Britain furniture designer Ernest Race, who was best man at her wedding in 1952.In the early 70s, she returned to Barry with Robert and us children (me, my sister, Sara, and brother, Derw) and her career went on the back burner – due also to the continuing decline in the British woven textiles industry. She didn’t see this negatively, and often said that designing the interiors of her three successive homes in south Wales, and nurturing all of us, was a very rewarding alternative.One of her favourite bits of advice was “you can have anything you want but not everything you want”. A paraphrase of Abraham Lincoln’s dictum, this was all about aspiration and single-mindedness tempered by realism and moderation – pragmatic idealism, not consumerism – and it summed her up.She dug deep when necessary and did some art teaching in her 40s and 50s. She exhibited in a group show at the Albany Gallery, Cardiff in 1989. After my father’s death in 1999, she carried the torch for his sculpture and represented him at the unveiling of his IK Brunel statue by the Prince of Wales in Pembrokeshire in 1999. Six years later, she helped to bring to fruition a major project to place a set of Robert’s bronze sculptures in the centre of Cardiff. Robert and Mary had first met there in 1947.She is survived by Sara, Derw and me, and by two grandchildren.