From the opening lines of “any man in possession of a large fortune must be in want of a wife” comes one of the most memorable of novels in the history of the world.Set in the early 1800s, in the fictional town of Merton, live the Bennett family, who are comfortably well off with a family of five daughters. However, there is one misfortune - there is no son. This is because the house must have a male heir, so the daughters can’t inherit it. Therefore, they have to marry or live off a male relative, or the final option was to become a governess, which wasn’t glamourous. Although it must have been possible to change the will so the women could inherit, it would ruin the story. Therefore Mrs Bennett, their silly empty-headed mother, is obsessed with marrying them off. The daughters are: 22 year old Jane, the most beautiful young woman in the neighbourhood, who is sweet, kind and sensible but thinks well of everyone and is rather naive. Then there is 20 year old Elizabeth, mostly known as Lizzie or sometimes Eliza, who is the heroine of the novel and witty, clever and lively, but not as beautiful as Jane. Both sister’s want to marry for love, as they can’t stand the idea of an unromantic marriage. However, one of the daughters must marry very well, and love in marriage was of little consequence in those days.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lizzie is much like her father in the fact that they both like to laugh at ridiculous things. However, she is sensible, but has the misfortune to make hasty judgements. Then there is Mary who is 18 /19 years old, who thinks she is accomplished but isn’t, and quotes things from boring books and plays and sings awfully. Then there is 17 year old Kitty, who is silly and empty headed, and 15 year old Lydia, the youngest, silliest and the most man-mad of them all. Therefore when Charles Bingley and young gentlemen with large fortunes come into the neighbourhood, she gets very excited.They first meet him at a ball, and he and Jane soon fall in love. He is the male version of Jane, but this romance is looked down on by his sisters who think he could do better. His even richer friend, 28 year old Fitzwilliam Darcy, is one of the richest men in Derbyshire, but finds himself against his own principles attracted to Lizzie. However, he is repulsed by her awful family and lack of connections, and the neighbourhood and particularly Lizzie find him snobby and arrogant. Meanwhile, Mr Collins, heir to their house Longbourne, is a 25 year old pompous cousin of theirs and a clergymen (Jane Austen seems to be fond of poking fun at clergymen).Mrs Bennett sets her eyes on a marriage between him and Lizzie, who will have none of it. A regiment of soldiers soon come into Merton, and Kitty and Lydia go wild. Lizzie finds herself attracted to a handsome young officer George Wickham, but why do he and Mr Darcy dislike each other so much? Will Lizzie ever like Mr Darcy, and is he is as terrible as seems? Are George Wickham’s stories true, or is there more to him than meets the eye?How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? I think the plot is very witty and amusing, and it is an interesting insight into what women’s life was like at the time. Equally, I love the wonderful and spirited Lizzie Bennett, with her wit and humour. Also, I like the way the Bennett’s are portrayed, and the way Mrs Bennett is obsessed with marrying the daughters off, and how Mr Bennett and the daughters put up with it. I also like the way Jane Austen makes fun of people. She pokes fun at Lady Catherine, who is Mr Darcy’s aunt, and she ridicules the upper class all the time.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!