At 7am on 12 February, 37-year-old wildlife ranger Rodrick Ngulube was gunned down by poachers in Zambia’s West Petauke game management area, according to reports from the country’s Game Rangers Association. Ngulube and fellow rangers had been tracking seven poachers since the night before when the incident occurred. The slain ranger is survived by his wife and seven children.The sound of a gunshot the day before had set off the team of six rangers, including Ngulube, to track down its source. Forced to give up the search when it got dark, the team picked up the poachers’ trail again the next morning until they discovered the carcasses of a warthog and zebra. Another day, another dead wildlife ranger. Where is the outrage? | Sean Willmore “As they were trying to search the area they heard a gun shot and a scream from one of the rangers. When they reached [Rodrick Ngulube] for possible first aid, it was too late,” said William Soko, chair of the Game Rangers’ Association of Zambia.The poachers who killed Ngulube remain at large, but the government of Zambia said it is pursuing them. The tourism and arts minister, Charles Banda, told local reporters that ZAWA’s (Department of National Parks and Wildlife) rangers should not lose heart over the death. “I urge the officers not to give up, but step up their patrols,” he said. “Government will do everything possible to supplement the efforts that you are putting in to combat the crime that seems to be on the upswing.”Located in the Luangwa Valley, West Petauke game management area covers more than 4,000 square kilometres and is home to many iconic African species. While considered a conservation area, West Petauke is also open to trophy hunting, including for elephants, lions and leopards. Zambia initiated a ban on trophy hunting in 2013, but lifted it 20 months later due to a loss in revenue, according to authorities. As the illegal wildlife trade – targeting everything from elephants and rhinos to pangolins and lions – decimates animal populations worldwide, rangers in many countries put their lives on the line every day. The Thin Green Line Foundation, which supports the families of rangers who have lost their lives, says 112 rangers were killed in the line of duty in 2015 worldwide.Of course, the human toll of this wildlife war includes poachers as well, many of whom are killed in firefights with the rangers protecting endangered species. Some parks, such as Kaziranga in India, have initiated the controversial policy of shooting poachers on sight. Officials have returned Ngulube’s remains to his home village where it was buried. “[Ngulube’s] wife is devastated and cried all the way to the grave, wondering how she will keep and educate the children,” Soko said.