Imagine if everything you believed about the person you’ve been married to for the past 20 years turned out to be lies. That’s the basis for a striking new BBC TV thriller, Undercover, which draws on the real-life cases of women tricked into long-term relationships by undercover police officers, a story broken in the Observer in March 2010.The original Observer report, written by Tony Thompson, detailed how an undercover officer, known only as Officer A, who had spent four years infiltrating anti-racist groups, had also formed relationships with two of his female targets “as a way of obtaining intelligence”. It sparked an investigation by the Guardian, which led in turn to the establishment of the Pitchford inquiry.Last week Lord Justice Pitchford held a two-day hearing to establish how much of the inquiry, which will examine the police force’s undercover infiltration of political groups since 1968, should be held in private. The police have argued that to make evidence to the inquiry public would endanger officers and their families, but those who were spied on believe that without a public hearing the full extent of the undercover operations will never be known. A ruling is expected on 3 May.“Between 1968 and 2008, 460 organisations and institutions were infiltrated and spied on by police forces in this country,” said Peter Moffat, the creator of Undercover. “Yet right now, we know about so few of them – so the question to me became: what about the ones we don’t know about? Are there officers still in place and still in relationships whom we don’t know about? I strongly believe the answer may well be yes.”Thompson, who broke the original story, agrees. “What surprised me most when I first spoke to Officer A was the level of it,” he said. “There were undercover officers who had children and officers who were in very, very long-term relationships. To have taken it to that degree was utterly shocking. For the people who were spied on, both those who had been in long-term relationships and those who had formed deep friendships with these officers, that level of betrayal was devastating.”As part of his research into Undercover, Moffat met Helen Steel, one of seven women who sued the Metropolitan police after discovering that she had been in a two-year relationship with an undercover police officer whom she first met at a meeting of a London environmental campaign group. The group won an apology and an undisclosed compensation sum from the Met last November. Are there officers still in relationships whom we don’t know about? The answer may well be yes Peter Moffat, TV creatorPeter Moffat, TV creator “Helen Steel is a brilliant, strong woman,” says Moffat. “These women have stood together and meet to work through what a terrible trauma this has been. Naturally, they’re all angry and traumatised by what’s happened.“It also causes them to doubt everything else in their lives from this period. One of their biggest problems is that the law ruled that it wasn’t possible to prosecute any of these men for rape, which is hard for them to understand because they were having sex with someone who wasn’t who they said they were.”Moffat says that he was interested in putting both sides of the story in Undercover. The series tells the story of Maya (played by Sophie Okonedo), who starts a legal career in civil rights activism before becoming a respected barrister. She is poised to become the first black director of public prosecutions. Her husband Nick (Adrian Lester) is seemingly a loving family man and perfect father to their three teenage children, but he has been working undercover for 20 years.“My big question was: what if, 20 years ago, Adrian Lester’s character met this woman who was loosely attached to a black civil rights organisation and saw her as way into the group?“But he never expected her career to develop as it has and now she’s going to be the next DPP. So there you are at the Metropolitan police and there’s a chance that this new DPP might push hard about this death in police custody case that’s plagued you for all this time, but you have the perfect person in place to spy on her and find out what she’s going to do. So you get nasty. You ask him to start working again.”Moffat also admits that he was driven not just by Maya’s reaction to her husband’s deceit, but what would drive Nick to stay under cover for so long. “I am really interested in the men who are doing this,” admits Moffat. “I don’t think anyone can come out of this other than damaged by the experience of pretending to be different people, sometimes for years on end. I think it’s unbelievably hard to function like that, but I also think, and this is the key to my story, that it’s possible to betray someone fundamentally and also be in love with them.“Nick does love Maya, but the problem is that he can never tell her how their relationship started or why it came to be, so there’s this lie right at the heart.”Not that Moffat is excusing the officers involved in the real-life cases. “These people are grown-ups and they were asked to make grown-up choices. They knew what they were doing to these women and how harmful it was.”Undercover begins on BBC1 next Sunday at 9pm.