Vladimir Putin will not meet Elton John when the singer visits Russia this month because there is no appropriate time in their schedules, the Kremlin has said, but suggested the two could still meet at a later date.Kremlin calling? Meet the Russian pranksters who say 'Elton owes us'  The Russian president telephoned the British entertainer in September to say he would be ready for a chat after John requested a meeting to discuss his concerns about gay rights in Russia. “We were in correspondence with [Elton John] a couple of weeks ago, because there had been an agreement that, if their schedules allow, this meeting would take place. “President Putin expressed readiness for this meeting. But this time, the meeting won’t take place, unfortunately,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in a conference call with journalists. “Their schedules do not match up. But this does not mean that such a meeting won’t take place next time.”Putin offered to meet John following a prank call that fooled the performer into thinking he had spoken to the Russian president.The confusion began after John labelled Putin’s attitude toward gay people “isolating and prejudiced” and “ridiculous” during a visit to Ukraine and said he would like to meet him. A pair of famous Russian prank callers known for fooling several world leaders then phoned John and, posing as Putin, convinced him the president wanted to meet. They even invited John to Moscow to participate in a gay pride parade, despite the fact that police and counter-protesters have broken up annual attempts to hold such an event.John declared in an effusive Instagram post that he was “looking forward to meeting with [Putin] face-to-face to discuss LGBT equality in Russia”. Although the Kremlin quickly disavowed the conversation, Putin later called John and said he was willing to meet the singer.Elton John: ‘Our kids aren’t stuck in a mansion. We go to Pizza Hut’ Soviet singer Yuri Loza, who became the scourge of the Russian internet in March for saying Led Zeppelin and the Rolling Stones were “very weak” musicians, last week called on Putin not to “demonstrate his tolerance” by meeting John.Russia has a dismal record on LGBT rights. Since Putin signed a law against gay propaganda in 2013, harassment and attacks on gay people have increased, according to activists. Vigilante groups have appeared, luring gay men to meetings and then humiliating and even beating them on camera.In July, a Russian YouTube channel recorded the verbal abuse from passersby as two men walked around downtown Moscow holding hands.John became one of the first western pop musicians to perform in the Soviet Union when he gave a string of concerts in Moscow and Leningrad in 1979. He will be performing at a luxury Moscow shopping and entertainment centre on 30 May as part of his world tour.