Killing for Love: Storyville 10pm, BBC4“A beautiful, charming liar” is how reporter Carlos Santos describes Elizabeth Haysom, currently serving time as an accessory to murder after her parents were knifed to death in 1985. Haysom described herself as Lady Macbeth during the trial. But did her boyfriend, Jens Soering, (who has long protested his innocence) really commit the murders? This disturbing film follows the case, and the questions arising from it. Ali CatterallKate Humble: Back to the Land 8pm, BBC2With subsidies likely to be shredded by Brexit, some UK farmers are diversifying, creating aspirational products that range from the ultra-organic to the suspiciously hipster. Beginning in Pembrokeshire, this three-parter profiles the rural entrepreneurs thinking outside the horse box, with Kate Humble and Geetie Singh-Watson pulling on wellies and mucking in on everything from herding deluxe wagyu beef cattle to harvesting seaweed. Graeme Virtue1066: A Year to Conquer England 9pm, BBC2Second instalment of Dan Snow’s three-part dramatised lecture recalling an early failure by England’s insular nativists to prevent foreigners from coming over here and taking our thrones. In this episode, King Harold is beset by two invasion forces: one essentially a tantrum by his brother, Tostig; the other an onslaught of Vikings. In Normandy, meanwhile, Duke William waits for the weather to abate, before setting sail. Andrew MuellerInside No 910pm, BBC2Another object lesson in economical narrative from Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith – this time with guest turns from Javone Prince and Tamzin Outhwaite. Tonight, we’re at the karaoke leaving do of an office manager. It’s a study in communication breakdown; how people use booze, loud music and enforced jollity to fill the gaps between them. As usual, a prickly, fraught affair but, this time, with just a touch of redemption to sweeten the pill. Phil HarrisonCatastrophe 10pm, Channel 4Rob is still dealing with simmering fury over Sharon’s drunken tussling with a student’s penis, and his lack of gainful employment is now starting to undermine him, too. His feelings of inadequacy are ramped up when the tragic death of another staff member at Sharon’s school has the unexpected benefit of getting her promoted. Meanwhile, young Frankie has developed a new predilection for biting other pupils. It’s lovely to have Catastrophe back. Ben ArnoldAbandoned Engineering 8pm, YesterdayWhat happens when engineering endeavours go unexpectedly Betamax? Fantastical follies and unfulfilled utopias alike make up this new series, opening with the Ukrainian city of Pripyat, a Soviet-era idyll until the Chernobyl disaster turned it into an atomic Pompeii. There’s also an exploration of Prora, a holiday camp subsidised by the Third Reich, and the underground Croatian airbase built to withstand nuclear attack. Mark Gibbings-JonesHap and Leonard 9pm, AMCMichael Kenneth Williams and James Purefoy star in this adaptation of the novels of Joe R Lansdale. Set in the late 1980s in east Texas, it sees Williams and Purefoy star as a gay Vietnam veteran and his friend, a labourer who has served time for draft dodging. Themes of faded 60s idealism recur but, in this opener, femme fatale Christina Hendricks drops by to try to interest the boys in a scheme to retrieve a huge sum of money lost in a heist 20 years earlier. David StubbsFilm choiceNight Moves (Kelly Reichardt, 2013) 1.35am, Film4A trio of young eco-warriors – Jesse Eisenberg’s farm dweller, Dakota Fanning’s rich-kid dropout and Peter Sarsgaard’s ex-marine – plot the environmentally friendly destruction of a dam. It’s the stuff of action thrillers, but Reichardt’s moody, disturbing drama is as much about the awkward love triangle and the horrific consequences of the act as the suspenseful execution of it. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Paris-Nice Stage three of the road race, from Chablis to Cahalon-sur-Saone. 2.30pm, Eurosport 1Champions League football: Arsenal v Bayern Munich Arsenal attempt to overturn a 5-1 deficit at the Emirates after their first-leg horror show. 7pm, BT Sport 2Test cricket: India v Australia The fifth day’s play in the second Test from Bengaluru. 3.50am, Sky Sports 2