Television and theatre playwrights who spend a lot of time alone at their desks or waiting for producers to respond to scripts are prone to various distracting fantasies: a televised Bafta acceptance speech, a play at the National , a surprise invitation from a cultural giant to work on a project that will guarantee global fame and maybe some financial security.For Jack Thorne, all of these literary daydreams have become reality. This year, The Solid Life of Sugar Water, his play about a couple whose child is stillborn, opened at the National Theatre in London, shortly before he won two Baftas for best single drama and best mini-series. And, this week, previews began for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, his two-part play based on a short story by JK Rowling about the later life of the schoolboy wizard. Because of the publicity and income that it is likely to generate, a call from Rowling is the writer’s equivalent of a duet with Adele or a TV co-production with Simon Cowell.The stage play will bring a new level of attention to the 37-year-old Thorne.Harry Potter and the cursed previews: the opening of plays has become absurd  But, in terms of respect and success, the writer is far from being an overnight beneficiary of the Potter wand. This year’s pair of Baftas for This is England ’90 and Don’t Take My Babywas his second double at the awards, having won in 2012 for This is England ’88 and his BBC3 supernatural series, The Fades. Remarkably, Thorne could have taken home a trio of trophies this year, becoming, with Sky’s The Last Panthers in the best drama series section, the first writer to be nominated simultaneously in all three fiction categories. Even so, some might have expected Rowling to entrust the theatricalisation of her characters to a higher-profile stage writer. The selection was helped by the fact that the director is John Tiffany, for whom Thorne had turned the Swedish vampire story Let the Right One In into a theatrical hit. But the chosen playwright also had to be acceptable to Rowling, who has a power and influence over her work of the sort more associated with corporations than authors. What made Thorne a smart choice for the project, even though he has not previously been a writer for children, is that he seems to be an unusually natural collaborator, who had experience, before the Potter project, of helping the creator of a franchise to move it into another medium. Shane Meadows, who had written the hit autobiographical film This is England, hired Thorne to co-write three TV sequel mini-series, screened from 2010-15, in which the This Is England story was followed by the date stamps ’86, ’88, and ’90, following the Midlands schoolboys of the movie through recent British history.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Bafta award-winning This is England ’90. Meadows tells the story of scribbling across one of Thorne’s scripts, during a rehearsal, the words: ‘This is shit!’ Many writers, receiving such feedback from a director, would hire either a lawyer or a hitman, but Thorne agreed and went away to try again. While it seems unlikely that the creator of Harry Potter has been as direct as Meadows in script notes, Thorne has acknowledged the need to be alive to the sensitivity of putting words in the mouths of characters Rowling created. But, by all reports, creative cooperation has flowed. Rowling may also have been attracted by the dramatist’s habitual modesty and preference for a low profile. The show is subject to a level of secrecy previously applied only to nuclear launch-codes. Audiences attending previews at the Palace theatre in London have been asked not to reveal any plot details on social media. It is reported that a tourist who tweeted a narrative summary in Portuguese was contacted by the production team and asked to delete the post. While Thorne maintains a modest presence on Twitter, he can be relied on to say as little about the plays as Rowling wants. Shy and self-effacing, prone to the awkwardness of many very tall people, he rarely and reluctantly gives interviews, in which he usually includes a warning about being better at dialogue on the page than in person: “I don’t have that skill.” Though the writer is reluctant to talk about himself, there are glimpses of him in his scripts. Thorne was introduced to drama during his Bristol childhood by a father who wrote and staged an annual local pantomime, before the family moved to Berkshire, the setting for his Channel 4 series Glue, a distinctive mystery set among the horsey set. Reading politics at Cambridge, he joined the drama society, but missed his final year because of cholinergic urticaria, an immediate hypersensitivity to heat. His experience of disability, which continued for several years, inspired his first stage play, When You Cure Me (2005), and also a commitment to drama about, and performed by, those with disabilities. He has said this diversity mission is “probably the most important thing I can do. It’s something I feel very passionate about.” In Don’t Take My Baby, he wrote a star role for the wheelchair-using actor Ruth Madeley, who received a best actress nomination for her performance. The Solid Life of Sugar Water was written, in another of the creative collaborations that Thorne favours, for the Graeae theatre company, which works with disabled and deaf actors. Debilitating though it was, Thorne’s own illness gave him a gift for solitude that is useful to a writer. Until he married Rachel Mason, a comedian’s agent whom he met on a train journey, Thorne wrote all day and much of the night all week and weekend. He now takes off one half-day in every seven and continues to maintain an extraordinary production line, writing for film (including the Nick Hornby adaptation A Long Way Down) and radio, as well as the numerous stage and TV projects.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Genevieve Barr (Alice) and Arthur Hughes (Phil) in The Solid Life Of Sugar Water. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian The scripts are driven by tape-recorder-accurate dialogue, especially of young people: his television break was the teen drama Skins. This may have been another selling point for Rowling, although it is no plot spoiler to suggest that the Potter plays will probably not contain as much sex and drug-taking as Skins and Glue.  If the writer has a weakness in his CV, apart from winning only two of the three Baftas he was nominated for this year, it is the lack of an original stage play to match the impact of the award-winning screen work. Hope, last year’s Royal Court play about local politics, based on Thorne’s experience as a Labour party member in Luton, lacked the energy and comedy of his TV scripts. In 2014, when a Guardian interview mentioned the multiple projects he was then working on, the writer gently asked if this reference to his busyness could be removed from the online version, as he feared it might make other people reluctant to employ him. The detail stood, on the the grounds that this extraordinary industry is an important part of his story, and does not seem to have blocked the flow of commissions. After the Rowling, he completes a double of superstar English children’s writers by adapting Philip Pullman’s His Dark Materials trilogy for BBC1. National Treasure, a Channel 4 series starring Robbie Coltrane as a famous fictional comedian accused of sex crimes, is to be screened this year, and he has worked on the new Julia Roberts movie, Wonder. When the scripts for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Parts 1 and 2 are published on 31 July, Thorne will also achieve the first instance of a play text becoming a runaway No 1 bestseller. Stagings of the translations will then sell out in most countries purely on the basis of the title, meaning that Thorne will not have to do any publicity, and can get on with the next job. Which will suit him.Potted Profile Born 6 December 1978 in Bristol Career Unusual among writers in being equally prolific in theatre and TV, Thorne has had a key loyal collaborator in each medium. With stage director John Tiffany, he worked on Let the Right One In, Hope and now the Harry Potter plays. With Shane Meadows, his three This is England mini-series for Channel 4 established Thorne as the go-to-guy for TV drama. Highpoint Winning double Bafta TV awards in 2012 and 2016. Lowpoint Contributing to Greenland, a 2011 multi-authored piece on climate change, which received some of the most dismissive reviews in National Theatre history. He says: “My mum once said she’d recognised an actor in one of my later shows from having seen his bum in Skins.” They say: “I think that his modesty comes from his fascination with people. He is deeply compassionate and fascinated by human behaviour.” Theatre director Josie Rourke 