Max Porter, a novelist “bursting with originality” who was inspired by memories of childhood loss and the work of Ted Hughes, has been named young writer of the year.Grief Is the Thing with Feathers by Max Porter review – words take flight Porter won the £5,000 Sunday Times/Peters Fraser and Dunlop accolade on Thursday night for first book Grief Is the Thing With Feathers, which was published to rave reviews in 2015. In 2015, he was shortlisted for the Guardian first book award and this year won the Dylan Thomas award.He received award at an event at the London Library. The prize is given for the best piece of fiction, nonfiction or poetry by a British or Irish writer aged 35 or under. Porter, who has just turned 35, joins an illustrious list of past winners including Zadie Smith, Naomi Alderman, Robert Macfarlane and Simon Armitage.Prize judge James Naughtie praised Porter’s “diamond-sharp prose with an affecting poetic pulse, and surging emotions that are perfectly tempered and managed”. He added: “This is a writer bursting with originality.”Part novella, part polyphonic fable, part essay on bereavement, the book tells the story of a widower (Dad), his two young sons and Crow, “friend, excuse, deus ex machina, joke, symptom, figment, spectre, crutch”. The latter is fantasy ally to the bereaved Ted Hughes scholar Dad and his young family, left grief-stricken following the sudden and unexplained death of the boys’ mother.As well as drawing on the death of his own father when he was six, Porter, who is also editorial director of Granta and Portobello Books, was inspired by Hughes’s poem Crow, written in the wake of the death of Sylvia Plath. In an interview with the Guardian last year, he described himself as “a Crow nerd”, having fallen hard for the poet in his early 20s.Grief Is the Thing With Feathers was one of two novels shortlisted for the award. Benjamin Wood’s immersive second novel The Ecliptic was the other, alongside Jessie Greengrass’s short-story collection An Account of the Decline of the Great Auk, According to One Who Saw It and Andrew McMillan’s Physical, a debut poetry collection about male desire that won the 2015 Guardian first book award. All three runners-up received £500. The judging panel, which included Historian Stella Tillyard and Sunday Times literary editor Andrew Holgate alongside Naughtie, said Porter’s book stood out for its inventiveness. Tillyard said: “His book is a novella, a prose poem, a comic elegy and a meditation on the progress of grief all at once. Porter’s joyful linguistic inventiveness, and the confidence that runs through the book, augur well for his future career.”Max Porter: ‘The experience of the boys in the novel is based on my dad dying when I was six’ At the ceremony, it was also announced that, from 2017, the award will be run in association with the University of Warwick. The latter will provide a 10-week residency for the winner, run a one-day festival and a year-round programme of on-campus and digital support for shortlisted authors and award alumni.A shadow judging panel of leading book bloggers also deliberated for the first time this year. Last week, Eric Karl Anderson of Lonesome Reader, Kim Forrester of Reading Matters, Naomi Frisby of the Writes of Woman, Charlie Place of the Worm Hole and Simon Savidge of Savidge Reads chose Jessie Greengrass as the first recipient of the Bloggers’ Choice award.