Leafhoppers, family Cicadellidae, are hemimetabolous insects whose young look like miniature versions of the adults, minus fully developed wings. They use their piercing-sucking mouthparts to extract sap from xylem tubes of host plants as diverse as grasses, shrubs and trees. As the common name suggests, their hind legs enable them to jump many times their body length. A few species have earned a well-deserved reputation as pests. Some transmit bacterial and viral diseases. The glasshouse leafhopper (Hauptidia maroccana), for example, may cause unsightly damage to the foliage of ornamental plants. With more than 20,000 species, leafhoppers are among the most diverse insect groups lacking complete metamorphosis.I have always had a soft spot for leafhoppers. In part because they are cute and impressively athletic, but more so because they conjure up pleasant memories of time spent as a student with an emeritus professor at Ohio State University, Dwight DeLong. DeLong had begun studying leafhoppers when he was a student and had lost none of his infectious enthusiasm for them. During his distinguished career, DeLong named about 5,000 species. He was also co-author with Donald Borror of the first editions of a well-known college entomology textbook known affectionately to generations of students as "Bored and Too Long".Among the largest and most brilliantly coloured species are members of the subfamily Cicadellinae, commonly referred to as "sharpshooters". The production of three major publications on sharpshooters by David Young from the late 1960s until the mid-80s opened up the subfamily for further exploration by making its genera and species more easily identified. A website maintained by the National Museum Wales, provides an excellent overview of the subfamily, including an interactive map by major geographic regions.A research team led by Gabriel Mejdalani of the Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, has discovered a particularly beautiful new species, Cavichiana bromelicola. These sharpshooters are about 6mm in length with a dark-brown to black background colour interrupted by a large yellow spot on the back and bright-red eyes. Most remarkable, however, are their host plants. This species, discovered in a restinga in south-east Brazil, is the first documented case of a leafhopper associated with bromeliads in their native habitat.Restingas are a unique kind of tropical or subtropical moist, coastal, broadleaf forest endemic to parts of Brazil. They form on nutrient-impoverished, sandy, acidic soils and are populated by shrubs and small- to medium-sized trees. According to the WWF, there are two distinct restinga eco-regions. One, located on the northern coast of Brazil, shows clear affinities with the forests of the Amazon. The other, from which the new species hails, is on the eastern coast and clearly related to the Atlantic forest.The authors offer a comprehensive review of "bugs", Hemiptera, associated with bromeliads for shelter or food. The list is diverse with water striders, assassin bugs and several greenhouse pests, but few records of phytophagous species such as leafhoppers. They note that bromeliads, while high in water content, are nutrient-poor compared with many other plants growing in the same habitats and also contain chemical deterrents to predators. Of the published records, many are from pineapple plantations, others clearly incidental without evidence of actual feeding. Further, many species involved are known to have other, and probably preferred, host plants. The tremendous diversity of leafhoppers and dearth of bromeliad hosts suggest interesting ecological and physiological stories yet to be told.