Corinne Bailey Rae (Album Of The Year – with Herbie Hancock – 2008; Best R&B Performance, 2012)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Corinne Bailey Rae: ‘… it’s pretty intimidating, but also really exciting” Photograph: NBCUPhotobank / Rex FeaturesWhen I was first nominated [in 2007] I was invited to the nominations ceremony. It was weird to hear my name read out by Justin Timberlake. I’d only just started to play in America, so to get the nomination was a thrill. That year I played at the actual ceremony with John Legend and John Mayer. The audience includes Stevie Wonder and Carole King and Aretha Franklin, so it’s pretty intimidating, but also really exciting. Being British, I do feel slightly outside that world, but getting nominated for a Grammy is a real sign of approval.Corinne Bailey Rae: Soundtrack of my Life The Grammys is not just about the ceremony and the awards. They’ve got an organisation called MusiCares which raises a lot a money throughout the year for musicians who don’t have pensions or healthcare. So as much as the Grammys is about rewarding success, it’s also a living thing that recognises the contribution of music to society. The awards are so broad – you’ve literally the got the best Christian album, or the best polka album, or the best Latin jazz album – and I feel like there’s an equal respect for all the genres. It would be great if the Brit Awards were more like the Grammys in that way. It’s getting harder to make a living as a musician. If the Brits were broader I think it would encourage people from different backgrounds to have a go.To actually win the award for Best R&B Performance was a massive surprise and a really joyous moment for me. I’m just really grateful. I’ve put the award on a ledge in my studio. Sometimes when I’m doing my vocal exercises I look up and see it and it’s a real encouragement to me. Now that I’ve won, I get to vote for future awards. I make sure I listen to everything carefully and it’s great when someone you’ve voted for picks up a nomination.Wayne Coyne, The Flaming Lips (Best Rock Instrumental Performance, 2003 and 2007)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wayne Coyne: ‘I can’t believe this, we fucking won!’ I don’t think Slash knew what was happening. Photograph: Jonny Weeks for the GuardianWhen we were first up for the Grammys, part of me was like “Oh jeez, who gives a fuck about that?!” But by then we’d already been a band for a long time and we were very open to any music industry absurdities where we could have a front-row seat. We didn’t ever think we would win, we just thought it would be funny to see Tony Bennett and Axl Rose walk by.Wayne Coyne: 'I'm not having a mid-life crisis, I'm having fun!' We were nominated [in 2003] with Slash’s Snakepit and we just assumed that he would win. He sat right in front of us with quite a big, ready-to-party entourage. This might just be me embellishing the story but you could almost see Slash thinking, “Here we go, we’ll pick this up and get the party started.” Our song that won has such an insanely long title – it’s called Approaching Pavonis Mons By Balloon (Utopia Planitia) – that by the time they finished reading it, I was already up there grabbing the award out of the guy’s hand going, “I can’t believe this, we fucking won!” I don’t think Slash knew what was happening.It’s absurd to be able to say that we won a Grammy with an instrumental song with one of the longest titles ever put on one of these little statues. We never took it seriously but for a lot of people it seemed to make us legit. By the time we got the second Grammy [in 2007], part of me was like “Yeah, of course – we’re Grammy winners!” It was still absurd but not quite as absurd as stealing it from Slash’s sweaty hands.In some ways, the music industry creates these awards to give to itself. You have to be part of the Grammys to win one, so it’s a self-fulfilling thing. But I don’t like to say that it’s meaningless. After we won, we found out just how much it meant to people – people who’d never paid any attention to us were suddenly listening to our music. There are plenty of people who think that if you’ve won a Grammy, you must be great. And that’s just how it is.Jennifer Gasoi (Best Children’s Album 2014)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jennifer Gasoi.My success proves that it is possible for independent artists to win a Grammy, although it is very difficult. Applying for the Grammys is a pretty complicated process. It took me forever just to find the hotline number to call to even start the process, so I think it takes a certain kind of person to persevere and figure out the system. It would be off-putting for the majority of musicians.I’ve been nominated for a Juno before but those awards are a whole different thing: much smaller, more modest. The Grammys is the biggest deal, in terms of music, in the world. While I was walking the red carpet, Willie Nelson was behind me, Billy Crystal was in front of me. It was a lot of pressure for me because I knew I was going to have more exposure, especially in Canada. So I had to be really focused and very aware of my image and how I was going to come across.I pulled out all the stops: I had a designer make a custom dress, I hired the best makeup and hair people, I really went all out for it. The actual win was pretty spectacular. Cyndi Lauper gave me my award, so that was pretty cool. I had prepared a speech but when I got up there something else came out! I was the first winner on the day to pick up my award in person, so when I walked through into the media room I got a standing ovation. Usually the children’s category isn’t a very big deal, but I had a lot of press in Canada because I was one of the only Canadians to win – besides Michael Bublé, and he was in Europe at the time. As a result of winning, I did have some great label offers, although I chose to stay independent. In general, my calls are received very well! And when it comes to my next project, I’m going to have many more connections to tap into. But my life hasn’t changed dramatically, because I made a decision to continue going slow and steady.Jason Vieaux (Best Classical Instrumental Solo, 2015)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I was doing a concert in Florida when the nominations came through. We rehearsed in the morning and I was taking a short nap when my phone started buzzing a lot. At first I thought, ‘Gosh, I hope no one’s died …’ Then I realised I’d been nominated, which was really exciting. Actually the nomination was probably more amazing than the actual win because there’s around 400 entrants in the category, so I wasn’t expecting to be in the top five.Most of the awards are actually given out in an afternoon ceremony at a different venue. The Grammys you see on television, they’re only giving out 10 awards and it’s all pop stuff. Even most of the rock and hip-hop categories are all done in the afternoon. Which makes sense, because it means the TV viewer gets to see more performances. People aren’t going to tune in to see awards given out to classical musicians they’ve never heard of! But nominees all get tickets to the main event. There was a bottleneck on the red carpet line and we found ourselves pressed up against Pharrell and Questlove. I also met Herbie Hancock, Barry Gibb … and I got my picture taken with Mastodon!At the ceremony they give you a mock trophy, and that’s what everybody’s holding up on camera. The real thing arrives later in the mail, because they’re all handmade and personally inscribed. It’s so cliched to drink out of your Grammy, but I did send out a silly tweet. When I was a kid they used to have this bubblegum called Chu-Bops which were in the shape of miniature LPs. So I bought some on eBay and took a picture pretending I was using my Grammy trophy as a turntable.Classical music is very competitive and I’m definitely getting more interest as a result of the Grammy. It’s been a little easier to fill up the schedule. I’m already taking bookings for 2017 – and some of the fees have gone up too …Foxes (Best Dance Recording with Zedd, 2014)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Louisa Rose Allen aka Foxes: ‘Six months later, a parcel arrived it my flat. I genuinely thought it was some parts I’d ordered from Ikea.’ Photograph: Andy Sheppard/Redferns via Getty ImagesEven now, it’s not something I’ve really taken in. Just to be there, I felt out of place. And winning it was completely surreal. I don’t think anyone expects to win a Grammy.There was a lot less drinking than at something like the Brits. Luckily I was hanging out with Disclosure and Sam Smith, who were up for Best Dance Album. We were a little bit like Brits abroad, desperately searching for a bar when no one else was drinking. When our name got called out, everything went silent. I felt very shocked and frozen – I didn’t know what to do because I really didn’t feel like we were going to win it. I didn’t have anything prepared. The last time I remember doing a speech was in school assembly, and here I was standing in front of Paul McCartney and Beyoncé. I let Zedd talk because it was a very important moment for him. Then I took the chewing gum out of my mouth and screamed ‘Mum!’We went to the Sony party but no one really has that much fun at industry parties, they’re too busy networking. So I ended up at Skrillex’s party. I remember drunkenly singing along to Bump N Grind by R Kelly with the rest of the UK contingent, which is a moment I’d like to erase.Six months later, a parcel arrived at my flat. I genuinely thought it was some parts I’d ordered from Ikea, so I opened it expecting to spend the next couple of hours putting up a shelf. Then I saw the gold shining out of the box and I was a bit overcome. I remember being scared to take it out, so I made my mum come over. She’s still got the award at her house, so that no one drinks out of it. It was very, very odd to win something so young and right at the beginning of my career. I didn’t quite know how process it. But it did put a lot of fire in me. I guess it made me want to try and justify it, to achieve something similar with my own work.Ladybug Mecca, Digable Planets (Best Rap Performance By A Duo Or Group, 1994)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest To me, it’s not really that important. Honestly, we’ve never made art for accolades and it never entered into the creative process – it still doesn’t. But because of the circumstance and the opportunity, we used it as a platform to discuss something that was important to us, which was homelessness [the group’s acceptance speech asked “for everybody to think about the people right outside this door that’s homeless as you’re sitting in these $900 seats and $300 seats – they’re out there not eating at all”]. Do I think more artists should use that platform to bring issues to wider attention? I think everyone should do whatever they feel is representative of their true selves.It’s great to be recognised in some way by your peers but it hasn’t changed my life tremendously. The event itself was strange. I was uncomfortable for a number of reasons – my mother was very sick and on her deathbed at that time, so my head was in Maryland with her. And even without that, it’s not really my kind of scene. You can probably tell by the look on my face. I don’t think I ever smiled.I’d say the Grammy win was irrelevant in our career. We don’t have those type of things in mind when we make music – we create art to express how we feel and our experiences and our observations of the world. It’s really not at all about utilising something like that to further anything.