In an interview in last Sunday’s Observer, comedian Rob Newman passed judgement on the scientific community. “Scientists think we’re all stupid,” he claimed. Worse still, we appear to him to be consumed by the view that “the nastier you can be about people then the more rigorous and critical your thinking must be.”In the court of Judge Newman, Stephen Hawking is guilty of calling human beings “scum”; Brian Cox stands accused of equating brains to computers; and Francis Crick (who’s not alive to answer back) is to be censured for reducing the joys and sorrows of human existence to the product of molecular and cellular machinations. These are serious charges, but do they really stand up?Maybe it was just a bit of puckish blather to promote his new book, but if Newman’s going to take digs, he needs to dig in. He’s not stupid and I’m guessing he’s read enough to know that science isn’t simply a slow accretion of facts; that it’s also about having arguments about those facts, and about asking how reliable they are and what they mean.So let’s have that argument. Or, better yet, let’s try to find some common ground. The crux seems to be Newman’s assertion that scientists are “pessimistic about people” and have made “vast and belittling claims” about human life. Reading between the lines, I think I know what he means. And I sympathise.Robert Newman: ‘Scientists think we’re all stupid. It makes me angry…’ It’s true that the course of natural philosophy down through the ages has been unsettling to humanity’s conception of itself. The universe discovered by science appears vast, impersonal and purposeless. And human beings, we now know, evolved on this planet mostly by accident, and live and breathe and have their being thanks to the complex operations of cells and molecules that, despite all the progress, we are still a long way from figuring out completely.The cosmological expansion of the universe and the relentless reductionism of the life sciences have certainly changed how we see our place in the world. And yes, perhaps scientists do sometimes talk too delightedly about the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle at the expense of more holistic considerations. But it would be wrong to see that as a blithe dismissal of the beauty and significance of human existence. Often, it’s quite the reverse. As physicist Richard Feynman has argued, science has the power to intensify our appreciation of the wonder of the world and, by extension, of human life. Even so, I’ve fallen into the trap myself. As a (sort of) virologist, my work over the years has revealed a few details of the sheer cleverness through which some viruses hijack the molecular resources in the cells of our bodies for their nefarious ends. On occasion, I have to stop myself speaking too admiringly – though the admiration is undoubtedly there, on an intellectual level – because I know viruses make people’s lives miserable, and sometimes take them away. I’ll confess to a certain amount of reductionism but that’s an investigative necessity, not a crime. My wonder at the machinations of Nature is one of the things that keeps me going. As a scientist and a human being, I’m looking for meaning and purpose too. And so it goes with most areas of scientific inquiry, and with most scientists who, after all, are just people and a pretty mixed bunch, though their individualism can be easy to overlook when talking about Science with a capital ‘S’. Stephen Hawking might have chosen his words better. By “scum” I think he was referring to human civilisation forming a thin layer on the surface of the Earth – but is he guilty of anything more than thoughtless phrasing? Maybe he was feeling a bit puckish at the time? It happens. I suspect if Newman had talked to him he’d have found that no diminution of humanity was intended, but Hawking is so well-known he was probably hard to get hold of.However, there are plenty more of us knocking around and, despite the growth in public engagement by scientists in recent years, we could still do more to make ourselves available for conversation. Newman is obviously curious about science and I’m with him 100% on the belief that science “should be at the heart of society”. Hopefully he wants to talk. There is plenty to talk about – not just the gaps between public and scientific perceptions of the proper scope and intent of scientific inquiry, but the perverse incentives driving scientific careers, the reproducibility crisis, and the lack of equality and diversity. Talking about science is my main reason for writing this blog. 'We know so little about so much': Robert Newman talks skulls, science and psychology It’s also why I’ll be on the March for Science in London next Saturday. Truth be told, I was dithering, but Newman has convinced me to go. While I could see the point of Americans marching in the USA, where scientific ideas and funding are under attack from the Trump administration, the situation isn’t quite so serious in the UK. I’ll be marching not so much to fly the flag for science (though I am a fan, obviously), or to campaign for more funding (we’ll save that for another day), and certainly not to take sides, but rather to put myself out there, in public. If Rob Newman comes along, even if only to heckle, I hope he’ll say hello.@Stephen_Curry is a professor of structural biology at Imperial College. He is a member of the boards of Science is Vital and the Campaign for Science and Engineering.