After painting Kazakhstan as an atavistic hole of Jew-haters, inbreeders and clock-radio coveters in Borat, Sacha Baron Cohen is poised in his new film to besmirch the reputation of Lincolnshire’s most self-flagellatingly named estuarial port town, Grimsby. Chav Central seems to be the keynote. No one in current cinema trashes a place quite like Baron Cohen – but there have been plenty of outstanding demolition jobs, like the 10 below. Merely kitchen-sink or “authentic” treatments didn’t cut it for the list – contenders had to demonstrate actual malicious, distorting and/or resident-slandering intent.The Australian outback (Wake in Fright)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Aussie wastes are always foreboding on film. But they become a perpetually hungover, exit-less purgatory in this 1971 Ozploitation classic in which a schoolteacher en route to Sydney gets waylaid in the mining town of Bundanyabba (AKA “the Yabba”). The sickening amount of West End lager consumed amid the endless gambling sessions and kangaroo pogroms ranks as the most counterproductive example of product placement ever.Georgia, USA (Deliverance)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Up the creek … Burt Reynolds in Deliverance. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex ShutterstockCome to Georgia! Tackle the thorny hillbilly accent! Pit yourself against ominous banjo-playing idiot savants! Step into the wilderness and find yourself the sexual plaything of devious, dentally challenged mountain men! Bizarrely, John Boorman’s anti-tourist board ad actually increased interest in the southern state, sparking a whitewater rafting boom on the Chattooga river for those coming to hear the surrounding hills echoing with the sounds of evil redneck chuckling.Chinatown, everywhere (Chinatown)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest No one is denying that Chinatowns worldwide have the odd problem with organised crime and food-standards violations. They didn’t ask, though, to be made into some kind of international byword for total spiritual perdition. Orientalists everywhere thrilled to the climax of 1947’s The Lady from Shanghai when Orson Welles’ protagonist is spun around in front of Asian eyes (inscrutable, of course). But, setting PI Jake Gittes on a similar trajectory, Roman Polanski’s 70s Los Angeles masterpiece takes the misfortune cookie. Message: “Your grandad’s also your dad.”The Scottish Highlands (Breaking the Waves)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Road to perdition … Katrin Cartlidge, left, and Emily Watson in Breaking the Waves. Photograph: Ronald Grant ArchiveLike Colorado in Dogville, Lars von Trier gives the impression of never having set foot in the real north of Scotland, lest it complicate a picture-postcard conceptual backdrop for his favourite hobby: subjecting his lead character to a set of directorial ordeals. The stony-faced Calvinist elders and feral schoolchildren who prowled the land and dead-eyed rapey sailors lurking offshore were supposedly from the 1970s. Were it not for Emily Watson’s PVC skirt, the red phonebox, and Bowie and Elton on the soundtrack, you’d have mistaken it for the 1770s.Swansea (Twin Town)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Renton and crew operated in Edinburgh’s margins, but the leering, droog-eyed brothers at the heart of the “Welsh Trainspotting” are practically mascots of a “pretty shitty city”. Kevin Allen’s Swansea is a beacon of cheerful hypocrisy; a place where rugby balls come stuffed full of coke, and the timeless pillars of Welsh life conceal a hotbed of joyriding, piss-drizzled karaoke and routine caninocide.Mogadishu, Somalia (Black Hawk Down)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Afternoon firefight … Tom Guiry in Black Hawk Down. Photograph: Everett Collection/Rex FeaturesThe Somalian capital city was admittedly no Viennese ballroom in the early 90s, when the UN peacekeeping mission went belly-up. But so one-sided was Ridley Scott’s account of one bad-tempered afternoon there, the entire urban infrastructure seems to exist solely to spew out a 28 Days Later-like stream of AK-toting fanatics who’ve been waiting all their lives to tear off a piece of a helicopter rotor. Another little-known Mogadishu fact unearthed by Scott: unusually for a city in the midst of the famously homogenous Horn of Africa gene pool, it is entirely populated by people from other parts of Africa.Paris (Irréversible)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Hub of the Enlightenment, city of romance, home of button-cute Amélie Poulain – all rendered null and void as Gaspar Noé reduces the Paris street map to one sulphurous red underpass and forces us to watch nine minutes of rape and battery. Everyone would have settled for some unconvincing, Daft Punk-soundtracked mime instead. After that, it’s an impossibly long road back to heaven in his metaphysical journey through one night out in the capital.Romania (The Romanian new wave)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bleak outlook … Anamaria Marinca, left, and Laura Vasiliu in 4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days. Photograph: Saga Film/Sportsphoto/AllstarThis artistic vanguard swept the cobwebs of Transylvanian gothic cool away and, in a series of bleak but devastating noughties films, made the eastern European country known for something else: being a traumatised, towerblock-palisaded post-commie fiefdom in which if you weren’t literally dying (The Death of Mr Lazarescu), you could while away your allotted span on earth hunting down a backstreet abortion (4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days), denying your sexuality in a convent (Beyond the Hills), or suffering slow bureaucratic strangulation (Police, Adjective).Slovakia (Hostel)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest American xenophobia is a well-trodden story route, but Eli Roth really ran with it in the 2005 film that inaugurated the movie genre known as torture porn. Of course the whole of the European hospitality industry is some kind of sinister conspiratorial network designed to entrap gullible fratboy backpackers. Where else but darkest newly capitalistic eastern Europe, trafficking in every base human impulse, would host a sinister white-collar murder ring? Naturally one of the participants bears a striking resemblance to a famously unhinged Japanese director: pass me the cheesewire, eh, Miike?Bruges (In Bruges)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A bridge too far … Colin Farrell and Clemence Poesy in In Bruges. Photograph: Focus/Everett/Rex Features“If I grew up on a farm, and was retarded, Bruges might impress me, but I didn’t, so it doesn’t.” Thanks to writer/director Martin McDonagh’s un-PC exuberance, Colin Farrell tramples all over chocolate-box Belgium; a heritage honeypot so boring that it appeals only to the unhinged inner child in Ralph Fiennes’ warbly-voiced psychopath mobster. “How can fucking swans not fucking be someone’s fucking thing?” How indeed. • Grimsby is released on 24 February.