MondayThe Tony award-winning musical An American in Paris, based on the 1951 movie, is in previews at the Dominion theatre in the West End. Deborah Pearson’s History, History, History, inspired by her grandfather and performed alongside a screening of a Hungarian football comedy film, is at the Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts, Brighton. The Grapes of Wrath is revived at the Nuffield, Southampton and features a community chorus and live music from Matt Regan, whose Greater Belfast was a hit at the Edinburgh fringe. Joe Orton’s great farce What the Butler Saw is at the Curve, Leicester. Angus Jackson directs Julius Caesar at the Royal Shakespeare theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon.TuesdayJack Thorne’s Luton monologue, Bunny, is revived at the White Bear in Kennington, London. Love letters written in times of war take centre stage in One Last Thing (For Now), which opens at the Old Red Lion, London. Hattie Naylor’s As the Crow Flies, a story of one women’s friendship with a crow, sets out on tour with Pentabus from Bromfield village hall in Shropshire. Robert Softley’s Discourse or Intercourse/Talking & F*cking considers pornography and disability at the CCA, Glasgow as part of the Take Me Somewhere festival.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest WednesdayThe Sprint festival is underway at Camden People’s theatre and from tonight you can join Scottee in Bravado, a memoir of working-class masculinity. If I Had a Girl, inspired by the story of survivors of honour-based violence, is at Beacon Arts, Greenock. The excellent Sick festival begins in Manchester (there are some Brighton dates later in the month) with Contact Young Company’s show There Is a Light, about young people and cancer care.ThursdaySeiriol Davies had a hit with How to Win Against History last year in Edinburgh and follows it up at Oval House, south London, with Milky Peaks, described as Under Milk Wood meets Twin Peaks. North of the river, The Diary of a Hounslow Girl, Ambreen Razia’s story of a Muslim teenager facing cultural conflict, is at the Bernie Grant Centre, Tottenham. Terence Rattigan’s Love in Idleness, a rarely performed piece about youthful idealism, is revived at the Menier Chocolate Factory, Southwark. Glenn Waldron considers the pursuit of happiness in The Here and This and Now at the Drum, Plymouth.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A delight … Panti Bliss. Photograph: Awakening/Getty ImagesFriday and the weekendDrag queen Panti Bliss is a delight in High Heels in Low Places at Glasgow’s Tramway, also part of the Take Me Somewhere festival. Dominic Hill revives Hay Fever at the Lyceum, Edinburgh. The comedic DIY musical The Best of Both Worlds: A Busker’s Opera is at the Waterside, Sale. The learning disability company Mind the Gap bring the touching Contained to West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds. Ridiculusmus are at the Lowry, Manchester with Give Me Your Love. Over at the Royal Exchange, you can see the first preview of David Greig’s version of Aeschylus’s The Suppliant Women. Meanwhile, in the Royal Exchange studio, Tom Gill’s Growing Pains considers fathers and sons in songs and rhyme. Inua Ellams’ An Evening With an Immigrant is at Derby Playhouse studio. Gary Owen’s Jeramee, Hartleby and Oooglemore, directed by Tim Crouch, is intended for the over-3s but it’s a great pleasure for all and is back at the Unicorn, London, from Sunday.