Planet Earth II 8pm, BBC1The outrageously watchable, jaw-droppingly telegenic Attenborough series reaches its conclusion, examining how animals cope in modern cities. Opening with a parkour-type sequence involving male primates in India, we see starlings blacken the skies of Rome, catfish hunting pigeons in the south of France, night-vision images of leopards prowling Mumbai – and why Singapore might be the city of the future in terms of accommodating wildlife. David Stubbs The Next Great Magician 7pm, ITVThere’s professionally stilted banter from Rochelle Humes and Stephen Mulhern as we reach the end of the competition to crown the cream of the conjuring crop. The winners of the past five weeks’ heats return to showcase their most spectacular feats of wonder, sleight-of-hand and derring-do, all competing for the chance to front their own ITV special. The tricks themselves are spectacular; the production itself smacks a little of daring deeds done dirt cheap. Luke HollandChristmas at the Chateau 8pm, Channel 4In the final instalment of Escape To The Chateau, it’s Christmas, and Dick Strawbridge and Angel Adoree are awaiting guests hoping for an opulent and luxurious festive season at their pile in the Pays de la Loire. The only thing is that Dick is still working on the somewhat challenging task of installing a much-needed lift. It’s a testing time, but luckily Angel has found some vintage vinyl in the attic. Dick will be over the moon. Ben ArnoldChoir of the Year 2016 8pm, BBC4From Cardiff’s Millennium Centre, Josie D’Arby and Julian Ovenden present highlights of the biennial competition to crown the UK’s best amateur choir. A bumper crop of more than 180 entries has been reduced to six, including the White Rosettes – a women’s barbershop chorus from Leeds – and a male-voice choir from near Wrexham who must surely view this as a home tie. Meanwhile, Lloyd Coleman roams backstage to get the tuneful gossip. Graeme Virtue My Mother and Other Strangers 9pm, BBC1The final episode of the second world war drama, and we’re in big finish territory. Not only is Rose pining for Dreyfuss, but Michael gets potentially ruinous news and, as the brash and moneyed Americans throw a party at the base, resentment at their presence threatens to boil over. A mainstream drama that covers familiar territory, but Barry Devlin’s script wrings plenty of emotion from events and Hattie Morahan is terrific as Rose. Jonathan Wright Hubble’s Amazing Journey10.05pm, National GeographicThe Hubble space telescope is indisputably one of the most amazing devices ever built by humankind. Since it launched into low Earth orbit in 1990, it has vastly expanded our understanding of the universe, providing both answers and questions. This doc reflects on its accomplishments and meets those operating and maintaining it. Fascinating, despite some hammy narration and an emetic soundtrack. Andrew MuellerA Tribute to Randy Newman: Hollywood In Vienna 5.45pm, Sky ArtsA 2014 tribute to the American master from the Vienna Radio Symphony Orchestra, with proceedings conducted by Randy’s cousin David, expertly steering a medley of Pixar hits including You’ve Got A Friend In Me. “I don’t what’s flowing through the blood of the Newman family,” gushes the US ambassador in Austria, to which Randy cheerfully replies, “Whiskey.” Brilliant. Ali Catterall Film choices      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Complex and bittersweet … Shailene Woodley and George Clooney in The Descendants. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarThe Lone Ranger (Gore Verbinski, 2013) 8pm, BBC2This reworking of the 50s TV horse opera struck something of a dud note on release. And that despite Johnny Depp (reuniting with Pirates Of The Caribbean director Verbinski) as Tonto, the deadpan Comanche who leads Armie Hammer’s rather dim Lone Ranger over the prairie, battling rapacious railway tycoons and silver miners. A mixed, sometimes mystifying bag, riddled with exhilarating action. Paul Howlett Ted (Seth MacFarlane, 2012) 9pm, E4Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane’s big-screen debut is a slightly disturbing comedy about grown men acting like kids. Mark Wahlberg performs gamely as John, whose childhood wish to have his teddy bear come to life is magically granted. Years later, he is the put-upon buddy of foul-mouthed, cynical, sneery Ted, whose misanthropic presence threatens his relationship with high-flyer Lori (Mila Kunis). Funny, furry and offensive. PHThe Iceman (Ariel Vromen, 2012) 12.50am, Channel 4Michael Shannon plays real-life mobster Richie Kuklinski. He’s a blank-faced, psychotic killer who unquestioningly wipes out more than 100 people on his bosses’ orders, and there’s no glimpse of humanity behind the executioner’s mask. Unusually, Friends’ David Schwimmer is in this stone-faced company. PHThe Descendants (Alexander Payne, 2011) Sunday, 11.10pm, Film4Payne’s complex, bittersweet adaptation of Kaui Hart Hemmings’s novel has the usually serene George Clooney drowning in a tropical storm of problems. Matt King is the patriarch of a wealthy, land-owning family in Hawaii. When his wife suffers an accident, he has to deal with precocious daughters, greedy relations, his responsibility to the islands and, not least, the revelation that she was cheating. An exceptional, intelligent comedy from the writer-director of Sideways. PHToday’s best live sportPremier League Football: Manchester United v Tottenham Hotspur 2pm, Sky Sports 1 Spurs visit the recently somewhat unpredictable Man United.European Champions Cup Rugby: Exeter Chiefs v Bordeaux Bègles 5.15pm, BT Sport 2 All the action from Sandy Park.Test Cricket: India v England 3.45am, Sky Sports 2 Day five of the fourth Test from Mumbai. Can England keep their hopes in the series alive?