The Wellcome Trust is a hugely important organisation, and it is vital that its fundraising continues unabated. It is the second largest biomedical research charity in the world, and has recently been using its muscle to accelerate getting medicines on the ground to defeat the Ebola virus.Inevitably, in navigating the cross-currents of our society, the trust finds itself in a variety of paradoxical situations. It funds excellent science for the public good yet raises funds chiefly by astute investment decisions. It drove the open release of human genetic data, and continues to champion open-access publication of scientific results, yet accepts that medical outcomes must be channelled through the capricious operations of global trading. Unsurprisingly, the trust’s attitude to the fossil fuel industry is ambivalent.The Guardian campaign to encourage investors to divest from fossil fuel companies is driven by some simple figures: that known fossil fuel reserves already exceed several times over what can be burned with a realistic chance of keeping global warming within 2C, an internationally agreed threshold for dangerous climate change impacts.The trust’s director, Jeremy Farrar, has justified its decision to retain investments in oil, gas and coal by stating that the trust can wield more influence as a strong investor and changing policy from inside companies, rather than by selling its shares and shifting investment to renewable energy.The involvement of the trust’s director, in the response to the Guardian, is recognition that the energy section of its £18bn portfolio has important social and scientific dimensions, in addition to finance. It then invites the question: is this alternative to divestment scientifically credible? Can significant change really be effected from within? After all, companies are practised at presenting an attractive front of corporate social responsibility without actually devoting much revenue to such activity.For instance, I recently received an invitation from Shell to an award ceremony at which grants would be distributed to the winners of a competition for UK entrepreneurs working in the low-carbon economy. This is great, but it needs to be put in scale. The accompanying notes said that the total value of six awards this year would be £350,000, and that over the last 10 years Shell has awarded £3.15m to 98 low-carbon entrepreneurs. How much of the business activity of Shell or BP is actually being altered by representations from the trust? A quick calculation suggests that this particular bit of social investment – which was announced with a flourish – is re-routing around one part in a million of Shell’s revenue (or perhaps 10 parts per million of its profits). No doubt Shell has many other renewable energy developments, but how much do they amount to? And how much of the business activity of Shell or BP is actually being altered by representations from the trust?So far, little evidence is forthcoming. Farrar mentions frank and confidential discussions that cannot be published. Well yes, not unilaterally, but if progress is really being made it will be a public relations win for companies to publish together with the trust. It is true that a switch to natural gas provides short-term alleviation, and that carbon capture and storage will be useful if deemed to be economic.But meanwhile, Shell’s web pages speak of Arctic drilling, deep sea wells and unconventional oil: long-term investments that, just like building coalfired power stations, will lock the world into continued use of fossil fuels. To repeat, we already have reserves far in excess of what can be burned. Right now, action is more important than research – we have technology to start making rapid reductions in emissions and to help developing countries with adaptation through renewable energy.The immediate constraints are in the realm of policy, not technology. The trust’s statements seem to underrate its influence in the business and political landscape, and the effect that reinvestment will have on reducing the costs of renewable energy. Divestment, far from being simply a grand gesture, can be a switch on to a high-speed track.Can the trust show us the evidence that its negotiations as a stockholder of Shell, BP and the other fossil fuel companies are the best route towards the rapid reduction of carbon emissions? If so, we shall be delighted and relieved to learn that doubts are misplaced, and that there is a well-signposted way forward. Otherwise, we must conclude that the Wellcome Trust is not part of the solution to the problem. In this matter, the Earth and its inhabitants cannot wait for polite business exchanges.• John Sulston is a former director of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute