I have a small apology to make. A little over a year ago, confronted by a new series of Great Continental Railway Journeys, I wrote a piece confessing that I couldn’t stand its presenter. Michael Portillo, I said, seemed slimy and ill at ease on camera. I said he looked lacquered, that he dressed like an early 1990s gameshow contestant. The show itself was great, but I argued that this was despite Portillo, not because of him.But now I’m here to apologise. I’ve been watching Portillo’s new series Great American Railroad Journeys – essentially his Great Railway Journeys show with a different guidebook – and, as much as it pains me to admit this, I got it wrong. Portillo is actually a weirdly compelling host. In fact, there might not be a presenter as gleefully unselfconscious working today.Watch any of his train shows and his passion for their twin subjects – railways and history – is evident. This was no fluke appointment, no Caroline Quentin’s National Parks or Joanna Lumley: The Search for Noah’s Ark. Portillo got this job because undiluted joy for railways radiates from his very being.Admittedly, it does sometimes radiate out of him a little too aggressively. At several points in the new series, his passion spills over and he becomes a weaponised version of an embarrassing dad. He blathers poetically about rail passengers to colossally disinterested railway workers. He travels all the way up to the top of New York’s Freedom Tower, where 9/11 survivors have left a series of touching tributes to their lost friends, only to artlessly scribble MICHAEL PORTILLO 2015 in giant letters over the top of them. Then, at one point – and I promise this is completely true – a woman kisses him on the cheek, and he turns to camera and shouts “CHOO CHOO!” at the top of his voice like the horny wolf from the Tex Avery cartoons. And he does it in public, where people can see him, and you can see them starting to form unshakeable opinions about all British people based solely on this moment, and you want to crawl inside your TV and plead with them that some of us are actually OK, but you can’t and it’s all hopeless and Michael Portillo has ruined everything forever.But it’s exactly that type of attitude, the attitude that assumes the world is merely a backdrop upon which you can smear copious bucketloads of ham, that makes him so watchable as a host. He leaves nothing on the table. He’s giving the show everything he’s got, good and bad, and you’re left with the sensation that this cannot possibly be a facade. To watch Michael Portillo on a railway programme – addressing the camera as if he’s trying to order dinner in the world’s noisiest restaurant, done up like Mr Blobby at a job interview – is to peer directly into the soul of the man. So, fine, I got it wrong. And I hope he never stops making these shows. Great American Railroad Journeys is on BBC2 on Mondays at 6.30pm.