We all know that British theatre still suffers from a gender imbalance, both off the stage and on. But if it’s now accepted that women’s voices are less often heard than men’s, and many are working to rectify that situation, what about the way women are routinely presented? When you show a female character being violated or degraded, is it more problematic than if it was a man?We live in a culture where images are often more powerful than words, and in a piece in the Stage, Natasha Tripney calls for less sexism on stage from male directors. She cites the examples of Rupert Goold’s production of Richard III at the Almeida, in which Richard brutally rapes Elizabeth; the rape by Dr Faustus (played by Kit Harington) in Jamie Lloyd’s West End revival of Marlowe’s play; and the appalling degradation of Ruth Wilson’s Hedda Gabler by Rafe Spall’s Judge Brack in Ivo van Hove’s production at the National Theatre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kit Harington and Jenna Russell in Doctor Faustus. Photograph: Marc BrennerViolence is often more visceral in the theatre than it is on film. On the whole people don’t faint during horror movies, but they did during Lucy Bailey’s Titus Andronicus and at Katie Mitchell’s revival of Sarah Kane’s Cleansed. But that doesn’t mean that theatre should eschew graphic images. Mitchell’s production was almost unbearable to watch, but it was never gratuitous. The violence in Kane’s play, and Mitchell’s painfully precise, relentless staging of it, were purposeful. It would hardly be a true reflection of the world if theatre-makers chose to ignore violence towards women and presented only strong, positive images.When it comes to violence on stage, context is all. The eye-gouging that takes place in Blasted and King Lear is not there merely to shock, it’s there because it demonstrates the breakdown of human relationships in a world of wars, where all morality becomes tainted by the brutality of the battlefield. Goold’s Richard III highlights the limitless damage that unfettered male ambition inflicts on wives, mothers and daughters.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Flora Spencer-Longhurst as Lavinia in Titus Andronicus. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianIn the case of Van Hove’s Hedda (not his most compelling production, but always of interest, particularly for Wilson’s extraordinary performance), Brack’s ugly treatment of Hedda fits very well in a production that stresses her desire to live a beautiful life. In Jan Versweyveld’s design, the whole thing appears to be taking place in an art gallery, one where Hedda had expectations of holding soirees but which increasingly becomes a prison. Two pistols are already exhibited on the otherwise bare wall; there is an extraordinary moment when, in her growing frustration, she stapleguns dead flowers to the wall, like exhibits in an avant garde gallery.One way of reading Van Hove’s production is as an acute study of depression, in which Hedda is desperately trying to keep up appearances as things go from bad to worse. Like many suffering from depression, she often manages to keep up a pretty good show despite the fact that she can’t get fully dressed on a daily basis.That inability to get beyond her dressing gown provides one explanation for the difficulty that arises with all contemporary Heddas, whether presented by Carrie Cracknell, Thomas Ostermeier, or Van Hove: why, when she is unfettered by the societal conventions of the 19th century, doesn’t she just get up, walk out the door and make her own life? But this woman cannot get out of her nightwear, let alone get herself a job. She may have married for all the wrong reasons, including cowardice, but that marriage has put her in a place from where she cannot escape herself. Or indeed Judge Brack.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ruth Wilson and Kyle Soller in Hedda Gabler. Photograph: Jan VersweyveldSpall’s repellent Brack may be too overtly villainous at times, but it is a convincing study of a man who is not just a philanderer, but a misogynist who uses sex as a weapon to show how much he hates women. In the circumstances, the final indignities he heaps upon Hedda are indeed sexist, but it is the sexism of the character, not the director, that is being exposed. The scene – like watching a spider torment a trapped fly – serves a real purpose, because for Hedda it destroys the last shreds of dignity she has left.I’ve often watched Hedda Gabler and never really understood why in the end she kills herself. Through this depiction of Brack, and with that appalling final scene, Van Hove makes us understand completely why she believes that pulling the trigger is her only option, her one last, misguided, chance to find beauty.“People don’t do this,” says Brack in the final line of the play. But she has, and Brack knows why and so do we, because of what we have just witnessed. Hedda had her finger on the trigger, but it was Brack who primed the gun by sensing her fragility and preying on it. Showing it may not be pretty, and it is painfully uncomfortable to watch, but I’m not convinced it’s sexism. It is a clear reminder that despite the distance between Ibsen’s 19th century and our own times, we are still living in a man’s world.