It may be high summer, but in the bird world autumn is well and truly underway. All over Britain, birds are preparing for the season to come: swifts and cuckoos have already departed for Africa, while swallows and house martins, some of which have only just left the safety of their nests, will soon head off as well.On my local patch on the Somerset Levels, time is moving on too. The chorus of birdsong that accompanied every visit from March to June is no more; only the occasional burst of energy from a wren, the grunting of a hidden reed warbler, or the monotonous cooing of a distant wood pigeon, breaks the silence.In the absence of singing, I must rely on listening for calls – those brief and subtle sounds birds use to communicate with one another outside the breeding season. That's how, on a sultry, still afternoon, I discover a brood of spotted flycatchers in the oak trees by the car park; their thin, sibilant calls drawing both my and their parents' attention.Spotted flycatchers are one of Britain's most underrated birds. Superficially plain, greyish-buff above and pale below, they could be dismissed as just another "little brown job"; until, that is, they take flight. Then they show a surprising elegance, sallying forth from the end of a twig on long, slender wings, to grab an unseen insect in mid-air, before returning to sit upright on their perch.Once a common summer visitor to woods, parks and gardens throughout Britain, spotted flycatchers have become an increasingly infrequent sight in the past few decades, especially in the south. Like other long-distance migrants, they have been hit by a combination of habitat loss abroad and a lack of insect food at home. So to see at least two broods of youngsters chasing one another around the tree canopy is a rare and welcome treat.Meanwhile, the late summer dragonflies are dancing above the reedbeds: brown hawkers, their wings gleaming golden in the evening light; and southern hawkers, living up to their name by zooming around the foliage in search of smaller insects on which to feed. Nearby, on the open shallow water of the peat diggings, I come across a pair of black-tailed skimmers – the female interrupted in her egg-laying duties by a sexually charged male, which grabs her in a mid-air embrace.It is while I am watching this mating dance that another sound breaks my reverie: a tuneful, high-pitched fluting, announcing that autumn really has arrived. It is a green sandpiper – dark green above and snow white below – flitting around the peat diggings.This smart little wader has broken its long journey south from its breeding grounds in the forests of Scandinavia to the wetlands of sub-Saharan Africa, to stop off at my little patch. It bobs nervously up and down by the edge of the water, watched by a quartet of little egrets and a single cormorant, then takes off again and disappears out of sight.Soon it will be joined on its migration by that brood of spotted flycatchers, which despite their small size will also cross the vast Sahara Desert, to spend the winter in the forests of West Africa. As I watch them flitting around the English oak leaves in this quiet corner of Somerset, I can't help wishing them the very best of luck.Twitter: @StephenMoss_TV