Tonight, ITV2 is clearing three full hours out of its schedule to screen Grease: Live, a high-wire staging of the classic 70s musical about a bobby-sox holiday romance. This ambitious one-off has already been a palpable hit for Fox in the US, where 12m viewers got their Rizzo kicks by watching, tweeting and likely singing along in real time on Sunday night. Filmed on two large soundstages in front of a lively studio audience, it stars beaming pros Julianne Hough, Vanessa Hudgens and Broadway veteran Aaron Tveit as the central trio of Sandy, Rizzo and Danny. Amid the whooshing camera moves and excess choreography, you can also spot Carly Rae Jepsen, Boyz II Men, Jessie J and Bunk from The Wire. It is, by all accounts, electrifyin’.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the cast of Grease: Live sing Summer NightsGrease: Live may be Fox’s first attempt at a live musical, but over at NBC they have been multiplying since 2013: after the success of annual productions The Sound of Music, Peter Pan and The Wiz, the channel recently announced Hairspray as its next project. Fox is picking up the pace with a musical version of The Passion scheduled for Easter. Just as reality talent shows are looking ready for the knacker’s yard, here’s a hot new event TV trend – and ITV has clearly decided it’s one it wants to get in on. As well as scooping up Grease: Live, it staged its own live production of The Sound of Music just before Christmas. That managed solid ratings of 4m, and there are optimistic murmurs that the format could become a new seasonal ITV fixture.But these elaborate one-offs aren’t the only high-quality musical programming currently coming out of the US. Two very different sitcoms feature hefty sprinklings of Broadway-derived magic, although they showcase their own original songs rather than rehashing the standards. The first season of Crazy Ex-Girlfriend – about Rebecca, an adrift career woman who, after a chance meeting with her childhood crush Josh, abruptly moves to a different city to try to insinuate herself back into his life – is just about to reach its finale. It’s a peppy, racy, slightly unsettling comedy that feels like a more energised Flight of the Conchords. There’s no explanation for why Rebecca and those around her suddenly burst into song, but the musical numbers are deftly composed, wickedly subversive and performed with an enthusiasm that overrides any lack of technical precision.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch The Sexy Getting Ready Song (explicit lyrics) from Crazy Ex-GirlfriendRachel Bloom, the creator and star, recently won a Golden Globe for best actress in a comedy series – and yet no UK broadcaster or streaming service has picked up Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. For now, we just have to settle for YouTube highlights.Even more baffling is that no UK channel will take a punt on ABC’s Galavant, a whimsical, knowing, knights-of-old spoof that just wrapped up its second season. As well as being filmed entirely in the UK to take advantage of our authentic castles and rolling meadows, it’s absolutely stuffed with local talent: Ricky Gervais, Vinnie Jones and Hugh Bonneville all popped up in the first series, while season two features Robert Lindsay, Nick Frost, Sheridan Smith and Reece Shearsmith doing their best hoofing-and-hollering routines. It’s not all Brits gone wild – Kylie and Weird Al Yankovic also cameo – but it’s an absolute hoot, not least because it’s happy to poke fun at its own plot holes and shaky ratings.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for GalavantIt’s hard enough to write a decent joke, let alone make it rhyme, so perhaps it’s not surprising that there’s not a similar wave of musical comedy in the resource-starved UK TV industry. Perhaps a new generation of creators, weaned on Glee, might be inspired to explore the possibilities of the form if Crazy Ex-Girlfriend or Galavant found a UK platform.Britain does have one hard-working troupe flying the flag for homegrown musicals: the Horrible Histories crew, currently working on a third series of their fantasy comedy Yonderland. Highlights of the first two seasons have included a tentative acoustic love song from King Bernard and a ruthlessly machine-tooled parody of Kraftwerk. If ITV is serious about owning the live musical space, it could do worse than signing up the core cast of Yonderland crew for their next project: a live version of Labyrinth, perhaps?Grease: Live, ITV2, tonight, 8pm