It’s the most anticipated returning drama of the year, shrouded in secrecy and filmed under the sort of spoiler lockdown that would make Star Wars proud. So what do we know about series six of Game of Thrones? Here are seven things we’ve managed to find out.Davos and Melisandre are due one heck of a confrontation       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Davos Seaworth (Liam Cunningham) ... When will he find out about Princess Shireen? Photograph: 2016 HBOWhen we last saw the Red Priestess, her bids to bring Stannis victory had failed and she was riding as fast as she could to the sanctuary of The Wall. There she’ll be reunited with the late pretender’s other loyal servant, Davos, who crucially doesn’t know that Melisandre suggested the immolation of Stannis’s daughter Princess Shireen. “For both of them, their entire reason for living has gone,” says Liam Cunningham, who plays Davos. “All Davos knows is that Shireen and Stannis have gone. He has no idea Melisandre had anything to do with it. So, in the whole season, we’re waiting to see if he will find out – and if so, what will he do about it? The audience has more knowledge than he does. That weight of expectation is fantastic.”It’s time for sweet Prince Tommen to grow up      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘He needs to slap himself in the face’ ... King Tommen Baratheon (Dean-Charles Chapman). Photograph: 2016 HBOIn season five, Tommen’s wife, Margaery, had been imprisoned for lying about her virtue, while his mother, Cersei, had been paraded naked through King’s Landing. Can the young king save the day? “He’s got a lot to do,” admits Dean-Charles Chapman, who plays Tommen. “He’s got to look himself in the mirror, slap himself in the face and man up. Whether he actually does that is another question …”Bran hasn’t wasted his year out      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seer-in-training ... Bran Stark (Isaac Hempstead Wright) and the Three-Eyed Raven (Max von Sydow). Photograph: 2016 HBOThe last time we saw the second youngest Stark he was settling in under a tree to learn the truth about, well, everything really. Now, after a series out, he’s back. “Bran is definitely the vehicle to look at the past and things that might be of significance to Westeros today,” says Isaac Hempstead-Wright, who plays the seer-in-training. As to how he’s doing that – well, Max von Sydow is involved. “I have to confess I didn’t know who he was at first,” admits Hempstead-Wright. “Then I drove home with Peter Dinklage [who plays Tyrion Lannister] and he was like: ‘Oh my God, Max von Sydow! I’ve arranged a meeting with him.’ I didn’t understand. But I do now.”Arya’s Jedi-style apprenticeship is not going well      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   She struggles a lot ... Arya Stark (Maisie Williams). Photograph: 2016 HBO“This season we see Arya get a series of tasks from Jaqen, which she has to carry out blind,” says Maisie Williams of her assassin-in-training. “She struggles a lot and finds the challenges very unfair, but ultimately she learns a lot of skills she’ll take with her in a very big way.” Ooh, tell us more. “Sorry, I can’t.”Things are finally looking up for Sam      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Might someone finally get a happy ending? ... Samwell Tarly (John Bradley) and Gilly (Hannah Murray). Photograph: 2016 HBOWhen we last saw Samwell Tarly, one of the few genuinely nice people on this show, he was heading off to learn how to be a Maester with the love of his life, Gilly, and her baby in tow. Does this mean a character, just one, might finally get a happy ending? “You definitely find them in a positive place at the start,” says John Bradley, who plays Sam. So, it all goes wrong? “Well, they stumble across an obstacle very early and we don’t quite know whether Sam knew about it and is only now telling Gilly, or whether it didn’t occur to him. But jeopardy kicks in within seconds of them starting their journey basically.”The evil Boltons are consolidating their power      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nobody likes the Boltons ... Ramsay Bolton (Iwan Rheon). Photograph: 2016 HBOThey might be the undisputed kings in the North, but now that Sansa Stark has escaped with Theon Greyjoy, will we see a challenge to the Bolton hegemony? “The biggest issue for the Boltons is keeping their power,” says Iwan Rheon, who plays the creepy Ramsay Bolton. “It’s definitely a problem that Sansa has escaped. With an heir from that marriage they would have been very strong in the North – because nobody likes the Boltons, but everybody loves the Starks. Losing her means Ramsay’s position is majorly weakened.”Jon Snow is dead, OK? Definitely dead. Well, according to these people, anyway ...“There’s so much pressure on my character to perform miracles – why does everyone presume I can bring him back to life?” Carice van Houten (Melisandre).“What sort of show would you see this particular character getting 10 knives in his back and then going: ‘Oh he’s not dead?’” Liam Cunningham (Davos).“We never chatted about Arya and Jon meeting when he was on the show – it would have been lovely if they had. I imagine she’d probably just say: ‘I stuck them with the pointy end,’ and then they’d laugh. But I guess we’ll never know.” Maisie Williams (Arya).“I haven’t spent time with him on the set ... because he’s not on the set any more.” John Bradley (Sam).Game of Thrones returns on 24 April at 9pm on HBO (US) and 2am on Sky Atlantic (UK), then again at 9pm on 25 April (UK).