When I first sat down to write The Nowhere Emporium, I didn’t really think of it as a mystery novel at all. It was just a story I knew I really wanted to tell. It began with the vision of an enchanted shop, a shop that moved around, appearing anywhere, at any time. But I didn’t know why this happened. So I wrote the rest of the book to find out. And as the story developed, I slowly realised that I was writing a mystery book.What are the best Scottish children's books? This scared me a little bit.I had never written a mystery book before. I didn’t really have a clue how to do it. But it was exciting to be trying something new. So I kept going. And it seems to have turned out pretty ok.Who dunnit? Top tips for writing detective fiction So, how do you write mystery?Well, I’m still a bit of a beginner myself, but here are some things I learned along the way:1. Character is kingWhenever I read a new book, and I’ve been introduced to the characters, I ask myself a question: Are these the type of people I want to spend time with? Are they interesting? Funny? Scary? If I met them at a party would I be happy to see them? Or would I turn and run for the door? For me, a good mystery is about the characters first, and the plot second. If you care what happens to these people, then it makes the mystery all the more exciting, and the twists and turns along the way more memorable.Sophie McKenzie’s top tips for writing tight plots and building suspense 2. Know where you are going (a bit)I can’t imagine writing a mystery novel without knowing the ending. Having said that, I don’t like to know TOO much about the rest of the book. If you’re weaving a complicated plot, bringing lots of threads together, it’s probably best to plan a little. But for me, planning too much can make the actual writing of the story seem like painting by numbers. I like a little freedom, and I like my characters to surprise me and drag me in unexpected directions. I think if you know the main points of your story, and you’re sure of the ending you’re working towards, then you can have some fun along the way. And if you’re having fun it will show in your writing.Top tips for writing to frighten 3. Mislead your readersI don’t mean this in a bad way. I simply mean that the mystery will be more fun if it is tricky to solve. Real life is very rarely straight forward. People lie. People misread situations. People get things wrong. If you can use red herrings to knock your reader off the scent for a while, it’ll be all the more rewarding when everything finally clicks in their mind and they say, “Oh! I should have known that all along!”.4. Torture your characters      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A plot is basically this: Your character wants/needs something. To get it, they must overcome numerous obstacles. The more a character has to overcome, the more danger they face, and peril and pain and heartache, the more your readers will root for them and feel their joy when it all goes right in the end. Hurrah!