After qualifying in medicine from Trinity College Dublin in 1991, Dr Suzanne O’Sullivan trained in neurology and clinical neurophysiology. She has been a consultant since 2004, first working at the Royal London hospital and now at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, and the Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy.In 2015, O’Sullivan completed an MA in creative writing at Birkbeck, University of London, and published her first book, It’s All in Your Head: True Stories of Imaginary Illness (Vintage), in the same year. An acclaimed study of psychosomatic illness, it won the 2016 Wellcome book prize; the winner of this year’s prize will be announced tomorrow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘An incredibly original voice’.1 | NovelLisa McInerney’s The Blood MiraclesWhen McInerney was nominated for the Baileys prize I read Glorious Heresies and I was blown away. It’s about murder and drug-dealing in a deprived area in the west of Ireland. The characters, who live in very difficult circumstances, are all in some way connected, and the story gradually brings them together. One woman has committed a murder, one is an alcoholic who beats his children, somebody else is leaving school to sell drugs; but through the beauty of how she tells these stories, rather than judging them, you feel sympathy for them. She’s an incredibly original voice, both literary and humorous, which is a very hard thing to achieve. I understand the new book is the next instalment of the story, and I’m very excited about reading.2 | FestivalOther Voices      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Staves on stage at Other Voices, November 2012. Photograph: Sean Smith for the GuardianThis is a small music and spoken word festival in Ireland. It’s in this quaint, adorable fishing town called Dingle, full of colourful little pubs and shops, and beautiful scenery. They open the town up and have what they call a music trail, so in every pub, library, church, coffee shop they’ll have music and spoken words events rotating through the day – you can go and sit in a pub or a coffee shop and you’ll have a different group or band coming and playing every hour or so. You just sit somewhere and allow all this contrasting music to wash over you for a whole day, without moving, never quite knowing what you’ll get. It’s a lovely place to go on holiday anyway, but with the festival it’s particularly beautiful.3 | TravelColombia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Colonial architecture, Cartagena, Colombia. Photograph: Galit Seligmann/AlamyI was recently in Colombia because I was invited to the Hay festival in Cartagena – I keep getting invited to festivals that are opening up the world to me. Colombia is fascinating: it’s this mixture of mountainous rainforests where you can go walking in beautiful isolated settings, or paradise islands with perfect white beaches and turquoise sea, or a colonial-style city with wonderful architecture. It has every sort of scenery or city that you might like. I think people are worried about going there because of the problems in the past, with terrorism and kidnappings, but now there’s a peace agreement it felt really safe and the people were wonderfully friendly. I can’t wait to go back.4 | NonfictionPatient H.M. by Luke DittrichThis is a story of a patient with epilepsy in the 1950s: he was one of the first people to have brain surgery for it, but it left him with no memory whatsoever, so from the day of his operation he was never again able to form a new memory. It’s a fascinating comment on how medicine has developed in terms of our ethical behaviour, and the way we treat patients. Back then, doctors were almost experimenting on patients – doctors were all-powerful, and patients were just people they could practise on. I’ve grown up in a completely different system.5 | TheatreEnda Walsh      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Same, a new play by Enda Walsh. Photograph: Enrique CarniceroEnda Walsh is my favourite playwright by a country mile. Every play that I’ve ever seen of his I’ve found astonishing. The first one I saw was Disco Pigs, many years ago. I also loved Misterman and Ballyturk. Often, his plays will be set in a bizarre place, with two people trapped in a room, and you don’t know who trapped them or why, and it’s not terribly clear what the background to the story is. But you’re faced with these two people and you’re given that to interpret. So they tend to be very surrealist and extremely physically active, with wonderfully witty dialogue but very dark themes. He recently had a new play in Ireland – I have my fingers crossed for a UK showing.6 | RestaurantFoxcroft and Ginger      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Breakfast in Whitechapel. Photograph: Foxcroft & GingerThis is where I go when I want to have absolutely the most indulgent and delicious breakfast in London. It’s in Whitechapel, so it has this extremely trendy east London vibe – bare wooden floors, all the tables look like rough wood, lots of scattered cushions – but the service is really good and the food is delicious. They make all their own bread, and serve these big piles of poached egg and crumbled cheese and roasted aubergines – I’ve never seen the kind of combinations they present. Everything there is just very luxurious and extremely opulent.7 | TVFleabag      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fleabag - ‘raucously funny and vulgar’. Photograph: Hal Shinnie/BBCI try not to watch television, only because I love it so much and it can take up so much time. But one day I just happened upon Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s Fleabag, having heard nothing about it. It’s adapted from a play – which I bitterly regret missing, twice. It’s raucously funny and vulgar at times, but it has this incredibly sad, sentimental story running through it, about a friend who Waller-Bridge’s character has lost through suicide. It takes these raw edges and makes it so poignant, because you know she’s got this trauma she’s dealing with.