Alison Chesley is drawn to intensity, and you have probably heard it. Since the 90s, the classically trained cello player (who is better known as Helen Money) has contributed her heavy strings to more than 100 albums in all corners of rock, punk, grunge and metal. As a solo artist, she’s toured her one-woman act with Shellac, Neurosis, Sleep and Earth. She’s played live in Joe Lally from Fugazi’s band. Tracing the trajectory of her collaborations, session work and tours makes for a laundry list of notably compelling names from the past three decades of underground and alternative music.She also has a whole discography of excellent solo work herself, channeling the anxious emotional tenor of rock into wordless swells of goth-tinged strings. Chesley has often performed with just her cello, distortion and delay pedals, and sparse drumming. But for her forthcoming record, Become Zero – her fourth full-length and debut for Thrill Jockey, due this month – she incorporates piano and electronics for the first time, conveying an unprecedented depth and sorrow.Become Zero was written after the death of both of her parents. “They both passed away a couple of years ago, within a year of each other,” she says, on a phone call from Los Angeles, where she grew up and currently lives. “I didn’t really write the record about my parents, but it was the air I was breathing. As I was writing the material, I thought about how my dad passed away pretty slowly, over the course of a year, after my mom had gone. With my mom, it was just sudden. She died in her sleep. We didn’t have a chance to say goodbye. When someone leaves like that, they become nothing. We don’t know where they’ve gone. It almost is like they become zero.”The record is spare but heavy, dark but beautiful, melodic but meditative. There are charged-up rock anthems that give way to eerie calmness; distorted metal blasts and then solemn, ambient dreamscapes. “Gandhi talks about [becoming zero] too,” Chesley says. “I didn’t realize this before I used those words, but to him, it means to be humble. And your ego is zero. I like that sentiment too.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steve Albini and Todd Trainer of Shellac Photograph: Jordi Vidal/Redferns via Getty ImagesOn songs such as Radiate, textures that sound like they’re from outer space make nods to her father and his career with the Apollo and space shuttle programs; the song starts with a sweeping wall of sound, like a dispatch from the moon, complete with radio static and the sounds of pinging satellites. Blood and Bone, a piano-and-cello piece that Chesley said was a “real challenge” and her first song without using any pedals, features Rachel Grimes of Rachel’s on piano. On Machine, pizzicato plucks and ominous digital sounds make way for a meandering cello piece that emotes with humanness, followed by the crashing psych-punk of Leviathon.Chesley moved back to Los Angeles five years ago, but she really became a musician in Chicago. Growing up in the Los Angeles area’s San Fernando Valley, Chesley started playing cello in the third grade, and listened almost exclusively to classical music until her early 20s. At 22, her brother played her The Who, and it was a life-changing introduction. “At one point he played Who’s Next for me, and that was the moment,” she says. “I suddenly got why he was so excited about all of those bands. I went to see The Who when they were touring with The Clash. And then I started to go out and see punk rock bands.” She soon discovered The Minutemen (who she covers on her 2009 album In Tune), Black Flag and X, and immersed herself in their subversive west coast scene. When she eventually moved to Chicago a decade later, in 1992, to study cello at Northwestern, she was still playing classical music, but her heart was in rock and punk.While working at a coffee shop in Chicago, Chesley met Jason Narducy (who now plays with the Bob Mould Band, Superchunk, and a solo project, Split Single), and they bonded over mutual appreciation of Mould, the former singer of Hüsker Dü. Chesley was drawn to the personal and emotional qualities of Mould’s work, which she also saw in her favorite classical composers. “If you listen to Mahler and Shostakovich, they put so much of their heart into their work,” she says. “Mahler, he had a very tragic life. He wrote songs for his dead child. Shostakovich was basically writing about what was going on during the second world war. And the way he writes, you can just feel it. He’s expressing something emotional. That stuff that was also in rock.”In the mid-90s, Narducy and Chesley started an acoustic duo called Jason & Allison, which later evolved into a four-piece called Verbow. They signed to Sony’s Epic Records, and toured for seven years, opening for the likes of Counting Crows and Liz Phair, and Mould even produced one of their records. After Verbow disbanded in the late 90s, Chesley played on Mould’s The Last Dog & Pony Show, launching her career as a session player and arranger, mostly at Chicago studios such as Electrical Audio and Soma. Chesley has now played on records by Anthrax, Disturbed, MONO, Broken Social Scene, Archer Prewitt and Russian Circles.Despite her exhaustive resume and decades of practice, writing Become Zero was challenging for Chesley. There were mornings when it just felt too tough; when she wasn’t sure if she could do it. “It always feels hard to write,” she says. “It never gets any easier. But it’s always very rewarding when you can just hang in there and work through it.”Even with the difficult nature of her new record, she sees all of her work as carrying a specific element of optimism. “To be a musician, you have to have hope,” Chesley says. “You’re making this music, it’s really hard, it’s hard to get the word out about it, it’s hard to get people to come to shows. Why would anyone do it unless they have some hope that it would get out there and they could connect with people? I think that’s the nature of being an artist.”Become Zero is out now on Thrill Jockey