In a lengthy and varied playing career, the jazz trumpeter and bandleader John Chilton, who has died aged 83, was best known as leader of the Feetwarmers, the accompanying combo for the mercurial vocalist and raconteur George Melly. He was also valued for his work as a historian of jazz and the biographer of an array of significant figures.His association with Melly began in 1970, when Chilton was playing informal Sunday sessions at the New Merlin’s Cave pub, near King’s Cross in London, and Melly, then working principally as a journalist, often sat in. Sensing an association that might have some potential, the two men pooled their resources full time from 1974 and set out on a journey that endured until January 2003, when Chilton retired. By then their travels had embraced mainland Europe, the US (ideal for Chilton’s researches), Australasia and Asia. Their many recordings and TV appearances underlined their extraordinary appeal.While readily admitting that their audiences on television – including Good Time George programmes for the BBC (1983-84) – and at theatres up and down the country were not jazz fans, the smartly dressed Chilton always ensured that the band’s jazz credentials were kept uppermost. Finding new songs and composing others, he made his musical nous key to the success of Melly’s act. Their regular month-long stints at Ronnie Scott’s club over the Christmas period became legendary as much for the bonhomie and musical mayhem generated by Melly as for his excesses. On one occasion, Chilton, the calm at the centre of the storm, was prompted to announce drily: “The captain is no longer in charge of the ship,” as Melly slid into alcoholic oblivion.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest George Melly with John Chilton’s Feetwarmers on Breakfast with Frost in 1999Born in Holborn, central London, John was the son of Eileen (nee Burke) and Thomas, a music-hall comedian who was badly gassed in the first world war and sustained further misfortune when injured in a bombing raid in the second world war. John’s lifelong passion for jazz was kindled when he heard a Jelly Roll Morton track on a radio broadcast in 1944 while evacuated to Yardley Gobion, in Northamptonshire. “I just felt that I had to play jazz from that moment,” he told me, and quickly acquired a cornet, later transferring to the trumpet, and some lessons.Back in London he began to perform locally while working in an advertising agency. After his RAF national service, he moved to the Daily Telegraph, to which he contributed the occasional record review, and led his own band, turning fully professional to take a summer season at Butlin’s in Skegness on the Lincolnshire coast, leading a jazz group for jivers.Joining the Bruce Turner Jump Band, highly original providers of small-group swing, brought him some prominence, and he stayed for five years until 1963, touring continually, while admitting: “We only just got by.” The band recorded and was featured in Jack Gold’s 1961 film Living Jazz.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Chilton, third left, standing next to George Melly in his hat and checked suit. Photograph: David Redfern/RedfernsTo Chilton, Louis Armstrong and Sidney Bechet were “the great fountainheads of the music” and he became increasingly influenced in his own playing by stylists such as the trumpeters Cootie Williams and Rex Stewart who had built on the inspiration of these early masters. Even so, an offer to join a pop agency as publicist for a stable of groups, most notably the Swinging Blue Jeans, famous for their hit song, Hippy Hippy Shake (1963), was too good to turn down, Chilton recalling somewhat ruefully that he had even played piano and organ on some beat recordings.Once the beat boom was over, Chilton reverted to more familiar territory, playing in repertoire big bands and at London’s 100 Club with his quartet before forming his Swing Kings in 1966, and pursuing a similar style to that of the Turner band. Touring with visiting US trumpeters such as Charlie Shavers, Buck Clayton and Bill Coleman gave Chilton access to valuable information for his emerging interests as a historian and it was at this time that he opened his Bloomsbury Bookshop, specialising in jazz, in Great Ormond Street, near to his London home.With valuable monographs on overlooked bands such as Bob Crosby’s Bob Cats and McKinney’s Cotton Pickers to his name, and having compiled his magisterial Who’s Who’s of Jazz: From Storyville to Swing Street (1970), Chilton gained a reputation for accuracy, checking and re-checking the facts, that was acknowledged throughout the jazz world.He co-authored a fine study, Louis: The Louis Armstrong Story (1971) with Max Jones, and a definitive biography, Billie’s Blues (1975) followed. He then produced unsurpassed biographies of Sidney Bechet (1987), and the trumpeters Henry Allen (1999) and Roy Eldridge (2002); his books on the saxophonists Coleman Hawkins (1990) and Louis Jordan (1992) each won an award for historical recorded sound research from the Association for Recorded Sound Collections in the US. His Grammy award in 1983 for his album notes on the trumpeter Bunny Berigan remains a unique achievement among British writers. Chilton’s final publication was his autobiography, Hot Jazz, Warm Feet (2007).Off the road, Chilton resumed his friendship with the clarinettist Wally Fawkes, the two playing together until Chilton’s health began to fail. Invariably encouraging to other writers and generous with his knowledge, he was described by Bruce Raeburn, the curator of the Hogan Jazz Archive in New Orleans, as “a very sweet man and a formidable scholar”, and so he was.In 1963 he married the photographer Teresa Kendall. She died in 2014, and he is survived by his children Jenny, Martin and Barney, and six grandchildren.• John James Chilton, trumpeter, bandleader and jazz historian, born 16 July 1932; died 25 February 2016