On the surface Munich is very posh and bourgeois, but that’s just the shell. For all its elegance and grandeur, it’s much more about old-fashioned family values and communities. Whereas Berlin is a fast-paced place that’s constantly reshaping, in Munich people like their traditions, things don’t change easily and it’s much more down to earth than people imagine.When I was little I dreamed of living in Paris, New York or London, but the more I travelled, the more I started to appreciate my city. Whenever I come back from a crazy metropolis and land at Munich airport, it feels as though somebody has pushed the slow-motion button. That’s a feeling I value a lot.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Half German, half Japanese, Alice Sara Ott says travel has helped her appreciate her home city’s calmer ways. Photograph: Jonas BeckerNo building in Munich is allowed to be higher than the Frauenkirche cathedral. As long as this law stays in place, the city won’t turn into a concrete jungle. There are some beautiful buildings, such as the opera house and the Hercules Hall inside the Munich Residenz, the home of the Bavarian Radio Symphony orchestra. In summer, our two main orchestras perform open-air concerts in Odeonsplatz.I love walking through the old town, listening to street musicians play. In Munich, people really take the time to listen to street music.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The town hall (Neues Rathaus) and Frauenkirche cathedral in Munich. Photograph: AlamyAs a child I dreamed of playing at the Gasteig with the Munich Philharmonic. So when this happened, in 2010, it was very emotional for me. The Gasteig is not known for its great acoustics – Leonard Bernstein wrote in its guest book: “Burn it!” – and the building itself looks very ugly from the outside, but I have attended so many wonderful concerts that I feel at home here.Munich is the only place in the world you can find a truly great bretzl (pretzel). They are crispy on the outside, soft and warm on the inside – and delicious when buttered too. My favourite ones are from the Dallmayr store and from Müller Brot.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hirschgarten beer garden. Photograph: AlamyThe shops and restaurants I knew as a child still exist. My favourite shop for musical scores is Bauer & Hieber, and the staff in the Ludwig Beck store’s record department – some of whom have been there for 20 years – have amazing knowledge.If you want to experience Munich at its best, visit one of the beer gardens, where they grill steckerlfisch and spare ribs. The moment the weather starts to change for the better in spring, people flock to them.It’s funny, but people here don’t see me as German – and in Japan I’m not seen as Japanese. My father is German and my mother Japanese. The city has a surprisingly big Japanese community, with two Japanese schools, but I only went to a Japanese Saturday school.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Odeonsplatz and the Feldherrenhalle. Photograph: Murat Taner/Getty ImagesMy favourite areas of Munich are the Glockenbach quarter and the very bohemian Schwabing area. Both have lots of interesting cafes and independent shops. For brunch or tea, go to Cotidiano – The Bakery Restaurant in Glockenbach. In Schwabing, I go to I Love Leo for frozen yoghurt and, for clothes, Mohrmann Basics, which also has a cosy cafe and wonderful accessories.My favourite view of the city is the one you get while sitting next to the two stone lions on the stairs of Odeonsplatz and looking down Ludwig Street, especially after sunset when the city lights illuminate the streets. An hour out of Munich towards the south-west you come across five lakes, of which the most famous is the Chiemsee, where Ludwig II drowned. My parents live there and the landscape is indescribably beautiful. It’s my hideaway and the place I go to recharge my batteries. • Alice Sara Ott’s new album, Wonderland (the Grieg piano concerto), is out now on Deutsche Grammophon. She is touring the UK with the Philharmonia Orchestra from 15-22 November