Mutiny 9pm, Channel 4Television adventure challenges get ever more gratuitously torturous. This latest horror sees eight people – under the stewardship of terrifying SAS dude Ant Middleton – attempting to recreate the journey of Captain William Bligh and navigate 4,000 miles of Pacific nothingness in a tiny wooden boat. From the terror of storms to the indignity of the toilet facilities, it’s a gruelling expedition and a sadistically entertaining watch. Continues tomorrow. Phil HarrisonThe Kyle Files 8pm, ITVIt’s dangerous driving for Jeremy Kyle’s Files this week, as he gets himself embedded with a specialist police patrol team tackling the so-called “fatal five” – speeding, driving without a seatbelt, careless driving, driving under the influence, and driving while distracted (including the prevalence of mobile phone use at the wheel). He also speaks to a man who openly admits to having driven while under the influence of hard drugs. Ben ArnoldTravel Man: 48 Hours in St Petersburg 8.30pm, Channel 4Wonderfully awkward comic and sometime serious auteur Richard Ayoade returns with another series of celeb-accompanied jaunts, kicking off with a trip to Russia’s cultural capital. His companion is fellow comedian and 8 Out Of 10 Cats regular Rob Beckett, with whom he discovers tanks, caviar and the hipster commodification of communism. This format continues to offer a lighter alternative to self-important celeb travelogues. Hannah J DaviesHow’d You Get So Rich? 10pm, Channel 4Katherine Ryan is your good-with-people host for this snooper’s paradise. Tonight’s episode travels to Hollywood to meet a celebrity plastic surgeon (nose job price range: $12,000-$50,000 – smell the money, etc) but begins in Shrewsbury to meet the Smiths, founders of Poundland. Their business started with £50,000 from Steve Smith’s dad. On the sale of the company for £50m, they repaid him the loan with £25m. John Robinson Imagine: Alice Neel – Dr Jekyll and Mrs Hyde 10.45pm, BBC1Keep on painting no matter how difficult it is, said the US artist Alice Neel, “unless it kills you: then you know you’ve gone too far”. In this portrait by her grandson, home-movie footage and candid interviews chart the life of the figurative painter, whose troubled life (breakdowns and suicide attempts) fed into her blunt, uncompromising work, which has been compared with Kokoschka, Munch and Van Gogh. Ali CatterallThe Walking Dead 9pm, Fox Last week’s workaday episode was devoted entirely to milquetoast bottom lip-quiverer Eugene, so – with the most goodwill towards anachronistic mullets in the world – this week’s outing can only be an improvement. Rick and Michonne are out on their scrapheap challenge, scavenging for the weapons they promised their new allies in order to take the fight to Negan and his down-at-heel band of droogs. Says here something also happens in Alexandria. Something exciting? Doubt it. Luke HollandGirls 10pm, Sky AtlanticFor some, Girls is a load of hard-done-by millennial whingeing, but for others it speaks for a whole generation. Now the halfway point of its final season draws nigh and it’s business as usual for the angsty gang. Hannah’s off to interview an influential writer who’s happy to dish out advice. Adam is feeling unfulfilled but Jessa is keen to use his perma-ennui to collaborate on a creative project, while Marnie ponders her own narcissism. Of course she does. Hannah VerdierFilm choiceGreen Zone (Paul Greengrass, 2010) 9pm, Sony Movie Channel The Bourne movie team of director Greengrass and star Matt Damon reunite, and relocate to Baghdad in the aftermath of Saddam’s fall in 2003. Damon’s US officer Roy Miller is searching for weapons of mass destruction but starts to suspect that a Pentagon agent has invented them (surely not!). The plot hardly amazes, but as a war-zone action movie it presses all the right buttons. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Paris-Nice 2.30pm, Eurosport 1 Coverage of stage two of the road race, featuring a journey from Rochefort-en-Yvelines to Amilly.Premier League Football: West Ham United v Chelsea 7pm, Sky Sports 1. The Champions-elect visit the struggling Hammers.Test Cricket: India v Australia. 3.50am, Sky Sports 2. The fourth day’s play in the second Test from Bengaluru.