I have a theory: it’s harder to move into a house with people you know than with people you don’t know. Why? Expectations. The same can be said for a book club: better to be in a book club with people you don’t know than those you do.There is no expectation to talk about life stuff – the house, the job, whatever. You form relationships as you come to know one another, and a lovely bond develops. There is no expectation about what you will think of the text. As different people pick it apart, you can discover a diversity of perspectives that would not likely come from your tribe.But how do you go about joining a book club where you don’t know anyone? Simple: ask Siri! Emma Watson leaves free copies of Maya Angelou book on tube There’s a whole range of digital book clubs, hosted across Goodreads, Google Groups, Facebook, Tumblr, apps and more. Digital book clubs also avoid expectations of time management – the text can be adequately deconstructed on the bus, in bed, or at the cafe. All you need to do is log in, purchase your book and start commenting. Our Shared ShelfLast week, Emma Watson scattered copies of her book club’s latest read across the London Underground. The Harry Potter starlet slash UN Women goodwill ambassador left notes in each to be found by 100 wide-eyed Wi-Fi-less tube-riders. “When you are finished please leave it on the tube again for someone else to find,” they read. She’s annoyingly perfect, isn’t she?Emma Watson (@EmmaWatson).@BooksSubway @BooksUndergrnd @DrMayaAngelou #Mom&Me&Mom #OurSharedShelf pic.twitter.com/sSXZBVFjLzNovember 9, 2016The initiative was part of Books on the Underground’s project to bring new and used books to commuters, and served as a handy lure for likely readers to join her online book club, Our Shared Shelf, which can be found filed among other online clubs on Goodreads. Her picks are “funny, inspiring, thought-provoking and empowering” reads, spanning feminist Gloria Steinem to riot-grrrl rocker Carrie Brownstein.Sample reading list: Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide by Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn; Hunger Makes Me a Modern Girl by Carrie Brownstein; The Complete Persepolis by Marjane Satrapi; The Argonauts by Maggie Nelson; The Colour Purple by Alice Walker.Tumblr Reblog book clubWhile bloggers have hosted book clubs on Tumblr before, the Reblog book club is the first to be founded and moderated by staff. Headed by Tumblr’s director of literary outreach, Rachel Fershleiser, the picks are suitable for those 13 years and older, chosen mostly to represent the Tumblr community, which Fershleiser admits “skews a little nerdy, a little progressive and a little fandomy”.Sample reading list: Fangirl by Rainbow Rowell; The Impossible Knife of Memory by Laurie Halse Anderson; California by Edan Lepucki; Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson; Salt to the Sea by Ruta Sepetys.Between Two BooksFour years ago, fans of Florence + the Machine frontwoman Florence Welch began a book club in her honour. When the singer learned of it via Twitter, she leapt in with encouragement and suggested their first book (Opposed Positions by Gwendoline Riley). She has since supported the Facebook-based club with plugs at gigs and by taking readers questions when, for example, she interviewed Donna Tartt. Welch has also facilitated guest recommendations by poet Nayyirah Waheed and model activist Adwoa Aboah.Florence and the lit scene: how a fan's dream became a star's book club Sample reading list: The Ice Age by Kirsten Reed; Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale Hurston; A Confederacy of Dunces by John Kennedy Toole; Birthday Letters by Ted Hughes; Just Kids by Patti Smith.Women’s Lives book clubNew York-based writer and editor Rachel Syme was fascinated by the lives of women. (She used to spend nights on end trawling Wikipedia pages reading of ancient matriarchs.) In a bid to get others to pay attention to those lives, she started her Women’s Lives book club, dedicated to reading more books (mostly nonfiction) about women and by women. On the day it launched, 175 people signed up via Google groups. Since then, it has gained a tick of approval from Amy Poehler’s Smart Girls organisation, and a whole lot of momentum under the hashtag #wlclub.Sample reading list: The Silent Woman: Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes by Janet Malcolm; Wrapped in Rainbows by Zora Neale Hurston; Writing a Woman’s Life by Carolyn Heilbrun; The Witches: Salem, 1962 by Stacy Schiff; The Dead Ladies Project by Jessa Crispin.Zoella book clubBritish vlogger Zoella confesses that reading is one of the only things she does that doesn’t require Wi-Fi. Her book club does though. The YouTube star and now bestselling author has partnered with bookseller WH Smith to provide her millions of tween fans with reviews and author interviews of young adult fiction – which Guardian’s Amelia Tait has written tends towards “cute, glittery” fiction about beautiful white girls who fall for manic pixie dream boys. Sample reading list: Billy and Me by Giovanna Fletcher; Fangirl by Rainbow Rowell; We Were Liars by E Lockhart; The Sky is Everywhere by Jandy Nelson; Everything, Everything by Nicola Yoon; Beautiful Broken Things by Sara Barnard.Zoë (@Zoella)Actually beaming that so many of you love my book club picks or you're excited to read them ☺️📚October 19, 2016Bustle book clubNine months ago, US-based millennial women’s website Bustle partnered with Alloy Entertainment Group and launched its own book club and app. The club is all about nostalgia – reading books that were meaningful to Bustle’s staff in their teens. It might be a strange choice for the 18–35 demographic, but back in 2013, the site’s founder Bryan Goldberg said he was all about content being accessible. And with Bustle’s shared editorship, the digital book club makes sense: ideas for everyone that are easy to read.Sample reading list: Are You There God? It’s Me, Margaret by Judy Blume; The Witches by Roald Dahl; Hidden Bodies by Caroline Kepnes.Andrew Luck’s book clubFemale celebrities aren’t the only ones at the game of book-club-influencing. Enter American football quarterback Andrew Luck, also known as the Indiana Colt’s unofficial librarian. When he announced the club’s launch in April 2016, he admitted the nickname was “kind of cheesy ... but the truth is that I love to read both fiction and nonfiction and I feel strongly about the power of reading”. He’s got selections for “rookie” and “veteran” level readers – made up mostly of books he’s read and loved over the years.Sample reading list: The Boys in the Boat by Daniel James Brown; Maniac Magee by Jerry Spinelli; Hatchet by Gary Paulsen; The Art of Racing in the Rain by Garth Stein; The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe by CS Lewis.AL Book Club (@ALBookClub)A little #throwbackthursday photo from my travels this summer. I always find time to read. #ALBookClub pic.twitter.com/ibTJVNxME4July 21, 2016The Monthly book clubAustralian current affairs magazine the Monthly sits under Schwartz Media group, which publish Black Inc books and the Saturday Paper. They have a lot of writers – and readers – under their belt. It’s the perfect setup for a book club. It’s hosted (you guessed it) monthly by journalist Ramona Koval, and the reading list is chock-a-block with Australian writers, from Helen Garner to David Malouf and Richard Flanagan.Sample reading list: The Book of Strange New Things by Michel Faber; This House of Grief by Helen Garner; The Claimant by Janette Turner Hospital; Lovers at the Chameleon Club, Paris 1932 by Francine Prose; A Girl is a Half-formed Thing by Eimear McBride; Barracuda by Christos Tsiolkas.Wired book clubIn early 2016, US tech magazine Wired renamed its entertainment section “culture” and decided to ramp up its lit coverage. With a nod to science and technology, its digital book club covers everything science fiction and fantasy. Hosted on the site each week, staff ask leading questions (“so how about that tone in Too Like the Lightning?”) with readers responding in the comment threads.Bookmark this: from Queen Victoria to Twin Peaks – November's literary highlights Sample reading list: The Fifth Season by NK Jemisin; Ancillary Justice by Ann Leckie; The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss; The Southern Reach trilogy by Jeff VanderMeer.My Brilliant BookclubThe Melbourne-based Emerging Writers’ festival has, for three years, ventured outside the Unesco city of literature through its digital arm, the Digital Writers’ festival. This year, it hosted My Brilliant Bookclub with Stella Miles Franklin’s My Brilliant Career as the central text. Using the Genius app, readers can scribble over, talk about and unpack the online version, taking the 100-year-old text into the 21st century. Reading list: My Brilliant Career by Stella Miles Franklin. • This story was amended on 16 November to specify that the books chosen by Zoella book club are more varied than initially implied