The happy list – 30 cultural gems to brighten dark times 1. TV: Parks and RecreationA considerable number of readers recommended the NBC political satire starring Amy Poehler as Leslie Knope, a mid-ranking civil servant in the fictional town of Pawnee, Indiana. PeteCW especially recommends series two and three, “when it became the absolute pinnacle of rapid-fire, humane, absurd, deliriously politically astute hilarity”. Catherine32 is certain that “nobody could binge-watch Parks and Recreation and not feel better, for [Leslie’s boss] Ron Swanson’s life advice if nothing else”, while hathycol adds, “I could list loads of things that I watch/read for comfort but nothing beats heading back to Pawnee.”2. Book: A Confederacy of Dunces by John Kennedy TooleFour separate readers mentioned John Kennedy Toole’s classic comic novel, with Pork_Soda citing one of its many quotable lines – “Oh, Fortuna, you capricious sprite!” – a typically melodramatic pronouncement by its protagonist Ignatius J Reilly. Living with his mother at the age of 30, slothful and disdainful of modernity, Reilly attempts to find employment in New Orleans’s lively French Quarter. Not published until decades after it was written – and some 11 years after the author’s death – the novel received the Pulitzer prize for fiction in 1981. Several attempts at a film adaptation have been unsuccessful: in 2013 Steven Soderbergh said, “I think it’s cursed.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Half Man Half Biscuit in the mid-80s. Photograph: Ronnie Randall / RetnaUK3. Music: Half Man Half BiscuitMerseyside outfit Half Man Half Biscuit were a popular choice among readers, evidence of the cult following the band has steadily been accruing since the mid-1980s (fans are referred to as “biscuiteers”). Over their 30-year career, the folk-comedy-punk band described by John Peel as a “national treasure” have released 15 albums, the most recent in 2016. Notreallydavid recommends listening to the song Paintball’s Coming Home (featuring the lyrics “They’ve got the whole world in their house/ To see the new conservatory”), and wjelly suggests, “even better, treat yourself and go see them live”.4. Film: Harold and MaudeIn this 1971 Hal Ashby classic, a gloomy, death-obsessed young man called Harold (Bud Cort) meets 79-year-old Maude (Ruth Gordon) while they are both attending a stranger’s funeral. As he falls for her irrepressible lust for life (she believes in “trying something new every day”), what follows is a wild friendship that blossoms into an unconventional love story. A critical and commercial flop upon release, the film developed a cult following over the years. Reader donny501 writes it is a “life-affirming movie, full of life, love and acceptance”.5. Comedy: Morecambe and WiseKniphofia’s “heart just sang” when recently watching a repeat of one of Morecambe and Wise’s “laugh-out-loud funny” Christmas specials. In October last year, Eric Morecambe and Ernie Wise’s 43-year partnership was celebrated with the unveiling of a statue of the pair in Blackpool, a city in which they had performed on more than 1,000 occasions. For overtheseaandfaraway, a highlight of the iconic comedy duo’s illustrious career is their parody of Singin’ in the Rain – performed in the complete absence of rain – because it “wouldn’t live without the original, but may be even better than it”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mary Poppins versus Lord Voldemort at the London 2012 Olympic opening ceremony. Photograph: Anthony Devlin/PA6. Event: London 2012 Olympic opening ceremonyAlthough described by Conservative MP Aidan Burley as “The most leftie opening ceremony I have ever seen – more than Beijing, the capital of a communist state!”, Danny Boyle’s opening ceremony for the 2012 Olympics found rather more favour among our readers. Lucianna delighted in the “leftwing patriotism and really good music” of the ceremony, which featured tributes to the NHS, the suffragette movement and the MV Empire Windrush. Similarly, user AndYouGaveMeWater looked back fondly on Kylie Minogue’s performance of On a Night Like This at the 2000 Sydney Olympic opening ceremony: “The world seemed full of hope back then.” 7. Music: I Want To Hold Your Hand by the BeatlesStephen Boothroyd emailed to recommend this timeless 1963 Beatles single: “I only have to hear the introduction and I want to get up to dance and sing along. It takes me back to my happy childhood, when every new Beatles record was an eagerly awaited thrill...” This deceptively chaste ode to young love became the band’s first US No 1 and remained on the Billboard chart for 15 weeks; to date it is the Beatles’ biggest-selling single worldwide.8. Film: Planes, Trains & AutomobilesDavedave69 recommends this 1987 John Hughes comedy, in which Steve Martin stars as a travelling marketing executive who attempts to make it back home to Chicago for Thanksgiving. His only companion is John Candy as Del Griffith, a man who sells shower curtain rings for a living. As dylan37 puts it: “John Candy just made the world a better place.” User Winterspark recommends Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adventure, another classic of the American buddy-film genre, with Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves playing the titular characters, suggesting that it “should be available on the NHS as an (albeit temporary) cure for depression.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maya Angelou. Photograph: Rex9. Poem: Still I Rise by Maya AngelouJane Price wrote in to recommend this rousing 1978 poem by American civil rights activist and memoirist Maya Angelou, as it “does it for me every time. What better expression of uncrushable human spirit and what better anthem for these – or any – troubled times?” The poem was Angelou’s favourite, and she often recited it at public readings to highlight the injustices African Americans have faced over the centuries. In it she writes: “Just like moons and like suns/ With the certainty of tides/ Just like hope springing high/ Still I’ll rise.”10. Book: As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning by Laurie LeeLaurie Lee’s memoir and sequel to Cider With Rosie is an account of his journey from the Cotswolds to Spain via London. For reader GorgeousRedHead, Lee’s work is “totally inspiring”, while PatLux’s fondness for the “glorious book” is bound up in the nostalgia of “going to a library and borrowing a bagful of books for free”. Atthecoalface2 agrees: “At times when I’ve been down and desperately broke, I’ve walked out of libraries with a bag of assorted books feeling rich beyond measure [...] Pity those who have lost/are losing this cultural pick-me-up without peer.”