Anuradha Roy’s novel Sleeping on Jupiter has won the Indian author the DSC prize for South Asian literature. Worth $50,000 (£35,000), the DSC prize goes to the best work in South Asian fiction writing, and is open to any author who has based their work on the region and its people.Roy’s winning title, which was previously longlisted for the Booker, opens with Nomita, a seven-year old girl, who sees her father murdered and her brother lost, and is then abandoned by her mother. After years of sexual abuse in an orphanage, Nomita escapes through adoption to grow up in Norway. Years later, she returns to India to confront her past, and the country’s problem with violence against women and children.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Quercus PublishingSleeping on Jupiter beat novels including Akhil Sharma’s Family Life and Neel Mukherjee’s The Lives of Others to win the prize, which was awarded on Saturday at the Galle literary festival in Sri Lanka.“Many people asked me today if I knew I had won the DSC prize before the announcement came. I didn’t. I had no idea and was stunned to hear my name,” Roy wrote on Facebook following her win. “The other shortlisted books, many of which I have read, are strong and beautiful, and I had not thought mine stood much of a chance. I feel honoured and overjoyed that the judges picked my book.”Journalist Mark Tully, who was on the judging panel, said the jury had selected Sleeping on Jupiter “because of its elegance, flair and readability”.“It raises many issues succinctly and with commendable economy of words,” said Tully. “The South Asian setting is described faithfully and evocatively. Among the issues raised are the power of memory and myth, religious hypocrisy, sexuality, abuse and other forms of violence. The novel contains powerful portraits of both major and minor characters. We believe this book will be a source of inspiration to other writers.”Sleeping on Jupiter by Anuradha Roy review – lays bare the treacherous hypocrisies of Indian society The jury also included Open University emeritus professor of literature Dennis Walder, bookseller and literary coordinator Karen Allman, University of Colombo senior professor of English Neloufer de Mel, and the Bangladeshi writer Syed Manzoorul Islam.Roy continues a run of Indian winners of the DSC prize, following Bengali American author Jhumpa Lahiri, who won in 2015 with The Lowland, and the Indian poet and author Jeet Thayil in 2014. Thayil was the first Indian winner of the DSC for his novel Narcopolis.