Dickensian8pm, BBC1Although the goings-on in Albert Square are a far cry from the age of Victoria and Albert, this Dickens-themed soap has emphasised that classic literature can make for a pacy weeknight serial. Episode 10 sees the ever-sneaky Compeyson demand further payment from Arthur, while Amelia (AKA the future Miss Havisham) remains unaware of the duo’s complot. Meanwhile, Honoria disappoints sister Frances with her efforts to free their father, and the Bumbles focus their attention on moving up in the world. Ali CatterallPrimal Survivor8pm, National GeographicHazen Audel is the kind of guy you’d expect to find dealing in fractal artworks in a beach location. In fact, he’s a spurner of comfort, at ease among indigenous people, from whom he learns survival techniques. In this first episode, he’s in Papua New Guinea on a mission to a one-time headhunter hotspot. Whether eating mangled bugs (“Crunchy head,” he says with displeasure), spearing snakes or trapping fish, he matches respect for his environment with a faintly self-deprecating charm. Cool. John RobinsonThe Story of China9pm, BBC2China, as we’re often told, is on the rise. But how are we – and indeed the Chinese themselves – to understand a nation that endured a traumatic 20th century when its rulers attempted to obliterate the past? Kicking off a six-part series, Michael Wood initially joins a family reunion that turns out to be an ancestor-venerating “tomb-sweeping day”. All rather elliptical, but Wood’s wider point is that Chinese civilisation is truly ancient, and your actual history follows as he traces the deepest roots of the modern state. Jonathan WrightThe Brain with David Eagleman9pm, BBC4Who knows whether you will all agree that part one of Dr David Eagleman’s mind-probe is utterly enthralling? You won’t be seeing the same show. Eagleman kicks off with a nice easy question – what is reality? – to explore how our senses merely provide new data for brains to interpret; the resulting impression is largely based on prior assumption, and everyone’s neural pathways are unique. Eagleman’s case studies are fascinating, from a synesthete and a schizophrenic to a man whose cornea transplant didn’t help much. Jack SealeBrooklyn Nine-Nine9pm, E4Perps and recreation: any crooks keen to orchestrate a Brooklyn crime spree would do well to wait for late October. For the third season in a row, the cops of the 99th precinct are far more interested in petty one-upmanship than catching bad guys on Halloween, with Andy Samberg’s braggart detective Peralta and Andre Braugher’s stony-faced Captain Holt going to ludicrous lengths to triumph in a highly amusing heist-off. Foolishly, neither wants Santiago on their squad, which causes the bullpen prefect to go nuclear. Graeme VirtueDate My Mum10pm, Channel 4According to the Office of National Statistics, there are now around 2 million single-parent families in the UK, the majority headed up by mums. And some of their kids want to fix that. In this funny and touching documentary, a pair of single mums are steered into the path of Cupid’s dart team by the ultimate wing-men: their own children, who – having been briefed by their parents – pick potential suitors via special sites such as myLovelyParent.com, before thoroughly interrogating them. So absolutely no pressure, guys. ACBrian Pern: 45 Years of Prog and Roll10pm, BBC4Some spot-on characterisations in the second part of the latest Pern mockumentary: from Thotch’s replacement singer with a coke problem (“The night that my arse fell out was a low point”) and Brian’s Osbourne-alike kids (“His children have a funny accent, neither English nor American”) to Christopher Eccleston’s producer: “Without Brian there’d be no Beady Eye, no Shed Seven … he’s got a fucking lot to answer for.” All this, and divorcing one’s wife via Ceefax. ACFilm ChoiceShallow Grave (9pm, TCM<) Centred on a case of cash, Danny Boyle’s debut is an edgy thriller with a macabre sense of humour. Starring Ewan McGregor, Christopher Eccleston and Kerry Fox. Paul HowlettThe Mouse That Roared (Jack Arnold, 1959) 11.15am, TCMAn effervescent Peter Sellers takes on three roles in this jolly British comedy. He plays the prime minister of the tiny state of Grand Fenwick, which declares war on the US as a shaky ruse to avoid bankruptcy. Sellers also plays Tully Bascombe, who leads the archaic army’s 20-strong invasion force, and is astonishing as Grand Duchess Gloriana. PHToday’s best live sportBig Bash Cricket The first semi-final in the Aussie T20 competition. 8.30am, Sky Sports 1International Bowls The ladies final of the world indoor championships from Hopton-on-Sea. 1pm, BBC2European Rugby: Sale Sharks v Newport Gwent Dragons The sixth and final Pool Two fixture at the AJ Bell Stadium. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Golf: The CareerBuilder Challenge Day one from the PGA West Stadium Course in California. 9pm, Sky Sports 4