      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frank Cottrell Boyce. Photograph: AlamyI love being a writer. Never wanted to be anything else.When I get into a conversation with a stranger on a train or in the barber’s, and it gets to the bit where they say, “And what do you do?” I feel like I’m boasting when I admit, “Actually I’m a writer.” Then … the hammer blow … “Written anything I might have heard of?” And the only possible answer is a muttered, “Excuse me, I think this is my stop.”Until 2012. After that my answer was “I was the writer who helped Danny Boyle create the Olympic Opening Ceremony” brackets, “eat that, Morpurgo.”For a couple of years whenever my role in the ceremony was mentioned, strangers would clasp my hand, stare into my eyes and thank me for helping them feel proud to be British, even for helping them to feel British at all. The ceremony painted a portrait of a progressive, inclusive, innovative, funny nation stuffing an astonishing heritage into its backpack as it strode into a brilliant future.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Culture at the heart of our national narrative: the opening ceremony of the 2012 Olympic Games in London. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockNo. It didn’t paint a portrait. Because at the heart of the show were thousands of volunteers – men and women, mostly not actors and dancers, who turned up to hours and hours of rehearsal, in a car park in Dagenham for no pay, and did it for Britain and for each other. The ceremony didn’t depict a nation, it revealed it. It didn’t describe Britain, it WAS Britain – in the way that the Blitz spirit was or Dunkirk or The Last Night of the Proms. What. The. Hell. Happened? The press these last few weeks has been peppered with articles about how the divisive orgy of fear and loathing that was the referendum campaign was a kind of anti-opening ceremony. Divisive where that was inclusive. Soul-destroying where it was soul-lifting.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Video: the complete Olympics opening ceremonyRobert Harris called the campaign “the most depressing, divisive, duplicitous political event of my lifetime”. He said that before the murder of the MP Jo Cox. And before we found out that the whole thing had been a kind of merry public school jape. Matthew Parris said that for the first time in his life he was ashamed to be British.So was the best and biggest thing I was ever involved in, the best and biggest thing I will ever be involved in …. was that a complete waste of time? The opening ceremony put culture right at the heart of our national narrative. The story that began with the industrial revolution moved on to pop music and to children’s literature, as if to say, that’s what we did then, this is what we do now.  Culture is our industry. The opening ceremony is supposed to have redefined the nation, heralded a new era of social cohesion and national pride. But four years later that definition has been overturned. So what was the point? What is the point of culture?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A new era of social cohesion overturned by Brexit? Photograph: Pool/Getty ImagesIn 1942 some Czech partisans killed Hitler’s anointed successor, ReichsProtektor Reinhard Heydrich. In revenge the Nazis killed every man in the town of Lidice, then razed the town itself to the ground. The only adult male inhabitant who survived was a man named František Saidl who was in jail at the time. That Christmas he went home and found that there was no trace of the town in which he’d grown up. The most famous creative response to the massacre was a short film – The Silent Village – by that great poet of the cinema Humphrey Jennings. Silent Village traces the work cycle of a pit village, Cwmgiedd, in rural Powys. The first half documents a lost and beautiful way of life, full of solidarity, good manners and singing; in the second half, Jennings tries to bring the horror of Lidice home by imagining it happening in Cwmgiedd. Yes, he imagined that Wales was in Europe. The film quietly celebrates the day-to-day routine of the village, something that Jennings achieved by spending months there. As a thank you for the hospitality he received in Cwmgiedd, he gave a series of talks about the coming of the Industrial Revolution using some cuttings he’d begun to collect … poems, newspaper articles, diary entries: eyewitness accounts of the coming of the machine. Pandæmonium by Humphrey Jennings – review He eventually published a selection of these in the London Bulletin but he carried on collecting them, creating a giant matrix of these images – like a prose version of his film masterpiece – Listen to Britain. He never finished it. It was eventually knocked into shape by his daughter Marie-Louise and his Mass Observation colleague Charles Madge and published as a book, Pandaemonium, in 1985.The book was well received but not a bestseller, and it went out of print. I would never have come across it if my friend Julien Temple hadn’t lent me a copy. If you’ve watched Julien’s brilliant documentaries about Glastonbury or Detroit or Wilko Johnson you’ll see that Jennings technique of historical cut-up working its magic. My Dad found a copy of the book in a secondhand shop and bought it for me so I had my own copy.A few years later Danny Boyle was directing Frankenstein at the National Theatre and I immediately thought of Pandemonium, which has thrilling stuff in it about electricity and lightning and magnetism. The cheapest copy I could find set me back £42.50. I was generous enough to buy it but not generous enough to forgo mentioning the cost. I handed it over saying: “You’d better read this. It cost me £42.50.” Danny loved it. I don’t know how much influence it had on Frankenstein because I couldn’t get tickets. But when it came to the opening ceremony, it was key. Danny had one key word for us – visceral. How do you make people feel rather than just admire. That’s where his idea of forging the rings from muscle and sweat and steel there in the stadium came from.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Industrial Revolution … echoed in the ‘forging’ of the Olympic rings during the London opening ceremony. Photograph: Niviere/SIPA/Rex/ShutterstockOnce he’d had that idea, Jennings’s book gave us the context, and the chimneys and the steam and the title.So something that started life as a series of talks in a mining town eventually formed the backbone of the first massive global media event of the digital age – watched, tweeted, “favourited”, streamed by billions of people across the planet. Jennings’s account of the first Industrial Revolution became in itself a landmark in the new digital revolution. The great editor and writer Diana Athill wrote a piece about watching the ceremony and noticing that debt, thinking … it can’t be, can it? No one’s read that book. But it is… If you want to get a “visceral” sense of how long that journey is, take a look at The Silent Village itself. It’s there on YouTube. You can see Cwmgiedd – impossibly remote in time and culture now. It’s extraordinary to think that these diffident men with their hats and their ornate facial furniture and these fierce women in their shawls and black and white lives were the first participants in an event that starred Dizzy Rascal and the Arctic Monkeys.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch The Silent Village by Humphrey JenningsI’ve told this story because it seems to me a really clear, beautiful case study in how culture works, of how a cultural legacy is passed on. In particular I want to draw attention to the central role of generosity, kindness. No one who had a copy of the book paid for the book. My Dad bought my copy. I bought Danny’s …. it was a gift. And this is congruent with the nature of the ceremony. As I said, it was performed by volunteers who asked nothing in return except the joy of doing it. The impulse of delight.Actually, one person did buy his own copy and that was Rick Smith. A hardback! I said, what did you pay for that? He said, I’m embarrassed to tell you. Rick composed the music for the ceremony. You’ll remember it was a kind of percussion concerto led by Evelyn Glennie but accompanied by a thousand drummers. One night he needed to record a mighty shout. It signals a gear-change in his music for that opening section … at the end of a very long, wet, gruelling, thankless day of rehearsing he addressed his drummers - who by the way were playing buckets not drums because we couldn’t afford drums – and said, I can’t ask any more of you. It’s wet. It’s late. It’s no disgrace to go home but I do need some of you to stay if you can to record this shout. They stayed. All of them. It was heart-stopping.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Percussionist Dame Evelyn Glennie performs at London 2012. Photograph: Lars Baron/Getty ImagesRick likes to say that music is the liquid architecture in which we live our lives.I’d like to add that this kind of giving - giving of time, of books, of ideas - is the metabolism that drives culture. It’s not just the volunteers but the network of community projects - the faith groups, the church choirs, the community dance projects, pub quiz teams - from which they largely came. Increasingly the arts are having to justify their own existence in utilitarian financial terms Why is this worth saying? Because increasingly the arts are having to justify their own existence. And increasingly they do so in utilitarian financial terms.The phrase “every pound invested on the arts returns seven” has become a kind of mantra. If it’s true – great. Thrilling. Essential.But that verb “invested” distorts our perception of how art happens. Even at the business end. Look at a global West End smash turned Spielberg movie: War Horse. The origins of War Horse lie in Michael Morpurgo’s generosity – he runs a charity called Farms for City Children. He noticed that one of those kids who found it hard to talk to his classmates seemed comfortable around the horses. There’s Michael’s generosity of attention as well as the straightforward charity of the farm here. For decades the kindest thing you could say about War Horse was that it was an unfairly neglected book. Then … the alchemy of puppetry and a great movement director in Toby Sedgwick ... and then the big hit, again at the National Theatre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alchemy … War Horse at the National Theatre, London. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the Guardian Innovation doesn’t come from the profit motive.  Innovation comes from those who are happy to embark on a course of action without quite knowing where it will lead, without doing a feasibility study, without fear of failure or too much hope of reward. The engine of innovation is reckless generosity – something we celebrated at the opening ceremony by having an appearance from Sir Tim Berners-Lee – inventor (but not patent-holder) of the world wide web. If he’d held on to the patent, the web would have been limited to what he could imagine doing with it.  Imagine that.  I understand why people reach for the “it’s a good investment” defence but I believe that idea that culture works like any other business is not just misleading but is now infecting the way we see cultural participation. Big cultural events like War Horse or the opening ceremony are fed by an ecosystem that depends on all kinds of cultural participation– from parish choirs to local drama groups (Coronation Street has for years been heavily dependent on Oldham Youth Theatre), on community carnivals – whether that’s Notting Hill or a Scottish Common Riding or Eid or a Welsh Eisteddfod. On FUN.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ecosystem of cultural participation... Notting Hill Carnival. Photograph by David Levene Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian But increasingly, young people are now invited to participate in sports and arts not for fun, not as part of their own growth, but as a potential career path. Adrian Tempany has written brilliantly in his book And the Sun Shines Now about the way children’s football has been privatised. What was once a free-range, disorganised sociable activity has now been privatised into a world of junior leagues, soccer camps, goal alerts and skills training. Great if you’re going to be a footballer. But who is going to be a footballer? Not many. In the meantime all the other benefits you got from a kick around – independence, physical fitness … in my own case that priceless thing - an early experience of utter failure. All of those are lost. Good readers make better engineers, and bakers, and surgeons, and parents and partners and are just a lot happier  The same is happening around reading. Increasingly I find that when I visit schools as a children’s writer I’m expected not so much to entertain children with a story but to inspire and advise young writers. There’s a lot of talk of wow words and fronted adverbials and ways to make your sentence more interesting. Of course it’s massively important to help children express themselves and to encourage creativity – though, by the way, the phrase “fronted adverbial” has no role in that – but, and again, who’s going to be a writer? Not many. So an experience of enrichment becomes an experience of failure.  I don’t write to help inspire people to become writers. I write to inspire them to become readers. Because I believe good readers make better engineers, and bakers, and surgeons, and parents and partners and are just a lot happier. If we infect what happens between the writer and the reader with the vocabulary of transaction then we endanger something absolutely essential. The idea of the gift. The powerful thing about the gift – as opposed to an investment – is that its consequences are impossible to predict.  Years ago while working on a film about the war in the Balkans, I became interested in the stories of children who were caught up in the ethnic cleansing. How did it feel to have your life and your relationships turned upside down purely on the grounds of your racial identity? I interviewed a woman who had written about these things. A Roma woman called Mariella Mehr. She had grown up in Switzerland where - shockingly - Roma children were taken away from their parents on the thinnest of pretexts, then brought up in institutions where, supposedly, they would have a better chance of becoming valuable Swiss citizens. Mariella had been in thirteen different institutions, narrowly missed a lobotomy and had her own child confiscated. Yet when I met her she was an articulate, charming, outward-looking politically active, distinguished writer. I asked her about all that rebellion, the repeated expulsions … I asked her … how did you know there was something to rebel for? How did you know - growing up in this regimented institution where you were defined entirely by race - how did you know you were worth more? And she said said something I have never forgotten … it’s the thing that made me want to be a children’s writer … she said, I read Heidi. As a Roma girl, Mehr was given Heidi as part of a programme of integration. But that's not what she took from it       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Swiss national totem... Heidi. Image Blue Lantern Studio/Corbis Photograph: Blue Lantern Studio/CorbisNow I know why she was given Heidi. She was given it because it’s a Swiss classic. A national totem. She was given it as part of the programme of integrating herself into Swiss society. But that’s not what she took from it. The book stayed with her and became part of the way she thought. It fed a hunger in her. Now. If the teacher had asked her – as children are asked now – to write a letter to Johanna Spyri telling her why you loved the book, why it “inspired” you … (I get a packet of letters like that every week) if she had been asked to write the story from the point of view of Clara … I feel that the charge of that book would have been earthed. Its fuel spent. The transaction between writer and reader completed. By a thank you letter.  Of course there is a place for literary analysis and teaching appreciation. And I actually love those letters. But there’s a much much more important place for just feeding the imagination. For just letting things sit.  While he was working on the opening ceremony Danny had some meetings with David Hockney and talked to him about the industrial revolution and Hockney gave him this astounding image. Think of it, he says, the sun pours down its energy onto the surface of the planet for millennia. The leaves soak up the energy. The trees fall and turn to coal. Coal is solid sunlight, the stored memory of millions of uninhabited summers. Then one day, in Coalbrookdale, someone opens a hole in the ground and all that stored energy comes pouring out and is consumed in furnaces, engines, motors.  When we – teachers, parents, carers, friends – read to our children, I believe that’s what we’re doing. Laying down strata of fuel, fuel studded with fossils and treasures. If we ask for anything back, we burn it off too soon. A nation is not an opening ceremony. But it’s not a referendum either  Why is this important? Why am I talking about it? Because I fear that the places where this kind of generosity thrives are being destroyed. What are those places? Public spaces. Parks, playing fields, scout huts, libraries and especially school libraries. I regularly go to schools now where there is no library. Or the library has become a “Learning Resource Centre” - which means it’s been kitted out with computers and made to look like a call centre. A book is not a learning resource. It’s the knife that picks the lock of your isolation. It’s a box of delights.We are not fighting hard enough to protect that habitat - those playing fields, carnivals and libraries – because we’ve bought into the idea of culture as career, as something that can thrive just as well in a lesson or a soccer camp. When people talk to me about the contrast between the ceremony and the referendum, I remember something that people have forgotten. No one was expecting the Opening Ceremony to be any good. “Britain’s embarrassment,” warned the Independent, “will be witnessed by a global audience of a billion people.” That thought made going to work easy! I remember coming out of Three Mills studios one night, walking up to Bromley by Bow tube, past the 24 Hour Tesco feeling weary, dejected and anxious. I was overtaken by a crowd of people. At first I couldn’t figure out who they were - all shapes and sizes, all different backgrounds and ethnicities, all headed the same way, each carrying a bottle of water, all of them aglow. Then I realised, these were the volunteers. I caught the train with them and as they piled off at each station I was reminded of Larkin’s great poem, The Whitsun Weddings and how, as the train full of weddings steams towards its destination:walls of blackened moss Came close, and it was nearly done, this frail Travelling coincidence; and what it held Stood ready to be loosed with all the power That being changed can give. We slowed again, And as the tightened brakes took hold, there swelled A sense of falling, like an arrow-shower Sent out of sight, somewhere becoming rain.This was my epiphany. That it was really about the participants. From then on I remembered them in my prayers every night saying let them fly like arrows let them fall like rain. A few days ago I went to see a documentary about them in a cinema in Dalston in East London. Dozens of them turned up, in their costumes, with their buckets and they played outside, with all the power that being changed can give. Still flying like arrows. Still falling like rain. Above all, still together. Because if culture has any function at all, it is that. To bring us together, round the campfire, the television, the stadium, or the Albert Hall.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Olympic volunteers dance during a flash-mob at the Eurostar terminal in St Pancras station, London Photograph: John Stillwell/PA They are still there. A nation is not an opening ceremony. But it’s not a referendum either. A nation is a project. As Larkin says earlier in his poem, it is a “frail travelling coincidence”. The nation we saw in the opening ceremony and the nation we saw in the referendum are both real. They’re two parts of diptych. One holds out the possibility of inclusion and ease. The other might be seen as a kind of scream of pain and fury that tells us how it feels to be excluded from that ease.  We need to listen to both.This article was corrected on 18 July 2016. The book Heidi was written by the female author Johanna Spyri, not Johann Spyri as stated in an earlier version.