1972: The Future Of Sex, BristolThe Bristol-based Wardrobe Ensemble pinpoints 1972 as a pivotal moment for sex: the pill had brought freedom and Aids had not yet caused fear and panic. This production was seen at Edinburgh last summer and now sets out on a deserved tour. It’s a sharp little show with a great soundtrack, and sees its characters grapple with acne, sausage casserole and sexual identity. It also recognises that the bedroom is as much the place to consider sexual politics, equality and power dynamics as any other arena of life. It’s fun, thoughtful and little bit sad, too, in its suggestion that maybe the baby boomers didn’t have it all.The Wardrobe Theatre, Tue to 26 Mar; touring to 18 JunLGThe Nap, SheffieldSheffield’s Crucible is almost as famous for snooker as it is for theatre, and writer Richard Bean cheekily combines the two in this world premiere of a comedy thriller, directed by Richard Wilson. The cast will be joined by professional snooker player John Astley to tell the story of local Sheffield lad Dylan Spokes (played by Jack O’Connell), who finds that his dreams are coming true when he defies the odds and makes it into the second round of the competition at the venue. But, in what should be the biggest week of his life, Spokes is finding that things are getting infinitely more complicated; and with his dad and local gangster, Waxy Chuff, on his case it looks as if he’s going to find it hard to avoid being snookered both on and off the green baize. Mark Addy and Ralf Little also star.Crucible Theatre, Fri to 2 AprLGThe Painkiller, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Shaun WebbThe stage setting is two hotel rooms with one adjoining door. It can only be a farce, and a French one at that: it’s The Painkiller by Francis Veber. It was staged in Belfast five years ago with Kenneth Branagh and Rob Brydon in the lead roles, and the piece – adapted and directed by Sean Foley – gets a West End premiere as part of the Kenneth Branagh Theatre Company season at the Garrick. Brydon plays a disaster-prone photographer whose wife has left him. He has checked in in order to check out of this life by killing himself; his hotel neighbour (Branagh) is a smooth hitman. Cue role reversals, mistaken identities, slapstick and, of course, much slamming of that door.Garrick Theatre, WC2, Sat to 30 AprMCCosy, CardiffIf there is one thing that is certain in life, it is that we will eventually all die. But Rose, rendered invisible by age, is determined to make an exit at the moment she chooses. She wants a good death but her three daughters are all determined to have a say. The latest dark comedy from Kaite O’Reilly features an all-female cast and it shouldn’t be a cosy experience at all, given that it challenges one of the last great taboos. The show is supported by the brilliant Unlimited programme, which embeds work by disabled artists into the UK cultural sector and aims to change perceptions about differently abled people. If you can’t catch it in Cardiff, it will be performed as part of Unlimited’s London and Glasgow festivals.Wales Millennium Centre: Weston Studio, Tue to 12 MarLGMiss Atomic Bomb, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Miss Atomic BombNot many shows feature a beauty pageant set against the backdrop of the Nevada atomic bomb tests of 1952 (though it sounds like something Terry Johnson might have written). Miss Atomic Bomb is a new – and, surprisingly, British – musical comedy by Adam Long, Gabriel Vick and Alex Jackson-Long, starring Catherine Tate and Dean John-Wilson (who will play Aladdin in Disney’s West End production in May). The story focuses on four friends: a farm girl, a fashionista, a deserting soldier and his hotel-manager brother, who pit themselves against the military and the mob. Bill Deamer, Oliver award-winning choreographer for Top Hat, and Long, creator of The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged) direct.St James Theatre, SW1, Mon to 9 AprMCJinny, DerbyIt is 60 years since Jimmy Porter first burst on to the stage in John Osborne’s Look Back In Anger. Derby Theatre is reviving Osborne’s play (to 26 Mar), but the theatre is also responding to the misogyny of the original by offering a female perspective. Imagine Jimmy as a contemporary young woman and you have the set-up for Jane Wainwright’s new play. It focuses on 25-year-old Jinny, who has a degree but no purpose and who wants considerably more than what life seems to be offering her. Joanna Simpkins plays a modern angry young woman who grew up thinking she could have it all and feels she’s been a sold a pup.Derby Theatre, Mon to 23 MarLG