Vinyl or digital? As a modern gal, I find that the digital medium is the most convenient. I am constantly on the road and appreciate the practical and immediate nature of it. However, does anything compare to the sound of a vinyl record? I think not. My favourite song is one that was sung by my grandfather George when I was growing up and sung by my father now. It’s called “Rah halfak bel ghosn ya asfour” and was originally sung by Wadih El-Safi, who was known as “Frank Sinatra of Lebanon”. It is a gorgeous song which evokes great nostalgia for me. I found a recording of it on iTunes, and it appears to have been taken directly from a vinyl – the crackling sounds on the recording make me even more nostalgic. What was the first record or cd you bought?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Bee GeesI can’t recall what the first one I bought was, but the first CD that was given to me is the Bee Gees’ Spirits Having Flown. I still love the Bee Gees. Sometimes I feel I was born in the wrong decade!... and what was the last piece of music you bought? A piano/vocal score of Jules Massenet’s Hérodiade. I sang the role of Salomé with Washington Concert Opera in November alongside my dear friend Michael Fabiano. The last time this piece had been performed in the US was in 1994 in San Francisco. It was a complete joy and privilege to sing this sensuous and colourful music. Why is it done so rarely?What’s your musical guilty pleasure? La Traviata review – drama and subtle insights Nothing that gives me pleasure makes me feel guilty. Should I feel guilty about that? Did you ever consider a career outside of music? Doing what? I didn’t grow up exposed to classical music. My childhood fantasy was to be a pop star, but I had tremendous stage fright which I never thought I could overcome, so my plan was to go to nursing school. I had taken all the required high-school courses, and was working part-time at the local Children’s Hospital. All was set. But when it came time to apply for the University’s nursing program, my parents said to me: “Joyce, you have a voice... you should be singing,” and encouraged me to audition for the music program at the University of Ottawa. I was accepted. Yet even at that point I still wasn’t certain that I belonged in classical music, but that same season I was involved in the department’s production of Bizet’s Carmen. Listening to the recording of Maria Callas singing the title role got me hooked.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What single thing would improve the format of the classical concert? There should be more connectivity. As an audience member I always wonder what process the performer has gone through to prepare the music and what their thoughts and feelings about it are. I would love to see more interaction between the audience and performers. Live performance is really an exchange, a conversation and I enjoy venues that permit the performers to talk to the audience and share thoughts about what they are about to present. I think it helps people not to feel intimidated, and means they might come back to the concert hall. Oh - and more comfortable seats!If you had to pick one work to introduce someone to the wonders of classical music, what would it be?  Verdi’s Requiem. It goes right to the heart. I love to play the Dies Irae for a classical music newcomer, and watch their reaction as this music washes over them. More often than not, they have a very visceral reaction – a goosebumps and jaw-on-the-floor type response. It’s wonderful to witness! The Requiem contains so much emotion which we can all relate to: fear, desperation, love, hope, devotion. Singing it is a joy and privilege, and listening to it really gets my heart pumping in more ways than one. In fact, I frequently hit the treadmill with it blasting in my ears!    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Where is the most unusual place you’ve performed? My mentor, the late Maestro Lorin Maazel invited thousands of people into his backyard by starting a summer music festival on his estate in Castleton, Virginia. It’s where I essentially launched my career. The festival is set on a 600-acre farm, where the greenery, the rolling hills, the crickets, the stars all contribute to making this a very special place to make music. There I sang Suor Angelica, Lauretta, Mimi and Desdemona. It is certainly an unusual setting for opera and concerts, but bringing the music into the middle of nature makes it that much more meaningful. We’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why? I would love to travel to the 1830s and 1840s and witness the premieres of several operas I’m currently studying. What I wouldn’t give to be in the presence of such brilliant composers and ask them a thousand questions! I’m currently preparing various repertoire for a solo disc recording with Opera Rara. It is a tribute to Belgian soprano Julie Dorus-Gras, who was the creator of multiple roles during the 1830 and 40s. She sang the first performances of Alice in Robert le Diable, Pauline in Les Martyrs (which I had the privilege of recording with Opera Rara), Teresa in Benvenuto Cellini, Euxodie in La Juive, and Marguerite de Valois in Les Huguenots, among others. To sit in the theatre as these performances were given by her would be a gift of the highest order.What is the best new piece written in the past 50 years?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It would be quite a bold statement for me to pronounce what is the best new piece in the past 50 years. I will say, however, that Emmeline by Tobias Picker is at the top of my list. The score is haunting, luscious and rich. I sang the lead role two summers ago at the Opera Theater of St-Louis. It was a life-changing experience - It raised the bar for me dramatically and vocally and emotionally, and now it’s the measuring stick by which I assess all my performances. If you had time to learn a new instrument, what would it be?  Definitely the cello. I would love to be able to play the Dvorák Cello Concerto. String players, I’ve heard, are often told to “sing”, while singers are often told to “bow”. I feel the cello would come quite naturally to me. Who knows, I may still take it up! What do you sing in the shower? Nothing exciting, I must admit – usually, I have to sing some scales as I’m about to go to rehearsal. Often times, I end up singing what I’m working on. When I’m not getting ready for rehearsal, I do more listening than singing in the shower. I usually have Gerry Rafferty radio playing on Pandora – definitely a NON-GUILTY pleasure! Joyce El-Khoury sings Violetta in Verdi’s La Traviata at the Royal Opera House, in rep until 1 February.