Juliet Mabey is listing some of the topics covered by the novels she’s published. There’s Majok Tulba’s Beneath the Darkening Sky, about a child soldier in Sudan. There’s Naomi Benaron’s Running the Rift, about the war in Rwanda. When she mentions the Armenian genocide, her husband, Novin Doostdar, with whom she founded the independent publisher Oneworld Publications 30 years ago, raises his eyebrows. “It has to be genocide, rape, genital mutilation, really cheerful subjects, things to ease you into sleep,” he says, sardonically.The Sellout rips up rulebook for what award-winning fiction looks like Whatever it is that makes Mabey acquire the fiction she does, it’s clearly working. She is the editor responsible for acquiring and publishing the last two winners of the Man Booker prize: Marlon James’s A Brief History of Seven Killings, a fictionalised account of the attempted murder of Bob Marley which judges called “extraordinary” last year, and Paul Beatty’s satire of racial politics in America, The Sellout, which the jury compared to Swift and Twain when it won the £50,000 award in October. It was turned down 18 times before it reached Oneworld.It’s an incredible achievement for any publisher, let alone one the size of Oneworld – its staff currently hovers around 23, and Mabey only started publishing fiction in 2009.We meet a few days after Beatty’s Booker win. A new printing of The Sellout is piled in the corner of the room; Oneworld rushed through a 180,000-copy reprint following its win, and Mabey and Doostdar are slowly emerging from a flood of congratulatory emails. “Everyone is now expecting a hat-trick. We have received so many emails about that,” says Doostdar.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I felt his book was so timely’... Paul Beatty, first American writer to win the Man Booker prize. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianThe couple met as students in the late 1970s, Mabey studying anthropology, Doostdar going on to work in accountancy. “She married me because she wanted to go to Iran,” says Doostdar, deadpan. “I said we had an oil well in our back garden and she believed all that. She wanted a free translator and a green card.”“I was very keen to go and study the Qashqai tribes in Iran but he still hasn’t taken me,” says Mabey.They moved to Cyprus for Doostdar’s work. Mabey brought up their four children until life as a housewife began to pall, and in 1986 they decided to give publishing a try. “I gave up work and we went into this thing, and soon after that realised we couldn’t stay there [in Cyprus] and moved to Oxford,” says Doostdar. I did the one-week introduction to publishing course; he did the two-day introduction to paper With the children in school, they set up an Amstrad computer in their dining room and dipped their toes in the water. They knew exactly what kind of books they were aiming to publish: nonfiction for a broad audience.“There was no internet then, so there was no way of filling that gap,” says Mabey. “I went into Dillons and said ‘I’m really interested in psychology.’ And they’d say: ‘Here’s the complete works of Freud’ or ‘here’s an A-level text book.’ There was nothing in between. So we really wanted to get academics to write for a broad audience. Our job was to seek out academics and ask them to write and then do a lot of editing and help them to understand broad audiences – no jargon, no footnotes, make it interesting.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We could have filled the niche quicker if we’d gone to agents’ … Juliet Mabey. Photograph: Mark RusherKnowing nothing about publishing – “I did the one-week introduction to publishing course, and he did the two-day introduction to paper” – they didn’t approach agents. Instead, they went directly to authors and built their list “very slowly”, a book at a time.“We could have filled the niche quicker if we’d gone to agents but it just wasn’t a world we were familiar with. They didn’t know us and we didn’t know them. We didn’t start proactively seeking out agents until 15 years later,” says Mabey. “I think one of the reasons we did start going to agents proactively was because we’d see books on other people’s lists that we felt would have been perfect for us, but people didn’t know us and what we were doing.”Today, Oneworld has covered topics from psychology to religion, politics and art. This April, it acquired the Panama Papers at the London Book Fair, and had it in bookshops in seven weeks. “We translated it from German, edited it, typeset it, proofread it and indexed it and printed it in that time,” says Mabey. “We had five translators. They worked over the weekends to get it done. We were proud of that.”And the publishers still know what type of book will fit their list. “I think people see us as quite worthy, and we’ve tried quite hard over the last 10 years to broaden our list. We’re doing more on nature and history and things, because it’s really about making information and ideas as accessible to as broad an audience as possible,” says Mabey. “We actually say it’s Oneworldy. It’s an actual adjective.” For us it’s not a question of how do we publish more diversely, it’s that we’re looking for diversity all the time This is largely why they took the step into fiction in 2009, more than two decades after Oneworld was founded. “[Novels] take you into another world or another culture and bring it home to you in a way that you empathise with the characters and therefore you remember the issues and think about them,” says Mabey.“If you take The Sellout, if we’d done a nonfiction book on racism – which we have, actually – X people will read it. But if you do a novel, particularly a funny, satirical novel that really points some quite sharp fingers at what is going on – it’s set in America but it’s applicable to a degree to most countries in the world – a lot more people will read it, and it gives them a chance to empathise with the people experiencing that.”When Oneworld put the word out that it was looking for fiction, Mabey was offered Jamaican novelist Marlon James’s The Book of Night Women, which went on to become the first novel Oneworld published. “I just thought wow, I can’t believe this is on the table, but it had been turned down by everybody – it was seen as very much an American or Jamaican issue,” Mabey says. Set on a slave plantation at the end of the 19th century and written entirely in pidgin English; Mabey says she “couldn’t have chosen a more perfect first novel”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marlon James, who won the 2015 Man Booker prize for fiction for A Brief History of Seven Killings. Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianSix years later, James would go on to win the 2015 Man Booker for his third novel, A Brief History of Seven Killings; a Oneworld victory followed up by Beatty’s The Sellout in 2016. Like James’s previous novels, The Sellout had also been widely turned down by UK publishers – until Mabey was alerted to its existence by the Sunday Times’s literary editor Andrew Holgate, and acquired it shortly afterwards.“I felt his book was so timely, and I just think satire is a very clever way of making your point. You can read it as a funny book or as a book with some really serious things to say. I felt it was the right book for the time, both in America with the racial element affecting the elections, and here with Brexit and the rise in hate crime,” says Mabey. We're looking for diversity all the time. It's possible agents and booksellers don't see the world the way we do At the start, Oneworld was publishing four or five novels a year. Now, it’s up to 14, on a list of 60 new titles next year. Coming up, the independent publisher has a host of novels it is hoping will be contenders for the Man Booker International prize for translated fiction – including Mexican author Laia Jufresa’s Umami, Russian writer Vadim Levental’s Masha Regina and Argentinian author Samanta Schweblin’s Fever Dream.“Translated fiction makes absolute sense, because if you limit yourself to the English language you cannot express the different views of people all over the world, and the diversity,” says Mabey. “For us it’s not a question of how do we publish more diversely, it’s that we’re looking for diversity all the time... It’s possible agents and booksellers don’t see the world the way we do, but I hope that’ll change.”She is clear that the novels she chooses – Oneworld’s award-winning fiction list is purely down to Mabey’s taste – are those which “have something important to say, but not in a worthy way”.“It has to be great writing, really good storytelling, a strong voice, a strong story, and something else about it that makes you think, that stays with you, that you mull over,” she says. “If you look at James and Beatty, both of them have that edginess to them that ‘this is important, this is opening a world that you ought to see and that you probably aren’t aware of’, and that’s what makes it special for me. I’m not saying everybody buys books like that, but to me that’s what makes it great – although maybe it’s what makes it risky for everybody else.”'Crazy but fantastic': Man Booker prize pitches tiny publishers into big league Despite the success two consecutive Booker wins have brought them – A Brief History of Seven Killings has sold around 360,000 copies to date, and The Sellout is at the top of the books charts since its win – Doostdar and Mabey have no wish to sell up and become part of a large corporate entity. Thirty years on, the couple still share an office, and still believe remaining independent is the way to go.“I don’t think either of us are very employable,” admits Mabey. “A lot of small indies get bought and then you just lose your sense of purpose and your vision, it gets corrupted. We are very fortunate that within reason we can buy what we like. I can take a risk because it’s my money ... I would struggle if I had to pitch some of my choices to a roomful of largely men basically trying to get me to defend why a book is great.”