To be considered a genius, you need only one great idea. For Moses, it was parting the Red Sea, then closing it with Pharaoh’s army still inside. Bach had counterpoint. And Lady Godiva did that thing with the horse.Six decades ago, Roger Corman got a really great idea. Realising that young people were being ignored by Hollywood, he began making tons of super-low-budget films about vampires, monsters, mutants, ghosts and moody bikers. The films had names such as Swamp Women, She Gods of Shark Reef, The Pit and the Pendulum, The Fast and the Furious. This was preferable to films with names such as That Touch of Mink and Father Goose.Though Corman, now 90, made lots of horror films, he didn’t just make horror films. For one very good reason.“Horror films always do well,” he says. “But in cycles. One horror film will do well, and people will make lots of horror films, saturate the market until there are too many horror films and people will slow down making horror films. And then it’ll start up again.”Corman made hundreds of campy films with low production values using unknown actors, unproven screenwriters, neophyte cameramen and directors who were learning the ropes. They were kids, and kids are cheap. All told, he directed 55 films and produced or co-produced almost 400. This quickie, no-frills approach – The Little Shop of Horrors was shot in less than three days – helped launch the directing careers of Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola, Jonathan Demme and James Cameron, and the acting ones of Jack Nicholson, Sylvester Stallone, David Carradine and Sandra Bullock.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It is often said that you can always find talent, but you can’t keep it. Corman never expected to. As he once told Ron Howard: “If you do a good job on this film, you’ll never have to work for me again.”Corman’s films define the crucial distinction between trash – quirky, low-budget films shot to make a few bucks and have some fun – and garbage: the mass-produced slop that comes out of Hollywood. Trashy films are ironic, sophomoric, nutty and exhilarating, with inspired names such as The Saga of the Viking Women and Their Voyage to the Waters of the Great Sea Serpent; garbage films serve as halfway houses for connected comics now furloughed from Saturday Night Live.Corman is about to release Death Race 2050 straight to DVD in the UK. It is a reworking of his 1975 cult classic Death Race 2000, about a homicidal, government-sponsored, transcontinental car race in which drivers get extra points for running over children. Death Race 2000 was made around the time the machiavellian Richard Nixon was going down for the count, and its villain is the president of the US. But the film is not about Nixon per se.“The original idea came from a short story by Ib Melchior,” says Corman. “I felt that the idea was good but that it had to be developed. So I added the political element. I started thinking about the violence in society and in sport, from the Roman gladiatorial games on, and the involvement of spectators. And that’s when the idea of killing the pedestrians came to me. I thought that really added to it.“But then I thought, you can’t take the killing of the pedestrians seriously. Well, if you’re a pedestrian you can, but if you’re watching the film, it has to be a comedy. So it developed from a short story about cars hitting other cars into a social and political commentary, an action comedy. The commentary is secondary; it is not a serious essay on violence in society. It is primarily an action comedy.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Corman has enjoyed the kind of classic Hollywood career people used to have before everyone in the credits had the same last name as the director. He was born in Detroit in 1926, studied industrial engineering at Stanford and after serving in the US Navy, read literature at Oxford. His first job in the film industry was looking through material that might be turned into movies. He didn’t like any of them.“I was a reader at 20th Century Fox, and I’d only been there a few months, and the story editor called me in and said: ‘Roger, you have never given a positive analysis of anything we’ve ever given you.’ And I said: ‘That’s because I’m the youngest guy here and you give me all the rotten stuff. Give me something that’s good and I’m perfectly willing to praise it’.”The editor gave him a story that became The Gunfighter, a film about an ageing gunslinger preparing for the last roundup. It starred a badly miscast Gregory Peck, sporting an even more miscast moustache, but it includes one truly great line: “A man ought to have more to show for his life than a gold watch.”Corman made suggestions about improving the script, got no credit for it, and went off to Oxford. His literary passions are reflected in the thrilling cycle of Edgar Allan Poe movies he made in the early 60s: House of Usher, The Masque of the Red Death, The Pit and the Pendulum. It is no coincidence that the French, who accord Poe a far loftier position in the literary pantheon than Americans, also worship Corman.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest After his short stint at Oxford, Corman went back to Hollywood and started making films such as Attack of the Crab Monsters. An obvious career path this was not. Several of his early movies star Jack Nicholson, who was still scuffling. Nicholson’s career did not achieve lift-off until he blew everyone else off the screen in Easy Rider. Then it was straight to the big time. Was Corman surprised by his success?“No, I felt Jack was brilliant from the time I met him. I enrolled in a method acting class, not to learn how to act, but to learn how to relate to actors. And that’s where I met Jack. The thing that surprised me is that it took so long for him to be recognised.”Corman doesn’t look or sound like someone famous for making movies about homicidal racing drivers and prematurely entombed aristocrats. Scholarly in demeanor, he does something Americans have not done for years: think before he answers a question.Does the whole living-legend thing ever gets on his nerves? “A little bit, but luckily it doesn’t get talked about that much.” He feels that the two things people seem to remember him for are the Poe movies and the counterculture films such as The Wild Angels and The Trip. The Wild Angels, for the record, marked the high-water point of Nancy Sinatra’s acting career.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Corman with Vincent Price on the set of The House of Usher, 1960. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoDeath Race 2050 was filmed while Donald Trump was running for the White House, and this interview conducted before the election results were in. The new movie is more overtly political, drawing attention to rampant social and economic inequality in the US. It includes characters such as Tammy the Terrorist and Frankenstein, and the villain is an evil businessman who is now chairman/president of the country. Coincidence?“The president does have a hair style which could be approaching Trump’s hair style,” says Corman impishly, “but I don’t want to get too heavy into that, because Trump will come and go and the film will remain. So it’s a mistake to try to hit something that specific, knowing that in a few years no one will know what that hairstyle is about.”“Unless he gets elected,” Corman is reminded.“Well, there is that outside possibility,” he says.•Roger Corman’s Death Race 2050 is released on Blu-ray and DVD on 20 March