The residents of Riviera Terrace and Sea Lawn Terrace in Dawlish are used to their homes shaking a little when a storm hits the Devon coast and don't take much notice when high waves throw spray up against their front windows."But this was different," said Neil Jones. "It was like being in a car wash. The waves were pounding against the terrace." When he went and took a look at the buckled mainline rail track, which runs a few metres in from the sea, he knew they were in trouble. "Then the police and rail people came running and told us to get out. We just upped and left."  Neil Jones and his son, Issac. Photograph: Steven MorrisJones, 42, was to be found recovering on higher ground at the Dawlish leisure centre with his 14-month-old son, Isaac. "We don't have any spare clothes, just what we stand up in and I don't know when we'll get back in. I'm not sure we'll ever get back there permanently if the sea has gone right under the road."Around 26 families – perhaps around 50 people – were evacuated from the seafront at Dawlish on Tuesday night. On Wednesday some of them were being cared for at the leisure centre, and Teignbridge district council housing staff were finding them temporary accommodation. Police declared a major incident and two people had to be rescued from a car. Emergency services asked sightseers to stay away.The storms will have a lasting impact on people, not just here but much further west in Devon and Cornwall. It is not yet known how long it will take to restore the breach in the mainline route into Devon and Cornwall.Exeter MP Ben Bradshaw is one of the south-west MPs who has campaigned strongly for improvement to transport infrastructure into the south-west.He tweeted: "Loss of railway at Dawlish if true terrible news for Devon & Cornwall huge economic impact major resilience upgrades vital now."John Clatworthy, Devon county councillor for Dawlish, said: "I have been here for 44 years and we haven't had storm damage like we have now. The storm last night was unbelievable."It is not just Dawlish that is affected, this railway line is to Plymouth, the naval bases, Cornwall – it is a lifeline. Something needs to be done and it is not just a five-minute job."The district council said the storm had also damaged manmade defences at Dawlish Warren – and the sand ridge, which provides a natural barrier.  Gilly Robinson and her daughter Freya, whose house is in 'a pretty awful state'. Photograph: Steven MorrisGilly Robinson and her daughter Freya were allowed back to their home on the seafront on Wednesday lunchtime – with a police escort – to retrieve some possessions. "It's in a pretty dreadful state," said Robinson, "The sea's got in and the carpets are sodden."They were off to stay with Robinson's mother a few miles up the coast. "The scary thing was when we suddenly heard a "bang, bang, bang" on the front door. I was dozing in a chair and thought I was dreaming. But usually it's a lovely place to live. The view, the sunrises and sunsets, are amazing."Tracey Griffin, who moved in to her house two years ago, was not so sanguine. "I hope the house floats off. I was asleep when the police came and banged on our door. We're quite high so I was amazed that we were affected."Griffin is used to flooding problems. Before moving to Devon, she lived in Tewkesbury. "Yes, we used to get flooded there too," said Griffin. "We must be suckers for punishment."