The warming of the Pacific Ocean caused by the El Niño climate event is “causing havoc” among marine animals off California’s coast, with unprecedented numbers of dead or starving seals being washed ashore.The San Francisco-based Marine Mammal Center said it has rescued 106 emaciated northern fur seals so far in 2015 – three times greater than the previous record year for rescues. The center said the seals are victim of the exceptionally strong El Niño, which has brought a surge of warm water species, such as red tuna crabs and hammerhead sharks, to California’s coast.Mothers of seal pups born on California’s channel islands, found west of Los Angeles, are finding it difficult to find their usual prey of sardines and anchovies, which are moving to cooler areas further north to escape sea temperatures that are 2-4C warmer than average.This means that pups, initially reliant on their mother for nutritious milk, are underweight and understrength when they have to find their own food.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A sea lion pup under normal weight in a picture taken in January 2015. Photograph: Noaa Fisheries West Coast“They can’t dive as deep, they can’t hold their breath as long,” said Dr Shawn Johnson, director of veterinary science at the Marine Mammal Center. “We have been rescuing four-month-old pups weighing 4-5kg, which is typically their birth weight. They should be double that. We are finding pups at record low weights. It’s really worrying for us.“The redistribution of fish is forcing the mothers to work harder to find food. This is all directly related to the warm water. It’s been the busiest year in our 40-year history and we are really preparing ourselves for the worst in 2016.”According to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Fisheries, there has been a huge increase in stranded sea lions, which are in the same family as fur seals, in 2015. According to Noaa, more than 4,200 sick sea lions have been washed up in California so far this year, comfortably the greatest number of strandings over the past decade. A further 100 Guadalupe fur seals and 150 northern fur seals have also been washed up, state-wide.Johnson said a strengthening El Niño signal in January and February could doom huge numbers of sea lion and fur seal pups.“We are seeing trends that are completely unusual for us and who knows what will happen when the El Niño really hits us,” he said. “We are concerned that there will be a new normal for wildlife here to adapt to. We will certainly need a lot of volunteers and help for the sea lion pups that come along in 2016.“We are seeing a lot of unusual species around here and it’s hard to say what the impact will be. We know the sharks are suppressing southern sea otters. There could be other negative impacts on the animals moving around.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A sea lion mother and pup at normal weight. Photograph: Noaa Fisheries West CoastThe El Niño conditions have exacerbated warming off the US west coast that has persisted for most of the past year. Scientists are attempting to work out what the potential long-term impact of these altered conditions will be.“We are entering a really interesting period where the observations we make don’t have a precedent,” said Dr Terry Gosliner, senior curator of invertebrate zoology at the California Academy of Sciences. “We are seeing species outside their traditional range by 100km to 200km for their entire life cycles. I’d seen a certain species of sea slug maybe a dozen times in 40 years in central California and now if I go down to the rock pools I’ll see 100 of them.“One of the concerns is that if these animals hang around for long enough, they will disrupt ecosystems that have a cast of characters that have been in equilibrium for a long time. It could take decades for these ecosystems to stabilize again.“Some species are very vulnerable. Seabirds may have to abandon their nesting colonies and try to find sites further north, for example. We are going to have to face what the new normal will be and it will take at least a decade to figure out what, exactly, it will entail.”