Honey G is your least favourite X Factor contestant this year, and rightly so. This might be because her schtick is a diarrhoea-thin amalgam of Vicky Pollard and the rapping granny from The Wedding Singer. It might be because, from certain angles, she looks exactly like David Cameron gone full witness protection. Or it might just be because she’s caused an unprecedented avalanche of overcooked thinkpieces about cultural appropriation in post-Brexit Britain.Whatever the reason, you’re right to be offended by Honey G. But is she the most offensive X Factor contestant ever? Let’s find out, by picking the most offensive act from every series and comparing them to our new common enemy.Series one – Steve Brookstein   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Not particularly offensive on the show itself, but vastly offensive in his public social media spirals. On the anniversary of 7/7, he tweeted about his number one album. He complained about women appearing on Top Gear. And in February, he tweeted “apparently you like small boys” to a user. Very possibly one of the top 10 worst humans. More or less offensive than Honey G: more.Series two – Journey South   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest X Factor’s second series was relatively tame, so by default its most offensive act was Journey South, and that’s purely because they looked like haunted twins who stood at the foot of your bed at night and giggled.More or less offensive than Honey G: less.Series three – The UnconventionalsFrom memory, The Unconventionals were a sort of proto-Glee act who – when they sang – sounded like The King’s Singers witnessing a road accident. That’s as bad as series three got.More or less offensive than Honey G: less.Series four – Emily Nakanda   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Emily was asked to leave X Factor midway through the 2007 series after videos emerged of her happy-slapping teenage girls and threatening to cut a boy’s eyes out.More or less offensive than Honey G: more.Series five – Eoghan QuiggAgain, a very inoffensive year. Eoghan Quigg gets the vote this time, mainly because I think he had weird hair.More or less offensive than Honey G: less.Series six – Jamie Archer   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Like an Alien: Resurrection-style prototype of Olly Murs, Jamie Archer was an insufferable pub singer determined to coast on the fumes of a charisma that simply didn’t exist. To make matters worse, he chose to call himself Jamie Afro, as if that was a normal and sensible way to conduct yourself.More or less offensive than Honey G: less.Series seven – Matt CardleMatt Cardle won what was arguably the biggest series of X Factor yet, thanks to his dirty cap and unassuming manner. But then, just as his debut solo album was released, he decided to promote it by outing himself as a 9/11 truther. “I think the way it was portrayed on TV and who was responsible and the way it happened was not the way it happened … what they’re saying is bullshit” he said. He was never heard of again.More or less offensive than Honey G: more.Series eight – Frankie CocozzaA parallel universe exists where Frankie Cocozza got to be a member of The Libertines. However, here he just got through to the X Factor finals, forgot to wash his hair, apparently boasted about having sex and using cocaine then left the show before he could be voted out.More or less offensive than Honey G: less.Series nine – Kye Sones   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest You don’t remember Kye Sones, and that’s OK. However, those with photographic memories might recall that he once performed a version of a song entitled Save the World while surrounded by a set that deliberately mimicked the twisted ruins of post-9/11 Ground Zero. In fairness it’s the set designer, not Sones, who deserves to be here. Nevertheless, this stands as the most breathtakingly tasteless moment to ever happen on X Factor.More or less offensive than Honey G: more.Series 10 – Luke FriendAgain, he had funny hair. It was awful hair, admittedly; hair that looked like someone had tried knitting with hosepipes made of old vomit. But still, it was just hair.More or less offensive than Honey G: less.Series 11 – Jake QuickendenThe most perfectly mediocre performer in a show built on mediocre performers, Quickenden’s worst crime was appearing on X Factor and I’m A Celebrity within weeks of each other. Not that big a crime with the benefit of hindsight really.More or less offensive than Honey G: less.Series 12 – Mason Noise   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Aside from his terrible name, which is so terrible that even thinking about it should send you into fits of uncontrollable sobbing, Mason Noise was most notable for his hideous attitude. He complained all the way through the auditions, to the point that Simon Cowell called him “an arsehole”, before grouching through a month of live shows. Normally this wouldn’t make him as offensive as Honey G, but he really did have a terrible name.More or less offensive than Honey G: more.