MondayThe Solid Life of Sugar Water continues in the National Theatre’s Temporary space, and you really shouldn’t miss it. At the Theatre Royal Bath, Right Now is an unsettling, fractured thriller from Catherine-Anne Toupin, in a smart translation by Chris Campbell, with superb performances. Theatre-Rites and 20 Stories High’s The Broke ’n’ Beat Collective, which explores the lives of young people, is at the Gulbenkian, Canterbury, tonight. What would a modern, female Jimmy Porter sound like? Does she do the ironing? Find out in Jane Wainwright’s Jinny, which is a companion piece to Derby theatre’s revival of Look Back in Anger. The Sprint festival continues at Camden People’s theatre, a platform for new work and unusual shows.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest TuesdayThe baby boomers have never had it so bad in the Wardrobe Ensemble’s terrific 1972: The Future of Sex at the Wardrobe theatre, Bristol. William Shakespeare’s daughter faces accusations in The Herbal Bed at Liverpool Playhouse. Gary Owen’s blistering Iphigenia in Splott is at the Crucible Studio, Sheffield, tonight and tomorrow and then at Live in Newcastle on Friday and Saturday. Samuel Beckett’s radio play All That Fall, directed by Max Stafford-Clark and played in total darkness, is at Bristol Old Vic. Birth & Death & Here & Now is a show in development at the Bike Shed, Exeter. Kaite O’Reilly’s new play Cosy, about ageing and death, is at the Weston Studio at the Wales Millennium Centre. International Women’s Day is being marked by the Wow festival at the Quarterhouse, Folkestone. Catch the legendary Liz Aggiss’s The English Channel tonight. Don headphones for Gatecrash at Cast, Doncaster, and be immersed in the world of teenage parties. Forced Entertainment are at Warwick Arts Centre with The Notebook, which is really good. Analogue’s Stowaway is at Alnwick Playhouse and touring in the north-east all week. The Hear Me Roar! festival of feminism in Lancaster includes Lois Weaver’s What Tammy Needs to Know about Getting Old and Having Sex.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest WednesdayVanishing Point’s The Destroyed Room is well worth your attention at the Traverse, Edinburgh. Eastern Angles’ Somewhere in England, about the influx of American GIs into East Anglia during the second world war, goes out on tour from the John Peel Centre, Stowmarket. Fracking is the subject of Siân Owen’s This Land, which Pentabus take on tour from their home base in Shropshire tonight. Luke Barnes has adapted Richard Milward’s tragicomic Teeside novel Ten Storey Love Song for Middle Child, who are at Hull Truck theatre. Bryony Kimmings’ Fake It ’Til You Make It is at Contact, Manchester, tonight and is joined by Kim Noble’s You’re Not Alone on Saturday as part of the ongoing Sick! Lab, four days of discussion and performance around identity and trauma.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ThursdayRichard Bean’s new comedy, The Nap, set in the world of snooker, opens appropriately enough at the Sheffield Crucible. April De Angelis’s Jumpy, a comedy of mothers and daughters, radicalism and loss, is revived at Theatr Clwyd, Mold. The Man With the Hammer is a bicycling tale from Phil Porter and is at the Drum, Plymouth. A CIA cover-up is at the heart of Kali Theatre’s The Dishonoured at Curve, Leicester.Friday and the weekendMorna Young’s Netting, a story of three widows, goes on tour from Woodend Barn, Banchory. Tinned Goods, set during the miner’s strike of 1984-5 and exploring female friendship and solidarity, is at Brindley theatre, Runcorn, and Salford Arts theatre. The Glass Menagerie is revived at Nottingham Playhouse, where you can also see Sh!t Theatre’s hugely enjoyable feminist cabaret, Women’s Hour. The Lowry hosts Theatre Ad Infinitum’s work in progress Bucket List, a tale of neo-colonialism and free will. On Saturday, Simon Godwin’s revival of Hamlet, with Elsinore relocated to Africa, starts previewing at the Royal Shakespeare theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon.