Dilemma 1: where do I begin? Advice: start by the doorThe advice of seasoned gardeners to newcomers is reliably the same: wait. Hold back and observe until a year has played out its seasons. What have you got? What grows well in the neighbourhood? Trees, hedges and wild flowers along the road are as instructive as the plants that recur in other people’s gardens. There will be a reason ferns pop up everywhere, say, or why nobody in your area is growing vines or figs.The feeling of the house and its surroundings will help to suggest a theme or atmosphere for the garden. Whether the topography is leaf-filled or densely built-up, it’s important to keep the main idea simple. A dark courtyard, for example, could become a garden of pale plants, while a walled, sunnier space would trap scent. Edit your plants towards this main idea.Keep new plants in pots for their first season, so you can study them at close quarters while you decide, slowly, what to do with them, and where. They will help you to keep the garden in mind. Beyond the back door, a young garden in its early stages can look bare. The empty spaces between new plants will seem vast, and following planting instructions, rather than squeezing in too much, will be a test of your resolve. Sowing annuals in these gaps will provide a quick temporary garden, while covering empty ground will help to suppress weeds, too.Dilemma 2: has decking been overdone? Advice: look at the local vernacular      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Decking is more effective when it enhances the scenery.’ Photograph: Claire TakacsDecking is essentially nautical, like the smooth deck of a boat navigating choppy waters. As an elevation, it works brilliantly in the right setting: near water, in the woods, over sand dunes. That is why boardwalks look and feel so good: they are a lesson in utility, providing an ancient crossing over the untamed and unknowable. Where there is less real need for decking, such as a back garden in Handsworth, it doesn’t work quite so well.As a hide-all or quick fix, decking is a bit obvious, too. It’s more effective when it enhances the scenery than when used just to cover something unfortunate. It is at home next to modern, wide buildings, the kind that look so perfect in the woods of America or Scandinavia. Decking that’s overshadowed by buildings in an urban environment will spend at least half the year breeding moss. However, it comes into its own on a roof, where air flow is better. When used to smooth over bumps and roofing felt in the open air, it is a smart option that has not been overdone.Dilemma 3: my plants prefer to grow in the path Advice: perhaps they are trying to tell you something      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Take note of where self-seeders spring up, and keep an open mind.’ Photograph: Jim PowellIt’s tempting to ignore garden truisms when trying to forge your own way. “Right plant for the right place” sounds dull; it’s more fun to do it your way and grow the wrong plant in the wrong place. After that fails, you become better equipped at finding the right spot for the right plant. Is it native to the American prairies? Does it grow luxuriantly around the Himalayas? You might think you have it all worked out, but then the plant doesn’t cooperate: the woodland-loving foxglove seeds itself in a dry wall, say, or migrates to the hottest part of the garden. When vigilant gardeners move them somewhere sensible, they curl up and die. The fact is, plants always grow where they want to.Take note of where self-seeders spring up, and keep an open mind. The quality of light, soil and moisture, for example, can change dramatically even between one side of a garden path and the other. If your paths are made of gravel, they’ll provide something very appealing to many plants: drainage and a layer of mulch. That pebbly blanket reduces evaporation and keeps roots cool. Seeds germinate beautifully in gravel, making a nonsense of carefully monitored, potting-shed propagation.Is gravel the ideal growing medium, though? Perhaps, but light is really the most crucial element. Every plant needs the right amount during every season, not just during its flowering time. Moisture may be less important than air flow; received wisdom is definitely less relevant than finding out for yourself.Dilemma 4: my garden is a car park Advice: it can be a garden as well      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Gravel has its detractors.’ Photograph: Jim PowellPeople tend not to notice when their garden has become a car park, because it’s so convenient to get the car off the street. This blinds otherwise sensible folk, and it’s then left to garden designers to rationalise the space. Gravel provides a permeable surface that mitigates the problem of rainwater run-off posed by most off-street parking. It’s also an ideal medium for undemanding self-seeders such as Verbena bonariensis and Stipa tenuissima.Gravel has its detractors, however, so if you’d rather not use it, paving slabs, provided they’re set reasonably apart and the gaps filled with well-draining matter, are worth looking into. It’s a question of balance. How much parking space do you need? Many older suburban houses were designed with a garage to one side and a planted area near the path to the door. The front garden was a scene-changer between street and home, a mark of leafy civilisation. Some people still want this.Dilemma 5: my garden has no soil, just pavingAdvice: pots give you the freedom to move your garden around      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Some plants are better suited to pots than others.’ Photograph: Kendra WilsonWhether or not you have access to soil in the garden itself, plants in pots add a different dimension. You can play around with height and scale; you can experiment with different textures; you can push all your pots into a solid block or spread them out. You can have small pots, of course; but make sure you have plenty of big ones, too, not least because moisture evaporates from them less quickly and they allow you to grow larger plants, including trees.Some plants are better suited to pots than others. The elegant outline of hosta, say, is enhanced when raised above ground level, and it is less likely to become ragged from the attention of slugs. It’s also easier to control the environment in a pot, and to keep it slug- and snail-free, whether with a sharp mulch, a copper band around the rim or the old-fashioned method of checking around the back. A pot of lilies (such as Lilium regale) by the door can be wheeled away when the flowers begin their long and lingering death.How to get your garden ready for spring Agapanthus will flower well only when the roots are crammed together. A fig tree will fruit better if hemmed in, and mint really ought to be retrained, if only to make sure it stays in one place. Frequently used kitchen herbs such as mint and parsley deserve a really spacious container (for instance, a galvanised steel laundry tub with holes drilled in for drainage). A pot garden supports plant communities that wouldn’t work in a flowerbed; it means the plants themselves are the first consideration, rather than the lie of the land.• Kendra Wilson’s book, My Garden Is A Car Park And Other Design Dilemmas, is published by Laurence King at £12.99. To order a copy for £11.04, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.