The first book I ever read by Terry Pratchett was Truckers. This was 1992 and ITV were airing a fantastic stop-motion animation of it at the time, produced by Cosgrove Hall. When I discovered the book in my local library the opportunity to find out what happened before any of my friends was too good to miss. So basically I read it for the exact same reason I would read George RR Martin’s A Song of Ice and Fire 20 years later. I had no way of knowing that this would be the book that would inspire me to become a writer of funny stories. The book itself made no mention of this. Not even a warning on the back.Truckers is the first book of the Nomes, part of the Bromeliad Trilogy along with Diggers and Wings. The Nomes are, as you might have guessed, small, human-like creatures. Gnome-like in fact. They live in a department store called Arnold Bros which is, as far as they know, the entire universe. So it comes as a bit of a shock to them when one day they discover that the store is to close. The Nomes have to come to terms with the fact that everything they thought they knew about the world might be wrong. And of course they have to move. That part is quite important.As much as I wanted to race through it to find out what happened next, I soon learned that I simply can’t read a Terry Pratchett novel quickly. To do so runs the risk of missing a joke and I simply can’t have that. Not on my watch.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Nicoll: For me as a nine year old being funny was everything and it still is. Photograph: Chris ScottIt wasn’t just the quality of the jokes. It was the quantity and variety of them. I would often spend ages rereading the same paragraphs, in awe of how anyone could construct sentences so densely packed with humour. Like the best satirists he could make the everyday seem absurd, but like Douglas Adams he could also just as easily turn the absurd into the perfectly logical. He’d treat old sayings and clichés on a par with the laws of physics, like in the eighth Discworld book Guards, Guards where saving the day rests entirely on the fact that million-to-one chances always happen when you need them. And of course the footnotes. Did I love the footnotes?*And what of his most beloved series – the Discworld? It’s struck me for some time that if you were to throw away the Discworld books, Pratchett’s output would still be incredible – The Johnny Maxwell stories, the Nomes, The Long Earth series with Stephen Baxter, Good Omens with Neil Gaiman and loads more. I mean obviously don’t actually throw away the Discworld books, they’re brilliant. I’m just saying.Sometimes when people talk about Terry Pratchett, they go to great lengths to explain that he wasn’t just a funny writer. “It’s not all jokes – he does proper stuff too. Clever stuff.” And they’re right of course, Pratchett was a brilliant, intelligent writer. The Bromeliad Trilogy are children’s books that deal with concepts as wide-ranging as religion, feminism, politics, love, existentialism and the importance of education. Even so, it annoys me when simply being funny isn’t enough.For me, as a nine year old, it was everything. It still is.*Yes.Tom Nicholl’s There’s a Dragon in my dinner, illustrated by Sarah Horne is available from the Guardian bookshop. Look out for There’s a Dragon in My Backpack and There’s a Dragon in My Toilet later this year!       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fans of Terry Pratchett will be happy to know that Penguin Random House are publishing a new collection of Terry Pratchett’s short stories for children: The Witch’s Vacuum Cleaner in summer 2016. We plan to share one of those stories with you on the site so look out for it! 