This is an awesome book about two amazing girls called Grace and Tippi. They are conjoined twins who have spent their whole lives being stared at and sometimes ridiculed, yet they are so happy to be alive.The book starts when the girls learn that they will have to go to school for the first time, as their family can no longer afford to pay for them to have home education. It is set in the US where there is no National Health Service. (I hope that in this country they would have had more financial support.)You will come to love Yasmeen and Jon who become their friends at school, despise the many ignorant unfeeling students who regard them merely as a freak show. The story is told by Grace who has her own head, heart, lungs and kidneys but half way along her intestines her body merges with her sister.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The girls eventually agree to become the subject of a documentary in order to help the family finances. Just think about how brave that would be, to have your whole life scrutinised by cameras in order to be gawped at by millions of people. They become close to Carol who directs the filming and she is surprised about how emotional she feels about the girls. Events reach crisis point when Tippi collapses and the family has to make an overwhelmingly life changing decisionThe story is told with beautiful language and is printed like a poem so that I was able to devour it in one day. I remember how I felt starting a new school when I was nine when I hardly knew anyone and wanted to merge into the background. The book made me think deeply about what it must be like to be so different that people are bound to notice you. I think it is important for everyone to understand about all disabilities because ignorance breeds fear and prejudice. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? I hope that a copy of this book will be in every school library. Grace and Tippi’s story will satisfy any curiosity you may have about conjoined twins but what will stay in your memory is the girls’ courage and their amazing, enduring love for each other.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!