Edward Barber’s photographs of peace protests in the 1980s are as nostalgic as hearing Love Will Tear Us Apart on your streaming service or watching The Young Ones on Netflix. The severe black-and-white tones speak of a time when the stakes were high – or seemed to be. The nuclear war – in which you should put a bag over your head and kiss your loved ones goodbye, as one man’s protest instructs – never came. But these are not images lost in time, either. Nuclear weapons are once again a political issue.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This protester at a 1981 CND rally in Hyde Park, London, has it in the bag. Photograph: Edward BarberProtest has survived, and Barber’s pictures celebrate the creativity with which British peace campaigners kept it alive. The radical historian and peace activist EP Thompson, who coined the phrase Protest and Survive, uncovered in his research the charivaris and skimmington rides with which the pre-industrial poor mocked their rulers. He showed how protest is a language of symbol and communal humour. In Barber’s pictures, people rejoice in that visual language.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A young protester joins a CND rally outside the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment at Aldermaston, 1983. Photograph: Edward BarberCND symbols – a missile enclosed in a circle, in the vivid logo designed in the 1950s – are carried as placards, worn as huge badges and hung on the wire of Greenham Common airbase. A crudely hand-painted placard says: “C. R. U. I. S. E spells World War 3.” It actually doesn’t, unless I am missing something – and it did not lead to war historically, either, as it turned out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A protester from Greenham Common after a protest at the Houses of Parliament, 1982. Photograph: Edward BarberBut the spontaneous art of outrage still carries a passionate beauty. Many people in these pictures go beyond the ready-made meaning of the CND peace sign to invent their own personalised imagery of protest. A Greenham protester photographed in front of the Houses of Parliament holds a stick that looks like a wand for white magic. She’s clearly on the mystical side of the movement. Her face is haunting in a lyrical study of the romance of idealism.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greenham Common protesters stage a ‘die-in’ outside the Stock Exchange, London, 1982. Photograph: Edward BarberThe London Stock Exchange has the brutalist look of a military headquarters or my old sixth-form college in a 1982 photograph of a “die-in” on the street outside. A man with a briefcase proudly marches past the bodies that are meant to make him think about the reality of nuclear war. Perhaps he has war stocks, for, as a slogan another protester has written across a copy of the Financial Times reveals, war stocks are up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A young protester at a Labour party anti-nuclear rally in Hyde Park, 1980. Photograph: Edward BarberIn 1982, I went to a CND meeting in Wales just to impress a girl. Protest was a language you had to speak back then, like the cool guy who is too stylish to hold a placard but lets his child tote it instead. We’re back in those times, some might say, but without the sheer mass force of protest in the 80s that was to culminate in the real battles of the miners’ strike. I ended up arguing for multilateralism at that meeting and blew my chances completely. These pictures show a past that has returned. Love will tear us apart again.Edward Barber Peace Signs is at IWM London, 26 May – 4 September 2016