Snapshot: Larking around at the tea hut in 1934That’s me on the left, my sister Joan on the right and our friend Phyllis in the middle. I can’t remember what we were laughing about, but Joan and I were always larking around. Dad worked on the railway and didn’t earn much, so Mum, who was business-minded, was always trying to find ways to earn extra money.This empty tea hut stood on the London to Southend road near Cranham, Essex, so my mum saw an opportunity and got permission for us to use the hut to sell ice-cream, tea and cold drinks to passing cyclists at the weekends. You would get to know the customers, the same old faces. The odd car would come along.I was only 14 in this picture. Mum and Dad kept having babies, year after year, 12 in all. Apart from being my sister, Joan was my best friend. We had to do everything together, looking after our baby brothers and sisters as they came along. Joan is still here, but lives in a home now and we don’t see very much of each other.War broke out on my 18th birthday. That was the last of the summers at the tea hut. By that time, I had a job at Woolworths in Brentwood. After work, my friend Dot and I used to go to the town hall dances and, beforehand, we used to go into the Green Lantern cafe. One day, two soldiers walked in, one very tall and good looking and another shorter. Obviously listening to our conversation (about new nylon stockings that had come in to store), the tall, good-looking soldier turned around and said, “Excuse me, ladies! Can you tell me where I can get those so I can buy some for my wife?” I turned to the other soldier and said cheekily, “I suppose you would like some for your wife, too?”And he said, “Yes, I would, if I had one! Will you marry me?”And that was Ivan. The next day, he walked into Woolworths, having bought some lights for my bike – he was worried about me cycling home in the dark. He walked straight over to my sister Joan’s counter and handed over the lights to her; with us looking so similar, he had confused Joan for me, until the penny dropped. The first of many laughs and many wonderful years married to Ivan until he died eight years ago.I turned 95 on 3 September and some of my remaining siblings travelled up for my birthday lunch. I don’t know where the years have gone. We had a wonderful childhood really. We didn’t have much, but we were so happy.Winnie WhitePlaylist: The song I was sick of, but grew to loveMoondance by Van Morrison“Well, it’s a marvellous night for a moondance / With the stars up above in your eyes / A fantabulous night to make romance / ’Neath the cover of October skies”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When I was little, we didn’t visit my grandparents a lot because of the two-hour drive it took to get there. However, after my grandfather died in 2006, when I was six years old, we started to drive up to visit my grandma a lot more – probably every other weekend.My father drove a black Saab 900 and it was his pride and joy, but I was never wild about it.The main reason for this was that it had no CD player. It had a cassette deck. And because we had no cassette player at home, we didn’t have many cassettes. To be specific, we had one: Moondance by Van Morrison. And every other weekend, my dad would play it on the drive up to my grandmother’s, and he would play it on the drive back, until I knew every single word.Needless to say, I started to get sick of the album.The car was stolen in 2010, with the cassette in the glovebox.However, recently I saw a CD of the album, and although I only had bad memories of listening to it, I just had to buy it.And when I got home and I listened to it, I absolutely loved it. Despite not having thought about it for six years, I still knew every word.Linus MartinWe love to eat: Mum’s Sheffield SpecialIngredients (serves one)100g pasta (conchiglie is best)1 tin tuna in sunflower oil, drainedHalf a tin of sweetcorn (optional)Salad cream or mayonnaise to tasteCook pasta, according to the packet instructions. Strain, return to a low heat and stir in the tuna and sweetcorn until warmed through. Add as much salad cream or mayo as you like, making sure it is evenly distributed.On my first night at university, in 1997, my three new flatmates and I went to a bar and made stilted conversation over vodka and Coke. The next night, though, we gathered in our shared kitchen, pooled our modest alcohol collections, and Ruth, who didn’t eat eggs because they were “chicken’s periods”, taught us the dance to Wannabe by the Spice Girls. After that, we met in the kitchen at least once a day. None of us were good cooks or had any money, so we looked to each other for easy, cheap recipes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Diane Shipley’s Sheffield SpecialMy only contribution was Sheffield Special, which someone – maybe Jill – named after my home town. Mum invented it after she and Dad split up when I was nine and she struggled to make ends meet. She went back to work full time, but was still left with a smaller grocery budget, a hatred of cooking and me, the world’s pickiest eater (the only vegetable I ate was sweetcorn).At university, we sometimes made a shared vat of it in Jenny’s huge pan, taking turns to stir.In my second year, I became ill, dropped out and moved back home. I’ve been here ever since, regaining my health in the tiniest of increments. I don’t cook Sheffield Special very often these days, but just after Christmas last year I made a large bowlful. Mum wrinkled her nose. “I can’t believe you still eat that,” she said.A month later, though, Jill posted on Facebook: “Can’t beat a big plateful of Sheffield Special, wouldn’t you agree?”I replied that my mum thought I was the only one who still made it. “She’s so wrong,” Ruth said.They both said they still love it and now feed it to their families. Long after my mum invented it out of desperation, long after it helped me to make friends, my favourite childhood recipe lives on.Diane Shipley We’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.