The film critic Margaret Pomeranz, novelist Charlotte Wood and festival director Wesley Enoch have joined a growing group of creatives and critics protesting against cuts to arts coverage at Fairfax newspapers, and losses to arts criticism in Australia more broadly.AAP bureau chief rebuked over Fairfax strike tweet | Amanda Meade In a video compilation uploaded to Facebook on Sunday by the #FairGoFairfax campaign, Pomeranz said: “The Fairfax masthead has been a bastion of arts coverage in this country, and the thought of abandoning that is just appalling.”The video was released after Fairfax announced plans to shed 125 jobs, prompting a week-long strike by its journalists. Guardian Australia understands that positions being abolished will include all dedicated arts, film and books writers at the Age and the Sydney Morning Herald, along with two deputy arts editor roles. Contributors will be paid a lower rate for reviews and features, expected to be less than half of what they currently receive. Debbie Cuthbertson (@debstarre)Our deputy Arts Editors in recent years have included @d3wic @bhakthi @han_francisco, huge advocates for the arts in Melbourne. What next? https://t.co/IUseuyvVFhMay 3, 2017Enoch, artistic director of Sydney festival – of which the Sydney Morning Herald is a media partner – said in the video: “Arts coverage is really important. How else are we going to get informed debate and discussion about some of the big cultural issues that happen in this country?” Charlotte Wood, who won the 2016 Stella prize for her book The Natural Way of Things, said: “A good literate coverage of visual arts, music, film, books is really crucial for any newspaper that considers itself a part of the national conversation.”Fairfax arts writers and editors have joined the strike, and been near-universal in their public condemnation of the cuts. Eleven former Fairfax arts editors – three decades’ worth – have signed an open letter to Fairfax CEO Greg Hywood, pleading for his company to save the arts coverage at both newspapers.Australia's culture of arts criticism is broken, and there's no clear way to fix it | Jane Howard “Arts journalism requires deep and detailed knowledge of our culture,” they wrote. “Without [arts coverage], creative voices are silenced and our culture is diminished ... Let not Fairfax be remembered as the news organisation that killed our culture.”Fairfax’s striking arts writers, including Elissa Blake, Paul Byrnes, Bernard Zuel, Jason Blake and John Shand, have continued publishing arts criticism through their own platforms. Meanwhile, this morning’s Sydney Morning Herald ran without an arts page.Elissa Blake (@elissablake)No arts page in the SMH. Has management given up or they simply can't put one together without arts staff and freelancers? #fairgofairfaxMay 7, 2017Elissa Blake (@elissablake)There is no AAP wire service equivalent for the arts. The experienced journalists are the only ones who can deliver. #fairgofairfaxMay 7, 2017Last week, Zuel penned a lengthy public Facebook post condemning the cuts: “There will be no specialist arts writers [at the Age or the Herald], no dedicated staff covering culture in all its forms,” he wrote. “This apparently can be done by the contributors who will struggle to make a living, or from wire copy or what we can lift from overseas. You think we have a lot of My Kitchen Rules and Bachelor et al now? Wait til that’s all that is run.”The arts pages of both the Age and the Sydney Morning Herald have been shrinking consistently over the past five years, but the cuts are emblematic of declining arts coverage in Australia more broadly. Last week Deborah Stone, the editor of dedicated online arts industry portal ArtsHub, was made redundant; and on Saturday, Daily Review – an Australian arts site which publishes news, criticism and opinion – posted a plea from editor Raymond Gill: “Daily Review faces the same challenges those long time players in arts journalism are facing … If you don’t support arts journalism, who will?”In a piece for Guardian Australia in October, critic Jane Howard wrote that amid the conservative government’s cuts to arts funding in Australia – most recently in the federal budget of 2015 – the culture of criticism in Australia had run out of steam. She wrote of the “collective exhaustion of unpaid labour”, the disappearance of platforms and theatre blogs, and the general decline in the cultural dialogue which is essential for a healthy arts ecosystem. “If people aren’t talking about reviews, people aren’t going to read those reviews, and it becomes harder for editors to commission more reviews,” she wrote. “It might be dangerous for me to say, but if I was a culture editor at an Australian newspaper today, I don’t know that I would be investing my limited budget in criticism.”Fairfax Media releases details of $2.5bn private equity bid to split business The same month, critic Alison Croggan wrote in the Monthly that “our mainstream critical culture has failed to convince us – the public, our governments, even artists themselves – of the value of culture in our daily lives. It has failed to articulate why Australian art might matter as a public good, to individuals and to a broader society. And now, as Australian culture faces its biggest crisis, that failure is tragically manifest.”In 2014, the Australian Bureau of Statistics revealed that, based on national accounts from 2008-09, creative and cultural activity contributed more than $86bn annually to GDP; and twice as many Australians attend a cultural event or facility than a sporting event each year. In March 2015, the Australia Council released the its landmark report, Arts Nation, which found that and that 85% of Australians believed the arts make for a richer and more meaningful life.The Australian Ballet and comedians Matt Okine, Zoe Coombs Marr and Nazeem Hussain have joined the outpouring of support for Fairfax arts journalists. “[Journalists] in the arts and entertainment play a vital role in supporting the arts and performers,” Hussain said. FairGoFairfax (@fairgofairfax)More support from the Aussie comedy scene: @nazeem_hussain sent this message of solidarity to #Fairfax journalists. #fairgofairfax @withMEAA pic.twitter.com/CD2F5XFFrKMay 7, 2017Other industry professionals, including Museum of Contemporary Art director Elizabeth Ann Macgregor and Hayes Theatre director Richard Carroll, have tweeted in support of saving arts journalism at Fairfax and beyond:Richard Carroll (@Richard_Carroll)We at @hayestheatre will never forget the support from arts writers when we opened. It meant we could survive and grow. #savefairfaxartsMay 5, 2017Esther Anatolitis (@_esther)Our private response to art makes us human. Our public response makes our culture. My thoughts on #fairgofairfax: https://t.co/jXSCYaC4ZBMay 6, 2017Rebecca HarkinsCross (@rharcross)Fairfax provides arts coverage that's crucial to the cultural ecology & is one of the only majors to cover independent arts. #fairgofairfaxMay 6, 2017John K (@JohnKachoyan)My first directing gig reviewed and published in the @smh by paid professional - I still have it taped above my desk #savefairfaxartsMay 5, 2017Louise Schwartzkoff (@LouSchwartzkoff)Heartfelt thanks to Liz Ann Macgregor, director of @MCA_Australia, for her message of support for Fairfax's arts coverage. #fairgofairfax pic.twitter.com/cFni0N28lJMay 6, 2017Jacqui Dark (@jacquidark)Taryn Fiebig and I support arts journalists at @SydneyHerald. These folk are passionate and brilliant and should be cherished! @elissablake pic.twitter.com/IVng96gNpqMay 7, 2017