Oh dear me. I am dizzy and annoyed and I want those three hours of my life back. Did we really have to go through all that to get to the resolution we had known was coming from the first moment? And not a sniff of the best character in the entire last episode. Where, for the love of Lovejoy, was the pug? “Frank and Mary’s happiness hangs by a thread, as Louis Scatcherd prepares to seize the Greshamsbury estate,” read the blurb for this last outing. And by golly did we have a lot of pointless and easily guessed plot to get through. Plinky-plonky waltz music topped and tailed this series finale as an orchestra went wild 99% of the time, diluting much of the dialogue. At every turn, the emotional response was dictated by the score, signalling what we should be feeling when. And all because there was no room for the actors to control that response themselves – which is wrong, all wrong. I hate to say anything against the actors who must do battle with Uncle Julian’s scripts. But, really. They all looked so bored here.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Their happiness hangs by a thread: Frank (Harry Richardson) and Mary Thorne (Stefanie Martini). Photograph: ITV At least we had Louis’ shenanigans to distract us. And, quelle surprise! Louis hasn’t stopped drinking. Indeed, now he has a snifter surgically attached to his hand, which he carries from household to household. I liked it when Louis ate the bread. But apart from that, these scenes were excruciating. Partly because they were meant to be so, but partly because there was nothing surprising or delightful or genuinely menacing. It was all just Louis being a boor. Where was the sense of the family’s future at stake?But what’s this? Oh no! Louis’ birthday is approaching and he is getting litigious! “Ah, my boy, you arrive at a melancholy hour!” “He’s in love with my niece!” “And now the chance to render his rival penniless and landless is compelling!” It was the battle of the exclamation marks. Honestly, why is everyone so far behind? I can’t believe that Doctor Thorne wouldn’t have worked all this out a lot sooner. On and on it went, until Louis had the inevitable drunken misadventure we had been waiting for. “His lung was punctured in the fall. His struggle will soon be over.” In real life, of course, his own mother would have pushed him into the fireplace ages ago. At least the ketchup-fest was fairly entertaining. And the sudden death. And what’s this? Mary is actually the heir to the fortune! And they still have her baby trousseau! Huzzah! (Lady Scatcherd’s blanket has lasted well, I must say. Top marks for knitting. Zero marks for producing decent offspring.)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Feel the ice: Lady Arabella Gresham (Rebecca Front) and Francis Greasham (Richard McCabe). Photograph: ITV Cue more dramatic music! Watch out, Frank! Don’t commit suicide until you’ve found out the good news! (Now that would have been a good story. Apologies to Shakespeare.) “We’ll take a new look at things tomorrow.” What? Are you mad, Doctor Thorne? Tell her now that she’s rich so she can go and tell Frank, for goodness sake. “Her fortune is approaching half a million pounds!” Yay! Cue soaring violins and a dissolve into the wedding breakfast. “Here’s a happy ending for you. Any number of happy endings.” I thought I needed a lie-down (by which I mean “full medical sedation”) after Downton. But after this I need some kind of horse tranquiliser. Or a memory drug to forget it ever happened.Corset cornerSome quality simpering went on here. But there was little much else for the ladies to do. And there are no flowers left now in the south of England, as they have all been picked for use in this programme. Augusta’s daffodils were fresher than ever. The secret smiles between she and Mr Gazeby were most excellent. As was this line: “We shall have to talk in a dumb show if you keep this up.” Brilliant, blink-centric response from Alexandrina to Augusta’s proposal: “Wha-a-a-aaaa-aat?” I thought there was more to Alexandrina’s disdain than met the eye. Meanwhile the Countess de Courcy won the bonnet prize with flowers on the outside and the inside. And Miss Dunstable was back, flirting with our eponymous hero as she always should have been. Just what the doctor ordered.The Rebecca Front fan clubThe queen of the disapproving countenance rides again. “How do you do?” “Tolerably well, thank you.” Feel the ice behind the response to Louis’ request to guess how much his father bought his house for! “I never guess.” Witness the sickness on the face as she held back the bile: “You know how fond we are of you … Only you can give him back what his life might have been. By withdrawing from the field.”  All just an appetiser for the main course, though: the epitome of smugness at the news that Mary had thrown Frank over. And then the screaming and the smashing of glass. But why didn’t we get to see it? Why put the best emotional response in the whole thing behind closed doors? So unfair. I do wish we could have seen some rending of garments and rolling around in the dust. But it was all so understated and rushed in the end. The fan club demands a director’s cut, focused entirely on Lady Arabella’s reactions.Pug watchWhere was the pug? Augusta was forced to play the role of the pug here, as Lady Arabella’s canine companion was mysteriously absent. Augusta turned pug very nicely, especially in the final scene, where Alexandrina had been awarded Best in Show. More pug consistency next time, ITV. What self-respecting costume drama promises primetime puggery, then pulls it away at the last moment? Disgraceful.