Caitlyn Jenner is joining the cast of the acclaimed Amazon streaming series Transparent, in what the show’s creator and executive producer Jill Soloway has called “a dream come true”.‘A force of nature’: Ruby Rose presented with major Glaad award by Taylor Swift Soloway revealed the news in an interview on Saturday at the Glaad (Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation) media awards. She would not reveal any details about Jenner’s character, but said they will begin filming her scenes next week, for the series’ upcoming third season.Transparent follows transgender character Maura Pfefferman (Jeffrey Tambor) as she comes out as a woman to friends and family. In 2015 the show won a Golden Globe award for best television comedy, while Tambor won both Golden Globe and Emmy awards for best actor in a television comedy series.Soloway said it was easy to get Jenner on board. “We are all part of the same community. A lot of the trans women who work on our show are also in her show, I Am Cait,” Soloway said. “Lots of crossover. Lots of friends.”At the Glaad media awards, the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender advocacy group honours those in the media and entertainment industries for accurate portrayals of LGBT characters and issues. I Am Cait and Transparent both won in their categories. Since Jenner announced her transition last year, she has become one of the transgender community’s most visible members. She recently offered to become America’s “trans ambassador” if Republican presidency hopeful Ted Cruz wins, causing consternation among some transgender advocates.Caitlyn Jenner offers to be Ted Cruz's 'trans ambassador' if he wins presidency Uncle Zac (@unclezacbrewer)Caitlyn Jenner can't be a Trans ambassador to anyone...as she doesn't represent the Trans community very well at all.March 4, 2016Co-chair of the Young Women’s Advisory Council for the city of New York, Cherno Biko told the Guardian, “We simply cannot afford to have Caitlyn Jenner supporting people who hate us.“Her being a Republican. Her not supporting marriage equality. Being negative about people needing income support. You can’t do all of that and then claim to be an ambassador for a community that you can’t represent.”