House of Cards has never felt like the real presidency: Frank Underwood is evil incarnate, bumping off junior Congressmen and pushing journalists in front of trains. But now that, in real life, we’re in the throes of such a bizarre presidential race, his machinations are starting to look almost viable. There are several parallels between Underwood’s re-election campaign and what is currently playing out between Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders.Season four of the Netflix political soap, which starts on Friday, finds Underwood angling for the Democratic nomination for president. He’s running against Heather Dunbar, a determined woman who has never held elected office. She is independently wealthy and funding her own campaign with her family’s money. Essentially, she is Trump and Clinton combined. (Warning: light spoilers ahead.) But the biggest similarity between House of Cards and real life is a billboard linking Underwood to the Ku Klux Klan, which has the potential to derail his campaign. There is no way the show’s writers could have imagined that Trump would have his own problems with the KKK in his election bid.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   People wait in line to visit the fictional Oval Office of Frank Underwood outside the Republican Presidential Debate in Greenville, South Carolina. Photograph: Erik S Lesser/EPAClaire Underwood, who is estranged from Frank as the season begins, is working on her own political ambitions, starting with a run for Congress. It is reminiscent of the path Hillary Clinton took decades ago after Bill’s presidency came to a close. Even Claire’s failed attempt to become a UN delegate mirrors Hillary’s failure to overhaul the healthcare system while her husband was in office. Barack Obama has said that none of the Republican candidates could handle Putin. And the show features a bellicose Russian president, who has taken to “disappearing” wealthy enemies, and who hovers over the turbulent foreign policy of Underwood’s administration – he is asked constantly on the campaign trail how he plans to deal with such a man.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Watch the trailer for House of Cards season 4The show gets many of the particulars spot on, but there is still plenty it gets wrong. In the fictional US, Underwood’s biggest campaign problems are that unemployment is still running rampant and that gas prices are hovering close to $6 a gallon. Neither of those are currently real-world issues, with the US unemployment rate low and fuel prices just as low. Neve Campbell: ‘Everything about US politics makes me proud to be Canadian’ But it’s immaterial whether the minutiae match up, because there is something fundamental about this season that we’re seeing play out in the horse race to Pennsylvania Avenue. Previously, Frank and Claire collaborated to crush their weaker enemies. But now, Frank and Claire are taking each other on – and both are playing for keeps. Season four is all about fighting dirty. Yes, Frank has to deal with the KKK connection, but Claire is the one that leaked it as payback for him tanking her political aspirations. It’s also about worthy opponents, as Underwood – representing the establishment – has to fend off attacks from Washington upstarts and outsiders. The same is true for Hillary Clinton, who seemed as if she would stroll into a Democratic nomination until Bernie Sanders picked up steam. A year ago it was impossible that she would meet her match, until she did – and he was an outsider, a gun-hating socialist atheist Jew. It’s the same on the Republican side, where Trump was ridiculed as an inexperienced outsider until people seemed to start liking that about him. He’s proven a match for everything his party could throw at him: not only is he a worthy opponent but, much like Claire, he is an underestimated one.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crushing the enemy ... Frank Underwood. Photograph: David Giesbrecht/NetflixThat is the brilliance of this season of House of Cards. While it contains plot points that are divorced from reality, real life is baked into the drama. Something drastic happens in the fourth episode, and it is so ludicrous that it strains credulity. But is it any more outlandish than a former tabloid fixture and reality TV host, whose idea of foreign policy is banning Muslims and building a wall along the Mexican border, taking the White House? 