1. PauseBy the time Jay Dee – whose real name was James Yancey – became J Dilla, he had made a reputation for himself by producing albums for Common, the Pharcyde and A Tribe Called Quest, among others. With his debut solo album Welcome 2 Detroit, he switched up his style, broadening his range to combine world music, live instrumentation and German electronica with grimy hip hop, despite his original intention to make a breakbeat record. Welcome 2 Detroit is a primer on Dilla’s home city, exemplified by the lead single, Pause. If you subtract his grunt and ad-lib at the start, Dilla’s presence is mainly revealed in the composition and production, allowing underground talents Frank-N-Dank to take centre stage. Springing from a stutter-step rhythm and Dilla’s soupy beats, Frank runs through each letter of their name while Dank spits braggadocio-laden verses as a marker for their brand. Always running ahead of the pack, Pause is a proto-snap, strip-club jam that predicts the subgenre’s prevalence in the years that followed.2. Fuck the PoliceThe cult of J Dilla Dilla was instructed to write Fuck the Police – which was released under the Jay Dee name – by his mother, as a protest against the racial profiling and harassment he received daily on Detroit’s east side. Because it was born from personal experience, Dilla grabbed the mic himself for his most lyrically charged piece, extending a caveat for sensitive listeners: “Any offended people, suck my balls.” He wasn’t intimidated by NWA’s song of the same name, nor did he defer to his experience as a junior police cadet when he was a teenager. Sampling René Costy & His Orchestra’s Scrabble, Dilla transforms a violin into a flute that beckons in a call-and-response around a kicking drum break, and serves a writ for corruption in the police department. The track was so incendiary that MCA refused to release it, so it was put out instead on the indie hip-hop label Up Above Records.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 3. BBE (Big Booty Express)In truth, BBE (Big Booty Express) isn’t Dilla’s most exciting song, but it is indicative of the experimentation he would pursue later. A silly title could not subdue the man’s extraordinary acumen, and his intention for BBE was to fuse the futurism of Kraftwerk’s Trans-Europe Express with the sci-fi horror of The Terminator. It opens with a wicked laugh before bringing in oscillators, a Roland 909 drum machine, fidgety synthesisers and a simple three-word mantra. Dilla romanticises and transports you to his ideal world; where humans and machines live harmoniously, a vision presented by Detroit techno legends Derrick May and Juan Atkins two decades earlier.4. Nothing Like This J Dilla's The Diary: the posthumous record he wanted you to hear Dilla’s goal for the Ruff Draft EP in 2003 was to make some hard “real live shit” for DJs, with an aesthetic to “sound like it’s straight from the motherfuckin’ cassette”. He threaded a lo-fi hiss throughout 10 songs that largely repeated the sampling approach he had used before Welcome 2 Detroit. Nothing Like This is an anomaly in his discography. It’s a hip-hop version of Tomorrow Never Knows; Dilla under the influence and experimenting as freely as Lennon and McCartney did in 1966. Dilla toys with and skewers time and space, sounding lovelorn and distant while enclosed in his case of psychedelic, reverb-heavy guitar and drums. It was a pure sound-event, and Dilla never created anything like it again.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 5. The HeistMadlib and Dilla’s collaborative album Champion Sound is the realisation of the hip-hop purists’ wildest fantasies. After Dilla had heard Madlib freestyling over Stereolab, the two convened for an album with the simple idea that they would each provide beats for the other’s rhymes. The result showcased both men’s versatility on each side of the handles, a thrilling blend of the off-kilter, underground sounds of LA and Detroit. The Heist was one of the grubbiest beats Dilla made for his spiritual counterpart, subtly shifting his tone and integrating a style inspired by his peer’s solo work. Madlib moved Dilla into creating a soundscape of boom-bap percussion and woozy synth lines that bump, grind and roll.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 6. WorkinonitDilla’s 2006 album Donuts is best appreciated by rejecting the hip-hop that came before. Donuts is not music per se; few of its tracks are fully formed in the conventional sense. Workinonit jolts the album into life with a deep, resonant charge lead by Dilla’s sonic signature, a siren taken from Mantronix’s King of the Beats. It accelerates and shifts like a car in a drag race, tearing up tarmac, bursts of distorted guitar seeming to provide obstacles in its path. It offered a summation of the reality of Dilla’s situation at the time: though he was very ill – he died of a rare blood disease, aged 32, three days after the release of Donuts – he remained positive and resolute, producing a parting gift that sustained his reputation. 7. LightworksLightworks is the outcome of Dilla exploring the interest in analogue electronica that he first signalled with BBE. It is both spacey and effervescent; the beats, bleeps, and bloops bubble continuously, but it is notable for reappearances. The return of the siren is a mark of the album’s uniformity (it features on no less than nine of the album’s tracks), but revived with an instruction: “Listen up!” Voices are resurrected through Dilla’s musique concrète technique, mixing two 1950s advertising songs by Raymond Scott as if they were a commercial chorus.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 8. Geek DownGeek Down is frightening. There’s something angry and almost violent about it. It starts with a rough squall, tearing open the sky with a loop of drum breaks (the Jimi Entley Sound’s Charlie’s Theme) and wailing guitars (ESG’s UFO) that rub together to create thunder. Just 79 seconds long, Geek Down was Dilla denying his imminent death. It’s a moment of a man envisioning his nightmares, fears and anxieties and translating them on to wax.9. Last Donut of the NightLast Donut of the Night was the penultimate song on Donuts, but the album’s emotional centrepiece. Dilla allows others to vocalise the dark cloud hanging over him, settling his affairs by proxy. Over melancholy strings and a guitar lifted from the Moments’ soul ballad To You With Love, Dilla loops the simple, four-word heartbreaking refrain: “I give to you.” The singer is entreating his lover with a ring, but Dilla is offering a gift he sees as much more valuable: his life. It’s almost time, and this is his swansong. With no more words to say, the announcer Gene Chandler reintroduces Dilla to the audience in the encore as a “young man [who] went out and made a name for himself”. Didn’t he just.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 10. Love (Feat. Pharoahe Monch)Arriving six months after Donuts, The Shining was Dilla’s first posthumous release; it was completed by Karriem Riggins, who was appointed by Dilla shortly before his death. The record sees Dilla turning full circle, reviving the work he produced for others as a member of the Soulquarians collective before he went solo. The sample is taken from the Impressions’ We Must Be in Love and plays as feelgood, joyous neo-soul, tinged with nostalgia. Pharoahe Monch opens with lyrical gymnastics, twisting the meaning of soul, pining for a time when the making of music was dictated not by profit but purely by love. His appearance isn’t wasted; he comes out the other end revitalised by the fond memories of the past and his friend, sounding glorious next to strings, horns, and Curtis Mayfield’s tender, imploring vocals. It’s a hell of tribute, and a fitting celebration of James Yancey.