A trip to a budget supermarket wouldn’t be most people’s idea of a good time but when food is the only thing you are buying it becomes a weekly highlight.I’ve never been much of a foodie or culinary whiz. Trips to the supermarket usually saw me wandering the aisles and picking up random ingredients, or worse, popping out for milk and ending up with £20 worth of shopping I hadn’t really thought through.Why I'm buying nothing for a year – no clothes, no holidays, no coffee ... But since I embarked on my attempt to opt out of spending for a year, the weekly shop has been planned like a military operation and it takes up a lot more time than it used to. Saturdays now involve meal planning, list making, shopping and then batch cooking to ensure there are lunches available for the working week.These aren’t tasks I particularly enjoy but the chance to spend some (any) money makes them more bearable. I wasn’t sure if I’d miss shopping but I must do if I’m getting so much pleasure from grocery shopping. Or maybe I am enjoying it because the shopping that I’m doing is more mindful and I’m not throwing items into my basket without thinking.Paying for the food is a far more conscious act. Whereas before I’d have handed over my card, I now pay for everything in cash and jot down how much I spend in each shop. The switch to cash makes the money feel more real – it’s something tangible and I don’t want to hand more of it over than strictly necessary. I’m contemplating making my own wine, so let me know what I need to improvise, forage for or borrow to do so For the bulk of my shopping, Lidl has become my go-to supermarket and I have been making use of our local Chinese and Turkish supermarkets, which are much better value than the big names. This wasn’t the case before, where I’d lazily head to the nearest Tesco Metro or Sainsbury’s Local to buy food because I couldn’t be bothered to lug shopping back on the bus (we don’t have a car). I now avoid these mini supermarkets.When I asked you all to help me come up with a realistic grocery budget, most people suggested between £30 and £50 a week for three meals a day, plus toiletries and cleaning products for the house. I’ve gone with £30 a week and in the spirit of solidarity, my husband has agreed to join in with the food spend part of the challenge, meaning we have £60 a week between us.He’s not joining in the rest of the challenge and he definitely won’t be subbing me meals out, beers or trips to the cinema as it’s not a year of scrounging – even from my nearest and dearest.This budget has been more than enough and the whole amount has only been spent once, in the run-up to Christmas – with an overspend of 31p. We spent £37.35 in the first week, £43.98 in the second, then £46.70, £60.31 on the Saturday before Christmas. Since then we’ve been very much under budget.Keeping the food cost under £60 is easily doable with planning, and while we have that amount to spend, in reality I’m trying to keep the spend to under £45 a week for both of us. We’ve cut out non-essentials and didn’t even make use of the post-Christmas discounts on sweets and treats because I don’t want to waste the budget.However, I have to admit it’s monotonous. Lunch is the same thing every day thanks to the batch cooking – usually a vegetarian bolognese, curry or chilli – but it means the budget stretches and I get enough to eat in the day to fuel my bike rides.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michelle McGaghBuying food isn’t the only way to fill your belly though and I’ve got my hands on some free food via a food-sharing app called Olio. It’s free to download and links up people who have food to give away – maybe from a glut at an allotment or salad that won’t get eaten – and those who want the food.I’ve already picked up some vegetable stock and peanut butter from a lady in my area. You never know what’s going to be available and sometimes cafes and cake shops list items, meaning I could get my hands on some free treats in future. I plan to trawl the cupboards to see if I can give anything back, although at the moment food shopping is so meticulously planned there is little going spare.I like the idea of less food going to waste and by planning my meals so thoroughly I realise now just how much food I used to throw away – mainly vegetables that I’d leave languishing in the fridge.  The main problem is that I’m not that confident in the kitchen and with a limited budget I’m nervous about ruining food or cooking something inedible, so I definitely need some culinary inspiration and recipes that are idiot-proof, cheap, filling and freeze well.Recipes for low-cost, easy, energy-filled snacks that I could take on a bike ride would also be welcome and I am wondering whether it’s possible to make your own electrolyte drinks for longer rides. Any thoughts?One thing that is sorely missed from my shopping list is booze and I’m contemplating making my own wine. I’m no expert and frankly I’d be happy with something that is even half palatable. It would also mean I’m able to contribute a little something when invited round to dinner by friends, who I’m concerned will eventually get frustrated with me turning up empty-handed to their homes. I might be on a spending ban but it doesn’t mean I want to miss out on fun, so let me know what I need to improvise, forage for or borrow to make my own wine.@mmcgagh