Norman Baker, the LibDem minister responsible for the UK's transport fuels' policy has sent a letter to the Guardian, after my story exposing the secret help given by the UK government to the Canadian government to block European Union penalties on fuels from tar sands. I don't say this lightly, but it's laughable, as I'll show below.Another development is that Zac Goldsmith, the Conservative MP and member of the environment audit select committee, has called the UK's position a "disgrace", and promised to take the matter up with his colleagues. At issue is whether the EU should designate fuels from tar sands as causing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels. This would make EU suppliers, who have to reduce the emissions from their fuels by 10% by 2020, very reluctant to include it in their fuel mix. It would also set an unwelcome precedent for Canada by officially labelling fuel from tar sands as dirtier. The crux of Baker's letter is this:To be clear, we are not delaying action in any way, but are seeking an effective solution to address the carbon emissions from all highly polluting crudes, not simply those from one particular country.The suggestion that the EU proposals target any particular country is plain wrong. No countries are named. You can see for yourself on page 16 of the key document, where the proposed levels of greenhouse gas are set out.Baker says "we are not delaying action in any way". Yet a cable from foreign secretary William Hague, released after a freedom of information request, states: "We do not underestimate the difficulties in establishing a workable solution, and the likelihood that a delay would be needed before any such system, could be established."This "solution", considered by the UK, was to put crude oil into three bands of emissions: high, medium and low. Another Foreign office document reads: "Devising a workable system, given, in particular, the lack of data from many countries and the complexity of the crude processing system, will be extremely challenging, we acknowledge ... May take some time." With supreme irony, this complexity led Canada to reject the UK proposal.Baker says the EU rules must deal with all crude oils, rather than just tar sands. But the government privately admitted that, as well as being complex and time-consuming, the data does not yet exist in many cases. So rather than deal with the fuels from oil sands, shown by the EU's own study to be clearly more polluting than regular crude, the UK wants to make the perfect the enemy of the good. Baker also writes that he meets green campaign groups as well as oil companies. The problem there is he refuses to release any records of the oil company meetings, beyond two short and heavily redacted presentations. But the most extraordinary part of Baker's reponse comes in the last paragraph, where he blames the environmentalists for the controversy :I have challenged green NGOs to come up with a solution so we can address the carbon problems of all crude sources as soon as possible. So far I have been met with silence.John Sauven at Greenpeace told me: "Together with the majority of European governments, we're enthusiastic supporters of the [existing] European plan to prevent the most polluting fuel from entering our filling stations. So Baker is completely wrong to say we haven't put forward a solution to the problem of tar sands."So to sum up, Baker wrongly claims the EU proposal single out nations, says he is not delaying action while the government admits in private its proposal would lead to delay, would rather stick with an unworkable plan than deal with a known problem and blames green groups for not solving the problem for him.It's simply not good enough from a government minister. One would be forgiven for thinking that Baker, who has his spent his "entire political life championing the environment and pressing for action on climate change", doesn't actually believe what he is having to say.