A few months ago in a regional Australian town, I wandered into the Country Women’s Association centre and there I came across a ghost-like figure.It was an old woman at the front desk. Skin powdered, hands all crepey, the scent of rosewater, purple tinted hair set like a cockatoos crest, it was all I could do to stop from reaching out and whispering, “I ... I thought you were extinct!”Coachella day one: Kanye and Seal offer unlikely cameos in California sandstorm It was that old woman look – how our grannies looked – that you don’t see anymore, except, perversely, on very young women. It’s purple hair, shin length tea dresses, cardigans, cat’s eyeglasses.Where did all the grannies go?Now grannies look like art gallery curators: linen shift dresses, chunky wooden beads, strong-framed glasses, sandals, cropped silver hair, tasteful silver bangles.My granny used to go to mass every day, these new grannies go to Pilates. Instead of socialising at funerals, they gather at writers’ festivals.Meanwhile, men in their 40s and 50s dress like toddlers. Band T-shirts, long shorts, boat shoes or Converse, bits of string around the wrists or rubber bands of the Live Strong variety, and baseball caps. It’s young men who dress old: a trilby or panama hat, skinny legs jammed into narrow black trousers from the 1960s, a vintage Burberry trench, the gabardine suit they got from the op shop, the tie from someone else’s school, or for the more daring youngsters – a cravat.Teenagers are listening to Nirvana and Pearl Jam and their parents are listening to Drake.Families take their holidays at music festivals. One must be careful at when dancing – not to avoid dirty needles or broken glass but a toddler, at her parent’s feet, adorable in mini noise-cancelling headphones.This isn’t new – the generation gap hasn’t existed for years now and it’s passed without being mourned. Everything from how we dress, to the music we listen to, to how we date, and relate to people of different ages has shifted. Just as more fluid sexuality has meant that many women I know are now complaining of a broken gaydar (“I mean he’s well dressed and I met him while dancing at a gay bar, then I find out he’s got a girlfriend”) – it can now be hard to tell what generation people are in (the only give away: does this person own property?).Take music festivals.This week the New York Post ran a story that fascinated and unsettled me about the “30-something moms” spending thousands on plastic surgery to get “Coachella-ready.”Coachella – a music festival in the Californian desert – is a favourite haunt of the young and beautiful who selfie while wearing cutoff denim shorts, braids and Indian headdresses.But due to “nostalgia acts” like Guns N’ Roses headlining this year, an older crowd is descending on the desert. And they want to fit in.The Post interviewed a “33-year-old divorced mother of two (who) blew $20,000 in preparation. Her clothing alone for the weekend – a ‘sick’ outfit featuring a vintage Guns N’ Roses T-shirt, YSL army jacket, denim cutoffs, corset, thigh-high leather boots – was $8,000. She spent thousands more on Botox, lip injections, boxing classes and a personal trainer who helped her drop 10 pounds in advance of the three-day-long concert in the California desert. In the month leading up to it, she even gave up alcohol and went vegan to get in shape for the debauchery to come.” Going vegan and getting the fat sucked off your thighs in preparation for a music festival just sounds confused. There was so much strangeness to unpack in this story, least of all the fact that anyone (other than Kate Moss) actually looks polished at a music festival. People go to music festivals to listen to music, dance, get off their faces and get dirty. You do not wear your “good” clothes to festivals. By day three everyone stinks, their hair is crusty with spew and dry shampoo and shoes look like they’ve been dragged through a sewer.Show me a pristine person at the end of a music festival and I’ll you someone who did not have a good time.Going vegan and getting the fat sucked off your thighs in preparation for a music festival just sounds confused. And yet: “about two months ago, when Guns N’ Roses mentioned they would [play], more women in their 40s started coming in,” says Dr. Norman Rowe, an Upper East Side plastic surgeon whose main focus is fat-reduction procedures. “They’re reliving their teen years.”Of course, you should be able to wear whatever you damn well please. If you are 38 and want to wear high waisted denim shorts that stop just above your butt cheek – be my guest.But there is a sense – in having plastic surgery to go to a music festival – A MUSIC FESTIVAL! – of trying somehow to pass yourself off as a member of a different, younger generation.Of course, “passing yourself off” as younger is easier for men. You just chuck on some different clothes – something loose and sloppy, and probably quite comfy. That women feel they have to undergo the surgeon’s knife in order to wear the sort of tight, revealing clothes that 20-somethings favour – indicates that if the generation gap is disappearing, feminism is disappearing with it.New York Magazine ran a feature on the disappearing generation gap in 2006: This is an obituary for the generation gap. It is a story about 40-year-old men and women who look, talk, act, and dress like people who are 22 years old. It’s not about a fad but about a phenomenon that looks to be permanent.Prescient words.Since that time we’ve seen the phenomenon of cougars – women dating younger men – become now so common that the cougar tag is (thankfully) obsolete and unremarked on. What is 10 or 15 years age difference when you listen to the same music, and like doing the same things? What does age matter anyway?Yet in destroying the generation gap, have we created a new freedom or a new sort of oppression that – predictably – weighs heavier on women?The freedom means that friendships and relationships between people of different ages can flourish like never before. Yet this creates pressure for older people. It’s not just trying to pass as young by doing yoga everyday to keep your butt shapely, and cosmetic surgery to remove any signs of aging. It means you can never settle, the way other generations before us did, in one era. You know the kind: it’s the man whose formative days coincided with Bob Dylan’s folk years, and in 2016, that’s still what he listens to. Or the woman who, in 1981, got her hair cut like Lady Diana and that is how it has stayed. These people are date-stamped. No one is date-stamped anymore. You have to keep moving, updating your playlist. To remain still is to be locked out of the forever ongoing cultural moment.Russell Crowe: female actors should act their age You may think you look great skateboarding to your law firm when you’re 50, but you are cheating the generation below you of having enemies. Kids need that distant despot in the house (who happens to be the dad), who listens to Val Doonican and hates rock’n’roll, and is always telling them to turn the music down, and cut their hair, and “If you get a tattoo, you’ll be out on your ear!”Generation gap obliterated, you go for father-son tattoo appointments. Kids have to tell their parents to turn the music down, and when their favourite Tupac T-shirt goes missing, they assume it was stolen by their dad. Kids need a flint to sharpen their stone against, an authority to rail and rage against, the opposition to define themselves against.Today’s western culture offers powerful incentives for people not to age, or at least not act their age. The date-stamped people who stopped buying clothes in the late 1980s have nothing to feed into the system. It’s in capitalism’s best interests to eliminate the date-stamped people, who spend nothing. Capitalism works best and fastest on the most restless of us.The demise of the generation gap offers extraordinary freedoms and opportunities for self-actualisation. It says: you can go to any damn music festival you want, whether you’re 5 or 50. But it tempers this beautiful freedom by imposing conditions: “All this can be yours,” – it seems to whisper – “But only if you look a certain way.”