Chances are you live in a place where less than one in 20 commuters regularly cycle to work. Sometimes people assume this is because England is too hilly, or that most home-to-work distances are too far to cycle. Hilliness and distance do matter. However, new research has found that this is only part of the story. With the right cycling conditions, cycling levels could be much higher than they are now.The Propensity to Cycle Tool (PCT) is an open source tool and research project that maps ‘cycling potential’ at area and route level, helping local government to plan cycle networks. Longer or hillier trips are less likely to be cycled, and the tool uses this information to calculate commuter cycling take-up under different scenarios. The freely available PCT visualises the cycling potential of four possible cycling futures, also highlighting current cycling levels based on census data (from the 2011 census and Cyclestreets journey planner). The Government Target scenario assumes a doubling of cycle commuting nationally – the Department for Transport’s current aim. The tool identifies where those extra trips might take place, based on how long and hilly commutes are in each area. Gender Equality calculates how cycling levels would change if women were as likely as men to cycle every commute between any two locations.The Go Dutch and Ebikes scenarios are more ambitious. Go Dutch shows what would happen if we reached average Dutch commuter cycling rates in England, accounting for differences in trip distances and hilliness between the two countries. Ebikes adds to Go Dutch the potential for mass electric bike ownership to facilitate longer and hillier trips, based on data about their use in the Netherlands and Switzerland.Under the Go Dutch scenario, nearly one in five people across England would cycle to work – around a sixfold increase. Under Ebikes, it’s more than one in four. Distance and hilliness aren’t the main barriers stopping people cycling to work in England, although some areas (such as Cornwall and Devon) may need an extra electric bike boost as well as better infrastructure and policy support to reach Dutch levels of cycling.Map of current and potential cycle commuting by local authority district, including for each scenario health and carbon benefits compared to 2011 census figures.The data suggest policies can have a major impact on cycling. Bristol is hilly, but has managed to grow cycling to the point where around one in 12 commuters cycle to work. This is similar to levels in flat, compact Hull – which has the second highest cycling potential in the country under Go Dutch.The PCT highlights the considerable benefits to be gained from realising England’s cycling potential. All areas can achieve substantial health and carbon benefits, particularly under the more ambitious scenarios – but some would see very high gains.The health impacts of cycling mainly come from the extra physical activity that people get when they take up cycling. These activity related health benefits are calculated based on local information about commuters’ age and gender, the previous form of transport used, and on the length and hilliness of the new cycle trips.Carbon benefits come from switching from car to bicycle and calculations are based on the reduction in miles driven. Across England, the Government Target scenario suggests nearly 400,000 fewer commuters driving their cars to work. Going Dutch would result in nearly two million fewer drivers, and the Ebikes scenario predicts nearly three million fewer. As well as the greenhouse gas emission benefits, such a switch would help reduce air pollution.Because current travel patterns, commuter demographics, and cycling potential vary, health and carbon benefits are highest in different areas. Under Go Dutch , Middlesbrough has the highest potential health benefits per commuter, while Spelthorne in Surrey would see the largest cut in carbon emissions. In London the health map has plenty of blue (symbolising high health benefits from a growth in cycling) but the carbon map is redder (reflecting fewer current car-driver trips, so lower carbon reduction potential).This data reinforces the case for supporting cycling. If we get infrastructure and policy right, we could see high levels of cycling across England, with substantial benefits. This should involve listening to people about what kind of infrastructure they need to feel safe and comfortable cycling. In rural and hillier areas, it’s also likely to include encouraging greater take-up of e-bikes, as is happening across northern Europe.Explore the Propensity to Cycle tool here