Massive Attack – Take It There (feat Tricky and 3D) Trip-hop pioneers Massive Attack recently released a new EP called Ritual Spirit, which features the long awaited reunion with Tricky – his first appearance on a Massive Attack record since the incredible Protection in 1994. I really like the Hiro Murai-directed video, which features the Oscar-nominated actor John Hawkes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Minor Victories – A Hundred Hopes Minor Victories is the supergroup featuring Slowdive’s Rachel Goswell, Editors’ Justin Lockey, Mogwai’s Stuart Braithwaite and Hand Held Cine Club’s James Lockey. Many supergroups and over collaborations don’t always work but I have a feeling this one will. I love the video of samurais charging in slow motion – it reminds me of a Kurosawa movie.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Spiritualized – Always Forgetting With You (The Bridge Song) The best part of the annual Record Store Day event is the special one-off releases that celebrate various scenes or artists. In 2014, the record label Lefse released a compilation called Space Project, which featured songs by artists such as Beach House, Youth Lagoon and the Holydrug Couple. It’s a really good compilation to seek out. The standout track on the album is by the mighty Spiritualized.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds – Ballad of the Mighty I (Beyond the Wizard’s Sleeve Re-animation)Andrew Weatherall: ‘Anyone can make music. What a double-edged sword’  Seven months after the release of his second solo album, the Oasis bandleader has released a selection of remixes from Chasing Yesterday. It contains terrific remixes by Andrew Weatherall, David Holmes and two by Beyond the Wizard’s Sleeve. Erol Alkan and Richard Norris’s project has been responsible for sublime “re-animations” of Midlake and Interpol, and they continue their hot streak here.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest White Noise Sound – Step into the LightThis is a hypnotic track taken from Welsh psychedelic outfit White Noise Sound’s second album, Like a Pyramid of Fire, released in 2015. Blissed-out beauty.<a href="http://whitenoisesound.bandcamp.com/album/like-a-pyramid-of-fire">Like A Pyramid Of Fire by White Noise Sound</a>John Digweed plays Bedrock at Ministry of Sound club on 24 March along with Culoe De Song and Eagles and Butterflies.