Passengers at Heathrow this Easter will be able to slip the surly bonds of Earth before they even board their flights thanks to an initiative offering travelling families new poetry by major names including Michael Rosen and Laura Dockrill.Former children’s laureate Rosen, performance poet Dockrill and the bestselling authors Danny Wallace and MG Leonard have all written new poems for Heathrow’s newly installed “poetry points”. Overhead speakers will broadcast the children’s authors’ poems to passers-by, from Rosen’s imagining of a suitcase desperate to join in the holiday fun (“I may be a suitcase / but I want to be free / I want to go to the beach, / and swim in the sea”), to Leonard’s account of the various insects journeying through the sky alongside aeroplanes.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I may be a suitcase / but I want to be free’ … Michael Rosen“Up one thousand, two thousand, three thousand feet / Are butterflies, houseflies and things with six feet / Up four thousand, five thousand, six thousand, more / You’ll meet ladybirds, aphids and beetles galore,” writes the author of Beetle Boy, which has just been published.Wallace, who has used airport codes as the focus of his poem (“My friend once flew to CLA / He came back tanned and A-OK”), said he travelled a lot with his family and thought the poetry project “sounded like a lovely thing to be a part of”.“There’s so much to work with at an airport. A million stories in and out every day,” said the writer. “But I decided to focus on one of the things that makes being there exciting – those thousands of possibilities all tied together by a few letters.”Leonard said: “I’m delighted to be involved with this project because I love reading and writing poetry, and anything that gets children experimenting with language and rhyming is wonderful”. “I knew immediately what my poem would be about because I’ve just written a book called Beetle Boy, which I did loads of research for, and discovered amazing facts about insect flight. I was excited to be able to put them into a poem about flying, and I hope as children look out of the plane windows they think about all the amazing tiny creatures we share the planet with,” she went on.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In holiday mode … Laura DockrillHeathrow’s Passport to Poetry will also see an Easter poetry competition for under 16s, judged by the authors, and workshops across the terminals over the Easter weekend.“Easter at Heathrow brings huge numbers of families travelling for leisure and we want to make it as enjoyable as possible as soon as their journey begins,” said Heathrow’s chief executive, John Holland-Kaye. “We hope that by providing poetic inspiration from children’s authors such as Michael Rosen and Danny Wallace, children and families will enjoy getting involved during their journey.”