Call the Midwife8pm, BBC1The swingingly permissive 1960s get into full, er, swing as the contraceptive pill is released, causing consternation for Sister Julienne who is fearful of the impact on unmarried women. There’s a contrasting opinion from Tom Hereward for much the same reason. Patsy treats an expectant bargee who won’t let the last throes of pregnancy prevent her from wrestling with lockgates, while a huge storm tears through Poplar, creating issues for Nurse Crane as she tackles an emergency atop a newfangled high-rise tower block. Mark Gibbings-JonesThe Night Manager9pm, BBC1After a slow-burning opener, Auntie’s (loose) adaptation of John le Carré’s novel sparks into life when Burr (Olivia Colman, terrific) recruits Jonathan Pine to take down Roper. Cue Pine mainlining his inner psychopath (a facet of his true self?) as the duo hatch a plot involving the night manager putting himself outside the law in a bid to get on the inside of Roper’s organisation. The dialogue fizzes, and the way the drama conjures up the louche atmosphere of Roper’s corrupt entourage is hugely impressive. Jonathan WrightDragons’ Den: Pitches To Riches8pm, BBC2Richard Osman lifts this sack of clips, interviews and catch-ups well above the normal level for such recycled schedule-filler. He presents a look back at notable appearances in the Den, joshing robustly with the Dragons and deftly navigating sequences in which entrepreneurs whose pitches went awry sit and review the awful footage. If you watch DD, there are rewarding updates on the inventors of Gripit Fixings and Yogiyo sauce. If you don’t, this handily gives you a lot of highlights in one amusing hour. Jack SealeChurchill’s Secret8pm, ITVA British political icon grows frail in a feature-length historical drama. But that’s enough about 2011’s The Iron Lady. Here, the great Michael Gambon plays Winston, struggling to recover from a life-threatening stroke (a condition kept hidden from the public at the time) during 1953. Against a backdrop of cold war pacts and European reuniﬁcation, can the old cove properly recover? As he tells his physician, when informed that the brain has billions of connections: “I’ve only ever needed half a dozen to take a cabinet meeting…” Ali CatterallNorthern Ballet: 19847.30pm, BBC4An adaptation of George Orwell’s dispatch from dystopia, choreographed for the Northern Ballet by Jonathan Watkins. This newspaper awarded four stars to last year’s staging of this performance at Leeds’ West Yorkshire Playhouse, admiring “a fine eye for gesture, posture and phrasing”. It’s followed by Bolshoi Babylon, an excellent Storyville film following a turbulent year in the life of the Russian ballet company, as new director Vladimir Urin seeks to move it beyond a bizarre sequence of scandals. Andrew MuellerDogs Might Fly7pm, Sky1It’s a show about training dogs to be pilots. Three canine behaviour experts spend episode one visiting rescue centres, in search of 12 finalists who progress to an intensive, nine-week residential skills academy. Can the dogs walk up a slope, follow a pointed finger and find a sausage in a kennel? If they can, it’s likely they’ll be able to fly a light aircraft. Hosting this jolly excuse for a lot of pooch cuteness – and, oddly, some clanging product placement for cars – is a faintly ashamed Jamie Theakston. JSThe Academy Awards1.30am, Sky Movies OscarsOscar night, says host Chris Rock in his promo for this year’s 88th ceremony, is like New Year’s Eve. “At the end of the night, there’s lots of drunk, disappointed people swearing they’re going to do better next year…” A pertinent remark, especially when you consider that this year not one black actor has been nominated for an award. All will no doubt be fuel to the fearless stand-up’s opening monologue, while tears, nice dresses and movie clips make up the remainder of the long, generally not awfully surprising ceremony. John Robinson      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boyz in their hoods: Attack the Block. Photograph: Publicity image from film companyFilm ChoiceTron (Steven Lisberger, 1982) 4.40pm, BBC2Computer whizz-kid Jeff Bridges is trapped in cyberspace battling everything villainous David Warner can throw at him in this expensive Disney reworking of The Wizard Of Oz. Lisberger blends early but impressive computer-generated-animation with the live action, but there’s no tin man or cowardly lion to engage the emotions. Paul HowlettLost In La Mancha(Keith Fulton, Louis Pepe, 2002) 9pm, Sky ArtsAn inside account of the Don Quixote film that never was. It was the 10-year pet project of former Python and 12 Monkeys director Terry Gilliam. Johnny Depp was on board and all was (sort of) set fair, but an appalling run of bad luck finally sank it. Fulton-Pepe’s documentary is a salutary account of how big business pressures can undermine even the grandest film visions, despite the director’s heroic determination to succeed: talk about dreaming the impossible dream. PHAttack The Block(Joe Cornish, 2011), 11.35pm, Channel 4Extraterrestrials might be scary in outer space but they aren’t quite so tough when they come up against a gang of south London council estate kids. That’s the premise of Joe Cornish’s fast, funny and socially perceptive street sci-fi movie. Peckham lad John Boyega gains some valuable alien-fighting experience as gang leader Moses, ahead of his star turn as Finn in Star Wars: The Force Awakens, with Jodie Whittaker as the nurse who aids the boys battling the monsters. PHToday’s best live sport Premiership Rugby UnionExeter Chiefs v Bath is followed by Wasps v Harlequins. 12noon, BT Sport 1Premier League Football: Manchester United v ArsenalA tough trip for the title-chasing Gunners. 1pm, Sky Sports 1Nordic Combined SkiingThe World Cup meeting from Val di Fiemme, Italy. 2pm, Eurosport 2Capital One Cup Final: Liverpool v Manchester CityCan Jürgen Klopp begin his career in English football with a trophy? 4pm, Sky Sports 1