Doug Aitken: Electric EarthNon-stop art: why Doug Aitken is a man on a mission A grove of trees, an undulating desert, a horse in a field: seemingly banal imagery becomes, in Aitken’s immersive and rhythmic video projections, the source of intense and uncanny sensations. The first American retrospective for this California artist, spanning 40,000 sq ft, will feature seven of his hi-def, hi-spec video works, one of which is new. Aitken’s installations may be the biggest draw for a Hollywood crowd, but this show also promises to highlight his drawings and collages, which articulate the same themes of displacement and urban life with rather more delicacy.Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, 10 September – 15 JanuaryCarmen Herrera: Lines of Sight      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carmen Herrera: Lines of Sight. Photograph: Cejas Art Ltd. Paul and Trudy Cejas © Carmen HerreraCarmen Herrera: 'Every painting has been a fight between the painting and me. I tend to win' Some artists get a major museum show right out of graduate school; some artists have to wait until they’re 101. This is an overdue showcase for the Cuban-born centenarian painter, whose exacting geometric compositions – of boldly contrasting blue and orange stripes, or whispering green triangles drowned in fields of white – have an emotional impact that belies their hard edges. They also hint at her early study of architecture; Herrera studied the building arts at the University of Havana in 1938, while Fidel Castro was still in short pants. Whitney Museum of American Art, New York, 16 September – 2 JanuaryInauguration of the National Museum of African American History and Culture      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Washington monument is seen in the background as construction continues on the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. Photograph: Jim Watson/AFP/Getty ImagesFirst look at the Smithsonian's museum of African American history – in pictures On the last vacant lot on the national mall, in the shadow of the Washington monument, the British architect David Adjaye has designed a lustrous home for the newest member museum of the Smithsonian. The bronze-covered aluminum grilles, whose designs draw on cast-iron fixtures made by American slaves, enclose 105,000 sq ft of exhibition space, devoted to a new, full-throated narrative of black history. The museum has had to put together its entire collection in just 13 years; it now houses 35,000 objects, evidence of the goodwill and impatience that have greeted this new institution.Washington DC, opens 24 SeptemberJerusalem 1000–1400: Every People Under Heaven      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jerusalem 1000–1400: Every People Under Heaven. Photograph: Marie-Armelle Beaulieu /Custodia Terræ SanctæEverything is illuminated: the wonder of medieval manuscripts – in pictures When medieval mapmakers sketched the known world, the city they put at the center was a Levantine hub as important for merchants as for believers. The Met’s fall blockbuster takes us to medieval Jerusalem, which was a crossroads not only for Jews, Christians and Muslims, but for a host of polytheistic visitors from as far as Scandinavia and India. In the show’s manuscripts, prayer books, marble capitals, and gold-slathered Torahs and Korans, Jerusalem appears as both a real city and an imaginary place, the portal to a world beyond this one.Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, 26 September – 8 JanuaryLos Angeles to New York: Dwan Gallery, 1959–1971In 1959, long before Los Angeles had become an art world hub, the dealer and philanthropist Virginia Dwan opened one of America’s most important galleries for avant garde painting. Later, in New York, she became a champion of minimalism and a heroic sponsor of land art; Robert Smithson’s Spiral Jetty, a corkscrew of mud and basalt in the Great Salt Lake, happened because of her. Now 84, she’s donated her personal collection to the American people, and the hundred-odd works of art in this show, by such artists as Philip Guston, Agnes Martin, and Yves Klein, are only a taste of the full gift. The show inaugurates the National Gallery’s renovated east galleries, closed these past three years; it tours to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in 2017.National Gallery of Art, Washington DC, 30 September – 29 JanuaryHélio Oiticica: To Organize Delirium      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helio Oiticica: To Organize Delirium. Photograph: Alexandre Baratta/© César and Claudio OiticicaAdrian Searle on the vivid work of Hélio Oiticica There may not a more vigorous show this year than this long-awaited, full-dress retrospective of Brazil’s slipperiest postwar artist. After an early phase of vibrant, syncopated abstract paintings, Oiticica embraced the tropicalist spirit of the 1960s with wearable capes, tents festooned with hay, and agitprop against the country’s ruling junta. The last now seems all too relevant: many figures in the Brazilian art world have denounced the ejection of Dilma Rousseff, herself an opponent of the military regime, as a modern-day coup. Next year, the show travels to the Whitney in New York and the Art Institute of Chicago.Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh, 1 October – 2 JanuaryMonet: The Early Years      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Monet: The Early Years. Photograph: Gemeentemuseum Den HaagThere is no such thing as too much Monet | Jonathan Jones In his 20s, the painter who would become synonymous with impressionism had his eye on two colleagues: his mentor Eugène Boudin, whose intimate seascapes captured the new bourgeoisie at leisure, and his hipper friend Édouard Manet, whose radically flat nudes would cause a scandal at the Salon. This is the first show devoted to the early work of Monet, and it includes both his own Luncheon on the Grass (a tamer response to Manet’s masterpiece of that name) and his still-stunning Magpie, whose subtle effects of light on snow hint at the eruption of color to come. In 2017, the show tours to the Legion of Honor in San Francisco.Kimbell Museum of Art, Fort Worth, 16 October – 29 JanuaryPaint the Revolution: Mexican Modernism, 1910 – 1950      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paint the Revolution: Mexican Modernism, 1910–1950. Photograph: © Banco de México Diego Rivera Frida Kahlo Museums Trust, Mexico, D.F./Artists Rights Society (ARS), New YorkIn the aftermath of the Mexican revolution, the country’s artists forged a new painterly vocabulary, which fused European modernism with local folkloric traditions, and became a global phenomenon. This giant show places paintings by Frida Kahlo and Rufino Tamayo alongside photography, books, and graphic design, though the country’s awesome murals – by such masters as Diego Rivera and José Clemente Orozco – will have to be replicated with some digital niftiness. This is the most substantial exhibition of 20th-century Mexican art to hit the US since the second world war. In 2017, it travels to the Museo del Palacio de Bellas Artes, Mexico City.Philadelphia Museum of Art, 25 October – 8 JanuaryMartin Luther: Art and the Reformation      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin Luther: Art and the Reformation. Photograph: © Foundation Schloss Friedenstein GothaMartin Luther: Renegade and Prophet by Lyndal Roper – review A treasury of sculptures, textiles and gold is travelling from Germany to the midwest for this hefty historical exhibition, which takes place 500 years after the religious reformer nailed his 95 theses to a church door in Wittenberg. Unlike later, more iconoclastic Protestants, Luther endorsed painted images insofar as they encouraged piety – and German painters, above all Lucas Cranach the Elder, produced brilliant narrative tableaux that jibed with Luther’s preaching. The show also will include bric-a-brac from the Luther family home, including jewelry, furniture and even the tiles from the walls.Minneapolis Institute of Art, 30 October – 15 JanuaryUgo Rondinone: Good Evening Beautiful BlueThe Swiss artist, known for glowing rainbows, awkward hominids, and stacks of fluorescent rocks in the Nevada desert, gets his first American museum show, opening to coincide with Art Basel. Rondinone’s versatility, bordering on restlessness, can come as a relief in an art world that privileges Identikit production, and this exhibition promises not only video works and mirrored installations, but a gallery of life-size clowns. The show will be the first in the Bass’s renovated home, designed by the Japanese architect Arata Isozaki – and located in South Beach.Bass Museum of Art, Miami Beach, 1 December – 27 March