It takes a few episodes of Better Things, the new FX comedy about an actor raising her three daughters in LA, to realize that there aren’t really any men in the series. Something similar dawns on you watching Atlanta, another new FX comedy about two cousins trying to make it in the southern entertainment Mecca’s hip-hop scene – except instead of men being absent it is white characters. Once you notice that these mainstays of traditional TV sitcoms aren’t here – as extinct as the dodo or Ryan Lochte’s endorsement deals – you also realize that you don’t much miss them.The definitive guide to fall TV There are some men in Better Things, of course, but they are relegated to the minor roles usually reserved for women in comedy’s boys’ club: romantic interests and co-workers, shopkeepers and other such functionaries. To make the contrast even starker, the main character, Sam (Pamela Adlon), and her three daughters, Max (Mikey Madison), Frankie (Hannah Alligood) and Duke (Olivia Edward), all have dudes’ names.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The white people in Atlanta – and there are even fewer of them than there are men in Better Things – serve the same purpose that black actors do on other comedies. That is, they serve to make a point about race in America, before disappearing. For instance, a white colleague is seen to use the n-word around the main character, Earnest (Donald Glover), but not around his much more physically imposing cousin Paper Boi (Brian Tyree Henry) or their gonzo friend Darius (Keith Stanfield).The lack of such characters allows these new, fresh voices to be heard – and in both shows, they’re vibrant and engrossing. Better Things is a product of the partnership between Adlon and Louis CK – Adlon served as both a writer and co-star on Louie for several seasons and as CK’s wife on the ill-fated HBO comedy Lucky Louie. They created this show together (both serve as either writer or director of many of the episodes) and it shares lots in its DNA with CK’s signature creation. Not only is Better Things about an entertainer trying to raise a group of daughters; it’s also an occasionally meandering, philosophical series of vignettes.Adlon’s character, Sam, is much more sympathetic and down-to-earth than the Pamela we met on Louie. Just as CK is famous for his riff about how his kids are assholes, Sam has the same sort of antagonistic relationship with her children, scoffing at her oldest daughter when she asks her to score pot but then stealing the condom she finds under her daughter’s nightstand for an assignation with a married man. While there are some rah-rah moments of feminism, like Sam’s speech at a women and girls’ empowerment seminar at her daughter’s school, Better Things is searching for a deeper meaning in how to navigate the world as a woman at all stages of life, both the good and the bad. Imagine Inside Amy Schumer were it half as didactic and twice as melancholy. While it sometimes can veer into familiar territories of sitcom schmaltz, Better Things offers essential fresh takes on motherhood, Hollywood and the vagaries of teenage life.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Atlanta is as concerned with race as Better Things is about gender. In the show’s second episode, when Earnest finds himself in jail (not to be confused with Ernest Goes to Jail), he sees an inmate who is clearly mentally ill. When the cops say the inmate is imprisoned every week, Earnest wonders why they keep locking him up instead of getting him help. The cops treat him gently until he drinks toilet water and spits it at them; then they viciously beat him. It’s comical, harrowing, audacious and sobering all at the same time. That is what makes Atlanta an even better show than Better Things – in fact, one of the best new shows on television in quite some time. Glover is the star and creator of what feels a little bit like a hip-hop Girls. Earnest is barely employed, broke, and “technically homeless” as he pursues his dreams of being a rap manager while trying to raise his daughter. Like Lena Dunham, Glover is obviously playing a much less successful and ambitious version of himself. While Atlanta’s observations are as keen as those in Better Things, the show is much more consistent in its laughs and tone. Atlanta also tackles a variety of subjects almost effortlessly, whether it’s homophobia and transphobia, the cycle of poverty, or the fraught relationship between law enforcement and the black community. Just as in real life, these issues can creep up anywhere and at any time, and Atlanta always has smart things to say about them. Everything about this program seems new and vital, stylishly shot in hues that make the projects of Atlanta look like they were washed over with honeycomb and steeped in sunlight. The same is true of Better Things. This is a great step for FX, whose recent comedy duds, such as Baskets and Sex&Drugs&Rock&Roll, deliver the same angsty straight-guy schtick that is pervasive in the world of so-called cutting-edge comedy. Though these new shows share little more than a network, they are also united in their desire to lend a voice to stories that are often ignored or marginalized. They’re both so darn good, audiences might start demanding fewer white guys in just about everything.Atlanta premieres on FX on Tuesday 6 September at 10pm ET. Better Things premieres on FX on Thursday 8 September at 9pm ET.  