June Brown at 90: A Walford Legend8.30pm, BBC1A birthday celebration of the actor who has, over 32 years, gradually made Dot Cotton one of Britain’s best TV characters. The programme offers clips, behind-the-scenes shots and glowing tributes but wisely spends most of its time just letting Brown talk. She’s a spiky old pro who doesn’t take the character home with her and has flourished when EastEnders has veered toward the pure theatre you suspect Brown would rather be doing. Jack SealeRussia’s Hooligan Army 9pm, BBC2The black-clad marauders encountered by England fans at Euro 2016 seemed like a new strain of hooligan: not drunken brawlers but sober, disciplined and terrifyingly single-minded. This shocking film sees Alex Stockley von Statzer travel to Russia to meet some of these paramilitary thugs, placing them in the context of emergent Russian nationalism and locating links to some very high places indeed. What fun the 2018 World Cup could be. Phil HarrisonMafia Women With Trevor McDonald 9pm, ITVA sequel to McDonald’s previous investigation into the modern-day mafia, in which he meets the wives, girlfriends and daughters of the professional criminals he interviewed last time. The calibre, if that’s the word, of the subjects of this two-part documentary is impressive: they include Toni Marie Ricci (ex-wife of Gambino family capo-turned-informant Michael DiLeonardo) and Linda Scarpa, the daughter of prolific hitman Greg Scarpa Sr. Andrew MuellerNotes on Blindness: Storyville 9pm, BBC4Released as a film last year, this revelatory Bafta-nominated docudrama concerns John Hull, a theology professor who lost his sight in 1980 at the age of 45. Soon after, he began recording his beautifully articulated insights into blindness and its effect on his mind. Along with subsequent interviews, it is these tapes that the film constructs itself around, with a cast of actors – including Dan Renton Skinner as Hull – lip-synching along to them. Rachel AroestiThe Great Pottery Throw Down 8pm, BBC2It’s raku week, involving “the most brutal firing in ceramics” and the subsequent nerve-wracking transferral of hot pots into a box full of customised combustible materials. Will everyone’s Japanese sake sets survive? And what’s with all the banana skins? Elsewhere, there are rice bowls to be flung and artful lanterns to be carved, all under the watchful eyes of Sara Cox, and judges Kate Malone and Keith Brymer Jones. Graeme VirtueInside Dior 9pm, More4Part two of an intriguing behind-the-scenes exploration into the Parisian fashion house focuses on its current creative director, Maria Grazia Chiuri – the first woman to lead the brand, and one who seems determined to bring her own eye for detail and feminist ways to Dior. There’s also further exploration of the different branches of the 70-year-old empire, from perfume to skincare to jewellery, much of which their mega-rich clientele purchase without even viewing. Hannah J DaviesNoisey 10pm, VicelandNew series of the documentary strand exploring cultural and music scenes around the world – from French rappers in Paris to South Korean K-Pop, and Afrobeat and Femi Kuti in Lagos. In this excellent opener, Zach Goldbaum heads for the San Francisco Bay Area to meet musicians such as G-Eazy and Nef the Pharaoh, alongside the Black Lives Matter movement, in a territory that has witnessed a high number of police shootings of black people. Ali CatterallFilm choiceCypher (Vincenzo Natali, 2002) 11.15pm, Film4Things seem to be looking up for Jeremy Northam’s jaded accountant Morgan Sullivan when he is enlisted by the mysterious Digicorp organisation as an industrial spy. Suddenly, he’s transformed into Jack Thursby, jetting off on adventures and meeting a genuine femme fatale – Lucy Liu’s Rita. But Sullivan’s dream of an exciting life soon turns into a deadly nightmare in this fast and smart sci-fi thriller. Paul HowlettUp In The Air (Jason Reitman, 2009) 11.45pm, BBC1If anyone can make a professional redundancy consultant charming, it’s George Clooney. His effortlessly suave Ryan Bingham first-classes it around the US, putting a ludicrously handsome face to a heartless business. It’s sophisticated, witty, beautifully shot and has super support from Vera Farmiga as Bingham’s similarly business-class lover, and Anna Kendrick as a young colleague who needs a lesson in (supposedly) compassionate capitalism. PHToday’s best live sportSnooker: The Welsh Open Day four from Cardiff 11.45am, Eurosport 2Cycling: Tour of Andalusia Stage two, involving a 177.9km journey from Torredonjimeno to Mancha Real in Spain. 3pm, Eurosport 1Europa League Football: Manchester United v St Etienne The second-tier European competition continues at Old Trafford. 7.30pm, BT Sport 2