Swindon council has been warned by librarians that if it goes ahead with plans to close 11 of its 15 libraries by next summer, future generations “will not have the same opportunities and support … as the current generation have enjoyed”.The council proposed last week that in order to cut its library budget by £1.5m, just Highworth, North Swindon, West Swindon and the Central library would stay open, with 11 other libraries to lose council support from next June. Swindon hopes that volunteers will take over the service in those areas, and will provide a one-off pot of £500,000 to groups looking to do this, according to the Swindon Advertiser.The latest proposals, which go before the council’s cabinet on Wednesday, also suggest that three of the four libraries remaining open would only be staffed for 15 hours a week, with volunteers or self-service technology suggested as a way of keeping the branches open.In a column in the paper, councillor David Renard wrote that “the council is facing an enormous financial challenge and it is one we cannot shy away from. If we are going to survive and fulfil our statutory obligation of looking after the most vulnerable in our society we have to spend less money on what most people regard as traditional council services.”The new proposals, he said, would mean that “80 per cent of current library users and 85 per cent of Swindon’s households are within two miles of a library”, with “community-led solutions” bringing the figure up to 95% of people in the borough. “It is time to channel the passion we have for our libraries into creating an innovative service we can all be proud of,” he wrote.But Nick Poole, chief executive of the Chartered Institute of Library Professionals (CILIP), has written to Renard calling on him to “reconsider the extent of your proposals and find the means to maintain as much of the existing service within your statutory provision as possible”. Councils have a statutory duty to provide a comprehensive public library service.“We note with concern that the model being proposed for Swindon is more severe in its reduction of the statutory service than almost any other we have seen,” wrote Poole. “In similar circumstances, others have found solutions and options which enable them to secure more of their library service on behalf of their electorate.”Writing of how “a library serves as the beating heart of a community”, Poole told Renard that without skilled librarians, “a library is just a building … We urge you to avoid falling into the trap of thinking that simply maintaining opening hours through self-service systems will deliver the kind of library service which your community expects, needs and deserves,” he said, calling on the council to “take this opportunity to reconsider before you commit to a process that will cause long-term damage to the futures of the people you represent”.CILIP said it had received a response from Renard, in which the councillor said the libraries proposed for closure provided a service to very few people, and that the financial pressure it is under means the council is running out of alternatives.Poole said in response: “Councils must not just pay lip service to public consultation over the future of library services … Public libraries are there for their communities – there is a contract of trust between the public, library staff and local authority – in Swindon this is being placed in jeopardy. I am deeply concerned that future generations in Swindon will not have the same opportunities and support for their learning and development as the current generation have enjoyed.”Library campaigners also spoke out about the changes, with Elizabeth Ash, trustee of the Library Campaign, saying that “for a council leader to consider the shutting of 11 of 15 libraries in Swindon as innovative truly beggars belief”.“What is happening in Swindon is sadly indicative of the general libraries landscape, due to no real leadership or action from the government, the opposition or the Libraries Taskforce,” said Ash. With 60 libraries and five mobile libraries under threat since 1 April 2016, according to monitoring website Public Libraries News, new reports in the last week have shown that six libraries are at risk in Gateshead, while children’s authors including laureate Chris Riddell and novelist Cathy Cassidy are protesting at cuts in Coventry that Cassidy says will “devastate library provision” in the city.“Library services are being systematically destroyed under the guise of innovation – destaffed, deskilled, co-located into smaller spaces or relocated into pubs, GP surgeries and post offices – all just cuts by another name, along with cuts to the stock and service on offer,” said Ash. “This dismantling of the public library service is happening at an alarming rate.” Shirley Burnham, from Save Swindon’s Libraries, said that Swindon was “not alone in planning to leave vast swathes of its population without a public library service. We are seeing every day libraries falling like ninepins in urban and rural areas. It is a tragedy – and nothing is done. Swindon had a visit by the [government’s Libraries Taskforce] this year. On the evidence, what did that achieve?”But Burnham said the borough’s library service is a success, with data from the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy showing that 1,049,172 people visited Swindon libraries between April 2014 and March 2015. “We are lucky to have a high-performance library service here … Campaigners and library users alike want Swindon to reject mediocrity, to value our public libraries and proudly decide to be a beacon for other authorities.”