Born to Kill9pm, Channel 4The last in what has been an excellent, deeply unnerving series, with Jack Rowan a revelation as Sam, the seemingly exemplary and self-possessed teenager whose psychopathic tendencies rise to the surface when he learns about the father he believed was dead. With Sam’s dad released from prison, a horrified Jenny must make one last, desperate effort to understand and block her son’s increasingly dangerous behaviour – but is it too late? David StubbsThe Supervet8pm, Channel 4Once more into the world of bionic cats, with Noel Fitzpatrick. As you may know from the show’s eight well-loved previous series, the Surrey veterinary surgeon takes on cases that other vets balk at – embracing technologies such as prostheses and implants. His oft-repeated motto is “It’s a whole new era”, and in tonight’s show he offers a double knee replacement on a rescue papillon, helps a mountain dog with spinal problems and fits a bionic foot on a German shepherd. John RobinsonThe Truth About Sleep9pm, BBC1Michael Mosley has never been shy of using himself as a guinea pig in the name of TV science. In his career to date, he has taken psychedelic mushrooms and offered us a tour of his own intestines. But as a chronic insomniac, he’s already a living example of what he’s investigating tonight. So what lies behind his sleeplessness? Here, he undergoes DNA analysis and visits Denmark to see if sleeping under the stars offers a solution. Phil HarrisonFrom Morocco to Timbuktu: An Arabian Adventure9pm, BBC2First of a two-parter in which Alice Morrison follows the trade routes linking Tangier in Morocco to Timbuktu in Mali. Potentially fascinating, but this treatment is plagued, like many travel shows, by an apparent anxiety that it should be comprehensible to any passing viewer who has never travelled beyond the end of their road or opened a book. The narration becomes more interesting the further it gets from Morocco’s cities, however. Andrew MuellerCar Crash Britain: Caught on Camera9pm, ITVWith the nation’s dashboards and bike helmets increasingly encumbered with video-grubbing technology, every pile-up finds itself more likely than ever to be crammed on to an SD card. Jamie Theakston returns to narrate a second series of the documentary compiling such footage, tonight including that of a woman narrowly avoiding calamity as a car slams through her office, and what might be the tightest parallel parking ever witnessed. Mark Gibbings-Jones      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Final course … Rob Brydon and Steve Coogan say their goodbyes in The Trip to Spain. Photograph: Rory MulveyThe Trip to Spain 10pm,Sky AtlanticIt’s the end of the road for Michael Winterbottom’s superlative road trilogy, with a climax that utterly pulls the rug out from under our feet, while wryly commenting on themes explored throughout the series. Before we get to that, though, there’s the Alhambra citadel and Málaga to drink in, and a riff on Anthony Hopkins channelling Picasso as William Bligh of HMS Bounty (“I’ll put the nose where the cheek is, damn your eyes, sir!”). Amazing. Ali CatterallGuerrilla9pm, Sky AtlanticJohn Ridley’s black power drama continues to impress and frustrate in equal measure. It’s politically engaged, unflinching and features nuanced performances from the likes of Wunmi Mosaku as Pence’s informant, Kenya. Against this, atmosphere and script too often trip across the line dividing serious from sombre. In tonight’s penultimate episode, Jas, in so deep she’s lost, reaches out to a former ally. Betrayals and switchbacks abound. Jonathan WrightFilm choiceThe Mouse That Roared (Jack Arnold, 1959) 2.45pm, Film4 Peter Sellers takes three roles in a jolly British comedy, adapted from Leonard Wibberley’s novel The Wrath of Grapes. He plays the prime minister of the tiny state of Grand Fenwick, which decides to declare war on the US as a shaky ruse to avoid bankruptcy. Sellers also plays the heroic Tully Bascombe, who leads the archaic army’s 20-strong, chain-mail clad invasion force, and is quite astonishing as Queen Gloriana. Paul HowlettLive sportGolf: The Players Championship 12.30pm, Sky Sports 4 Coverage of the first day’s play from Florida.One-Day Cup Cricket: Nottinghamshire Outlaws v Durham Jets 1.55pm, Sky Sports 2 Coverage of the North Group match from Trent Bridge.Europa League Football: Manchester United v Celta Vigo 7.30pm, BT Sport 2 The second leg of the semi-final at Old Trafford.