The proposal by the trustees of Bradford’s National Media Museum to relocate thousands of objects southwards to the V&A (Report, 4 March) is yet another example of the cultural imperialism and stranglehold that a London coterie imposes upon the rest of us. These same Science Museum Group trustees also rule the Railway Museum in York, and the Science and Industry Museum in Manchester. Most of them were educated and live in the south – few have significant roots in the north of England. Michael LeslieBingley, West Yorkshire• Why have a collection that nobody sees, asks David Reed, the chair of Hampstead Photographic Society (Letters, 7 March), in support of the move of the Royal Photographic Society’s collection to the V&A. But if correct resources were allocated to the National Media Museum in Bradford, then it wouldn’t have to operate limited view by appointment for this specific archive, and more people would see it. The Science Museum has in fact presided over the running down of film and photography exhibits, proving again that you can get what you want by underfunding for a bit and then bemoaning the results.I feel bad that Hampstead is so remote and cut off from other national archives.Augustin BousfieldBradford• It’s strange to hear such news coming not from a country at war and in extreme danger of losing its heritage but from a top cultural western institution. One cannot dismember a collection or divide one museum simply to enrich another. Every single piece is a statement of a unique narrative that has been built thanks to the will of donors, curators and workers. And it will take so much time and public money to remake the inventories!On a personal level, when, in 2011, the Cineteca Nazionale (the Italian national film archive) was restoring the first English fiction film, The Soldier’s Courtship (shot by Robert William Paul in 1896), the National Media Museum generously contributed some missing frames. Toni Booth, the museum’s collections manager and associate curator of cinematography, arranged for 11¾ frames in the Kodak collection to be duplicated and sent electronically to us in Rome, so we could integrate them into the timeline.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Soldier’s Courtship, 1896, restored by the Cineteca Nazionale with help from Bradford’s National Media Museum – videoThanks, National Media Museum, I hope you accomplish your motto: “We aim to be the best museum in the world for inspiring people to learn about, engage with and create media”.Nancy Irela NunezBassano Romano, Italy• I was pleased to see many prominent photographers and artists backing the campaign to keep the Royal Photographic Society photographic archive in Bradford (Report, 7 March). Important visual archives must allow easy public access. Bradford has good transport links to the whole of the north of England and is already acknowledged as a centre for the visual arts. The answer is to bring the rest of the archive to Bradford and invest in a truly accessible world-class facility open to all. Nothing less should be seen as a failure by all involved in making decisions on such important cultural assets.Alan StopherPresident-elect, Yorkshire Photographic Union• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com