Breakfast At Tiffany’s, LeicesterPixie Lott plays Holly Golightly in Nikolai Foster’s revival of Truman Capote’s story about a good-time girl living in New York in 1943 who captivates everyone, including a young writer from Louisiana. But Holly remains elusive and it looks unlikely that true love will ever run its course, particularly considering she has her sights set on a millionaire. The film starred Audrey Hepburn in one of her most celebrated roles and Lott will have to work hard to banish the memory. Likewise, Foster’s production will need to be sharp to ensure this old-fashioned, gossamer-light romantic comedy hits the spot for modern audiences. The show goes out on tour after its Leicester run, with Verity Rushworth playing Holly at some venues.Curve Theatre, Thu to 12 Mar; touring to 25 JunLGKiss Me Quickstep, Newcastle-under-LymeAmanda Whittington is a playwright with the popular touch, but that doesn’t mean her work lacks depth. Her 1997 play Be My Baby captured the anguish of unmarried teenage mothers in the 1960s, while her reimagining of the Ruth Ellis story in The Thrill Of Love perceptively examined the way we demonise women who kill. Her latest play takes to the dancefloor, telling the fictional stories of couples competing at Blackpool’s ballroom dancing championships, which are held at the Winter Gardens and where in excess of 3,000 entrants from more than 60 countries compete in different categories from Latin to quickstep. However, in some cases, behind the toothy smiles and fake tans lie fierce ambition, desperation and secrets. It sounds even more fun than Strictly.New Vic Theatre, Fri to 19 MarLGCosì Fan Tutte & Cosi, LondonIslington’s King’s Head has established itself as a home for quality, small-scale opera with a twist. Here, it takes a perennial favourite and pairs it with a play with a similar title and parallel themes of love and fidelity. Paul Higgins, who has worked at Glyndebourne and Opera Holland Park, directs Mozart’s Così Fan Tutte (Tue to 3 Apr), shifting the romance to the world of reality TV. Meanwhile, the play Cosi (Wed to 2 Apr) by Louis Nowra concerns a staging of that opera with patients in an Australian psychiatric unit, set against a backdrop of anti-Vietnam war protests. Neighbours alumnus Mark Little returns to the London stage for the production.King’s Head Theatre, N1MCUp Down Man, SalisburyA way to measure how theatre is changing and becoming more diverse is to look at the voices it facilitates. So it’s good to see playwright Brendan Murray back with a sequel to Up Down Boy, which told the story of Matty Butler, a boy with Down’s syndrome, and his mother’s experience of bringing him up. Now Murray follows Matty (again played by Nathan Bessell) into adulthood as he faces up to the challenges of maturity. His mother realises that she, too, is growing older and ponders what will happen to her child when she’s no longer there. It’s produced by Myrtle Theatre, a company that specialises in articulating the experiences of those who are often marginalised.Salisbury Playhouse: The Salberg, to 12 MarLGTable Top Shakespeare, LondonAs 2016 is the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death, we’ll no doubt hear plenty more about the bard over the coming months. Here, the Barbican gets on the case early with a less orthodox approach to the man. Throughout the first week of March, Forced Entertainment will be performing all 36 plays over six days with the aid of household objects (Macbeth is a cheesegrater, Pericles a lightbulb, Hamlet is played by a bottle of ink; that sort of thing), plus a tabletop and clear, accessible summaries of the texts. In addition, there will be a whole range of free events for all ages in Play On (Fri to 6 Mar): you can watch the RSC demonstrate stage fighting, join in with Shakespeare bingo, get a period hairdo and much more.Barbican Centre: The Pit, EC2, Tue to 6 MarMCOpus 7, On tourThere was a time when no theatre show was complete without a ukulele or community choir, but times change and 2016’s essential theatrical accessory is a brass band. Later this year, Alain Platel’s En Avant, Marche! hits London, but this month French company Circa Tsuica is out on tour combining daredevil acrobatics and brass band rhythms, the latter supplied by a local band at most venues. Produced by Circus Evolution and Crying Out Loud, this sounds like a distinctive show that should help nourish the growing appetite for contemporary circus.The Civic, Barnsley, Sat; Lawrence Batley Theatre, Huddersfield, Sun & Mon; Oxford Playhouse, Wed & Thu; Deda, Derby, Fri; touring to 15 MarLG