At the beginning of this year I promised I’d become a vegetarian. I planned a slow withdrawal from meat, a step-by-step renunciation of lifelong pleasures that would begin with the pork pie and continue through roast chicken, fried steak and grilled bacon until, come the autumn, I would have only mince to look forward to once a week; mince because in its numerous avatars – as lasagna, Bolognese ragu, cottage pie, chilli con carne, sausages and of course a l’ecossais, as mince plain and simple stewed with onions and served with floury potatoes – it seemed the hardest to do without.Twelve months have passed and very little of this scheme has been implemented. I probably eat less meat, but no variety of it has been entirely eliminated. A month ago, I even ate a quarter of a pork pie that somebody else had neglected to finish and put for safekeeping in the fridge. There has been a predictable failure of will, a feeling of “Oh, well, what difference will it make to anything?” that may be present in rising levels among the population more generally, a symptom of our times.Of course, I never imagined my act of abstinence would reduce the amount of global warming methane expelled by ruminants bred for slaughter, just as (a later project, should I ever accomplish the first) I don’t think my giving up tuna will do much to save fish stocks. As to the amount of animal pain I would prevent, the only reasonable hope is not to add to its increase. On the other hand, I’m not persuaded by the view that the world will be saved by inter-governmental summits rather than individual action – that we can carry on with business as usual until our behaviour is changed for us from above. There is enough of the Gandhian in me to respect personal example, even if not quite enough to set that example myself. I worry, not very effectually, about my hypocrisy: the year of the secret pork pie has told me once again that I am weak.One big thing Gandhi got wrongOne comfort is that there are bigger hypocrites. They include the environmentalists who jet around the world from conference to conference, and Gandhi himself – and not because of the cliche that it cost a fortune to keep him in poverty. It pains me to say it, but Gandhi’s hatred of railways was one of the most striking features of his first published manifesto, Hind Swaraj, which he wrote on his return voyage from London to South Africa in 1909. In Gandhi’s opinion, railways bore a heavy responsibility for almost every Indian ill: without them, Britain wouldn’t have established their hold on the country; by enabling the masses to move quickly and easily, they spread the bubonic plague; they caused famine because they allowed farmers to get higher prices for their crops at distant markets; they brought lazy rogues to holy places that had previously been visited only by the hard-travelling devotee.“Good travels at snail’s pace – it can, therefore, have little to do with the railways,” wrote Gandhi mystically. “But evil has wings. To build a house takes time. Its destruction takes none. So the railways become a distributing agency for the evil one only.” As with many of Gandhi’s notions, this one had European origins – in the same year as Gandhi’s London visit, an English writer, Thomas F Taylor, had published similar arguments in a book entitled The Fallacy of Speed. How much Gandhi changed his mind subsequently about railways is hard to know, but the fact is that his work in South Africa wouldn’t have been possible without trains, and his later campaigning across India, in which he famously travelled lower-class, depended on the system that in his view could propagate nothing but evil. It seems unlikely that he saw himself as a hypocrite, any more than the climate-change activist on his way to yet another jamboree by Boeing; he was using the quickest means to spread the word. But perhaps a little self-scrutiny was lacking, some public weighing up of ends versus means. In any case, he was wrong about railways. A far more serious consequence of their invention than their ability to speed footpads from Delhi to Benares was the carbon they sent into the atmosphere, though nobody knew that then.Reasons to be cheerful in 2015 … ?How would you describe the mental state of Britain, supposing a country can be generalized in this way, as we enter the New Year? I would say: bewildered and apprehensive. From the weather to the likely composition of the next government to the future shape of the state itself – a united or divided state; in or out of the European Union – everything looks dangerously (or refreshingly) fluid. Are there any reasons to be cheerful? Here are five of mine.1. A victory for the tenants of the New Era estate. It may be too starry-eyed to see this as a game-changing moment, but a New York property company’s retreat from its plan to refurbish 96 east London flats – and treble or quadruple their rents – suggests public protest can affect corporate behaviour. Whether it will begin to discourage international speculation in the London housing market is a different question. One can hope.2. Standing up for the old. London has an unfair reputation for rude and selfish behaviour. The orderly bus queue may have vanished, never to return, but personal observation (I have no statistics) indicates that people are quicker now to give up their bus and Tube seats to the frail and elderly, sometimes leading to silent alarm and outrage among those who feel they have been misidentified as such. (“No, no, no. Sit where you are.”)3. Whatever Gandhi thought, railways can change things for the better. The new overground link between Islington and south London is crowded at all times of day. Where were all these people before? How astonishing to find that Canonbury is really quite close to New Cross! This isn’t metrocentricity speaking. Scotland has opened several new lines. In the autumn, the Borders will see trains again after an absence of nearly 40 years.4. The summer of 2014. On several still and cloudless days in mid-September I went swimming in the Firth of Clyde. Never in my memory has the water and weather been warm enough to swim so pleasurably so late. This could be ominous in whole-planet terms, but let’s think instead of what a succession of equally fine summers would do for Bute, aka the Madeira of the North.