Daughters of the DustThere can be no mermaids of the steppethough its bare hills roll and boom like the sea. Onlysome strange creature, lithe in the gelid dustand furred like a fox: silent, accusing in the eyes,a deep wind parting fur down to bone coloured skin.Horizons pile thin as paper one atop the nextand they spin their story into the pinched air: a woman,and a wish, and a corsac fox. Nightsof the great white zud they might dance away the snow,leaving paths of grass for the herd to eat, or elserise like walls to blow across the landscapestately and slow and sickening, only the chiming icesinging their welcome with its spare high notes,each like the prick of a needle. And in the city,where the nights smell of sweet smoke and milkand idling traffic, they go walking now:silent over the glaze of blood frozen to the groundaround the wrestling palace. Silent in the alleyswhere stray dogs sleep in the warmth from sewer grates.Silent past the cafes where soldiers thaw their browsover salt milk tea. Silent, until they are singing,each alone in the dim reaches of the night,each pale as an unlit candle, up through the gerswhere the roads falter and the lights go out; up to the mountainwhere the wind sings back; towering, and tidal, and old.The sweep of the rhythm in Daughters of the Dust evokes the rolling Mongolian steppe that is its setting and, more broadly, suggests the movement of wind and weather, nomads and horses, and, perhaps, vaster trajectories of modern travel and migration. Rhiannon Hooson is a young Welsh poet whose imagination is sometimes engrossed by her native country, but is clearly not constrained by it. The Other City is her first full collection, although an earlier pamphlet included Daughters of the Dust: you can read a little more about its inception here.  Having dismissed the unlikely notion of Mongolian mermaids, the speaker sets out to find their geographically appropriate equivalent. The time-honoured fictional device (of starting a story with “not this, but possibly this”) is the portal into myth and more – a sombre, intensely imagined celebration of a real place. Notice the music as you read – and how the erratic-seeming use of commas, some unexpectedly absent, others carefully present, denotes pace and pause. It’s not until the end of the first stanza that the speaker begins her conjury by setting out the three ingredients – “a woman, / and a wish, and a corsac fox”. These are the elements that will “spin their story into the pinched air”. From a first reluctant materialisation, “silent, accusing in the eyes”, springs a progeny of dusty sisters of the steppe. They are identified closely with the landscape, or at least belong to it with less ambiguity than the sad, hybrid mermaid belongs to the sea. Charm and seduction aren’t their game. In the first stanza, they are almost grammatically entwined with the paper-thin horizons forming the subject of the sentence in line six. They dance, like wind-blown dust or blizzards. But they also rise in the form of perambulating “walls … / stately and slow and sickening”.  Mirroring the first stanza, the second concludes with another magic threesome, a triad that this time evokes the city night, and a druggy “smell of sweet smoke and milk / and idling traffic”. In a potent image signalling earlier, perhaps state-sanctioned, violence, the daughters glide “silent over the glaze of blood frozen to the ground / around the wrestling palace”. The adverb silent occurs four times in this stanza, emphasising the tenacity and subtlety of the dérive. Although they’re clearly at home in the less salubrious recesses of the city (Ulaanbaatar, I presume) the dust-daughters seem on the whole neutral, neither motheringly protective nor witchily malignant. They are the embodiment of any natural order, even urbanisation. It seems right, though, that at the end of the poem they should be subsumed by the wind; the latter being imagined, after all, as a kind of sea, “towering, and tidal, and old”. So the daughters are both present and past: they are history itself. The final adjective finds their cosmic essence in its very sound. Sensations of pure, painful cold are evoked in the descriptions of the high-pitched, needle-like singing, the image of the “deep wind parting fur down to bone coloured skin”, and, by contrast, in the warm, relieving snapshots of the dogs basking by the sewer gratings and “the cafes where soldiers thaw their brows / over salt milk tea”. It would be interesting to compare Hooson’s topographical approach with that of Auden’s sestina, Paysage Moralisé. Auden’s term originated in a sometimes-questioned art-historical classification and the designation seems over-narrow for his beautiful, ominous “moralised landscape”. In the case of Hooson’s, the connection is looser still. Daughters of the Dust utters no sermons. Yet it gently validates equality of cultural values. It’s distinct from the average travel poem in not merely reflecting a different culture, however sensitively, but entering into its making. This is not appropriation but connection. Dips into phrasebook and guidebook are imaginatively earned, from the “corsac fox” and the “ger” (yurt) to the “zud” (severe, livestock-threatening winter weather) and the salty tea, for which I’ve found what I hope is an authentic recipe. Such words can seem like ideograms: they register as sharp new shapes or colour spots, but merge easily, on a second reading, into the poem’s texture. The imaginative engagement they’re part of forms the moral obverse of “othering” and divisive, east v west constructions. In narrative terms, the visitor not only receives but offers the host a share of the yarn, and the story becomes collaborative, as all real stories are.