Phil Hollom, who has died aged 102, was one of the pioneering generation of amateur ornithologists who came of age before the second world war, and were hugely influential afterwards. Following the end of the conflict, Hollom, along with men such as Max Nicholson and Richard Fitter, helped to turn birdwatching from a minority interest into the popular, mass participation leisure activity of today.Generations of birders cut their teeth on the "Peterson, Mountfort and Hollom" field guide, while the many thousands of people who take part in bird surveys also owe much to this quiet, modest man, who continued to be involved in ornithology well beyond retirement age. As well as pioneering field identification in Britain and Europe, Hollom later turned his attention to the ornithology of the Middle East, collaborating on a seminal field guide to the birds of that region.The second of five sons of Arthur and Kate Hollom, he was born in Bickley, Kent. His interest in birds began when, at the age of four, he was shown a song thrush's nest. Like most boys of his generation, he collected eggs and caught birds; pastimes frowned on today, but which taught him many of the field skills that would prove essential later in his career.  The Great Crested Grebe Enquiry in 1931 was one of the first national surveys of a single speciesBoarding at the King's school, Bruton, Somerset, he began studying birds more methodically, carrying out surveys on nesting swallows and becoming a qualified bird ringer. His activities caught the attention of the leading ornithologists of the day, including HF (Harry) Witherby and Nicholson, who enlisted the young Hollom to take part in one of the first national surveys of a single species, the 1931 Great Crested Grebe Enquiry.To carry out the survey, Hollom teamed up with a young man studying anthropology at Cambridge, Tom Harrisson. Later, Harrisson used the techniques he had learned surveying birds to launch the Mass-Observation scheme, documenting the day-to-day behaviour of ordinary people.Hollom and Harrisson took a highly professional approach to the grebe survey, which set the standards for those to follow. By the early 20th century, the great crested grebe had almost been wiped out in Britain by the fashion industry, which used their feathers and skins to make women's hats and clothing. The results of the survey revealed that numbers had bounced back spectacularly, rising from just 50 pairs to more than 1,200. It also led, in 1932, to the foundation of the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO), still the leading organisation in its field.Hollom's promising career as a young ornithologist was interrupted by the outbreak of war in 1939, when he was 27 years old. He joined the RAF and served in Coastal Command in western Scotland. In May 1943 he almost lost his life, when he and two other pilots were caught out by a sudden sea mist and crashed their planes into the sea. Hollom survived, but his three crew members, and those in one of the other aircraft, all died.After the war he returned to his day job at an export company, and later became a company secretary until he retired, aged 65, in 1977. Like other "amateurs" during this period, Hollom pursued a fruitful second career watching, studying and writing about birds; a career that produced some of the most important works of the period.First, in 1952, he condensed Witherby's mammoth five-volume Popular Handbook of British Birds, which lived up to its name by being reprinted many times. It was followed, eight years later, by a companion volume dealing with rare birds.In 1954 he teamed up with the American bird artist Roger Tory Peterson and the ornithologist and businessman Guy Mountfort, to produce the Collins Field Guide to the Birds of Britain and Europe – known simply as "Peterson, Mountfort and Hollom" or "PMH" after its authors.This became the leading field guide for the next few decades, and sold well over one million copies. The book showcased huge advances in bird identification, and also opened the eyes of British birdwatchers to the continent beyond our shores. Mountfort and Hollom followed this up with pioneering expeditions to Spain, Bulgaria and Jordan. In 1988, when Hollom was well into his 70s, he co-authored the field guide Birds of the Middle East and North Africa.Throughout his long and distinguished career, Hollom worked tirelessly behind the scenes, helping in 1959 to set up the British Birds Rarities Committee to assess records of rare birds in Britain, and joining the team that produced the nine-volume successor to Witherby's Handbook, The Birds of the Western Palearctic, from 1977 to 1994.Hollom's wife, Jenefer, whom he married in 1947, died in 2011. He is survived by a daughter, Diana, and two sons, Peter and Mark.• Philip Arthur Dominic Hollom, born 9 June 1912; died 20 June 2014