It’s fair to say that I’m not a morning person. I hate getting up. Breakfast telly drives me mad. I can’t stand morning smalltalk (apologies to everyone I’ve ever lived with). It feels like a violation of a basic human right that anyone should have to get up at six-anything; for the many of you up earlier, you will forever have my respect.Like an addict in rehab, I start bargaining as soon as the alarm goes off. “Just one more snooze, I promise this is the last one. I swear I’ll definitely, 100% get up after this one. Or the one after that.” Eventually my fear of being late will win out and I’ll move, in slow motion, a grunting, monosyllabic sloth to the bathroom, randomly mashing my fist against the wall in search of the light switch.Needless to say after this daily purgatory, breakfast doesn’t get much of a look in. On the exceptionally rare occasions that I’ve got enough time, I’ll make a bowl of porridge and a cup of green tea. I can count the number of times that’s happened this year on one hand. More likely is that I’ll just about manage to scoff some cornflakes or, if it’s a particularly cold morning, I’ll grab a bit of toast that I can eat in the car on the way to work.I know there’s an obvious solution: go to bed earlier and stop using the snooze button. But as my Netflix addiction shows no signs of letting up, I’ll probably be having breakfast in my bashed-up Citroën Saxo for a while to come. With that in mind, it would be nice to have something more imaginative than toast to enjoy on the morning commute.I’m not usually one for healthy baking; if you want to be healthy then don’t eat cake, have a bit of fruit instead. As this is breakfast, though, I want something more wholesome than the average teatime cake. Something that will give me energy for the morning without the guilt trip and sugar crash that usually accompanies my purchases from the canteen.Though the muffins and breakfast bars below are free from added fat and relatively low in sugar, there’s enough flavour packed in them to ensure you won’t be reaching for some honey to pour on top. Just don’t try to pass off the bars to anyone as healthy flapjacks. The puzzled look my nephew gave me when he tried them taught me that oats can’t be called flapjacks unless they’ve been swimming in golden syrup and butter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tamal Ray’s apple and orange wholemeal muffins. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianApple & orange wholemeal muffinsThese tasty little muffins contain quite a lot of acid from all the fruit juice and yoghurt. This gets the raising agent working very quickly as soon as it’s all mixed together; you can hear it fizzing if you get close enough to the bowl. To stop yourself ending up with stodgy, under-risen cakes you need to work quickly once you mix the wet and dry ingredients together and get them into the oven as soon as you can. They also seem to form a powerful bond with the paper cases they are baked in, so you might want to try greasing the cases before you spoon in the mix. A quick squirt from one of those cans of spray-on oil is the easiest way of greasing the cases without damaging them.Makes 122 large eggs100g light brown sugar2 oranges, zest & juice160g natural yoghurt1 Bramley apple peeled, cored and grated240g wholemeal flour2tsp ground cinnamon1.5tsp bicarbonate of soda40g sunflower seeds100g fresh or frozen raspberriesOptional - oil to grease the cupcake casesPreheat the oven to 200C/390F/gas 6. In a large bowl, mix together the eggs, sugar, orange zest and juice, yoghurt and grated apple. In a separate bowl sift together the flour, cinnamon, soda and then add in the sunflower seeds. If using the oil, grease 12 muffin cases in a muffin tray. Stir the dry ingredients into the wet and then, working quickly, half fill the muffin cases with batter, add in 2 or 3 raspberries and cover with the remaining batter. Bake for 15 minutes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tamal Ray’s breakfast bars. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianBreakfast barsTry not to think of these as diet bars: though they don’t contain any added refined sugar, the oats and fruit ensure they’re still packed with carbs. With any luck, though, all that fibre and protein should keep you full until lunchtime with a lot more good stuff than your average chocolate bar.Makes 124 overipe bananas240g natural yoghurt240g unsalted crunchy peanut butter175g dried cranberries125g whole blanched almonds240g whole oats50g pumpkin seedsPreheat the fan oven to 200C/390F/gas 6. Mash up the bananas in a large bowl and then add the yoghurt and peanut butter. Roughly chop up the almonds and stir into the mix along with the rest of the ingredients. Spread out the mixture into a 9-inch square baking tin lined with greaseproof paper and bake for 40 minutes. Allow to cool before cutting into 12 slices.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tamal Ray’s mocha biscotti Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianMocha biscottiI’ll be honest, there’s a bit more faff to making this than the other two recipes and though it has no added fat, you couldn’t really describe it as healthy. Its one major plus point as a breakfast food, though, is that having been baked twice, it will keep for up to a couple of months sealed in an airtight container. Perfect as a backup option if you’re not the most organised person.Makes 12-16 pieces4tsp instant coffee granules40g milk120g dark muscovado sugar2 large eggs225g plain flour40g cocoa powder1tsp baking powder100g hazelnuts125g dried cherriesPreheat the fan oven to 200C/390F/gas 6. Dissolve the coffee granules in the milk and set aside. You can warm the milk for 20 seconds in the microwave if you’re having trouble getting the granules to dissolve. Stir together the sugar and eggs, then add in the coffee mixture. In a separate bowl, mix together the flour, cocoa powder and baking powder and then add to the other ingredients along with the nuts and cherries. Stir together into a dough and then form into a flat loaf shape about 9x5 inches and 3/4 in thick. If you find the dough too sticky to handle then you can dust the outside with a little flour. Place on a baking sheet lined with greaseproof paper and sprinkled with a little flour. Bake for 25 minutes and then remove from the oven to cool. Turn the oven down to 170C/335F/gas 3. Using the sharpest bread knife you can find, carefully cut the loaf diagonally into slices approximately 1cm thick. If the loaf is still warm or your knife is blunt you will find into difficult to cut the slices without them breaking apart. Return the biscotti slices to the oven on a baking sheet and bake for 8 minutes, then flip them over and bake for another 5 minutes.