I’m still recovering from having watched the shootout between Justin Rose and Sergio García in the Masters. Through no fault of either man, Rose looks like the unusually staid manager of an English bank and García looks like the slightly bonkers getaway driver for a South American gang attempting to rob it.That the attempt was successful is surely a side issue. What mattered was that the two men were so near being equal in their powers that the whole battle was fought out in the mind. Finally, after hours of screaming tension, the match went to a sudden death play-off which was all over in a few quiet minutes. García took the first extra hole with such ease that for a moment I regretted having called my poetry collection Injury Time instead of Nail-Biting Slug-Fest On The Last Green.But that’s twice in a fortnight I’ve managed to get in a plug for my new book. The truth, I’m ashamed to say, is that I’m chortling to have got it done, and almost out, in the time available – ie, before I roll over and gasp my last. Aldous Huxley borrowed one of his best titles from Shakespeare: Time Must Have A Stop. That magic title hit me so hard when I was young that it led me to Shakespeare’s play. The relevant speech is in Henry IV, Part I. The dying Hotspur says that “Thought’s the slave of life, and life, time’s fool,” plus quite a lot else for a heavily armoured knight to think up at the point of death.Clive James: ‘Helen Hunt! Holy smoke, what an artist!’ Laurence Olivier, in 1946, multiplied the incongruity by making Hotspur stutter on his very last word. For would-be theatre critics (there are enough would-be actors) I can recommend what Kenneth Tynan says about that particular stutter in his beautiful first book He That Plays The King. Tynan had a stammer himself, by the way: an embarrassment for him because though it was only vestigial it gave people, me among them, the urge to finish sentences for him.A great era of theatrical verse-speaking died another of its deaths just now when Tim Pigott-Smith moved on. I knew him well enough to notice that he had to rein in his vocal resonance when he spoke to ordinary people, lest they drop to one knee and kiss his foot. But his rich voice wasn’t just an effect: it was an appreciation of the words. Producers loved that. When he wasn’t on stage or in studios he was in a sound booth reading out entire books, one after the other. It must have been a taxing schedule but I still disapprove of his early departure, and when I catch up with him I will tell him so.