It’s no small provocation in today’s leftist circles to give a straight white patriarch a microphone. The Wooster Group give Norman Mailer four.The Town Hall Affair, the stage and media group’s latest production, centers on Town Bloody Hall, a 1979 film by Chris Hegedus and DA Pennebaker that documents a notorious 1971 panel billed as “A Dialogue on Women’s Liberation” – less moderated than manhandled by Mailer, played here by two actors (Ari Fliakos and Scott Shepherd) with two mics each. This double-sized man-ego shares the stage with four second-wave feminists: the activist and organizer Jacqueline Ceballos; Germaine Greer (Maura Tierney); Jill Johnston, a radically free-associative columnist for the Village Voice (Kate Valk); and the New York intellectual Diana Trilling (played with deadpan archness by Greg Mehrten).Has politically correct culture gone too far? The Q&A portion of the event at New York’s Town Hall featured broadsides from the likes of Susan Sontag and Betty Friedan. “Women’s liberation betrays the poor!” cried a protester, as she was escorted out. When a male literary critic had the balls to ask what it was that liberated woman actually wanted, Greer told him, flat out, to relax: “Whatever it is they’re asking for, honey, it’s not for you.”But these antics were also argument: Johnston later wrote that she’d questioned appearing at all (and indeed several women, including Gloria Steinem, turned Mailer down), since the panel’s very existence seemed to allow that women’s liberation was an open question, not a social ultimatum. Greer met Mailer’s challenge head on: her opening statement was a 10-minute vivisection of the myth of the genius male artist. It was soon clear that Mailer’s idea of dialogue was more like a prizefight. “To be the center of any situation was, he sometimes thought, the real marrow of his bone,” wrote Mailer of himself in The Prisoner of Sex, his egomaniacal rejoinder to his feminist detractors, which took up some 50 pages in Harper’s. In 1969, Kate Millett’s Sexual Politics had excoriated Mailer at length, among Arthur Miller, DH Lawrence, and other literary alpha males, for his patriarchal descriptions of sex. In his essay, published the March before the April town hall, Mailer doubles down. Divorced for the fourth time, he spends two weeks in Maine doing all the housework, then phones his mistress. For Mailer, the battle of the sexes was dialectic, not absolute – but it was a battle he relished.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   No laughing matter … Norman Mailer and Germaine Greer in Town Bloody Hall. Photograph: UCLA Film & TV ArchiveIn Town Bloody Hall, Mailer is cultured, expansive, and condescending throughout. He refers to his peers as “lady writers” and “lady critics”. When Johnston’s genre-bending lesbian prose poem runs a little long, Mailer clips her off: “Jill, you’ve written your letter. Now mail it.” Yet in Wooster’s version, it’s Johnston who has the last word. The play ramps up with fragments of Johnston’s published postmortem of the evening, Tarzana from the Trees at Cocktails, and concludes with an excerpt from On A Clear Day You Can See Your Mother, the speech Mailer wouldn’t let her finish.Indeed, it’s Jill Johnston’s style that comes closest to Wooster’s own. “She was a nest-builder,” says Valk – pulling together bits of this and that, pun and poem, braiding present through past with a wicked wit. That much, at least, Mailer shared with his sparring partners. “There is an element of women’s liberation that terrifies me,” said Mailer from his podium in 1971. “It terrifies me because it’s humorless.” And such joyless absolutism, Mailer warned, would open society to totalitarian creep – from the left – until we’ve all got “scrambled brains”.Compared with the bona fide misogynist in the White House, Valk says, Mailer is “a mere chauvinist”. Mailer isn’t shocking so much as something of a well-read fossil. Yet for some, giving voice to Mailer still seems controversial. Could it be that – along with acculturated sexism and casual homophobia of the Mailer kind – the unequivocal defense of free speech is a notion best left in the 20th century? The debate today features not what is said, but who has the right to say it – or who is allowed to be present at all. “One of the characteristics of oppressed people,” said Greer at Town Hall, “is that they always fight among themselves.” It’s a sentiment no less true today for sounding quaint. And what does it mean that The Town Hall Affair feels so timely, so intense, and yet arrives largely verbatim from 1971?The rise and fall of Milo Yiannopoulos – how a shallow actor played the bad guy for money This is partly because the old battle lines have faded. In London, activists succeeded in shuttering an obscure gallery with “alt-right” sympathies. At Berkeley, students burned a light pole to keep a certain Breitbart writer from taking the stage. And at universities across the States, faculty who spent the 60s burning draft cards and bras now furrow their brows as their own students accuse them of insufficient sensitivity and demand their resignations. Even Germaine Greer, once on the right side of history, seems to have fallen into indefensible conservatism. In 2015, thousands signed a petition to revoke Greer’s appearance at Cardiff University, after she stuck to claims that trans women aren’t really women. In each of these cases, the issues are complex – yet too often the conversation takes the form of absolutes. Neither side finds any of this funny. As for the myth of the genius male artist: the Carl Andre retrospective at Dia Beacon met with protests over the unsolved 1985 death of Ana Mendieta in the couple’s apartment; it already faces a boycott at the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art (Moca). Which is why the Wooster Group’s choice of material comes close to roasting the present zeitgeist with an image of the radical past. When it comes to an uncomfortable idea, says director Elizabeth LeCompte, the impulse today is to “get rid of it. But that’s something that’s hard for artists, because we don’t like to get rid of things, we like to go into them. We like to explore the bad, the good, the beautiful, the ugly.” Which is why, although the last generation of television shows has made remarkable inroads toward equality, Adam Curtis claimed that the most relevant and unflinching document of today’s culture is South Park. In the past two seasons the show has not only defined PC culture as the gentrification of language, but has savaged a particular liberal taboo by mocking Caitlyn Jenner.People who are against oppression, Jill Johnston often wrote, should be against all oppression. Turns out it’s completely possible to be against all oppression, but not be against all oppression enough. The Town Hall Affair plays at REDCAT in Los Angeles until 1 April, and in San Francisco at Z Space from 6 April – 16 April