In the summer and autumn of 2012, Yiyun Li, the award-winning Chinese-American fiction writer, twice tried to kill herself. When she left hospital, everyone was full of advice: “You should do this or that; you must isolate yourself less.” But, she says, “there was a deeper argument I could have only with myself. I needed to dissect, to cut from the inside.” The result of that dissection is her first memoir, a brave, elusive set of essays entitled Dear Friend, from My Life I Write to You in Your Life.Li was once described at an event “as an example of the American dream”. In 1996, at the age of 23, she left China for the US, never having written a story, and ended up winning lucrative publishing deals and receiving a MacArthur “genius” grant. But it turns out that the dream was “as superficial and deceitful as an ad placed on the back of a bus”. During her breakdown she felt that “all the things in the world are not enough to drown out the voice of this emptiness that says: you are nothing”.When we meet at her hillside house in Oakland, California, she says the memoir isn’t an account of “before and after”: “in America especially they like a story in which you become triumphant or overcome a hurdle. But I don’t think I have a narrative arc.” Although the book looks back on a particular moment of “rapid unravelling”, her feelings of despair, she tells me, “are something that have always been and will always be there”. The opposite of a hackneyed tale of triumph over adversity, Dear Friend remains an attempt to make sense of what happened, and to address aspects of her life she has always evaded.Much of the memoir circles around Li’s desire, on leaving China, to be free of her controlling mother, of the dark Tiananmen-era days in Beijing, even of the Chinese language – and her realisation that, wherever she is, escape will never be possible. There can be no easy abandonment of mother, motherland or mother tongue. In pages of aphoristic, questioning prose, she considers her sense of self – attenuated at times – and the role of fiction-writing in her life, as both her consuming love and a necessary engagement with troubling emotions. “Uncharitably one writes in order to stop oneself from feeling too much; uncharitably one writes to become closer to that feeling self.”The title comes from an entry in one of Katherine Mansfield’s journals, and the memoir is in part a commentary on passages from some of Li’s favourite writers – Ivan Turgenev, Thomas Hardy, John McGahern, Elizabeth Bowen. On coming home from hospital, she says, she lost interest in writing fiction and for a year, “mostly I read. Just to pass the time. Going from day to day was difficult.” The books she picked up were journals, diaries, letters, the odd biography: “to live in other lives was a comfort”. Eventually, with the help of friends, she realised that conversing with the authors in essay form would help her untangle her thoughts – and enable her to make it clear to uncomprehending others that “one does not kill oneself because one ceases to love”. That Li has written such personal essays is remarkable, given her longing for self-effacement That Li has written such personal essays is remarkable, given that she regards invisibility as a “luxury” and, on taking up the writing of fiction, believed she could “will myself into a nonentity”, with her characters taking her place in the world. “A word I hate to use in English is I. It is a melodramatic word,” she writes in Dear Friend (in Chinese, grammar allows the use of “we” and “I” is rarely used “partly as a cultural thing: you don’t want to draw too much attention to yourself”). She also asks: “Why write autobiographically? There must be a belief in some kind of freedom.”Li has strongly resisted being tethered to her past. Over the years, in numerous interviews to promote her short stories and two novels, The Vagrants and Kinder Than Solitude, she has made a point of refusing connections between the bleakness of her characters’ lives in China and her own experiences. But that has changed: “I always used to say strongly that I was not an autobiographical writer, so strongly it was clearly suspicious,” she says. “Even without this book, I can now say that is just a lie.”Li mentions in the memoir that she has never in her life slammed a door, smashed a cup or plate or torn a piece of paper into pieces, actions born of “uncontrollable emotions”. She can sit perfectly still for hours, she tells me, and prefers it that way, as people rarely notice those who don’t move. In the build-up to her suicide attempts, “the more agitated I was internally, the calmer I remained physically”. Many of the authors she admires most, including William Trevor, deal in deception and self-deception, and truths hidden underneath the surface. In her fiction, horrific cruelty and blighted lives in China are described in poised, scrupulous prose: Li is well acquainted with both turmoil and the impulse to deflect and control.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Li in 2006, when A Thousand Years of Good Prayers won the Guardian first book award. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianDuring her months of acute mental illness, her dreams often took her back to Beijing, and Dear Friend is also a voyage to moments in her childhood in the 1970s and 80s. As we talk, it becomes clear that she first attempted suicide as a teenager in China. Li’s mother features prominently in the book, as a woman in equal measure callous and vulnerable; her daughter describes her love as “wrathful and possessive”. Our conversation keeps returning to her, in tones both humorous and rueful: “Family is a pattern; I’ve looked at it all my life, and I can’t change it.”When Li was growing up, her mother constantly accused her of being selfish, and told her she “deserved the ugliest death because I did not love her enough”. On the day Li got married, her mother announced “that I had left her with only the hope for my divorce”. It was, everyday, a kind of “torture”. The author’s very first memories, she tells me, are bound up with a fear that her father and older sister would run away, not being able to stand her mother, leaving her in Li’s care. As a child she showed signs of independence – “there’s a saying in Chinese: ‘she has too many thoughts in her mind’” – and her mother was resentful. Li was, despite this, the favoured daughter, “smarter and prettier, and … I look exactly like her”; her sister suffered even more, being told “every day that she was nothing, that she wasn’t loved”.“I am still amazed at how close a hold she has on me,” Li says of her mother. Though a teacher, she was the “child in the family” and an “innocent person … but innocent in the most dangerous and harmful way”. She showed signs, her daughter believes, of an undiagnosed mental disorder. And her father? He has expressed regret that he didn’t protect his family from such a destructive force, but is a “very traditional Chinese intellectual, passive, loving, hard-working. I’m so fond of him, but I recognise the weakness in his personality.” Both her parents still live in China, and I ask how they are likely to respond to the book: “I haven’t told my parents there’s a book coming out; I haven’t even told my sister. This is our family. I had this hospitalisation, but nobody talked about it; we all pretended it hadn’t happened. We’ll all pretend this book is not there – we are very good at that. Things will no doubt be picked up in the Chinese media, but my policy is: do not tell, do not ask.”Li’s father worked as a nuclear physicist, and her family lived in an apartment compound full of mathematicians and scientists – from the early 80s, within such professions, there was much talk of emigrating to America. Li, a maths prodigy, was determined to leave, and reading English was a quiet act of rebellion. She says she belonged to “the last generation to grow up in the China that was not prosperous”; it was also a generation that faced the regime’s crackdown following the Tiananmen protests: in 1991, before studying science at college, Li was made to spend a year in the army, where she sang “Communism Is So Good” and “The Song of the Red Women Warriors”, and had to report weekly that she had kept her love of the motherland.She has never wanted to be labelled a political writer: a “refusal to be defined by the will of others is my one and only political statement”. Yet Li also recognises that her fiction has as its background the upheavals of modern Chinese history. Her first novel, The Vagrants, set in a desolate provincial city shortly after the death of Mao, details the savage public execution of a dissident and the brief flowering of state-sponsored democracy that follows. “What marks our era,” one character says, “is the moaning of our bones crushed beneath the weight of empty words.” Kinder Than Solitude concerns the half‑intended murder of a Tiananmen protester, and her group of friends who go on to lead emotionally denuded lives. A child of educated parents is told in the novel that the key to success is “to forget what one ought not to remember … to recognise the unnecessariness of human emotions”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A military parade passes in front of Tiananmen Square, Beijing, China, in 2015. Photograph: Kevin Frayer/Getty ImagesLi left China for the US believing it to be a country in which she could forget and start again, “become anonymous, invisible”. She studied immunology at the University of Iowa, and remained a research scientist for a number of years. Having “fallen apart” in 2012, she began to wonder about the advantages of the road not taken – a career in science. It would have been “a safer life”, she tells me; she might have been calmer, less troubled. “Scientific work is so fact-based, it would inhibit this tendency of mine of going to extremes, going into other people’s lives.” But by chance Iowa was the home of a celebrated creative writing course and, long devoted to literature, Li changed direction. She quickly found mentors, and began to disappear into her work – living, she writes, “among the characters who did not know of my existence”.Whereas Nabokov considered not writing in his native language to be his “private tragedy”, Li has described it as her “private salvation”, not least because her mother doesn’t read English. Her new language gave her “psychological space”: she wasn’t accustomed to expressing her feelings in Chinese, and could now “explore thoughts … that I can’t in my native tongue”. In the title story of her collection A Thousand Years of Good Prayers, a daughter explains to a parent visiting her in the US that using English makes her “a new person”.She still speaks Chinese to her husband around the house, and trawls Chinese websites for information, but they “make me upset. The language has carried on from 1950s communist China.” What’s more, “my mother speaks like the Communist party; she speaks political language in everyday life. So if she wants to criticise me, she criticises me as the Communist party criticises America.” She laughs. “My mother is not the only one … but it’s best not to expose myself.” Li dreams and talks to herself in English; she does not want her books to be translated for publication in China. In Dear Friend, she writes that “my abandonment of my first language is … so deeply personal that I resist any interpretation”: it is “a kind of suicide”. My mother speaks like the Communist party. She criticises me as the Communist party criticises America Li attributes her 2012 breakdown in part to going off medication. She was at work on Kinder Than Solitude: “I never liked the feeling that I was medicated, and sometimes when you write you have a high energy, and you mistake it for being healthy. It was the most productive stage of the novel.” Her doctors have now warned her that this is “something I have to watch out for every day of my life”. But she doesn’t want simply to live with her feelings of depression – “I don’t like that term ‘to live with’”; she wants to understand them.The act of writing such a revealing memoir has itself required a “challenge to all my mental habits”, a fracturing of Li’s reticence and a facing up to her interior “melodrama”. Yet she feels protected from a fear of having exposed too much of herself and those close to her by the conviction that “I have written the words with precision”. Her husband hasn’t read the whole book, but on finishing a long excerpt in the New Yorker, he told her: “I would have got a lot of intellectual joy from it had I not been married to you.” Li laughs again. “It’s hard to be married to a writer.”She’s currently in the middle of a novel, and has finished two-thirds of a new collection of stories. She is “as preoccupied with Trump as anyone”. She surprised herself by telling one of her sons to be sure to say at school that his parents are immigrants. “I know I’m an immigrant, but I never say it, and because of Trump, for the first time, I want to say it. After I spoke to my son, I thought: this is such a big change in me.”Li wants people to know that she’s not fragile, and is comfortable talking about her illness: “I’m not a broken eggshell; I’m not Humpty Dumpty.” In its tender tributes to Bowen, Philip Larkin and others, her memoir is a hymn to reading; entering into someone else’s thoughts can be an antidote to loneliness. When she first came across Mansfield’s “Dear friend, from my life I write to you in your life”, she cried: at a time when reading was all she could do, the line assured her she was among friends. And, crucially, it also reminded her “why I do not want to stop writing”.• Dear Friend, from My Life I Write to You in Your Life is published by Hamish Hamilton. To order a copy for £12.74 (RRP £14.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.• In the UK, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14.