It was nearly named after a transmitter. When the BBC was looking for a name for its new music and arts radio station in 1946, for one epoch-changing moment, the Droitwich Programme was a contender. However, a compromise name was found; as the third BBC radio service after the Light and Home services, it was called the Third Programme. It was born at 6pm on 29 September 1946, and its first cries were a light-hearted guide on How to Listen, a talk on world affairs, Bach harpsichord music, Monteverdi madrigals and a new work by Benjamin Britten. Something old, something new, something surprising.'We’re too darned modest about what we do': Radio 3 boss Alan Davey's typical day In that week’s Radio Times, the BBC’s director general, Sir William Haley, had set out the Third’s stall to the nation: “presenting the great classical repertoire in music and drama, and so far as they are broadcastable, in literature and the other arts … it will seek every evening to do something that is culturally satisfying and significant.”It was the year that everything changed for the arts in Britain. Despite the physical and mental rubble of the second world war, and the apparently never ending period of postwar austerity and rationing, the Attlee government had asked JM Keynes to spread interest in culture across the nation, through the foundation of an Arts Council. The 1944 Education Act had raised the school leaving age and encouraged adult education. Theatres, concert halls and opera houses had reopened, so the time seemed ripe to bring the arts to the nation. Keynes had a clear if idiosyncratic notion of what constituted culture: it was the western canon of music; it was highbrow and it was not American. His battle cry was “Death to Hollywood” – to the Americanisation of culture through movies and popular music which had such a hold on people of all classes.The Third Programme shared some of this distaste for popular culture, and expected its audience to come prepared with a level of prior knowledge. For this it was both admired and mocked. One contemporary cartoon showed two working men sitting by the fire listening to the radio. One says to the other: “The pizzicato for the double basses in the coda seems to me to want body, Alf.” Unfair, even then, but you can see how a reputation for chilliness grew up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Petroc Trelawny broadcasts BBC Radio 3 Breakfast Show live from the Southbank, London. Photograph: Ellis O'Brien/BBCYet from almost the first, while classical music was crucial, it was just one part of the mix. Jazz, poetry and drama were at least as core to the schedule, with new commissions helping the career of the up and comingSamuel Beckett, Harold Pinter, Joe Orton and Dylan Thomas. From the beginning, the Third and its successor from 1967, BBC Radio 3, had a far more promiscuous and pioneering approach to what constituted culture than its caricatures might suggest. The new, the shocking, the obscure have always rubbed shoulders with the established classics – which themselves were once shocking – quite happily. What changed long ago, though, is the attitude to the audience: love of music and culture, and a sense of curiosity, have replaced the need to come equipped with technical knowledge. Although we do try to help with that with our range of online resources.While Radio 3 is the name of a radio station, it is also shorthand for a complete cultural nerve centre that is unique in the UK and globally. Our orchestras and choirs give hundreds of concerts a year, with a repertoire ranging from Bach to Weir with much in between. They act as the bedrock for the BBC Proms, now easily the biggest classical music festival in the world, and the station was recently honoured by a Gramophone special achievement award for services to classical music. It broadcasts from venues all over the country, giving a wider reach to the great orchestras and ensembles of the UK.Ever since the coronation, commentators have been predicting the death of radio. It was going to be doomed first by TV, then hi-fi, then the internet and now by streaming services. But radio remains a portable, high quality sound‑delivery system; with a tiny investment in equipment, listeners can enjoy a curated choice of both the new and familiar. There is every sign, judging from the last Rajar radio audience figures including our own, which were the highest in five years, that there is plenty of life left in this oldest of broadcasting technologies.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sidonie Goossens and Igor Stravinsky rehearse a concert for the Third Programme in 1958.What Radio 3 does is a great example of using public money – the licence fee – as venture capital to expand and enhance classical and other music and push boundaries in words and sound. It is investment in the future of culture and an exploration of the human condition as well as a celebration and investigation of past pioneers. And it allows us to surprise and take the audience to places they never knew they may like. Yes, some of it seems niche, but that’s how innovation starts.The proliferation of social media, and of channels that only give you what you are comfortable with, has any number of unintended consequences. In politics, it can ensure the voter is never confronted by an opinion they don’t like. And in broadcasting, it could lead programme makers to presume that only familiar and light music with a short time span will bring in the audience. Radio 3 has over the years taken a different path. It is based on a belief that some things need to be presented in their context, in their own time, to be fully appreciated, no matter how long it takes – “slow radio” if you like. From the proliferation of literature and music festivals across the country, it is clear that there is a thirst for new, friendly experiences. But also an appreciation that, like everything else, in music and culture you get out what you put in.What Radio 3 does best was once unusual and is now almost unique in broadcasting. It offers comprehensive coverage of the arts, especially music, with a guarantee that what you hear will have been chosen and introduced by enthusiastic experts in their art form, not by algorithm. That includes finding and promoting new and unknown talent, and ensuring that the Proms remains the biggest single commissioner of new work from classical musicians of all genres, with every piece broadcast on Radio 3. It is marking its 70th anniversary this year with 70 new commissions of speech and music, live broadcasts and special performances. I imagine this selection will puzzle and infuriate as many as it will delight. In fact I rather hope it will, for the loyal and the new audience share one thing in common – their belief that personal tastes and canons of music don’t exist in aspic. The most important quality in our broadcast choices is not safety: it’s quality.John Reith’s dictum for the whole BBC – “give the public slightly better than it now thinks it likes” – might have a whiff of loftiness to some, but as an ideal for public service broadcasting it’s still hard to beat. For 70 years now, this network and its orchestras have been more innovative and less hidebound than their reputations deserve. This great cultural achievement of the postwar era is still going strong. And it’s all yours.Sound Frontiers: BBC Radio 3 live at the Southbank Centre runs from 23 September until 7 October. southbankcentre.co.uk