Monday Calm Down, Dear, the festival of feminism, moves from Camden People’s theatre to the Bike Shed in Exeter, with performances from Imogen Butler-Cole, Louise Orwin and others. Belarus Free Theatre’s Burning Doors, a piece about persecuted artists featuring Pussy Riot’s Maria Alyokhina, is at Contact in Manchester. Katherine Soper’s Wish List, about life in Britain on zero-hours contracts and benefits, is not to be missed at the Royal Exchange in Manchester. The London horror festival aims to send a shiver down your spine at Islington’s Old Red Lion.TuesdayThe Dublin theatre festival continues with Donegal, a new musical play from Frank McGuinness about a family who are Irish country-music royalty. Sean O’ Casey’s The Plough and the Stars is reimagined in the epic four-and-a-half-hour show It’s Not Over, which “refuses to commemorate” the Easter Rising of 1916. At Shed 36 in Dundee, Ben Harrison and Grid Iron are investigating Scotland’s oil industry in Crude. The terrific and very funny Swedish circus two-hander, Attached, is at the Lawrence Batley in Huddersfield. The contribution of the Chinese Labour Corps during the first world war is celebrated in Project New Earth, curated by David KS Tse at the Black-E in Liverpool tonight and on tour. Cathy, written by Ali Taylor, is inspired by Ken Loach’s Cathy Come Home and is the latest forum play from Cardboard Citizens. It’s at the Pleasance in London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inua Ellams stars in An Evening with an Immigrant. Photograph: Oliver HolmsWednesdayJulia Taudevin’s explosive gig-theatre show, Blow Off, is back at the Traverse in Edinburgh. Inua Ellams’s autobiographical storytelling show, An Evening with an Immigrant, is at the Cube Microplex in Bristol. The challenges faced by people in rural areas are highlighted in Matt Hartley’s Here I Belong which goes out on tour from Bromfield Village Hall in Shropshire. Plymouth’s Outpost festival at the Royal William Yard has a cracker in Eurohouse, a two-hander about the EU’s founding ideals. Platform, Glasgow’s ongoing Made in Easterhouse festival continues with Sarah Hopfinger’s intergenerational Wild Life. Moby Dick! The Musical was a disaster in the West End in 1992 but can the New Union, in Southwark, make it swim? Isley Lynn’s sexual odyssey, Skin a Cat, opens a new fringe space, the Bunker, near London Bridge. ThursdayInspired by Victor Hugo’s The Man Who Laughs, The Grinning Man is a new musical at Bristol Old Vic directed by Tom Morris and written by Carl Grose. Enda Walsh’s still fresh Disco Pigs, the play about two Cork City teenagers that made his name, is at the Salberg in Salisbury. Bobby Baker’s Roving Diagnostic Unit, which considers modern psychiatric diagnosis, is at the William Morris Gallery in Walthamstow. Friday and the weekendTwenty-five artists take over London’s Rich Mix, the Yard and Toynbee Studios for three days of rowdy performances in Steakhouse Live: Longer Wetter Faster Better. Bryony Kimmings and Brian Lobel’s A Pacifist’s Guide to the War on Cancer begins in the National Theatre’s Dorfman. Pickled Image are at Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff with their latest, Coulrophobia, about two clowns on a quest for freedom. Idle Motion’s Shooting With Light, about the life of a female war reporter, is at Cast in Doncaster on Friday and then at the Hub in Leeds on Sunday. Hampstead theatre stages the UK premiere of Tony Kushner’s The Intelligent Homosexual’s Guide to Capitalism and Socialism with a Key to the Scriptures. In Liverpool at the Unity, the wonderful Josette Bushell-Mingo explores a remarkable artist’s legacy in Nina – a Story About Me and Nina Simone. On Sunday, the first UK festival of true-life storytelling, Tellit, kicks off at venues all over London.