Does London really need a branch of America’s vast multi-venue, multi-channel Smithsonian museum? Even the Smithsonian seems to be having second thoughts. It has been in talks to open a new venue at London’s former Olympic Park and was due to announce a decision this week, but it now wants to find out more about fundraising and the proposed new building before going ahead. I think it should change course entirely. Of all cities in the world, London seems the most bizarrely inappropriate and ill-favoured for a mission of US cultural imperialism … sorry, I mean enlightenment. The Smithsonian should look at the Guggenheim Museum’s success in Europe and learn from that. When Frank Gehry designed a groundbreaking European Guggenheim, it was not in an established art centre but in Bilbao, at that time a struggling city still scarred by the Franco years and with a reputation for violent nationalist politics. The Guggenheim has been a breath of fresh air in Bilbao and helped to transform the immediate vicinity as well as taking its place as a major European art destination.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Transformative … the Guggenheim museum in Bilbao, Spain. Photograph: Kenneth Garrett/National Geographic / Getty ImagesLondon is not Bilbao. It is London. That is to say, a capital city whose museums are second to none. Visitors come from all over the world to visit the British Museum, the Natural History Museum, Tate Modern. Is there really room for an American museum, however famous, in a city with its own renowned galleries and collections?Fit for McQueen? London's big three museums exhibit Victorian era values It’s not just that London has good museums but that it is better at the very things at which the Smithsonian is supposed to excel. There are19 branches of this vast institution in the US, but when most people picture the Smithsonian, we think of its Museums of Science and Technology on the National Mall in Washington DC: the Wright brothers plane! The Apollo 11 capsule!I was certainly excited to see these objects when I got the chance to visit the Washington heart of the Smithsonian empire, but I was sorely disappointed by the standards of display, public education, and even shops and catering at these famous museums. The National Museum of Natural History is especially dismal. Its building is poorly designed and a bit cramped. When I was last there in 2012, the fossil hall completely failed to communicate the excitement of its astonishing treasures. This part of the museum is currently closed for renovation until 2019 and I can’t say I am surprised. London’s Natural History Museum has the advantage of a great neo-romanesque Victorian building and a collection that goes back to Mary Anning’s finds at Lyme Regis in Dorset and Charles Darwin’s specimens gathered from his voyage on the Beagle. Yet the most renowned dinosaurs – such as tyrannosaurus rex – were found in the US and the fossils of these creatures can be found in the Smithsonian. In its National Fossil Hall, I saw a T-rex locked in combat with a triceratops – and both were real skeletons. By contrast, many of London’s dinosaur skeletons, including Dippy the diplodocus, are casts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unbeatable exhibits … the US Space Shuttle Enterprise at the Smithsonian’s National Air and Space Museum in Chantilly, Virginia. Photograph: Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty ImagesHow can it be more exciting to see a replica at London’s Natural History Museum than a real dinosaur in Washington? Because London’s museums now have superior style and authority. That is not a given. If I was writing this in the 1980s I would probably be full of reverence for the Smithsonian. Yet in recent decades, London has thought so hard and creatively about how to display collections and engage visitors I felt stuck in a timewarp as I walked around Washington’s famous collections.This is even true of the spectacular jewel of the Smithsonian, the National Air and Space Museum. Its exhibits cannot be beaten. No other nation has put astronauts on the moon so nowhere else can you see the charred underside of the capsule in which Neil Armstrong fell back to earth. Yet this gallery is just a huge hanger full of (admittedly great) stuff. It does little to display its treasures in illuminating ways. Why was it so underwhelming to see the Wright brothers’ plane? There was an ordinariness to its display, a lack of inspiration. Museums are now part of Britain's pernicious north-south divide Again, London does more with fewer artefacts. The Science Museum in South Kensington recently had a subversive hit with Cosmonauts, an exhibition in which space tech from the Soviet era was showcased better than the Smithsonian’s victorious US space race relics. This is not an anti-American argument. The Smithsonian’s natural history galleries pale not only beside South Kensington, but also when compared to the grandeur of New York’s American Museum of Natural History – an exemplary museum. Of course, the Smithsonian has many more branches and subjects. Its divisions range from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden to the Cooper Hewitt Design Museum. Yet even the Hirshhorn in its bizarre circular building feels a bit out of time and certainly no Tate Modern. The behemoth of Bankside is yet another reason London does not need a museological Marshall plan. Perhaps other British cities do need such cultural investment, however. Maybe here lies one answer to the growing discontent with London’s domination of the UK art and museum scene. How about a Smithsonian in Bradford, Cardiff or Belfast? Just as Bilbao welcomed – and has benefited from its Guggenheim – perhaps a British city that is not London can find cultural glitter in a partnership with the Smithsonian. Come to Hull to see Dorothy’s shoes – now that might be interesting. 