Why the Rogue One: A Star Wars Story reshoots might not be a bad thing Can Rogue One turn around all that bad buzz about extensive reshoots and director Gareth Edwards taking the movie way too far to the dark side? In the absence of Jedi mind tricks, there’s nothing like rolling out Darth Vader to bring the fan base back on side, and the new issue of Entertainment Weekly also goes into detail about the band of rebel grunts whose mission in the movie is to steal the plans to the first Death Star. Here are a few vital snippets we managed to glean. And don’t forget, many Bothans (whatever they are) died to bring you this information.James Earl Jones will return to voice Darth Vader      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Darth Vader in 1983’s Return of the Jedi. Photograph: Cine Text/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarAnd a million voices cried out in joy ... etc, etc. The 85-year-old American screen legend will reprise his role as Emperor Palpatine’s right-hand man for the first time since, well, Star Wars: Rebels last year. But this is different, surely. Vader in a live action movie, snakelike breathing and shiny, black beatle-like carapace bearing down on some unfortunate rebel is something few Star Wars fans will be keen to miss, even if this is likely to be an extended cameo. At this point in the proceedings, we’re told, the nefarious Sith Lord will be a shadowy background figure whose standing in the nascent Imperial hierarchy is yet to be fully understood. Which is presumably why that idiot in 1977’s Star Wars thought it might be OK to call him a silly old wizard.And he’ll be holding Ben Mendehlson’s leashEntertainment Weekly (@EW)Meet #RogueOne's terrifying villian, Director Orson Krennic in the newest #StarWars: https://t.co/IFJzqr228L pic.twitter.com/gtRY0jdbrWJune 22, 2016Do Rogue One reshoots spell the end for Hollywood's dark side? The Australian character actor is not playing Grand Moff Tarkin from the original trilogy, but he might as well be, except for one vital difference. While Tarkin was heavily implied to be higher in rank than the evil Sith Lord in 1977’s Star Wars, Mendehlson’s director Orson Krennic will most definitely be in thrall to Vader in the new entry: EW describes Luke Skywalker’s robot dad as Krennic’s “enforcer”. As for the Imperial noob, we’re told it’s his job to take down the Rebel Alliance with an army of freaky-looking Deathtroopers. Whether these will be any more effective that their bumbling Stormtrooper predecessors has yet to be confirmed.Jyn Erso’s back story has been swiped from Suicide Squad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Felicity Jones as Jyn Erso in Rogue One. Photograph: PRFelicity Jones’ young renegade will have her sentence for unknown crimes commuted if she helps the Rebel Alliance complete an impossible mission. Sound familiar? That’s because it’s pretty much the exact same plot we’ve been hearing so much about in DC Films’ upcoming supervillain smackdown. We’ve also learned Danish actor Mads Mikkelsen (of Hannibal fame) will play Erso’s estranged father, described as an Oppenheimer-type figure who holds vital information that both the Rebels and the Empire are desperate to get hold of. Might it be the secret to blowing up the so-called “ultimate power in the universe” with only a few teeny tiny ships?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Force Awakens-style demi-Jedis are back Entertainment Weekly (@EW)Meet #RogueOne's warrior Chirrut Imwe in the new #StarWars: https://t.co/guinYqf6f6 🙏 pic.twitter.com/HGhaDi9iwuJune 22, 2016Remember how Maz Kanata told Rey she was “no Jedi” but still knew the Force in JJ Abrams’ megahit space opera reboot-come-sequel? Well, it sounds like we’ll be getting more mysterious light-side apostles who are unable to do any of the actual cool Jedi stuff in Rogue One. One of these is blind warrior monk Chirrut Imwe (Donnie Yen), who sounds a bit like Daredevil, in that he’s completely blind but could still take out most martial opponents with both hands tied behind his back. Imwe’s sidekick is Baze Malbus (Jiang Wen), who is fiercely loyal despite having no idea what his good buddy is on about when it comes to all this Jedi nonsense. Fingers crossed, both Chinese actors will have been given roles that are integral to the plot this time: Lucasfilm owner Disney has a poor record when it comes to parachuting in stars from the world’s most populous nation just to keep local audiences happy.Droids will probably still be the comic relief#Cine+ (@cinemasTV)K-2S0 un droid considerado la parte opuesta de C3PO. No tiene ningún interés en la relación humano-cyborg #RogueOne pic.twitter.com/AHJ25XgSdmJune 22, 2016One factor that seems to have been entirely forgotten when it comes to Rogue One is that this will be the first ever Star Wars live-action movie without C-3PO and R2D2 to keep the funnies coming at times of tension. So we should probably take the description of “security droid” K-2SO as the “complete opposite” of everyone’s favourite loquacious protocol droid with a large pinch of Tatooinian salt. After all, Joss Whedon favourite Alan Tudyck, who’s doing the voice, is mostly known for his comedic talents. Edwards tells EW the robot “doesn’t give a shit about what you think” and “doesn’t fully check himself before he says things”, which sounds like a recipe for laughs to us.Hardcore fans have met Forest Whitaker’s radical rebel beforeStar Wars (@starwars)10 things you need to know about #RogueOne's extremist Rebel, Saw Gerrera from @amy_geek. https://t.co/MFqjwZ8X4D pic.twitter.com/yN8fG6fM0pJune 23, 2016Last seen warning Erso to dial it down a little in the Rogue One trailer, Whitaker will be playing Saw Gerrera, a character introduced in the Star Wars: Clone Wars animated TV show, the first of its kind to ever cross over to a mainstream Star Wars movie.The idea here is to give fans one last dose of George Lucas goodness before the space opera legend walks away from the long-running saga for good. Though we have to wonder whether anyone thought to remind Edwards and his team that Lucas came up with the concepts for Jar Jar Binks, Watto the Toydarian and those fricking guys from the Trade Federation a lot more recently than he dreamt up Han Solo and Vader.Gerrera is described as the kind of Rebel even the Rebels can’t get their head around, a loose cannon with nothing to lose who’s just as likely to mess up the mission as he is to complete it. As a younger man, the Onderonian resistance fighter trained under Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi for a fight against the droid army that was trying to take over their world.“Consider him kind of a battered veteran who leads a band of Rebel extremists,” Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy told EW. “He’s on the fringe of the Rebel Alliance. Even [they] are a little concerned about him.”