I might be missing something, but while many inside entertainment appear to be very pessimistic about the effect of Brexit on their chances for obtaining investment, a huge opportunity for the UK film and TV industry is being overlooked.Less cash, fewer movies, meltdown: how Brexit may affect British film As a British film and TV producer working in Hollywood, I wanted to offer a contrary view from the outside: your industry looks like a very attractive investment, and international funds will be queuing to get in.The feedback I am getting is that the US and many other international investors, far from parachuting in aid to a struggling sector, will now be actively seeking to fill the perceived vacuum left by any reduction in EU funding.I’m no big Hollywood player, but since Friday I have been contacted by many industry movers and studio execs wanting insight about how they might be able to benefit from direct investment in to the UK. It’s only a straw poll, but Americans are very enthusiastic about the potential for UK film and TV.This is not a thinkpiece questioning the future of the film business; this is a naked call to arms. If you have a movie or TV series that relied on EU funding that you think is being withdrawn due to Brexit, seize an opportunity. Seek others like me who are bullish and champing at the bit to fund international projects.For the last six months, I have been part of a consortium to create a film investment fund targeting productions that require $500K to $3m in full or partial funding. We intended to roll out the fund in January 2017 in Los Angeles, but the moment that the result of the referendum was announced, I suggested that we move the fund to London and launch it immediately.Another and possibly more important advantage of Brexit is that the UK will be able to use its independence to create the most attractive environment in the world for film-makers. Emulating the strategies of US states like Louisiana and New Mexico – which offer huge tax credits to productions – the UK can become the first choice of location for many producers. Arguably, the film and TV industry in the UK is in its strongest position ever to lobby the next government to insist on robust tax incentives for the film industry. We already have the most revered crews in the world, and they make many of the huge summer blockbusters. Now we also have a chance to be the hub of the world’s independent film market. I am very excited about the future of the UK film industry.But, like I said, I might be missing something.