On the day John Prine plays his homecoming show in Chicago, a sea of baseball fans flood every downtown artery to celebrate the unthinkable: a World Series win by the Chicago Cubs, their first in 108 years. A parade, a rally, and then hours of unhinged, but peaceful, revelry fill the streets as Prine, who transitioned from a local mailman to become one of America’s most beloved songwriters, watches below from his hotel window. It is not lost upon him that the victory anthem of Cubs fans everywhere is Go, Cubs, Go, written by Steve Goodman, his friend and musical compatriot who came up with him through the Chicago folk clubs in the late 1960s but who died of leukemia in 1984. Goodman’s song – simple and cheerful – is now Chicago’s unofficial anthem, sung at the end of games, in the streets and neighborhood bars, and even by Cubs superfan Bill Murray last weekend during the opening of Saturday Night Live.“It gives me goosebumps on top of goosebumps to hear that,” he says. That night at the Chicago Theatre he and his band enter the stage to the song blasting out of the house speakers. “What a week to be home,” he announces from the stage. “I’m not sure that Stevie didn’t put this whole week together.”Prine is well aware he is a survivor. He turned 70 last month and, following two lengthy bouts of cancer on his neck and lung, he is swiftly moving into a golden era of productivity. A new album, For Better, Or Worse, is a series of traditional country duets featuring some of the most prominent female names in music today – Miranda Lambert, Kacey Musgraves, Amanda Shires, Susan Tedeschi and Alison Krauss, among others, as well as his longtime singing partner Iris DeMent and wife Fiona. He is also writing a new album of original songs he wants to record, release, and tour on, all within next year. On top of that, his management and record label is now the family business led by Fiona and son Jody Whelan. They’re responsible for convincing Prine to record extra songs for the vinyl reissue of In Spite of Ourselves, his first collection of duets from 1999 that also happens to be his best-selling album to date.“They knew I wouldn’t do another one, that’s how stubborn I am. But they said [In Spite of Ourselves] would only fit three sides of a double album and I only had to do five or six duets. I said, ‘Hey, that would be great. I know five or six girls I could sing with.’ That’s how it started,” he says.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Like Tom Waits, Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen, Joni Mitchell and other hallmark songwriters of his generation, Prine’s song catalog is vast, but he has found a way to narrow it down to a set that keeps focus on the central themes of his work: the rejection of artifice, the mystery of ordinariness, the humor in the mundane. In this way, Prine admits he is resolutely midwestern, even though, at 33, he relocated to Nashville, where he lives today. “I don’t feel I could write songs about being a southerner. I’ve still got that midwestern mentality. That’s where I go back to as a touchstone for my writing,” he says. “They understand me in Wisconsin and Iowa.”Indeed, unlike his peers, Prine feels more accessible. His characters fish, drink, work dead-end jobs, but are not particularly enflamed more than they are accustomed. The tenderness of Hello in There, which follows a young couple to old age, may clash with the random violence of Six O’Clock News, but both are presented as inevitabilities that, one day or another, we all will confront.Prine is revered by songwriters of his generation – from the usual suspects like Bob Dylan and Kris Kristofferson to unexpected ones like Roger Waters of Pink Floyd. He lifted the melody of Sam Stone for the opening track to The Final Cut, and at the Newport Folk Festival last year compared Prine to Woody Guthrie and Pete Seeger. In recent years Prine’s music has been a magnet for the new Nashville vanguard, including Jason Isbell, who shares a New Year’s Eve bill with Prine at the Ryman Auditorium, and Lambert who, at the 2010 Country Music Awards refused to sing her latest single but instead played a blazing, rocked-up cover of Prine’s That’s the Way That the World Goes Round. Prine was watching that night and remembers turning to his wife, amazed. “I like it when somebody takes one of my songs and mixes it up but doesn’t take the essence out of it. I’ve heard people do it down to the letter but miss the whole point of the song,” he says. “But she got it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest With age comes award metal. In September Prine traveled to the John F Kennedy presidential library and museum in Boston to pick up the PEN Song Lyrics of Literary Excellence award, which put him in company with Chuck Berry, Randy Newman and Leonard Cohen. He is aware of the criticism Bob Dylan received after news broke that he had won this year’s Nobel prize for literature, but doesn’t think songwriters should be excluded from the “L” word.“If I wanted to be a poet, I’d write poetry. I know what poetry is. I’m not writing poetry, I’m writing song lyrics. Whatever the subject is, I’m trying to write as well about that subject as I possibly can but still within the confines of a song. I’m not trying to put my words down as a poem set to music. To me, that’s a different thing,” he says. “But I like the idea of it being accepted.”Prine grew up in Maywood, a blue-collar community near Chicago’s western edge. His parents were southerners from western Kentucky and, after learning guitar from an older brother, he grew up wanting to please Bill, his father, with songs from back home, primarily Hank Williams and the Carter Family. “I mainly learned to play the guitar and write so I could sing for my dad. I’d sit in the kitchen. He didn’t have to go out to a club to hear me,” he says. “I knew [Hank Williams songs] backwards and I memorized the stage patter of the live records. He would get real tickled about that.”In September, Prine revisited his self-titled debut album from 1971 during a special performance of the entire sequence at the Station Inn, a small bluegrass club in Nashville. He wrote those songs during a stint in the army and then later upon his return home where he worked as a mailman by day while working the open mic nights in Chicago’s Old Town neighborhood at night. “I didn’t realize it would take me back so much, to do the songs in order like that. I can’t believe I had all these sad songs on one side of the record. Anybody who turned the record over must have been brave,” he says.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The performance bolstered the argument that some songs have relevancy deserving of literature. Two of the songs, Your Flag Decal Won’t Get You Into Heaven Anymore and Sam Stone, are products of the Vietnam conflict, when blind patriotism was a veiled protest against the counterculture and returning veterans battled PTSD and addiction. Both are just as pertinent today. Flag Decal could just as well be about Trump followers, he says. As for Sam Stone, he figured it would be marginalized as “one more Vietnam song” once the war was over, but soon discovered the song rebounding time and again because its story was universal for veterans of any war. “Now if I didn’t sing that, people would think I was a traitor,” he says. “That song doesn’t wear on me.”For Better, Or Worse is a break for Prine to showcase the country songs he loves and to give his scruffy voice – a result of his surgeries – contrast with the smooth vocals of his vocal partners. The songs are playful, conversational, and are arranged so the woman’s perspective has the upper hand. Highlights include Mental Cruelty, originally between Buck Owens and Rose Maddox but here sung by Prine and Kacey Musgraves. Iris DeMent similarly bickers with Prine on two songs originally pairing Ernest Tubb and Loretta Lynn. Other songs that were originally arranged for one singer – Color of the Blues by George Jones and Cold, Cold Heart by Hank Williams – are redone for two, featuring Susan Tedeschi and Miranda Lambert respectively. The reconstruction is seamless. All in all, the collection veers between feuds and love affairs, making it a perfect country album.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It will serve as a detour until next year when Prine expects to release his first collection of original songs in 12 years. He says that the writing is moving slowly, although a theme has already emerged. “They seem to be about disjointed relationships, where people are trying to communicate and it’s becoming more and more difficult to communicate what used to be taken almost for granted. People are feeling either misunderstood or they’re not saying what they really, really feel. For some reason that’s what’s coming out,” he says. “I’m not sure if I’m as good of a radar as I used to be, but I’m picking up on something.”He wants the songs to be the kind he can slip alongside his classics and keep singing long after the record has made its rounds. So he’s being patient. “As long as I’ve been writing, I have no idea what I’m doing. I’m always starting out brand new. I couldn’t say to anybody ‘this is what you do to write a song.’ I don’t know where they come from and I don’t know where they don’t come from,” he says.“But I do know when I’m not writing, because then I’m just making things up. It might come out well crafted, but it wouldn’t come from my heart.”