In early 1979, photographer Jim Jocoy attended an auction at the Peoples Temple in San Francisco. More than 900 of its worshipers had died in a mass suicide-murder which came to be known as the Jonestown massacre, led to their deaths by activist-turned-doomsday cultist Jim Jones. When Jocoy saw some of the followers’ left-behind luggage, he saw a symbol of Jones’ “hollow, empty promise”, and took a picture. “Jonestown, the assassinations – they worked into the fabric of San Francisco, and unraveled its tapestry,” Jocoy says. “It was quite gloomy, that summer of hate, and punk was the soundtrack.”The image is in Order of Appearance, a new book of Jocoy’s photography from the San Francisco punk scene of the late-1970s. It’s an intimate, diaristic view of an incipient youth subculture as Jocoy’s punk subjects primp and sneer while the city crumbles around them. There’s a yellow Volkswagen upturned in the street, freshly applied blue hair-dye, and allusions to the imminent outbreak of Aids.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jim Jocoy, the photographer behind Order of Appearance. Photograph: Judith Bell/Image courtesy Casemore Kirkeby Gallery, San FranciscoJocoy’s pictures show punk rock, not yet codified, rioting against what author David Talbot termed San Francisco’s turbulent “Season of the Witch”. But at the time, Jocoy’s photographic practice compensated for a “basically shy, introverted disposition”, he says. “A camera let me gather all these creatures of the night like some kind of entomologist; they were my exotic bug collection.”Fine-art photo book publisher TBW unveils Order of Appearance (which follows Jocoy’s 2002 book of more straightforward punk portraiture, We’re Desperate) at the Los Angeles Art Book Fair which starts on 23 February. TBW’s Paul Schiek culled the book’s images from hundreds of unseen color slides and selected Jocoy’s most emotionally suggestive captures. “There were pictures of the Sex Pistols, the Clash – I didn’t want those,” Schiek says – Jocoy’s picture of Sid Vicious is arguably his most well-known work. “I was interested in the quieter, softer moments.”Order of Appearance is one of many books and exhibitions in recent years to reveal how San Francisco’s crisis-stricken late-1970s era colored and politicized its nascent punk scene, which is sometimes considered a mere footnote compared to its neighboring scenes. While early punk movements in Los Angeles and New York are lavishly chronicled, the contours and complexity of early San Francisco punk are only now coming into focus. Ruby Ray’s 2013 book From the Edge of the World, which collects her photography for the scene’s fanzine-of-record, Search & Destroy, foregrounds the cityscape’s cyclical razing and reconstruction. Assemblage pieces exhibited in Bruce Conner’s career-spanning retrospective, It’s All True, mourn integral musicians lost to drug addiction. While historian Michael Stewart Foley’s 2015 book on figureheads the Dead Kennedys, argues that San Francisco featured the most explicitly political early punk scene in the country. Fixtures such as Negative Trend and the Sleepers wrote plodding, downcast dirges, while the Avengers’ throttling propulsion underlined vocalist Penelope Houston’s barbed liberation hymns. Crime satirized authority in cop drag, and the Nuns riffed on themes of sexual submission. The Dils, meanwhile, promoted class warfare with churlish glee and careful analysis – only a San Francisco group would sing about property-tax reform. It was quite gloomy, that summer of hate, and punk was the soundtrackJim Jocoy Foley’s book on the Dead Kennedys’ Fresh Fruit for Rotting Vegetables situates San Francisco punk in a moment of conservative backlash: weeks after California voters narrowly rejected the virulently homophobic “Briggs Initiative” to ban gays from public schools in 1978, Dan White assassinated gay San Francisco supervisor Harvey Milk and progressive mayor George Moscone. Punks resented Dianne Feinstein, who replaced Moscone, for courting the police department and real-estate interests at the expense of the city’s poor.The scene’s first and most important venue was the Mabuhay Gardens, a Filipino restaurant subjected to regular police raids. It was blocks from the International Hotel, where dozens of mostly elderly, low-income immigrant residents were violently evicted while thousands protested outside in 1977. Foley says that police harassment, coupled with the scene’s proximity to embattled communities, helped inspire punks to “make common cause with marginalized people”.Dead Kennedys – 10 of the best The most vivid example of the scene’s political engagement is perhaps Dead Kennedys vocalist Jello Biafra’s madcap run for mayor in 1979, when he garnered 4% of the vote with promises to implement neighborhood police elections and legalize squatting. A two-day festival at the Mabuhay in 1978, meanwhile, benefitted striking Kentucky coal-miners. “There was an intellectual class to the scene,” Foley says. “It doesn’t conform to the image most of the world has of punk being mindlessly nihilistic.” Punks’ participation in the White Night Riots, which erupted following White’s sham trial for the murder of Milk and Moscone, reflected solidarity with the gay community as much as it did underground music’s own queerness. Members of Noh Mercy and Tuxedomoon, for instance, participated in the punk scene and queer theater troupe Angels of Light, while a stark picture of a burning squad car taken at the riot adorns the cover of the Dead Kennedys’ Fresh Fruit for Rotting Vegetables. Unlike early punk in Los Angeles and New York, San Francisco had little music industry infrastructure to underwrite and promote recordings. Although that motivated a raft of independent labels to form and proliferate, the scene didn’t yield a full-length album until the Dead Kennedys’ debut in 1980. And by then, the community had atomized into disparate cliques.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rico giving Jonnie a haircut, 1977. Photograph: Jim Jocoy/Image courtesy Casemore Kirkeby Gallery, San Francisco“San Francisco is also so closely identified with 1960s counterculture that it’s just too complicated for people to imagine that it hosted another major subculture a decade later,” says Foley. “These things have conspired to make it difficult for the story to break through.”Uncovering the forgotten punks of San Francisco – in pictures Also obscuring early San Francisco punk’s significance was the city’s relative lack of local media, but that fostered an especially strong will to self-document: arresting, low-budget concert films and documentary shorts such as Louder Faster Shorter and Richard Gaikowski’s Deaf/punk now live in major institutions such as the Pacific Film Archive, and historians such as Foley rely on fanzines including Search & Destroy.“My urge came from anger at how the hippie movement hadn’t been documented the way I experienced it,” says V Vale, who developed a probing interview style in the pages of Search & Destroy. “That’s why I wanted to hear people in their own words … I wanted to be an anthropologist, to question everyone and record every word accurately, without imposing values.” Indeed, San Francisco punks detected the need to preserve evidence of their scene for posterity – and to do so themselves. In 1980, the weeklong, multi-venue Western Front Festival included a gig flyer exhibition at Valencia Tool and Die. The show inspired a book, which appeared the next year, Street Art: the Punk Poster in San Francisco 1977-1981. “These posters were designed as trash,” writes coauthor Marian Kester in a prescient introduction. “The idea of throw-away art was great; it just didn’t work out in practice.”Many of Jocoy’s peers, though, aren’t around to appreciate broader interest in their scene today. “Since I’d just missed Vietnam, I thought I’d be part of this generation that wasn’t traumatized by war,” he recalls. “But in fact, I lost so many people, I became a survivor.”The LA Book Fair runs from 24-26 February at The Geffen Contemporary at MOCA, Los Angeles; Jim Jocoy’s Order of Appearance is out now