“Too many times the headlines from northern Nigeria read ‘Boko Haram’, but there are several other stories that beg to be told,” says award-winning writer and satirist, Elnathan John.In London to launch his debut novel, Born on a Tuesday, John says it’s time to shine a light on a different narrative of the region. His story follows Dantala, a teenager studying the Qu’ran in a town far away from home. His loneliness and isolation allows him to be drawn into the care of a Salafi sheikh, and the tense religious politics of the local mosque.Dantala’s experience is a window onto the realities of life in northern Nigeria, which has witnessed a brutal campaign of terror at the hands of the Islamist group Boko Haram. But it’s also a look at first love, friendship and family.“When it comes to northern Nigeria, there’s no demand for nuance,” John says. “That’s what I’m trying to do – shine a light on a dark space in the hope that people will see the silhouettes and want to know more. And then bring their own lights and ask new questions if their own,” he explains.Elnathan John: ‘I want to show that things are never simple’ Born on a Tuesday – extractLast month Malam Abdul-Nur stopped me at the entrance of the mosque and asked me if there was anything I wanted. First I was confused, thinking that perhaps he wanted to scold me for having done something wrong. But then his eyes were relaxed and the lines of his forehead weren’t so many and he wasn’t breathing hard like he does when he is upset. Reluctantly I told him I wanted a radio that has stations outside Nigeria – something like the big one in Sheikh’s office, but smaller, so that I can carry it around. At some point it crossed my mind that perhaps he wanted me to do something for him.  A few days after, he sent for me. He had just moved into his own office at the back of the mosque not far from where our rooms were. The new office has white walls and tiles and a small toilet inside. Since Sheikh has decided to make Malam Abdul-Nur the headmaster of the new school that is to be built on the land adjacent to the mosque, the office will also be the office of the headmaster. I wonder about toilets that are built inside rooms. Will the whole room not smell when someone uses the toilet?  The office has a ceiling fan and a standing fan. The curtains in the office are not the normal type hanging from a rope nailed into the wall. They close and open when you pull a rope that has tiny plastic balls like a small chasbi. Alhaji Usman’s workmen built the office and they finished the construction and painting in only three weeks. The same men will build the school.  I chewed on my nails as Malam Abdul-Nur picked up two small cartons from under his table and made some notes in his exercise book. I could not read what he wrote because it was upside down from where I was sitting, but I could see that he was writing in Arabic.  Malam Abdul-Nur did not raise his head from his exercise book when he asked: “If Allah asks you to do something, will you refuse?” When I did not answer, he stopped writing, dropped his pen slowly and massaged his eyeballs. Then he looked at me. “No,” I said, confused. “Are you just saying it, or do you understand it, what it means to do what Allah wants without any question?”“I don’t understand.”“Are you ready to do what Allah wants when He wants it, without asking why?”“Yes.”“Yes. I know you will.”He pointed at the two cartons.“Your radio is in the bigger carton. And because of how well-behaved you have been since you came here – I have been watching you; I see everybody, those who are bad and those who are good and those who are just here eating our food – the smaller carton is also for you.”“Thank you, Malam.”“Will you be able to use the phone or do you want me to show you how to set it up?”“Let me try, Malam.”“If you have any issues let me know.” *  In my heart I should have been happy but I was not. I have a funny feeling about Malam Abdul-Nur, Allah forgive me. It is hard to describe. It is a little bit of fear, a little bit of anger that he doesn’t want Jibril to talk to me and a little bit of confusion because I don’t know what is going on in his mind. I cannot say that he is kind because he slaps people when he is angry. I cannot say that he is wicked because he also gives people gifts. And Allah only judges what is inside a person’s heart.  I came back into the room and saw Jibril opening a small carton just like mine. He got a phone too. I watched how he opened it and put the SIM card inside it. Then I did the same with mine.  Tuning the radio to find stations, I find BBC Hausa and BBC English. I like BBC Hausa. Especially the news. It is surprising that I learn new Hausa words from a foreign radio station. Comparing the news on BBC English to that on BBC Hausa is interesting. Sometimes I do not know a word in English and I hear it in Hausa and I understand. Other times there is a Hausa phrase I have never heard before, like Majalisar Dinkin Duniya, which BBC English calls United Nations. If I had not heard the English, I would have translated it to mean ‘Association of Joining the World.’ But then if I had heard United Nations I would have called it Dinkakun Kasashe in Hausa. Words turn into something else when they change from Hausa to English and back. Born on a Tuesday is published by Cassava Republic (£8.74)