Sofie Hagen: Danish comics would ask, ‘Do you need me to have sex with you?' At 15, I watched comedy for the first time. It popped up on my TV and caught me by surprise and I started laughing. Not just laughing, I was howling. Tears were streaming down my face and I could barely catch my breath to let out more illimitable laughter. The joke was about how weird it is that you always buy toilet paper in bulk, as if to signal to other customers that you are about to take a massive dump. I mean, in retrospect, it doesn’t make a lot of sense. Who buys toilet paper in bulk? Not my housemates. And no matter the velocity and magnitude of your body waste, surely you would need a normal amount of toilet paper afterwards.I remember the moment so clearly. The rest of that summer is a blur. I remember never opening the curtains. I remember not leaving my bed. I remember calling a doctor, asking if the side-effect of the vitamins I took as a child was severe depression because, otherwise, I could not understand why I felt the way I did. When I started seeing a psychologist a few months later, the first thing she did was make a joke. I was so surprised, I guffawed in her face.“When I was 15, I used to be a cutter. Which really annoyed my mother because she’d be woken up by me… cutting her.”That. That was my first ever joke said on stage. I opened with it. I am not expecting that to be the joke of the year as it barely functions as an actual joke. But it amazes me that that was what I wanted to share with the world. Yet, five years later, I told my story about having been a teenage self-harmer on stage at the Edinburgh fringe festival and subsequently on stage at the Soho Theatre. The audience laughed, by the way.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sofie Hagen performs live. Photograph: Karla GowlettSofie Hagen review – comical confessions of a Westlife obsessive This was 2010 and I don’t recall hearing any other mental health jokes on the Danish comedy circuit. Today they are flourishing, to the extent where two Danish comedians, Mads Holm and Ane Høgsberg, toured their Great Depression Show, in which Holm talks about going through a current depression and Høgsberg discusses having been the girlfriend of a person experiencing depression, and it was a huge success. Last year’s Edinburgh was notoriously full of shows in which people discussed their inner demons.Last night I gigged at a new act night. A young man was making his debut. His hands were shaking, his voice was broken up by tiny gasps for air and he performed his whole set looking at the wall behind him. His opening joke was about mental health. His next joke was about masturbation, sure, but it was delivered and received in the same exact way as the joke about his severe angst. It filled me with happiness. I felt like I was watching the destruction of a ridiculous taboo happen in front of my eyes.And part of me was jealous – of all the depressed 15-year-olds who turn on the TV today and see jokes about the very thing they are going through. They will see comedians like Felicity Ward and Mark Watson showing them that they are not alone. Alongside, but not instead of, jokes about toilet paper, because when it comes to making people laugh, we need a reasonable measure of both mental health and scatology.Sofie Hagen: Shimmer Shatter is at Liquid Room Annexe to Sunday28 August