 If every wilderness has its hero, then Peru's blisteringly hot Ocucaje desert has Roberto Penny Cabrera.Decked out in khakis and desert boots, with a sheath knife on his belt and a wide-brimmed Bushmaster hat atop his head, the 55-year-old has the rogueish charm of Indiana Jones and the survival skills of Crocodile Dundee.No one knows this inhospitable 2,000 square miles of rock and sand – Peru's Death Valley – better than he does.The Ocucaje desert was once a shallow sea which was probably destroyed during the cataclysmic event which created the Andes cordillera about 30m years ago. What is left is probably the planet's largest graveyard of marine fossils, many visible in the windswept dunes.One of the most astonishing recent finds – the skull of an 18 metre (60ft) carnivorous whale dubbed Leviathan Melvillei, in honour of the author of Moby Dick – is now on display at the Museum of Natural History in Lima.Penny Cabrera is the self-appointed guardian of this coastal desert. He strives to protect the remains of prehistoric whales and dolphins from fossil hunters who would sell them on the black market to collectors and even foreign museums.  Location of the Ocucaje desert, Peru.Among the most prized finds are the teeth of the Megalodon, a coach-sized shark which dwarfs today's Great White, because they are easily pocketed and smuggled. Driving his desert-customised Nissan Patrol, called Deborah, Penny Cabrera has a knack for finding the triangular teeth which can be as big as a man's hand. Spying one, he halts, reverses, advances two metres, leaps out and marches 20 paces into the desert to recover a tooth which he declares he saw because of the particular way it glinted in the sun.A former naval officer who learned English while working for a US oil company, Penny Cabrera grew up in the nearby town of Ica, which was founded by his maternal ancestors in the 16th century. His Irish-Peruvian father was a tough guy who taught him to be honest and straight, he says.He lives in one room in the family's tumbledown mansion overlooking Ica's main square. The walls are lined with maps of the desert and cabinets filled with rocks and fossils. It is a shrine to the place which is his passion."You need a place to go to be alone," he says, explaining how the search for solitude led him into the desert. "Where I go there is nothing alive – nothing alive! – not even flies. When you walk and you see 60m years of history in front of you … you realise these dead animals were much more successful than us [in evolutionary terms]."He takes us to a high point in the desert where every few metres lie the fossilised remains of prehistoric whales. Vertebrae and bow-shaped jaw bones protrude like shipwrecked fishing boats from the sand which the decomposition of the huge marine mammals tinged red.At another spot he shows us the edge of a prehistoric coral reef jutting from a dune. Its intricate structure is almost perfectly preserved.He navigates through the apparently featureless desert with ease, occasionally driving in circles to confuse motorbike-riding fossil hunters who would follow him, he says."Once they take the bones, they lose all their context. How can you understand a fossilised skeleton without its surroundings," he gesticulates wildly. "I'm not a scientist, I'm just a finder, but I know that much."He alleges that fossils, including some complete skeletons, have been whisked out of the country with the complicity of corrupt officials.Jose Apolin, a biologist in charge of the protection of paleontological items at Peru's culture ministry, denies this."We don't have concrete evidence that there is exportation of fossils of high paleontological importance from Ocucaje," he says. He adds that more than 1,700 smaller fossils, mostly ammonites, were seized by police at Lima international airport in 2010.Carlos Vildoso, one of Peru's few paleontologists, says important fossils are being regularly looted from the country. "There is no control, nobody knows what is going out of the country, nobody know what is being extracted or exhumed, it is impossible to know … "He is suspicious of foreign paleontological expeditions which he claims are reluctant to divulge fully their activities and says the state makes it harder to operate legitimately than otherwise."We've had delay after delay getting permissions from the state," says Vildoso, who has spent the last two years trying to build a dinosaur park in the remote highlands of northern Ancash, after giant footprints were discovered when Antamina, a mining conglomerate, was building a road.Antamina is funding the venture, which aims to help local communities, as part of its corporate responsibility programme.The law regarding fossils is vague. With archeological finds, they can be held in personal collections in Peru. It is only illegal to take them out of the country. The legislation is difficult to enforce and full of loopholes, says Blanca Alva, director of the culture ministry's supervision and control office, which makes it almost impossible to prosecute people suspected of trafficking fossils.Back in Ocucaje, Penny Cabrera's quixotic passion for this slice of prehistory is difficult to ignore. He insists it should become a protected area and a site for international scientific study."This place is too much responsibility for one man to bear," he says wearily, his blue eyes squinting in the intense sun.But Apolin says Ocucaje occupies just a quarter of the area of southern coastal Peru which contains fossils. The territory is so large it would be logistically impossible to protect.