Hello guzzlers,I’ve now been writing this puzzle blog for more than a year, and it’s been great fun. Today I have news! I have compiled a book of my favourite puzzles. Can You Solve My Problems? A Casebook of Ingenious, Perplexing and Totally Satisfying Puzzles will be out in November. It contains 125 puzzles along with historical and mathematical background. I’ve unearthed some hidden gems for you, I promise, and almost none of them has been featured on this blog before.So, I thought that today I’d set some puzzles on a bookish theme. The first is about actual books. The second and third link words and numbers. And if you can solve the final one, you may win a copy of my book when it comes out. Here we go:1) Volumes I, II and III of a dictionary are stacked vertically side by side on a shelf, in that order and with spines visible in the normal way. The thickness of the pages in each volume is 6cm, and the thickness of the cover of each volume is 5mm. What is the horizontal distance from the first page of Volume I to the final page of Volume III?Clarification: by horizontal distance I mean what you would expect me to mean, which is the distance along the shelf, in other words the distance parallel to the edge of the shelf2) Count upwards from ZERO thinking about the letters used in the names of numbers. The letter F appears for the first time in FOUR. The letter A first appears in ONE HUNDRED AND ONE. Keep on counting, noting the first appearance of each letter in the names of numbers. What is the final letter that you will note down? In other words, when counting upwards, what is the final letter to appear in the name of a number?I thought it would be fun to see how many people get the answers right. So submit your answers here, and I’ll have the results later at 5pm BST.Here’s the third question.3) The following statement is correct< F is the first and the seventh letter of this sentence.>Using the sentence above as a model, fill in the gap in the following sentence to make it correct:<C is the first and the [...] letter of this sentence.>I’ll be back at 5pm with the answer. Meanwhile, if you want to win a copy of Can You Solve My Problems? when it comes out, answer this question4) Reorganise the letters of READING SLOW to form a single word.Email your answer to gapublicity@faber.co.uk by 4.45pm today and one winner will be picked at random.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you want to preorder a copy of Can You Solve My Problems? you get a third off - £9.99 (RRP £14.99) - please go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99. .........................................I post a puzzle here on a Monday every two weeks. If you want to propose a puzzle for this column, please email me I’d love to hear it. Thanks to Eric Angelini for puzzles 3 and 4 today.I’m the author of several books on maths, as well as the kids book Football School: Where Football Explains the World which uses football to explain subjects like maths, English, geography, physics, music, fashion, biology and more.You can check me out on Twitter, Facebook, Google+, my personal website or my Guardian maths blog.