Eamonn Holmes has been cut off mid-sentence while signing off for the last time as the anchor of Sky News Sunrise after 11 years.Holmes was being hugged by his co-presenters Nazaneen Ghaffar, Isabel Webster and Jacquie Beltrao in the final seconds of the programme but it ended abruptly as he said: “Why would I go ... ”Holmes had thanked viewers for “putting up” with him. “In 11 years, I have had to report on some awful news, but I’ve also had to report on some really fantastic news as well, some really uplifting news and we should have more of that,” he said. “But the main thing is, it’s not important who presents the news; the news is the important thing.”Last month, Holmes, 56, who also hosts ITV’s This Morning with his wife, Ruth Langsford, on Fridays, confirmed his departure from the daily breakfast programme in a Facebook post.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eamonn Holmes with Ruth Langsford on This Morning. Photograph: Ken McKay/ITV/Rex/ShutterstockHolmes has presented Sunrise since 2005, following his departure from ITV’s GMTV, which he co-hosted for 12 years.Announcing his departure in September, he said: “I cannot stress how hard it is saying goodbye to such a programme and the friends and colleagues who I have met over the years because of it, but nothing stays the same – nor should it.“New studios mean a wonderful chance for new ideas and a new approach with new presenters. I hope they enjoy and respect the privilege of hosting Sunrise and waking up Britain and the world as much as I have. To those who have worked or woken up with me on Sky News over the years – thank you. I hope you appreciated that I tried to do it differently.”He had to apologise earlier this year after being accused of comparing an attack on the Manchester United team bus by West Ham supporters to the Hillsborough disaster that led to the deaths of 96 Liverpool fans.Holmes will be replaced as anchor by Sarah-Jane Mee, who will be joined by a new co-host, Jonathan Samuels, a senior correspondent for Sky News. They will present Sunrise from a new glass studio from late October.