The spectacular staging of War Horse, with lifelike equine puppets, has been seen by more than seven million people worldwide since it premiered at the National Theatre in 2007. Now its director is reuniting with some of the original puppeteers for an ambitious production loosely based on a story by 19th-century French writer Victor Hugo.Tom Morris is staging The Grinning Man, a tragicomic musical with extraordinary human and wolf puppets brought to life by Finn Caldwell and Toby Olié, who met as War Horse performers.The production will premiere on 20 October as part of celebrations for the 250th anniversary of the Bristol Old Vic – once described by actor Peter O’Toole as the world’s “loveliest” theatre – of which Morris is artistic director.The Grinning Man is inspired by The Man Who Laughs, an 1869 novel by Victor Hugo, whose masterpieces include Les Misérables and The Hunchback of Notre-Dame.The plot concerns a dark fairy story about a man tormented by a quest to discover how his face became disfigured as a child, twisting his features into a “hideous grin”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Toby Olié in War HorseThere are three main puppet characters – a boy, a girl and a howling, growling wolf. Each is worked by two or three puppeteers, who control movements, sounds and emotions.Morris said that puppets gave maximum imaginative scope to theatre audiences. “The unique thing about any live performance is what the audience might do to transform what they see,” he said.“In film, you’re able to give a fantastic detail of imagery to an audience who are responding to it emotionally. In theatre, what you see on stage is a tiny part of the imagined reality of the story. The more the audience imagine, the more they will feel when the characters they’ve invested in imaginatively have an experience of whatever kind. Puppetry is the most extreme form of that.”Olié added: “We want the audience to invest in the puppets, like they’re real characters. To imbue them with life, thought and breath, in the same way that we did with War Horse and their puppets.”The new musical includes “a beauty-and-the-beast-type love story” between the grinning man and the blind girl, who has grown up into a beautiful woman. The story also explores tough themes such as adoption and whether parents should hide a child’s past and the impact of extreme disfigurement.Morris is associate director of the National Theatre, where he co-directed War Horse – an epic story of horses on the front line in the first world war – with Marianne Elliott, in a collaboration with the Handspring Puppet Company. Such is its popularity that a major UK tour begins in 2017.He said that War Horse has inspired a generation of British puppeteers to realise the possibilities of puppetry and theatrical storytelling.Human puppets are almost more difficult to create than equine ones, Olié said, as the audience is much more sensitive to what looks real.“It’s a challenge not to make these human figures too ‘puppety’,” he said. “Not to have a sense of a marionette, a wobbly Thunderbirds-style of human puppets, but to give them as much weight and a ‘relatability’ that people had with the horses, where an ear flick and tail swish had that whole [audience] hooked.”The challenge is to inspire the audience to fill in the blanks through their own imaginations, he added.