“If we have it, we make it!” is the motto Wolfgang Puck, chef to the stars, swears by on Oscar night. For 22 years, he’s been catering the Academy’s official afterparty, the Governors Ball, for winners, losers, and those rich enough to afford the $1,500 admittance fee. Oscar 2010: a taster of this Sunday's food and drink I meet the sprightly Austrian-born chef and restaurateur in the cavernous kitchen of the Ray Dolby ballroom, three days before the big event. Despite the herculean task ahead of him and his 350 culinary staff, Puck appears, well, puckish.“I’m better today,” he says, smiling. “Yesterday I was so tired. We were out late the night before. We did a big dinner for the artist John Baldessari at our restaurant and I guess I was drinking vodka with him? Or tequila? I had to get up so early the next morning.”Over 50 dishes, from hors d’oeuvres to small-plate entrees, will be passed to the 1,500 guests slated to attend. With so much to choose from, I ask Puck how he’d pace out his eating. Nominees, take note! “I would for sure start with the baked potato and caviar – and ask for some extra caviar accompanied by champagne. Then have them bring some sushi and sashimi. Then maybe a little risotto with black truffles. And then maybe a little steak or short rib.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Barbra Streisand loves them!’ ... Wolfgang Puck Photograph: Chelsea Lauren/REX/ShutterstockOther signature dishes include bite-size chicken pot pies with shaved black truffles (“Barbra Streisand loves them!”), fresh Maine lobster (“Danny DeVito had a double order of it one year”), and of course, the event’s signature mini chocolate Oscars (7,000 are made every year for the Ball).Puck has some vegetarian and vegan dishes at the ready, but says that by the time the ceremony finally wraps, the starving guests “forget they’re vegetarian”. Kosher folks are the only ones out of luck - “but they bring their own meals anyway,” says Puck, who has a kosher kitchen set up, but has yet to ever fire it up. By the time the ceremony finally wraps, the starving guests ‘forget they’re vegetarian’ Asked for his craziest celebrity request, Puck draws a curious blank – probably at fear of offending his high-paying customers. To handle the pickiest of eaters he has eight chefs on standby throughout the night. “If you want lamb chops, a special pasta... if we have it, we make it. One time we were sitting with Martin Scorsese late here and he said: ‘Oh, it would be great to have a real pasta.’ So we made him a pasta with basil, tomato and shrimps, a little spice, olives and some capers.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ready for their gold leaf ... Puck’s legendary chocolate Oscars Photograph: David McNew/Getty ImagesIn 2006, after Ang Lee won best director for Brokeback Mountain, Puck prepared him steamed fish, “Hong Kong style”, to surprise the Taiwanese-born winner. “If he lost I would have cooked him one too, but maybe he would not have come here.”I ask what he has in store for this year. A “Veracruz style fish” for best director front-runner Alejandro Gonzalez Iñárritu, he says excitedly, despite having not seen The Revenant. “I don’t know if Leonardo DiCaprio ate bison, bear or whatever in the movie. I did see Star Wars though.”Puck supposedly enjoys fulfilling special requests so much that he adds to his workload every year by coming up with standalone dishes for a lucky few nominees. I’m concerned and ask why. “We are here to serve the people: that is our job to make the people happy. Plus they pay for it, so that’s okay!”‘Not even a single Kardashian’: the misery of an Oscar gifting suite Part of the furniture of Oscar week are the VIP gifting suites installed around LA by independent agencies hoping to have their high-paying products photographed with celebrities. I made my way to one sponsored by Secret Room Eventson the patio of a posh Beverly Hills hotel on Tuesday expecting to see one familiar face - I hear they’re in abundance in these neck of the woods.After getting past security, I see a red-haired child actor mugging for the paparazzi while holding a skin lotion described by a beautician as “a facelift in a bottle.” Only problem is: I don’t recognise the kid. Unfortunately, the same goes for every rich-looking person in attendance. Over the course of an hour, I don’t spot a single nominee, or even a Kardashian.It’s easy to overlook the lack of star power when you’re being pampered like an emperor. Where else can you get a full body spray tan treatment behind a makeshift curtain while sipping wine? (I opted out of the experience - preferring to keep my clothes on.) Or sample a body lotion containing real diamond dust particles? Or try “the number one exfoliator in Japan.” (“Every seven seconds, they sell a bottle!” the merchant exclaims.)A Wilde night with the Irish film industry expatsHollywood is an industry that loves to celebrate itself - which is why the 11th annual Oscar Wilde Awards, which honour film and TV figures who are either Irish or sort-of Irish, such a refreshing change. It’s an informal gathering held at the offices of JJ Abrams’ production company, Bad Robot, in Santa Monica, and is really just a cocktail party for Irish expats working in the film industry, and winners casually accept their trophies.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Corden, right, with Room director Lenny Abrahamson. Photograph: Alberto E. Rodriguez/(Credit too long, see caption)“Honorary Irishman” James Corden used the bulk of his stage time to joke that he was once considered for the role that eventually went to his fellow honoree, Daisy Ridley, in Star Wars: The Force Awakens. “It’s moments like this that make you think: fuck it, I’m going to host a late night talk show.”Northern Ireland rockers Snow Patrol also took Abrams to task for not casting them in The Force Awakens. “Daniel Craig got the call - but not us!” said lead singer Gary Lightbody. “Maybe one day he’ll be big.”