A post-antibiotic age in which common infections and minor injuries can kill is too frightening to contemplate. Yet it is a very real possibility for this century, says the World Health Organisation (WHO).To help slow the emergence of bacteria resistant to antibiotics we need to reduce our dependence on antimicrobial drugs and drastically cut their misuse and overuse in humans and animals, say experts.The issue was brought to a head today after pork sold by several leading British supermarkets was found to be contaminated with a strain of the drug-resistant bacteria MRSA. Experts warn that the superbug has emerged as a result of the overuse of antibiotics in livestock destined for human consumption.Although this particular strain of MRSA poses little risk to the public, say food safety officials, there is evidence that there could be a risk of a wider health crisis unless antibiotic use is tackled. Resistance emerges when bacteria survives after an animal is given a dose of antibiotics. This resistant bacteria can spread to humans via contaminated food, water, soil, livestock manure or farm workers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   How antibiotic resistant bacteria develop and transfer from animals to humans. Illustration: Centers for Disease Control and PreventionWhat are food companies doing?A number of major global food companies, including McDonald’s, Tyson and Walmart, have recently taken action, announcing policies to end the use of antibiotics important to human health in food producing animals. However, all three will continue to allow the use of such antibiotics if prescribed by a veterinary official, which is likely to diminish the impact of the change.The moves by US-based food companies has come as officials there issued a flurry of initiatives to try to show leadership on the issue, including directing federal departments and agencies to only buy meat raised with “responsible antibiotic use”.This is not surprising given that antibiotic use by the farm sector in the US increased by 17% between 2009 and 2013, according to the Food and Drug Administration, which estimates that 80% of all antibiotics consumed in the country is used for livestock.In the UK, the figure is believed to be closer to 50%, although with no accurate record of antibiotic use kept by either industry or government this can only be an estimate based on sales data.Globally, researchers recently projected that antibiotic use will rise by 67% by 2030, and nearly double in Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. This will be driven by a rise in meat consumption and a shift to large-scale farms where anti-microbials are used routinely, say the authors.  Global antibiotic use in food-producing animals, including pigs, poultry and cattle (mg per 10km pixel). Illustration: PNAS/Thomas Van BoeckelProfessor Peter Collignon, from Australian National University, who has advised the World Health Organization on antibiotics, says the moves by major food companies mark a step-change in approach. “I would say that three-quarters of all of those antibiotics used in farming are wasted,” he says. “It will be in McDonald’s’ and others’ self-interest to show they are following through on their commitments and doing it [reducing usage] properly.”Consumer backlashEven before the Guardian’s revelations about superbugs found in supermarket meat, there have been rising consumer fears over antibiotic use in food-producing animals. A recent survey in the UK found a growing mistrust among shoppers of meat and food companies’ use of antibiotics in livestock, with 81% believing that this makes them less effective for people – up from 76% in 2012.Some companies have already reacted and committed to producing meat without the use of antibiotics (organic rules only stipulate that they cannot be used routinely as a preventative measure). Meanwhile, one of Europe’s largest pork producers and exporters Danish Crown is undertaking trials for rearing pigs without the use of antibiotics.The Guardian contacted all of the UK’s major supermarkets and meat processors about their policies on antibiotic use in their supply chains. None detailed a specific policy for how they had or were reducing antibiotic use, emphasising instead a general support for measures to reduce usage and their opposition to routine use.However, Aldi was among those that recognised the potential dangers of a public backlash on the issue: “Aldi requires that all suppliers adhere to legal requirements and ensure the maximum residue limits and withdrawal periods are met as required. Customers need reassurance about product safety and expect the products they buy to be safe for consumption and everyday use.”MRSA superbug found in supermarket pork raises alarm over farming risks Antibiotic-free food?What health campaigners want is for retailers and suppliers to demonstrate plans to phase out routine prophylactic use of antibiotics, including a ban on the mass use of medication in feed. However, they pointedly criticise the recent attention given to antibiotic-free labels on food.“There is a welfare issue around completely removing any kind of antibiotic use in farming,” says Emma Rose from the Alliance to Save our Antibiotics. “Animals must and should be treated with antibiotics as and when is necessary – and when this mirrors a diagnosis from a qualified vet.“It is the routine, prophylactic use that we oppose when no disease has been diagnosed in any of the animals being treated. We also oppose the use of the critically important antibiotics.”For Rose and other campaigners, introducing “antibiotic-free” labels risks creating a two-tier food system, with meat products from animals raised without antibiotics turned into premium products while the majority continue to buy from those reared using antibiotics. Such a situation would do little to deal with the problem of antibiotic resistance.“None of these addresses the fundamental problem of farm management. It is the industrial farming system that causes stress and disease,” says Peter Mundy from the US-based NGO Animal Welfare Approved. “Antibiotics must never be used as a cover for poor management.”Whatever policies individual companies decide upon need to be backed up by a global agreement and perhaps even a tax on antibiotic use, suggests Aidan Hollins, from the University of Calgary. At present, there are a number of countries that do not even have a national regulation and monitoring system.