Collecting unwashed forks might seem like a strange artistic practice but, with friends in the right places (read: working at luxury catering companies), it takes on a whole new meaning.Art institutions unite for new biennial survey of contemporary Australian art For the past 15 years, the Melbourne artist and activist V-T-R, real name Van Thanh Rudd, has been overseeing the “swiping” of cutlery from high-class hotel restaurants and function rooms, where the world’s richest and most powerful have been wined and dined. And now a selection of these forks – in all their greasy, grimy glory – are ready to be ogled by the rest of us.“When the 1% eat in various luxury hotels around the world, they’re served by thousands of hotel workers who have access to the cutlery they use,” Van, the nephew of the former Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd, told Guardian Australia. “I worked in that particular area of the hospitality industry in the late 1990s and, to some of us, swiping their dinner forks from under their noses didn’t seem out of the question.”And so we find greenish goop rusted on to a silver fork once held by Prince Harry; a tiny strip of meaty fibre munched on by Clive Palmer, clinging to the lower two tines; Hillary Clinton’s pilfered prongs left almost bare but for a few yellowing crumbs.It’s voyeuristic, bizarre and more than a little grotesque – but chances are you’re going to expand these photos to examine each crumb regardless.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by Prince Harry (circa 2013). Photograph: Rich Forks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the billionaire and politician Clive Palmer (circa 2014). Photograph: Rich Forks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the former US secretary of state and presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton (circa 2010). Photograph: Rich Forks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the media proprietor and billionaire Rupert Murdoch (circa 2013). Photograph: Rich ForksHe is the nephew of a former PM but Van T Rudd’s name may be familiar to you in its own right.David Hockney's iPad art among 700 of his works to show in Melbourne A political activist and visual artist, he has been at the centre of a number of recent political controversies: three months before Julia Gillard ousted his uncle from government in 2010, Van had announced he would be running against her in the Melbourne seat of Lalor, for the Revolutionary Socialist Party. Later that year, when the ABC program Australian Story featured him in an episode, “Uncle Kevin” declined an invitation to appear; and in 2011 Van was fined and removed from the Australian Open after staging an anti-racism protest dressed in a Ku Klux Klan outfit.But The Rich Forks has been Van’s most longstanding project and next week a small amount of them will be exhibited at a community arts centre in Melbourne before the collection travels the world. (Van would not confirm whether this collection includes a fork from his relative.)Van says the idea behind the project is two-pronged: on the one hand it “takes back a tiny bit” of the wealth of the 1% and on the other it exposes and infiltrates exclusive corporate dinners “where billionaires and conservative politicians decide the future of our world while devouring premium food and wine”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the former Australian prime minister Julia Gillard (circa 2007). Photograph: Rich Forks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the former Australian prime minister John Howard (circa 2001). Photograph: Rich Forks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the mining billionaire Gina Rinehart (circa 2013). Photograph: Rich ForksVan says there are about 40 forks in the collection so far, a number arrived at with the help of five-star hotel workers “dotted around the world”, many of whom are paid a minimum wage while they handle the cutlery and glassware for the rich. The activist and artist sees it not as stealing but “reverse looting”, or “reappropriating a tiny piece of the vast amount of wealth stolen from us”. When questioned about the project’s legality he replies: “So what? ... Capitalism has been basically built on legalised crime for the benefit of the extremely rich.”But isn’t it a little creepy? Van is similarly nonchalant: “I’ve never considered it creepy. Perhaps displaying them in public may relieve a bit of that,” he says. “Personally I find the tens of billions made by Mark Zuckerberg from our private lives a little creepy.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the former Fifa president Joseph ‘Sepp’ Blatter (circa 2015). Photograph: Rich Forks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by the casino billionaire James Packer (circa 2011). Photograph: Rich Forks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fork used by billionaire and Virgin Group founder Richard Branson (circa 2004). Photograph: Rich ForksA small selection of The Rich Forks will be displayed at Footscray Community Arts Centre from 5-21 May, with more exhibitions to be announced 