Born to Be Different9pm, Channel 4A worthy show this, presented sensitively by Channel 4 despite the channel’s sins, elsewhere, in the portrayal of the physical human condition. Tonight, as the children approach age 16 and its attendant anxieties, Hamish, who has achondroplasia (dwarfism) is spotted by the New Zealand paraswimming team. Also navigating their teens are Zoe, who has arthrogryposis, her friend Emily, who has spina bifida, William, who has tuberous sclerosis, and Shelbie, who is profoundly physically and mentally disabled. David StubbsHappy Valley9pm, BBC1Blimey, this is tense. Tommy Lee Royce’s creepy little avatar Frances (Shirley Henderson) has instructions to kill Catherine (Sarah Lancashire). While she stalks her prey, homicide detective John (Kevin Doyle) tries to stay cool as another man is blamed for his crime. An episode rich with the series’ theme of good people damaged by addiction or bereavement presents its telling, understatedly wise exchanges against a backdrop of looming menace; the devastating final scene will leave you winded. Majestic. Jack SealeWho’s the Boss?9pm, BBC2It is not compulsory to have tattoos and/or a beard to work at BrewDog but it certainly helps, so strong is the craft brewer’s hipster-rooted company culture. All of which, in the final episode of the series where staff do the hiring, makes you worry from the moment we meet the three contenders competing for a job as a regional area manager. Quite simply, none of the hopefuls looks the part. Plus, will entrepreneurial company boss James – “I’ve sacked someone on their first day before” – really relinquish control? Jonathan WrightBenefits By the Sea: Jaywick9pm, Channel 5The opening episode of a second series, which seems to confirm that the vogue for documentaries prompting resentment of the more fortunate or contempt for the less is proving profitable. Benefits By the Sea returns to the Essex village of Jaywick, by some measures the most deprived place in Britain. Among the residents most likely to be pitilessly repurposed as folk demons by the Daily Mail are Sarah, a pregnant heroin addict, old-school East End type Fred, and recovering alcoholic Boo. Andrew MuellerThe Last Seabird Summer 9pm, BBC4Our final visit to the Shiant islands in the Outer Hebrides. The humans have long since left, but every summer the birds return in healthy numbers. The Shiant colonies are the exception, though, as seabirds are in global decline. In the rest of Scotland alone, numbers are down 40%. It’s July and Adam Nicolson is back to relish the sight of the puffins, guillemots and razorbills necking their fill of fish. He also visits colonies in Iceland and elsewhere in Scotland where teams are trying to preserve the dwindling numbers of waterfowl. Julia RaesideWolfblood4.35pm, CBBCThe kids’ supernatural fantasy drama returns with a double bill and a fancy red-carpet premiere. Jana (Leona Vaughan) has broken loose from her pack and is getting to grips with modern life in the big city, with all its hashtags and technology. There’s a new head of security at Segolia – Imara (played by Michelle Gayle) – who sends Jana to find her son when he doesn’t come home from school. Of course, there are wolfbloods on the loose in the streets, but the drama strikes just the right balance of intriguing, but not too scary. Hannah VerdierThe Aliens9pm, E4Aliens have landed. They look like us, but their hair is hallucinogenic when shaved off and smoked, and we’re really racist towards them and make them live in a lawless walled ghetto. Got that? Great. On with a swaggering escapade about a border control officer (Michael Socha) and his alien admirer (Jim Howick) getting tangled up with a mercurial alien gangster (Michaela Coel). That tremendous trio of leads, plus some backflippy direction, make this a fun ride. We can worry about where it’s going later. JS      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack O’Connell as Gary Hook in ’71. Photograph: Studio Canal/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarFilm choice’71(Yann Demange, 2014) 9pm, Film4West Belfast 1971 and a young squaddie – Jack O’Connell’s Gary Hook – finds himself stuck behind enemy lines. But Demange’s thriller is not interested in the politics: this is a ferocious action movie suffused with nailbiting tension, as Hook tries to stay ahead of provisionals and equally deadly undercover agents. With its moody, fire-bombed night-time fights and chases, it seems most indebted to John “Assault on Precinct 13” Carpenter’s visions of urban violence. Paul HowlettQuantum of Solace (Marc Forster, 2008) 9pm, ITV2The return of Daniel Craig’s Bond, and 007 has got the hump. His desire to avenge the death of Casino Royale’s Vesper Lynd makes him even more lethal in pursuit of villain Dominic Greene (Mathieu Amalric), who plans to corner the market in ... water? An action-crammed assignment that would make Bourne blanch. PHMan on a Ledge (Asger Leth, 2012) 11.05pm, Film4Having been framed for a robbery and shoved in the slammer, there’s only one course of action for good cop Sam Worthington: break out of jail, clamber out on a ledge on the 21st floor of New York’s Roosevelt hotel, and wait for the preposterous/ingenious plot to work its way round to finally proclaiming his innocence. PHToday’s best live sportT20 World Cup cricket: Zimbabwe v Hong Kong The tournament gets under way. Scotland v Afghanistan follows. 9am, Sky Sports 2Cycling: 2016 Paris-Nice The second stage of the road race. 3pm, Eurosport 1FA Cup football: Hull City v Arsenal Arsenal travel to the KC Stadium. 6.30pm, BT Sport 1Champions League football: VfL Wolfsburg v Gent The last-16 second leg from the Volkswagen Arena. 7pm, BT Sport 2