“Without the experience of the visitor, it’s just machines,” Ryoji Ikeda shrugs. “People create the story.”The elusive sound artist is addressing an assembled press cohort the day before his installation opens at Hobart’s Museum of Old and New Art (Mona), as part of this year’s Dark Mofo festival. The work, Supersymmetry, draws upon his 2014-2015 residency at the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva – home of the Large Hadron Collider – and is a typically “Ikedan” melding of sound, light and particle physics. Dozens of screens spew out seemingly impenetrable reams of information, while lasers scan ball bearings that scatter across tilting surfaces, occasionally interrupted by ear-piercing noises and disorienting strobing.Should art respond to science? On this evidence, the answer is simple: no way Supersymmetry is a festival (and Mona) highlight but that it presents, in its inscrutable immersion in “data”, an artistic analogy for the pure scientific research at CERN seems to be lost on some gathered at the museum. What, they seem instead keen to discover, does it all mean?Ikeda doesn’t budge. “I never set the destination; I never try to navigate people’s emotions,” he says. “I don’t want to explain too much, because there is no answer. ‘Understanding’ is not the right word … to me, it’s more ‘experience’.”Ikeda is referring to his installation but his words could equally be applied to Dark Mofo at large. Like any major arts event, the true delights of Australia’s most wintry festival often come in watching other people engage with public art.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   House of Mirrors by Christian Wagstaff and Keith Courtney at Dark Mofo’s ‘interactive art playground’, Dark Park. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaThe “interactive art playground” at Macquarie Point, Dark Park, again provides a bewitching experience – nowhere more so than inside Christian Wagstaff and Keith Courtney’s House Of Mirrors, an artful take on the classic sideshow favourite. Save from an occasionally helpful hand print (the Windex budget must be huge), it becomes increasingly difficult to discern subject from reflection as we move through the space, until we descend into hysterical laughter before finally tumbling out of the door.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra Chorus performs Michaela Gleave’s A Galaxy Of Suns. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaOn opening night, Michaela Gleave’s A Galaxy Of Suns sang the festival into life, the Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra Chorus following microtonal cues to sing the position of the stars above Hobart in real time. It was really too cold to open one’s mouth that Friday evening but the assembled audience stared in slack-jawed awe regardless.In their silver cloaks – part druid, part thermal blanket – the Chorus wove a spell on Macquarie Point, as Klieg lights lifted towards the sky to form a bridge between Hobart and the heavens. I couldn’t help thinking of Spielberg’s Close Encounters and its musical engagement between earthlings and spaceships: “If everything’s ready here on the Dark Side of the Moon ... play the five tones.” As the Chorus sang, Cameron Robbins’ Anemographs silently worked away, scribbling the wind’s movements using LEDs like very busy (if slightly underfed) War of the Worlds “tripods”. The key exhibition at Mona, Robbins’ solo retrospective Field Lines, is a calming counterpoint to Ikeda’s sonic pummelling. The Melbourne artist uses long-exposure photography to capture otherworldly squiggles of light created by his Anemographs (or, in the case of his images of Mount Jim’s magnetic anomaly, a handheld torch); it is, as he tells us during a walk through the exhibition, “drawing without paper; using light instead [for] immediate artwork”.That’s not to say the artist is immune to paper. Robbins’ “instruments” have long transcribed the wind using ordinary drawing implements (though as he laughed, he has not had much luck securing a corporate sponsorship that will treat him to a bottomless supply of pens) and one large new work for Mona is a huge “lunar clock” that draws the tides of the river outside.Robbins’ fanciful drawing machines and wind funnels captivate the Dark Mofo crowds. One especially delightful piece, Loggerheads – a never-ending battle between a pen and a dry-eraser, each controlled by different power sources – elicited peals of joyous laughter on opening day, especially from younger viewers.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anemograph by Cameron Robbins at Dark Park, part of the 2016 Dark Mofo festival in Hobart Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaThere’s a hint of the extraterrestrial, too, in the London-based collective United Visual Artists’ stunning Dark Park offering, Our Time. Dozens of pendulums, each fitted with a saucer-like light and a speaker, hang in the cavernous Sea Road Shed; the pendulums are set in motion in unison but chaos takes over. Part of the joy of Our Time is watching people appear in different places throughout the shed as they move between the alternating beams of light – like watching the lights on the shipping lanes blink on the horizon, occasionally coming into unison. With Ikeda’s statement that “people create the story” as my guide, I read Grupo EmpreZa’s Bodystorm as a comment on the pointlessness of late capitalism, as the business-suited Brazilians smash bricks with sledgehammer and mortar and pestle for five hours, blowing the resulting dust around the Cold Store. I could be wrong; such are the mysteries of endurance art. And “mystery” was certainly the order of the evening at one of Dark Mofo 2016’s key performances, Mike Parr’s Entry By Mirror Only, held at the infamous Willow Court, an asylum that ran continuously from 1827 to 2000. The question of what to do with the site continues to plague Tasmanians; some have called for Willow Court to be made an International Site of Conscience, while others think it could have “dark tourism” appeal. Parr’s work seemed to fall somewhere between those two camps.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Willow Court asylum in New Norfolk, Tasmania, where Mike Parr staged Entry By Mirror Only and Asylum. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaWhile his Asylum is a festival-long installation of works inspired by and scattered throughout Willow Court, Entry By Mirror Only was a 72-hour endurance piece, in which Parr moved between two “studios” in Alonnah, the former female maximum security ward for the criminally insane, creating drawings as he reflected on his brother Tim’s 2009 death, following a long struggle with mental illness. The sight of Parr drawing, in his pyjamas, was indeed moving but even the simple act of travelling within the space carries a heavy psychic load. Dank with condensation, the floor thick with possum shit, Alonnah’s rooms are still scattered with the detritus of its former uses; it’s a desperately sad atmosphere. Would Parr’s work carry the same weight if he were staying up for 72 hours drawing in a conference centre or portable classroom?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A desperately sad atmosphere’: Asylum by Mike Parr at Dark Mofo. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaParr has said that the work is “a journey” and that the entry by fee of a mirror is “a fair and reasonable exchange” but many visitors seemed overwhelmed by the profundity of simply experiencing the site, much less bearing witness to his performance. Given the macho overtones of much of Parr’s endurance works, choosing to stage this one in the women’s ward added an extra degree of ethical discord. Is it possible to rehabilitate the site of countless state-sanctioned cruelties for the sake of art? To what end does an “installation” of buckets of the artist’s urine interrogate the site’s history? I am not sure there is an answer for either. Indeed, the onus to reflect on Willow Court rests almost solely on the viewer; it’s they who must bring a mirror to gain entry and who must decide where to leave the mirror.In the end, while Parr sketched in a room at the other end of the building, I left my mirror in one of the rooms in Alonnah – on the windowsill, facing the sky – and then walked outside and stared at the stars for a good 10 minutes straight. When I finally came back to earth, I saw a group of women leaving the site in tears and another group arriving, enthusiastically carrying the engraved mirrors ripped from the doors of an old wardrobe. Who knows which reaction was the right one? People create the story, after all. • Dark Mofo continues in Hobart until 21 June