Our long-departed neighbour left a growing legacy, a Christmas tree that was consigned to the garden early one new year and now stands taller than the house itself. This spring it has acquired an untidy extension, for magpies have built their nest two metres below its fairy-free tip. It is not pretty: a ball of sticks slapped in a fork against the trunk.During the later stages of construction, the birds used our garden as their main building supplier. One magpie demonstrated exceptional intelligence by returning again and again to hop about in the hazel tree and bite off finger-length twigs. Somehow it understood the inherent advantages in this tree – not just hazel’s strength and suppleness, but also the malleability of its live greenwood stems.The magpie’s mate was what ornithologists might describe as “inexperienced”. Others might call it stupid. It would fall through the crown as if dropping down a marble run, making desultory snaps at twigs as it descended, only to bounce on the ground and snatch up any old dead twig. Then it would fly back up to the nest with its booty, each time landing with the customary “honey, I’m home” cackle of greeting.Country diary: Wenlock Edge: A foundling magpie Both birds knew what to do when it came to plastering the interior. Gouged-out muddy craters at the edge of the pond are the leftovers of magpie plundering, for they spent two days at the beginning of the week scouring out moss and mud for the nest lining. Years of scientific observation have produced a quirky fact: while the male concentrates on making the nest roof and base, the female does the bulk of interior insulation work. At the end of each day, the birds would strut about on the top of the roof as if in a “job done” mood.It has all gone very quiet now. The bird that is habitually loud and raucous has the wisdom to know when to stay silent. Almost certainly there are eggs inside the nest and the female is sitting tight, waiting for her brood to hatch in early May.• To order A Nazi in the Family by Derek Niemann (Short Books) for £11.99 (RRP £14.99), go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p for online orders. Phone orders min p&p £1.99.Twitter: @DerekNiemann