Last Night of the Proms 7.15pm, BBC2Cross-channel coverage of the Proms’ swansong from the Royal Albert Hall. Finnish conductor Sakari Oramo returns to conduct the BBC Symphony Orchestra and Chorus’s closing concert, sharing starring slots with Peruvian tenor Juan Diego Flórez and Scottish composer Tom Harrold. A treat for aficionados, though the potential for post-Brexit patriotic posturing by flag-flourishing attendees may prove more than a little irksome. Continues BBC1, 8.50pm. Mark Gibbings-JonesGo For It 7pm, ITVEver found yourself frustrated that your ability to crack walnuts with your eyelids or identify brands of toilet paper by taste alone has gone unheralded? Finally, there’s a TV forum for such outre talents. Go For It sees members of the public given space to demonstrate their peculiar skills – and if they walk it like they talk it, there’s a grand to be won. Former Butlin’s Redcoat Stephen Mulhern is the ringmaster of this cheerfully end-of-the-pier affair. Phil HarrisonThe Last Leg: Live From Rio 8pm, Channel 4Further Paralympics roundup fun from Adam Hills, Alex Brooker and Josh Widdicombe. Day three sees wheelchair sprinter “Hurricane” Hannah Cockcroft start the defence of her two 2012 gold medals by competing in the T34 100m, as well as medal hopes in swimming, shooting and judo. Commenting on all that and other news from the Games are powerlifter Ali Jawad, sprinter Jonnie Peacock and comic actor Stephen Mangan. Jack SealeBeck: Gunvald 9pm, BBC4The latest feature-length drama based on Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö’s hit novels doesn’t disappoint, delivering a gut-punch of doom, gloom and Scandi twists. Diligent Stockholm detective Martin Beck investigates the murder of a journalist who had been the target of threats due to his faith and support for gay rights. Could rightwing extremists be behind the death? As well as an obligatory fast-paced chase, there’s also a personal tragedy for Beck and his officers. Hannah J DaviesImpractical Jokers UK 11.30pm, Channel 5Hidden-camera show in which four friends compete in a series of toe-curling challenges and dares, each attempting to prank flabbergasted strangers while directed by the others via an earpiece. Expect fart machines and relentless harassment of the general public during this uncomfortable half-hour. A feeble remake of the popular US original, the British cast aren’t quite funny enough to make it work. Grace Rahman9/11: The Longest War 8pm, National GeographicA look back at the day that plunged the world into darkness, alongside interviews with those caught up in the aftershocks; from the fire chief who had to make the agonising decision to abandon the Towers’ upper floors and survivors buried amid debris resembling “freshly fallen snow”, to relatives of the impossibly brave passengers of Flight 93. Fifteen years after the dust has literally settled, these events now seem less surreal than just unbearably sad. Ali CatterallRank The Prank 9am, CBBCThis British-Canadian kids’ show sees youngsters team up with special effects pros for practical jokes galore. If it were filmed in the UK, this would mean scaled-down scares using whatever prosthetics the Beeb had left over from Doctor Who. However, the North American connection means big ideas and even bigger smoke machines. The young contestants are alarmingly competitive, but kids and adults alike are sure to delight in their borderline sociopathic setups. Hannah J DaviesFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   United 93 Photograph: Allstar Picture LibraryUnited 93(Paul Greengrass, 2006) Saturday, 10.45pm, ITVThis story of the fourth plane, which didn’t reach its intended target, was the first major feature about the 9/11 attacks, and is appropriately scheduled for this anniversary weekend. Done in near-documentary style with little-known actors, Greengrass creates a tense and moving real-time account of extraordinary events, cutting between the military and air controllers trying to make sense of everything and the claustrophobic face-off inside the plane between the hijackers and desperate passengers. Paul HowlettExhibition(Joanna Hogg, 2013), 10.35pm, BBC2An incisive examination of middle-class dysfunction from Joanna Hogg. Former Slits guitarist Viv Albertine and Liam Gillick are married artists, oddly referred to only as D and H, living in a marvellous modernist house that is tellingly up for sale (Tom Hiddleston is the dreamy estate agent); the relationship is dormant, sexless and enigmatically fascinating. PHMuriel’s Wedding(PJ Hogan, 1994), 10.35pm, 5STARSkipping along to Abba and sporting a pretty wicked sense of humour, this comes on like another Strictly Ballroom Aussie feelgood comedy, but the laughs are bitter. Muriel (Toni Collette) is fat and spotty and snubbed by her awful mates, until gritty new chum Rachel Griffiths shows her how to hit back. Underneath the laughter, Muriel’s deadbeat family and their suburban semi-existence remain irredeemably appalling. PHWhite Elephant(Pablo Trapero, 2012), 2.05am, BBC2This tough Latin American drama from the talented young Pablo Trapero has an Argentinian priest (Ricardo Darín, of The Secret In Their Eyes) and his French colleague (Jérémie Renier) struggling to protect their parish in Buenos Aires. Issues of faith blend with secular problems posed by corrupt politicians and rival drug gangs in a hard-hitting tale.Today’s Best Live SportCycling: Vuelta A España 11.15am, Eurosport 1 The penultimate stage, from Benidorm to Alto de Aitana, and the last chance to gain time.Premier League Football: Manchester United v Manchester City 11.30am, Sky Sports 1 Coverage of the top-flight clash from Old Trafford, where the Red Devils host the Citizens.Paralympics 2016 1pm, Channel 4 Athletics, track cycling and para-triathlon coverage on day three.