Dash and Lily’s Book of Dares is written by the New York Times bestselling authors of Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist, Rachel Cohn and David Leviathan. Lily, one of the protagonists of the novel, has written a set of clues and challenges in a red notebook and left it on her favourite bookstore shelf waiting for the right guy to come along and complete those challenges.This YA novel is set during the Christmas season in New York City. The two main characters Dash and Lily are absolute book nerds, who pass a red moleskin notebook between them consisting of dares for the other one to do. Now doesn’t this make you want to read this book? There’s Christmas, nerd love and a game of dares, it’s an ideal book for every book-lover out there and I must say I loved it. The book also transports you through New York City giving the reader a glimpse of what Christmas time is like there and there’s some serious festive vibes.The book is written from both Lily’s and Dash’s perspective, Lily’s perspective is written by Rachel Cohn and Dash’s perspective by David Levithan. Dash is depicted as a misanthrope who relishes solitude and detests Christmas while Lily is very eccentric and absolutely loathes being alone. She is always looking for quirky things to engage herself in, like dog walking (yes she is a dog walker, cool right?). What I really love about this book is that both the characters are so different from one another but are connected by their love of reading. It’s a lighthearted story of two people falling in love over their passion for books. As the novel progresses, Lily and Dash contemplate whether they are compatible or are they only attuned as their notebook versions where they share thoughts, wise words and innovative dares.This book is a package deal of peculiar characters, sarcastic humor and serendipity. The sarcastic humor in this book makes it absolutely impossible to put it down.My only criticism of this book is that there is plenty of highfalutin vocabulary which was irritating at times but I guess it adds to making Dash’s character more intricate. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? P.S. The book has a beautiful cover of a cheery Christmas streets with street signs and snowflakes falling in the shapes of hearts. • Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!