Bastardo Electrico, CorkManni Dee’s techno, mottled with both grubby percussion and deep, menacing throbs, has settled on various labels in recent years, including renowned London imprints Black Sun Records and Perc Trax. His most recent wax offering, Behaviour Cycles, released on Sunil Sharpe’s Earwiggle label last year, found peak-hour brutality: grisly, sometimes acid-flecked slabs, spring-loaded, clipped hi-hats and residual hiss. His output extends beyond administering stern 4/4, too, something exemplified by a recent brooding improv set on Alien Jams’ NTS sradio how as Nuances, as well as Life Between Screens, a cassette compilation he curated in 2014 featuring ambient wanderings from the likes of Shelley Parker, Bnjmn and Wanda Group. Catch Dee here alongside the aforementioned Sunil Sharpe, who has been making waves this month with his brilliant 25-year spanning podcast on the dance music site Resident Advisor, and resident Jamie Behan.Cyprus Avenue, FriSCHoundstooth, LondonAn in-house label from Fabric could have been a bloated vanity project, but now celebrating its third birthday, Houndstooth’s signings have been eye-catching and futurist – despite the occasional longueur. Its biggest success has been Call Super, the techno producer whose excellent tracks evoke a jazz club for swooning replicants. But they’ve had other wins, such as the throbbing techno-pop of Aïsha Devi, and one-offs from Special Request and Marquis Hawkes. The latter appears here alongside Call Super, Second Story and harsh breakbeat techno veteran Dave Clarke (room one features Bicep and Paranoid London). Meanwhile, Houndstooth’s weird obsession with acts with “snow” in their name gets aired at a free live showcase later in the week (Shacklewell Arms, E8, Thu), where Snow Ghosts and Soft As Snow appear, along with new signing Guy Andrews, who makes lofty post-rock swaddled in digital noise. For an introduction to Houndstooth’s charms, check out their third birthday compilation Tessellations.Fabric, EC1, SatBBWhities, SheffieldBeginning as a spin-off imprint from London’s taste-making Young Turks, the label behind acronym heavy favourites such as the xx, FKA twigs and SBTRKT, Whities has quickly blossomed into a compelling home for esoteric electronica. Led by NTS Radio host Nic Tasker, they have so far encompassed truly offbeat anthems from the likes of Bristol’s house reformist Kowton, the compellingly obtuse Terron, and last year’s vivid and orchestral Radio Magic Tracks by Reckonwrong. Tasker himself will be showcasing his unsurprisingly wide-reaching taste, alongside label regular and inquisitive techno pathfinder Minor Science. Hope Works regulars Lo Shea and Linnemann are in support.Hope Works, SatJTIntrigue 13th Birthday, BristolThe south-west’s best-loved drum’n’bass night puts on a fiesta for the heads, featuring US veteran Raw Q and evergreen emcee DRS – even Intrigue’s resident DJs the Insiders are worth the door price. Headlining is Brazil’s liquid legend DJ Marky. Bryan Gee witnessed Marky scratching in a São Paulo club in the late 90s and brought him to London. Eventually, tracks such as Só Tinha Que Ser Com Você drew the attention of the scene at large, shining sunny guitars and Fernanda Porto’s vocal lilt into the dark world of UK breakbeats.Thekla, FriGTKrankbrother And Phonica Records, LondonFantastic voyages abound at this showcase of the best of underground European dance. Repping Scandinavia is Axel Boman, playing sassy vintage house and boogie, plus Prins Thomas, who has taken his cosmic disco into more ambient terrain for new album Principe Del Norte. The Germans, meanwhile, burrow deep into a strobe-lit set instead of going to outer space: there’s Move D, as well as Ata, whose Robert Johnson nightclub in Frankfurt draws techno pilgrims from across the world.Fire, SW8, SatBB