Iraq: The Final Judgement 9pm, BBC1Next week’s publication of John Chilcot’s much-delayed inquiry into why Britain went to war in Iraq might provide an element of closure. But it will undoubtedly stir up many painful memories, too. In this documentary, journalist and film-maker Jane Corbin returns to Iraq in the company of parents who lost sons in the war and the general who led British troops into battle. Thirteen years on, are the wounds anywhere near healing? Paul HowlettCelebrity MasterChef 8pm, BBC1Tonight’s clutch of cooks include Communard-turned-Twitter vicar Richard Coles, EastEnder Laila Morse and former England rugby international Neil Back. There’s also a pop local derby, in the shape of a Sugababes v Blue face-off contested by Amelle Berrabah and Simon Webbe. With two groups set to assist at two top City of London eateries, an undercooked clam could kickstart another global financial meltdown. No pressure, then. Mark Gibbings-JonesCCTV: Neighbourhood Watching 9pm, ITVThere are now 6m CCTV cameras across Britain – and with systems starting at as little as £100, why wouldn’t you rig one up to catch the culprit who’s letting their dog poo outside your house? This documentary looks at why people install home surveillance and what it picks up, from errant cyclists and cheeky car thieves to aggressive neighbours and mauled kittens. Excessive? Yes. Catnip for nosy parkers? Definitely. Hannah VerdierThe Women Who Kill Lions 9pm, Channel 4This one-off follows a pair of female hunters who kill not only lions but rhinos, zebra and many other animals besides. A photo of American Rebecca Francis lying next to a dead giraffe went viral after a Tweet from Ricky Gervais, while Jacine Jadresko hit the headlines in her native Croatia for her passion for hunting. Expect questions of gender to come into proceedings as well as the usual ethical wranglings around such blood sports. Hannah J DaviesVersailles 9.30pm, BBC2Having brokered peace with Spain, the Sun King turns his gaze to problems closer to home. Not-so-dandy highwaymen are still prowling the road to his ongoing Grand Designs project, while his aggro brother Philippe has been emboldened – both politically and sexually – by success on the battlefield. For once, the most graphic scene in the enjoyably fruity Franglais soap has nothing to do with transgressive ravishing: gird yourself for a grisly ad hoc amputation. Graeme VirtueThe Mine Wars 9pm, PBS AmericaA fascinating tale of oppression and resistance in early 20th-century America. The conflict between miners and pit owners culminated in an actual military battle, but in many ways the real story is to be found in the gradual march towards collective organisation and the miners’ consequent realisation of their own power. Full of extraordinary archive footage and wonderfully picaresque characters, this is the kind of significant but undertold history that PBS does best. PHAll The Way 9pm, Sky AtlanticDubbed the “accidental president” following John F Kennedy’s assassination in 1963, Lyndon Johnson was determined to use his roughhouse political smarts to win the election in 1964 and drive through a radical programme promoting civil rights and combating poverty. Bryan Cranston is superb as LBJ in this one-off drama; part idealist, part boor, appeasing Martin Luther King one moment, haranguing his vice president from his toilet seat the next. David StubbsFILMThe Town (Ben Affleck, 2010) 10pm, 5StarAffleck directs and stars in this crunchy, smart heist movie, set in Boston’s Charlestown district. He’s career criminal Doug MacRay, who decides to go straight with posh new girlfriend Claire (Rebecca Hall), but is pursued by Fed Jon Hamm and inveigled into one last robbery by Pete Postlethwaite’s brutal villain-cum-florist, Fergus. Not the most original of plots but full of wit and vicious energy.About Elly (Asghar Farhadi, 2009) 1.25am, Film4This subtly gripping psychological thriller from Iran is set in a derelict seaside villa, where a group of well-heeled Tehran professionals are taking a break. Childminder Elly (Taraneh Alidoosti) is a young outsider who has been invited to cheer up the recently divorced Ahmad (Shahab Hosseini); her disappearance opens a can of worms among the friends. Farhadi’s fascinating film is closer in tone to Michael Haneke than, say, his countryman Abbas Kiarostami.SPORTWimbledon Into the second round of the competition, providing the whole thing hasn’t been shot through with rain up until this point.11.30am, BBC1; 1pm, BBC2One-Day Cricket: England v Sri Lanka. The fourth match of five comes from the Oval. Again, the weather may have something to say. 12.30pm, Sky Sports 2Henley Royal Regatta Yes, it’s a sporting event, too. 1pm, BT Sport 1