“I will never forget the black sky, the sun as red as lipstick,” says Malaysian Australian rapper, slam poet and author Omar Musa, recalling the bushfires that ravaged Canberra, the Australian capital, in 2003.Musa was playing tennis when he looked up to see ash cascading down “like black snow” over his shoulders. “I never forgot that image. I stored it in my head and said: one day I’m going to use it somewhere.”That fire has since become a metaphor for what Musa sees as Australia’s combustible society, a society that stands at odds with its foreign image as the so-called “lucky country”, blessed with perfect weather, an abundance of natural resources and wealth. Here Come the Dogs by Omar Musa review — street poetry committed to the page Musa’s debut novel, Here Come the Dogs, now out in the US (Musa is performing at celebrated storytelling event the Moth in New York next month), examines a different Australia, one rarely seen in print or on the screen. His book is about rage and powerlessness among disenfranchised youth, many second-generation immigrants, living on city fringes.In a hot-blooded summer, three friends while away the days with sex, drugs and the greyhound races to the hypnotic beat of hip-hop in a town similar to Sydney (its name is never disclosed). Solomon, a 27-year-old Samoan, is harangued by the others for his private school education; his half-brother Jimmy, unaware of his father’s identity, is lost and confused; and then there is the tough, brittle and intemperate Macedonian Aleks.These men inhabit a sinewy, masculine world. Land and language is infused with virile swashbuckling and violence. But beneath that lies vulnerability – as well as a fair bit of dreaming.Last March, Here Come the Dogs was longlisted for one of Australia’s most prestigious literary prizes, the Miles Franklin, awarded to novels that deal with Australian life. For Musa, 32, the book is about an Australia that few people want to talk about: a country where race and class clash. “We try to portray ourselves as a very egalitarian society, the land of the fair go,” explains Musa in a hip Sydney café. “But I think that we are quite segregated. And class exists in Australia – it’s much more slippery and hard to get your hands on than in other places where it’s more structured and stratified. But it’s there.” Here Come the Dogs is confrontational both in tone and subject. Modelled on Dorothy Porter’s poetic crime thriller The Monkey’s Mask, much of the book is also in verse – angry, unruly, fearless. The slam poet wanted to put into Australian letters characters rarely given a voice, the young men “despised and demonised or just ignored all together”.“One of my heroes is Werner Herzog, and he said that part of art is extending sympathy where it has not been extended before and telling stories where they have not been told before,” says Musa. “I think multicultural Australia in the flat blocks and in the suburbs is rich with stories.” Musa grew up on the third floor of a block of flats in suburban Queanbeyan, often referred to disparagingly as “struggle town”, a drab satellite city adjacent to Canberra. His father, a Malaysian poet and actor, immigrated to Sydney in 1980; his mother is an Australian arts journalist.As a child, Musa remembers ascending the steps of his block surrounded by the evocative smells and spices of his Macedonian, Korean and Serbian neighbours. Domestic violence was common (beatings echoed through the thin walls). This, as Musa expressed in Slam Poetry of the Streets, his 2013 TedxSydney talk, was an Australia with no “white sails of the opera house ... no pavlova”.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When we meet, Musa fits his hip-hop persona perfectly: he sports a discreet tattoo on each arm (one of an artsy elephant, often confused for a “toaster”, he tells me), a stud in each ear, scruffy jeans and a shaved head. I have to ask: did he really grow up without pavlova, a desert made of meringue, whipped cream and fruit that is an Aussie barbecue staple? The poet gives a big laugh and leans over the table to confide guiltily: “You know what? I love a pavlova!” Like his character, Solomon, he attended a private school, the esteemed Canberra Grammar School for boys, and like Solomon he sees himself straddling two worlds, a member of the “hyphen generation”. “I’ve always grown up as an in-betweener,” shrugs Musa, slumping back into his seat. “Malaysian hyphen Australian, between really a working-class town, ‘struggle town’, and a really privileged private school, between secular and religious – even Queanbeyan is known as part city, part country.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One battle Musa has faced as a high-profile artist and public figure (he was crowned the Australian Poetry Slam champion in 2008 and his 30th birthday party was hosted by Russell Crowe) is Islamophobia. Although Musa is secular, his mother converted to marry his Muslim father and he grew up practising Ramadan and praying five times a day.In his writing, Musa is searching for a “kind of incandescence, which is almost religious”. Yet he often receives hate mail and threats: “There are a lot of people in Australia who don’t like the idea of a person called Omar bin Musa speaking his mind and being out in the public arena and being confident and brash.” Musa first realised the power of poetry at age eight when his father introduced him to WS Rendra, a famous Indonesian poet. He recalls his dad telling him: “You see this guy? He’s a poet. But when he performs, he does it to stadiums full of people, to political rallies, and he uses his whole body and his voice.”It was only when Musa came across hip-hop, and later spoken word, that he finally truly understood what his father was talking about – that poetry did not have to be stuck on a page. On his arm is tattooed the Malay words for a storyteller, penglipur lara, a “reliever of sorrows” or “dispeller of worries”.Such a cathartic role is particularly needed in Australia, where sunshine and surf belies societal tension and where history “is often whitewashed [and] a very polished veneer is presented to the world”.“Our ex-prime minster John Howard famously said that we are past ‘all that identity stuff’. And I don’t think we are,” says Musa. “I think Australia’s sense of itself is very insecure, very shaky. And what I see around us is constant simmering tension and some kind of violence beneath the surface of this country.” In Here Come the Dogs, the fire represents burning desires. There is a second crucial metaphor – the greyhounds. In one hallucinatory scene, the dogs are taught by a spaceman to dig up the bones of massacred indigenous peoples. The dogs carry them to the doors of the counsellors and the mayor. The mayor and counsellors bury them again. The dogs, unperturbed, keep bringing them back. Over and over.“And that’s us,” says Musa. “That’s the writers. I’m the one who is willing to get dirty and dig in the dirt and makes things that make you uncomfortable and put it in front of people’s faces. In the end it will probably be useless, just like the dogs in the book – but I tried.”