Dennis Quaid’s first dog was a basset hound called Gertrude. She wasn’t, he says with a laugh, the kind that would perform the rough-and-tumble tricks like the dogs in his new film – basset hounds not being known for their athleticism – but she was loyal and “my everything. And I was hers, too.” Quaid is a dog person. There is a brilliant photograph of him on a Montana ranch, where he used to live, surrounded by his dogs. One of his terriers is sitting on a horse.So when his agent told him he had been offered a part in the film adaptation of A Dog’s Purpose, Quaid said he would do it, even before he knew the full plot. Based on W Bruce Cameron’s novel of the same name, it is about a dog that is reincarnated several times, and teaches its succession of owners (Quaid is one) the kind of life lessons that sound much better coming from a furry companion than they do from any number of self-help gurus or motivational Instagram posts: essentially, live in the moment, love others, be of use and have fun.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A Dog’s Purpose.It should have been a feelgood film, except for one thing: a couple of weeks before the US release date, a video clip was released to the website TMZ that purported to show one of the canine stars, a German shepherd, apparently in distress as it was being forced into some roiling water. Another bit of footage shows the dog going under. Animal-rights group Peta called for a boycott of the film, the director Lasse Hallström was called an animal abuser on social media and the studio cancelled the premiere.Quaid says it was “fake news”. “Somebody with their phone camera took some footage and re-edited it to make it look like the dog was really in peril, and being abused, which was far from the truth. There was an investigation, and it found nothing wrong. I saw all of the footage and it’s a completely different story. This story … who made the story and reedited their own footage, if they were so concerned about safety? Why didn’t they come out with the story then? Why did they wait nine months? So they could get some money from TMZ?”Peta calls for boycott of A Dog's Purpose following distressed German shepherd video It does look as if the dog was being dangled in the water. “There is actually a platform under the water [which] the dog is standing on,” says Quaid, who wasn’t on the set at the time (this particular dog not being his character’s pet). The dog was reluctant because that wasn’t the side it had practised going into the water from during rehearsals. “So they took him out and he was done for the day. Everything else, like for instance when he was supposedly being swept down and drowning, was far from the case. There were two divers with scuba gear. What happened on that particular take [was that] the dog got out of the water, shook himself off, and then ran around the other side of the pool to jump in again.” Quaid didn’t agree with cancelling the premiere. “I wouldn’t be here right now if I believed animals were being abused on that set,” he says.We meet in a hotel room in central London, where Quaid has been doing interviews all day, and he seems … straightforward for a movie star. He is 63 and preposterously handsome – something that always put him in the race for the leading-man roles. In fact, you get the feeling that he thinks of himself as more of a character actor.He grew up in Houston, with his electrician father, estate-agent mother and older brother Randy. His father had been a frustrated actor (and a distant cousin was the singing cowboy Gene Autry) but Quaid wanted to be a cowboy, then, when the space programme started, an astronaut, then a vet. Finally, at the University of Houston, he took Cecil Pickett’s acting class and was hooked. “He taught acting as a craft, and, within the first week, I knew what I wanted to do with my life. With him, I discovered that acting was really a study of human behaviour; what made people tick. And that fascinated me, and still fascinates me.”Randy Quaid made it to Hollywood first, and his younger brother followed. Did he worry it wouldn’t work out? “Was I totally confident? No. But I had resolve that it was going to work for me. I worked in jobs in Houston – I was a clown at an amusement park, I was a waiter, I worked construction.” In Los Angeles, he says: “I was determined not to work again except as an actor. I was lucky because I know a lot of people who were very talented who did not have luck.”In recent years, Randy has appeared to have gone spectacularly off course – there are bizarre videos posted on Twitter, and stories of conspiracy theories and going on the run. Quaid is in contact with him. “He’s doing OK. He’s had some things …” The sentence trails off. “He likes for me to keep him out of the press, out of my story, and I respect that. But I think my brother still has an incredible third act as an artist, an actor.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Big Easy.Quaid’s first hit came in the 1979 cycling film Breaking Away, and, in the 1980s, he made a number of films including The Big Easy and Innerspace, and played Jerry Lee Lewis in Great Balls of Fire! There were roles he missed out on which might have boosted his career into the big league. Legend has it that he narrowly lost out to Richard Gere for the lead in An Officer and a Gentleman, and Urban Cowboy was written for him, but John Travolta ended up being cast. “I used to, in my life back then, ask: ‘What if?’” he says. “Now I can’t be anything but grateful for the career I’ve had. I’ve had a very lucky career. I’m still here. Who knows what would have happened if … you know … there’s no way to tell. It could have gone better or worse.”As it was, the fame seemed hard enough to deal with: in 1990, he sought treatment for cocaine addiction. “You clean up your life and you expect things to get better, but the thing is they actually get worse,” he says, and laughs. “Because it leaves a hole there, and you have to fill it with something else. And also parts seemed to dry up for a little bit.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   in 1988 with Meg Ryan in the movie Dead on Arrival. Photograph: Allstar/TOUCHSTONEHe became, he says, “a seeker”. “I was looking for something to fill that hole. I started meditating. I read the Bible, the Qur’an, I read the Dhammapada [the Buddhist teachings]. I read all the texts. I was very interested in the Bhagavad Gita [one of the Hindu texts], which led to me going to India, seeking that out.” He went to India nine times in seven years, going “around different ashrams and was learning meditation. I meditated every day for 10 years.” That was another thing that appealed about this film – that dogs live in the moment, and we’d do well to try it. “It’s something that I have really sought all the time; try to bring myself around to being present instead of having one foot stuck in the past and another in the future, and miss living.” He sounds ahead of his time – everyone seems to be doing meditation and mindfulness now. He sounds surprised. “Are they? They were in the 1960s, too.” He laughs.By the end of the 90s, Quaid’s career hadn’t really got back on track (his private life, too, was about to implode – his marriage to Meg Ryan was coming to an end). Did he struggle to stay positive during that period? “I had resolve. I had a lot of tenacity. I had a lot of emotions but you really have to be tenacious about sticking with it because nobody is going to do it for you. It’s about keeping the fire in your belly. I’m very lucky because I probably have more fire in my belly for acting and working in films [now] than I did in my 20s. I appreciate it so much more; I don’t have anything to prove.” Since the 90s, Quaid has won critical acclaim as an ageing baseball player given a second chance in 2002’s The Rookie – the parallels were lost on nobody – and, in the same year, for his portrayal of a gay man (stifled in 1950s suburbia and married to a woman) in Todd Haynes’s Far From Heaven. The work has remained steady – he will return for the third season of the TV series Fortitude, and there is a new film he can’t talk about.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Rookie.Quaid played Bill Clinton in the 2010 film The Special Relationship, opposite Michael Sheen as Tony Blair. Can he imagine someone playing Donald Trump? Isn’t the current US president beyond impersonation? “I don’t know, maybe it’s Richard III.” He laughs. “The story comes down to something classic, mythic.” He has voted both Democrat and Republican over the years, and says about this election: “I wasn’t satisfied with either of the choices, to tell you the truth.” Is he satisfied with the result? “I still think that remains to be seen.” There is some kind of revolution going on, he says. Does that worry him? “No,” he says. Then a pause. “Well, for the short term, yes; for the long term, no. I believe in people. I think things will turn out OK.” That reassuring, relaxed voice, that famous easy smile. You could almost believe him.A Dog’s Purpose is released on 5 May.