Africa will continue to be held back if we do not immediately invest in research and development. African governments who have not met the 1% target pledged at the African Union heads of state summit in 2006 should increase their spending on research.Pledges have been made, but in most cases they haven’t been translated into concrete actions. This is partly because African governments struggle with conflicting priorities such as preventing disease outbreaks and providing education and proper sanitation. But science could have solutions for these challenges – if we invest in it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mauritian president Ameenah Gurib-FakimThe African economies are some of the world’s fastest growing, averaging 5% annually. For this growth to continue, local solutions and innovations need to be applied to all sectors, especially healthcare and education. Economic progress can only be sustained when the population is fed, educated, healthy and happy. Countries that have invested in education, science and technology have managed to break the cycle of poverty. The UK spends 1.7% of GDP on scientific research, while America spends 3% (government and private sector investment). African countries are lagging behind in development because their investment in science remains low.The recent Ebola outbreak in west Africa highlighted the disconnect between policy and research. It revealed the absence of strong and credible institutions, the lack of trained doctors and nurses and the outdated and underdeveloped medical and research systems. The shortage of clinical scientists, epidemiologists and diagnostics laboratories to survey and curtail the disease have had a devastating impact. Perhaps the silver lining to the Ebola cloud has been the promising trial data of a new vaccine that will hopefully reduce the number of lives lost to this dreadful disease. A better understanding of the threats of climate change requires reliable, credible data The impacts of climate change also hang like a Damocles sword over a region that has contributed below 3% of the planet’s carbon dioxide emissions from energy and industrial sources. A better understanding of the threats of climate change requires reliable, credible data to strengthen decision-making and ensure that the continent is able to adapt and mitigate the risks. Among the risks facing small island states like Mauritius are flash floods, droughts and unusual temperature spikes. Mauritius has experienced one such flooding in 2013 with fatal losses.Science, technology and innovation can provide answers to these threats and challenges and yet has never been centre stage in our decision-making processes.One of the consequences to this oversight has been brain drain. Many talented Africans have left to greener pastures in the west. The need to provide an enabling environment, and to prevent this drain of talent, is high on government agenda. In Mauritius, the government is enacting policies and providing incentives like a 10-year tax holiday for those who return. Higher Education in Africa: Our continent needs science, not aid Currently, it is tough for African scientists who have chosen to stay behind. They are forever fighting to secure funding to further their ideas and research activities. Research priorities are set outside the continent without any alignment to the needs of the continent. As a result, more funding is being spent on HIV and Aids, as well as malaria and tuberculosis, and not enough is spent on neglected tropical diseases.We need to ensure that funding from international partners complements government funding. Investing local funding will ensure that the research done in Africa helps to meet the continent’s pressing needs. It would also help to ensure the sustainability of programmes after donor funding has dried up. Then trained young scientists can also be assured of a brighter future.In September we launched the Alliance for Accelerating Excellence in Africa (AESA). AESA is a new initiative created by the African Academy of Sciences and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) Agency, with the support of the UK Department for International Development, the Wellcome Trust and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. It aims to support the training of scientists and drive Africa’s research agenda. It also seeks to help scientists grow their careers and access the funding they need to conduct research in order to overcome Africa’s developmental challenges. The launch of AESA on earlier this month is a promising step in the right direction.15 steps closer to quality higher education in Africa African governments must join hands with strong and credible international partners to invest in local research. Without funding and the necessary regulatory environment and policies, the benefits of the scientific results emanating from research work won’t be harvested. President Ameenah Gurib-Fakim is a biodiversity scientist and the president of Mauritius. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. 