When watching the entire series of 11.22.63, I thought less about executive producer JJ Abrams’s other TV shows such as Lost, other Stephen King adaptations such as Under the Dome, other period pieces such as Mad Men, or other time-travel yarns such as Outlander. Instead, I thought about Glee – the musical comedy from Fox that became more tedious and ludicrous as time went on. It is not that this series about a teacher from Maine who goes back in time to prevent the assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy is nearly as campy as Glee; it’s that they both had absolutely perfect pilots, then failed to live up to them.When I saw the premiere of 11.22.63 last month, I was blown away. The story was original, the action was suitably creepy and non-stop, and the production design absolutely gorgeous. Throughout the course of the eight-episode “event series” (what we call a miniseries these days), which debuts on Hulu on 15 February, the story remains original but the action and the creepiness sag considerably.Based on a Stephen King novel of the same name, we see Jake Amberson (James Franco, as fine as he’s ever been) travel back to 1960 through a magical closet in his local diner. Just stick with me on this one ... The owner of the diner, Jake’s friend Al (Chris Cooper), convinces Jake to go through the wormhole and live in the past for three years to stop the assassination of JFK, because he feels like it will make the present that much better, preventing all social ills, from the war in Vietnam and tragedy of 9/11 to the shocking popularity of Adam Sandler. The problem is that the past fights back against being changed, so whenever Jake tries to take the road less travelled (or never travelled at all), something prevents him, like a house fire or an attack by sadistic cockroaches. This makes his first few days in the past wonderfully intoxicating, as we are displaced into this strange landscape that could turn sinister at any moment.But then Jake settles into life in the 60s, gets a job as a teacher and waits for the assassination to roll around. He meets Bill (British actor George MacKay) who becomes his accomplice, and falls in love with Sadie, a fellow teacher (the talented Sarah Gadon). That’s when the show hits the skids.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Franco and Sarah Gadon in 11.23.63. Photograph: PREven worse, the eeriness of the past fighting back all but disappears once Jake really starts playing fast and loose with history. It becomes unclear which events are caused by this temporal backlash and which are natural consequences of Jake’s bad decisions. Without the supernatural undercurrent, the adrenaline drops considerably.King wrote more than 800 pages of source material about Jake and Bill’s surveillance of Lee Harvey Oswald (Daniel Webber), but did it all need to make it to screen? The middle episodes are a slog, especially the rambling subplot about Sadie’s ex-husband (TR Knight) who is into some creepy sexual stuff and likes to threaten everyone around him. Let’s not even discuss Bill’s attraction to Oswald’s wife, Marina (Lucy Fry), which is so preposterous that its importance to the narrative is particularly annoying. And did I mention that there’s amnesia, too? Not even the soaptastic Melrose Place and Empire managed to squeeze amnesia into their first eight episodes. Thankfully, the plot picks up steam again as Jake’s date with American history approaches. The drop in energy would be a huge problem for 11.22.63 if Hulu were rolling it out like Netflix or Amazon, dumping all the episodes at once. Most viewers would probably forego the rest of the series when they started to get bored. But Hulu will debut a new episode each week, and the pull of the main mystery should be enough to keep viewers tuning in. And they should: 11.22.63 is an enjoyable watch, even if – like most of us over 30 – it gets a little fat in the mid-section. In the end, what is great about the show is that while it takes place in the past, it doesn’t dwell in it. Jake falls in love with a bygone age, but finally learns that nostalgia is a kind of quicksand that anyone can get caught in. It’s an especially modern message considering how many shows today (yes, I’m talking to you, Vinyl) do exactly that. 