The East Village is one of the few places in Manhattan that is hanging onto some character and hasn’t been completely gentrified. A couple of years ago, I was at NYU and living on East 4th Street, between Avenues C and D, by some of the projects. It’s heavily Puerto Rican: in my block just about everyone was speaking Spanish.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tor Miller. Photograph: Steve Meddle/RexIt’s getting harder and harder to find ungentrified corners of New York. There are all these amazing restaurants popping up and I guess that’s great in a way, but what I like about the East Village, and about Chinatown to the south, is you feel as if you’ve been transported to a whole other world.I love the East Village for its strange little nooks where you can hide away. I worked as a pianist in a burlesque bar called the Slipper Room. There were all these acts and I played piano in between. They didn’t care who I was – or how old I was – so it was a good place for an 18-year-old to drink under age.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hotsy Totsy Burlesque pay tribute to the movie Star Wars at The Slipper Room in Manhattan. Photograph: AlamyThe neighbourhood has lots of cool bars and places to eat. I like Black Market  on the corner of Avenue A and East 7th Street. It does, I think, the best cheeseburger in the world, and a lot of guys from bands hang out there. And underneath it, accessed through a black door just round the corner, there’s a bar called Cabin Down Below, by the same owner. It’s quite hard to find but it’s really cool and friendly, with great indie music. Then around the corner on East 5th Street you have Sophie’s, a nice little pool bar that does picklebacks [whiskey followed by a shot of brine from a jar of pickled cucumbers], which is a favourite with a lot of my friends. Across the street is Miss Lily’s, a Jamaican-style diner that does amazing jerk chicken and plays dancehall music so loud you can’t talk to the person next to you, but it’s fun.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Miss Lily’s. Photograph: AlamyMy song Midnight is about nights I spent walking around the East Village. I was in a very committed relationship – as much as you can be at 18 – and I was falling in love with her and falling in love with the neighbourhood at the same time. My new single, Always, is about that time, too – though we actually shot the video for it over a long cold night in the Greenwich foot tunnel in London.Tor Miller’s Always videoI love the corner store, East Village Finest Deli. I know all the guys in there. My friends and I would compete over who had the best morning set-up: in my deli, I’d say, I can get a coffee and a bacon, egg and cheese sandwich for $3, which beat all the others because they were getting it for $4.50. And if I was a bit short of money I could always come back and pay them later.There’s also a really good deli called Sunny and Annie’s on Avenue B and East 6th Street. It’s the most nondescript place but they make these really interesting Asian fusion deli sandwiches. They do four varieties of [Vietnamese] pho in a sandwich, but I recommend the “Joe Biden” – breaded chicken, chillies, red onions, cheese.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sunny and Annie’s deli – go for the Joe Biden sandwich. Photograph: AlamyMy album is called American English because I’ve spent half my time in London since meeting my British manager, Chris Gentry [at Pianos, an East Village bar and club in a former piano showroom]. The music scene in London took me in much sooner than the US ever did. There was so much about British English I didn’t understand: like “gaffe” – why would you go to someone’s gaffe? And why does everyone say “innit” after everything? I picked it up, and got into trouble with my New York friends.Most of my time in the city I was so broke I never bought anything, but there’s a bunch of incredible thrift stores on 9th Street between Avenue A and 2nd Avenue, like Buffalo Exchange. There’s also this quirky coffee shop that sells clothing, called Fair Folks & a Goat. You pay $35 a month membership, and can drink unlimited tea, latte and espresso while, say, shopping for candles.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fair Folks & a Goat. Photograph: Catherine AbelThere’s a couple of really good independent movie theatres that show arthouse movies: Sunshine Cinema on East Houston Street and Village East Cinema on 2nd Avenue.I’m a native New Yorker: I was born in Greenwich Village, and moved to Brooklyn when I was three or four. But I’ve lived all over – in the financial district for a bit, near Battery Park, then Brooklyn Heights. For a while we were living in New Jersey but my school was still in the city, so I had this long drive every day. To stop me getting bored, my mom gave me all this music to listen to: Ziggy Stardust, Rumours by Fleetwood Mac, Elton John. I loved it so much my parents got me piano lessons with a local wedding singer and I went from there.I gave up my apartment in the East Village when I started touring. I’ve done four tours in the last year – so now I live partly in New Jersey and partly couchsurfing with a couple of friends in the Lower East Side. So my life is mostly spent sleeping in tour buses or on couches, but New York City is still home.• Tor Miller’s debut album, American English, and single, Always, are out now on Glassnote Records, tormiller.com