Dickensian8pm, BBC1Dickens delivered his stories in serial form, with their own cliffhangers, so it’s apt that the same technique is being used in this enjoyable series, which casts some of his major players in new storylines. Tonight, Stephen Rea continues to play Inspector Bucket like Patrick Malahide did Chisholm in Minder, as he investigates Jacob Marley’s murder. Try as Arthur might to dig for dirt on the handsome Compeyson, meanwhile, he keeps coming up empty-handed. Is he a true innocent or, as Havisham suspects, just a smooth criminal? John RobinsonSea Cities7pm, BBC2There’s surely a fascinating social history series to be made exploring Britain’s port cities. But this hasn’t really been it. Instead, it’s focused on the cheerful if slightly quotidian maritime concerns of the present day. Things conclude in Liverpool, where the Mersey harbours chipper cruise-ship operators, intrepid charity swimmers and amiable water-bound caterers. It does slightly resemble a corporate video at times but this is just about quirky and warm-hearted enough to keep its head above water. Phil HarrisonBig Dreams Small Spaces8pm, BBC2Monty Don returns to do over more people’s gardens. In Salisbury, Glenn and Zoe’s tiny back patch slopes absurdly; in Barnet, Nighat wants to install beehives in an allotment space tangled with elder and nettles. Don is the black sheep of the TV makeover family – you can imagine him causing a mild incident at Kevin McCloud’s 60th birthday party – and here he’s wild, magical and hardly ever actually present. Still, his bottomless wisdom inspires great things. Jack SealeJericho9pm, ITVFollowing the discovery of Red Killeen’s body, things aren’t looking great for chief suspect Johnny as the men of Jericho, lubricated by Coates buying a barrel of beer, get themselves worked up for a lynching. Will George step forward and relate what really happened? Will Johnny’s uptight brother, Charles, rush to the rescue? And did the town always have a gallows handy or was someone deputed to knock one up? An episode that plays with western tropes to far better effect than previously in this uneven but entertaining series. Jonathan WrightThe Brain With David Eagleman10pm, BBC4Fifth episode of David Eagleman’s absorbing rummage in the contents of our heads, which has been both a riveting precis of what we do know about the human brain and a humbling reminder of how much we still don’t. Tonight’s instalment, subtitled Why Do I Need You?, reflects on the brain’s craving for the stimulus of other brains – and why that need drives human beings to participate in cooperative endeavour, and to commit terrible violence. Andrew MuellerHard Wire: Agent Down9pm, Sky AtlanticIn February 2011, special agent Victor Avila of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement was undertaking a covert mission in Mexico when he and his partner Jaime Zapata were ambushed by 15 assassins from a drugs cartel. Despite trying to reason with them, they were shot at point-blank range before the gunmen fled. Zapata died from his injuries but Avila survived. Here, he tells Sky interviewer Nick Martin his story, and about the aftermath of a shooting whose motives remain shrouded in uncertainty. David StubbsPrimal Survivor8pm, National GeographicThis week on Primal Survivor, it’s a “killer climb” for survival expert Hazen Audel, as he attempts to trek across the savannah and summit the 7,000ft peak of Ol Doinyo Lengai, an active volcano, in a three-day expedition-cum-pilgrimage using only the tools and ancient techniques of the Maasai tribesfolk of eastern Africa. He carries with him an offering to the Maasai god of goat meat wrapped in hide. It’s not long before he encounters some seriously dangerous wildlife, including hippos and a herd of bull elephants. Ben ArnoldToday’s best live sportCycling: Tour Of Andalusia Coverage of stage two of the tour, which was won by Great Britain’s Chris Froome last year. 2.30pm, Eurosport 2Europa League Football: FC Midtjylland v Manchester United United join the knockout stages of Europe’s second-tier cup competition. Fiorentina v Tottenham is on BT Sport Europe at 6pm, followed by Augsburg v Liverpool. 5.30pm, BT Sport 2Premier League Darts Third-round action from Dublin, featuring Phil Taylor v Gary Anderson. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Film choiceThe Lost World(Irwin Allen, 1960) 4.30pm, Film4These dinosaurs were pretty wild at the time, but look tame compared to today’s computer-generated specimens. Claude Rains stars as Conan Doyle’s other hero, Professor Challenger, leading a motley band of dino hunters up the Amazon, pretty much without a paddle. Jill St John, Michael Rennie and David Hedison are among the monster bait. Paul HowlettDirty Harry (Don Siegel, 1971) 11.25pm, ITV4The first appearance of Clint Eastwood’s zero-tolerance cop Harry Callahan set a new yardstick for the detective movie, and few measure up to his .44 Magnum. Eastwood gives a performance of steely minimalism: a man of few words, dispatching “punks” while munching on a hotdog. Siegel’s direction, tight and tough, is exemplary. Paul Howlett