It was the week that television went back to the 90s: first pictures of the reunited Cold Feet cast, returning to ITV this spring after a 13-year absence, vying for attention with an announcement that the cast of Friends would reunite for a TV special paying tribute to veteran producer James Burrows.Nostalgia has played a part in fans’ over-excited reaction. But it is also testament to the power of these television shows that placed friendships centre-screen, becoming phenomenons as a result.In the decade since Friends ended, the idea of ‘friends as family’ that captured huge audiences and made its cast stars has become the default mode of US sitcoms – influencing everything from The Mindy Project and New Girl to the more ribald Girls and It’s Always Sunny In Philadelphia – essentially a darkest timeline version of FriendsThere has been a sense, too, of British television searching for another drama able to communicate the warmth and complexity of friendships like Cold Feet. Steve November, ITV’s director of drama, admits the decision to return to the Cold Feet crew was born in part from attempts to find another show that captured its cosy feeling of hanging out with mates. “We kept having conversations about could this be the new Cold Feet? Why isn’t there a new Cold Feet, what’s the next Cold Feet?” said November. “After a while it became obvious that you didn’t need the new Cold Feet because we had the old one. The characters were still there – it’s just life that’s moved on. So then we started talking about how interesting it would be to catch up with those characters and see what that meant for them all.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Cold Feet cast back in the 90s. Photograph: Granada TVIt’s also true that the appeal of Friends and Cold Feet comes in part from a hankering for an easier era – when friendships were built in pubs and coffee-shops, rather than through social media, and Chandler and Joey’s large Manhattan apartment or Rachel and Adam’s tastefully-furnished Didsbury home, seemed less unfeasible. “I adored all those shows – Friends, Cold Feet, This Life – they all had such heart and pain running through them as well as being so funny,” said writer and actress Phoebe Waller-Bridge, whose new Channel 4 series Crashing about a disparate gang of twentysomethings owes a clear debt to those 90s hits. “Friends and This Life were particularly present when I was writing as they are slightly closer to the ages of the Crashing gang – they were hugely influential in helping me in working out how to weave multiple characters’ lives together in a believable way.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cast of Friends are to reunite for a TV special in tribute to veteran producer James Burrows. Photograph: PAYet while November is understandably bullish about the success of the new series of Cold Feet, he acknowledges it’s a risky undertaking. “I’d be lying if I said we weren’t nervous,” he says. “Nostalgia will bring in an audience for the first episode but to keep that audience – and to build a new one – we have to have great plots and scripts. Thankfully I’ve seen Mike Bullen’s scripts and I’m wildly excited about them.”The nostalgia generation will remember This Life +10, an ill-advised attempt to return to the BBC’s cult series about twenty-something lawyers, in which what was once sharp and cool was revealed as smug and irrevocably tarnished. Friends co-creator Marta Kauffman is adamant that Friends will never return as a fully-fledged show. “There will never be a Friends reunion movie,” she told US press last week. “It was about that time in your life when your friends are your family – once you have a family there’s no need any more.”Waller-Bridge agrees that revisiting the past doesn’t always pay off. “Peeking under the sheets of other people’s relationships will never get old but going back is as good an idea as jumping back into bed with a dishy ex,” she says. “Sometimes it relights a long-yearned-for fire … sometimes it’s a horrific, messy reminder of why you both decided to move on in the first place. It’s tempting but it’s not without risk.”• Crashing is on Channel 4 on Mondays at 10pm. Cold Feet returns to ITV later this year.