Morrissey has addressed the US presidential race after the Orlando terror attack, blaming US gun laws on the incident and citing Donald Trump’s reaction to the massacre as “anti-gay”. The open letter, which was published on Morrissey’s fansite True to You, details the political reaction to the massacre at an Orlando nightclub in which 49 people were murdered, referencing in particular, Trump’s lack of support for the gay community. He wrote:  Donald Thump, probably America’s next president, reacts to the Orlando massacre by explaining how, if the people within the club were themselves armed with guns, then there would have been fewer casualties. This, of course, is his way of avoiding any words of support to the Orlando gay community (it is their own fault for going into a nightclub without hand grenades). Donald Thump would therefore probably claim that the massacred children of Sandy Hook would still be alive today if only they’d had the common sense to carry sawn-off shotguns to school. The Thump response to Orlando is therefore anti-gay and pro gun possession … It’s all going so well for America!Morrissey questioned CNN’s coverage of the Orlando gunman, Omar Mateen – which he calls a “flashing flood of publicity”. Responding to coverage of “selfie” images of Mateen that have circulated online, Morrissey wrote:  It is therefore acceptable for him to lovingly admire his own maleness, but it is not OK for other men to like other men? Does Islamic scripture say it is fitting for a man to sit alone taking adoring photographs of himself?” The former Smiths frontman also praised the “independent success” of Democratic contender Bernie Sanders, whom he contrasts to Hillary Clinton. He describes her as “the face and voice of pooled money”. Morrissey predicted that the presumptive Democratic candidate would “repay the established elite with whatever they want if she is elected” and compared Trump to the former Alabama governor George Wallace for “hating just about anyone who doesn’t happen to be Donald Thump”.Describing Sanders as “sane and intelligent” he added:  The idea of a man who is popular because he calls for world peace and for rescue of the environment cannot provide outraged headlines for CNN, who have devoted their online news page to Donald Thump long before Thump was even a logical contender. Thump doing absolutely nothing has been more newsworthy to CNN than Sanders’ state-to-state victories.”