An original copy of David Bowie’s second album has become the most expensive record ever sold on the record collectors’ site Discogs.The original UK pressing of the 1969 album David Bowie – which was later retitled Space Oddity – fetched $6,826 (£4,722), beating the record set in 2015 by Chung King Can Suck It, a limited-edition 12in by the New York band Judge, a copy of which sold for $6,048 (£4,183).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Money maker … the cover of the album that broke the Discogs record. Photograph: Publicity imageThe high price is almost certainly related to Bowie’s death earlier this year. “As morbid as it sounds, there is usually a bump in sales in the marketplace for a given artist when they pass,” said Ron Rich, Discog’s marketing director. “Collectors look to grab that piece of history, they want to own that a piece of the story. There are a finite number of that album and even fewer that were released under the title David Bowie – find one in good condition and you can relive that moment when you first listened to it. It’s tough to put a monetary value on that.”A posting on Discogs’ blog noted that the buyer was unknown. “I’m not sure where this expensive record is going. I don’t know who is looking after it now. But I hope, wherever it is, it’s being treasured in whatever way the buyer finds appropriate. I hope that future generations will be able to grab it off the shelf and give it a listen, and I hope the first time they start side one they get completely swept away in the story of a man who was looking back at his home planet at a time when that still seemed like a tenuous proposition. Above all else, I hope that David Bowie’s art continues to matter, because he certainly put a lot of himself in all of those songs. I want to see that part of him echo forward.”David Bowie's last days: an 18-month burst of creativity Though the sum paid for the Bowie album seems like a lot, it falls far short of the prices paid for other records. Even leaving aside the $2m Martin Shkreli shelled out for the single copy of Wu Tang Clan’s Once Upon a Time in Shaolin last year, other rare editions have gone for sums that would buy you financial security. Ringo Starr’s copy of the Beatles’ White Album – numbered 0000001 – sold for $790,000 (£546,500) in December 2015. But even commercially available releases with no celebrity connections can fetch huge prices. A few early pressings of Bob Dylan’s The Freewheelin’ Bob Dylan contained four tracks that the singer replaced on subsequent editions, and a copy of that has sold for $35,000.