TheatreRight NowOur top play this week starts off in domestic comedy but quickly spirals somewhere else as a young couple become entangled with their mysterious neighbours. Coming to Edinburgh for the first time, Right Now by the Québécois Catherine-Anne Toupin is both thrilling and more than a little unsettling.Music DrakeThere’s something about a man with an immaculately groomed beard. Or at least there’s something about Drake, the current king of hip-hop, whose much-awaited album Views From The 6 finally has a release date, 29 April. The Toronto native has been drip-feeding us new music for a year now, which made some wonder if he felt the need to make an album at all. Latest track Pop Style features suitably celebrated co-stars in Kanye West and Jay Z.TVUnbreakable Kimmy Schmidt   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Guardian’s best series of 2015 shows little sign of fatigue in its second season. If anything, Tina Fey and Robert Carlock’s Netflix sitcom is even more exuberantly at odds with its potentially gloomy premise, featuring as it does Ellie Kemper – a riot of colour and enthusiasm as abduction survivor turned NYC naif Kimmy. Even if you struggle with Fey and Carlock’s snarky comedy, it’s worth tuning in for Titus Burgess, handed the best putdowns as Kimmy’s gay roommate Titus Andromedon. Unbreakable!Film Eisenstein in GuanajuatoOne visionary doffs his beret to another as Peter Greenaway tells the story of the Russian auteur’s journey through Mexico and an extended engagement with dreaded capitalists.Music Record Store DayQueuing up for exorbitantly priced vinyl reissues is now a spring staple to match spotting the year’s first daffodils. And this year’s Record Store Day looks bigger and more overwhelming than ever. The vinyl offerings are the usual mix of essential and opportunistic: for every tasty Roots Manuva exclusive, there’s a superfluous picture disc of Space’s 1996 opus Spiders to clog up the world’s pressing plants. But it’s always a fun way to be reminded that the best record shops are more than just retail facilities; they can be true community hubs.TV Shakespeare’s Legacy With John Nettles   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What finer tribute to the bard than a bit of Nettles? He unearths the truth about Shakespeare’s personal life as part of the 400th anniversary of his death. At least that’s what we’re told is going to happen. Surely, though, it’s all just cover for Jim Bergerac finding a time machine and heading back to Stratford to find out who really wrote those plays. Spoiler alert: it was Charlie Hungerford in an earlier life.Music NaoA high placing on the BBC’s Sound of (insert year here) poll isn’t always a guarantee of talent, or indeed success; just ask this year’s winner, Jack Garratt, currently languishing at No 76 in the album charts. But Nao, who finished third in this year’s predict-a-thon, looks to have the goods regardless. The east Londoner’s early releases have fused electronics with soul in a way that sounds exciting rather than an attempt for relevance. This is partly down to the producers she’s worked with – including AK Paul, brother of Jai – but also a natural accompaniment to her voice, a falsetto with an otherworldly quality that’s usually only achieved by the studied application of software. Catch the voice on tour around the UK this week.Art Glasgow International      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   QE3, by Lawrence Lek , part of Glasgow InternationalNow on its seventh outing, this festival continues in its mission to articulate the state of contemporary art, all the while making it accessible to as many people as possible. Shows across the city will feature original commissions from artists both international and local with an emphasis on a connection to place. Garlanded young digital artist Lawrence Lek imagines the final voyage of the QE2, as it returns to its birthplace on the Clyde. Jacob Kerray and George Ziffo create a new series of post-colonial portraits to sit in the empire-age grandeur of the Mitchell Library. Already up and running, the festival continues to 25 April.Dance Balletboyz“Young men on stage, that’s what this evening is about,” says Alistair Spalding of Sadler’s Wells and testosterone-powered dynamic expression is guaranteed from this company formed by two Royal Ballet alumni. The themes are equally hefty: nothing less than the tension between life and death.Design Undressed: A Brief History Of UnderwearLove it or hate it, you can’t live without it. Well, technically, you can but few would advise it. Charting the history of our more intimate garments from the 18th century to the present day, this exhibition at the V&A is likely to be a crowd pleaser. Expect everything from lung-throttling corsets to heavily branded boxer shorts. It seems unlikely that any exhibits will have gone grey in the wash.