Gogglesprogs8pm, Channel 4After airing as a Christmas special, this Gogglebox spin-off – which replaces Leon, June et al with kids – returns for a series. The young commentators are cute, and often very funny, although the laughs do come from a different place than the original. While Gogglebox is one of few reality formats that never feels patronising, here the comedy is fuelled by their bewilderment in the face of Trump, Mamma Mia! and – slightly uncomfortably – the Calais Jungle camp. Rachel AroestiThe Millionaire’s Holiday Club9pm, BBC2Second in the series that’s not quite the slavering, bitchy look at the lives of the super-rich that it seems. Although our three couples are enjoying luxurious holidays in Thailand, Kerala and Barbados, each has an interesting backstory: there’s an elderly couple spending their twilight years “skiing” (spending the kids’ inheritance), tour operators on a fact-finding works freebie and hardworking south London couple Martyn and Richard. David StubbsEurotrash9pm, Channel 4Cometh the hour, cometh De Caunes. As the momentous EU referendum draws increasingly closer, Channel 4’s showcase of Euro eccentricity returns after a decade-long break for a one-off special that reunites French horndog Antoine with his original co-host Jean Paul Gaultier. As well as new segments and live guests – including transgender supermodel Andreja Pejić – there will also be a rummage through the archive for some classic weirdness. Graeme VirtueLove, Nina9.30pm, BBC1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helena Bonham Carter dazzles in Love, Nina. Photograph: Nick Wall/BBC/See-Saw FilmsA chain of mishaps, including crashing the family car and commencing an accidental war of attrition with the cleaner, may finally spell the end for Nina’s nannying career, in the last part of Nick Hornby’s charming adaptation of Nina Stibbe’s memoir. As ever, Helena Bonham Carter dazzles, as the withering north London matriarch George, with her succinct advice for our hapless A-level student: “Be less crap.” Aand there’s a nice little cameo at the end. Lovely. Ali CatterallPowers9pm, SpikeThis strange series set in a world in which regular human authorities struggle to keep the powers of wayward superheroes in check takes a break this week from video game-style action. This episode mostly takes place at a wake at the Powers Division office, a chance to get drunk on product-placed beer and be entertained by grizzly retired cop Waldo Pilgrim, to the embarrassment of his daughter. Meanwhile, Eddie Izzard’s Wolfe makes a shock TV appearance. David StubbsDicte – Crime Reporter9pm, More4The stylish and extremely likable Dicte (Iben Hjejle) is a one-woman Scott & Bailey and this week she’s caught up in a harrowing case involving a newborn baby who died from hypothermia and dehydration. Dicte suspects it’s more than a case of neglect and begins to investigate what she believes is behind it: religious fanaticism. Is she jumping to conclusions or can she drag up her own past to crack the case? Scandi drama at its best. Hannah VerdierNo Such Thing As The News11.05pm, BBC2The self-proclaimed elves from QI and its rather popular spinoff podcast No Such Thing As A Fish continue their new enterprise. James Harkin, Andrew Hunter Murray, Anna Ptaszynski and Dan Schreiber – whose tireless research has ensured the comedy panel quiz show a place in telly history – unearth the most fascinating topical facts from the week’s news stories. Its tone is best described as impish rather than bitingly satirical. Ben ArnoldFilm choiceStraight Outta Compton, (F Gary Gray, 2015), 3.30pm, 8pm, Sky Movies PremiereThe birth and troubled life of South Central Los Angeles’s favourite hip-hop outfit, NWA, gets a pretty traditional treatment in F Gary Gray’s frankly overly respectful biopic, which tucks the misogyny and cocaine firmly out of sight. Still, there’s an edgy, angry energy about the band’s clashes with tricky record companies and the police, plus heartfelt performances from O’Shea Jackson Jr playing his dad, Ice Cube, Corey Hawkins as Dr Dre and Jason Mitchell as Eazy-E. Paul HowlettThe Wicker Man, (Robin Hardy, 1973), 11.30pm, ITV4Staunch Christian policeman Edward Woodward journeys to the remote Scottish island of Summerisle to find a missing girl, but in turn uncovers ancient pagan rites – and wild, wild women Britt Ekland, Diane Cilento and Ingrid Pitt. Anthony Shaffer’s intelligent screenplay slowly builds the sinister, erotic atmosphere: as the deluded Woodward’s suspicions grow, the tone changes from mildly comic to horrific. Add to that the old devil Christopher Lee presiding as a local laird, and it’s hardly surprising to see that this film became a cult classic. PHLive SportTennis: Queen’s 1pm, BBC2The singles quarter-finals commence as the tournament enters its fifth day.Euro 2016 Football: Italy v Sweden 1.30pm, ITVGroup E encounter. Czech Republic v Croatia is on at 4.45pm, BBC1. Spain v Turkey airs 7.30pm, ITV.Golf: US Open 3pm, Sky Sports 4The second day’s play from Oakmont Country Club in Plum, Pennsylvania.