Be in no doubt, the decision to end subsidies for onshore windfarms early is pure politics. Too many Tory voters dislike the look of turbines and their party has delivered for them, whatever the fallout.The Conservatives have every right to do so: the cut was a clear manifesto pledge and it won the general election. But the policy makes a mockery of David Cameron’s pledge to govern for “one nation”. Wind power is overwhelmingly supported by the British people, even when asked about windfarms in their area.The greatest impact of this pandering to a vocal minority is that, in the words of consultancy Savills Energy, it will “destroy investor confidence in renewable infrastructure projects”.This is toxic. Asking investors to stump up the billions of pounds needed to make the UK’s energy system fit for the 21st century is made vastly harder if they think government schemes get ripped up to please a few restless locals. A rise in political risk also puts up the cost of borrowing the money, bumping up all our energy bills. Energy secretary Amber Rudd asserts the opposite, that consumer bills will go down with the subsidy cuts. Without more detail, this is hard to swallow. Onshore wind power is the cheapest low-carbon electricity, so unless lost windfarms are being replaced by high-carbon electricity from coal or gas, bills will go up. Big six energy company Scottish Power puts the additional cost to consumers at £2-3bn. Switching future clean wind power with dirty fossil fuels might be justifiable if, as Rudd asserts, the UK is already on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy. The problem is that the European Commission, which set the target, says the opposite, In a report on Tuesday, the EC said the UK was set to miss the target and should review its policies to get back on track. The wind subsidy cut also came on the very day that the Pope emphasises the moral duty humanity has to act immediately on climate change.The focus on consumer bills is of course important. The UK has woeful levels of fuel poverty. But the cause of that is not subsidies for windfarms and other renewables. The cost of the entire Renewables Obligation subsidy scheme was just £30 a year in 2013, making up just 2.4% of the average bill. The key reasons for energy bills rising in recent years has been international gas prices and the nation’s appallingly leaky homes. A government that really cared about bill would not have watered down energy efficiency measures and low-energy building standards, as the last one did.Along with the subsidy cuts, the government is promising to give local communities the final say over any new windfarms. Whether that is meaningful in reality must be in doubt. In the last government, the Conservative communities secretary - and supposed champion of localism - Eric Pickles took one windfarm planning decision after another away from locals in order to kill the proposal.There is also a stark contrast between the power supposedly being given to local people to ban windfarms - supported by two-thirds of people nationally - and the lack of the same veto for communities facing fracking - supported by about 25% of people. So it seems people can only be trusted with local energy decisions if they agree with the government. As I said, it’s pure politics.There’s one last factor that seals the case for this windfarm vandalism being nothing more than vote chasing. The number of windfarms likely to be affected by the subsidy cut and the local veto is not yet known. It may turn out to be very few. In that case, this whole shouting match has been simple posturing to please a minority of shire Tories. But the cost of this posturing to the UK in terms of shattered investor confidence will be heavy.You don’t need to take my word for it. Here’s Katja Hall, deputy director-general of the level-headed Confederation of British Industry: “Cutting the Renewables Obligation scheme early sends a worrying signal about the stability of the UK’s energy policy framework. This is a blow, not just to the industry, and could damage our reputation as a good place to invest in energy infrastructure.”