He was in love but she was promised to another and it was driving him mad. It was the spring of 1970 and Eric Clapton was besotted with former model Pattie Boyd but she was married to George Harrison. The former Beatle and the guitarist were close friends but Clapton found he could not stop thinking about Boyd. It was during this time that a friend, Ian Dallas, who had converted to Islam and taken the name Shaykh Abdalqadir, gave Clapton a book by the Persian writer Nizami which told an ancient story about a poet who falls in mad love with a beautiful girl whom he is forbidden to marry. The poet is so consumed by desire that he is dubbed “Majnun” – the madman. Clapton read the story, saw in it an echo of his own romantic predicament, and was inspired to write a song for Boyd that explained how he felt. “Let’s make the best of the situation before I finally go insane,” he sings, “please don’t say we’ll never find a way and tell me all my love’s in vain.” One afternoon Clapton took Boyd to a flat in South Kensington and told her he wanted her listen to the song he had written. He switched on the tape machine and played what she would later describe as “the most powerful, moving song I had ever heard”. It was named after the girl in the story by Nizami, the girl who had driven the poet mad, the pet name Clapton would give Boyd: Layla.Old music: Derek and the Dominos – Layla Clapton’s song, which he recorded with Derek and the Dominos is probably the best known appearance in the west of Layla, but in Muslim cultures the story of Layla and Majnun is the oldest and most famous of all love stories. There are various versions of it, but at its core is a tale of star-crossed young lovers. A boy called Qays falls in love with Layla – sometimes spelt Laila or Leyli – when they are both at school. He looks at her and sees “a jewel such as one sees but seldom. She was as slender as a cypress tree. Her eyes, like those of a gazelle, could have pierced a thousand hearts with a single unexpected glance, yes, with one flicker of her eyelashes she could have slain a whole world.” Layla and Qays belong to different tribes and her father forbids any contact, leaving Qays to become obsessed with her. “From afar, people pointed at him and said: there goes Majnun, the madman, the crazy one, who was once called Qays,” writes Nizami, “he heaps shame and dishonour on himself and his people.” Qays is driven mad and wanders naked in the desert while Layla is married against her will but resists her husband’s advances and arranges secret meetings with Majnun. When Layla’s husband dies, Majnun is so focused on his ideal picture of Layla that he runs away to the desert. She dies from grief and is buried in her bridal dress. Hearing this news Majnun rushes to her grave and he too dies –they are buried side by side and their graves become a site of pilgrimage.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Eric Clapton’s ‘Layla’It is thought the story originated in Arabia in the seventh century with scattered anecdotes about a semi-historical poet called Qays. It was popularised by Nizami, who lived in Azerbaijan in the 12th century. Nizami, writing in Persian, created a narrative that took the stories about Qays but wove them into a story that conformed to the style of Persian poetry of the time. It later spread across the region from Greece to Turkey to India – there is a shrine in Rajasthan that is claimed to be where the couple are buried – to Iran and Morocco, retold in paintings, films, operas, songs and theatre. It was adapted by Benjamin Disraeli’s father in the late 18th century and staged as an opera, Kais, or Love in the Deserts: An Opera in Four Acts, at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. The first translation of the romance was an abridged verse rendition by James Atkinson published in 1836 – and it was this version that Dallas lent Clapton. The latest retelling is a stage production, Laila: the Musical, which opens this week at Watford Palace theatre ahead of a national tour.The play begins in modern-day Bradford. A young woman called Laila is running away from her family because she is in love with a man but her father wants her to marry someone else. There is a storm raging and so she takes refuge in a bookshop where she comes across the story of Layla and Majnun and enters a fantasy world. The location moves from Bradford to ancient Arabia and her family take on the characters in the old story. The question facing today’s Layla is stark: will her fate be the same as that of her namesake? When the producers of the musical were trying to book theatres they faced resistance because the people they had to convince were unfamiliar with the story. “It surprises me that more people in the west do not know of Layla and Majnun,” says Pravesh Kumar, writer and director of the new stage version. “Is it because our culture is not seen as important to the west? We know Romeo and Juliet but they don’t know about Layla and Majnun.” Layla and Majnun predates Romeo and Juliet by a thousand years and it is thought by some that it is inconceivable that the earlier love story did not inspire the later one. “There are so many similarities,” says Kumar, “the two warring tribes, the star-crossed lovers, the climbing up of balconies and the ending – there are too many similarities for it to be an accident.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch ‘Laila O Laila’My first introduction to the story was through a song called “Laila O Laila” that appears in an Indian film from the early 80s. When my daughter was born I wanted to name her Laila – largely because of the story of Layla and Majnun – but when I told other Muslims they expressed reservations. In Layla and Majnun there is a sense that Qays the poet is a helpless victim of Layla’s intoxicating beauty. In the past, Layla has been depicted as a dangerous temptress and that association persists to this day – that was why some were nervous about me naming my daughter after the character in the tale. (We still did.) Layla and Majnun is about love, madness and honour – it asks should you honour your heart or the will of your parents Layla and Majnun is a story of love, madness and honour – it asks whether it is more important to honour your heart or to honour the will of your parents. Majnun’s family, in trying to dissuade him from loving Layla ask, “Why do you worship only this girl? Look around among the girls of your own tribe. Find a companion who will be a comfort to you instead of torturing your heart, a girl like milk and honey, worthy of you. Let the foreigner go!” This may have been written in the 12th century, but it sounds dismayingly similar to what Asian parents are telling their sons and daughters today. “On the face of it we are a modern multicultural society,” says Kumar, “but when the doors are closed we are still forcing girls to marry their cousins, we are still twisting the arms of boys and taking them to Pakistan and India.”When Boyd heard Clapton’s recording of “Layla” she said: “The song got the better of me. With the realisation that I had inspired such passion and such creativity. I could resist no longer.” Boyd would later marry Clapton. They were able to carve out a happy ending but the story of Layla and Majnun is as much tragedy as love story. It deserves to be better known in the west because it is a timeless reminder that love and desire have always been with us, regardless of country or culture, and so have hate and intolerance. “That old world has not gone,” says Kumar, “I would love for it to be gone but, by staging this musical, I am holding up a mirror to our community and saying why are we still doing this?”Laila: the Musical is at Watford Palace theatre from 2 April. Box office: 01923 225671. Then touring. See rifcoarts.com for details.