English cities and towns left without planned flood defences by government cuts will now get the projects after a surprise £540m boost in funding in Wednesday’s budget. The north of England, devastated by winter floods, will get at least £150m of the new money, giving better protection for thousands of homes.The Guardian had revealed that 294 projects in line for funding were left stranded after heavy cuts by David Cameron’s coalition government and exposed a series of places that were later flooded. These included Leeds and Kendal, which were submerged in recent winter storms. Both places will now get new defences.The new funding, plus another £160m over the next five years for maintenance of defences, was delivered despite Cameron having long insisted the government was spending large amounts on flood defences. As recently as January, environment secretary Liz Truss said there was no more money available to protect Leeds.But on Thursday, Truss said: “Thanks to this additional funding, communities across the north will be better protected from the devastating effects of the sort of extreme weather we saw in December. By delivering improved flood defences and looking at what more we can do to slow the flow of flood waters across whole catchments we are doing more than ever before to protect Yorkshire and Cumbria.”The new money, funded by an increase in insurance premium tax, was widely welcomed. The government had been warned by a series of official bodies that flood risk was rising due to inadequate spending and was costing billions of pounds in damages. Government scientists have long warned that more severe flooding is the greatest impact of climate change in the UK. “It is obviously good news for those communities affected,” said Mary Creagh MP, chair of the Environmental Audit Committee. “But we knew six years ago that flood defences were needed in York, Leeds, Cumbria and Calderdale. It is tragic it has taken the government so long to wake up to this fact.”“The scale and extent of the floods in December and January showed the gap between the government’s rhetoric and the reality on the ground,” she said. “Osborne had no choice but to act.”Daniel Johns, head of adaptation at the Committee on Climate Change, the government’s official advisers, said: “This is a significant and unexpected boost to flood defence expenditure over the next five years, more than making up for the underinvestment over the last parliament.”He said the rise in maintenance spending was “odd” given that the government had until now claimed there would be no benefit in increasing it. Johns had called previous government claims of increased spending “essentially meaningless”. But he warned that flood defences are not the whole solution: “In parallel we need to think more strategically about how to manage the landscape and river catchments in ways that hold back and store flood water where it can do least damage.”Leeds suffered flooding in areas that would have had protection from defences that were part of the original 2011 plan. The new money means these defences, north of the railway station and protecting 579 properties, will go ahead with £35m of the £65m total being spent by 2021.Kendal, which had been in line for a £4m scheme, has now got funding. Local MP and Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron said. “The scheme has been repeatedly kicked into the long grass. The government is now announcing again that it will provide funding, but what is needed is action not words.” In total, £33m will be spent on new flood defences in Cumbria, including schemes for Appleby, Wigton and Braithwaite.York, hard hit by recent floods, will get £45m for two schemes on the Rivers Foss and Ouse, providing better protection to 3,390 properties. The Calder Valley receives £35m including new schemes at Hebden Bridge and Mytholmroyd. Carlisle will get up to £25m after the Environment Agency has concluded a review of its needs.The remaining £390m of the new flood defence funding is likely to be spent in other parts of the country. The Guardian has revealed projects left unbuilt in flood hit areas by cuts right across the nation, from Somerset to Dawlish in Devon, to Kent and along the Thames Valley.“We have had severe floods almost every year since 2000 and people in almost every part of the country have been affected,” said Paul Cobbing, chief executive of the National Flood Forum, which represents community flood groups. “It is now clear that we need to raise our level of ambition significantly, so whilst this funding is welcome there is a very great deal more that needs to be done, and quickly.”Cobbing said the impact of flooding driven by extreme weather was getting ever greater: “When you look at the scale of the high risk events, it is absolutely phenomenal.” Flood management plans, from defences to avoiding development in floodplains to slowing water flows, all need to be boosted to a level to match the risk, he said: “It’s is a long way from where we are now.”Kerry McCarthy, Labour’s shadow environment secretary, said the government has slashed Environment Agency staff numbers and funding for research and development to improve flood management: “Ministers must drop their complacency over the need for climate change adaptation and develop a long-term strategy for protecting homes, businesses and communities from the risks of increased flooding in the future.”The government is conducting a National Flood Resilience Review to assess how damaging the rise in extreme weather could be and is also considering how to manage river catchments better.Note: In the original version of this article Croston, Lancashire, was mistakenly placed in Yorkshire’s Calder Valley. 