Here’s the first thing fashion fans need to know about Zoolander 2: while the original Zoolander film was uncannily prescient about the absurdities of the industry – foreseeing the popularity of the onesie and practically inventing the selfie face – Zoolander 2 doesn’t quite feel like a fashion film at all.Aside from a few jokes (the evil Mugatu is holed up in a “fashion prison for the criminally insane and really out there”) and a load of cameos (Marc Jacobs, Anna Wintour, Jourdan Dunn, Tommy Hilfiger, Alexander Wang, Kate Moss ...), this is mainly a jolly action adventure featuring two comically stupid protagonists. On close watching, however, a few choice nuggets of fashion truth do emerge ...      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kristen Wiig as Alexanya Atoz in Zoolander 2, chasing everlasting youth. Photograph: Wilson Webb/AP1. The fashion industry can laugh at itself ... ... but only about very specific, non-contentious things, presumably agreed upon in advance via contract.Consider that the first Zoolander film opened with a man named Giorgio and a woman with a sharp bob and sunglasses plotting to kill the Malaysian prime minister in order to protect the industry’s ability to use cheap child labour. Ouch. This time around – with Anna Wintour, Kate Moss and a raft of other fashion people on board – the industry’s evil plan is much sillier: achieving everlasting youth. And as anyone who has witnessed the facelifts and botoxed brows gathered at fashion shows will attest, that’s not caustic satire, that’s standard industry behaviour.2. True fashion jokes won’t make everyone laughThe outrageous “fashion” clothes in both Zoolander films feel far more like fancy dress than the grey marl and scruffy trainers most designers actually wear. This makes Zoolander 2’s one authentic style moment all the more enjoyable: Mugatu wears Craig Green – one of London’s most conceptual menswear designers, beloved of serious fashion critics and FKA twigs – in an amusing cult reference that made approximately five people in my screening room laugh (while no one else noticed). Perhaps that is what’s known as throwing fashion people a bone.3. The beard is the window to the soulIn 2001, long before the phrase peak beard was conceived, Zoolander’s male models were universally clean shaven, all the better to show off their chiseled cheekbones. But this has been a busy decade for beards, as Zoolander 2 acknowledges. First, they were fashionable; then too fashionable. Now, from the achievement beard to the “sleeping in his car” beard, facial hair is deemed to be laden with meaning; great significance is imparted by every variation of shape, whisker and heft. So when Derek goes off the rails he sports a faint, straggly five o’clock shadow born of anguish. When he moves to a hut in the wilderness (a self-imposed exile that only feels desperate if you are unaware – as presumably Zoolander 2’s scriptwriters are – of how hot log cabins are right now) he has a grey-streaked Ming the Merciless goatee that speaks, appropriately, of a complete lack of aesthetic vigilance.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benedict Cumberbatch as All, left, and Kyle Mooney as Don Atari. Photograph: Wilson Webb/AP4. Fashion is in the midst of a generational culture clashZoolander 2’s most accurate industry commentary comes as Derek and Hansel are faced with the unbearably annoying young “designer-mogul-dude” Don Atari. Atari deals in so many layers of irony that it is never possible to know what he’s getting at, saying things like “I hate you, you make me sick, I love you”, much to the bafflement of our admittedly easily baffled middle-aged heroes. The much-discussed scene with Atari’s muse, Benedict Cumberbatch’s All, however, is less successful. Including a transgender model highlights a genuine recent development in the industry, but the delivery feels clumsy and rude. The intention may have been to demonstrate that Hansel and Zoolander are out of touch but the results highlight the same not-too-fabulous quality in the film’s creators.5. Fashion people can’t act ...... and the hierarchy of celebrity cameos is truly bizarre. Guest appearances veer from Kate Moss, flashed across the screen for a split second, to Susan Boyle, seven years after she could be considered part of the zeitgeist. But the seminal cameo moment is actually rather brilliant, involving a cabal of fashion people gathered, like Voldemort’s Death Eaters, for a mysterious ceremony. There’s an alarmingly bronzed Valentino Garavani, the winningly named “Marc by Marc Jacobs”, a hilariously stilted Anna Wintour and a hammy Tommy Hilfiger, the subject of a joke I won’t ruin for you that feels pretty close to the bone. It’s bizarre and wooden – a kind of Eyes Wide Shut worst actor competition for fashion people – and it works because you can’t quite tell whether this lot are entirely in on the joke or not.