An important 15th-century devotional painting that ministers last year temporarily barred from being sold abroad is to remain in the UK.The Bowes Museum at Barnard Castle, County Durham, announced it had secured sufficient funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF), the Art Fund and private donors to acquire St Luke Drawing the Virgin and Child, attributed to the workshop of Dieric Bouts the Elder, a painter considered one of the finest and most influential painters from a golden period of Flemish art.It has paid £2.3m for a work deemed an important British cultural asset, with comparable examples not existing anywhere else in the UK.Adrian Jenkins, the director of the museum, said: “During the 15th century, Netherlandish paintings were admired all over Europe for their visual sophistication, imagination and invention, and those by Bouts and his workshop were no exception. “This work exhibits all of those characteristics and we are extremely pleased to have secured its long-term future in the UK.”The Bowes also announced it had struck up a partnership with York Art Gallery and Bristol Museum & Art Gallery, venues to which the painting will travel in 2018.The recently appointed culture minister, Matt Hancock, welcomed the acquisition. He said: “It’s fantastic news that this stunning painting will remain in the UK for the public to see. I’m delighted that the export deferral has allowed this outstanding work of art to find a new home at the Bowes Museum.”The privately owned painting was in the collection of the National Trust’s Penrhyn Castle before it was sold to an overseas buyer. Most of the funding to buy it for the nation came from the HLF – and by extension National Lottery ticket buyers. It contributed £1.99m.The plan is for the painting to be scientifically investigated and conserved in a project led by staff at the National Gallery. It will then be displayed at the Bowes, followed by the National Gallery, then York and Bristol. It will then become part of the Bowes permanent collection.Stephen Deuchar, the director of the Art Fund, said the art-historical significance of the subject was considerable. ”There is nothing like it in any other UK collection,” he said. “It’s a great coup for the Bowes Museum, and we were happy to help. We are particularly supportive of their plan to show the work at other UK museums, as well as at the Bowes, in the years to come.”