We’re not yet into summer, but already this year, the cinema-going public has made two things abundantly clear to Hollywood: it likes its comedy profane, and it prefers pixels to humans.Deadpool, Ryan Reynolds’ foul-mouthed and wildly irreverent superhero flick, shocked the industry in February by scoring the highest opening of all time for an R-rated film. A month later it became the biggest R-rated success of all time. In the US, it’s so far amassed a staggering $361m (£246m), significantly more than the PG-13-rated comic book movie Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, which boasts a larger budget and more recognisable characters. Worldwide, Deadpool has beaten Batman v Superman – but the former was banned in China, significantly impacting its overall revenue.Seth Rogen's animated film Sausage Party is provocative food for thought Trailing Deadpool by a small margin domestically, but eclipsing it worldwide, is Zootopia, Disney’s 3D PG-rated family animated comedy. It’s a Frozen-style hit for the Mouse House, close to grossing $1b across the globe.Negating the critically reviled Batman v Superman, Deadpool and Zootopia are the year’s biggest hits so far. They’re also among the best reviewed entertainments to come out in 2016. It’s little wonder, therefore, that Seth Rogen’s upcoming hard-R foray into animation, Sausage Party, is so keenly anticipated.The summer release about a sausage named Frank who embarks on a horrifying voyage of self-discovery, combines state-of-the-art CGI with Rogen’s brand of crass humour to deliver a mainstream animated comedy, the likes of which audiences haven’t seen since Trey Parker and Matt Stone tested the MPAA’s boundaries with South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut and Team America: World Police. In crude terms, Sausage Party essentially boils down to: Deadpool and Zootopia had a baby.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rogen and co-writer Evan Goldberg (they previously collaborated on This Is the End and The Interview) caused a sensation at the SXSW film festival in March, after unveiling an unfinished version of their raucous comedy to fans. The advance word of mouth (Variety hailed it as “a madcap crazy salad of industrial-strength raunch and Tex Avery-level visual inventiveness”), coupled with the intense buzz ignited by its red band trailer (it’s already been watched over 7m times on YouTube), signals that Sausage Party is poised to do blockbuster-level business when it opens.Key to Sausage Party’s appeal is its uniqueness. By industry standards, the project is an anomaly – much like Deadpool, one of the few comic book movies aimed strictly at adults. Hollywood hasn’t churned out an R-rated comedic animated gamble since 2004’s Team America: World Police, and Sausage Party is the first to be computer generated (Charlie Kaufman’s beloved Anomalisa, while animated and R-rated, is strictly a drama.) Rogen and co are no doubt banking that general audiences are clamouring for something fresh. Deadpool becomes highest-grossing R-rated film of all time It appears that other A-listers are too. Oscar-winner Jamie Foxx is in early talks to headline The Happytime Murders, a Jim Henson Company comedy that will combine live action with puppetry, according to Deadline. Like Sausage Party, it’s expected to garner an R-rating. Foxx would play a LAPD cop tasked with solving the mystery behind the murders of a group of puppet stars that don’t get along. Paul Rudd and Patton Oswalt recently debuted the hand-drawn adult-skewed cartoon Nerdland at the Tribeca film festival. The Hollywood-set story about an aspiring screenwriter (Oswalt) and actor (Rudd) who make a last-ditch effort to achieve fame before they hit 30 didn’t was not as well received as Sausage Party with festival-goers. “Its R-rated qualities hardly give it much distinction simply for standing apart from the market standard,” wrote Eric Kohn for Indiewire.Meanwhile, Jeffrey Tambor, Sam Rockwell and John Leguizamo are all hoping to lend their voices to The Adventures of Drunky, an R-rated animated feature from a Brooklyn-based indie studio that’s turned to Indiegogo to crowdfund the wacky project. As the title suggests, the comedy centres on a boozehound who somehow gets stuck in the middle of a bet between God and Satan.“Animation has existed for almost as long as live-action films, and in that time, there have been so many live-action genres, while animated movies have generally been 95% kids’ movies,” The Adventures of Drunky director, Aaron Augenblick, told io9. “But I believe that there’s a new wave of animated features that are just on the horizon that I’d be happy to be a part of.”Sausage Party opens on 12 August in the US.