Ralph Fiennes struts like a chicken, shimmies his bum, communes with the Mediterranean sun. In the film A Bigger Splash, he plays Harry, a music producer who erupts into the summer retreat of a rock star played by Tilda Swinton – and his impromptu dance to the Rolling Stones’ Emotional Rescue establishes him as a disruptive, disarming life force.This short, luminous sequence was created with Fiennes by the questing theatre choreographer Ann Yee. Speaking on the phone from Ohio, Yee insists this is her first ever interview, but her unforced eloquence makes it clear how she establishes a connection with actors. When she began working with Fiennes, nothing was fixed. “We didn’t know what the number would be until we filmed it,” she admits. “There was a great moment in London when Luca [Guadagnino, the director] said, ‘I need you just to play.’ We were in a studio, and I sent Luca little videos of our explorations. There was one where Ralph disappeared behind a curtain – Luca was, like, ‘That’s genius! I’m putting it in the film.’” It is indeed a jolt to see Fiennes pop out, the holiday’s jack-in-the-box.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I don’t want to be a dictator, a tyrant, a bully’ … Ann Yee. Photograph: Johan PerssonFiennes has described Yee as “this great spirit”, while Guadagnino considers her work as “psychoanalytic choreography.” Harry seems to be the holiday’s life and soul, but also its lonely heart of darkness. You sense it as his dance comes to an end. “It’s a very simple move that you’ll have seen a million times,” Yee says. “He flings his arms wide, like Jesus on the cross, and the sun hits his face – and you can’t help but imagine what he’s feeling.”Fiennes admits: “I like making an arse of myself on the dancefloor.” So how do you help a non-dancer speak through his body? “Every actor is different,” Yee says. “I open my mind and go: where is this person’s availability? I see what they’ve got, and I always tell them, ‘Let me be very clear – nothing you do is wrong, or a mistake.’” Fiennes, she confirms, “doesn’t consider himself a dancer, but his connection to his body is profound”.Fiennes sought out Yee after seeing her release another actor into transfixing movement. In 2014, Andrew Scott played an increasingly unhinged rock star in Simon Stephens’ Birdland at the Royal Court, and much of his glittering charisma radiated through dance – a feral shuttle you could feel in your bones. “I wanted to know who got him to look that good,” Fiennes said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘She threw a few shapes at me’ … Fiennes on seeing Yee’s work on stage in LondonScott looked so fine that I assumed the snake-hipped skills were all his own, but Yee says: “Andrew did not think he was a dancer. But he trusted me. I have done so many different forms of movement, so I can go, ‘Here, what about this tool?’ and feel confident that I have whatever they need. We worked on a skeleton of movement sequences and ideas, so that he had a freedom of movement within a structure.”Yee does far more than coax actors into throwing new shapes. She has worked on major musicals (The Commitments), full-throated opera in Salzburg and new writing such as the delirious cult hit Mr Burns at the Almeida, in London. It is, she accepts, “such an eclectic career. I feel super fortunate – I don’t know of another choreographer who has straddled so many versions of it”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jenna Russell, centre, with the cast of Mr Burns at the Almeida. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianFrom Ohio, in the midwestern US, Yee grew up in a family of five children. She left for Europe planning to start her own contemporary dance company. “I was also really into text and movement, so thought I should work with a theatre director.” A happy meeting with Daniel Kramer (now artistic director at English National Opera) led to her working with him on Woyzeck at the Gate in Notting Hill and a career in British theatre. “It was really lucky. It’s a combination of opportunity and perseverance.”One reason for her diverse, zigzagging career path may be an openness to what might come. I mention the freelancer’s tic of saying yes to almost everything, but she says it’s more than expediency. “There are artists on this planet who go: I know what art I need to make … What emerged [for me] was the kind of person I want to be. I want to be the kind of person in a room that allows for creativity: I don’t want to be a dictator, a tyrant, a bully.”We saw choreography as coercion in PPE, a bristling film in the Guardian’s series of microplays with the Royal Court in London. Created with director Hamish Pirie and playwright Tim Price over only a couple of days (“We were making split-second decisions”), it distilled our disenchantment with professional politics, corralling citizens into a routine of faux-accessible gestures. Not a word was spoken – but, Yee maintains, “the body has a language which is as valuable and articulate as the language in our mouths”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  PPE: a microplay about politics by the Guardian and the Royal CourtEven when that language is by Britain’s greatest writer, Yee can help make it sing. She is a key collaborator on Phyllida Lloyd’s trilogy of all-female Shakespeares, set in a women’s prison. Julius Caesar (2012) and Henry IV (2014) will be followed this autumn by The Tempest. Casts led by Harriet Walter claim a language of power in word and fraught movement. “Each play gives you something to chew on,” says Yee, “politics, betrayal, legacy, ownership. They all get pretty hot.”Although Yee anticipates the day when no one bats an eyelash at all-female Shakespeare, Lloyd’s productions liberate his power-grab plays. “Phyllida is definitely one of a kind,” Yee adds. “A combination of curiosity, discovery, passion and point of view.” Their latest collaboration is the toxic non-romcom of The Taming of the Shrew, staged in New York’s Central Park with Janet McTeer and Cush Jumbo. Yee steers the abusive story towards a riotous finale set to Joan Jett’s Bad Reputation. “Whew!” exhaled Ben Brantley in the New York Times. “[The cast’s] relief at finally being unconfined lights up the night.”Yee deflects any compliments to the “phenomenal performers” she collaborates with. “I would go to the depths of the ocean for these actors,” she says. “I’m still really curious about other human beings … The work that sought me out is the work I wanted to do. I’ve just had the best ride.”A Bigger Splash is available on DVD and Blu-Ray from 27 June.