What if Al Gore had won the 2000 election? What if the Aztecs had developed gunpowder before the Europeans? What if you could go back in time and kill baby Hitler?Counterfactual history is fun, provocative – and it’s enjoying a cultural moment. Amazon’s The Man in the High Castle television series, directed by Ridley Scott, imagines a world in which the Nazis won the second world war. Hulu, meanwhile, has a new series based on Stephen King’s novel 11.22.63, which tells the story of a time traveler who returns to the past to foil JFK’s assassination.The sense that counterfactuals are the hip new thing, though, might be contrary to facts. High Castle, after all, is based on a Philip K Dick novel published all the way back in 1963. And counterfactual stories were popular long before the 60s, according to John Rieder, author of Colonialism and the Emergence of Science Fiction.The Man In The High Castle: Philip K Dick's chilling counterfactual fantasy comes to TV “It’s quite an old form, dating back at least to the early 19th century,” Rieder told me. Typically, he said, counterfactuals have set out “to imagine a battle or a war turning out differently (ie Waterloo, Pearl Harbor, Gettysburg). Sometimes the military details are quite specific, the game being to try to find one tiny little detail that, if you change it, affects the entire tide of history afterwards.”Rieder pointed to Louis-Napoléon Geoffroy-Château’s Napoleon and the Conquest of the World, from 1836, as one of the earliest examples of the tradition. As the title says, the book imagines the utopia which would have ensued had Napoleon succeeded in defeating Russia and Britain (most subsequent counterfactual histories haven’t been quite so cheery.)According to Neal Roese, counterfactuals are tuned in to an essential part of human psychology. Roese, the author of If Only: How to Turn Regret Into Opportunity, believes counterfactuals are a basic way of how we understand the world around us.“When we think about what to do next or what goals to form,” Roese said, “we sometimes generate multiple goal pathways, and then we pick from one of them. And then, after the fact, we think about what might have happened differently if we’d taken a different course of action. So it just helps us to understand the world in a more comprehensive way.”Roese also says counterfactuals can serve emotional purposes. You can think about how things could have been worse, and so feel better about yourself, and grateful for where you are. Or you can think about how you messed up, and use that to learn how you might improve things next time you’re faced with a difficult situation.Science-fiction alternative histories can serve a similar function. “There’s lots of lessons you can learn from the past,” Roese said. “For example: ‘Appeasement is bad.’” But you can also phrase it more poetically, and maybe dramatically, by turning it into a counterfactual. If you want to convince someone of something, phrasing it as a counterfactual is powerful, because these counterfactuals have a way of fascinating us.”  Counterfactual targets: Adolf Hitler and John F Kennedy. Composite: Getty Images & Rex featuresBridget Carpenter, the showrunner for 11.22.63, said that for her this was part of the appeal of the story. 11.22.63 is based on a 2011 novel by Stephen King. It tells the story of Jake Epping, a high school teacher who finds a time travel portal in the back of a local diner. The portal opens into 1958 – giving Epping a chance to kill Lee Harvey Oswald and change history.“There’s something that is so appealing, as a human being, about ‘what if?’” Carpenter said. “That’s, for me, how all stories begin. What if he didn’t die? Or what if he wasn’t there during this time then, then what would happen? It’s almost like a domino effect which really sparks off your mind and brain. There’s a kind of loosening.”“And I think that that’s the same spirit that infused time travel stories. You think: if I could only go back in time to last night when I said that stupid thing, or if I could go back to high school and tell that guy I adored him. There’s that wish fulfilment aspect to time travel, and I think it’s that same spirit that goes to ‘what if?’”11.22.63 review – sumptuous Stephen King adaptation bodes well for Hulu What’s especially interesting about 11.22.63 is that it’s a counterfactual story that warns against our fascination with the format. In many counterfactual stories, the protagonist’s knowledge of different outcomes grants a kind of omnipotence. For instance, in the famous Star Trek episode The City on the Edge of Forever, Kirk and Spock know that they must kill an innocent woman to preserve the future. Their counterfactual knowledge is perfect, and therefore they know just what to do to set things right.In 11.22.63, though, Jake is never sure how, or how much, he is changing things. His intention is to do good but intentions don’t always work out. When you start playing with possibilities, things can go awry.Carpenter pointed to the inability to predict counterfactual outcomes as one of the central tensions of the book and the series. “This is one of the very King universe elements – which is that he throws in the wrench that the past does not want to be changed. So if the past feels you trying to make something really different, then it pushes back, and terrible things can happen, and do.“What I love,” she said, “is that there are two contradictory ideas here, and they are both true. And one is: what we do matters. Your actions have consequences, and they matter. And so it’s important to try to do things. And yet, at the same time, history has happened. So to go back and redo it, you’re interfering in a way that should not happen. So it’s the concept that things may happen for a reason. And one of the things that I love about this story is that both of those things are true.”11.22.63, then, points to the power of counterfactuals, for good and bad. They are great because they make such fascinating stories and show what lies down other potential paths. Whichever way they point, though, counterfactuals and ‘what if’ narratives will remain one of our most powerful storytelling tools.Hulu’s 11.22.63 is available to stream from 15 February; The Man in the High Castle is available on Amazon Prime