Berlin street artist Emess walks into the Schau Fenster project space in Kreuzberg with a box of water-soluble spray paint and stencils. Taking off his puffer jacket, he puts on a white T-shirt with a number two printed on its back before starting his shift at Sweat Shop.Bangladesh factory collapse leaves trail of shattered lives This three day art project – part of Gallery Weekend Berlin – coincides with the three-year anniversary of the deadliest garment-factory accident in history, the Rana Plaza disaster in Bangladesh, when a building collapse killed 1,130 people and injured 2,500. A global day of action for safe factories is set for 3 May. In Kreuzberg, curator Jan Kage has invited professional artists who sell in commercial galleries across the city to produce art to order under “sweatshop conditions”.Arriving in an old Mercedes-Benz, which he double parks, Kage strolls in flashing a salesman smile in a white-collared shirt, black slacks, Italian leather shoes and a navy knit sweater made by his mother-in-law. Does he ever wear sweatshop clothes? “I am guilty if we talk guilt,” he says. “But don’t hate the player, hate the game. We’re playing with the sweatshop in an artistic way.”His project responds to art-world economics as much as industrial production in east and west, Kage says. “In Berlin, we have 600 art galleries and only 30 sell. Some people are fascinated by the money side of the art world but don’t care about the art. We play with that in our performance – we concentrate purely on the price.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jan Kage, left, and artist Philip Grözinger. Photograph: Che André Bergendahl/Schau Fenster We’re playing with the sweatshop in an artistic wayJan Kage Kage will play the businessman as he takes orders at the front of the gallery, while four artists at a time shift at desks, each limited to a 4.5 sq m space. He originally wanted to keep participants in the gallery for a week and only give them water and basic food – “real hardcore” as he calls it – but ultimately conceded to six-hour shifts with toilet and lunch breaks.The artists will compete – if one sells well and another doesn’t, their prices will go up. Buyers can order pieces online by sending a jpeg of what they want; orders can only be placed within an hour’s notice of an artist’s shift. You can also order in person at the gallery. No visitors are allowed inside unless they buy, but the artists are visible through the large front windows and via a livestream on the website. A sign on the wall says: “Please think about the subject before you start to order,” with a menu of options: black or white; one, two or three colours; neon or pastel; lines or stripes. The artists will be selling their work for less than its usual market value– paper works start from £31 and canvas works from £78.In a city starved for collectors, participants are taking a calculated professional risk. They could pick up new clientele while destroying the prices their owngallery has set. Artist Philip Grözinger says he isn’t worried about devaluing his work – it’s “part of the project”, he says, not an actual artwork. Each piece will be stamped Sweat Shop on the back.Of the 24 artists participating, nine are women. One, Maja Linke, is seven months pregnant. “We exploit pregnant women here,” says Kage, proudly. “I’m serious about this, but it’s with ‘the wink of an eye.’ It is entertaining and ironic, but not in a ‘funny ironic’ way.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Street artist Emess at Schau Fenster, with Sweat Shop co-organiser Samsarah Lilja Photograph: Che André Bergendahl/Schau Fenster The base value of a single painting in Sweat Shop is more than the average Bangladesh garment worker makes in a monthAndrea Alessi Not everyone gets it. “The art market critique they’re after is clear, and not without precedent, but the sweatshop angle strikes me as ill-conceived, and frankly offensive,” said Andrea Alessi, editor of website ArtSlant. “A six-hour shift sitting at a desk, with natural light pouring through the windows, is ‘sweatshop conditions’? Real sweatshop labourers may be away from their families, earning dollars a day, working 100-hour weeks.”According to anti-sweatshop organisation Clean Clothes, 80% of clothing sweatshop workers are women who toil 96 hours weeks, get no maternity leave and, if single, must sign a contract saying they won’t have kids. Workers risk their lives using dangerous machines and are prone to accidents without safety tools. Those in denim factories also risk lung disease from sandblasting fabric to give it a “worn look”.“The base value of a single painting in Sweat Shop is more than the average garment district worker in Bangladesh makes in a month,” says Alessi. “There are other ways to talk about labour and value in the art world without drawing false comparisons between an atelier and a sweatshop.” She cites artist Maria Eichhorn’s current closure of the Chisenhale gallery in London as an example.Nothing to see here: the artist giving gallery staff a month off work Kage is aware that some interpret the very fine line he’s walking as an insult. “We have no plans to starve [the artists], put them in dangerous situations – the reality of what sweatshops really are,” he says, adding that profits will be split 50-50 between artists and organisers. “Selling is the main focus of Gallery Weekend. This whole performance is about capitalism – is capitalism giving to the poor? Fuck no! We give it to ourselves.”Rohit Bhatia, an Indian journalist and comedian based in Berlin sees it another way. “This project capitalises on the emotion associated with the term ‘sweatshop’ to further its marketability. What would these ‘artists’ know about regulated toilet breaks and absolutely horrifying work conditions?”Bhatia recalls visiting a clothes-stitching sweatshop in Mumbai, in the same premises as a magazine where he once worked. “The space was so cramped, workers couldn’t even stand straight because of the low ceiling,” he said. “Toxic fumes from a nearby plastic toy manufacturing unit added to the misery; it was so hot that one could get dehydrated in just a few hours.”When the Sweat Shop project finishes on Sunday evening, Kage’s artists get to go home. “For many workers,” says Bhatia, “that is not an option. The sweatshop is his or her life sentence.”