The television recording of Owen Wingrave started on Benjamin Britten’s birthday, St Cecilia’s Day. Producer and cast arranged for a special birthday cake to be baked and iced in the shape of the [Snape] Maltings concert hall. They arranged to measure the recipient’s age not in candles but in pounds of cake-mix. At 58lb, the cake proved even more enormous than was bargained for. The whole team was eating it feverishly at every tea break through 10 days and more of the filming and record sessions. Britten, it is reported, was tickled pink. Seven huge sets – banqueting halls, galleries and staircases – were crammed inside the Maltings, with tracks for cameras Those 10 days marked the culmination of a full 18 months of preparation for presenting this, the most ambitious television opera yet written. Britten was a late convert to television. When the Maltings was originally built he even resisted the idea of including wiring and other facilities for TV. Yet as with his conversion to the value of gramophone recording, his acceptance of television as a musical medium has been wholehearted. And as with the change of heart over recording, we owe it principally to John Culshaw, now head of BBC television music, that Britten took a new line. He accepted the commission to write a television opera, and characteristically decided that, far from scaling his vision down for a domestic medium, he would return to the larger-scale manner of earlier operas like Peter Grimes, Billy Budd and Gloriana.Owen Wingrave, based on a short story by Henry James with a pacifist moral, is a big work in every sense. The scoring may be for an orchestra of only 46, but as Brian Large (the BBC producer who has directed the project at the Maltings) says, the richness of sound and the ingenuity of effect (including ambitious parts for three percussion players, reminiscent of the ballet The Prince of the Pagodas mark a new departure after the spareness of the three church-parables. Most important, Britten has made no apology to a domestic audience over length. No scrappy one-acter this, but a piece nearly two hours long in which Britten and his librettist, Myfanwy Piper (his collaborator in the other James-based opera The Turn of the Screw), have elaborated and deepened the original short story.The recording was done behind closed doors. Plans to allow the press in were quietly shelved at the last minute, and the tight schedule was disturbed only by a sequence of parties from foreign television corporations all interested in presenting the finished product. It is still not certain, but it could be that the piece will get a simultaneous first performance in the spring in countries on both sides of the Atlantic. One reason for discouraging visitors was that the Maltings was crammed with sets. Britten, determined to use the medium to the full, demanded near–impossibilities, and it took all the ingenuity of Brian Large and his helpers to solve the problems, not least those of space. Seven huge sets – banqueting halls, galleries and staircases ­– were crammed inside the Maltings, and the tracks for running the many cameras round were so complicated, Large says, that “it looked like Clapham Junction”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Benjamin Luxon sings Owen Wingrave in the 1971 BBC productionChallenged by Britten, the technical men responded with all the virtuosity they could muster. The sound unfortunately could not be recorded in stereo, but Large has tried to put space round it, to give the sort of perspectives that Britten’s orchestration demands. The pity is that the loudspeakers on most commercial sets will hardly do justice to it, but very soon Decca plans to do a complete gramophone recording. On the visual side, Large is particularly proud of achieving a feat that the television text books tell you is impossible. Twice in the opera he has taken continuous shots through a full circle of 360 degrees, and he is pretty confident that he has avoided all trace of wires, cables, booms or cameras. The first time is in the banqueting scene, where the camera travels continuously round the table. The other time is in the key passage of the opera, where Owen Wingrave, scion of a military family and trained to be a soldier, finds himself forced to reject his past and his background in a long soliloquy. That is shot against the staircase of Paramor, the Wingrave mansion.The central part of Owen is played by Benjamin Luxon, who made such a memorable and sympathetic Tarquinius in last summer’s production of The Rape of Lucretia. Like the other seven characters – all of them fully rounded, no cardboard – Luxon had his part tailor-made for him by Britten, but it hardly minimised the challenge of the part over that vital change of heart which Owen knows will result in charges of cowardice. He responded marvellously, Large says. That scene was left till last in the recording schedule so that Luxon and all involved could soak in the background to the full. The other scene left till the last day was almost equally vital – the scene where Owen’s fiancée, Kate, does indeed accuse him of cowardice.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Guardian, 30 December 1970.The part of Kate, Large says, is one which on the face of it seems rather cold, but he himself has changed his view of it thanks to the singer for whom it was written, Janet Baker. Like the complete professional she is, Baker arrived pointing out that she had never done a television opera before, but heard and accepted advice in a way rare with a dominant artist. Her depth of expression made Kate’s responses not only intelligible but completely sympathetic. Another marvellous performance, Large promises, comes from Sylvia Fisher. As a vintage interpreter of the role of Lady Billows in Albert Herring she has only to enter a scene to steal it.The other singers too are vintage Britten performers, notably of course Peter Pears, whose part as Sir Philip, Owen’s father, is comparatively brief but full of character. The others are John Shirley-Quirk (Spencer Coyle), Heather Harper (Mrs Coyle), Jennifer Vyvyan (Mrs Julian, Kate’s mother), and Nigel Douglas. Britten conducts the English Chamber Orchestra with members of the Wandsworth Boys’ School Choir. The elaborate sets are by David Myerscough-Jones, and the co-director on the stage side is the inspirer of so many productions of Britten operas, Colin Graham – a powerful team.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benjamin Britten’s Owen Wingrave revived at Snape Maltings Concert Hall, June 2014. Photograph: Robert WorkmanAs for the music itself, it is reportedly so lyrical – with a haunting motto theme like a Border Ballad running through the score ­– that in tea breaks the camera-crew men and cable-bashers could often be heard humming the tunes. After our recent experiences with Tippett at Covent Garden that is not something one expects in a modern opera. For one vital scene, Large had to take up his cameras and move down to Aldershot. That is the scene where troops of the Household Cavalry are shown mounted. In the end Large didn’t get the Household Cavalry itself, but mounted military policemen dressed up. He was very satisfied with the result, even though it poured with rain on the one day available for outside filming. The military authorities were delighted to learn that a composer had brought the Army into an opera. He wonders now whether they will still be so happy when they learn about the pacifist sting in the tail. 