Party politics: why grime defines the sound of protest in 2016 The year 2016 in music may be remembered for grime going global and Frank Ocean sawing some wood, but it’s also been a year that’s seen young musicians starting to write about the world beyond their bedroom. But while grime has long been a socially conscious genre, but now a new wave of artists across musical styles are ditching yarns of love and longing in favour of wider issues, from gender identity to generational woe.One millennial upstart, pink-haired rapper GIRLi, is taking cyber-electro aim at asbos, using the Met police guidelines on antisocial behaviour as the basis for her song of the same name. Walsall teen Jorja Smith, meanwhile, started the year with Blue Lights, a future-R&B nugget about unjust policing.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So, the kids aren’t all right; they’re pissed off again. None more so, perhaps, than indie-ska scallywag Rat Boy. Rejected by McDonald’s and fired from Wetherspoons, the 20-year-old musician’s has channelled his experiences of being young and broke into tracks like Get Over It (think Jamie T in Madchester) and Sign On, in which he ponders a life on JSA. Unsurprisingly, he seems to be resonating with a generation for whom zero-hours contracts are quotidian rather than dystopian.Declan McKenna is another singer-songwriter with something to say. He tackled Fifa corruption in 2014’s Brazil, and his latest post-post-Britpop single, Isombard, addresses US law and order in the age of #Blacklivesmatter.“I wrote it last year when there were all these cases, one after the other,” says the 17-year-old. “I kept seeing videos of rightwing US TV anchors trying to say why [the police] were the good guys, but they didn’t have anything intelligent to say about them”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Why are so many of his peers engaging with real-world issues, rather than snogging behind the bus shelter? “The idea of young people being seen but not heard and trying not to say anything too offensive isn’t such a thing any more,” he says. “I feel like young people aren’t afraid to make their voices heard and try and make changes in the world, especially through art and music.”Maybe it’s the rallying cry of the defeated Remain camp, maybe we’re just sick of mindless EDM, but whatever the reason, Generation Z want songs that call for change and artists they can believe in. We might not be living through an age of protest bangers to rival the late 1960s yet, but this renewed sense of lyrical outcry is an antidote to a time of increasing uncertainty among young people. More than ever, we need fewer Voice contestants and more voices of our generation.Rat Boy is on tour to 28 September; Declan McKenna is on tour 23 September to 8 October; Jorja Smith plays Afropunk, Alexandra Palace, N22, 24 September