Michelle Obama spoke about finding the courage to overcome doubters on the South Side of Chicago, her love of Stevie Wonder and why she won’t run for president, during an engaging and wide-ranging Q&A session at SXSW.The first lady was in Austin ostensibly to help support her advocacy project: Let Girls Learn, which she launched at Global Citizen festival in New York last September, and took part in the session alongside Queen Latifah, Missy Elliott, actor Sophia Bush and the songwriter Diane Warren. Michelle Obama releases song with help from Missy Elliott and Zendaya The conversation started with the panelists asked to reveal a pivotal moment that changed their way of thinking. Queen Latifah spoke about the rise of crack cocaine and Aids in the 80s, while Obama chose her childhood in Chicago. “Growing up as a black girl on the South Side of Chicago, where the expectations of me were limited. As I was trying to make my way and do good in school and apply to good colleges, there were always people around telling me what I couldn’t do,” she said. “My reaction to that at the time was to prove the doubters wrong. But not every young person reacts to it that way and there are many people whose dreams get snuffed out.”“I’ve heard horrifying stories of young women who are pushed down because they’re trying to get an education,” she continued before referencing Malala Yousafzai and the abduction of the Chibok schoolgirls in northern Nigeria as extreme examples of when young women are prevented from gaining access to education.Queen Latifah played the role of moderator and guided the conversation which, as well as having serious moments, also included Obama revealing the fact that Stevie Wonder’s Talking Book was her favourite ever album.The biggest cheer from the crowd, who had to wait three hours and go through airport-style security checks, came when Latifah asked if Michelle Obama would ever consider a presidential run.“I’m going to continue to work with young people all over the world,” she said before pausing. “Not as president. I will not run for president.” After a chorus of playful jeers from the crowd she explained that one of the reasons was that so her children – Malia and Sasha – would no longer be in the spotlight. “No, no not going to do it. One of the reasons why is that I’ve got these two young people at home. Being the kids, the daughters of a president, just think about it. Come on young people, not so easy. They’ve handled it with grace and with poise, but there are so many ways to impact the world and you don’t have to be president of the United States to do them.”She said she was planning to continue her advocacy work, with a special focus on working with young people, after her time at the White House and that she wanted a new generation of engaged young people to get into politics.“I just know that if I can do this and be here and have gone to great colleges and have all these wonderful experiences, you can do it too,” she said. “Experiencing this journey with our young people of all ages, I’ll miss that, but I’m going to keep doing it for the rest of my life.”