When Paul Beatty’s The Sellout was first published in America in 2015, it was a small release. It got a rave review in the daily New York Times and one in the weekly New York Times Book Review, too, for good measure. But by and large, it was not a conversation-generating book. The New Yorker, for example, did not put James Wood, nor any of its other book critics, on the case. Instead, The Sellout was assigned for a Briefly Noted review and thus expected to be forgotten as yet another very good literary novel that was, regrettably, not very widely read. But then Beatty went on to win the National Book Critics Circle award for fiction, and now, the Booker. And now the high literary gatekeepers of Manhattan may find they have egg on their face because they didn’t see it coming.The Sellout by Paul Beatty review – a galvanizing satire of post-racial America I, for one, look forward to any kind of acceptance speech or statement Beatty gives. At the NBCC awards, Beatty simply said thank you, but “I definitely don’t have a message.” There is an analogy to Bob Dylan’s trolling of the Nobel committee there, a subscription to the school of thought that holds that true artists don’t really need or want these prizes because they’re too busy concerning themselves with their art. Like Dylan, Beatty is the sort of artist who actually shuns publicity. This could get interesting.Meanwhile, in publishing circles in New York, while this will rightly be celebrated as a win for a writer with a very strong body of work, it is also bound to cause a certain behind-the-scenes commotion. Beatty’s book is not the kind of book that American publishers, even literary ones, are typically betting on these days. Satirical, pointed, postmodern, even arch, it is thought of as “difficult”. Many people have described it to me as inaccessible, and at least some of those people are Beatty’s admirers. Beatty is devastatingly funny, but he is also working in a literary register that demands that the reader catch his allusions in order to fully appreciate the book, and not every reader will catch them. To be clear, that is no knock on Beatty. But it is a knock on the increasingly polarized literary culture of the United States. Paul Beatty on writing, humor and race: 'There are very few books that are funny' I don’t simply mean that American readers tend to prefer trash – like Twilight and Fifty Shades and whatever generic spy thriller James Patterson and his battalion of ghostwriters have churned out lately – to the average literary novel. Even in the narrower cohort of readers of contemporary American literary fiction, there is a kind of unspoken resistance to the sort of work Beatty does. People are looking for a good page-turner to sink into; they have little patience for work that plays with their own expectations of what a book might be – as a writer like Beatty often does.Ever since the wild, runaway success of The Corrections in the early 2000s, publishers, too, have been on the hunt for the next Jonathan Franzen, the next novelist of great talent who also happens to be able to put a good story together. Even in the past few years as Franzen’s work has, both fairly and unfairly, become a lightning rod for the literary diversity debate, it is still his sort of book that publishers seem to be looking for. They’d like it to be long, and narrative-driven, and above all, “accessible”.There is nothing wrong with wanting to publish – or read – books that have a wide potential audience. But it does generate a certain plodding sameness of tone and subject matter that plagues a lot of contemporary American fiction. Beatty’s win might just shake that up, a bit.