The New Tate Modern: Switched On 9pm, BBC2Brenda Emmanus and Andrew Marr attend the opening night wingding to christen Tate Modern’s new extension – the £260m tower to be known as Switch House. It is a huge project, expanding the gallery’s already immense footprint by over half again. But given the gallery’s success it’s necessary – the 4.7 million visitors attracted last year were well over twice what Tate Modern was originally designed to accommodate. Andrew MuellerNCIS 8.55pm, Channel 5 When the body of a burglar is discovered at the home of a marine it looks like a routine case for the department. But with the homeowner serving overseas, it soon becomes clear that this particular invader had been making themselves very much at home. Could it be that the crim-turned-cadaver was merrily playing Goldilocks within military homes? Or was something a little more valuable than a perfectly heated bowl of porridge the real target? Mark Gibbings-JonesThe Disappearance 9pm, BBC4Concluding parts of the glamorous French drama. The fallout from Léa’s murder has been measured in the cost to family relationships, and that between Flo and Julien is in gravest danger tonight. In the first half, Marco the racing driver comes under the microscope, before the focus turns to the links between Nico and Jenny (both now deceased). Handwriting analysis points the investigation in a surprising new direction, and another family division seems inevitable. John RobinsonUK’s Best Part-Time Band  10pm, BBC2The final part of this ace little series, guaranteed to appeal to anyone who’s ever flounced out of a rehearsal studio over the divisive use of an F sharp seven. Tonight we get to find out which of our bands can claim the title of best amateur group in the UK. Will King Salami storm it? Or will Bombskare take the prize? One thing’s for sure: there will be kicked-over drum kits, jettisoned guitars and frenetic bongo action. Ali CatterallBig Brother 10pm, Channel 5A sprawling cast divided into rival houses. Historical scores to be settled, ideally by underhanded politicking. A big chair made of pointy things. Consciously or not, the 17th season of original recipe Big Brother is channelling a heavy Game Of Thrones vibe, though the futuristically segmented diary room seat does at least look more comfortable than the Iron Throne. Like a geordie three-eyed raven, Marcus Bentley revisits the most recent clashes and smooches. Graeme VirtueBeyoncé: Lemonade 9pm, Sky AtlanticThis hour-long “visual accompaniment” to Beyoncé’s sixth studio album is, like the record itself, an awful lot to take in. At least three viewings are required: first to acclimatise to its sheer boldness; then to make a futile attempt to calculate how far it puts the singer ahead of any pop rival; and finally to digest a medium-mashing project that is both visceral and delicately artful, with an extraordinary image every minute. Jack Seale Riding Morocco: Chasing The Dakar 5pm, National GeographicAdventure bikers Christophe Barriere-Varju and Laura Csortan follow the route of the notoriously arduous Dakar rally. Barriere-Varju is a seasoned veteran of the race, having competed four times. Novice Csortan, meanwhile, has never taken a tyre off-road in her life. Beginning in Marrakech, the pair navigate mountain ranges, vertical dunes, plunging gorges and oasis towns in this breathtaking travelogue. Ben ArnoldFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie Foxx and Kerry Washington in Django Unchained. Photograph: Everett/REX/ShutterstockDjango Unchained(Quentin Tarantino, 2012), Saturday, 10pm, 5StarJamie Foxx’s Django is a slave who teams up with a German bounty hunter (Christoph Waltz) to rescue his wife (Kerry Washington) from the clutches of monstrous plantation owner Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio). Blending blaxploitation and spaghetti western tropes, there’s a loopy madness about the movie – from the bloody gunfights to the sheer savagery of slavery, in which Samuel L Jackson’s loathsome house servant Stephen is horribly culpable. Brilliant and brutal. Paul HowlettThe Raven(James McTeigue, 2012), 11.15pm, Film4Like the marvellous Vincent Price in Theatre Of Blood, there’s a highly dramatic killer on the loose in this gothic horror. It’s Baltimore, 1849, and Edgar Allan Poe (a well-cast John Cusack), in his last, penniless days, is stalked by a fan-cum-psycho who is gorily dispatching victims in homages to The Murders In The Rue Morgue. PHSilent Souls(Aleksei Fedorchenko, 2010), 1.45am, BBC2This lyrical tale of love, death and folklore is set among the Meryan people of west central Russia. When the young wife of paper mill boss Miron (Yuri Tsurilo) dies suddenly, he asks his friend Aist (Igor Sergeyev) to help him through a three-day journey of last rites and cremation: a ritual including the “smoke”, when the widower speaks in intimate detail about his wife. A moving rumination on sex, tenderness and grief. PH Today’s best live sportInternational Rugby Union: Australia v England 10.30am, Sky Sports 1Australia try to level the series in the second Test from Melbourne.Euro 2016 Football: Belgium v Republic Of Ireland 1pm, ITVAction in groups E and F, starting with Ireland against the fancied Belgians. Iceland v Hungary and Portugal v Austria follow (4.30pm, 7.30pm, both BBC1).Golf: US Open 6.15pm, Sky Sports 1The third day of the major.