What a glamorous night it was at the 88th annual Academy Awards. We had women in dresses, men in tuxedos and little children dressed up like adults by their parents, as a form of subtle psychological torture which will cost them thousands of dollars in therapy bills once their kids become teenagers. Truly an evening to remember for those who are slaves to fashion. There were so many wonderful outfits and so many sartorial choices to marvel at.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Actors including Saoirse Ronan, Daisy Ridley and Eddie Redmayne arrived on the red carpet to face the world press and to have their choice of outfit scrutinized by the fashion mediaUnfortunately, I have no idea what looks good on a person. I wore a rented tuxedo with pants I was very lucky to be able to zip up without them bursting at the seams. I went to a tailor once, for my wedding, and he told me in no uncertain terms that I have a “large seat”, which is tailor-speak for “you have a huge ass”. So, what I know about clothes is that I have a huge ass and that’s basically it. I couldn’t fit into your haute couture unless you painted it on to me while I slept. Still, I’ve been tasked to judge the wardrobe do’s and don’ts of the evening, because I might not know fashion, but I know what I like. I’ve definitely worn clothes before, and I like clothes. Mostly because they keep me from seeing people like Russell Crowe naked. Thank you, clothes.My first Oscars: booze, reality stars and queuing with Jared Leto Jennifer Lawrence      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Actress Jennifer Lawrence arrives on the red carpet for the 88th Oscars. Photograph: Frederic J.brown/AFP/Getty ImagesJ-Law made a very bold choice to wear a funeral veil on her body. This must have been some kind of Black Lives Matter protest. Very bold. Very, very bold.Whoopi Goldberg      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Whoopi Goldberg: chic, smart and fun. Photograph: UPI/Barcroft MediaI just love what Whoopi did last night. She’s got the fabric over her chest, which is always a smart choice. Wearing fabric on your chest like that is not only very chic, but super practical. The last thing you want is to not have fabric on your chest. Also, the octopus on her hand. Clearly she was either a very big fan of the Bond movie Spectre or just loves the ocean. Either way, very chic, very smart, and very fun. If there’s a word to define this year’s Oscar fashion, it’s fun!Mindy Kaling      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mindy Kaling at the happiest place on earth. Photograph: UPI/Barcroft MediaI didn’t see this dress, because I was in the bathroom for a fair amount of the show last night. Let’s not talk about why, OK? I just was. It was a long night and I had a lot of seafood. Anyway, Mindy probably looked just great. She wore what I imagine was a long, flowing gown with many sparkles on it. Sparkles signify happiness, and why would Mindy Kaling be less than happy? She’s at the Oscars, the happiest place on earth besides Disneyland, though at least at the Oscars you park and drink for free.Daisy Ridley      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daisy Ridley wearing a dress made of George Lucas’s tears. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesDaisy was in the new Star Wars film, which makes it doubly cool that she fashioned her dress out of George Lucas’s tears. I didn’t even realize one old man’s tears could be turned into a dress, but Daisy’s a “force” to be reckoned with on the red carpet, if you know what I mean!Alicia Vikander      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alicia Vikander in … yellow. Photograph: Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagicAlicia stuns in a banana yellow number with what appears to be her address written all over it. Gentlemen and ladies, don’t all jump up at once. Alicia is spoken for. She belongs … to a guy named Oscar tonight! Some guys have all the luck, am I right?Saoirse Ronan      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saoirse Ronan: the little mermaid. Photograph: Frederic J Brown/AFP/Getty ImagesThe Little Mermaid is one of my favorite films, so I really appreciate this costume. It takes quite a lot of guts to come dressed as a character from another film that came out decades ago when you’re nominated for an Academy Award for a completely different film that came out just a few months ago. She looked stunning, and she seems more than ready to jump off the side of a boat if necessary. Olivia Wilde      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Olivia Wilde: fashion forward and practical. Photograph: Gregg DeGuire/WireImageLots of cleavage on this number, which is a strong choice. I also love the collar which is not only fashion-forward, but also practical, as it lights up when a conversation becomes too boring, alerting the wearer to pretend as though she just saw her agent/manager/publicist/best friend/Uber driver on the exact opposite side of the party from the extremely dull person.Rooney Mara      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rooney Mara: miserable and loving it. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesMy favorite thing about Rooney Mara’s outfit is how miserable she looks wearing it. If you had fun last night, you must be some kind of weird normal person who still feels dumb emotions like pleasure or gratitude. Rooney Mara looks like she’s going to set fire to a barn just for kicks later, which is the chicest thing one can do at the Oscars.Charlize Theron      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wow. Photograph: Jeffrey Mayer/WireImageWhat else is there to say about Charlize other than “Wow!” I mean, the dress is red, it’s long, it covers all the right spots, and she barely stepped on it all night. Who would have guessed that expensive clothes look very good on gorgeous celebrities? Heidi Klum      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mamma mia! Photograph: Christopher Polk/Getty ImagesHeidi doesn’t need Seal to step out on the red carpet and make a statement. She looks like half an Abba reunion concert, which is a compliment where I’m from, folks.Charlotte Rampling      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charlotte Rampling: ready for anything. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesIt was wise of Charlotte Rampling to wear chain mail to the Oscars in case someone tried to shank her over her recent racially insensitive comments. As the uber fashionable Boy Scouts say, be prepared … to maybe get stabbed on the red carpet by some insane person!Cate Blanchett      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like an Easter flower. Photograph: Frazer Harrison/Getty ImagesCatey DID! Ms Blanchett rocked a light blue outfit with some flowery things on them because it’s springtime and nature is in bloom. Easter is also my favorite holiday, so I was really happy to see Cate dressed for church last night.Lady Gaga      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gaga for Gaga. Photograph: Frazer Harrison/Getty ImagesI am gaga for Gaga! White is a color that really pops on our favorite fame monster. The only downside of her dress is that she had to constantly keep her arms at her sides otherwise the dress would fall completely off, which would have been very embarrassing. Kate Winslet      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kate Winslet: sealing the deal. Photograph: Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesThe former Titanic star dressed like an aquatic creature – the noble seal – as a callback to her most famous role: “Seal” via Llewelyn Davies in Finding Neverland! Oh man, the only thing I love more than fashion is horrific, painfully stupid puns!Kerry Washington      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kerry Washington: mixed messages. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesKerry Washington’s outfit is bold. The breast plate says “Joan of Arc,” the the black stripes on the side say “quittin’ time, so the suspenders come off,” and the slit in the skirt says “I ripped my skirt.”Rachel McAdams      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rachel McAdams arrives at the 88th Annual Academy Awards. Photograph: Jeffrey Mayer/WireImageGreen. Wow. What a color.