Surveillance states, manipulative media, sexual assault and social media storms – these are natural headlines for any news programme in 2017; less so the themes of an album by a rising pop artist. For Tel Aviv-based musician Noga Erez, however, songs are her way to “process the issues that bother me about the world”. Her music is clattering, confrontational and takes no prisoners. Dance While You Shoot is an agitated attack on a government that she tells me is becoming “more extreme, more religious, more nationalistic”; a track titled Global Fear speaks for itself. You won’t find Erez writing any straightforward tales of cheating hearts.“I got a lot of advice not to talk about what’s happening in Israel,” says the 27-year-old, taking off her sunglasses. Her hair is rolled into multiple shapes on her head and, with her structured rain mac made of neon orange mesh, she looks like she’s stepped off the cover of the Face, circa 1998. “People who care about me told me, ‘Listen, don’t go outside and start talking about things,’” she continues. “And for a while I thought, ‘This is what I’m going to do – whenever I’m being asked about it, I will avoid it.’ But I can’t, because the songs are about it. People think it’s brave but I just think it’s… necessary.” If you take away culture away from places then it doesn’t do good to anyone, it makes that place even worse Erez is one of Israel’s few breakthrough indie stars, having signed to Berlin label City Slang – home of Caribou and Junior Boys – and one of the country’s most hyped artists (one writer called her “the Israeli answer to a Björk”). Created with her studio partner of four years, Ori Rousso, her debut album, Off the Radar, pairs MIA-style sing-speak and jerky beats with FKA twigs’s cinematic sparseness and an off-beat approach to melody. Some instrumentals have an escapist ebullience about them, all neon sharpie synths and catherine wheels of electronic bloops; others an oppressive, danceable dread. The lyrics are playful yet often oblique – a result, she says, of discovering which English words sound best together rhythmically rather than grammatically. All are burdened, however, by the very relatable feeling “that you can’t really trust the people who are responsible for running your life – your financial life, your security, everything”. At times, Erez sounds like she’s taunting herself, wrestling with that other very relatable feeling: the conscience-scraping guilt of inherited privilege.“Yeah, I handle guilt on a daily basis,” she says. “Dance While You Shoot is about how can you dance, how can you have fun and live your privileged life when you know that the very existence of your life is something that harms others? I mean, 30 minutes away from where I live extreme things happen on a daily basis. I pay tax to a government that acts in some way [towards that]. Every country in the western world feels that things are happening and the way you live isn’t something to take for granted – but this is near. It’s in your face.”Even so, Erez describes her early years in Tel Aviv as “very average”. She was born just before the start of the Gulf war in a liberal, music-loving home, where she was encouraged to take piano and guitar lessons before studying composition at Jerusalem Academy of Music and Dance. Her mother writes biographies, her father worked in telecoms and, she adds casually, “fought wars”. Like many Israeli couples, her parents met in the army when they were both doing military service. “It’s really easy, most of the time, to feel like you live in a normal place,” says Erez. “Whatever life you have is the normal life. You need to grow up in order to really understand what’s happening.”Erez was conscripted herself when she was 18 as a military musician, after an X Factor-style audition for the role. “It’s strange that it still exists because it’s a weird concept, like in the 60s, with pretty, nice-looking singers from the US who would fly to Vietnam to entertain the soldiers,” she says.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Noga Erez’s Pity.It sounds like she got the easy job? “Being a girl really helps,” she laughs. “Being a woman, you’re most likely not to do actual fighting.”More recently, however, the reality of living in a conflict zone hit closer to home. She remembers when, in 2015, rockets were fired into Tel Aviv. “Alarms would go off and you’d need to go to a shelter and hear a big boom after it,” says Erez. “It took me a year and a half not to freak out every time I heard an alarm. But then it stops. It’s amazing how easily the mind forgets about things and puts them in a drawer. It’s really easy to forget.”That sort of attitude could be perceived as complacency, and indeed Tel Aviv is often accused of being a cultural bubble of liberal elites, but Erez says her peers are not, on the whole, passive. “People in Tel Aviv are being blamed all the time for being detached from what’s happening. In Hebrew there’s an expression for it: like, beautiful souls, thinking of ideas like hope and peace from afar, and doing art about it, and talking about it in a philosophical way. But I think that people don’t vote because there’s no one to go to. It’s like: ‘How can I vote for someone I don’t trust?’” At the same time, young Israelis on the whole are said to be leaning to the right more than ever. Erez says it’s more complex than that, but that people do feel disillusioned and that the “more extreme” tendencies of Benjamin Netanyahu’s government have “a lot to do with why people think that way”.Working in the creative industries poses a similar kind of uncertainty. “Being an artist in Israel today is not like being an artist in Israel 10 years ago,” says Erez. Israel’s controversial minister of culture, Miri Regev, “is taking serious steps towards the censorship of culture, closing the funds for anyone who talks about something that doesn’t line up with the ideals of the government”, she says. “I’m not afraid in the way of, you know, censorship in Turkey. No one will kill you because of what you’re saying, but you might face some consequences, like people not liking your opinion and then boycotting your music or art.”Speaking of boycotting, only a few days earlier I’d walked past an old building in central London flypostered with calls for one of Erez’s favourite bands, Radiohead, to cancel their July gig in Tel Aviv. Erez says she sees both sides to such pleas but can’t help but be disappointed. “If you take culture away from places then it doesn’t do good to anyone, it makes that place even worse, because art and culture is the opposition to the political situation,” she says. If anything, she continues, the liberal left needs what positive reinforcement it can get. “Most of the crowd of Radiohead, specifically, are not the people that you want to weaken but you want to make stronger.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Noga Erez performing at Convergence festival in London in March. Photograph: Antonio PaganoSo far, Erez’s country seems to be on her side. In 2016, the Israeli foreign ministry flew Erez to the Rio Olympics to perform as part of an official musical showcase. It certainly hasn’t dampened the potency of her music, either. Erez wrote the song Pity after a high-profile court case for the alleged gang rape of a young woman in a Tel Aviv nightclub in 2015. The incident was filmed – instead of stopped – by onlookers and the resulting footage went viral, shocking Erez “to my bones” and prompting fierce discussion about the normalisation of rape culture. “Everyone became a judge,” says Erez of the furore. “It was a social media trial, and that was one of the things that really disturbed me.” In the end, the accused were found not guilty.Erez is uncomfortable with being labelled a “protest artist”: she says her songs are more of a “conversation with herself” than overt activism: she is conflicted, trying to figure out her place in the world. But she does see a future where she could turn into a musician with clearer political motives. She admires artists such as PJ Harvey who “never crossed the border to shout out a message that she doesn’t completely understand. Everyone protests about things, everybody has that tool today – we could all just open our mouths and say whatever we want to say.”It is why, perhaps for now, Erez is particularly careful about speaking generally about the Israel-Palestine divide. “It’s so diverse and split,” she says when asked whether young Israelis differ from previous generations about the conflict. “There is a conflict inside Israel about those things because it’s so complicated.” According to Erez, “there is a lot of empathy for the other side”, but she laments how, when it comes to the Netanyahu administration, “the word ‘peace’ is not brought up any more. ‘Hope’ is something that people are cynical about because people have lost hope.”If there’s any hope to be found, it could come from among Israel’s small but diverse underground music scene. In Tel Aviv, at venues such as the Block, Jewish and Arab audiences are said to dance together, united by electronic DJs. “It’s all about trying to form a new conversation and trying to be normal,” says Erez. “This is probably the only idea that I believe in now 100% – building communication through normalising the connection. If that’s something that we aim for, I think it could create some change.” Erez says that she hopes one day to collaborate with Palestinian artists but her ambitions are also that of any global pop artist: to break out of her local scene and make her songs “something that people can relate to from different parts of the world. As personal as the music is, it’s as universal as it can be.”Off the Radar is out on 2 June via City Slang