There are two kinds of home entertainment enthusiasts. The first group would probably never use the phrase “home entertainment” but they represent the core of those who choose to watch movies at home. They’ve got a Netflix account and maybe a hundred plastic discs gathering dust on a shelf, but ultimately they’re more concerned with what they’re going to watch tonight than how they’re going to watch it.Then there are the purists: a shrinking demographic who care deeply about bitrates, know resolution standards off by heart, and are eager to explore each and every special feature on the upcoming Blu-ray release of Man With A Movie Camera.Among the latter group, there’s much excitement about the arrival of ultra high-definition video – a relative term that signifies a picture quality better than high definition, which in turn denotes a picture quality better than standard definition, which in turn describes anything more advanced than an MS Paint illustration. In practical terms, ultra high-definition usually means 4K – a resolution four times greater than conventional Blu-ray, and in line with the projection capabilities of most Leicester Square cinemas.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kingsman: The Secret Service. Photograph: AllstarTech companies have been quick to throw their weight behind the format, having introduced 4K televisions long before there was anything to play on them. Now, the first 4K Blu-ray player is finding its way to market courtesy of Samsung, and the major studios are lining up to furnish the new machine with content. This Monday, Fox is releasing a handful of 4K discs – each with an RRP of £19.99 – offering viewers 8.29 megapixels through which to experience the mind-blowing spectacle of Ang Lee’s Life Of Pi, or the mind-numbing spectacle of Matthew Vaughn’s Kingsman: The Secret Service.4K offers a level of detail that’s difficult to comprehend until you witness it for yourself. The first time you see it in action is likely to be one of those moments that recalibrates your entire conception of technology. Whatever tabloid newspapers would have you believe about the supposed glamour and luxury of the “flat screen” television, the truth is we’re now we’re living in an age where it’s possible to start replacing your DVD collection with discs offering 16 times the resolution of that format.Not that anyone will, of course. Physical media sales continue to drop year-on-year as streaming becomes the dominant force in home entertainment, and though online platforms like Netflix and Amazon already offer 4K, they do so without making a song and dance about it. Perhaps they’re aware that their customers are less concerned by the resolution of each new Adam Sandler comedy than by their ever-declining quality, and that the purists – whatever influence they might once have had – are rapidly losing ground.