In the vibrant world of David Hockney, there is always light. It illuminates the fields of Yorkshire, casts shadows across the bodies of lovers, gives ethereal beauty to the Hollywood Hills and, most of all, it bounces off the shimmering blue surface of swimming pools.Now six decades of these paintings, drawings and collages have been brought together under one roof for the first time at Tate Britain, in the most extensive retrospective of Hockney’s career. Across 13 rooms with more than 100 works, the show runs chronologically through Hockney’s life, from his 1960s Love paintings through to his move to LA, where he documented the indulgent bohemian lifestyle that swept up the working-class boy from Bradford, and back again to Yorkshire. It ends with his new iPad drawings and the paintings he continues to make of his succulent garden in California.Hockney, 79, and still prolific, has called it “a beautiful show”. It unites in a single room his most recognisable portraits, including the 1977 painting of his parents, the 1968 portrait of the playwright Christopher Isherwood and his partner Don Bachardy, which has not been seen in the UK for 30 years, and Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy. In an adjacent room hangs A Bigger Splash and the 1966 picture of his former lover Peter emerging naked from a pool.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hockney’s A Bigger Splash (1967), left, and A Lawn Being Sprinkled (1967). Photograph: Daniel Leal-Olivas/AFP/Getty ImagesAccording to Chris Stephens, who co-curated the show, Hockney’s main hope is that people leave it with a feeling of joy. “He told us that he hopes that they leave looking more closely at the world, because there’s a lot of pleasure to be had from looking at what is around you,” he said.Stephens first approached Hockney in 2012 with the idea of staging another retrospective, his first since 1988, and spent four years travelling back and forth to LA to discuss the show – visits that were filled, mainly, with “films and endless cigarettes”.David Hockney review – 60 years of sex, sun and seismic shocks “David’s been amazing to work with because he’s been involved but not overbearing,” said Stephens, who selected the works he thought would work best for the show, and then made changes according to Hockney’s preferences. A 2006 painting of elderflower blossom in Yorkshire, never before displayed in the UK was one that Hockney was keen to include in the retrospective, as well as his video work, the Jugglers, which welcomes visitors as they arrive.The show finishes with new, previously unseen paintings of the artist’s garden at the LA house he has owned since the 1970s. “Hockney might be almost 80 but he is still completely focused on what he’s doing,” said Stephens. “When he saw the four new paintings of the garden hanging in the final room, he told me he now has another one of those on the go. That’s him, always focused on the next thing. He gets up every day and works, that’s all he does – he’s incredibly energetic. “But I think since we’ve been doing the show he’s become more comfortable with looking back, which he has maybe always resisted in the past, and finding pleasure in the fact he has made some great works. One of the few things he said, when we first went through it together, was: ‘I’ve made some quite good paintings.’”Hockney’s habit of painting the places and people around him has ensured his works have become a colourful visual diary of his life – his love affairs, his friendships with Ossie Clarke and Celia Birtwell, his travels to Arizona and his return to the UK in 2012 after the death of his assistant. However, Stephens insisted there was no nostalgia for Hockney in this retrospective, because his practice was “still very much alive”.“He would talk about individual pictures, talking about the moments he had made them – he said going round he could remember where every picture here was made and what was going on at the time – but it didn’t feel nostalgic,” said Stephens. Hockney had a small stroke in 2012 and has lost much of his hearing but otherwise, Stephens said, he was in good health. “He gets tired but I think he gets more tired when he’s not working – when he’s working it’s the adrenalin that drives him on. He’d still rather be doing that than anything else.”Hockney is seen by many as one of the greatest living artists, and the retrospective has become the fastest-selling exhibition in Tate’s history. He is the only artist since Francis Bacon to be have two retrospectives there in his lifetime.Stephens said Hockney never seemed to give much thought to his own legacy or reputation, but was willing to embrace his popularity, believing that art was something that everyone should have access to and enjoy.“I think he is clearly moved and affected by seeing these paintings from the past,” said Stephens. “He knows they are incredibly famous, but more that they are incredibly loved. And that’s the thing that means most to him.”• The David Hockney retrospective is at Tate Britain in London from 9 February to 29 May.