Ordinary Lies9pm, BBC1The ensemble-cast series continues. Tonight’s episode focuses on Holly (Kimberley Nixon): she’s the oil in the company engine, but that’s all very well when her friends are getting engaged, she’s living with her mum and her status anxiety issues are being ratcheted up by her uncommitted boyfriend. Can the solution really be an elaborate ruse to win back her more glamorous ex? Moderately squirmy drama about our public and private selves. John RobinsonBen Fogle: New Lives In the Wild 9pm, Channel 5In a new series, the adventurer meets people inhabiting some of the remotest places on Earth, beginning with former punk Lynx Vilden, who now lives a strictly prehistoric lifestyle in the beautiful but unforgiving wilds of Washington state. An intrigued Fogle (“She’s on a different level, born with pulsing, wild genes”) joins Lynx in her earth lodge and follows her as she hunts and eats in the forbidding forest. Ali CatterallDamned 10pm, Channel 4As if the welfare of children wasn’t already demanding enough for Rose, caring for her elderly mother at home piles on further pressure as this downbeat but likable Jo Brand sitcom continues. Meanwhile, at the office, a pair of Muslim teens go missing from their foster home. The police officer tasked with tracing the pair seems determined to channel Jack Bauer, while Al remains convinced that more traditional teen behaviour is to blame. Mark Gibbings-JonesFatal Experiments: The Downfall of a Supersurgeon 10pm, BBC4A Storyville three-parter investigating discredited surgeon Paolo Macchiarini. His work in creating synthetic organs could have been a boon, since spare parts for our bodies are in desperately short supply. However, he was accused of falsifying his science and using patients – many of whom died following transplants – as guinea pigs. Tonight, we see him brush aside doubts about his work with the irritation of a latter-day deity. David StubbsThe Flash 8pm, Sky1For those who haven’t been keeping up, police investigator Barry Allen has the power to move at superhuman speed. He’s also – as season three of the DC comic-book adaptation begins – a man who resides in a subtly altered reality that, Marty-McFly-style, he appears to have brought upon himself. With Barry’s murdered mother being alive in this timeline, it doesn’t seem so bad, but be careful what you wish for … high-quality hokum. Jonathan WrightMarried at First Sight 9pm, Channel 4It’s hard not to watch this extreme matchmaking show without a sense of dread, even when the singletons looking for love are so affable. This week’s total strangers leaving their spouse’s identity to a team of “experts” include train manager Adam. His collection of geek memorabilia disconcerts even the vicar. Meanwhile, science – having purportedly made these matches – slinks out of the picture come the big day. Bella ToddNaked and Afraid XL 11pm, DiscoveryThis is nude survivalism given the “XL” suffix, the significance of which is perhaps too graphic to contemplate, although it’s surely a disadvantage among prickly foliage. Actually, the XL refers to the lineup of “veteran” contestants who are returning to take on the challenge again. In this first instalment, the scenario for their arduous nakedness is 40 days in the South African bush. Yes, that’s right, bush. Get over it. Ben ArnoldFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Niels Arestrup and Tahar Rahim in Our Children. Photograph: Courtesy Eve/Rex/ShutterstockOur Children, (Joachim Lafosse, 2012), 1.40am Wednesday, Film4After a shocking opening in a hospital ward, this Franco-Belgian drama recounts in flashback how newly married couple Murielle and Mounir (Emilie Dequenne and Tahar Rahim) are slowly suffocated by the apparently generous interest of wealthy Belgian doctor Andre Pinget (Niels Arestrup). A quietly terrifying, superbly performed social parable on good intentions paving the way to hell. Paul HowlettLive sportAsian Champion’s Trophy hockey: Pakistan v Japan, 11.30am, BT Sport 2Coverage from Malaysia.EFL Cup football: Liverpool v Tottenham Hotspur, 7pm, Sky Sports 1Lively-looking fourth round tie between two Premier League pace-setters. Kick-off 7.45pm.Cycling: Six Day London, 7.30pm, Eurosport 1Coverage of the opening day of the event from Lee Valley.