Matt Fountain describes himself as a social entrepreneur, and when his business, The Freedom Bakery, opens in Glasgow later this year he will be at the forefront of the changing face of social enterprise.The Freedom Bakery has a traditional social enterprise mission: the baking business will provide employment and training to people who have recently left prison in an attempt to break the common cycle of reoffending. Fountain, a Cambridge graduate who has previously worked for a charity, has personal experience of the desperate need for such a service. "I grew up in a household with my mother's partner who reoffended so I had the experience of the damage that it can cause," he explains. "The Freedom Bakery is an experiment in trying to engage with recently released ex-offenders, to give them some training – in this case bread-making – to help bring out some of the social skills and motivation skills they need to go on to further work."But unlike the early movers in the social enterprise sector, the bakery will only reinvest 65% of its profits back into itself and its wider social mission. The rest will be paid out in dividends to shareholders, most of whom, he hopes, will be business people and financiers rather than charitable or social funders.Until now the majority of social enterprises have traded heavily on their social impact and have typically reinvested most of their profits straight back into the business as demonstration of that social commitment. Here, the Freedom Bakery is different.Fountain is aiming to produce luxury bread and cakes which are competitive in the food industry. To that end the marketing of the business will reflect the product, not the social outcomes that it is aiming for."If I set up this company and we're trading on the fact that we're helping some people that have got out of prison, it's seen as a charitable cause and it doesn't sound competitive with any other for-profit business," Fountain says. "We are not pushing that aspect, but the product itself."Nevertheless he will still pay a living wage and commit to accounting against the triple bottom line – commitments also made by most other social businesses.Having spent a year working in the voluntary sector, Fountain says there is little future for traditional grant-dependent charitable projects thanks to increasing competition for shrinking funding streams. He believes that the third sector is held back by conservative trustees nervous to test out new revenue streams, and that is why it is important to design a social business model that is financially autonomous and independent of grant funding.The Freedom Bakery is registered as a Community Interest Company (CIC) limited by shares. The number of CICs is growing rapidly across the country, according to Social Enterprise UK, with government figures suggesting there are now more than 8,000 registered businesses of this type. Government red tape has been relaxed to encourage more CICs to form. So does this mark a new era for the social enterprise movement?Dan Gregory, head of policy at Social Enterprise UK, says there's been nothing to stop social enterprises paying large dividends in the past. "[Our] criteria for a social enterprise stipulates that, among other requirements, at least 50% of their profits are reinvested in their social mission. So while many social enterprises do reinvest all their profits in their work, others, like The Freedom Bakery, choose a different split, often paying a minority share to investors – who themselves may be social enterprises. [This model] is recognised across most membership bodies, government departments and indeed in the EU."While Fountain's business plans mark a new, unashamedly commercial direction for social entrepreneurship, there's no suggestion that he is diluting the core values of the social enterprise movement. The definition of social enterprise has always been fluid and, according to Anne Mountjoy, marketing manager for for the Social Enterprise Mark, the business would still potentially be eligible for certification, depending on its constitution and governance.Fountain describes his company as a new type of social enterprise which will, in his case, provide ex-offenders with "real employment opportunities in profit making businesses". He says it unites the principles of microfinance and impact investment (including corporate social responsibility) within a traditional commercial ownership structure. By focusing on the product and the profit it makes, his organisation can compete with business and improve the impact that social enterprise has on communities and the economy."It's not a care service; it's a real business," the founder says. "By setting up a business, for profit, with real investors and a strong drive, with ambition and the working conditions we wish to achieve, it helps to create the most realistic and value-added working experience for my staff. For me, it's about something that's sustainable."For more news, opinions and ideas about the social enterprise sector, join our community