When news broke on Wednesday that a “Friends reunion” was happening, plenty of people went out in public and beat their breasts and rent their garments in excitement. Well, OK, they posted how excited they were on Twitter, which is the new millennium version of breast beating and garment rending. I hate to break it to you all, but this is not the Friends reunion you were hoping for. In fact, it’s time to stop it with the obsession of reuniting old sitcoms altogether. Before examining what this reunion is, let us first examine what it is not. It is not new episodes of Friends. It is not the cast of Friends playing their old characters and letting you know what they are up to now. It is not Phoebe Buffay leading her five best friends and their fake television spouses and their imaginary television children in a new rendition of Smelly Cat.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What it is going to be, instead, is the six of them standing together on a stage talking about how much they adore beloved sitcom director James Burrows in a two-hour special about him. The main focus isn’t event Joey, Chandler, Rachel and the rest, it’s a guy who you’ve seen on the screen even less than Gunther, the guy who served them coffee. (However, he was a character on Lisa Kudrow’s HBO show The Comeback.) There are also going to be reunions for the cast of Will & Grace, Mike and Molly, Frasier, and Cheers. Reunion fever!The specter of the reunion is an awful thing created by nostalgia and propagated by the internet entertainment complex to transform that nostalgia into clickable stories for your Facebook feeds. This is not even the first “Friends reunion” we’ve had to suffer through hearing about. Matthew Perry and Courteney Cox had a “reunion” on the set of Cougar Town. So did Cox and Jennifer Aniston. Aniston, Kudrow and Cox had a reunion with Jimmy Kimmel. Cox and Perry had another “reunion” on the set of Go On. There is even talk of a “reunion” at Cox’s upcoming wedding. That is not a reunion. That is your former co-workers coming to support a major life event. It happens every day. Get over it. Fans really need to give up on this idea that they’re going to see all of these six people together again on the same stage and that is going to – what? – herald the coming of the entertainment antichrist? Begin the end of days of streaming television? I don’t know what they expect, but some sort of miracle is going to occur and watching them will catapult all the viewers back to their youth where they were more attractive, had fewer cares, and could stay up until six in the morning drinking without a hangover that lasts for three days. Thanks to Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, YouTube and the rest, our favorite old shows are now immediately accessible any time you want them. Netflix paid handsomely to show you any episode of Friends whenever you could possibly want to watch it. Want to see Ross and Rachel fight about being on a break? Done, it’s clicks away. It’s not scarcity that is driving Friends-mania, it’s sad nostalgia, pure and simple. There have been dozens of excellent shows since Friends went off the air in 2004 and there will be countless excellent shows in the future. Why don’t we invest some of our energy in finding new things to love rather than obsessing on the old things that we once loved? That warm feeling you get in your heart for the glory days of how things used to be can be attained just as easily by discovering fresh hope for the world to come. But I don’t really blame fans for harboring this all-encompassing addiction to the idea of reunions, not just of Friends, but of any show. Entertainment Weekly even has an annual “reunions issue” where they get the casts of old movies and programs to stand side by side once again so we can all think, “Wow, when did we get so old?” As I mentioned, the media are rabid about them, going so far as to rank all the Friends “reunions” so far and not letting any of the six stars of the show walk down a red carpet unmolested by questions about getting the gang back together. Can you imagine how annoying that must be? What if every time you went to a professional function everyone asked you when you were going to return to that place where you worked a decade ago? That’s exactly what happened to show co-creator Marta Kaufman at the premiere of her new Netflix show Grace and Frankie. In the past she said a reunion would never happen but that didn’t stop a reporter from asking her if it was still not going to happen. Her response was perfect: “Let it go.” It’s hard for fans and the media to listen to the advice of Kaufman and everyone’s favorite song from Frozen when television executives are the biggest enablers of recycling old material. The X-Files is set to return to Fox next month, Netflix is currently filming Fuller House, Uncle Buck is getting ready to premiere on CBS, and even Kudrow’s own The Comeback resurfaced after nearly a decade. Everything that is old can be made new again, and it’s even preferable because those are sometimes the only things that can break through the clutter of “peak TV”.I’m going to say this now and let it sink in: there will never be new episodes of Friends. Period. That is all right. The world will keep moving. At some point, with any piece of art we have to accept that the moment has passed and it may be for the better. It’s not just Friends, it’s everything. There won’t be any more books in the Lord of the Rings saga, any more symphonies by Beethoven, or even any more One Direction albums. Well, that is, until their inevitable reunion. Expect reporters to start asking about it early next week. 