Karen Elson is sitting on a couch in a members’ club in Soho, flame-red hair almost matching the vintage upholstery, sipping tea with all the poise you’d expect of a woman with 20 years’ modelling experience, though in demeanour she’s as warm and open as her looks are imperious and otherworldly.Elson stars in the current campaign for Miu Miu, shot by Alasdair McLellan and styled by Katie Grand, but says that modelling is “not the thing that fulfils at the end of the day – I mean it’s my job, and I enjoy it to a certain degree, but it’s not the thing that is nagging me all the time to purge.”As well as a model, she’s a singer, about to release her second album, Double Roses. Tempestous and romantic, it’s pitched somewhere between country, 70s-style Laurel Canyon pop and a very English, glowering folk.Recorded in Los Angeles and produced by Father John Misty and Will Oldham collaborator Jonathan Wilson, its transatlantic style expresses Elson’s own experience. Brought up in Oldham, Lancashire, she now finds herself a resident of Nashville, the country music stronghold where she lives with Scarlett and Henry Lee, her two children with ex-husband Jack White. “When I’m in Nashville my life’s very, very quiet,” Elson says. “I raise my children, I drop them off at school, or go home and try and work on music. I think the biggest key musically for me is silence and having quiet to just know my thoughts.”  ‘The biggest key musically for me is silence’ ... Karen Elson performing in New York in 2010. Photograph: Rob Loud/Getty Images I have to be able to tap into those universal feelings of hopelessness and love because that’s the stuff that moves me As Elson says, at 38, she’s lived “a very full, complicated life” and while she’s at pains to say it’s not a divorce album, Double Roses expresses both her passions and disappointments. The final song, Distant Shore, was inspired by a sudden crush on someone she met at an art exhibition; on the title track she recites a poem by Sam Shepard.The night after we meet, Elson performs her new songs in an east London cellar bar; despite her nerves, she’s bewitching. It’s appropriate, since a recent post on her Instagram feed read: “Before, I was not a witch. But now I am one.” It’s taken from Sabat – improbably, a stylish indie magazine for witches. However, Elson says any interest in the pagan is more inspired by Stevie Nicks than anything else. One spur to make the album, she says, was listening to Storms by Fleetwood Mac while in Paris making a commercial for Cartier. The ad director Johan Renck (who would go on to make David Bowie’s final two videos) had given her a pep talk, telling her that while modelling was all well and good, she had to make another album. “He was, ‘Everyone has insecurities, we all doubt ourselves, you just have to climb over the mountain and jump off the other side.’ I listened to that Fleetwood Mac song and I realised that if I’m going to make another record, I have to be able to tap into those universal feelings of despair and hopelessness and love because that’s the stuff that moves me.”White produced Elson’s first album, The Ghost Who Walks, released in 2010; as with Double Roses, Elson wrote or co-wrote all the songs. The new album has already excited indie gossips – “The rock’n’roll kindergarten is what I like to call it,” Elson says – because it includes Call Your Name, a song co-produced by Pat Carney of the band Black Keys. In 2013, White’s antipathy to the Black Keys was revealed in angry emails leaked as he and Elson were fighting over custody of their children. Two years later, Carney and White had a physical altercation in a New York bar, which Carney broadcast in a series of incensed tweets.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Elson on the inspiration for her new album. We all doubt ourselves, you just have to climb over the mountain and jump off the other side These days, however, according to Elson, things are a lot more amicable, both between her and White (“We’ve worked long and hard to be great friends”), and White and his peers. “There’s no beef here, everyone’s either 40 or nearing 40, at a point in life where you start to mellow out. Jack has only been supportive of me as a musician, the one pushing me off the cliff when I’m, like, ‘I can’t do it!’” Her ex-husband is, she adds, “incredibly smart and he’s an incredibly tender, kind man. I think he’s so misunderstood by so many.” There’s nothing to be drawn from the fact that Carney is on the record, she says, besides the fact that “I, as a woman, made the record that I wanted to make.”As an awkward, lanky girl, Elson always wanted to be a singer. “It was a daydream, particularly when you grow up in those oppressive northern English towns where it’s gloomy all the time, and you’re always fucking cold, you’ve got damp on the walls, music is the escape and the rebel call, the moment of rage you have, but it’s also the moment of peace.” It didn’t seem an impossible dream: as she entered her teens, the Manchester scene was exploding on to Top Of The Pops. Elson’s older brother John knew Mani, the Stone Roses’ bassist, and would go on tour with the Happy Mondays. He also gave her records: “I remember it was Parliament and the Velvet Underground at 13, that was quite a gamechanger.”However, it was the fashion world that propelled Elson out of Oldham. At school, she says, “my majority of life experience was being bullied. I was painfully shy and never felt understood. I was just the skinny whippet – that was my nickname – mercilessly tortured for just being weird, and then, as life would have it, my weirdness was celebrated”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I think he’s so misunderstood by so many’ ... Elson with her ex-husband, Jack White, in 2008. Photograph: Jon Furniss/WireImageWhen Elson’s classmates found out that she had joined a model agency, it caused pandemonium. “All the school bullies were: ‘You’re not fit to model socks’ – that was one line that sticks in my head to this day, that I’m secretly like, ‘Aha! Not fit to model socks, was I?’” Nevertheless, Elson understands where her tormentors were coming from: “Growing up northern, there is a caustic nature to everything because everyone’s not living easy – either your parents are on the dole or struggling just to make ends meet.”Elson shot to fashion’s front rank aged 18 in 1997, when photographer Steven Meisel told her to shave off her eyebrows and the jaw-dropping results were put on the cover of Vogue Italia (she went on to be on the magazine’s cover a further 19 times). The early days of her career were marked by relentless travelling – “On my 18th birthday I remember getting on the plane and just crying my eyes out because I’d never been so tired in my life” – but in New York, where she based herself in the East Village, she found her tribe: “Artists, film-makers, musicians, other models, people in fashion who were really interesting.” She’d go to goth night at the Meatpacking District club Mother and dance to the Cure, Joy Division and Ministry.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 1997 Vogue Italia cover that launched Elson’s career. Photograph: Steven Meisel/Condé NastNew York, says Elson, was her “artistic university” in lieu of the real thing – at school, her careers office had suggested that since she wanted to travel she should consider being a flight attendant. “You have to bear in mind my options were, if I don’t make it, I’m probably going back to being a travel agent in Manchester, and that’s always been a thing propelling me forward in that world.”She’s remained at the top of her game since the early 90s. Elson has fronted ad campaigns for Louis Vuitton, Lanvin and Balenciaga, walked countless catwalks – including Marc Jacobs’ when she was seven months pregnant with her daughter Scarlett in 2006 – and worked with every major photographer from Nick Knight and Peter Lindbergh to Tim Walker.Nevertheless, she’s had sticky moments. “There have been a lot of shoots where you feel sort of coerced or not respected, where people have not been kind,” Elson says. “The amount of times I’ve been called fat on set – come on.” She suggests that the treatment of young models is still marked by a certain callousness. Backstage before a fashion show, Elson noticed that a young girl in a see-through top was self-consciously covering her breasts. “I was like, ‘You’re uncomfortable, aren’t you?’” Elson complained: “And I saw the stylist roll their eyes. There’s this lack of compassion. Even the kindest people in fashion lose their sense of moral ground, they just think, ‘Well, it looks good on her.’ It’s got a long way to go, it really does. But let’s hope.”Two days before we meet, she was on the Women’s March in London with her (nonidentical) twin sister. Elson was proud to get involved in the resistance to Donald Trump. “It was really incredible to see all the solidarity between so many people across the world, that people are going to be fighting, or standing up for their voice,” she says. Elson is alarmed at the prospect of abortion rights being rolled back for American women, saying, “I can’t believe how backwards we’re going again. Rulemakers are putting their dogma on our bodies.” Working as an ambassador for Save the Children, she has seen first-hand the kind of suffering that ensues when the world’s poorest women are denied birth control – which Trump facilitated when he signed the global gag rule shortly after being elected. “If a woman is impoverished and has so many children she can’t take care of them, the cycle of it … it’s like a snake eating its own tail.”America has rarely seemed more divided, but Elson takes some comfort in the fact that, “what I have realised, living in Nashville, is that you can meet people with entirely different beliefs and find some common ground.” That common ground, of course, can come through music, which can bring together even the most polarised of people – or transport you away from a world of intolerance and fear. “It was my escape when I was 13 and it’s my escape still at 38,” Elson says. “Even now I’m making music, I don’t listen to it any differently than I did when I was younger. It’s still got that mysterious hold upon me.”Karen Elson’s album, Double Roses, is released by 1965 Records on 7th AprilThis article appears in the spring/summer 2017 edition of The Fashion, the Guardian and the Observer’s biannual fashion supplement   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 