How do you stay motivated when your job is to tell the same jokes every night? What do you say on stage when you’ve just broadcast all your best new material? These were the questions facing the bone-dry US comic Todd Barry three years ago, shortly after the release of his TV special Super Crazy. “After that,” he says, over the phone from New York, “I had that feeling of ‘Can I tour now?’ I didn’t have a brand-new hour. I’m not someone who turns over a new set every six months. But I didn’t know if there was an appetite for me doing the special again, live.”His solution, 20 years into an excellent but, relatively speaking, conventional standup career, surprised even Barry. “I was joking with myself, and I said, ‘Why don’t you just do a crowd-work tour?’” Crowd work is comedy jargon for spontaneous banter with the audience. “And then I took a beat and thought, ‘Wow! Why don’t I do that?’” Barry was “a little fatigued” with normal standup. (“It’s more fun than most jobs, but sometimes you get a little bored with yourself.”) Here was the perfect – if scary – solution: take to the stage unprepared, with nothing to fall back on save quick wit and confidence in the latent funniness of even the most generic comedy audience.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Todd Barry perform from Super Crazy“So I decided to commit to it, as opposed to letting my fear stand in the way,” he says. What then changed a bold leap for Barry into a big deal was the intervention of his friend Louis CK. A so-called “comedian’s comedian”, Barry has guest-starred on CK’s hit sitcom, as well as The Larry Sanders Show and Flight of the Conchords (he played the band’s unwelcome new bongo soloist). Louis CK produced a film of the Crowd Work tour, and broadcast it at low cost on his website. The film – part documentary, part standup special – made a splash, and Barry has been fending off offers to perform extempore comedy ever since.Next week, he brings the show to the UK, where – as he’s heard – there are one or two templates for wholly improvised standup. But whereas Ross Noble, say, uses the audience as a spur to surrealistic flights of fantasy, Barry’s feet stay firmly on the ground. He’s the least excitable of comics: his first album was called Medium Energy. That’s partly what makes the Crowd Work film so fascinating. “Doing it turned out to be really relaxing,” he says. “Almost more relaxing than doing jokes. I remember the first show I did, in Philadelphia, I had this feeling of, ‘Oh man, I don’t have to prepare anything. I could just take a shower, put my clothes on and do this …’ But the flipside was the nervous sense of, ‘Oh, but once I’m on stage, I do have to do something…’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Barry on the Louis CK showIn the movie at least, no trace of those nerves is apparent. Noble feeds off his own dynamic energy, while Barry engages beadily with his audience, giving them space to be funny (or not), letting his silences and our anticipation of his put-downs ring as amusingly as whatever he actually says. “A few people on the internet wrote, ‘Wow, I’m surprised that he’s good at this.’ They saw me as just a low-key performer with decent jokes. But that,” says Barry, “is even more reason to do it.”'What's your name and what do you do?' Standups need better banter It’s all leagues ahead of the “where are you from and what do you do?” hackery with which many standups pad the opening 10 minutes of their set. Barry knows that crowd work has its own cliches. “But people who have praised me say I do it in a way that’s not overly mean, or hacky and cheesy,” he says. The film provides abundant examples, from Barry’s droll interactions with two members of a band named Avant Abstract (“They were so into being insulted that it was just beautiful”), via the tipsy crowd in Portland obsessed with free-range chickens, to the man who volunteers the information, apropos of nothing, that his college town boasts an excellent blues bar. “It’s like, ‘How did you pull that out as something interesting to say?’” Barry marvels. “I get enjoyment out of odd choices that people make in conversation.”I suspect that is essential to the success of Barry’s enterprise: the need to like people, to be curious about them. He agrees: “If someone’s just a seething asshole, I’d rather not reward them with my crowd work.” There are certainly enough good people out there to ensure that the show has never failed. The improv well, he says, has yet to run dry. And even if he doesn’t want to become “the crowd work guy” – he’d prefer to be known as a good comic with a sideline in funny conversations – Barry’s happy performing the off-the-cuff show when opportunities arise. “Even in a normal show, when you do something spontaneous with the audience, if that lands it gets the biggest laughs because it’s magical to that room and that show. It’s the same with my Crowd Work show. The laughs aren’t just as big as they are for my standup, they’re often bigger.”• Todd Barry is at the Pub/Zoo, Manchester, on 13 June; and at Soho theatre, London, 14-18 June.