“I’m enjoying it but I was bit surprised there was another rape. It feels like everything has sexual assault or abuse in it at the moment.”That’s how a number of conversations I’ve had recently about TV have gone. And I can’t deny that there have been a glut of dramas featuring sexual violence over the last few years, including Emmerdale, Hollyoaks, EastEnders, Apple Tree Yard, National Treasure and Broadchurch.Dramas like Broadchurch have helped rape survivors speak out. But services need funds | Rowan Miller I have 13 years’ experience of working and campaigning within and on behalf of the Rape Crisis movement, including acting as its national spokeswoman for three years, and I find myself defending the trend. Don’t social issues have peak moments in popular culture and is it not just rape’s “turn”? And considering how much sexual violence happens in life, is it not realistic it should crop up a fair bit on our TV shows? 85,000 adult women and 12,000 men experience serious sexual assault, rape or attempted rape every year in England and Wales alone, and that’s before we consider child victims. One in five women has been through some form of sexual violence since she turned 16; if we’re having this debate at a party or in a crowded pub, we only need look around us to take in the enormity of those figures.Plus, isn’t it inevitable that Operation Yewtree, the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse, and moving disclosures from survivors including Madonna, Lady Gaga and Michelle Thomson MP should spark a fresh interest in sexual violence?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lady Gaga, who has spoken out about her experience of sexual assault. Photograph: Valerie Macon/AFP/Getty ImagesBesides, at least this current generation of depictions has evolved beyond scantily clad young women being chased through dark woods by demonic armed attackers. At least today’s programme-makers consult with specialists, such as Rape Crisis, to ensure their portrayals are realistic.But here I start to falter. Because the truth is I know the tidal wave of researchers, writers and producers eager to handle sexual violence responsibly is beginning to place a burden on chronically under-resourced and overstretched yet vital support agencies. And incredibly, the vast majority don’t offer to pay these specialists for their expertise. Some even decline to make a donation towards the time charities spend helping them when explicitly asked - time that inevitably detracts from core work like service delivery. So Rape Crisis centres have to decide whether the chance to influence a programme that, handled badly, could cause harm to the thousands of sexual violence survivors among its audience is worth diverting resources from activities for which they’re funded, often by public money.Broadchurch was a notable exception, making donations to the charities it consulted and providing financial support for the national Rape Crisis and Survivors Trust helplines to extend their opening hours throughout the show’s broadcast.But what happens at the end of this week when that support ends?The Guardian view on The Archers’ Helen Titchener storyline: Bravo Radio 4 | Editorial Last year, as the domestic violence storyline on Radio 4’s The Archers became excruciating for listeners, one fan set up a fundraising page in the fictional victim Helen Titchener’s name that has so far raised over £172,000 for Refuge, a charity that supports “the real Helens”. It was a beautiful illustration of how drama can trigger consciousness and prompt action in support of worthy causes.This year, acclaimed actor Julie Hesmondhalgh, beloved of Corrie fans as Hayley Cropper and brilliant as Broadchurch season three’s main character Trish, gave an exclusive interview to Rape Crisis, which was posted with a donations page for its national helpline. At the time of writing, that page has raised a tenner.So why the discrepancy? Is it because Broadchurch isn’t a popular show? Clearly not. Is it because Rape Crisis focuses on the needs and rights of women and girls? Possibly, although Refuge is also a women’s charity, so sexism is probably part but not all of the answer. Likewise, the class differences between characters: Helen Titchener was solidly middle class, Trish Winterman slightly less so. The truth is that Rape Crisis centres have long struggled to attract the volume of donations on which other causes rely, despite the wide-ranging and often lifelong physical, mental and emotional health and social impacts sexual violence has on survivors.Despite a perceived saturation of sexual violence on our screens, maybe it’s still taboo, too terrible for us to think about too deeply; that might at least explain why the fact Helen Titchener was a victim of rape as well as domestic abuse was barely mentioned in all the widespread coverage of The Archers storyline until her trial.Rape fantasy Elle isn’t a five-star masterpiece – it’s sick | Bidisha Or perhaps it’s because there’s a lack of empathy for survivors; because, according to a recent Fawcett Society report, more than a third of people still believe “if a woman goes out late at night, wearing a short skirt, gets drunk and is then the victim of a sexual assault, she is totally or partly to blame.” Is that our problem with Trish? Even though 20% of women have been through it, do those who haven’t believe they are immune to sexual violence because they would never act in certain ways? Deep down, do we think survivors aren’t deserving because it’s just a little bit their own fault?The paradox is that part of the work of Rape Crisis is to challenge myths and prejudices around sexual violence so survivors can access social justice. But year on year it faces financial uncertainty, while demand for its specialist services are at unprecedented levels and thousands wait on their lists. Last year, Rape Crisis centres in England and Wales answered 171,000 helpline calls and provided ongoing support to over 58,000 individuals. This is no niche cause. So instead of asking why so many programmes feature sexual violence, perhaps we should be asking ourselves the difficult question: just why doesn’t that coverage translate into support for survivors?Comments on this discussion are pre-moderated.