One of the most basic human instincts is curiosity; everyone has seen the joy on the face of a small child suddenly grasping a new idea. At which point our educational institutions take over, and start killing all that joy. Children are tested until they believe passing the test is the reason for acquiring knowledge. If they do badly at tests, the world becomes a more difficult place to navigate. If they do well, their reward is to be tested in increasingly stressful situations. If their desire for knowledge survives all this, maybe, with luck and perseverance, they make it to university. At which point we hit them with formal education’s AK-47: the lecture.Many of us have vivid memories of inspiring, engaged, dynamic lecturers, who make up for everyone else. The problem is everyone else. Until very recently, most universities did not train lecturers in public speaking. So people who knew a great deal about a given subject were given an hour (or more) to talk at a captive audience, without feeling any great pressure to make that talk interesting to anyone but themselves.Audiences for the humanities are shrinking, and yet every week brings a new literary festival, sold-out museum exhibition, hit play, literary adaptation or history programme on TV. The BBC’s War and Peace inspired swaths of people to read the very novel that symbolised a novel that was too long to read. A new cadre of engaging history experts (Amanda Vickery, Lucy Worsley, Suzannah Lipscomb, Dan Snow) are seeking fresh ways to bring history to life. But these experiences, worthwhile as they are, still leave audiences learning passively and indirectly, noses pressed to the glass of an experience they can only imagine.More interactive, participatory cultural experiences have long been fighting to break down the fourth wall altogether: digital storytelling and games strive for ever more immersive experiences, as do more theatrical interactive performances by companies such as Punchdrunk and Secret Cinema. The model goes back at least to the “living theatre” experiments of Brecht, Artaud, Cocteau and others; but, while seeking ways to promote cooperative, collective expression, they didn’t leave audiences to run the show. Living theatre experiments have always sought to challenge, stimulate and provoke their audiences: precisely what good lecturers also do. If you tried completely crowd-sourcing a lecture, you would probably produce a living Wikipedia, shaped by common misconceptions and urban myths. But you might use research expertise to curate an immersive experience in which audiences interacted with experts, everyone learning from each other across a variety of modes: photographs, film, text, sound recording, mini-lecture, discussion, and whatever else you could dream up. If you bring the classics alive in ways people can directly experience, they'll return to the books alert to new ideas You might start with a classic novel that everyone already loves (or at least has heard of and is curious about); one that lends itself to sensory experiences; and has interesting historical contexts that have been mythologised or distorted by cultural memory, which the event could reframe. You could recreate a Proust salon with experts in French literature and cultural history, but bring in cognitive scientists, philosophers and culinary experts to take the audience through memory and taste experiments, and discuss how these ideas relate to À la Recherche du Temps Perdu; you could team up with Shakespeare experts to create something nearer than a “Ye Old Renaissance Faire” to what the Elizabethan world was really like. Shakespeare’s Globe has done it, after all, with resounding success. If you bring the contexts and ideas that shaped the classics alive for people in ways they can directly experience, most will return to the books alert to all kinds of new concepts.It seemed like a good idea, so we’ve decided to try. My expertise is in the world of F Scott Fitzgerald and The Great Gatsby, and my university has agreed to sponsor a curated Gatsby experience at Senate House on 5 May. It’s an experiment, to say the least, mixing a museum-style exhibition about New York in 1922 with pop-up talks, roaming experts and amateur enthusiasts, a silent cinema, sound recordings and a jazz performance of music from the novel in the style of 1922. We’ve made American nibbles from 1922 cookbooks, and historical perfumer Sarah McCartney has created two bespoke fragrances inspired by the novel, using the ingredients of 1922. Of course, it really isn’t a Gatsby event without gin, and we’ve teamed up with the London Gin Club and Sacred Gin to recreate for the first time in 94 years Scott Fitzgerald’s handwritten recipe for bathtub gin, which I found forgotten in the archives. Audiences will be able to sample it (no one will go blind; we’re not mad scientists, and historical authenticity isn’t everything). It is the first of a series called Living Literature, in which we will try to get into the spirit of classic novels. The project is ambitious but the goal is simple: to return us all to that sense of joyous surprise, of remembering how much fun it used to be to learn, and how much fun it can be again.Living Gatsby will be at Senate House, School of Advanced Study, University of London, WC1E, on Thursday at 7.30pm.