The government announced the renewable heat incentive for householders today. For Tony and Rhoda Graham, who have lived for 30 years in their 5 bedroom home which doubles as a bed and breakfast, in an idyllic location in Windermere, it is long overdue.Several years ago, while cycling through Europe, the couple came across eco-friendly biomass boilers, but couldn’t find them in the UK. Eventually the government announced its intention to launch the scheme, which prompted them to make the switch from oil exactly a year ago, for Tony's 70th birthday. He explains why: I switched for several reasons. We have our own woodlands opposite the property and for years I have managed its conservation and wildlife. I feel passionately about the need to be sustainable.The boiler itself was £13,000, but in total we’ve spent around £20,000 to set this up. The financial gain is slow in coming – although if we had to buy the wood, we’ve worked out it is still 50% cheaper than oil. When the RHI comes in, it will go some way to repaying some of the capital and running costs.We burn the wood for 3 hours, it is 90-92% efficient and that heats everything for the next 24 hours. Lots of people live in the English countryside and for a little bit of work they could have this. It’s my exercise.It is a system which feels like going back to the way we used to have to work a hundred years or so ago.One tip I would give to anybody is to have several installers come and inspect the property. A lot of people have jumped on the bandwagon. We didn’t go with the cheapest quote, but the man who came in came from a small, family firm, and knew the product inside out. The aftercare we’ve had since the installation has been fantastic as well.You also need space. This isn’t something that can simply go in place of the previous boiler. We have ours in an out-house as well as space to store the wood.Unusually, Tony opted for a log boiler, saying he was concerned at the use of pellets and chips:  Why should I use fossil fuels to turn the wood into chip? For me, burning the wood is the most environmentally friendly option.The domestic RHI is a super idea, and is all part of the government’s commitment to reducing carbon emissions. My concern, however, is with the commercial companies. Large schemes and uptakes have created a massive demand for wood – mostly chips and pellets. This is counter-productive as it will create something unsustainable and we are already importing both from abroad.But for domestic home use, this is certainly sustainable.