A couple of weekends ago, the Guardian published its seasonal selection of the best books of the year as chosen by a roster of novelists, poets, playwrights, and the occasional historian. In response, the scientist and writer Matthew Cobb expressed his frustration on Twitter:Matthew Cobb (@matthewcobb)Two cultures anyone? 40 writers choose 110 books of the year, only 2 could conceivably be described as science books https://t.co/smPPodDmQuNovember 26, 2016To reassure Professor Cobb – and all our other readers – that the Guardian is keen to bridge the shifting crevasses that still occasionally fracture perceptions of modern culture, we invited our science bloggers to present their favourite fiction and non-fiction reads of 2016 - even if they weren’t published this year. Let us know your favourites in the comments below. __Jenny RohnLab Girl; The Wolf Border; All the Light We Cannot SeeFor candid glimpses inside the scientist’s world, you sometimes need to visit uneasy places. The spectacular autobiography Lab Girl by Hope Jahren dissects the often brutal world of research academia in a manner so revealing that I worried the entire time that she was going to get sued. Jahren, an American paleobiologist, confronts failure, depression, lab poverty and sexism with excoriating humour and resilience that is not without occasional flashes of joy. Fiction about scientists (lab lit) allows authors to explore the scientific world from a fresh angle, and in Sarah Hall’s novel The Wolf Border, we are out of the lab and into fresh air, where zoologist Rachel Caine has been hired to reintroduce the gray wolf into England. Loner Caine has issues aplenty, and the story – backed by glorious prose and plenty of heart – is an epic journey to find her own pack. Science – or rather mathematics – is peripheral in Anthony Doerr’s award-winning novel All the Light We Cannot See, but still crackles through as a talented German boy and a blind French girl cross paths via forbidden attic radio broadcasts in occupied France.Stephen CurryBeing Wrong; In the Light of What We Know; HomeWhile I haven’t exactly had a vintage reading year, when it’s been good it’s been very, very good. I hugely enjoyed Invisible, Philip Ball’s imaginative exploration of things unseen, Andrea Wulf’s gripping account of Alexander von Humboldt’s synthesis of the science of the natural world (The Invention of Nature), and Ed Yong’s I Contain Multitudes, a treasure trove of stories from the front lines of microbial research. But the best science book I read in 2016 was Kathryn Schulz’s masterly and enthralling Being Wrong, which pulled the rug of certainty and knowing from under my feet. A necessary book for our turbulent times. The limit of human knowledge is one of the many ideas packed into In the light of what we know, Zia Haider Rahman’s dazzling symphony of a novel. His story of two life-long friends – both students of mathematics, both from immigrant families – who find themselves variously caught up in the world financial crisis and the unravelling of post-9/11 Afghanistan, drills deeply and rewardingly into the grand themes of life: meaning, identity, loyalty, faith and family. Marilynn Robinson’s Home, the second instalment of her Gilead trilogy, is more quietly spoken but throbs just as intensely with the hurt of expectation that is often found within the core of religious and family life.Elsa PanciroliDinosaurs: how they lived and evolved; Recreating an Age of Reptiles; Dark MatterDon’t let the screaming, featherless monstrosity on the cover fool you, Dinosaurs: how they lived and evolved is a thorough treatment of the latest dinosaur palaeobiology. Darren Naish and Paul Barrett’s book is aimed at adults, but would be accessible to any precocious 10-year old or and teen. Stunning illustrations are used throughout to tell the story of how these giant reptiles ate, moved, reproduced, and survived – as birds. This year I also took a visual tour of palaeoart from the time of dinosaurs, in Recreating an Age of Reptiles by Mark Witton. Far more than just dino-porn, Witton explains the scientific reasoning behind palaeontologically-informed art, and rather than the usual saliva-dribbling, roaring, T-rex poster-boys, he infuses his diverse art with atmosphere. There is even a chapter on Mesozoic mammals, our earliest ancestors. Where other artists merely bring these creatures to life, Witton gives them soul. When not reading popular science and palaeoart, I picked up the latest sci-fi page-turner from Wayward Pines writer Blake Crouch. Dark Matter is an exciting blend of sci-fi action with multiverse-spanning tragedy. Jon ButterworthBlack Hole Blues; Typhoon; V for VendettaBlack Hole Blues from theoretical physicist Janna Levin describes the difficult characters and even more difficult science behind the greatest physics discovery of 2016. LIGO’s observation of the ripples in space-time – gravitational waves – caused by the merging of two black holes is deserving of several books. This gripping and entertaining opener, written (just) before the announcement in February but updated in light of it, was the best science book I read all year. For fictional diversion I turned to Joseph Conrad’s novella, Typhoon. A stubborn and unimaginative ship’s captain rejects the expert advice of his manual and steams on into weather far worse than anything he has ever experienced. But rather than cave-in under the onslaught, he holds his nerve, and eventually returns to the manual for guidance, though not without factoring in his own wisdom – “You don’t find everything in books” – to make a humane success of his journey. Things are less humane in V for Vendetta by Alan Moore and David Lloyd. After a devastating world war, the UK is run by a populist, domestic totalitarian regime in which the terrorist, V, fights for change and for justice. Never simplistic, some of the questions the book examines seem disturbingly relevant after a politically tumultuous 2016.Georgina VossNetworks of New York; Red Mars; The PeripheralNetworks of New York by Ingrid Burrington hauls the internet into plain sight. Drawing on the affordances of nature field guides, Burrington picks out the subtle marks on the city landscape – spray-painted street-markings, manholes covers, wall-mounted cameras – which make up the material internet. As an aggressive UK surveillance policy is hustled quickly and quietly into being, this book reminds us that networks of connection are all around, right under our noses. Sticking with material politics, the sci-fi classic Red Mars is over 20 years old, but remains icily relevant to the current mess of world-building. Author Kim Stanley Robinson draws out power plays between corporations, governments, and workers who fight for the purpose of colonising the red planet. More economic science fiction than anything else, its descriptions of technology-by-international-consortia will delight policy nerds, whilst prescient mention of a “Brit in the European delegation” of a UN committee was heart-stopping. In a very different world is William Gibson’s The Peripheral, which takes on multiple futures, imperialism, and the technological paths that ride into and descend from a hazy drawn-out ‘Jackpot’ apocalypse. I read this at the beginning of the year when descriptions of micro-economies around gaming and scrappy digital fabrication seemed apt; as the year ends, the Jackpot feel a little too close.Rebekah Higgitt Newton’s Apple and Other Myths About Science; Gossamer Days: Spiders, Humans and their Threads; A Place of Greater Safety; The Lodger: Shakespeare on Silver StreetIn Newton’s Apple and Other Myths About Science 27 experts in the history of science and science education explore 27 “myths” that are staples of classroom and popular science. Each short, readable and authoritative chapter is perfect commute-length reading. Better than just countering the myths, the book explains when they arose and why they stuck. A book that wonderfully unites history, science, art and anthropology is Eleanor Morgan’s Gossamer Days: Spiders, Humans and their Threads, which I reviewed here. In the summer I stumbled across Hilary Mantel’s massive A Place of Greater Safety. Set during the French Revolution, her novel follows the intersecting lives and contrasting personalities of Danton, Desmoulins and Robespierre. Mantel’s prose carried me easily through the swings of history and character in this hefty paperback, provoking excitement, curiosity and, at times, real tears. Charles Nicholl’s The Lodger: Shakespeare on Silver Street is a history book that conjures up a different world as well as any novel. Though centred on Shakespeare, the house he lodged in and a court case in which he testified, it is Nicholl’s ability to bring bustling early modern London to life that really shines. Dean BurnettIt’s All In Your Head; How a bad girl fell in love; Grand AmazonThe science book that struck me most in 2016 was neurologist Susan O’Sullivan’s It’s All In Your Head, and in depth look at the severity and workings of debilitating psychosomatic disorders. Despite the questionable title, O’Sullivan provides deeply personal and illuminating observations about patients with baffling conditions, with a vivid style that brings to mind Oliver Sacks. In other non-fiction, I fell in love with Girl On The Net’s How a bad girl fell in love, a story of how a, shall we say “unashamed sex enthusiast” copes with the supposed contradictions between her passions and the desire to maintain a monogamous relationship. It deals honestly with mental health, societal pressures on women and a smattering of psychic powers. For fiction, I keep coming back to Nate Crowley’s Grand Amazon, a follow up to The Sea Hates A Coward, itself the result of the ridiculous Daniel Barker’s birthday farce. A nautical steampunk sci-fi space battle zombie horror comedy adventure tale, there’s something in it for everyone, if just by the law of averages.Pete EtchellsA Brief History of Everyone Who Ever Lived; Death by Video Game; AnnihilationWe’re in trying times. This year feels like it’s been a bit of a kick in the teeth in terms of the mass rejection of evidence-based anything. As a perfect antidote, my book of the year is Adam Rutherford’s A Brief History of Everyone Who Ever Lived. Rutherford’s commanding tour of modern genetics is invigorating, yet maintains a level-headed attitude to the limits and misapplication of gene science. Despite the title, Simon Parkin’s Death by Video Game is a refreshing look at how video games captivate us, for better or worse. Far from polemical, it’s a thoughtful human-centred story about a misunderstood and maligned medium. For a bit of escapism, Jeff Vandermeer’s Annihilation is hands-down the best science fiction book I’ve read all year. Through the eyes of an unnamed biologist – in fact, none of the characters are named – it tells the suspenseful story of an expedition into ‘Area X’, region of the United States that has become creepily uninhabited following a mysterious event some thirty years previously. Look out for the movie, landing next year.Suzi GageAnimal; Herding Hemingway’s Cats; Good Cop Bad WarSara Pascoe’s Animal is sub-titled “the autobiography of the female body”. Though best known as a (brilliant) comedian, Pascoe doesn’t shirk on the science, and takes in theories of evolutionary biology and recent neuroscientific studies, to create something that’s both extremely personal and widely relevant. I wish it had been around when I was a teenager - I would have devoured it. Also extremely accessible is Herding Hemingway’s Cats by scientist and broadcaster Kat Arney, an enjoyable romp through the field of genetics. Arney’s hugely engaging style makes this book a real page-turner, with a fair amount of debunking the hype of “a gene for” nonsense along the way. Finally, Neil Woods worked as an undercover cop for 14 years, befriending heroin users as part of police efforts to bust drug gangs. His memoir Good Cop, Bad War lays bare not only the dangers he encountered during these operations, but also his realisation that his actions may in fact have been making the situation worse. A sobering read.Jack StilgoeThe Cunning of Uncertainty; Hamilton (the musical)No-one predicted that 2016 would be so unpredictable. Britain and America have both taken leaps into the unknown and there are few protocols for the political experiments we are now undertaking. In The Cunning of Uncertainty Helga Nowotny, who recently stepped down from running the EU’s European Research Council, provides a brilliant analysis of uncertainty as more than just things we don’t know. She recasts science as an organised encounter with uncertainty and argues that politics could learn something from how science deals with its grey areas. To paraphrase Donald Rumsfeld, will Donald Trump be able to admit that there are things he doesn’t know that he doesn’t know? At times of uncertainty, insight can come from unusual places. Lin Manuel Miranda’s musical Hamilton (which I’m including here because Miranda wrote the ‘book’ – music, lyrics, and dialogue) manages to make a song and dance of central banking, fiscal policy and the politics of subsidiarity, as well as more conventional themes of war and love. A guilty pleasure for wonks. “Washington’s the President/Every American experiment sets a precedent/Not so fast/Someone came along to resist him/Pissed him off until we had a two-party system.” Brilliant.James WilsdonThe Ethics of Invention; The Politics of Evidence; The AllegationsIn a year when the promises and pitfalls of gene editing, robotics and artificial intelligence have all made headlines, The Ethics of Invention by Sheila Jasanoff presents an eloquent and persuasive alternative to technological determinism. Reminding us that innovations are neither self-propelling nor value-free, Jasanoff distills a lifetime of work at the boundaries between science, policy and law into a fresh and urgent call for renewed political engagement in the governance of technology. It’s the most important science policy book of 2016, just pipping Justin Parkhurst’s superb The Politics of Evidence, a welcome arrival in a year that has been a decidedly depressing for those of us who care about the role of evidence and expertise in policymaking. Parkhurst’s book sheds new and encouraging light on longstanding questions. Better yet, it is available as a free download. I escaped policy woes in the pages of Mark Lawson’s The Allegations. While we tend to think of the 1970s as the heyday of the campus novel, there’s lately been a resurgence of fictional swipes at the absurdities of academic life. Lawson’s novel explores how faceless bureaucracy and post-Savile sensitivities can collide to destroy the reputations of two academics. It’s a funny, insightful take on universities, celebrity and contemporary culture – but also terrifyingly plausible.