Being “bummed out” has been how Chicagoans Whitney have been described most consistently so far in their short career. They’ve been billed as producing sad indie-boy moping set to strangely compelling tunes, with a healthy dollop of melancholy thrown in for good measure and a name that’s derives from an imaginary old bloke who sounds quite a lot like Philip Larkin’s Mr Bleaney. Songs such as the recent single No Woman typify that approach with Julien Ehrlich’s (drums, vocals) providing a wispy lead vocal with lyrics about isolation, heartbreak and revelatory road trips.If that sounds as though it might be a bit wet, live the six-piece (including Max Kakacek (guitar), Ziyad Asrar (keyboards), Will Miller (trumpet), and two other guitarists) are anything but. Ehrlich sits front and centre on a slightly raised pedestal and his voice, which is a genuine one off – comprising a kind of strung-out soul falsetto – completely stands up and out in a live setting. Kakacek’s intricate Muscle Shoals-style guitar lines compliment that and Miller’s use of the trumpet adds another intriguing element to the mix. As with many of SXSW’s daytime sets it’s a blink and you’ll miss it affair, but one that introduced a band that feels fully formed already.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At Cheer Up Charlie’s things were a little less harmonious. White Lung headlined the daytime session, with lead singer Mish Way (who has written for this publication) and the rest of the band delivering their brand of brash and abrasive punk rock. They were there to play “new stuff” and that fresh material carried on their mix of Kenneth William’s scuzzy, scratchy riffs and Way’s full-throated vocal rebuttals. Not exactly as soothing as Whitney but an afternoon pick-me-up for flagging attendees. The day before at the LuckyMe showcase, the Scottish label’s latest signees Naked showed off their glacial wares. The Edinburgh trio of Agnes Gryczkowska, Alex Johnston and Grant Campbell, have a darker experimental pop sound than their labelmates Jacques Greene, Cashmere Cat and Baauer and live they come across as something akin to the Cocteau Twins fronting Throbbing Gristle. Their single Doubt was all gentle piano lines and reverb-drenched percussion, but live things are far more visceral and moody. There were technical issues early on but once they were overcome there was something compelling about their macabre take on pop. Backlit and smoky, the group blasted the audience with as much white noise as lush melodies. Gryczkowska made a captivating front woman, as she mixed sultry vocals with avant-garde dance moves. Naked are not for the faint hearted but it’s definitely not a case of emperor’s new clothes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Iggy Pop recently posed naked for a life drawing class in Brooklyn masterminded by the artist Jeremy Deller, who said: “His body has witnessed much and should be documented.” Plenty of people have also witnessed the 68-year-old’s body, and to that extensive list can be added the audience at Austin City Limits on Wednesday night. Pop lasts a grand total of one song before he strips off the jacket of his sharp tuxedo and treats us to a sight of that famous torso: craggy, veiny, sagging in places but still an awe-inspiring sight. It’s like looking at the body of rock’n’roll itself. Pop is now the last man standing of art rock’s Holy Trinity, his friends and collaborators Lou Reed and David Bowie having left us. Defiant, belligerent and with an unquenchable Lust for Life – the song he opens with, perfectly – it seems fitting that Pop continues to blaze into the future, an incorrigible blend of punk rock chaos and crowd-pleasing showbiz. Equipped with a band boasting Josh Homme on guitar and Matt Helders from the Arctic Monkeys on drums, and with an excellent album, Post Pop Depression, to promote, Pop is on magnificent form, supplying two hours of pulverising magic.It’s the two classic albums he made with Bowie, Lust for Life and The Idiot, that are at the core of the set. Of course he plays the songs everyone knows, including The Passenger, as loping and vulpine as ever. But there are also incredibly welcome outings for Mass Production, which sees Pop dancing in spasms as the dive-bombing synthesisers crowd the song’s ending, Success, Nightclubbing, Baby and Some Weird Sin, the latter surely an anthem for hedonists the world over. “Come up here and fuck me!” he demands before a super-funky Tonight, after which he stagedives into the crowd. Those that got a handful of Iggy are surely blessed – the man has earned every wrinkle. On the drums, Helders looks absolutely ecstatic; meanwhile a sharp-looking Homme has the sense to remain in a supporting role, contributing camp backing vocals and a biting guitar. Tonight, Pop reaffirmed that he is an American classic. 