If you like movie confrontation, then take your seats for a battle of epic proportions: trans people v Hollywood.The trans community has long objected to the way major film companies have sidelined trans actors, while simultaneously demonising or pathologising trans characters. This has just grown worse as trans has become newsworthy.There was outrage in 2015 as Roland Emmerich attempted to rewrite the history of the Stonewall riots by substituting cute, white and gay for real activists: people of colour, trans women, lesbians and drag queens.There were mixed feelings too over The Danish Girl, and things soured considerably when the film’s lead, Eddie Redmayne, decided that playing a trans character gave him carte blanche to lecture the world on trans issues – or “Redmayning”, as it is now called.This year the studios have announced (Re)assignment, a fairly ludicrous sounding revenge fantasy about a hitman who undergoes forced gender reassignment surgery; and – the final straw - Mark Ruffalo, the executive producer of Anything, has defended the casting of Mark Bomer as a trans woman.The trans actor Jen Richards responded magnificently to the news, warning Hollywood that casting non-trans actors in trans roles was not just offensive, but dangerous. Ruffalo rather meekly replied that we are all learning and wished he had known this sooner. The trans community seethed.Is this battle wise? Ruffalo is known, after all, for turning monstrously green when angry and trashing tall tower blocks with his bare hands. Although he was nice to the Black Widow. Or was that just an on-screen thing?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The trans actor Jen Richards ‘responded magnificently to Mark Ruffalo’s casting of Mark Bomer as a trans woman’. Photograph: Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty ImagesWhich is exactly Richards’ point. Movies create a halo effect, endowing real people with imagined characteristics. Trans authenticity is already frequently challenged: so casting non-trans actors, and pushing a narrative that suggests being trans is just a matter of acting or “putting on a dress”, contributes directly to discrimination and violence.And despite Ruffalo’s protestations, it’s not hard to do better. Here are some pointers for would-be movie moguls keen to cover the topical issue of trans life:Involve trans peopleIn the UK groups such as Trans Media Watch and All About Trans, will help you to understand the sensitivities and the issues and put you in touch with real trans people. No one is going to lay down the law: but they will let you know if you are falling into cliche and tired tropes.Explore actual trans narrativesNot every film need mimic mundane reality. There is drama, comedy and interest aplenty in the lived experience of ordinary trans folk. Likewise not every trans person is hero or villain, homicidal axe murderer or pathetic victim. In fact most trans people are very ordinary indeed. Don’t obsess over the extraordinary or dwell on negatives.Avoid unnecessary triggersTrans people are so often a target for violence and discrimination, it would be preferable if we weren’t constantly reminded of this. Happy endings are good, but so too is not finishing face down in a gutter.Stop and think about when to use trans and non-trans actorsThis doesn’t mean handing every trans role to a trans person (The Danish Girl, covering transition, is a case in point). Nor is it about relegating trans actors to a trans ghetto. Do, though, consider the impact of casting on both the trans community and audience. If you do use non-trans actors, casting according to (final) gender rather than initial body type is preferableBut don’t keep giving trans roles to non-trans peopleThis plays straight into the hands of those who would harm us politically, legislatively or on the streetsLearn from the bestFilms like Tangerine and Paris Is Burning, or TV series like Her Story – even The Matrix, which just brims with trans imagery and symbolism – all point the way to doing trans better.Above all, when you’ve just, for the umpteenth time, done something that the trans community loathes and feels misrepresented by – and has told you so – don’t mutter self-deprecatingly about the need to learn and promise to get it right next time. Because the trans community is fed up with jam tomorrow. Tolerance of Hollywood’s carelessness is at an all-time low and if things don’t improve, then, as they say in the movies: “This means war!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Films like Paris Is Burning point the way to doing trans better.’ Photograph: Alamy