Visitors to Frieze 2016 can consider splashing out on a Grayson Perry tapestry, a gleaming Anish Kapoor sculpture, or an ancient Cretan parade ground bronze helmet with detailed decorative engravings. Or they can spend £20,000 and own the idea of transporting more than 13 tonnes of plasterboard.The 14th edition of Frieze London opens to the general public on Thursday. Now established as one of the world’s most important art fairs, there are hundreds of commercial art galleries selling the work of thousands of artists. A visitor could spend all day wandering round the vast marquees in Regent’s Park and still not feel they have seen everything.Or indeed believe what they have seen. At the stand of the young and cool Peckham gallery, The Sunday Painter, the gallerist Will Jarvis is enthusing about pallets of industrial plasterboard, so heavy the floor had to be specially reinforced.“The artwork is the concept of the work,” said Jarvis. “This [plasterboard] all goes back into the system from which it came. This is a diversion. Our booth here is an active depot, a diversion from the manufacturer.“It is a dematerialised artwork, it never really existed.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Visitors sit on an interactive piece of art by Canadian artist Jon Rafman entitled Trans Dimensional Serpent. Photograph: Felix ClayThe work, called Marsh Lane Diversion, is by Rob Chavasse and on sale, for £20,000, is the concept of the work, as in transporting 576 sheets of plasterboard for public display, which then goes back into the system. “It is not easy,” admitted Jarvis. “But it is very good.”The Sunday Painter is one of about 160 galleries at the contemporary art fair and for all of them being distinctive is crucial. At the stand of mega-gallery Hauser & Wirth visitors walk into what appears to be the recreated studio of one artist. The reality is that it is a fantasy studio containing unidentified works by the gallery’s roster of artists, which number Phyllida Barlow, Louise Bourgeois, Roni Horn and Martin Creed among them.Neil Wenman, a senior director at the gallery, is responsible for the stand. “I visited so many studio spaces within museums, I started to realise there’s quite a high level of artistic licence used in the recreation of the spaces.“This is very tongue in cheek,” he said. “We are building fantasies and narratives for you to create your own stories.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A woman takes a picture of an artwork entitled Missing Pieces from a Fall of Corners by US artist Samara Golden at the Frieze Art Fair in London. Photograph: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty ImagesIt might confuse buyers, but Wenman hopes it might also delight them. “I think it is an adventure and it’s going to be a challenge but that’s good, that’s what art fairs are about. It should be about questioning the whole process of what you are doing and why you are here.”Confusing visitors is definitely a good thing. The performance artist Julie Verhoeven has laid down pink carpet in the gents’ toilets and blue carpet in the ladies’. She is inside, dressed as a chaotic toilet attendant. Many visitors walk in, think for a few seconds, and then leave.While there is and will be a lot of wealth wandering around Frieze, gallerists and artists contend it is not simply about the money.The ceramic artist Edmund de Waal, for example, is exhibiting a year’s worth of work at the Gagosian stand and for him it is all about getting his art seen.“More people will come to see this than any museum show I’ve had,” he said. “And the demographic is incredibly young. It is just a different way of doing things. It is a hugely big deal for me.”It is particularly thrilling because De Waal has curated what is essentially an exhibition of works he said were elegies for places and people that matter to him.A 15-minute walk away from the contemporary art is the fifth edition of Frieze Masters with about 130 galleries showing older art.At the stand of Kallos gallery, founded in 2014 by Lorne Thyssen-Bornemisza, there is a spectacular 650BC Cretan helmet, which he bought at auction 10 years ago and then “just put it away. This is the first time we’ve shown it, it’s our star piece”. The helmet will set someone back in the region of £3m.The number of galleries selling antiquities at Frieze Masters has grown markedly, a reflection of the growing market, said Thyssen-Bornemisza. “There is a lot of interest in the ancient world and a lot of it has has been generated by authors - Mary Beard, Robert Harris, Bethany Hughes … Boris Johnson!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frieze London is one of the world’s most important art fairs. Photograph: Nick Harvey/Rex/ShutterstockElsewhere at the Frieze Masters fair, you can think about buying a copy of the groundbreaking map of London which was made by John Ogilby after the Great Fire of London or a bronze bust by Eduardo Paolozzi.It is not just the public buying. The galleries are out in force too, including the Tate, which had £150,000 to spend courtesy of the talent agency WME/IMG.Curators said they had acquired works that will now go into the permanent collection – by Phillip Lai, Leonor Antunes and Hüseyin Bahri AlptekinFrieze London runs 6-9 October at Regent’s Park, London