Nobody knows how to work on a dream like Nicola Adams. As a young girl, she told her mother she was going to win a gold medal boxing at the Olympics. It wasn’t so much an ambition as a crazy fantasy: women’s boxing wasn’t even an Olympic sport at the time. But sure enough, Adams went on to become the first woman to win gold, at the London Olympics. Four years later, in Rio, she wept when she won gold again, becoming the first British boxer to retain an Olympic title since in 1924. She is a hero of mine – as a boxer (technically gifted and balletic, she dances like a pint-sized Muhammad Ali), as an accidental role model (the lack of fuss with which she revealed she was bisexual), as a life force (that luminous smile).We meet in a south London photographer’s studio, just a few days after her first professional fight. Adams won the bout; she has also just got engaged to her girlfriend, Mexican-American boxer Marlen Esparza, and is living a sun-blushed life in San Francisco. Things could not be better. Perhaps this is what has made her ready to confront some of the unhappiest periods in her life.Esparza is with her today, advising her on the photoshoot, telling her how hot she looks. The pair seem deliriously in love; and theirs must be one of the most romantic stories in the history of boxing. In her new autobiography, Believe, Adams says that when she was first introduced to Esparza, she was so taken by her she could not speak – nor the second time they met. The third time, she couldn’t stop talking. While Adams is having her photograph taken, Esparza tells me this is all true; that when they met she thought Adams was plain weird. But not for long.Esparza is 27, seven years younger than Adams, and tells me, “I’m a lot meaner than Nicky. People take to her a lot quicker, because she looks more approachable. But when it comes to people she doesn’t know, she gets really nervous. She can be socially awkward.” Does she realise that? “Not really. I’ll say, ‘You’re self-conscious’, and she’s ‘No, I just feel weird.’ If you point out a flaw, she doesn’t recognise it. She likes to describe things in an optimistic way, and I like to describe things in a realistic way.”When Adams sits down with me, I see what Esparza means. Adams looks into the distance, and answers in terse monosyllables – not aggressively, just self-consciously. But then she suddenly relaxes, and the contrast could not be more extreme: direct eye-contact, full answers, engaged, surprising. In fact, she turns out to be one of the most open people I have met.The young Nicola was a frail little thing, waylaid by asthma, allergies, eczema. When she was five, the doctor told her mother she had better not let her run around, lest it trigger her asthma. Adams wasn’t having any of it: “Try and tell a five-year-old kid they can’t run up and down. It’s pretty much impossible,” she says in her hard, flat Yorkshire accent.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adams celebrates winning the flyweight gold medal at the Rio Olympics in 2016. Photograph: Associated PressAdams has always said she fluked her way into boxing. When she was 12, her mother, Dee, went to an aerobics class and, not wanting to leave her two children home alone (her babysitter had cancelled), took them with her to the gym. It just so happened that there was a children’s boxing class on that day, which Nicola fancied – and that was that.She told anybody who would listen that she would become an Olympic boxer. Few took her seriously. Although women’s boxing goes back to the 18th century, and appeared at the 1904 Olympics in a demonstration bout, it was not introduced as an Olympic sport until 2012. In England it was banned for more than a century, on the grounds that premenstrual syndrome made women too unstable to box. It wasn’t until November 1996 that the Amateur Boxing Association of England controversially voted in favour of lifting the ban, allowing girls as young as 10 to compete and to spar in gyms.Adams had her first fight a year before the ban was lifted, aged 13, at a working men’s club in Leeds. She won, and then didn’t fight for four years: there simply weren’t any girls to fight. Surely she must have been tempted to give up? “Naaah.” She grins. “I still enjoyed the training. I’d go with the guys to support them when they were competing. It used to get me frustrated sometimes, because all I wanted to do was get in the ring.” Did she fight boys? “No. I used to spar boys, but I wasn’t allowed to box them.”As we talk, it emerges that, beyond her chance start in boxing, Adams might have had a more profound motivation. In a chapter of her memoir tellingly entitled Round 1, she writes that her parents separated when she was 11, and that her mother “had put up with a lot”. She describes an incident that happened when she was around four and her parents were arguing. “I just wanted to get between them, so I jumped in front of my mum and tried to protect her with a plastic sword. I thought I could keep my dad away. My mum reckons that, even then, I was brave.” From the age of eight, she says, she begged her mother to leave her father; three years later, she did. My dad was hitting my mum when I was trying to hit him with my plastic sword to protect her Why was she so desperate for her mother to leave? “I knew she wasn’t happy and that made me unhappy as well. She’s such a bubbly, joyful person. I didn’t like the way I was seeing her being treated.” In her book, she says she hoped her father, Innocent, would change and learn, but he never did. What did he need to learn? “I guess just to be a better person, and to be nicer to my mum.” Adams is looking into the middle distance. Was her father violent to her mother? “Yes. My dad was hitting my mum when I was trying to hit him with my plastic sword to protect her.” And did he ever hit Nicola? “Yes. Just the odd slap here and there. But I was more concerned about my mum. I tried to fight back, but I was a bit small.” She looks at me, and even now that smile is luminous.There is no doubt who the hero of her book, and life, is: Dee. In her early years, Adams’ family were comfortably off. Both parents were working (her father as a plasterer, her mother as a restaurant manager), and every summer they left Leeds to spend six weeks in New York with relatives. Adams talks about how they moved to a new estate after her mother left her father; how her mother took on two jobs, working day and night to make ends meet; how her mother’s black uniform went grey with rewashing. She worked, at different times, as a manager for a jewellery company, for a restaurant, and as a hairdresser.However tough it was, Adams says her family life was transformed. The three of them (Dee, Adams, and her younger brother Kurtis) became an even closer unit. “We started laughing, and joking.” Had it been hard to laugh before? “Yeah, it was tough because you didn’t want to do anything where you could get into trouble… everybody would be tiptoeing around.” Would her father go off without warning? “Yes.” Did he drink? “No, not a lot – he was just really controlling. My mum wouldn’t be allowed to go out with her friends.”While there were times she missed her father, Adams says she was relieved her mother had finally gathered the courage to make a fresh start. She understands why she found it hard to leave, describing a situation where “the other person is so controlling that they feel they can’t, or they feel they’re not mentally strong enough to do things on their own.”Did her father scare her when she was a little girl? “Yes. He was huge. He’s not big no more, though.” She laughs. I bet you weren’t laughing back then, I say. “No, it was scary.” I ask her if she would ever campaign against domestic violence. “Yeah, I’d love to work with that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In Florida on her 21st birthday with her younger brother, Kurtis, and her mother, Dee. Photograph: Courtesy of Nicola AdamsA year after her parents separated, Adams started boxing. Does she think the two things had anything to do with each other? “I don’t know,” she says. “I’ve never really thought about it that way. I’ve always been quite strong-minded. Maybe somewhere it did. At the time, I enjoyed boxing because it was a place I could go to escape. All the kids in the gym had problems, and it was a place you didn’t have to think about them.”Before her father left, Adams had enjoyed watching classic matches with him on television. Does he deserve any credit for her success? She thinks long and hard. “I don’t know, because if my mum hadn’t taken me by mistake I wouldn’t have thought for one second I was going to be a boxer. She’s the reason I ended up boxing.”At the age of 14, there was another family crisis. Dee contracted meningitis and almost died. Adams called the ambulance when she found her mother could barely walk, her speech slurred. And it was Adams who demanded that something urgent be done when she was left for three hours at the hospital. By then, Dee could not remember her date of birth or how many children she had. When the hospital eventually carried out tests, Adams says, they discovered her mother’s brain had begun to shut down; she had had only a couple of hours to live.Dee’s recovery was slow and laborious. Twenty years on, she still suffers the after-effects, and while she recovered, Adams had to look after both herself and her brother. This is when she grew up; the word she uses repeatedly to describe herself through this period is “strong”. The one time she wept was in private. “I was by myself in the hospital cafeteria and I just broke down. I didn’t ever let my brother see me cry, because I didn’t want him to think things were really bad. I stayed strong for him. And I had to stay strong for Mum.”To complicate matters, at the age of 15, Adams was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. As always, she tries to see this as a positive. “I think it’s helped my training. I never get tired. I’ve always got energy. It helps with my shots. I’m always trying new things.” When you have ADHD, you can start a million things, but it’s very hard to focus and just finish one thing Sitting nearby, Esparza looks up from her phone and laughs. “I know I’ll never be bored, because I never know what she’s going to do. It’s hard to keep up with her.”Is Adams calmer these days? ”Well, I’m on Adderall, so I’m more focused. I stopped for a bit, but went on it again. When you have ADHD you can start a million things, but it’s very hard to focus and just finish one thing. The Adderall helps.”I ask if she worked hard at school. “Only at classes I liked, like science and maths.” She once said her favourite book is Freakonomics, Steven Levitt and Stephen J Dubner’s study of economics based on the principle of incentives. Adams lights up like a pinball machine when I mention it. She smiles with her eyes, cheeks and nose. Even her ears seem to smile. “I really like that book because it explains economics in a fun way. Let me think of an example. Like, how drug dealers basically make the same amount of money as people working in McDonald’s.” She stops and corrects herself. “That might be in SuperFreakonomics, the second one.”Is she a big reader? “I’ve read Bill Bryson’s History Of Nearly Everything. I liked that. What else? The God Delusion, the Richard Dawkins book.” Blimey, I say – but you’re a Christian, aren’t you? She grins. “Yeah. I was intrigued. I like trying to understand different views and perceptions. There are bits where it makes you question things. You think: ‘That’s a good point.’” So did Dawkins convert her? “Nah. I’m hanging on my own side!”At school, she was a talented sprinter, running 100m and 200m for Leeds as a teenager. She might have made a career of running, if she wasn’t so taken with boxing. At 17, she got the chance to box for the second time, as “Babyface Adams”, winning with a knockout in the second round. There were still few fights to be had in Britain, so she travelled Europe to spar and compete. In 2001, she became the first woman boxer to represent England. In 2003, aged 20, she became English amateur champion.Adams was still studying – first business studies, physical education and software development at college, then a BTec in sports science at Hopwood Hall in Rochdale. The main reason she went to Hopwood Hall was because the boxing coach Alwyn Belcher worked there: she was desperate for him to turn her into a champ. Like most of the men she came across, he was reluctant to train a woman, but in 2007 he coached her to a silver medal at the European Championships. A year later, she won another silver at the World Championships in China.The attitude to women boxers was still primitive. There was little funding, hopeless facilities, no respect. Adams says that female boxers were treated like the kind of “novelty act you get on Britain’s Got Talent”. In her book, she describes how sometimes one girl would finish boxing and hand over her top and shorts, dripping in sweat, to the next girl to fight in. “That was only 2008,” she says today, the same year she won her silver at the World Championships. “It was shocking. You’d think it was the 1950s or something.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Who’d win in a fight? We don’t know’: with her fiancee, boxer Marlen Esparza. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockAdams is also a keen actor, and subsidised herself by appearing as an extra in TV shows, including Waterloo Road and Coronation Street. She had hoped that women’s boxing would be introduced as an Olympic sport in 2008, but it wasn’t to be. In fact, 2008 proved a disastrous year. She slipped on a boxing bandage, fell downstairs and cracked a vertebra in her back. For five months, she had to wear a body cast moulded to the top half of her body, in agony, bored silly. She didn’t box for more than a year. But in August 2009, she was given the best incentive to get fit again when it was announced that women’s boxing was going to be included in the next Olympics.And in 2012, she danced, jabbed and clubbed her way to gold in the flyweight final, in front of a crowd of 10,000, outclassing her great rival, China’s Ren Cancan (Cancan had beaten her in the finals of the 2010 and 2012 World Championships, as well as beating Esparza in the Olympic semi-final). It was one of the great moments of London 2012: the crowd roaring so loudly you couldn’t hear the commentary, Adams punching the air triumphantly at the end, history being made. After her parents separated, Adams, her mother and brother became a close unit. 'We started laughing again' Adams made it clear who the gold medal was for, as she does today. “It was all for my mum. I always promised her I was going to be the best.” So she was shocked when her father turned up in the family area afterwards. “I was a bit angry, because how many other tournaments have I been to? But this is the only one you’re going to be there for, because it’s the Olympics.”Did she tell him to leave? “No, because I didn’t want to spoil the mood.” Had he supported her in any way since he left? “I got the occasional birthday or Christmas present. I stopped accepting them from him not long after 2012. I don’t have anything to do with him at all now.”The turning point came, she says, when they had a phone conversation soon after her victory. “I said, ‘Just apologise for the way you were with my mum and with me.’ And he didn’t even admit anything that happened in the past, so I was like, ‘OK, that’s it, I’m done.’ I was angry. Really angry.’” That was their last contact? “Yes. Then he messaged me to say good luck for Rio. And it’s like, well what about the Commonwealth Games, the Europeans, the World Championships and all the other tournaments I’ve had for the past four years? What about good luck for the qualifiers?”When I asked him to comment, Innocent Adams confirmed he had refused to apologise to his daughter and ex-wife, because he didn’t feel he had anything to apologise for. “The allegations made are completely false,” he said. “I have never been violent towards my ex-wife or Nicola. This is just a defamation of my good character.” Dee Adams stands by her daughter’s version of events.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adams wears top and trousers from charli-cohen.com, trainers, Adams’ own.Styling: Melanie Wilkinson. Hair: Sofia Sjoo at Stella Creative Artists. Makeup: Lou Dartford at Stella Creative Artists. Photograph: Valerie Phillips for the GuardianNow Adams plans to become Britain’s first female professional world champion, boxing as “the Lioness”. She is managed by Frank Warren, who only three years ago said, “I don’t like women’s boxing. Never have, and never will.” Why has she agreed to be represented by such a dinosaur? Simple, she says. “He’s seen the light. He’s totally come round to us. I had the meeting with him, and he didn’t shy away from what he’d said in the past. He said, ‘Seeing you compete over the years has changed my mind.’ He thinks I could do really big things in the pros. He believes in what I want to do for women’s boxing – get it to the same level as the men’s. I’d love to be able to headline a show in Vegas at the MGM.” In other words, he’s a businessman who has finally realised you are marketable? She grins. “Exactly.”Does she enjoy boxing as much as she used to? “Yes!” she says, and once she starts talking about the joy of boxing, it’s hard to stop her. “It’s one of those sports where you’re never the finished article. There’s always something more to learn; a new move – you could always be faster, stronger, more technical. That’s what I enjoy about it most. In boxing, it doesn’t matter if your speed goes a little bit. Take Canelo [Alvarez] and Floyd Mayweather when they fought. You had someone really young and strong, and you have someone who is older and a lot more skilful, and he just had the smarts to outmanoeuvre the younger guy.”Does anything else give her a buzz like boxing? She looks at Esparza. “The only thing that gives me the same adrenaline is driving on the race tracks.” She’s not going to swap boxing for Formula One?Esparza shakes her head furiously. “She’s not going to be a racing driver,” she says. Because it’s dangerous, or unrealistic? “Cos it’s dangerous. She’d do it and she’d probably be good at it, but she’s not going to do it. You can’t control a car like you think you can.” She looks at Adams. “We’ve talked about this.”Adams is hooting with laughter. Esparza hasn’t finished. “She’s the kind of person who, when she has fun with something and she wants to do it, she does it. That’s what I like about her. But not that. I said to her, if you do that I can climb Mount Everest. One danger for another. And she said no to that.”But surely boxing is dangerous? “There’s always a danger when you do sport,” Adams says, “and it’s whether you’re happy with the risks involved, and I’m happy. The first thing you learn is not to get hit.’’ I’d love to headline a show in Las Vegas. There’s always something to learn: you could always be faster, stronger Now that she is boxing professionally, she is fighting for the first time without a headguard. Does she fear a punch in the head? “Nah, that’s boxing. You get in the shower, you’re going to get wet. And it’s a lot easier. The helmet blocks your peripheral vision. Now, I can see everything. Plus my head’s a much smaller target now.”Adams and Esparza have been together for just over a year, and alternate between Adams’ home in Leeds and Esparza’s in San Francisco. Where does she prefer? “I like the weather.” In Leeds? “San Francisco! We train over there.” She thinks they might move there permanently.I ask Adams if Esparza has changed her. “Yes, I’m happier – if that was possible.” She laughs. “I never thought you could be that happy being with someone. I just thought it was something you saw in movies. I thought, ‘Really? Nobody actually loves somebody like that – it’s just too far!’ But now I know the movies are true.”Is it true that Esparza had only been out with men before? “Yes,” she says. “But Nicky just put them to shame.”Would they ever fight each other? No way, they say simultaneously. They expected to in the past, when they fought in the same weight division – but now Esparza is a weight lower.They talk about how different they are as boxers. “I’m very aggressive,” Esparza says. “There’s a lot going on all the time in my fights. She’s more of a counter-puncher, lets people come to her. I’m more: ‘I’m going to come to you.’”Who would win in a fight?“Don’t know,” they chorus.I ask Adams what her ultimate ambition as a boxer is. “I want to be remembered as the greatest, just like my hero, Muhammad Ali.”Has Esparza got anything to say about that? “About her being the best ever? I’m pretty sure I will be. I have to be. I don’t do this for no reason.” They look at each other and laugh.“We do have a rivalry about who is going to be the best,” Adams says.“It’s the elephant in the relationship,” Esparza says.At 34, Adams thinks she is at her peak. There is so much going on in her life: a wedding to plan, the new book, an acting career to get off the ground. She knows she has got her work cut out if she is going to be remembered as the greatest female boxer ever. But then Adams has a knack of realising her dreams. ‘My first match was in a smoke-filled room, my lungs on fire’: an exclusive extract from Nicola Adams’ new bookMy new life started when I was 12, not long after my parents split up, because that’s when I discovered boxing. My mum went to her aerobics class, and Kurtis and I waited in the gym outside, which happened to be a boxing gym. I remember looking around and being so taken aback. The super-heavyweights were pounding away on bags, and people were sparring each other. It was a proper, old-school, Rocky-style gym, with steamed-up windows and peeling paint. I instantly fell in love with the place. I stood there and thought, ‘This must have been what it was like for Muhammad Ali when he was starting out.’Ali had always been a big idol of mine, because I used to watch all of his fights on TV with my dad. But I hadn’t imagined for a minute it was something I might do one day.That day, I had a choice of either sitting around or getting involved in the boxing. The coach, Steve Franks, asked if I fancied giving it a go, and I thought, ‘Why not?’ The first thing he got me to do was punching pads, and it just felt right and I wanted to do more. When I got home that night I couldn’t stop talking about it and begged my mum to take me back.The gym ran a junior boxing club and an after-school club. The more I went, the more hooked I got. I felt like the people there understood me. Over the next couple of weeks I learned to shadow-box; I soon perfected my stance and started learning to jab. I didn’t think about the fact that it was such a male environment and I was this young girl. Steve said, really early on, that the gym wasn’t male or female – it was just a boxing gym. He had one rule and that was that we all listened to him. One day he took my mum aside and told her he thought I had real potential. My first competitive match took place in a working men’s club in Leeds when I was 13 When I turned 13, Mum started letting me go to the gym on my own. I had to spar with guys a lot and quite often I gave them a good run for their money. My brother started boxing a bit as well and I used to spar with him sometimes, which I loved. He thought he could beat me: there was no way.None of my female friends boxed, but I soon made friends at the gym. I didn’t see it as a big deal, and none of my mates, male or female, did, either. Maybe if I’d started later it would have seemed strange, but at 12 you don’t analyse these things. You follow your heart.My first competitive match took place in a working men’s club in Leeds when I was 13. My family came to watch me and I was so excited I kept peeping through the curtains to look at the audience. Steve wanted me to conserve my energy for the match, but I just wanted to get out into the ring and show people what I could do. I chose Ini Kamoze’s Here Comes the Hotstepper to walk out to.Anthony Joshua looks to inspire next generation as golden future beckons I’d been watching a lot of Prince Naseem’s fights, so when I stepped into the ring I started doing his moves, like the shuffle, and engaging with the audience. Putting on a show has been really important to me since day one, because boxing should be about entertainment as much as everything else. I wasn’t scared about getting hit because I’d been boxing for a year and I knew that, if it did happen, I’d take it all in my stride.I think that was the first time most of the people in the club had seen a girl box, and I imagined they would all carry on drinking their pints and chatting but, amazingly, they all paid attention. I was pleasantly surprised. The match took place before the smoking ban came in and the entire room was thick with smoke. I remember going back to the corner at the end of the first and second rounds. My lungs were on fire. Steve told me stories about how, when he boxed as a youngster, even the coach was allowed to smoke. He’d be trying to get his breath back in the middle of a match and his coach would be blowing smoke in his face. Can you imagine? The smoking ban is one of the best things that has ever happened, in my opinion.I won the match and, that was the moment I decided that, one day, I was going to be an Olympic champion. When I used to tell people I was going to win gold, they’d laugh at me, but I didn’t care. One day, I was going to prove them all wrong.• This is an edited extract from Believe, by Nicola Adams, published on 18 May by Viking at £14.99. To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.