Denise Robertson, the long-serving agony aunt on daytime television show This Morning, has died aged 83.Robertson, who was a regular on the ITV programme since it first aired in 1988, had pancreatic cancer.Her death comes weeks after a statement read out by presenter Ruth Langsford told viewers that she had been diagnosed with the illness.Phillip Schofield, a presenter on This Morning, paid tribute to Robertson on Twitter. “I’m heartbroken at the passing of our #itvthismorning icon Denise Robertson. Kind, thoughtful, caring and wonderful,” he said.The news was posted on the official This Morning Twitter account on Friday.This Morning (@itvthismorning)Such sad news- our friend and colleague Denise Robertson has lost her short but determined battle against cancer. Full tribute at 10.30.April 1, 2016Robertson, who was from Sunderland, lost her stepson John to cancer in 2006 aged 44, and her husband Alex died from lung cancer in 1972.In the statement in February, Robertson, who had an advice website and wrote a column for Candis magazine, said: “I’m sorry I’ve not been around for a couple of weeks, but a persistent health issue has turned into something quite a lot bigger. I’ve been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. “It has come as a surprise to me and my family, but we know that many others have suffered and dealt with this condition, and I don’t plan to give up without a fight. My doctor is referring me for chemotherapy and hopefully that will start soon. “I’d like to thank all the lovely viewers of This Morning who have been concerned about my health recently and I hope I’ll be back on the sofa soon.” Robertson was offered her own TV show in 2000, following her success on This Morning, called Dear Denise. She also appeared as a relationship expert on Dave Gorman’s Important Astrology Experiment in 2002 and was a regular on Big Brother’s Bit on the Side.In 2006, Robertson, who had kept her first husband’s surname when she remarried, was awarded an MBE for services to charity and broadcasting. Holly Willoughby, co-presenter on This Morning, posted a picture on Instagram of her with Robertson sharing a drink. She wrote: “Yesterday we lost this gorgeous lady after her brave fight with cancer. We will miss her deeply. Denise you were quite simply one of life’s good ones.”