What happened after France’s environment minister Ségolène Royal urged people to stop eating Nutella because it contains palm oil?   Nigella Lawson invented a new Nutella Gâteau recipe, prompting a British newspaper to rename her “Nutella Lawson”    Luca Galletti, Royal’s Italian counterpart, told her to “leave Italian products alone”    A Google Doodle of Nutella oozing on to a piece of toast appeared on the search engine In 2012 French senators tried to impose a 300% tax on palm oil, saying it was dangerously fattening and bad for the environment. What was the reaction?   A senator, and owner of a bakery chain, secretly stocked up on the oil in the week before the tax was imposed    French actor Gérard Depardieu staged a protest in support of “la bouffe delicieuse, qui fait grossir ou pas!” (“delicious foods, fattening or not!”)    The measure was defeated and Le Monde journalist Luc Bronner tweeted that a "Nutella-Communist alliance" had rescued the country The story of palm oil starts in the rainforest. A typical 4sq mile patch of rainforest contains   25 species of tree    150 species of tree    750 species of tree Scientists regularly discover new species in these rainforests, but what is Phobaeticus chani, discovered in the Heart of Borneo in 2008?   The world’s longest known stick insect    A flame-coloured frog that measures less than 2cm in length    A long-tailed slug that makes the use of "love darts" in courtship From 13 December last year, new EU laws made it mandatory for palm oil to be declared on product labelling. But which of these treats contains no palm oil?   Kit Kat    Pot Noodle    Mini cheddars    Bounty Palm oil is the most used vegetable oil in the world. Which of these countries is the biggest importer?   India    The US    Thailand    Switzerland Researchers at the University of Bath believe they may have discovered a viable alternative to palm oil. What is it?   Coconut    Rapeseed    Soybean    Yeast You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers