While Microsoft placed the emphasis of its E3 press conference on new hardware and services, Sony went with games, games and more games. A new start for the bloody God of War series, a fresh Spider-Man adventure and a creepy-looking Resident Evil 7 were all well received by the large crown at LA’s Shrine Auditorium, as was the announcement of Hideo Kojima’s next project, Death Stranding.God of War provided the opening shot of the evening, featuring a new, older Kratos, who has now been transported from Greek to Norse mythology (though he still seems to bear his old Spartan scars). In a play-through shown onstage we see the bald slaughterer sporting not only a beard, but a young son, who he’s trying to teach how to hunt deer. The boy makes several mistakes though, and is then attacked by strange demon-like warriors, who Kratos attacks with an axe and a deadly range of melee moves. The sequence ends with a boss fight with a giant troll in which the son accidentally shoots his father with an arrow. The demo is visually impressive with a crisp and cold evocation of a Scandinavian forest as well as excellent cloth and hair effects. It also hints at some devastating abilities from Kratos, and suggests that the relationship with his son will be crucial: after the boss fight, the boy finally snags that deer, at which point a message on the screen states “knowledge gained: archery, 60+”, which suggests a kind of inter-generational levelling up system.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spider-Man. Photograph: SonyElsewhere, we saw an epic city-smashing set piece from a new Spider-Man game by Insomniac, the creators of Ratchet & Clank and the Resistance series. We see the web slinger battling through a chaotic New York street, with cars, enemies and everything else flying past. In an interview with Engadget, the company promised a “brand-new, authentic Spider-Man story” and an “experienced Peter Parker who is more masterful at fighting crime”.Resident Evil 7 Biohazard provided a neat surprise with a demo featuring an unknown character seemingly coming to in a ramshackle abandoned home which he begins to explore via torch light. He passes frightening shop window mannequins, takes a threatening phone call then gets downstairs, where a scary looking figure zips past a doorway in the background. The teaser ends with the character playing a video tape which shows found footage of what seem to be previous unwary investigators of the same property.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Resident Evil 7. Photograph: CapcomThough it takes place after Resident Evil 6, the latest instalment is clearly influenced by earlier Resi titles as well as Silent Hill, Fatal Frame and Kojima-san’s P.T trailer, it looks like a dark, tense supernatural thriller rather than the vaguely zombie-based shooters that followed Resi 4. The game is coming in January to PC and Xbox One as well as PS4, but it’ll almost be entirely playable on the PlayStation VR headset.Also shown, was an intriguing moment from the forthcoming Quantic Dreams thriller Detroit: Become Human, in which the player protagonist Connor has to talk another android out of hurling a small girl off the roof of a tall building. We’re shown how player actions and dialogue choices lead to several different possible outcomes, hinting at a Heavy Rain-style exploration of guilt and culpability.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Days Gone. Photograph: SonyDays Gone is a post-apocalyptic zombie adventure from Sony Bend Studio, set in a vast open expance of the Pacific North West. The player takes control of Deacon St John, a wayfaring bounty hunter who tracks down criminals while thousands of mindless monster people roam the streets. It looks more action-based than State of Decay, but also more expansive than Dead Rising 4. Does the world need another post-apocalypse though?Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare made an appearance so that developer Infinity Ward could show off the seamlessness of its missions. Players are able to leave the Retribution mother ship, indulge in space combat in a fighter craft, then board an alien vessel, working along the outside of the hull, using a kind of grappling hook to snare enemies and rip off their helmets. Then once your in the craft, it’s possible to either destroy it or salvage weapons and items. As with last year’s Sony conference, there was a lot of fan service, a lot of old friends – like Kratos and Crash Bandicoot (getting a reboot soon) – returning to the fray. But there was also a lot of support for PlayStation VR, which now has a launch date of 13 October. Virtual reality modes and demos based on Batman Arkham, Star Wars Battlefront and Final Fantasy XV were briefly shown, and Sony promised that 50 VR projects would be released between October and Christmas. Finally, the long awaited Last Guardian got a release date of 26 October. This is a title Sony has been promising for years and many fans of developer Fumito Ueda must have feared they’d never see it. It was one of the very few titles shown at the conference that is actually out in 2016 – so the pressure is really on.