Fans of Serial, This American Life’s spinoff podcast that debuted in October 2014, were treated to a surprise on Thursday. Host and producer Sarah Koenig, took a break from reporting on the case of Bowe Bergdhal for the broadcast’s current second season, is back covering season one subject Adnan Syed’s hearing for post-conviction relief.Serial podcast subject Adnan Syed to be profiled in new book “This week I’m going to do something I haven’t done before, which is duck back into Adnan Syed’s case for a few days, to report on a court proceeding that’s happening in Baltimore,” Koenig wrote in a newsletter to Serial subscribers.In 1999, Syed was tried for the murder of Hae Min Lee and found guilty in a case that included data from cell towers that claimed to show his cellphone had been used near the location where Lee’s body was discovered. As the Serial podcast recounted, the reliability of the cell tower information calls into question Syed’s accountability. Since the first season of Serial ended its run last August, Syed’s case has been reopened by a Maryland judge.Koenig is currently on the scene in Baltimore to report on the three-day hearing, which marks a continuation of Syed’s petition for post-conviction relief that he first filed back in 2010.The first 15-minute episode, released on Thursday, finds Koenig recounting her observations of her first day in court, to producer Dana Chivvis. As Koenig reveals, much of the testimony on Wednesday centered on the effectiveness of M Cristina Gutierrez, Syed’s trial attorney. Gutierrez died in 2004, and two former associates who had worked with her, testified that Gutierrez had begun to decline physically and mentally, and was not fit to give Syed’s case the attention it deserved.But the highlight of the day came when a key figure from the first season of Serial, Asia McClain, offered her account that she had seen Syed at a Woodlawn library during the time when prosecutors said he had killed his former girlfriend. Maryland judge orders Serial subject Adnan Syed’s case reopened As Koenig said: “There was a lot of drama in the room when she was testifying.” She also noted how surreal it was to hear McClain say that Serial had persuaded her to come forward. “She was very sure of herself and what she remembered,” Koenig said of McClain. “She came off really well for the defense.” Koenig ends the episode suggesting that the attorneys for the state will “go really hard on her” on day two of the hearing.“I don’t think they’re going to try to discredit her exactly. I think what they’re going to say is: you think of yourself as a person with a really precise memory, but here are some ways in which we’re going to show you that your memory isn’t as precise as you think it is ... to show that if you have gotten on the stand at the time of Adnan’s trial, it wouldn’t have changed the course of the trial.”The Guardian is recapping Serial season two.