One multilingual writer’s very disparaging opinion of the art of translation declared it: 'A parrot’s screech, a monkey’s chatter,/And profanation of the dead'. Who?   Anthony Burgess    Julian Barnes    Rainer Maria Rilke    Vladimir Nabokov What the the original title of Stieg Larsson’s The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo in Swedish?   Men Who Hate Women Or 'Män som hatar kvinnor' in Swedish.    Men Who Love Women    Women Who Hate Men    Women Who Love Men Printed fiction in translation amounted to what percentage of UK book sales in 2015?   15%    10%    5%    1% Which writer said: 'Translation is the art of failure'?   Umberto Eco    George Eliot    TS Eliot    Günter Grass In Kafka’s Metamorphosis, Gregor Samsa is transformed into an ungeheures Ungeziefer. What insect has it NOT been translated as?   A monstrous vermin    A septic stagbeetle    A giant cockroach    A verminous bug Which of these translations is the ONLY one by a writer who began the project as an expert in the source's original language?   Ezra Pound's collection of classical Chinese poetry, Cathay    José Saramago's version of Leo Tolstoy's Anna Karenina    Charles Baudelaire's collection of Edgar Allen Poe's short stories, Histoires extraordinaires Saramago translated Anna Karenina from French to Portuguese; Pound used notes from another writer and did not know any Chinese language; and Heaney, who studied Old English as an undergraduate, described the process of translating Beowulf 30 years later as 'scriptorium-slow', proceeding 'dutifully like a sixth-former at homework.'    Seamus Heaney's Beowulf Which classic American novel was translated into Swedish as A Man Without Scruples (En man utan skrupler)?   The Talented Mr Ripley    Moby-Dick    The Great Gatsby    American Psycho Author Han Kang won the 2016 International Man Booker prize for her novel The Vegetarian. What language was it originally written in?   Japanese    Chinese    French    Korean In one poem, an English poet recalls reading a classic translation: 'Then felt I like some watcher of the skies/When a new planet swims into his ken'. Which poem is this from?   On First Looking Into Chapman’s Homer by John Keats    Tales from Ovid by Ted Hughes    Imitations by Robert Lowell    Orpheus by Don Paterson William Beckford's Vathek was composed in French, but first published in Samuel Henley's English translation. But what did Jorge Luis Borges make of Henley's translation?   "Henley's translation surpasses the original in both texture and mood."    "The flinty clarity of English fails to capture the 'indefinable horrors' of the original."    "The original is unfaithful to the translation."    "A cracking read, surely a strong contender for this year's Booker." Despite having practised the art, this writer is still baffled by the mystery of translation: 'How is it possible that a text that has been stripped of the language in which it was conceived could still be the same text? ... You think you are reading Dickens in Spanish or Cervantes in English and not one word of what you are reading was written or chosen by the author.' Who said this?   Michael Frayn    Javier Marías    Lydia Davis    Marie Darrieussecq According to which literary lion is a translation 'a different book', 'a book by the person who translated it' and having 'nothing to do with the original at all'?   Thomas Hardy    Thomas Bernhard    Thomas Clancy    Thomas Pynchon You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers