For most parents, the playground is a place to sit on a bench and fiddle with their phones while occasionally glancing up to check their children are still intact. Nothing can go too wrong, anyway: all the equipment is designed so there are no hard landings, jagged edges or dark hiding spaces.But a new exhibition at the Baltic gallery in Gateshead is celebrating the radical playgrounds designed by mid-20th century visionaries who wanted children to take risks away from mum or dad’s overprotective gaze.Between 1950 and 1980 the playground developed into a creative laboratory in which landscape architects, activists and artists experimented with ways of aiding the development of urban children.The star exhibit at The Playground Project is a Lozziwurm, a tangle of interlocking plastic pipes in which children can crawl, slide and hide. Designed by the eccentric Swiss sculptor Yvan “Lozzi” Pestalozzi in 1972, more than 100 Lozziwurms were installed in play parks and school yards all over Europe, but are now an endangered species due to health and safety regulations.“You can’t really get away with this sort of thing nowadays,” lamented the Baltic’s chief curator, Laurence Sillars, before the show’s Friday opening. “When playing in a public space now, children have to be surveyed at all times. Those moments of privacy where they can escape are long gone, for obvious reasons. It’s nice to remember how it used to be, but also use it as a bit of a rallying call to examine society’s approach to risk.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Playground Project explores the colourful history of the playground. Photograph: Mark Pinder/Meta-4In 2007, a woman successfully sued the Tate Modern after breaking her hand whizzing down one of Carsten Holler’s slides. Sillar insists the Baltic show is safe, but admits he is a little worried about mishaps on the climbing frame, or of children falling off the Lozziwurm. He hopes they will use the experience to learn. “It’s like with the old Routemaster buses, being allowed to just jump off the back. You might hurt your foot once but you’ll be more careful next time.”The Baltic show also features a sandpit filled with intriguing pipes and tools, a scrambling net and two rope swings hung from what look uncomfortably like gallows. Children are invited to play on the equipment while their parents look around the rest of the exhibition, which explores the history of the playground. The show, which began its life at the Kunsthalle Zürich, shines a spotlight on playground pioneers such as the French artist Niki de Saint Phalle, who in 1966 built a walk-in sculpture for all ages called She: A Cathedral. This took the form of a huge pregnant goddess that visitors entered via the figure’s spread legs; inside was a bar serving milk, a cinema and a slide.A film shows a Danish experiment by the landscape architect Carl Theodor Sørensen, a pioneer of “natural play”. Inspired by watching children playing on bomb sites and demolished buildings,, he designed a skrammellegepladsen, which translates as “junk playground”. Filmed in black and white, the film shows young boys and girls rushing through the gate of the playground to grab hammers, nails and saws.When the British children’s rights activist Marjory Allen visited the skrammellegeplad in in Emdrup, Denmark, in 1946, she thought it looked wonderful. “I was completely swept off my feet by my first visit to the Emdrup playground. In a flash of understanding I realised that I was looking at something quite new and full of possibilities.”Allen, who wrote for the Manchester Guardian, is now credited with introducing the concept of the “adventure playground” to Britain.The Playground Project runs at the Baltic from 15 July – 30 October 2016 and is free