Anticipation is already high for Peter Brook’s return to Britain next month with a new piece of theatre based on his canonical version of the Mahabharata. Brook, now 90, is regularly feted as the most influential director alive; his fleeting trips to the UK have taken on the aspect of a revered elder paying a visit to the waiting faithful.Peter Brook to rekindle the magic of the Mahabharata Yet alongside Brook’s name on the posters for Battlefield is another, not often noticed: that of Marie-Hélène Estienne. Trusted lieutenant, enforcer, co-writer, co-creator: however Estienne is described, she has been at Brook’s side for the last 40 years. For the past 20, he has barely made work without her. Yet she remains an enigma, and in hundreds of articles about Brook she barely merits a mention. Calling her unsung doesn’t quite do it: she might be the most famous theatremaker no one has ever heard of.We meet in Paris at the Bouffes du Nord, the former music hall hemmed in by sari shops and Turkish grocery stores a few streets from the Gare du Nord. When I enter the cramped conference room backstage, Estienne is waiting: hair in a sharp pixie crop, a clear, forthright gaze. She is charming and happy to talk, but there are many things to do today. As I fiddle with the recorder, she checks her watch.Battlefield is a reunion in more ways than one: the Mahabharata was one of the earliest shows Estienne was fully involved in creating. She looks amused as she recalls being dispatched to India in the early 80s, on a quixotic Brookian quest to see as many different dramatisations of the epic as possible. “Peter gave me this list of places to go. I saw so many different forms of it – absolutely amazing. Kathakali, men playing women, Theyyam from Kerala …” What was her job? “To observe. Then Peter would come and see, and we would discuss with the performers. It was very naive, really.”Anyone expecting a retread of the Mahabharata, which opened in the awe-inspiring setting of a limestone quarry outside Avignon (complete with artificial lake) in 1985, is in for a shock. Whereas the earlier incarnation attempted to encompass the sprawling span of the Sanskrit epic, replaying over 11 hours the multiplying dynastic rivalries and origin myths that make up one of the founding texts of Hinduism, Battlefield is a work of rapt, hushed minimalism.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jared McNeill, Ery Nzaramba and Carole Karemera in rehearsal for Battlefield. Photograph: PR ImageIt begins just after the tumultuous war scenes that occupy the central portion of the text, and offers a series of parable-like fragments focusing on the prince, Yudhishthira, whose forces have exterminated millions, including many of his own kin, and for whom victory – as Brook and Estienne describe it – “has the bitter taste of defeat”. Just four actors and a musician, Toshi Tsuchitori, are on stage. Though it has taken the best part of two years to create, the whole thing lasts not much longer than an hour. There is no artificial lake.“If it was just a revival, it wouldn’t mean anything. We made a film [for TV, in 1989] and that was enough,” she says crisply. “I don’t believe in doing the same thing; it would be less good, I think – rechauffée – cooked again, you know?”We meet weeks before the attacks on Paris, but the play’s sense of a world trying to make sense of catastrophic violence feels eerily topical; its quietness feels less like peace than the numbed silence that follows an explosion. “This is why we wanted to return. One can think of anything: Syria, [the attempted coups in] Burkina Faso. The Mahabharata thinks about so much of this.”If not quite on a par with the vexations of Yudhishthira, Estienne’s own life story is arresting. Born in 1944, she married the critic Charles Estienne, a major figure on the Parisian art scene, in 1960. He was 52, she was 16. Six years later, Charles died suddenly; grief-stricken and desperately in need of a job, Estienne was taken in by his former paper, the Nouvel Observateur. “They were very nice. I was on the culture desk; eventually they asked me to be a theatre critic.” One of the people she met was Brook, who had recently decamped to Paris to set up the multinational troupe that became known as the International Centre for Theatre Research. In 1974, he invited her to cast Shakespeare’s Timon of Athens. She laughs. “I said, ‘How do I do casting?’ I had no idea. But he realised I have a talent for it. I keep people inside my head; Peter forgets them.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peter Brook directing Mahabharata in the Bouffes du Nord, 1987. Photograph: Julio Donoso/Sygma/CorbisSoon afterwards, Brook, working with another close collaborator, the writer Jean-Claude Carrière, began to contemplate the idea of putting the Mahabharata on stage for western audiences. What followed was nearly a decade of intermittent travel, research, tentative workshops, yet more travel. “Toshi went for nearly two years to India, learned so many instruments. He spent a year in Chennai learning one – he could get no sound out of it for six months, nothing.” The only way the company could afford to underwrite such herculean artistic experimentalism was by touring a production of Bizet’s potboiler, Carmen. Estienne smiles wryly. “You do what you have to do.”Though many who experienced the Mahabharata professed themselves dazzled – a gushing New York Times spoke of “wonderment and awe” – those with connections to India itself were unimpressed. Some accused Brook and his team of naked neocolonialism by appropriating a sacred text with only the scantiest knowledge of its history and context; the Kolkata-based critic Rustom Bharucha called the spectacle “orientalist”, dismissing it as a “contrived and overblown fairytale”.Estienne shrugs. “Some people argued, but there were not many. It’s normal.” Did they listen to the criticisms? “For Peter, the bad review is the most interesting. He takes a good argument very seriously, and I learned to do the same.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marie-Helene Estienne and Peter Brook last year. Photograph: Bertrand Guay/AFP/Getty ImagesAll the while Estienne herself was observing and training – initially as a fixer and assistant, later as a valued collaborator. She worked as a dramaturg on Brook’s various expeditions into Hamlet in the late 1990s, and co-authored two shows, L’Homme Qui and Je Suis un Phénomène, as well as adapting texts such as Can Themba’s short story The Suit and translating Athol Fugard, John Kani and Winston Ntshona’s apartheid-era satire Sizwe Banzi is Dead. Their most recent projects have been billed as co-creations, with Brook and Estienne sharing directing and writing credits. I’m intrigued by how they work. She clasps her hands tightly together. “I can’t explain more than this. One is doing this, the other is doing that. I respect him hugely, of course, so I am not imposing anything. He is so clever, and has a gift for everything, the musicians, the actors. Often you are just helping. Sometimes a little more.”Still centre stage at 90: Peter Brook, human earthquake of modern theatre Do they ever disagree? There is a brisk pause. “Not much. Sometimes, and then it’s terrible for the people in front of us! We only disagree on little things – should this carpet be red or yellow, or the costumes.” She tosses her head. “Peter doesn’t even look at the costumes. It’s OK – he’s looking for something else.” Would she ever direct without him? This time the pause is longer. “Not for the moment. I can’t. We are too close.” Brook, she insists, is very much working: “The actors get very tired, but not him.” But one senses the subject is on everyone’s minds. Back in July, Brook’s wife, the actor Natasha Parry, died at the age of 84; her death has left a large absence in the tight-knit company. “All of us loved her, so we had a lot of sorrow – but we carry her with us, I hope.”We find ourselves talking about Battlefield again: how it dwells on renunciation and reconciliation, its quizzical approach to the question of what, if anything, lies beyond. Estienne’s voice is quiet but firm. “The Mahabharata is not afraid of death – it tells you to see it differently. That is what we try to give to people, that calmness.” For the first time since we began talking, she sits quite still. “It doesn’t mean you don’t have sorrow. But there is something higher.”• Battlefield is at the Young Vic, London, 3–27 February, then touring internationally.