In last week's blog piece "The public don't want to be involved in science policy" Hannah Baker used the recent Wellcome Trust Monitor Survey to argue that rather than involving the public in decisions around science, we need to be focusing on educating them. "Although this simple knowledge deficit model [which assumes that increasing knowledge about science will reduce scepticism] has now been largely discredited in the academic sphere, we should perhaps be wary of concluding that ignorance or misunderstanding of key areas of modern science doesn't matter," she says, going on to argue that involving the public in decisions around science and technology "is only possible if it is underpinned with a good base of science understanding, delivered through our education system".Very few of us in the "academic sphere" referred to would disagree that science education is important, nor argue that misunderstanding of science is not – you only have to look at the recent measles outbreak in South Wales to see the tragic consequences of such a misunderstanding. And this is only going to become more important as science and technology increasingly impacts on our lives. But Baker's argument ignores and confuses a number of important points.First, while a certain level of knowledge about science is going to be valuable in some situations – not least the example she gives of parliamentarians making decisions about medical research – this isn't the same as insisting that only those with a PhD or research experience in the relevant field are fit to make these decisions. It is ridiculous to suggest that MPs such as Caroline Spellman (who is fluent in four languages) or former Kennedy Scholar Ed Balls are unable to understand and engage with the scientific advice they are given because they have degrees in non-scientific subjects. Furthermore, there is also research (albeit in the social sciences) showing that people are "cognitive misers" and only seek information that they need. Ironically, involving people in decisions around science could be one way of creating that need.Secondly, the article confuses correlation and causation in its interpretation of the survey results and diagnosis for the future. Although the Wellcome Monitor Survey found that those who scored higher in the science general knowledge quiz tended to be more positive about science, it only finds a correlation. It doesn't tell us the causation. Suggesting that increasing people's knowledge of science will make them more positive about science is like arguing that fire engines must cause fires because they're often found at fires. An equally plausible explanation is that those who are positive about science seek out information about it and are therefore more knowledgeable. In fact, research elsewhere has shown that the picture is far more complicated than a simple positive relationship. While knowledgeable people might be more favourably disposed towards science in general, they can be less supportive of certain areas of science – especially morally contentious areas of research – such as genetic modification (GM).In making this mistake, the article misses a bigger and more significant finding in the survey: that those who were less knowledgeable about science were also less trusting in governmental institutions and less optimistic about future developments. Far from describing a group of people who are sceptical of science because they don't understand it, what the monitor has uncovered is a more serious condition: a group of people who are disengaged from many aspects of modern life – education, government, civil society and the benefits of science. The issue surely is more complex that simply low levels of scientific understanding?Finally, the article wrongly assumes that people base their opinion of science solely on technical aspects of the science. Although this might be true in some individuals and cases, it is by no means true in most instances. People understand that science sits within a complex web of policy, politics and finance. They also understand that it can be constrained by wider social factors such as ethics and morals and they judge it accordingly. Which is why it is always a mistake to try and reduce complicated and important science policy issues such as GM foods or fracking to ones which should only be discussed in relation to scientific evidence. Take the current debate around GM, referred to in the article as a task of "winning hearts and minds". While scientists often talk as if this is a referendum on every piece of science ever done and obsess about how to convince the public that the technology is safe, whenever the public is asked what they think, the message coming out loud and clear is that it is less an issue of safety but more one about the kind of world we want: Who owns the technology? Does it exploit farmers in developing countries by locking them in to buying new seeds each year? What are the benefits to the consumers? Would other technologies increase productivity more fairly and effectively? Andy Stirling explained the real issues on this blog a few days ago.Our own research on attitudes to Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology has made similar findings – that people question the potential unintended consequences of CCS and ask whether it locks us into the wrong energy future at the expense of other, renewable technologies. These aren't questions produced by ignorance, nor are they "anti-science" but they are reasonable issues to raise in the face of such far-reaching technologies.Ensuring that these issues are acknowledged and addressed is exactly why many academics in our field have made the case for increased public dialogue in science policy-making. And presumably why the monitor found that 71% of adults believed the public should, at least sometimes, be involved in decisions around medical research. Rather than arguing that the public shouldn't be involved, the more interesting question is why the survey found that 57% did not want to be personally involved in such decisions.We know from many years of public surveys on attitudes to science that the majority of the public value science and recognise its importance in shaping our modern world. What the sort of headline results highlighted in last week's article hide is the complex range of views, both supportive and critical, on individual areas of science and their place in society. It is not a contradiction to be supportive of genetic manipulation in a medical context and sceptical in an agricultural one, nor is it anti-science. It just shows that people are good at recognising the broader social context and consequences of science. Of course education is important, but it would be a mistake to believe that a better-educated public would give scientists a freer rein.