When most people go on holiday, they sightsee or relax. They work on their tan or search for souvenirs. Not me. I love to travel, and when on holiday recently, my thoughts have turned to murder and mayhem. The first book in the Chasing Danger series was inspired by my trip to the Maldives a few years ago. This beautiful and secluded location offered the perfect setting for action and adventure. I’m currently writing the second book in the series – Mystery at the Ice Hotel. While on holiday at an amazing winter wonderland, I was imagining snowmobile chases, ice daggers and dead bodies in blocks of ice.Creating any top 10 is difficult – especially when it comes to books. I could list so many more titles. But I’ve narrowed down a much longer list to only 10. These books offer settings ripe for adventure – and these stories definitely deliver. Robin Stevens's top 10 crime capers 1. First Class Murder: A Murder Most Unladylike Mystery by Robin StevensThis is the third book in Stevens’s lovely whodunit series. Young detectives Daisy Wells and Hazel Wong follow in the footsteps of Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot and must solve a mystery while on a three-day journey across Europe on the Orient Express.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Anthony Horowitz’s top five Alex Rider villains2. The Alex Rider series by Anthony HorowitzThe book covers proclaim: action, adrenaline and adventure. Although Stormbreaker, the first book in the series, starts closer to home, the rest of the books are a whirlwind of assassins and espionage from many thrilling locations, including the French Alps, Venice, Australia, Africa and Cairo.Louis Sachar: 'I make up the story as I go along, but a lot of it is really bad' 3. Holes by Louis Sachar“There is no lake at Camp Green Lake.” Not an enticing slogan for a travel brochure but a great opening line for one of my favourite books. I don’t recommend this sweltering Texas wasteland full of rattlesnakes, scorpions and yellow-spotted lizards as a holiday destination, but it’s an incredible backdrop for Sachar’s intricate plot puzzle that twists two stories together and manages to be funny, tense and heart-warming. 4. Rift by Beverley BirchAtmospheric. The perfect word to describe this thriller set in Africa. Three English schoolchildren, one local boy and a journalist vanish without a trace. Readers are immersed in the location but also engaged by a mystery that unfolds through newspaper articles, diary entries, letters, interview transcripts, and some good old-fashioned snooping. Katherine Rundell's top 10 descriptions of food in fiction 5. Rooftoppers by Katherine RundellOn Sophie’s first birthday, she’s found floating in a cello case in the English Channel. This beautifully written tale takes flight from the rooftops of Victorian Paris. This book offers a unique perspective on one of the top tourist destinations of all time. “Clocks below her began to strike four, and Paris was waking. Its sound was like the hum of a hundred secrets, she thought: it was the mutter of a dozen soothsaysers.”6. Hatchet by Gary PaulsenFrom city rooftops to the deepest Canadian wilderness. When 13-year-old Brian’s plane crashes, he’s the only survivor. This city boy must learn to thrive in the great outdoors with only his wits and trusty hatchet.Marcus Sedgwick: 'There is almost nothing you can't tackle in a teenage novel' 7. Revolver by Marcus SedgwickThe Arctic Circle in 1910 offers the perfect eerie setting for Sedgwick’s psychological thriller. Young Sig Andersson is alone with his father’s frozen corpse and a Colt revolver hidden in the storeroom. What a premise!Helen Moss: people must wonder why I'm staring at them and muttering under my breath 8. The Phoenix Code series by Helen MossThis new series combines exciting locations such as Egypt’s Valley of the Kings and an archaeological site in China with unbelievable action and adventure, including ancient murder mysteries, deadly secrets, treasure, fire-breathing dragons, and terracotta warriors. I can’t wait to see where Moss will take us next. 9. Going Bovine by Libba BrayI love this book because it’s absolutely bonkers. A kid with mad-cow disease, a punk angel, a dwarf and a yard gnome go on a madcap quest through a wacky America. The story begins and ends in the most magical place of all. Bray opens her story – and I dare you not to continue – with an opening line like this: “The best day of my life happened when I was five and almost died at Disney World.” 10. The Secret Garden by Frances Hodgson BurnettThis British classic is not an obvious choice to end a top 10 list about thrilling locations. The book is set at an old manor house in Yorkshire. For British readers, Yorkshire won’t be consider exotic or thrilling, but I grew up in a small town in the United States. I checked out and read my elementary school’s copy of The Secret Garden countless times. For this young reader, England was a magical far-away place with kings and queens and secret gardens. Wishing you many safe travels and exciting adventures!Sara Grant is the author of the new action-adventure series Chasing Danger. She has also written a YA novel, Dark Parties, and writes a funny magical series for young readers, titled Magic Trix. Find out more about Sara at www.sara-grant.com. Buy Chasing Danger at the Guardian bookshop. 