In five wordsSalty winds and warm friends.Sound of the cityThis is the sound of rain, and we get a lot of it because of our coastal climate. Halifax, Nova Scotia, is a blustery, wet place sometimes. The combination of strong winds and heavy showers are what make the sound of storms here so distinct. When the wooden frames of my windows are rattling, I know not to leave the house without rubber boots on.Best building      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Halifax Central Library is a focal point for the city. Photograph: Ashley CorbettThe Halifax Central Library, located downtown on the bustling Spring Garden Road, opened in 2014 and immediately became a focal point of the city. It attracts an eclectic group of people and functions as both a quiet study space and vibrant community hub. I vividly remember the first day that it opened: the place was packed with wide-eyed Halifax residents relishing in a collective triumph. The library was designed by local architecture company Fowler Bauld & Mitchell, who have also designed a number of environmentally friendly buildings in the city. The building’s modern style demonstrates the architectural shift that is currently underway in Halifax. Best local artistWith Taylor Made embroidery, feminism and needlework collide. Artist Anna Joan Taylor uses her craft to communicate radical messages about sexuality and culture. She demonstrates the voice of the powerful feminist and queer community here.Homegrown talentThe musician Willie Stratton mixes folky acoustics with alternative surf rock. He describes himself as “some wise guy from Halifax who plays banjo and guitar and stomps and yells and stuff”. Stratton is currently working on an upcoming album with a throwback country feel to it (yodelling is involved). You can see him live at venues such as The Company House or Gus’ Pub.The look on the streetI would definitely classify Halifax’s street style as both practical and casual. The weather here is pretty unpredictable – some winter days are strikingly humid, while others can be bone-chilling – so people often dress in layers. All-weather boots are essential: Blundstones (pictured on the left) are particularly popular; you can’t walk a block without seeing someone sporting them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   There’s no such thing as bad weather... Photograph: Ashley CorbettMoment in historyOn 6 December 1917, during the first world war, two ships – one loaded with munitions – collided in the harbour. This resulted in the largest manmade explosion in history, until the first atomic bombs. Nearly 2,000 people died. Another 9,000 were wounded. Thousands of buildings were damaged beyond repair. The city was devastated, especially the North End. Today, the historic Hydrostone District marks the ruins – a neighbourhood built to house families who were left without a home as a result of the explosion. The buildings remain well preserved, with one street operating as a market.How green is your city? Make sure to smile at strangers on the street. That is just the way it is around here Halifax is fairly sustainable, especially when it comes to our trash. Last year the municipality made clear bags mandatory, to ensure citizens were composting organic matter and sorting their recycling properly.However, as a functioning port city, the water is polluted, so I’d suggest travelling outside of the urban areas if you’re hoping to take a dip in the ocean.Most underrated locationThe Northwest Arm is an inlet that defines the western part of the Halifax peninsula. The arm is a less populated alternative to the city’s touristy waterfront – it’s beautifully calm and has a great walking trail along the shoreline. I come here alone when I have had a particularly stressful day and need to unwind. It’s a perfect date location, too.Best cultural InstagramHollie Uffindell illustrates her life in Halifax through an elegant and polished lens. She takes pride in avidly exploring her city, and capturing the beauty of her adventures. Thanks to her eye for detail, Halifax’s personality shines brightly.Biggest controversyIn December 2015, the province of Nova Scotia implemented a price for urban risk-takers: people can now be fined a whopping $697.50 for jaywalking. The law ignited a fiery debate, pitting cars against people. Some blame the government, calling the fine outlandish; others believe the fines will make things safer. And still others suggest that these issues could be solved with better city planning. The worst building      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Maritime Centre. Photograph: Ashley CorbettThe concrete Maritime Centre – completed in 1977 and home to telecoms company Bell Aliant – sticks out. One of the tallest office buildings in the city, it characterises much of Halifax’s unappealing architecture, and is known for creating strong wind tunnels on downtown Barrington Street.What does your city do better than any other?Halifax has all the perks of a city, but is as relaxed as a small town, full of hospitality and friendliness. Make sure to smile at strangers on the street, and say sorry even if the person bumped into you. That is just the way it is around here, folks.Top insider’s tipCross the harbour to visit Two If By Sea Café in Dartmouth. This humble spot may slip past tourists’ radar due to its location, but locals know it is worth the trek. Simply hop on the Dartmouth ferry from Halifax’s harbour, enjoy the ride, and prepare your mouth for something deliciously buttery.Five to followHalifolksHalifax NoiseGeeks Versus NerdsMel Had TeaHanna SearsFrom me      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ashley Corbett shows us around her city. Photograph: Martha KerrAshley Corbett is finishing up her journalism degree in Halifax. She has a lot of cavities but eats candy anyway. You’ll find her on the seashore and can follow her on Twitter here.Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion