 I was coming around to the belief that whether you like it or not, things happen and once they start happening you pretty much just have to hold on for dear life and see where they drop you when they stop. – How I Live Now If there was ever a more perfect day in the history of time it wasn’t one I’ve heard about. – How I Live NowMeg Rosoff wins £430,000 Astrid Lindgren memorial award  And after a while this, my brain and my body and every single inch of me that was alive was flooded with the feeling that I was starving, starving for Edmond. And what a coincidence, that was the feeling I loved best in the world. – How I Live Now I was dying of course, but then, we all are. Every day, in perfect increments, I was dying of loss. – How I Live Now I know that he will never silence those unspeakable voices. He heard how people killed, and how they died and their voices infected him, coursed through his body, poisoned him. He didn’t know how to turn off the noise, or turn the hate back out onto the world like the rest of us. – How I Live Now I felt a momentary urge to leap into the sea and swim free of the present. – What I WasThe greatest Frances Hardinge quotes ever  You will awake someday to find that your life has rushed by at a speed at once impossible and cruel. The most intense moments will seem to have occurred only yesterday and nothing will have erased the pain and pleasure, the impossible intensity of love and its dog-leaping happiness, the bleak blackness of passions unrequited, or unexpressed, or unresolved – What I Was  Perhaps the way to succeed is to think of life on Earth as a colossal joke, a creation of such immense stupidity that the only way to live is to laugh until you think your heart will break. – There is No Dog  So much relies on one person assuming the other is telling the truth. If a person can lie to you about one thing, he can lie about something else – Picture me Gone  I will not always be happy, but perhaps, if I’m lucky, I will be spared the agony of adding pain to the world. – Picture me GoneMeg Rosoff: Do not be afraid to be afraid – the Philippa Pearce memorial lecture   Feelings are like three-year-olds. They’re not rational. They’re just there. – Picture me Gone  The open road. What a trio of words. What a vision of blue sky and untouched hills and narrow trails heading God knew where and being free – free and hungry, free and cold, free and wet, free and lost. Who could mourn such conditions, faced with the alternative? – Bride’s Farewell  There he lay spooked, a spinning wheel in a celestial bowling alley. – Just in Case Oh my God, that’s amazing. I have to sit down – I can’t believe that. (after being informed of her win in a phone call today)What are your favourite Meg Rosoff quotes? Tell us on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by email to childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add them to this list.