Whoever it was that said writing about music is like dancing about architecture is not among the authors – half of whom are better known as musicians – shortlisted for this year’s Penderyn prize honouring the best books about popular music.Elvis Costello invoked the line in a bad-tempered music press interview in 1983 (“Framing all the great music out there only drags down its immediacy”, he told the unfortunate reporter.) But he has clearly had a change of heart, having spent seven years preparing a massive autobiography. His Unfaithful Music and Disappearing Ink is the first title on the list and is considered a strong contender.The other two shortlisted musician-writers are Patti Smith and Tracey Thorn. Smith follows up her well-received memoir, Just Kids, with another, M Train, which balances some endearing revelations about her eccentric habits with a heartfelt eulogy for her late husband, Fred “Sonic” Smith. Thorn’s Naked at the Albert Hall: The Inside Story of Singing is a personal study of the physical and psychological demands of her vocation.Three veteran music journalists complete the list with books of grander ambition. Peter Doggett takes on the whole shebang with Electric Shock: From the Gramophone to the iPhone, which aims to account for “125 Years of Pop Music” – and should surely win if points are awarded for ambition alone. (Interestingly, it takes Doggett only 30 pages more than Costello to complete his giant account.)Jon Savage and Stuart Cosgrove have similar-sounding projects: Savage with 1966: The Year the Decade Exploded and Cosgrove with Detroit 67: The Year That Changed Soul. Both set their musical subjects in a social context, but Cosgrove’s is a much tougher tale, of the failing civil rights struggle, Vietnam and the bleak fortunes of Motor City. It does however show how these circumstances gave birth to a fresh, tougher-minded black pop music.So there have been a lot of impressive shapes being thrown around the block this year. Who has won the No 1 slot will be announced on 3 April.