If La La Land is named best picture at the Oscars tomorrow, it will be the third time in a row a film based on an original screenplay – not a book – has taken the supreme award. And whichever nominee gets the nod, it won’t be a novel adaptation, because there are none on the shortlist – Fences and Moonlight are derived from plays, Arrival from a short story and Hidden Figures and Lion from non-fiction, while Hacksaw Ridge, Hell or High Water and Manchester by the Sea are also original scripts. Tellingly, it’s now a decade since the last time a US novel (Cormac McCarthy’s No Country for Old Men) became a best picture-winning movie.Fifty years ago, books and films enjoyed a happy marriage, basking in the mutual advantages of a relationship reminiscent of Katharine Hepburn’s celebrated apercu on Astaire and Rogers, “he gives her class and she gives him sex appeal”: between 1962 and 1969, every best picture winner had a literary source including works by Fielding (Tom Jones), Dickens (Oliver!) and Shaw (My Fair Lady). Even as recently as the early noughties, four consecutive winners – A Beautiful Mind, Chicago, The Lord of the Rings, Million Dollar Baby – were either directly or ultimately text-based. Now, though, the couple have parted, not yet divorced but on frosty terms.Cinema and literature’s current froideur can be seen as a liberation for film, in which the younger medium belatedly leaves home and stops having to mimic and appease its stuffy parents, theatre and the novel. It presents new freedoms for literature, too, as there is no need any longer to follow Tinseltown’s tawdry formulas, to pander to the lowest common denominator in the hope of getting a movie or TV deal. Yet there are also drawbacks: in a rarefied, segregated literary monoculture, authors have minimal chance of gaining a mass audience, venture into few if any other genres, and have not had Hollywood’s key diktats on the importance of storytelling, structure, dialogue and concision drummed into them.Such is the degree of estrangement that Hollywood has taken to snubbing home-grown leading lights in genre fiction, where US ascendancy is uncontested, as well as literary award winners. Little interest is now shown in filming the work of chart-topping American crime writers such as David Baldacci, Harlan Coben, Michael Connelly, Patricia Cornwell, Jeffery Deaver and James Patterson, with film-makers looking overseas instead. Whereas Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon have just optioned Truly Madly Guilty by Australia’s Liane Moriarty, a franchise based on British writer Lee Child’s Jack Reacher thrillers is up and running, and (on the back of the commercial success of the The Girl on the Train adaptation) DreamWorks acquired the second novel by another Brit, Paula Hawkins, last week, two months before it is due to be published.