While the ballroom-dance sorority has long understood the power of a sequin, it took fashion a while longer to see the potential of these plastic circles of disco joy. But now they are everywhere, from the statement piece (see the supersized sequin on a Prada 1960s inspired dress this season) through to daywear. One high-street store advertises a dress on the basis that it contains thousands of sequins. Less isn't more. More is more.While there seems to be a surfeit of "eco buttons", I've still to find an eco sequin. They are relentlessly plastic. The question is: how did they get there? While couture tends to make a virtue of the hours of handiwork put into a garment (a piece will be praised, for example, for requiring 1,200 hours under the needle of highly skilled couturiers) the high street tends to mask it. Though there are automated machines for such work (mainly used for applying more robust rhinestones), the pace and price dictated by the high street requires human labour. Those plastic discs crinkle easily. Nimble fingers are the order of the day.Enter an army of homeworkers or piece workers thought to number 30-50 million. This predominantly female force is also one of the world's most easily exploited workforces; and the convenience of being at home is undermined by the challenges of poverty – it is hard to keep garments clean when working in the corner of a slum dwelling. The pace of work is akin to that in the factories in the global supply chain where workers struggle to keep up with demand. To keep homeworkers on track tyrannical middle men underpay and, according to research, resort to violence and aggression to get orders fulfilled.Until recently the world turned a blind eye to this informal sector of the fashion chain. Then along came Sewa (the Self-Employed Women's Association), which raised the alarm on behalf of Indian homeworkers. Next it set up facilities to train and bargain on behalf of 11,000 grassroots' producer groups, 200 co-operatives and 11 federations in seven states of India. More recently Sewa has been procuring orders for its members from big-name retailers where 65% of the purchase price goes back to the homeworker.Naked, a book from People Tree, makes clear the need and potential for handiwork and artisanal production in fashion. A skill such as embroidery should and could lift a woman out of poverty. Maddeningly, many retailers are reluctant to say which products are made with Sewa for fear that it casts aspersions on the provenance of the products which aren't. I think we should keep asking.