ExhibitionsWilliam EgglestonEven if you aren’t able to name one of US snapper William Eggleston’s works, you will almost certainly recognise their defining characteristic: that almost absurd sunburst of colour saturation, which adds a lingering mystery to otherwise routine scenes. This major National Portrait Gallery survey profiles 100 photographs from the 1960s onwards, charting his progression from distrusted outsider to celebrated artist.TheatreHug    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Being sung at while blindfolded, by a stranger who also has their arms wrapped around you might sound like a truly hellish ordeal, but Verity Standen’s polyphonic work has had the opposite effect on many. Indeed, some have been reduced to tears by this immersive experience.FilmGhostbusters   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Who you gonna call to drag a franchise kicking and screaming into the modern age? Well, Paul Feig, Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy would probably be a decent start. The good news is that this all-female remake has received largely positive notices and, to be honest, even if it hadn’t, we’d still advocate seeing it just to stick it to the trolls. Secret Cinema: Dirty DancingYou’ll forgive the clandestine screenings company for dropping its usual secretive shtick to revisit one of its earlier events: the 2013 staging of Dirty Dancing proved immensely popular, luring in more than 12,000 people to a recreated version of the Catskills. This revival should ensure that nobody puts Baby in a corner. TVFriday Night DinnerRobert Popper’s sitcom returns, and we rejoin the gratifyingly idiosyncratic Goodman family as they prepare for a guest diner. The unfolding events are, as ever, a farce masterclass. OnlineBoJack Horseman      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Will Arnett voices a talking Hollywood horse in an animated series that manages to find something interesting to say about fame and failure alongside the equine-themed gags. Series three is on Netflix from Friday.The ArtsEdinburgh jazz and blues festivalWe’re getting close to the point when the entire comedy cognoscenti decamps to Edinburgh for the fringe. Before then, though, there’s time for proponents of jazz, blues and funk to have their moment in the spotlight. This year features a festival debut from storytelling songwriter Doug MacLeod (pictured)and 19-piece Slovakians the Bratislava Hot Serenaders.ComedyReggie Watts      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Perhaps most famous in the context of US TV, musician and comedian Reggie Watts is currently bandleader and banter partner on The Late Late Show With James Corden. But if that makes him sound like a mainstream proposition, this fleeting UK visit should provide plenty of evidence to the contrary. The self-proclaimed “disinformationist” (if only all post-truth practitioners were doing it for comic effect) brings his loop pedal and erudite, leftfield standup to gigs at both Latitude in Suffolk and London’s Southbank Centre on Saturday.EventsAn Afternoon With Susan CainProviding a voice for those who can’t speak up, Cain achieved success with her 2013 book Quiet: The Power Of Introverts In A World That Can’t Stop Talking. She’s since given a much-shared TED talk and founded Quiet Revolution, an organisation seeking “to unlock the power of introverts for the benefit of us all”. She talks about her followup book and gives advice at Waterstones Oxford. MusicLCD Soundsystem      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Murphy of LCD Soundsystem performs in Roskilde, Denmark. Photograph: Andrew Benge/RedfernsDon’t be angry at NYC’s finest punk-funkers for announcing their split, doing a farewell tour and flogging an emotional doc off the back of it, only to re-form four years later. Murf and co’s return has been one of 2016’s festival highlights and their Lovebox date is their only remaining UK stop. Shut up and play the hits, indeed.