A pack of drones whizzed across Governor’s Island against the backdrop of the Manhattan skyline. About the size of a plate, they whipped through the track of the second annual National Drone Racing Championship, piloted by racers in goggles standing a few yards away.Friday was a practice day at the drone race, a sport that’s still in its infancy. But this weekend’s event is its big moment. For the first time in drone racing’s short existence, the competition will be broadcast on ESPN.“We’re all really excited to have something to crown the industry and show what this is all about,” said competitor Zoe Stumbaugh, who began drone racing about two years ago.But the cameras also add a degree of pressure. “Is it going to be a huge sport that explodes or is something else going to happen to it?” Ken Loo, Stumbaugh’s team-mate on team AirVuz, said. “This is the first televised event where a big network is picking up the coverage, so it’s gotta go well.”The national championships, hosted by the Drone Sports Association and sponsored by GoPro, will be broadcast live on ESPN3, the network’s online channel, and as a package on one of its cable channels. The event can also be watched live for free.Stumbaugh, Loo and about 100 mostly male fellow competitors, known as pilots, arrived with multiple X-shaped quadcopters dangling off their backpacks or carrying winged, plane-like drones for the event. Participants of all ages came from around the country toting their gear. Sorell Miller, 12, and his father, Conrad, 37, came from Boise, Idaho, for the event. The pair recently joined the same team as Stumbaugh and Loo and have a bit of a rivalry. “I’m always trying to beat him,” Miller said of his father. He beat his father in his first race in Oregon last week, the pair said.Pilots can participate in four events – an individual race, team relay, freestyle and flying wing. The actual competition takes place on Saturday and Sunday, while Friday was spent checking equipment and setting up video feeds.Practice commenced late on Friday afternoon. Racers stood under a tent in the center of the track wearing first-person view (FPV) goggles that enabled them to see out of the cameras on their drones. Controllers in hand, they sped their small drones through large hooped obstacles. The drones raced for about three minutes – as long as their batteries allowed – with a 60mph speed limit. Crashes are infrequent but painful – Loo said “it’s like his baby going down”. Other pilots followed along through their own goggles or on sometimes-shaky video screens.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Racers wear first-person goggles to let them see out of their drones’ camera. Photograph: Nicole Puglise for the GuardianDrone Sports Association chairman Scot Refsland walked through the course with pilots beforehand, explaining its U-shape and vertical as well as horizontal obstacles. Weather will be another obstacle – as wind whipped through the track, knocking down a hoop. Rain is expected for the weekend, but an event official said they built time into the schedule to wait for bad weather to pass.Refsland emphasized that the race wants to be “spectator friendly” – a challenge for the small, fast-moving sport – and that they’ll bring the action as close to the live audience as possible. To the side of the track was a VIP tent and some bleachers to watch. The first national drone racing championship at the California state fair last year had only a handful of spectators, according to Quartz. But Stumbaugh said she thought a crowd would show up for the races this weekend, since the event was promoted more. “It’s an amazingly huge event with the best pilots in the US,” she said.As a mark of the sport’s increasing popularity, the Drone Sports Association is one of multiple leagues that have formed around the sport. The Drone Racing League, by contrast, doesn’t aim to have spectators, but rather compiles a video package of its races.Last year’s competition in Dubai was particularly high stakes, with a prize of $1m. This event winner will go on to compete in an international tournament staged by the Drone Sports Association in Hawaii later this year.Loo and Stumbaugh are two of the many racers with a moderate social media presence, as YouTube and Instagram have become even more important to its livelihood. Loo said he never used social media until he built his first drone in 2014. He said he uses the platforms for promoting sponsors and getting the word out about drone racing. “I want this to become an everybody hobby,” Stumbaugh said. She praised the sport’s accessibility for all types. She built her first drone after being bedridden due to a medical condition and said flying a drone was “the most enabling thing” she had ever done. “It was an instant turnaround from being depressed, stuck in bed, to I can fly free,” Stumbaugh said.“This is the only sport where its a really even playing field. If you have thumbs and eyeballs, you can fly a drone,” she added.