Heath Row. It suggests open land and neat cottages in a line, rather than the busiest airport in the world.I think of Heathrow every Sunday, when the planes approach on a slope that seems to take a sharp right just above the Hackney Marshes where I live. Yesterday, I made my way there myself – at ground level – to go on a walk with the artist Kate Corder, who has lined up a series of apple- and orchard-related visits in the area, this time from the threatened village of Sipson to the Sheraton hotel at Heathrow airport.To start with, we entered the strange, dreamlike world of Transition Heathrow, which has grown out of the Climate Camp that took place here in 2007. The site is huge and as we walk around I think of Christiania – the self-built neighbourhood in Copenhagen – and the similarities with how Christiania began decades ago. Houses appear between the wilderness of fully overgrown greenhouses on an abandoned market garden. The spirit of resistance and belief in alternatives is as refreshing as the green jungle and fresh spring air of the place. I understand that showers are only allowed on days when the smoke from the compression wood burner doesn't annoy the neighbours.We left through the locked front gate and walked through Sipson. Loud cheery shouting poured out of the local pub. At the back of the pub's car park, we try to get a glimpse of the famous Airplot from 2012, a piece of land bought by Greenpeace in order to replant an orchard in the way of the proposed third runway, and in the middle of the village.The fence is too high to see much. There is no entrance either, but the trees have been removed. Where have they gone to, and why have those "Airplotters" who gave money towards the purchase of the land never been told that the orchard built for the future had been dissolved?  Photograph: Kathrin BöhmThe road from Sipson to Harmondsworth is just over a mile long, and strangely straight and freshly tarred. We are on the site for Runway Three. Even though plans are stopped for now, it is not difficult to imagine that they could be revived. It looks like a perfect landing ground.Yesterday, it was all quiet. You can't hear the airport, only the humming of the M25. We stand in the middle of the road and Jo Thomas reads out the list of apple trees planted to support the Airplot.Small cottages with big cars in the front are neatly rowed up as we enter Harmondsworth. It is extraordinary to see a village here, of all places, with a large working farm in the middle. Our objective is Ann and Richard Cox's grave in the churchyard. Richard Cox was a retired brewer who moved to Colnbrook in 1830 and crossed a Ribston Pippin with a Blenheim Orange to develop the famous Cox's Orange Pippin, the most popular apple in the UK.We wonder if the trees along the path are Cox's Orange Pippin but will have to come back in autumn to find out.It was a day of drifting in and out of different scales and extremes. Heathrow proves that it is possible for society to give up on vast amounts of arable land in order to build a global mobility hub; the walk proves how it might be possible for us to do things differently. Because, there was a place called Heathrow and not just an airport. To break the dominance of one image, we have to see the diversity that is there.  Photograph: Kathrin BöhmThe walk from the grave to the Sheraton is only 10 minutes. We are passing agricultural land with the airport control tower always on the horizon. The roads get busier again and we soon enter the cinnamon-scented lobby of the hotel. Kate takes us straight to the inner yard, a surprisingly big and well tended enclosed garden, with a small, newly planted apple orchard on one side. It was apparently planted by the former hotel manager who knew that the land around here was once orchards. It is perfect growing ground. There are three rows of three trees and a small bench in the middle, but will anyone who looks out of their hotel room notice?  Photograph: Kathrin BöhmFresh apples for waiting guests are lined up on massive shelves in the lounge. Do any of them understand the significance that apples have for this strange landscape, part concrete, part rural?