Versailles 9pm, BBC2The king is causing controversy as usual, but he is reluctant to give up the ooh-la-la with married mistress Madame de Montespan. With love potions doing the rounds, the bare bottom count is high and the moral standards are as low as the royal pants. Father Pascal is unimpressed with all the saucy goings-on and when Philippe meets his lively new bride, Chevalier is quick to pass judgment on his love rival. The almost-as-scandalous Inside Versailles follows. Hannah VerdierLethal Weapon 9pm, ITVIt is Christmas in Los Angeles, but celebrations are put on hold while Riggs and Murtaugh investigate the murder of a nurse, thrown from the 13th floor of a swish apartment block. After it transpires she’s the girlfriend of a young cartel kingpin that Riggs is familiar with from his days in Texas, the case finds its cocky suspect, one who knows just how to push Riggs’s buttons, especially during the festive period when memories of his late wife are at their rawest. Ben ArnoldBrian Johnson’s a Life on the Road 9pm, Sky ArtsIn the first of a new series exploring life on the road, the former AC/DC frontman sets off for Shepherd’s Bush to meet one of the area’s famous sons: the Who’s Roger Daltrey. Their walk takes them from Rog’s old childhood house to Bush Hall, where the band once rehearsed, while conversation touches on groupies, obliterated hotel rooms and the sort of onstage noise levels that could cause tinnitus in statues. Ali CatterallHospital People 9.30pm, BBC1Episode two of Tom Binns’s hospital comedy and DJ Ivan Brackenbury causes panic by dressing up as the Lone Ranger for charity. Enter Sian Gibson of Car Share fame as Hilary, head of hospital security, who’s charged with implementing a security clampdown. A mockumentary where the plotting drifts but sharp dialogue abounds. Self-regarding manager Susan Mitchell ponders the beds crisis: “Can you look into the feasibility of bunk beds? Just seems so obvious – and fun.” Jonathan WrightSarah Millican: Outsider 10pm, Channel 4A show themed around moving to the countryside is an established way for standups to find new observations without losing their style. So it is for the north-eastern comic, whose skilfully honed shtick – an innocent, bewildered, vulnerable exterior easily giving way to sharp slapdowns and pure, shameless filth – is given fresh life by reports on the struggle to deal with a new house, new neighbours and closer proximity to nature. Jack SealePosh Pawn 8pm, Channel 4More tales from the Premier League of pawnbrokers, where you’re more likely to find Hermès handbags and filigree than Hungry Hippos and Fifa 09. James imbibes at an implausibly extensive fire engine bar, while memorabilia expert Lawrence is offered a collection of celebrity signatures worth a five-figure sum. A former model brings along some designer bags in the hope that their resale price will offset the upcoming renovations of her house – and her body. Mark Gibbings-JonesStan Lee’s Lucky Man 9pm, Sky1 This James Nesbitt drama did some pretty impressive business in its first season, what with its blend of Sherlock and Luther – albeit without the humour of either. Diminishing returns have been its lot in the second season, but it stands to reason that this finale is still a cliffhangery old place to hang out. With his brother Rich fallen into the hands of Isabella, Harry faces a dilemma: enjoy the family time he’s earned, or pick up the bracelet and fight her? John RobinsonFilm choiceX-Men: Apocalypse (Bryan Singer, 2016) 11.35am, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereMoving swiftly on from the wacky X-Men: Days of Future Past, we’re in the Reaganite 80s. Famke Janssen has been dropped for a new-look Jean Grey (Sophie Turner), but James McAvoy’s Prof Xavier and Michael Fassbender’s Magneto are still on hand with the ever-growing X-gang. It’s just as well, as the ancient Egyptian uber-mutant En Sabah Nur (Oscar Isaac) is out to conquer the world. Paul HowlettAttack the Block (Joe Cornish, 2011) 12.10am, Channel 4Extra-terrestrials might be scary in outer space, but they aren’t so tough when they face a gang of south London council estate hoodies: that’s the premise of Joe Cornish’s fast, funny and socially perceptive sci-fi. A pre-Star Wars John Boyega gains alien-fighting experience as gang leader Moses, with Jodie Whittaker as the nurse who aids the boys. Paul HowlettLive sportOne Day Cup Cricket: Somerset v Worcestershire Fifty-overs-a-side cricket from the County Ground in Taunton. 10.55am, Sky Sports 2Cycling: Tour de Yorkshire Day one of the three-day race keeps near the coast in its 173km from Bridlington to Scarborough. 12.30pm, ITV4Premiership Rugby: Harlequins v Wasps Coverage of the match from The Stoop. 7pm, BT Sport 1