Whisky bottles are flying. Bourbons go one way; single malts the other. As actor Sandy Grierson sorts the scotch from the rye, he’s backed by a blast of raggedy folk music – an American sound with deep Scottish roots. Director Rachel Chavkin looks on, all-American in denim and cowboy boots. Her tangy New York accent jars with Grierson’s soft Edinburgh burr.If you think Scotland and America are chalk and cheeseburger, the TEAM are out to persuade you otherwise. The show they are rehearsing is a collaboration with the National Theatre of Scotland, Anything That Gives Off Light, which aims to draw a direct line from the ideas of the Scottish Enlightenment to the ones on which America was founded.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sorting the scotch from the rye … Sandy Grierson in rehearsals. Photograph: Manuel HarlanThe TEAM have their own Scottish roots. They formed to take a show to the Edinburgh fringe a decade ago, and came away with a Fringe First award. Now they’re making their debut in the Edinburgh international festival – a big step up for a small collective. It’s their first show set outside the US, the nation they’ve raked over in every one of their works; scratching its psyche and its politics, its myths and its history.By the time of the American revolution, about 400,000 Scots had crossed the Atlantic. They brought with them the thinking of a flourishing nation: the empiricist philosophy of David Hume and the economic individualism of Adam Smith. “We look to Scotland for all our ideas of civilization,” wrote Voltaire. The Founding Fathers concurred.From there, the two nations diverged. Chavkin likens the overlap to tectonic drift; the way two continents can share flora and fauna. Ideas, like animals, evolve to fit their environment. “Plants grow until there’s no space,” she says. “In America, there’s just so much fucking space.” What seemed sensible in Smith’s thinking expanded instead into toxic capitalism, runaway individualism.Nearly five years in the making, Anything That Gives Off Light was originally due to coincide with the Scottish Independence referendum of 2014 – a time, says co-director Davey Anderson, when “what it meant to be Scottish was up for grabs.” Two years on, the same is true in the US. “This summer, more than any I can remember, it feels like the very heart of American identity is a football being wrestled over.”The piece’s creative process has shown the differences between how nations are seen from the outside compared with how they’re seen from within. America the “big, dominant world power” is no more a lived experience than the thistle and tartan Scotland you find on shortbread tins. That stems, Chavkin says, from the novelist Walter Scott: “This co-opted, appropriated image of Scotland based in Highland culture has crystallised.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rehearsals get underway for Anything That Gives Off Light. Photograph: Manuel Harlan“These two great forces of rationalism and romanticism were rubbing up against each other in the 1800s,” says Chavkin, and that begged a pertinent question, applicable to both nations: “Are we backwards-looking or forwards-looking?”Anything That Gives Off Light distils that question into its central story. Brian Ferguson plays a Glaswegian émigré living in London, who is returning his grandmother’s ashes to her Highlands home. En route, he picks up an old schoolfriend (Grierson) and an American divorcee (Jessica Almasy), turning his personal pilgrimage into a kind of road trip of cultural exchange.A lot of TEAM shows have plots that hit the road. RoosevElvis sped from Mount Rushmore to Memphis; Architecting, from New Orleans to Arkansas. Their musical Mission Drift chased the frontier of capitalism from east to west. It’s their way of carving through a country, and bringing a sense of the land itself on to the stage. Ideas don’t exist in isolation, after all. They’re forged in time and space, products of history and geography.The form mirrors the company’s process: TEAM members take these trips themselves, to get a true sense of their subject. This time, they abandoned a planned Highlands tour for the Appalachian mountains, travelling from Virginia to Kentucky. It was there that many of those first Scots settled, and both states still host annual Highland Games.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rachel Chavkin talks about Anything That Gives Off Light“The landscape’s really similar,” says Ferguson. “A very dry version of Scotland: very hilly with lots and lots of forests.” On the trip, they met families with long ancestral ties to Scotland; farmers and teachers, miners and Republicans. That meant debates about government and gun control – quite shocking to the Scots. “The moment you meet someone, ideas stop being abstract,” says Ferguson. “You go, ‘Wow, OK. You’ve actually got a point there’.”Theoretically, that will bear fruit in the show, grounding characters in real people rather than assumptions, pushing them past proxies. Given how the TEAM’s style is steeped in ideas, history and literary allusions, Chavkin says the company go through a lot of “bad versions where the characters are basically walking metaphors”. It takes a long time to iron them out. They read a lot of books between them, letting the research soak into the show like a whisky that tastes of its cask. “This process isn’t for everyone,” she warns.This time it too started with stereotypes – around a pub table – and a running joke imagining Scottish remakes of US films. “Most of our great movies are about underdogs overcoming the odds,” Chavkin points out. Scots rarely end riding off into the sunset. “What’s really shown up is the Scottish miserabilism,” notes Ferguson. “We’re experts in failure, snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. We almost take joy in it.”America, however, was a self-starting society; small groups of settlers surviving for themselves, arriving with nothing and building from scratch. It needs optimism and it needs independence. “When you can’t see your neighbour, you can feel very alone,” says Chavkin, “but the end point of individualism is isolation and loneliness.”Anything That Gives Off Light runs at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre from 16-26 August 