The Stonehenge tunnel scheme has suffered a setback after three influential heritage organisations closely involved in the ancient site and the surrounding landscape raised concerns over a crucial aspect of the government’s preferred route.Historic England, English Heritage and the National Trust all said they backed the idea of a tunnel for the busy A303, which would remove the sight and sound of thousands of vehicles thundering close to the stone circle. However, all three are worried that the proposed western portal – the tunnel entrance and exit – is too close to the Normanton Down Barrows, an important collection of tombs considered one of the gems of the wider Stonehenge landscape. The proposed tunnel route.In their first response to the tunnel scheme, the three bodies said on Wednesday: “The government’s current proposals for the tunnel’s western portal are a cause for concern and need significant improvement. “This is due to the portal’s current proximity to the Normanton Down barrow group, an important group of neolithic and early bronze age ceremonial and funerary monuments.” Officials from the three organisations are meeting Highways England on Wednesday to discuss their concerns. Their views are significant because each has a key role at Stonehenge – English Heritage manages it, the National Trust owns much of the landscape, while Historic England is the government adviser on the historic environment and has a statutory role to advise on the heritage aspects of the tunnel.In January the government announced that its preferred scheme was a 1.8 mile tunnel for the A303 located slightly south of the current course of the road and so a little further away from the monument.This route means that at the eastern end the road would dive underground before a feature called the Avenue, believed to be a ceremonial approach to Stonehenge from the river Avon. This would allow visitors and pilgrims, for the first time in decades, to safely follow the route their forebears took. English Heritage, the National Trust and Historic England acknowledged the scheme would remove the sight of the A303 from the landscape and would open more of it up to the public. They said: “The proposed A303 tunnel would remove the majority of the existing damaging road and its traffic from the world heritage site, finally reuniting the north and south sides of this extraordinary ancient landscape and allowing people to enjoy and understand it better. “It would also allow for the reinstatement of the line of the Stonehenge Avenue, an ancient processional route to the stones. This is the first time that a government scheme to improve the A303 within the Stonehenge landscape has recognised the importance of the avenue.” But Normanton Down Barrows could be a problem. The group was described by the 18th and 19th century archaeologist Sir Richard Colt Hoare as a “noble group – diversified in their forms, perfect in their symmetry and rich in their contents”. Under the current scheme the western portal will be built just 100 metres from them. Duncan Wilson, the chief executive of Historic England, emphasised that the tunnel plan was largely welcomed, saying: “The proposed A303 tunnel offers the best opportunity to resolve the traffic problems at Stonehenge and to reverse the environmental damage the present road causes. The proposals could offer enormous gains, by reuniting this extraordinary landscape.” Of Normanton Down, he said the concern was not that tunnelling would harm the actual barrows but affect their setting. “We are suggesting that Highways England might consider ways of mitigating the impact, for example, bridging over the cutting at the entrance to the portal and landscaping it so that the visual impact was less significant.” The three heritage organisations do not say that the Normanton Down issue means the project must be halted but say their concerns could be resolved with “careful and sensitive revision” to the positioning and design of the western portal.Kate Mavor, the chief executive of English Heritage, said: “This proposal is a big step in the right direction … We do have concerns about particular aspects of the proposals.”Helen Ghosh, the director general of the National Trust, added: “We are encouraged by the proposals put forward by Highways England for consultation but it is very clear that there’s still more to do.”The public consultation on the scheme was launched on 12 January and runs until 5 March. A series of information events are being held for people to give their feedback.There will be another round of consultation later in 2017 on Highways England’s more detailed proposed solution before it submits its development consent order application – a type of planning application needed for nationally significant infrastructure projects – in 2018.A Highways England spokesperson said: “We are working closely with key organisations within the world heritage site, and we will continue to find the best solution possible to improve journeys for drivers while also protecting Stonehenge.“The consultation on plans to relieve congestion on the A303 is currently ongoing and feedback we receive from everyone is really important in helping us to refine our proposed option.” The importance of the landscape to the south of the A303 has been highlighted by new discoveries reported in Wednesday’s British Archaeology magazine. Among the new finds is a grave of a man who might have seen the earliest megaliths raised at the site. Also recovered were 14,000 pieces of worked flint and pieces of at least 52 pots. 