TV Raised By Wolves(Wednesday, 10pm, Channel 4)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Caitlin Moran: 'The funniest people in the world are all women' Caz and Caitlin Moran’s excellent and highly quotable comedy returns to the Garry household for a second series, and 16-year-old Germaine (Helen Monks) is still banging on about her bodily functions to all and sundry. After mum Della (Rebekah Staton) switches off the Wi-Fi (“I’m not paying £29.99 a month to beam pixels through the friggin’ air”), the Garry children slope off to the library, where Germaine’s flirting practice leads to the unimaginable: an actual date. She preps for it by dousing her wrists in her own vaginal fluid. Rachel AroestiFILM EVENTSOvernight film festival(Queens Hotel, Eastbourne, Saturday & Sunday)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Terence Nance’s An Oversimplification Of Her Beauty plays at the Overnight film fest. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockSomething different for the weekend: a seaside mini-break where you never have to leave the hotel. Off the beaten track in every way, this new festival screens cult movies in the Queen’s Hotel, followed by parties in the evenings, then you can trip off upstairs to bed (you don’t have to book a room; day passes are also available). Guest curators include Greek actor Ariane Labed (Attenberg, The Lobster), director Jenn Nkiru and academic Emma Dabiri, and their choices are not your standard fare. There are overlooked artefacts such as 90s youth doc and latter-day style guide Wildwood, NJ, and Barbara Loden’s striking 1970 indie Wanda. There’s also Terence Nance’s imaginative An Oversimplification Of Her Beauty and 60s Louisiana tale Eve’s Bayou. Plus vintage outsider arthouse like the sensual Woman Of The Dunes and Bresson’s Au Hasard Balthazar. Steve RoseAll this week’s best film eventsTHEATRETable Top Shakespeare(Barbican Centre: The Pit, London, Tuesday to 6 March)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Forced Entertainment bring their novel take on the bard to the Barbican.As 2016 is the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death, we’ll no doubt hear plenty more about the bard over the coming months. Here, the Barbican gets on the case early with a less orthodox approach to the man. Throughout the first week of March, Forced Entertainment will be performing all 36 plays over six days with the aid of household objects (Macbeth is a cheesegrater, Pericles a lightbulb, Hamlet is played by a bottle of ink; that sort of thing), plus a tabletop and clear, accessible summaries of the texts. Mark CookAll this week’s best new theatreEXHIBTIONS Mark Wallinger(Hauser & Wirth, London, to 7 May)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Turner prize-winner Wallinger’s Freudian new work.Predicting what form Mark Wallinger’s work will take next is a fool’s errand. From giant white horses and replicas of the Doctor’s Tardis to donning a bear costume and investing in a racehorse (named A Real Work Of Art), the Essex-born artist keeps us guessing with his projects. It might sound pat but there is one thing that does unite them, and that is the artist himself: in fact, the self, the bodies we inhabit and the way they rub along together to form something called society lie at the heart of Wallinger’s practice. For this show, titled ID, the artist brings this central facet of his output to the surface with a new series of Freud-referencing works, including a video of an Ilford roundabout shot on a phone and paintings that nod to Rorschach tests, scaled up to the dimensions of Wallinger’s height and armspan. Oliver BascianoAll this week’s best exhibitionsCOMEDYDane Baptiste(Epsom Playhouse, Friday, then on tour)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dane Baptiste creates race-related comedy for squirmish British audiences.Over in the States, talking about the supposed differences between white and black people is such a staple of stand-up that it’s become a cliche. It’s a style of comedy efficiently mocked by The Simpsons, who once showed a hack comic delivering a “white guys drive like this, black guys drive like this” routine. In this country, we’re altogether less comfortable making jokes about that kind of thing, which means any British comedian who wants to tackle the subject of race head-on has to take a more adult and sophisticated approach. Dane Baptiste has the ability to do just that: he’s got a keen but not over-intellectualised awareness of the issues facing young black guys like him, and the instinctive funny bones to make universally accessible humour out of it. Baptiste’s first show netted him a best newcomer nomination at the 2014 Edinburgh festival fringe and with his own BBC sitcom series in the works, it seems he’s very much delivering on his early promise. James KettleAll this week’s best comedyON DEMANDThirteen (iPlayer, from Sunday)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Thirteen: uncomfortable new drama on BBC3/Thirteen: the kidnap thriller that's redefining teen drama It will be interesting to watch BBC3 develop as an exclusively online brand, and this drama feels like a promising start. Jodie Comer plays Ivy Moxam, a 26-year-old woman who has spent 13 years in captivity. None of your Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt hi-jinks here, though; this is uncompromising stuff, icily guiding us through the trauma of Ivy’s re-entry; from identity checks to family crises, this isn’t comfortable viewing. In the meantime, her abductor is still at large. Phil HarrisonMUSICBill Ryder-Jones(Hull, Leeds, Brighton, London, Manchester)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Two To Birkenhead from Ryder-Jones’s West Kirby County Primary.Bill Ryder-Jones seems to be living his musical life backwards, on a journey away from sophistication back to raw-sounding guitar rock. While his first band the Coral have remained faithful to their chirpy psychedelia, since leaving, Jones has covered a lot of ground. His work so far has seen him operate in epic orchestral melancholia, as an intimate and flakily poetic singer-songwriter, and most recently in slacker rock. That’s not to say that Jones’s new one, West Kirby County Primary, is a ragged affair, more that he’s now exercising his considerable chops in a less-poised format. John RobinsonAll this week’s best live musicTALKSBare Lit(Betsey Trotwood & Free Word Centre, London, Saturday & Sunday)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kelly Kanayama of Women Write About Comics speaks at the inaugural Bare Lit festivalThe 2016 World Book Night’s all-white author selection prompted Guardian Review to run an article headed “Why haven’t I been invited to the party? Ask the host”. The approach of Bare Lit, the UK’s first festival exclusively for writers of colour, is simple: throw your own. Diversity panels are out the window. Instead the inaugural programme features a discussion of sci-fi and Afrofuturism with Malaysian author Zen Cho, creator of Sorcerer To The Crown, a fantasy novel following England’s “first African Sorcerer Royal”. Other speakers include poet Jane Yeh on the subject of second-generation poets in exile; Kelly Kanayama of Women Write About Comics; and journalist Robin Yassin-Kassab on his forthcoming book about the Syrian revolution. The breadth of the programme is very much the point. Organiser Media Diversified is out to give writers from BAME backgrounds the platform they deserve, and to show that when they are invited to the party, it shouldn’t be to tick one solitary box. Bella ToddAll this week’s best talks FILMGrimsby   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sacha Baron Cohen’s broad new comedy Grimsby.Satirising the Benefits Street stereotype of low-income Britain is asking for trouble, but Sacha Baron Cohen doubles down on the offensiveness and just about gets away with it. Middling buddy-action comedy is a given when his lager-swilling geezer reunites with his super-spy brother, but there’s enough slapstick absurdity and gross-out invention to break down even the sternest resistance. SRAll this week’s new film releasesDANCEImmortal Tango (Peacock Theatre, London, Tuesday to 19 March)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Immortal Tango: where Hollywood meets tango. Photograph: Gustavo PiolaGerman Cornejo is currently regarded as one of the most versatile and theatrical of tango choreographers. For his latest show, he traces the line between tango and Hollywood, with Cornejo and his partner Gisela Galeassi heading the cast. The playlist includes music by some of the pure tango greats mixed in with tango-inspired songs by Madonna and Adele. Cornejo, who has directed other tango spectacles such as Tango Fire, commands a winning formula of fiercely gifted dancers, soulful music and elegant costumes. Judith MackrellAll this week’s best dance 