Eight episodes of mud and mayhem came to a satisfying end with enough double-crosses, executions and explosions to keep even the most bloodthirsty river rat happy. Along the way, the show’s main theme was revealed: forget its supernatural side and the hints that James was literally back from the dead, this was ultimately about freedom – the freedom to chart your own course through life, unencumbered by forced loyalty or false patriotism. It was fear of freedom that saw poor, loyal Brace ejected from the League of the Damned, and freedom Zilpha sought in her plunge into the icy Thames. Dumbarton died because he chose to serve his masters instead of himself, as did Wilton and Pettifer, expendable to the end. And if James Delaney’s ferocious bid for autonomy ruined the lives of others – well that, too, is true of freedom: like the lovely Lorna Bow, she is a fine mistress but at times a dangerous and capricious one.“The tides are rising. You have lots of people waiting. People who have given up everything for you”Before the ship set sail not for America and Nootka Sound but for Ponta Delgada in the Azores (nice bait and switch, Messrs Hardy and Knight) there was the small matter of James’ escape from the Tower to attend to. Despite the minor inconveniences of a fit, some bloody toes and the reappearance of last week’s hood of sensory deprivation, our Delaney still managed to run rings around Solomon Coop, striking a deal with Sir Stuart Strange under the nose of the Crown’s torturer-in-chief, which led to the collapse of the treason charges and early release. Brilliantly, it transpired that James had also been manipulating Sir Stuart, erroneously convincing him that if he just gave him the damn ship everything would work out for the best.“This whole thing is insane because this day is insane because Delaney is insane because I am insane. Just do it”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Running rings around everyone … James Delaney. Photograph: Scott Free Prods/Robert ViglaskyIndeed Delaney had Sir Stuart jumping through hoops for much of the episode as the EIC’s head honcho freed Helga and Pearl, had the gunpowder delivered from Bedlam to the docks and repurposed a ship for Delaney. Inevitably someone had to pay the price for these humiliations, thus the ever-smug Pettifer and the supercilious Wilton found themselves surplus to requirements, with Sir Stuart ordering their executions once they’d carried out their parts in Operation Freedom. With no one left to point the finger at him, Sir Stuart assumed he was the ultimate victor of this vicious game, boasting to Chichester “I always have one last ace to play.” Unfortunately, if we’ve learned anything in the last eight weeks it is that no one ever got anywhere by underestimating James Delaney. Thus instead of celebrating the EIC’s access to the tea trade, Sir Stuart found his plans literally blowing up in his face thanks to a fake treaty laced with explosives. Now that’s how to say goodbye.“Dear James, at last I have found a way out of the cage in which I have been living”Naysayers be damned! Tom Hardy's Taboo is a work of Wicker Man genius Sir Stuart wasn’t the only cast member to meet a sudden end, as all the loose plot threads were (surprisingly neatly) tidied. The slippery Dumbarton was revealed to be an EIC man as well as an American spy, and subsequently strung up among his own dye vats. More sadly we also said farewell to Helga and Atticus’s silent Maori brother-in-law, both victims of the battle by the docks, and to tormented Zilpha, who threw herself into the Thames. It was perhaps an inevitable end for a woman denied agency at every turn. Zilpha has always trailed impending doom behind her in a dark cloud; Oona Chaplin gave a fine and nervy performance, but there was never the sense she was the mistress of her own fate. Whenever she truly took control – murdering Thorne, her visit to James last week – those actions played against her. Was there another way to tell her story so she found freedom? Yes, but that’s a very modern tale (also arguably Lorna’s). In truth, Zilpha was always too much the corpse bride for it to fit her well. Additional notes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A happy ending for Chichester! … perhaps idealism does have a place in this most brutal of worlds after all. Photograph: Scott Free Prods/Olly Robinson• Lorna was on particularly fine form this week, threatening spies, refusing to put up with brooding, delivering scathing interior design assessments (“We could just sit in these rotting chairs in this shitty house”) and wielding a pistol with panache. Extra points to the wonderful Jessie Buckley for her perfect delivery of the line “No. I’m his mother”. • I’ve grown increasingly fond of Robert, in particular his relationship with Cholmondeley which provided nice relief amid the muck and dirt.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cholmondeley, everyone’s favourite chemist. Photograph: Scott Free Prods• Speaking of everyone’s favourite chemist, I was relieved he survived albeit badly burnt. • Also making it out alive despite having been a dead man walking since the minute he appeared: “poor sweet Godfrey”. Hurrah.• And a happy ending for Chichester too as he received his long-delayed justice in the form of signed confessions from James and Godfrey. Perhaps idealism does have a place in this most brutal of worlds after all. • I know he’s an evil torturer but I can’t help liking Solomon Coop. Anyone who picks discussing plans with his wife in bed over talking to God can’t be all bad. • David Hayman continued to break my heart as the depressive Brace. At least when we left him he had companionship in the form of the long-lost dog from episode one.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A commanding performance … Tom Hardy has been unsettling from beginning to end. Photograph: Robert Viglasky/Scott Free Prods• A big hand also to Tom Hardy, who turned in a commanding performance that was enjoyably unsettling from beginning to end. • Finally, thank you to everyone commenting below the line – I’ve had an absolute blast and I hope you have too.Most magnificently brooding Tom Hardy moment James mourns Zilpha as only he can … by slumping monosyllabically in a tatty chair and pondering their severed bond.Most fantastically baroque threat of the week“Mr Delaney, unless you give up the names of your co-conspirators, every single stitch that they have just put into your body I will pull out myself with my fingernails.” Ah Coop, has no one told you that this man can withstand any torture you fling his way?What did you think? Was it a satisfying ending? Would you watch a second series? And what in the end was the ultimate taboo? As ever, all speculation and no spoilers welcome below…