1. Sucker MC’s (Krush-Groove 1)Sometimes it feels as if we take Run-DMC for granted. The music they made had such a significant impact, not only on the nascent genre they were part of but on the whole of the culture, that the revolutionary nature of their records is often missed. Take, for instance, their first release, which appeared on a 1983 cassette a year before it took its place at the heart of the band’s self-titled debut LP. To contemporary ears, its simplistic drum-machine programming and nursery rhyme rap cadences may sound too basic to appeal except at the level of historical curio. Yet that simplicity is key to its success. You can hear echoes of its sonic austerity in everything that followed, from friends and fellow travellers such as the Beastie Boys and LL Cool J to 21st-century rap titans such as Lil’ Wayne or Kendrick Lamar. Lines from the song have been referenced down the years, and its 808/handclap pattern has become an aural signifier of an era untainted by commerciality or compromise. What was it that captivated everyone? Beyond the stripped back sound, the greatest takeaway from the record is its sense of its makers’ ebullient personalities. It’s an odd observation to make of a record that seems so mechanical and remote. But in the lyrics we hear affable autobiography turned into enthusiastic and friendly lyrical combat, where the brags are good-natured and the boasts gently comedic. The group came in sounding like the future, but made it seem like it was a new world everyone could be a part of.2. King of RockThe classic Run-DMC look was established by the release of the trio’s second album. The cover had Run and DMC only visible from the eyes up, a pair of homburg hats and D’s thick-rimmed glasses emphasising the playfulness of their greatest records. The laughs on the album’s title track haven’t always been considered intentional. Critics had fun with Run’s “There’s three of us but we’re not the Beatles” line, even though he explained that John Lennon’s death had meant there weren’t four Fabs any more. What is unmistakable is the group’s ambition to reach the point where their music would be allowed to stand alongside music of other sounds and styles. The video sees them going in to bat for their genre: Run and D amble through a staid museum of rock whose attendant attempts to bar them entry. D brushes him aside with the opening lines – “I’m the king of rock, there is none higher / Sucker MC’s should call me sire”. It’s declamatory bombast recast as hip-hop’s Emancipation Proclamation – before he and Run trample on Michael Jackson’s glove, break Elton John’s glasses and fail to properly genuflect before a Jamie Reid-style portrait of the Queen.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 3. My AdidasRaising Hell, Run-DMC’s third album, is widely regarded as marking the start of hip-hop’s first golden age, and heralding the explosion of sample-based rap experimentation that characterised the genre’s dazzling next half-decade. It also marked the end of the old school, which Run, D and Jam Master Jay had been a part of. The record remains compelling because it looks back as often as it looks forward: for every moment that points to a new future, there is another to remind the listener of the heritage it’s built on; of the importance of not relinquishing what’s been learned in the quest for something new. My Adidas was released as a double A-side single with Peter Piper – rap’s equivalent of Penny Lane/Strawberry Fields Forever – as a 45 that exemplified the state of its makers’ art in spectacular terms. The songs emphasise the combination of tradition and experimentation that Run-DMC were channelling by the early part of 1986. Peter Piper was the kind of block-party DJ routine the group had grown up hearing, with Jay cutting up the cowbell intro from Bob James’s cover of Paul Simon’s Take Me to the Mardi Gras while the two MCs traded lines, rhymes, sometimes interlocking syllables. My Adidas, meanwhile, took the ideas somewhere else entirely, the permanent upheaval of the programmed beat framing a formally daring lyric in which D sketches out a potted history of the group’s achievements as seen from the perspective of their shoes. Rap would never be the same again. The song was written and released without the involvement of the German sportswear manufacturer, and it wasn’t until the following year, when executives attended a sell-out Run-DMC gig at Madison Square Garden and saw 20,000 people waving their Adidas shoes in the air on command from the stage that the company thought that perhaps they might want to take this hip-hop thing a bit more seriously. 4. Walk This WayThere isn’t even a pause for breath between My Adidas and Walk This Way on side one of Raising Hell, and it was with the same sense of excited urgency, of ceaseless innovation, that the single rolled round the world. The concept came from producer Rick Rubin, who was aware the trio had rhymed live over the opening drum break of the Aerosmith track: until he suggested covering it, none of the band had apparently listened to the song beyond the first guitar riff. The mission begun in the King of Rock video is completed in the brilliant promo for Walk This Way. The bands are rehearsing in adjacent rooms, thumping the walls as they each fail to understand what they’re hearing from the other side, until finally the barricades separating the genres are obliterated by the musicians and rock and rap meet as equals. The symbolism is impossible to miss. Walk This Way did more to popularise rap beyond a specialist audience than any other song, and its worldwide success was instrumental in making hip-hop a globally relevant art form. It remains, not just an important record, but an infectiously, reliably enjoyable one too – the band’s humour absolutely fundamental to its success.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 5. Christmas in HollisIf you wanted proof that rap had arrived in music’s mainstream, it came just before Christmas 1987, when Run-DMC made what remains one of the best and most unselfconsciously entertaining Christmas singles of them all. There had been a festive rap before – by Kurtis Blow, an early client of Run’s brother, Run-DMC manager Russell Simmons – but with this rite of passage, Run-DMC completed the journey from upstart outsiders to mainstream pop stars. That they did it on their own terms is all the more remarkable. The track is based on a sample of Clarence Carter’s salacious Christmas soul classic Back Door Santa: it was suggested to them by the group’s PR man Bill Adler, who was keen for them to accept an invitation to appear on an all-star charity Christmas compilation. Run’s verse tells a story about finding Santa’s wallet and returning it, while D – keeping it real, as ever – talks about a typical family Christmas. That’s his mum in the video, dishing out the turkey and mac’n’cheese.6. Run’s HouseRaising Hell made Run-DMC superstars, but from that point on mistakes and missteps dogged a group who had barely put a foot wrong for the first three years of their existence. The follow-up LP was delayed while an accompanying feature film was made, and by the time Tougher Than Leather arrived in 1988, hip-hop was moving at a speed few genres ever reach: any artist would struggle to remain at its cutting edge. The album fared better than the film, but the group’s career never touched the heights of Raising Hell again. There’s much to cherish about Tougher Than Leather, though, in particular its opening track and first single. The record had a bigger, fuller sound than Raising Hell, but they stuck to the mode of working they’d established on the previous album – rhyming over the same breakbeats that the earliest generation of MCs had grown up on, in the years before anyone thought of making rap records. The only difference now was that the samples they used tended to feature more instruments than just bass and drums. Run’s House is the apogee of the style. Jay cues up a couple of copies of the Soul Searchers’ slouching funk monster Ashley’s Roachclip, and Run and D rap like there’s a hellhound on their tails. Notwithstanding the quality of the rest of this list, to these ears, it’s their finest moment.7. Beats to the RhymeThere’s some cracking stuff on Tougher Than Leather, but it’s hard to shake the sense that the album aimed to replicate its predecessor a little too closely. But Beats to the Rhyme was mould-breaking: as the title suggests, the track reversed the traditional construction of rap tracks, with Jay having to fashion a backing track after Run and D had laid down their vocals. He responds with a soundbed built around counterintuitive blurts of sonar-beep keyboards from Bob James’s extraordinary Nautilus, then finds bits and pieces of James Brown to work underneath the hooks and between the lines. 8. The AveThere was something more than a little bit depressing about hearing Run-DMC playing catch-up in the gangsta rap marketplace, and 1990’s Back from Hell is the sound of a group stuck in an unenviable bind. By this point, whatever record they made would have alienated some section of their fan base: for everyone who heard the Stone Roses-sampling What’s It All About? and considered it an ambitious attempt to widen hip-hop’s sonic lexicon, there were others decrying Run-DMC’s latest attempt to rekindle the Walk This Way magic. For every fan acclaiming Pause’s nimble adoption of the swingbeat sound of the day, there were others who couldn’t believe the fearless leaders of just four years earlier had been reduced to following those they’d inspired. The album’s highlight is The Ave, arguably the last in the long line of sample-based, “traditional” rap classics the trio would mint. Between sirens and sound effects that recall Public Enemy, Jay’s turntables belt lumps out of the JBs’ Same Beat. The three verses – two from D, one from Run – offer the observational detail and first-person storytelling that the growing hip-hop audience had come to expect. There is some discomfort to be felt in hearing them focus on what they believed fans were demanding rather than following their own instincts, but it’s still got enough of what we loved about Run-DMC to keep us involved.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 9. Back from Hell (Remix)Most Run-DMC singles had instrumentals or album tracks as B-sides, and most of their career was in the era before multi-artist posse cuts became ubiquitous. It was Public Enemy’s enlistment of Ice Cube and Big Daddy Kane on the 1990 album track Burn Hollywood Burn that kicked that vogue off, so it perhaps illustrates how interest in Run-DMC had nosedived that this summit meeting of Cube and Chuck D with their spiritual forebears remains relatively little known. Released in March 1991, on the B-side of the swingbeat-flavoured Faces, the track finds Cube incorporating track titles from Back from Hell into a narrative that ends with his Lench Mob mates doing a drive-by in Queens, before Chuck instructs listeners not to “mistake us for the Tragically Hip”. 10. Down With the KingAfter their fifth album failed to return them to rap’s summit, the group’s individual journeys through personal hells seemed to begin. Run was charged with rape (though the case was eventually dropped), Jay survived a car crash and a shooting and D became alcoholic. Money troubles affected them all. The 1993 album Down With the King was presented as their comeback. The “King” of the title was God, with Run now training for the ministry and D doing stints as a church deacon. The album followed the example of the Back from Hell remix by pairing the group with some of the big names in rap who had grown up on Run-DMC (producers included EPMD, A Tribe Called Quest’s Q-Tip and Public Enemy’s Bomb Squad), and the overall impression was of a community rallying around its resurgent leaders. The title track is the album’s finest moment. Producer Pete Rock loops a slice of a song from the Hair soundtrack, overlays some monastic-sounding chanting, and kicks things off with a lift from My Adidas, reminding long-term fans of what they’d been missing. Run and D sound rejuvenated, as if working alongside the new jacks has been restorative, and a verse from Pete’s rap partner, CL Smooth, finds him going back to Sucker MCs to hymn the venerable trio. Sadly, it was to prove a false dawn. The very belated emergence of a seventh album, Crown Royal in 2001, satisfied very few fans: D’s involvement was restricted to three brief appearances, as a result of illness and a growing distance from Run, and collaborations with everyone from Method Man to Kid Rock and Fred Durst did little to plug the gap his absence left. A year later, Jam Master Jay was shot and killed in his recording studio. The murder remains unsolved.