It's Pant Mawr on the map – the big hollow – although older local people refer to it as Maesgwm, the field valley. Not a place that charms in immediately prospect, this – just a broad, sedgy depression, pale with winter-blanched marsh-grasses, between long ridges thrown out westwards from twin high summits of the Moelwynion. A crude, common agricultural policy-funded farm track gives access. Tempest-razed conifers mar a lower slope. Yet I love this plain, high, unvisited place. In spring you hear the curlew at their nesting sites – Henry Williamson described their song as "like a thousand golden bubbles rising out of the water" – and the alarm-note of the golden plover, too – easiest to imitate, and most plaintive of all bird-calls.Just down-valley, the cuckoo comes early, hurrying about her piratical business between scattered oaks across the hillside by Hendre Gwenllian. It's a fine afternoon. I climb to the big drum cradle at the incline head on Braich y Parc. Slate country, this: Blaenau Ffestiniog is beyond the craggy skyline, relics of the old industry are all around the valley-head. It's a fine place to sit and take your ease, facing out west over the two estuaries, sun gleaming across that Celtic swirl of water and sand. One June day years ago I met an old quarryman here, scarred of face with thick hands clenched into the grip a heavy hammer dictates. He rolled me a delicate cigarette, shared a flask of tea, told me he'd walked round along the old tramway from Tanygrisiau, talked me through the names of all the hills.Moelwynion, he told me, could mean bare, white hills but he preferred his father's interpretation – hill of the lambs – because from down in Tanygrisiau that's just how they looked: like lambs skipping round each other in play. He invited me to visit him. When I did, that November, he was a month dead. "The dust," his widow explained. "I don't know how he got about in the hills at the end. But he loved to go there."He was in my mind today as I followed the tramway, a green belvedere now, round to Bwlch Stwlan, across scree-slopes illuminated by lacey green brilliance of parsley fern. Not many to be met with his knowledge and quietude in the hills now, I thought, as the sun lowered behind vivid bars of cloud. 