To some, a ban on Phil Collins’s In The Air Tonight would always be justifiable. This fantasy, however, was once reality. After Saddam Hussein sent troops into Kuwait in August 1990, the BBC (according to a 1991 report in the New Statesman) compiled a catalogue of nearly 70 songs deemed unsuitable for airplay. Alongside Collins’s solo debut and other oversensitive choices – amongst them Queen’s Flash and Abba’s Waterloo – sat Kate Bush’s Army Dreamers, about a mother mourning her soldier son.Bush’s song now joins a list drawn up by singer-songwriter Pål Moddi Knutsen AKA Moddi. He was inspired to compile it after the Norwegian musician Birgitte Grimstad told him about her song Eli Geva, written in 1982 in response to the story of an Israeli officer who refused to lead his troops into Beirut during the Lebanon war. It had been blacklisted by Norway’s ambassador to Israel. “I started wondering if there were other songs like it,” says Moddi, “that had this one thing in common: they had been suppressed.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The result is his new album Unsongs, whose dozen tracks – whittled down from more than 400 – include a delicate chamber folk version of Army Dreamers. Released at a time when, Moddi argues, “most music you hear is just nonsense and background noise”, it’s a reminder that artists were once regularly moved to use their voices to inspire change.“Music and politics, it seems, are increasingly considered to be separate domains,” he continues. “Often I’m told that musicians are not supposed to have an opinion, that our job is to entertain, and just that. My impression – and this is what really scares me – is that most musicians agree.”Pussy Riot members take Kremlin to European court of human rights Among those who’ve contested this assumption in recent years are Russia’s Pussy Riot, arrested in 2012 for performing their Punk Prayer in Moscow’s Cathedral of Christ the Saviour. Moddi’s reinvention of the tune provides welcome proof of music’s continuing, if underemployed, power to confront authorities: he was refused permission to film its video in a church on his country’s border with Russia. He recalls the parish’s answer to his request. “‘After considering the text as a whole, we find that the lyrics are not acceptable within our churches.’ I know this might sound strange, but in a way it made me feel very assured. It was still ‘bannable’.”Whether rebellion is back in the air tonight is debatable, but Moddi remains pragmatic. “If this album can inspire musicians, myself included, to write music that challenges the status quo,” he concludes, “then I have at least partly succeeded.”Unsongs is out on 16 Sep via Propeller Recordings