The Community of Hope PJ HarveyArtists don’t always get inspirations from their own pulsating, whirlygig brains, but from real-life sources. Sometimes, these real-life sources have no idea what they’re doing. A few years ago, Washington Post reporter Paul Schwartzman was put in touch with war photographer Seamus Murphy, who was doing a project with a British musician. These people needed someone to give them a tour of the south-eastern part of Washington DC, an area far removed, in every way, from the grandeur of the avenues of power around the White House. “‘Polly’ was how Seamus referred to her,” Schwartzmann said, although he had no idea who she was.PJ Harvey: The Hope Six Demolition Project review – potent, beautiful songs and minor lyrical missteps Last month, PJ Harvey released The Community of Hope, the second single from her ninth studio album, The Hope Six Demolition Project. According to an article Schwartzmann wrote for his paper last month, Harvey’s lyrics follow his tour-diary patter from their trip around the district (indeed, the video for the single, released a week after the track, begins with Schwartzmann in the car they shared). Harvey repeats Schwartzmann’s grim thoughts about the area he covered as a bear reporter, noting “the school that looks like a shithole”, “the one sit-down restaurant in Ward Seven – nice”, and “this is just drug town, just zombies/But that’s just life”.Harvey was criticised almost immediately for her description of the area. Organisers from the nonprofit Community of Hope project wrote her an open letter, in which they said: “Have you not trashed the place that, for better or worse, is home to people who are working to make it better?” The area’s former mayor, Vincent Gray, also said he would not dignify “this inane composition with a response”. In context, The Community of Hope plays like a song that questions the way people talk about the poor, but its lyricist didn’t think about how the poor would respond to being talked about. Controversy, unintentional or not, remains a tough master.Wild Thing Tone Loc   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Misunderstood lyrics don’t often cause controversy. Creedence Clearwater Revival, sadly, weren’t telling us there’s a “bathroom on the right” but a “bad moon on the rise”. Jimi Hendrix wasn’t exploring his rock star sexuality on Purple Haze, but kissing the sky. However, 27 years ago this week, a lyric five teenagers were singing while awaiting questioning in a New York holding cell was heard wrongly, and those implications took on a new, unpleasant life.On 19 April 1989, a female banker who was out running was beaten, raped and left for dead in Central Park in New York. Matias Reyes confessed to the crime from prison in 2002, and his DNA was found on the jogger’s sock. However, five other young men – four black and one Hispanic – had been accused of the crime at the time, and then jailed, despite no physical evidence linking them to the attack. The song they had been singing was Tone Loc’s Wild Thing, a huge rap hit that year, featuring a string of bawdy scenarios about consensual sex. Police misheard “wild thing” as “wilding”, which they read as an urban slang term for a violent rampage. No such term existed, but it caught on in the press, fitting a moral-panic-driven media narrative that described these juveniles as “bloodthirsty”, “animals” and “savages”.Despite its discredited beginnings, the term lives on today. In 2013, in the wake of Trayvon Martin’s murder, LAPD police captain Evangelyn Nathan warned that the reaction of young people was “sounding more like wilding than a peaceful protest”. The New York Daily News also reported on the return of “wilding” as an “emerging, unfortunate rite of spring”. Tone Loc’s original song, remixed in 2007 with additional vocals by Peaches, still sounds a million miles from the moral panic that followed it.Helter Skelter The Beatles   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Controversy is often the engine of rock, both musically and economically. Jolt someone with a shocking lyric or sentiment, and they’ll notice, gab about it to people, and, in the old days at least, shell out pounds for the pleasure of getting thunderstruck again. From the Kingsmen’s rough-and-ready take on Louie Louie (the FBI suspected filthy lyrics were hiding in the band’s lo-fi racket, and investigated the song, unsuccessfully, for nearly three years) to the accusations thrown at songs such as Led Zeppelin’s Stairway to Heaven and the Eagles’ Hotel California (evangelists claimed they included backwards messages that would incite Satan), authority was threatened by rock because it didn’t understand the power of noise.To this end, the Beatles’ Helter Skelter was Paul McCartney’s attempt to out-Who the Who. In Anthology, Paul McCartney recalls reading Pete Townshend in the Melody Maker saying he’d just made “‘the raunchiest, loudest, most ridiculous rock’n’roll record you’ve ever heard’. That got me going, just hearing him talk about it. So I said to the guys: ‘I think we should do a song like that; something really wild.’” But that wasn’t what made Helter Skelter a cause celebre.Over in Los Angeles, Charles Manson heard Helter Skelter not as something really wild, but as a vision of fast-approaching racial armageddon (“Look out, ’cos here she comes!”), which his ‘family’ would help incite by murdering white establishment figures. They would then hide in the desert while a race war raged, and eventually “go back to the top of the slide”. Years later, also on Anthology, Ringo Starr spoke out on the Manson murders aftermath. “It stopped everyone in their tracks because suddenly all this violence came out in the midst of all this love and peace and psychedelia ... Everyone in LA felt: ‘Oh, God, it can happen to anybody.’”In the Air Tonight Phil Collins   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Huge songs about specific situations are often punch-drunk with metaphors, making them easy to interpret by the vast record-buying public, and ensuring them regular rotation on Magic FM’s 2am Drunk-in-a-Cab slot. In the Air Tonight is a good example, written by Phil Collins in the wake of his divorce from his wife, describing the pain he felt when he realised she had cheated on him.The key lines, given his experience, are hidden in its verses: “I saw what you did/I saw it with my own to eyes/So you can wipe off that grin/I know where you’ve been.” But it’s the song’s atmospheric intro that really sticks in the head, synthesisers creating a sparse, eerie soundworld aroundthese mysterious opening words: “I can feel it coming in the air tonight, oh Lord/And I’ve been waiting for this moment for all my life.”In 1990, In the Air Tonight was banned by the BBC, for having lyrics that could be deemed offensive during the Gulf War. Betrayal might feel like a Scud missile, sure, but Collins wouldn’t have expected that comparison. Other songs dragged off air at that time included Billy Ocean’s When the Going Gets Tough, the Tough Get Going (no rallying sentiments, thank you), the Bangles’ Walk Like an Egyptian (presumably an action not in the military strategy) and Queen’s Killer Queen (there are tactics, and there are tactics: arming the monarch just isn’t cricket). In 2001, Goldfrapp didn’t play Pilots at the Mercury Prize ceremony as it fell on the same day as the 9/11 attacks. That’s the pop song’s journey: never knowing where its meaning will end up.Short People Randy Newman   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Strong messages in songs run the risk of being misinterpreted, particularly by people that don’t listen to the whole of a song. Take Bruce Springsteen’s famous holler of “Borrrrrrrrn in the USA”: not a vocal equivalent of a patriotic air-punch, but a cry of desperation from a Vietnam vet. Then there’s the phenomenon of the oh-so-wrong wedding song: REM’s The One I Love (“a simple prop to occupy my time”) and the Police’s restraining-order epic, Every Breath You Take (“I’ll be watching you”).Randy Newman fell foul of the lazy listener in 1977. He had recorded a song written from the point of a biased narrator before, taking a harsh look at American racism on 1974’s Rednecks, from his previous album, Good Little Boys. Short People was a song about the silliness of prejudice, bouncing around a jolly piano line, that made its narrator sound absurd to make its point clear. “Short People got no reason to live,” it began, daftly. “They got little hands/Little eyes/They walk around/Tellin’ great big lies”.Short People was banned on radio stations in Boston, New York and Philadelphia, and a politician in Maryland tried to make it illegal in his state, too, although the attorney general refused (“What thin reasoning could the state assert to justify a broadcast ban on Short People when DJs are free to play Tiny Dancer?” he asked). Last year, Newman told the Performing Songwriter website that he “had no idea that there was any sensitivity … I mean, that anyone could believe that anyone was as crazy as that character. To have that kind of animus against short people, and then to sing it and put it all in song and have a philosophy on it.”