The day Trump’s Muslim ban began in January, publisher Laura Jones was editing an essay by Zeba Talkhani about being a good Muslim. She reached the part where Talkhani, who lives in the UK, recounted being told by a man: “When Trump’s in power he’s going to ban you from entering the US.” “I just thought: ‘Oh my God; that happened today,’” Jones says. “That actually happened.”You may not have heard of Talkhani, or Jen McGregor, Mel Reeve or Katie Muriel. They’re all “nasty women”: some of the 20 writers making their debut in a new collection of essays looking at what it is to be a woman today. They may be young and unknown, but none of the writers hold back, tackling topics as heavy and complex as contraception, sexual assault, weight, class and race. Some are furious, like Ren Aldridge’s fierce deconstruction of sexism in punk (an essay called “Touch me again and I will fucking kill you”); others are sad, like Reeve’s reflections on the aftermath of rape, or McGregor’s essay about developing osteopenia from Depo-Provera, the contraception injection.After Donald Trump called Hillary Clinton “such a nasty woman” during one of the US election debates, millions took to social media to reclaim the label as a call for defiance and female rebellion. Two people swept up in that fury were Jones, 26, and Heather McDaid, 25, just six months after establishing their indie publishing company 404 Ink late last year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A woman protests against the Trump administration in Vermont. Photograph: Kerry Cunningham/GuardianWitnessThis was the Trump provocation that shocked the pair into action. At the mere mention of the president’s name, McDaid mutters an expletive. “After the election, I knew we had to do this book,” she says. “He’s rolling back rights for everyone except white men and businessmen.”“He’s an insufferable bigot,” says Jones. “But it’s not something that we can pretend isn’t there. We saw this coming.”Political foresight aside, neither of them anticipated how well received Nasty Women would be. Margaret Atwood deemed it “an essential window into many of the hazard-strewn worlds younger women are living in right now” and personally donated to 404 Ink’s Kickstarter campaign to fund the book’s publication. The £6,000 target was smashed in just three days (helped along with Atwood’s Twitter endorsement: “sounds nasty enough for Moi”).By the end of the Kickstarter in January, more than 1,300 backers had raised £22,156. “We were speechless and ecstatic at £6,000,” McDaid says. “Anything after that just stopped registering as being real money.”The Glasgow and Edinburgh launches for the book are now sold out, with waiting lists in place for those eager to get hold of returned tickets – evidence of the demand for young, defiant, female voices. “No matter who reads this, there will be at least one essay that will open your eyes to something different, something that you identify with,” Jones says. She even thinks the process of editing Nasty Women made her “a much better intersectional feminist”; acknowledging their white privilege has been a challenge for both women while working on the book. “At the minute, those who shout the loudest to the most get to shape what the ‘truth’ is,” says McDaid. “So we’re telling stories that are eye opening and important. We’re creating a platform for voices that aren’t being heard.’One of those voices is Muriel. A 24-year-old criminology student living in Maine, she was approached by McDaid to write about familial divides after she had a vicious Facebook row with a Trump-supporting family member. The resulting essay, Independence Day, is astoundingly frank: Muriel, who is of Puerto Rican descent, was labelled a “spic” by her aunt. “I cannot decide what is scarier: that Trump is president, or that people I know and love enabled him,” she writes. “What I have decided is that my aunt was right about one thing: I have a big damn mouth and I’m going to use it.”'Nasty woman' is an insult we know all too well “I can’t think of anything more important right now than women telling their truths,” Katie says. “This is the time for pushing back, for saying no.”Self-proclaimed neo-nazis and KKK supporters have tweeted McDaid and Jones with graphic images of women being sexually assaulted. “I think that sums up the current state that we’re in,” says McDaid, dryly. “Publish a book about women with a very tenuous link to Trump in the title and neo-nazis will tweet at you.”“People are mistaking us for a dedicated feminist publisher, which is understandable,” says Jones. “But we didn’t set out to do that. We know in some cases we’re preaching to the choir, but that choir can always be a little bit more vocal and a little better educated.”Now that publication day is finally here, the full measure of Nasty Women’s success is still to be seen. “Trump and Piers Morgan are at the top of the list to get a copy,” Jones says. “We’ve been trying so hard to antagonise Piers Morgan, but he hasn’t bitten yet.”Nasty Women is published on Wednesday by 404 Ink.