I first met Terry when we were both covering the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona. It’s difficult not to be in awe of someone who’s been doing the job for twice as long as you, but he was warm, funny and generous to a fault. I might have been the upstart jock from Radio 1, but he remembered when that was him, I think. The last time I worked alongside him, I’d just come back from Beijing, and I went into his studio – I bought some cakes and things, because Terry loved his food – and he put me straight on air. The studio had curry in it, food that had been sent from everywhere, and it was open and available to all. I did try to resist, but he insisted. So from 1992 to 2008, bracketed by two Olympic games, the memory is the same: I always felt that he was the master, he was the one in control, but always smiling, always welcoming. And he didn’t insist on having the last word. So many broadcasters would always want to have the last quip, but Terry was never like that. He managed to stay humble throughout.Sir Terry Wogan - a life in pictures As a listener, there’s one memory of Terry that will always stay with me. In September 2001 I had been on 5 Live when the planes hit the towers, so all that story was on my show. The following morning I was doing the school run, and I thought, I wonder how Terry’s show is reflecting what felt at the time like a changed world, and the answer to that was, he hadn’t changed anything. Obviously everything was sensitive, the music was not inappropriate, but it was the same absurdist world he was painting and inviting you to be a part of. At the time I was querying whether he’d got that right, but I realise now Terry was right, and that was exactly the right thing to do – if you wanted the news you could get it elsewhere, and if you wanted to stay a part of Terry’s world he was going to carry on bringing it to you. There was a world he spun, a club you were invited to be a part of – it was not a difficult club to join, everyone was welcome – and if you tuned in to Terry in the morning you were part of his irreverent, warm, giving world. It wasn’t denying there was really bad stuff happening, it’s just we were choosing to do other things and still poke fun at people and still read out funny emails.