1. Nightmares in Wax – Black LeatherPete Burns was famous before he was famous: a waspish Wirral weirdo who gave five times as good as he got to hapless hecklers on the streets of Liverpool, and a sharp-tongued shop assistant at Probe record shop, legendary for viciously vetting the choices of customers. Stories abound of Burns refusing to sell people Secret Affair singles “because they’re shit”, or contemptuously hurling OMD records at customers across the counter. Underneath it was a battleship-strength belief that he could do better. Black Leather was the first sign that he might have had a point.Pete Burns – provocateur with a pop brain and a sensitive side Nightmares in Wax, originally trading under the controversy-baiting name Rainbows over Nagasaki, were actually Burns’ second band, following the short-lived Mystery Girls (one of those scouse proto-supergroups [see also: Big in Japan, the Crucial Three] that featured everyone who was going to be anyone – in this case Messrs Julian Cope and Pete Wylie). But the equally provocatively titled Birth of a Nation EP was his first release, created at Amazon Studios at the very start of the 1980s (recorded in December 1979, it was mixed in January 1980). The standout track was a piece of impossibly sleazy punk-funk that began with Burns laying his cards firmly on the table: “I am what I am and I know what I like, and I like it on the back of a motorbike”, before panting and grunting like a pervert in the park bushes, interpolating KC and the Sunshine Band’s That’s the Way (I Like It) – a song he couldn’t leave alone – and lusting after leather-clad “muscle boys”. This, it’s worth remembering, was before Frankie Goes to Hollywood existed, if only just: bassist Ambrose Reynolds would join the first line-up of FGTH later in the same year.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Nightmares in Wax: Black Leather 2. Dead Or Alive – It’s Been Hours NowAfter a cabinet reshuffle and a name change, Burns returned. The early Dead Or Alive material was heavy on goth atmospherics, as might be expected of a band who recruited Wayne Hussey, later of the Sisters of Mercy and the Mission, as its guitarist. It’s Been Hours Now, the first DOA recording with Hussey on board, moved to a restrained robotic gallop that would later be reprised on the Sisters of Mercy’s track Floorshow (albeit before Hussey had joined them). Burns’ lyric began with a typically decadent but mysterious scenario: “And here we are on your floor at dawn, with red marks all over our faces / I guess we went too far this time ...” By verse three, however, he’d moved on to less subtle sexual innuendo: “Born of the Lion sign, I always get the meat that I go after / Cos my teeth are sharp, and my prowl is very sneaky.” Released in small quantities on their own Black Eyes Records, the It’s Been Hours Now EP didn’t cause a flicker on the charts, but helped crystallise the musical mood that gave Dead Or Alive a thrillingly dark edge, even in their pop heyday.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Dead Or Alive performing It’s Been Hours Now on TV – video3. Dead Or Alive – Misty CirclesSophisticated Boom Boom, the debut Dead Or Alive album, is the sort of record one typically finds in secondhand bargain bins and charity shops, on vinyl for a quid. And rarely will a quid be better spent, because it stands up fantastically well. Having signed to Epic, the band hooked up with rising German producer Zeus B Held, who had made his name with Gina X Performance and worked with British synth artists such as Fàshiön and John Foxx. Held gave DOA’s sound the crisp snap and thwack it needed. The album’s lead single Misty Circles was a disco-noir cracker, still popular with clubbers decades later. Despite the major label behind it, Misty Circles only made it to No 100, though it would later find its way into millions of homes on the B-side of the band’s biggest hit. It did, however, take Burns on to national television via ITV’s Razzmatazz, startling pre-teen viewers with his Vivienne Westwood get-up, heavy make-up, oversized top hat and ribboned dreads, looking for all the world like Boy George’s evil stepsister. Which, in so many ways, he was.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Dead Or Alive perform Misty Circles on TV – video4. Dead Or Alive – That’s The Way (I Like It)Though he may have been a gender-bender in terms of crossing lines with his dress sense, a bisexual in his private life, and someone who in later years underwent more than 300 cosmetic surgery procedures to make his face more womanly, Pete Burns was – crucially – never effeminate. His persona was 100% masculine, and his voice roared like a ravenous lion. So, when he recorded a thumpingly irresistible cover of KC and the Sunshine Band’s disco classic for Dead Or Alive’s first chart hit, adding his own “keep that, keep that body strong” to the original’s lyric, there was somehow nothing camp about it: he sounded like a predator. The video is a scream. Burns, with the biggest and best hair of 1984, rampages around the shower block of a gymnasium with a troupe of female bodybuilders, before popping up in front of a sign saying “Absolutely No Boys” with a knowing twitch of the eyebrows.5. Dead Or Alive – You Spin Me Round (Like a Record)The decline of 80s pop can be traced by clicking through the front covers of Smash Hits magazine. In the aftermath of Band Aid/Live Aid, the lunatics, eccentrics and outsiders who had made the first part of the decade so exciting had either run out of steam or grown up and got serious (read: boring). The new breed of clean-cut, take-home-to-mum pop stars were even worse. Only one face was keeping things interesting. Burns kicked down a closing door and, along with Sigue Sigue Sputnik, (briefly) kept the flag flying for the freaks. His main weapon was an absolute nitrogen bomb of a tune inspired, he said, by Luther Vandross, Little Nell and Wagner in equal measure. You Spin Me Round (Like a Record) brooked no dissent, a relentless Hi-NRG juggernaut fronted by Burns at his most imperious, all finger-wags, eye-patches, Vishnu arms and gold nails. It may have taken 17 weeks to reach the top of the charts, but once it got there, in March 1985, it sealed its position as one of the defining records of the decade. The album Youthquake followed it into the Top 10. Its producers, Stock, Aitken and Waterman had previously scored hits with the likes of Divine and Hazell Dean, but were on a financial cliff-edge until the DOA smash, their first No 1, saved them. It caught the attention of Bananarama, whose run of SAW-produced hits teed the team up to dominate the end of the 80s with Rick, Jason, Kylie, Sonia and Mel & Kim. A blessing to some, a curse to others.6. Dead Or Alive – In Too Deep (Off Yer Mong mix)In much the same way that Trevor Horn had used ABC’s The Lexicon of Love as a showcase for his abilities, Youthquake was SAW’s calling card. Although all the songs on the second Dead Or Alive album are credited to the line-up of Pete Burns, Steve Coy, Tim Lever and Mike Percy, the production team of Mike Stock, Matt Aitken and Pete Waterman were given free rein to determine the record’s shuddering, shimmering house-pop sound. It produced no fewer than four Top 40 hits, and the pick of the post-You Spin Me Round releases was probably In Too Deep. The six-minute Off Yer Mong mix (Burns still hadn’t grown out of potentially offensive titles), from the flipside of the 12in, is an absolute joy, the sound of poured sunlight.Pete Burns – a life in pictures 7. The Smiths – Barbarism Begins at Home (Live at the Royal Albert Hall)In 1985, many fans of the Smiths were bemused when their serious-minded indie rock hero turned out to be best mates with a glossy synthpop star. For anyone familiar with Dead Or Alive’s roots, however, the sight of Morrissey and Burns palling up on the front of Smash Hits’ 9 October issue was not such a startling one. The friendship was first made public earlier in the year, when The Smiths finished their Meat Is Murder tour at the Royal Albert Hall on 6 April. Returning to the stage to encore with their eight-minute funk monster Barbarism Begins at Home, they welcome Burns (and Dead Or Alive drummer Steve Coy, on congas) as a special guest. On the many bootlegs that exist, the duetting vocalists can be heard to simultaneously embody both of the song’s possible interpretations. Audibly enjoying applying his rich baritone to the line “Unruly boys who will not grow up must be taken in hand”, Burns adds gloriously sordid S&M overtones to Morrissey’s critique of parental brutality.8. Dead Or Alive – Something in My HouseIn a spirit of “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it”, Dead Or Alive resumed their collaboration with SAW for their third album, Mad Bad and Dangerous To Know. On the front cover Burns, his face a mask of pallor, looked like the doomed romantic hero of a German expressionist chiller. The feel of the artwork was captured on Something in My House, whose haunted-by-lost-love metaphor owes much to R Dean Taylor’s There’s a Ghost in My House. The track was a horror-pop monster, with an everything-including-the-kitchen-sink production, stuttering “ah, ah, ah-ah-ah-ah-ah” samples, and at the centre of it all, Burns at his most magnificent, riding the storm like a Valkyrie. It would be Dead Or Alive’s seventh and final Top 40 hit.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Dead Or Alive’s video for Something in My House9. Glam feat Pete Burns – Sex DriveIn the mid-90s – equidistant both from his pop star peak and his reality show comeback – Burns could not have been further exiled from the zeitgeist. At least in Britain, where his shamelessly synthetic music – and persona – were terminally unfashionable amid the blokey, guitary, down-to-earth spirit of the age. Caring nothing about such things, he went somewhere else. Italy, to be precise, where in 1994 he hooked up with Eurodance production duo Riccardo Testoni and Elvio Moratto, AKA Glam. The result was Sex Drive, a turbo-charged Italo house tune that would later be re-recorded for Dead Or Alive’s Nukleopatra album. The lyric may be a well-worn motoring/shagging metaphor, but if it’s good enough for Bruce Springsteen, it’s good enough for anyone.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Pete Burns and Glam perform Sex Drive on Italian TV – video10. Pete Burns – Jack and Jill PartyBy the early noughties, Burns had been adopted by the electroclash crowd in London, where he gave a memorable performance (of which footage survives on YouTube) at Nag Nag Nag, his gym-buff body covered in nothing but a thong. His real gift to the scene, however, came the following year with Jack and Jill Party, an absolute banger, for which he turned not to some young hipster whizz-kid but the old school, collaborating with old chart rivals the Pet Shop Boys. “Possessed of a power to fascinate,” he intoned, equal parts self-awareness and self-aggrandisement, “It’s almost like I’m almost straight.”