Sir Antony Jay, the co-writer of the political satires Yes Minister and Yes, Prime Minister, has died at the age of 86. He was surrounded by his wife and family when he died peacefully on Sunday evening after a long illness.Born in London, Jay started his career at the BBC’s current affairs and documentary department, where he was a founder member of Tonight, the groundbreaking current affairs programme, becoming its editor in 1962.Sir Antony Jay obituary Sir Antony was to draw on this time as a producer in the late 1950s and early 1960s when, along with Jonathan Lynn, he created the hit political comedies starring Paul Eddington, Sir Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds.The satires, a wry take on the struggles between politicians and wily civil servants, were taken to heart by audiences across Europe and the English-speaking world and continue to be a favourite reference point in discussions of contemporary politics.When Britain digested the result of the recent referendum on membership of the European Union, for example, a YouTube clip from Yes Minister in which a civil servant patiently explains the reasons behind Britain’s membership of the EU to a hapless minister went viral.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jay’s writing career also included scripting documentaries Royal Family and Elizabeth R: A Year in the Life of a Queen, for which he was appointed Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO) for personal services to the royal family. He was made a Knight Bachelor in 1988. As well as authoring several management books, he founded the management and sales training film company Video Arts alongside John Cleese and two colleagues in 1972.Sir Antony became an outspoken detractor of his former employer the BBC in his later years. In a report commissioned by the centre-right thinktank the Centre for Policy Studies in 2008, he recommended that the public broadcaster be radically slimmed down to just BBC One, Radio 4 and a news department. He has also criticised it for being “biased” on climate change, and accused staff of being “anti-industry” and “anti-monarchy”.Earlier this month, he reunited with Lynn on a new Yes Minister sketch inspired by Brexit for the Guardian. A representative said on Tuesday: “Sir Antony Jay CVO CBE died peacefully on Sunday evening after a long illness. He was surrounded by his wife and family.”This article was amended on 24 August 2016. A photograph which had been flipped before it was supplied to us was removed and replaced.