I had a meeting near Wall Street this week, half a block from the Charging Bull statue. I haven’t been down there for years; the last time I went was half a decade ago, to see a lawyer about suing my landlord. The site was mobbed, and I couldn’t see what I was looking for. Then the tourists parted and there she was, the Fearless Girl, now the subject of a complaint to the city.'Charging Bull' sculptor calls for New York to remove 'Fearless Girl' statue On first skimming the news story about the objection by the artist Arturo Di Modica, I assumed he had created the girl and was protesting about using her to promote Wall Street. Since being placed opposite the bull, on the eve of International Women’s Day, the Fearless Girl – hands on hips, ponytail swinging – has been the subject of a million concerned pieces about the misuse of art, the infantilisation of female ambition, and the kind of fraudulent feminism that promises little girls, if they work hard, they can grow up to be bankers.Anyway, that’s not what it was about. Di Modica made the bull, not the little girl, and was lobbying the city to recognise that, by adding the second figure, the meaning of his own artwork had been fatally distorted, and in this he wasn’t wrong.The Charging Bull, which was installed in 1987 to represent the indomitable American spirit after the stock market crash, now represents nothing of the sort. Instead, as it plays chicken with Little Miss Muffet over there, the bull is transformed into an ugly, snorting symbol of bigotry, which is trying to eliminate a child, no less. No wonder Di Modica is annoyed.My own objection to the Fearless Girl is less for political reasons than grounds of cuteness and the fact that it makes no sense whatsoever. Why is the dearth of women on Wall Street being symbolised with a child? What does she have to do with the economy? There’s also a visual laziness about the figure: she looks like Eloise, or Orphan Annie, or a 10-year-old auditioning for a talent show who is about to do the splits. The whole piece has about it the cliched air of a flower in the barrel of a gun. The bull, meanwhile, suddenly makes total sense.Success doesn’t suit the loserI watched Louis CK’s new show on Netflix this week, which has garnered muted reviews. It’s true; it’s slightly off. It doesn’t quite flow. The opening gag about abortion half-works, and the other half feels like something he came up with after writing “Abortion” at the top of a page and underlining it twice.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I found myself missing Louis CK’s old sloppy jeans and T-shirt look. He just isn’t as funny in a suit.’ Photograph: Cara Howe/NetflixMainly, it doesn’t work because Louis CK can’t make the kinds of jokes he used to make before he was successful. As he observed in his much better opening monologue on Saturday Night Live last week: “I’ve been doing stand-up comedy for 32 years, and it’s been going great for four years.” It’s a little unfair, but this puts the vast majority of his material out of his reach. He can’t do his losers-like-me schtick any more since he is no longer a loser, unless the way he’s being loserish is by abusing hotel staff. (A good joke in the SNL set). He can make fun of being uncomfortable with success. He can’t make fun of a guy passing him on the motorway in a rubbish car, and thinking: “Why don’t you just kill yourself?”He can’t wear certain things, either. The comedian’s new style is, perhaps, an honest sartorial reflection of his new status, but I found myself missing his old sloppy jeans and T-shirt look. He just isn’t as funny in a suit.Riding for a fallSummer-like weather in New York meant all the kids were suddenly on bikes. The safety paraphernalia was amazing. Helmets, knee pads, elbow pads – even a mouthguard. It made me nostalgic for being six and getting put in the wicker basket at the front of my dad’s lumbering butcher’s bike – no helmet, no steering as far as anyone could tell – and shambling around town at a terrifying 30 degree angle.In other ways, nothing changes and in spite of the precautions, the park was alive with the sound of a million small dramas. “Dylan, brake. Brake. Brake. BRAAAAAAAAKE!”