1 Chi-Raq (15) (Spike Lee, 2015, US) 127 mins.Ancient Greek comedy and Chicago gun violence make unlikely bedfellows, and they’re pretty much the only bedfellows in Lee’s energised, anything-goes satire. Lysistrata (Teyonah Parris) and her women refuse to have sex with their trigger-happy partners until the violence stops, in a film that careers from rap musical to bawdy comedy to fiery social drama.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 2 Moana (PG) (Ron Clements, John Musker, 2016, US) 113 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This year’s Frozen? A different climate but an equally classy mix with Disney’s latest, based on Polynesian myth and culture. Throwing together an independent-minded teen (don’t call her a princess) and a preening demigod (Dwayne Johnson), it’s a high-seas adventure with the requisite catchy songs, broad comedy and lush visuals.3 The Edge Of Seventeen (15) (Kelly Fremon Craig, 2016, US) 104 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This proficient teen movie does nothing radical but doesn’t put a foot wrong either. Nadine’s (Hailee Steinfeld) penchant for self-absorbed melodrama goes into overdrive when her best friend and her brother hook up, sucking everyone into a crisis that’s both hilarious and tender. Woody Harrelson as her teacher/confidante is the icing on the cake.4 Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them (12A) (David Yates, 2016, UK/US) 133 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Eddie Redmayne’s Potter-spun franchise-opener is of a similar crowd-pleasing standard, and the 1920s American setting creates opportunities for lavish production design and fresh performers, including Katherine Waterston, Colin Farrell and a suitcase full of creatures.5 Paterson (15) (Jim Jarmusch, 2016, US) 118 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Adam Driver plays a driver. Named Paterson. In Paterson, New Jersey. That seems entirely apt for a blank-verse kind of story musing on life and art and ennobling the every day. It’s virtually free from plot, or even drama, but full of personality, reflection and charm. That’s no mean feat.