I am sad to be told that there is once again an ex-SAS guy on the loose who might be enhancing the story when he tells of his adventures. SAS personnel are meant to keep their mouths shut when they return to civilian life, but those of us who have defied the odds often find it hard to clam up in the pub and television studio, two closely related structures in their capacity to unleash the power of reminiscence.I was seconded to the SAS only briefly, during the hunt for Saddam Hussein. But since I was the man who found him hiding down his hole, there was a lot of pressure on me to talk, and I was forced to reveal how I had tracked him over a thousand square miles of desert, following the tang of his excellent Cuban cigars. Most of the Arab men in that area smoke fake Crème Caramels, so the mission was a cinch. But I was reluctant to talk about it until Angelina said that, unless I came clean about my past, our relationship was off. I kept my mouth shut and she went with Brad.Anyway, the hunt for Saddam was only a subsidiary episode. Much more important was my long career with Australia’s SJS – the Special Jeep Squadron that spread despair among the Japanese navy in the last phase of the second world war. On the island of Luzon, they had run out of ships, but we, equally, had run out of Jeeps. It was hand-to-hand stuff all the way, in jungle crawling with giant insects. Fighting off the intimate attentions of a massive trouser crab, I suddenly found myself face to face with Emperor Hirohito.Clive James: ‘It occurred to me that I might be suffering from a sudden mental disturbance’ Fresh to the battle on his one and only combat mission of the war, the emperor was fast on his feet and must have thought that his judo would give him a quick victory. But I had been trained in unarmed fighting science by Mel Gibson, with whom I was at school. I was kneeling adroitly on the emperor’s chest when we were strafed by a squadron of Zeroes, running along the ground because the enemy was out of petrol, or gasoline, as we combat veterans call it when reminiscing in an American bar.Little did I know that it would be only a short time before I was doing that for a living, in a luxury bar just off the foyer of Trump Tower. Having been taught how to mix cocktails by Charles of the Ritz in the brief time that we were married, I was taciturnly relating how I gave Gorbachev the idea for glasnost, when I realised that my interlocutor was Trump himself. “You’ve made me aware,” he said, “that what counts is self-belief.”