Most fan theories are pretty dreadful. They largely involve mixing a left-field element of darkness into a childhood favorite in order to make stoners named Dave go “whoa” on your social media feed. (“Proof that Mr Rogers was a child molester”; “Why Homer Simpson has been in a coma since 1993!”)Some fan theories, however, make a remarkable amount of sense, even surpassing the actual plotlines their respective shows eventually came up with. Below are five such theories we kind of wish had become realities.Warning: spoilers (obviously)The Office: Toby was the Scranton Strangler       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Toby from The Office. Photograph: SuppliedFor many seasons, The Office crew followed the ongoing tale of a serial murderer stalking the streets of Scranton, Pennsylvania. The story mostly amounted to occasional gags and C-plots and never truly got the spotlight it deserved – especially given that the killer was probably under our noses in the Dunder Mifflin annex the entire time.Forget his troubled family life, spurned affections for Pam Beesley, and crisis of faith as a former man of the cloth: remember the sheer glee Toby Flenderson took in recounting multiple details of the trial of which he ended up the jury member? Frightening as it was, Toby only ever came alive when the Scranton Killer was on everyone’s lips.And if it sounds too fanciful and wacky for the low-key humor of The Office, remember that Toby eventually ended up in Costa Rica with both legs broken. The show definitely lost its grounded quality as it aged and Toby would have made an amazing – and completely logical – Scranton Strangler.Game of Thrones: the Lannister honey trap      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Talisa, centre: dubious back story. Photograph: HBOFour years ago, back when every deviation from the books was meticulously chronicled, fans of the HBO adaptation of Game of Thrones were baffled by the introduction of the character of Talisa into the plot. Not only did the role she play in the plot – untimely seducer of Robb Stark – belong to one Jeyne Westerling in the books, but her dubious backstory of being from the faraway land of Volantis, along with her constant writing of mysterious letters to her mother, left many suspicious. So much so that it was believed by many that she was a plant from the Lannisters, meant to infiltrate the Stark army in order to entice and distract budding King of the North Robb, a green boy without much romantic experience and in need of distraction from the horrors of war. And considering that he broke his promise to marry one of Walder Frey’s daughters in order to marry Talisa, which led to the Red Wedding and decimation of the northern army, it would have certainly been a great tactical move by mastermind Tywin Lannister. Unfortunately, that dummy just fell in love with the first person he slept with. Oh, Robb.Game of Thrones (again): Tywin poisoned Joffrey       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Gleeson as Joffrey Baratheon; Lena Headey as Cersei Lannister; Charles Dance as Tywin Lannister. Photograph: Damien Elliott/HBOSpeaking of the cunning Tywin Lannister, yet another solid theory about his tactical acumen revolves around the poisoning of his incest-born grandson, Joffrey Baratheon, on his wedding day. The real culprits (Littlefinger and Olenna Tyrell) were quickly revealed, but the idea that the pragmatic Tywin would poison his own grandchildren gained traction. First, getting rid of Joffrey meant that his malleable little brother, Tommen, would inherit the throne instead, allowing Tywin to continue to rule from the shadows. It also had the benefit of getting his loathed son Tyrion out of the way as he was immediately accused of the murder. It’s a theory even floated by the show itself as Tyrion ruminates on what might have befallen him. Unfortunately, Tywin fell just short of this level of machiavellian cunning and ended up dying on the toilet for it, in part due to his lack of foresight.Lost: yes, it was purgatory after all       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lost: caught between heaven and hell. Photograph: ABCThis one mostly speaks to the lackluster finale fans were actually given. After years of claiming that the survivors of Oceanic flight 815 were not dead and that the island was not purgatory … the show sort of went the purgatory route in its final season. After Juliet detonated a bomb, we were privy to a “flash sideways” exploring an alternate life for the characters had their planes never crashed and in which many of the deceased were still alive.The show’s mythos tipped over from intricate to biblical to a downright “yeahbuhwhat?” conclusion involving every deceased character meeting up in a non-denominational church. All these seemed to be done to complicate the much simpler narrative choice that would have been purgatory at that point. For many, the show’s conclusion reeked of “Eh, don’t worry about it. You’ve enjoyed the ride”, which is fine and good, but still underwhelming for a show that had always presented itself as an elegant and intricate puzzle. The alternative of a dangerous purgatory, where they had to earn their way into afterlife or risk damnation, would have been a cleaner, equally spiritually heavy explanation for the island.How I Met Your Mother: the mother was one of the unknown one-night stands      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   How I Met Your Mother: took a tragic turn. Photograph: Contract number (programme)/Channel 4 PicturesThis theory primarily relied on fans noticing that narrator Ted never actually called the mother his “wife”. They in turn began to believe that maybe the mother was just that: the kids’ biological mother. Some fans believed that narrator Ted was not telling the story to his children, but recalling his dubious history with the mother for himself. Fans began to look for recurring love interests that might return pregnant or with a bundle to dump at Ted’s feet. As things went on and Ted’s desire for a long-term relationship started to veer into creepiness, some even thought he was telling a cautionary tale to his children, warning them of the dangers of idealizing relationships as personal fulfillment and that it’s possible for something great (them) to come out of sheer chaos.Unfortunately, instead the show introduced a very likable mother nine years into its lifespan, only to have her die a tragic death and Ted end up with Robin once granted his grown children’s permission. This was all their father asking for permission to move on from widowhood with an old friend. Um, yeah. Needless to say, fans were nonplussed. Gossip Girl: they were all Gossip Girl      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gossip Girl, Gossip Girl, Gossip Girl … You get the idea. Photograph: Warner BrosThe CW show was the defining teen hit for a newer generation, raised to believe that the phone was the window into its owner’s soul. The concept of Gossip Girl revolves around a mysterious Kristen Bell-voiced blog chronicling the lives of New York’s Upper East Side elite. The mystery of who exactly Gossip Girl was weaved in and out of the show. At times, “Gossip Girl” was nothing more than a narrative device opening and closing each scene with quips. At other times, the blogger was a villain to be taken down. The show’s final season circled the wagons and decided to reveal who wielded the pen after all. So, after five years of sassy voiceovers, who was Gossip Girl? Dan Humphrey. Our romantic lead, who’d started the series as “the outsider” of the world Gossip Girl was chronicling. It makes some sense, if you squint very hard, however, considering the number of times Dan was seen receiving an anonymous text and gasping for the camera at knowledge he had presumably sent himself. It also had the after-effect of making our lead seem completely insane. A popular theory floated by fans was that there was never a single operator and that at various times everyone had gotten access to the site and acted as the destructive blogger. It was a less simple explanation that at least made a modicum of sense.