“I’m not really an impressionist,” claims Morgana Robinson, the offbeat mimic last seen as Pippa Middleton in Channel 4’s The Windsors. Her face, and the ease with which she inhabits the people she’s talking about, however, tell a different story. “I got Lumley in a week,” she continues. “I’d watched her every minute of the day and when I met her she was just as glorious as you’d expect. On the way home, I had this fantasy about us becoming friends, where we’d be out for lunch and she’d go…” – she assumes Joanna Lumley’s posh husk – “‘Dahling, can we have another bottle of… fuck it, let’s get some cocktails.’”Celebrities should beware: Robinson fishes out their tiniest mannerisms and sketches a sweary caricature from them. Her style borders on the ridiculous, owing more to the comic surrealism of Vic and Bob than Ronni Ancona’s slick impersonations. “It’s not classic mimicry,” she says. “I want to find that hidden something I can unveil. That’s what’s intriguing.”In her new BBC2 show, Morgana Robinson’s The Agency, she pulls together her favourite celeb intrigues for a fly-on-the-wall mockumentary. Hotshot agent Vincent Mann (Cavan Clerkin, AKA Karl from Pulling) is masterminding the careers of a rum bunch of stars, all played by Robinson. Russell Brand is finally building his “Utopia” just off the M25, Gregg Wallace is wielding his trademark spoon and Miranda Hart is all sad and desperate to be taken seriously.The cast of EastEnders was a particular well of inspiration. Robinson’s Natalie Cassidy is astutely observed, if her Danny Dyer is a little more on the Joe Swash side. But the comedy also comes from the wildly exaggerated, off-the-wall circumstances she puts them in. “Danny Dyer’s writing a kids’ book about a bear who likes a sniff and a drink,” she says. “There’s a sex tape involved.” Bake Off’s soon-to-depart hosts don’t get off lightly, either. “Mel and Sue live with Mel’s husband, but it’s very awkward because he’s clearly had enough of the bants.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robinson as Russell Brand. Photograph: Adam Lawrence/Happy TrampIt’s less spiky and more affectionate than her Channel 4 show, Very Important People, which Robinson admits had “more of a punch” than her BBC2 debut. She says reality-telly regular Amy Childs wasn’t impressed by Robinson’s portrayal of her as someone overly amazed by a camel. What gives The Agency a certain edge over VIP, however, is its warmth. Robinson has obvious love for her targets, which makes the whole thing even more funny. “I like everyone I do,” she says. “I’ll watch them until my eyes bleed.”Though she’s “always been obsessed with people”, she struggles to understand why anyone would want to know more about the person behind the impressions. But the real Morgana is extremely likable. Born in Australia, she moved to London as a child and in her 20s discovered the rock singer Brody Dalle was also her half sister. “We’re very close, even though I didn’t have her for half of my life,” she says.She’s dabbled in impressions since she was a child; her first one was a horse. She studied art, not drama, and spent years working as a waitress. Her break came when she gave a home-made showreel of her in a bad wig to starry agent John Noel, who immediately signed her up.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In those early days, Robinson used to hate interviews, preferring to hide behind funny voices, but now she has more perspective. “Being open is tough when you feel like everyone’s watching, but the older you get you realise you’re so unimportant in the scheme of things. It’s not Syria. It’s just a bloody TV show,” she says.Vic and Bob: 'Comedy is still an establishment thing' Those shows are now racking up. She has appeared in Toast Of London and House Of Fools, and coming next is an episode of Shearsmith and Pemberton comedy-horror anthology series Inside No 9. But while her star is on the rise, standalone shows such as The Agency are still the exception rather than the rule for women in comedy. “We’re still having to barge doors down,” she says. “There are amazing people like Julia Davis, Cariad Lloyd and Emma Sidi, but there’s still only room for a few of us.” It’s why, she says, The Agency is dominated by male scribes. “I’d love to have more female writers on the show, but it’s saturated with men.”Would she barge down a door to get the second series of The Agency commissioned? Robinson’s reaction is typically hilarious. “I had five hours in makeup to get Gregg Wallace’s bald head,” she says. “But if I get a second series I’ll do a Britney and shave it off.”Unleash the clippers: Morgana is ready to roll.Morgana Robinson’s The Agency starts Monday, 10pm, BBC2