Many are already calling it the theatrical event of the decade. Tonight, the first part of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child has its first preview at the Palace theatre in London. Set 19 years after the end of JK Rowling’s last Potter novel, the two-part play continues the story of Harry who is now working at the Ministry of Magic while his son Albus negotiates his own way through Hogwarts.JK Rowling: ‘Harry Potter’s world is always in my head’ With John Tiffany as director, Jack Thorne as writer and Steven Hoggett doing the movement, the play brings together the team behind the stage version of Let the Right One In. That show’s combination of a magical otherworldliness and a spine-tingling exploration of very real teenage angst should be an admirable fit with Harry Potter.Back in 2007, Harvard Business Review cited Harry Potter as a genius example of a product that matured with its customer base, thereby retaining them and ensuring that they keep buying through young adulthood and beyond. The only equivalent I can think of in theatre is Les Misérables, which stays the same but retains an audience. People often get taken to Les Mis as a child, then they might see it again as a young adult and then take their own kids to see it, so generating that repeat business which is so essential to keep a show afloat in the West End.The omens are good for the Cursed Child. The show is already almost entirely sold out for the foreseeable future, ticket prices are exorbitant on secondary ticketing websites and excitement from Potterheads is high. It won’t matter in the slightest what the critics say by the time they pronounce after the official opening on 30 July: social media will be giving the thumbs up or down this week, as audiences respond to the first previews.In the past we’ve seen shows such as Love Never Dies fall victim to early reaction on social media. Book of Mormon, however, very cleverly used social media to generate a real buzz around the show – enthusiastic tweets from celebrities and others were used on the show’s advertisements, ensuring its juggernaut momentum before the first reviews were in. Book of Mormon swiftly became a hot ticket and its critical response became an irrelevance. In the case of Harry Potter, the Book of Mormon approach is hardly necessary because Potter fans will ensure that it generates its own momentum. Like the most devoted sports fans, they are true believers. It’s why they keep adding their own reviews on Amazon years after the book was originally released. As Clay Shirky has observed about these reviews, they may seem unnecessary, but what they reflect is a desire to go to the waterhole or town square and tell everyone how much you love something. Their function is not transactional, to help sell more books, but a means of amplifying your love for them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter. Photograph: Allstar/WARNER BROS/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarYou only have to look at the 900-plus ratings that Harry Potter and the Cursed Child has on the Goodreads website, when so few people have actually seen the script, to see this phenomenon in action. In fact one of the most interesting aspects of The Cursed Child is that when it officially opens on 30 July, hundreds of thousands of people who have never been to the theatre or ever thought about reading a play will be devouring the story in playscript form.In the meantime, it seems that all involved in the stage show will have to muck things up pretty spectacularly for it to fail to please – and that’s unlikely, although I do wonder what it does to the creatives psychologically when they are working on a production in which they are keeper of the flame and also know that they’ve got a box-office hit on their hands before it has even begun. “I’m doing the best for them I can,” said Thorne about Potter fans. I’m sure he is, because it would be truly horrible if some of British theatre’s finest talent ended up being held responsible for ruining what many Potter fans believe represents childhood itself.