I started my national service in 1954, aged 19. I knew nothing about the army, not even which leg to start with when marching. I applied to be an officer and, after passing the tests, was sent on a training course. Most men came from public schools, but I had been to a grammar.It was eye-opening: three months of marching, weapons training, sleeping in barracks, making your bed for inspection and lots of polishing. We were once sent on a training camp on Woodbury Common, near Exmouth; we dug trenches and slept in them. I remember waking up covered in snow. I began to form friendships, though, and discovered that the way to survive was with humour.After a further four months of training at Eaton Hall, near Chester, I was posted to Ibadan, Nigeria, where I was seconded to the Royal West African Frontier Force, part of the 5th Queen’s Own regiment, for 15 months. I’d never been out of Europe. I remember the heat, and how different it all was.Nigeria was heading towards independence. All our troops were Nigerian. There were about 25 officers, all of whom were white, except Captain Babafemi Ogundipe, who subsequently became Nigeria’s high commissioner in the UK. Of those 25 officers, perhaps 11 were on national service.Much of my time was spent on routine duties, but I had a few adventures. One time, I led a convoy of six lorries into central Nigeria – a three-day drive – to meet up with another convoy. For five days, nothing happened. Finally, the convoy turned up; we must have exchanged whatever goods we were carrying, then we drove home.Another time, someone conceived the splendid idea that we should go on a three-week trek. We marched at night (it was too hot during the day) through swamps and grasslands; we slept in chapels, prisons or on the earth. I had dysentery beforehand, so the first few days were hell. By the end, I was as fit as I’ve ever been, but I’ve still got scars on my feet from the leeches.‘We had a riotous time’: Hugo Spowers with Nigella Lawson at an Oxford University party When the Queen’s visit was announced, we rehearsed her arrival at Ibadan station, with me performing the role of the Duke of Edinburgh. In this photograph, she is inspecting a guard of honour of the 5th Battalion, which greeted her on the platform. Next to her is one of my company commanders, Major Jack Hart, and I’m standing at attention on the far left, holding a sword. In my diary, I noted the Queen’s “ankle-length dress of greenish yellow”.Last September, when she became Britain’s longest-serving monarch, the Sunday Times published a supplement, and my grandson Adam spotted this picture. A few months later, for my 80th birthday, my family gave me a scrapbook with a page for every year of my life. That was the first time I saw the photograph. I was amazed. It all seems a very long time ago now.After the ceremony, there was a cocktail party given by the governor that turned into a free-for-all; a girl I knew walked off with the hat of a chief with 25 wives. National service had its moments.• Are you in a notable photograph? Email thatsme@theguardian.com