With technology poised to change the way we dress in the future, here are seven examples of innovative fabrics that take their cue from the natural world.Hooked on VelcroInvented in 1948, Velcro has become a textbook example of biomimicry – an emerging science that emulates nature to solve human problems. And yet Velcro's invention was something of a happy accident, for which we must thank the dog of Swiss inventor George de Mestral. After a walk in the fields, de Mestral noticed burrs stuck to his trousers and his dog's fur, which led to his creation of a new hook and loop fastening device, Velcro.Exploring the lotus effect    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Water spilled on a lotus leaf does not wet its surface but simply beads up and rolls off, cleaning its surface from accumulated dust and dirt in the process. This effect is known as "superhydrophobicity", which researchers have mimicked to create water-repellent and self-cleaning materials and fabrics. When your raincoat stays dry during a downpour or when a white dress repels a red wine stain, it is down to the lotus effect.Fast-as-a-shark swimsuit  American Olympic medalists Amanda Beard, left, Natalie Coughlin, right, and Michael Phelps in Speedo LZR Racer swimsuits. Photograph: Kathy Willens/Associated PressInspired by sharks' sandpaper-like skin that reduces drag in water, Speedo's Fastskin line of performance-enhancing swimwear was worn by swimmers from over 130 countries during the 2000 Sydney Olympics, setting 13 out of 15 world records.Worn by Michael Phelps and Rebecca Adlington in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the Speedo's LZR Racer, dubbed "the world's fastest swimsuit", was accused of "technological doping" and banned for use in competitive swimming in 2009. There is little doubt, however, that the planet's most agile swimmers have yet more to teach us – in fashion and beyond.Golden Orb spider silk cape  The golden cape took four years to create from the silk of 1.2m spiders. Photograph: suki dhanda for the ObserverAlthough humans learned to spin silk from silkworms as early as 3500 BC, spider silk was introduced much later, in 18th century France. Silk-weaving from spiders was encouraged by the French colonial government in Madagascar in late 19th century, but the tradition had all but died out until entrepreneur Nicholas Godley and textile expert Simon Peers revived it in 2012 by creating a silk cape made from the silk of 1.2 million Golden Orb spiders. Lightweight yet super-strong, spider silk is also being used to produce bulletproof clothing that is superior to Kevlar.Dye-free fabrics from butterflies   Morpho butterfly. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesMorpho butterflies' wings appear cobalt blue despite lacking colour pigment. This optical illusion is due to the many layers of protein on the scales of the butterflies' wings that refract light in different ways. In 2010, Australian designer Donna Sgro created a dress made from Morphotex – a fabric that imitates the microscopic structure of the wing using nanotechnology. This innovation also saves on water and energy used in conventional dyeing. Although Morphotex is no longer manufactured, butterflies' iridescent wings have inspired another technological breakthrough – displays for mobile phones and other electronic devices that can be viewed under any light conditions.Camouflage clothing from squid    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Squid, octopuses and other cephalopods are known for their ability to change the colour and texture of their skin. This is achieved by expanding or contracting their pigment-filled cells. By taking inspiration from these underwater colour shifters, scientists are taking the first steps towards developing self-camouflaging clothing that could be a boon to the military. Another feature of deep-ocean creatures that could be explored for fashion is bioluminescence, or ability to produce light – a perfect attribute for clothing to be worn anywhere from road works to rave parties.From crab shells to self-healing clothes  Crab. Photograph: AlamyMany materials found in nature – from crab shells to rhino horn – have an inbuilt ability to self-repair. Now researchers are looking at ways to produce "living materials" that could potentially be used to grow fabrics and create clothing that can repair itself if damaged.A prototype for such self-healing materials has been developed by scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) using modified E.coli bacteria. Meanwhile, chitosan found in crab shells is already being put to use to produce eco-friendly flame-resistant clothing suitable for firefighters' jackets and children's sleepwear.Nature's genius We've only scratched the surface of nature's infinite potential to provide solutions for smarter, stronger and more sustainable fabrics. To quote biomimicry pioneer Janine Benyus, "When we stare this deeply into nature's eyes, it takes our breath away, and in a good way, it bursts our bubble. We realise that all our inventions have already appeared in nature in a more elegant form and at a lot less cost to the planet."Xenya Cherny-Scanlon is a sustainable fashion professional. She blogs at Green Stilettos and tweets @xenya_chernyThe sustainable fashion hub is funded by H&M. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox