Born in Surrey, Terence Conran, 84, established the furnishing chain Habitat in 1964, and went on to open The Conran Shop in 1987. He has also launched more than 50 restaurants, including Bibendum and Boundary in London. In 1989, he founded The Design Museum, which reopens at a new site in London later this year. He has written more than 50 books; the latest is My Life In Design, which is published next month. He is married for the fourth time, has five children and lives in Berkshire and London.When were you happiest?At the opening of The Conran Shop in Michelin House: it took a long time to achieve.What is your greatest fear?Losing the sight in my right eye. I have been blind in my left eye since I was 13 – a metal splinter flew into it when I was making doll’s house furniture. Still, it got me out of National Service.What is your earliest memory?Aged two and a half, pulling a large tin of particularly virulent green paint out from under the sink. It landed on the terracotta tiles and burst open.What was your most embarrassing moment?When I was 18, I pulled a handkerchief rather rapidly from one of my pockets and out flew a condom into my mother’s frying pan. She said, “That won’t taste very nice.”What makes you unhappy?Sitting at a table when everybody is tapping at their mobile phone. It ruins conversation.What is your favourite smell?Roast snails filled with garlic.What did you want to be when you were growing up?A manufacturer of sporting guns.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Drinking marc de bourgogne.What do you owe your parents?They provided my sister Priscilla and me with a brilliant education, but they had to sell the family silver.To whom would you most like to say sorry, and why?My ex-wife Caroline, because she found my style of life rather irritating.What or who is the greatest love of your life?My present wife, Vicki.What does love feel like?All-embracing: when you find it, you don’t want to let it go.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Charles Eames, Barack Obama, Leonardo da Vinci, Norman Foster, James Dyson and my dead old chum Eduardo Paolozzi. When you get to my age, you lose a friend every week.What is the worst job you’ve done?When I was 19, I washed up in the basement of a Paris restaurant that stank of rotted food. I did it for six months, until I was promoted to vegetable boy.What has been your biggest disappointment?Merging my company with BHS – it was a great mistake.Donny Osmond: ‘What is my screensaver? Me and my waxwork’ How do you relax?Sitting in the vegetable garden with a glass of wine and a cigar.How often do you have sex?When I wasn’t suffering with my back problems and the number of pills I have to take, at least twice a week.What song would you like played at your funeral?I have asked a fireworks company to put my ashes in a collection of rockets, so I think the right tune is Handel’s firework music.Tell us a secretI don’t have any secrets: I discuss everything with my wife, and she discusses it with her girlfriends.