Patti Smith has just wrapped up her final tour of Australia, giving the kind of visceral performances that prove the silver-maned septuagenarian is still the reigning queen of punk.In her two-week lap of the east coast, the New York-based singer, poet and author stared down the bronchial problems that she says will prevent her travelling this far again, performing her seminal 1975 debut album Horses in its entirety, vandalising guitars, raging against Trump and the slow-motion destruction of the Great Barrier Reef, projectile spitting her way through shows and castigating fans who dared to pay more attention to their phones than to her and her band. She cut a formidable figure in her signature monochrome outfit as she stalked the stage in the chunkiest pair of black boots this side of the 90s.Patti Smith: ‘You decide your fate. Are you going to fall apart or own it?’ Her last appearance in Australia, titled In Her Own Words – part of the Talk and Ideas program at the Sydney Opera House – was a chance to see another side of Smith: the mother, the lover, the widow, the child, the dreamer. The solo performance saw her end the tour the same way she began her career – as a lone artist, reciting poetry, telling stories, breaking into song.A sequence of photographs projected behind told of her life with “two of my favourite men” – collaborator and photographer Robert Mapplethorpe and her late husband Fred “Sonic” Smith – as she related tender anecdotes and read passages from her acclaimed memoirs, Just Kids and M Train. The packed auditorium heard about the heady New York night she got together with Mapplethorpe, the normalcy of her domestic life with Fred in Michigan and the time Allen Ginsberg tried to pick her up before realising the androgynous-looking Smith was not in fact a “pretty boy”.Smith was at once warm, funny, nervous and self-deprecating. She revealed how “sad” and insecure she felt when, after Fred died, shots of white began to streak her jet-black hair. She later had a vision of a grinning Jerry Garcia shaking his white tresses at her, which made her laugh and come to terms with ageing; it also inspired the song Grateful.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Patti Smith backed by a photograph of her younger self taken by her former lover and collaborator Robert Mapplethorpe. Photograph: Sydney Opera HouseAt 70, Smith’s lust for life is palpable, as though she is imbued with the energy of all her loved ones who have made premature departures. The day of her appearance in Sydney, she said, she ticked off two items on her bucket list: her childhood dream to be an opera singer and seeing Uluru. Getting to perform in “the great [Joan Sutherland] opera hall” was as good as filling the first brief and just that morning she had woken up at 5am to do her fourth Uluru tour in two days (“I just fell in love with the rock!”). She said she still had clumps of red earth in her hair and mud on her boots – “I didn’t wash it off; I didn’t think Joan Sutherland would mind.”Why we’re still obsessed with the 1970s New York of Lou Reed and Patti Smith With visions of the immense Australian outback in our heads, and a giant photograph of the enigmatic young Mapplethorpe gazing out across the auditorium, Smith then treated us to an intoxicating acoustic version of Beneath the Southern Cross: “To greet lame / The inspired sky / Amazed to stumble / Where gods get lost / Beneath / The Southern Cross.”The night wrapped up with Smith giving the audience a chance to fulfil their own opera hall-singing dreams, inviting us to join her in an a cappella version of her hit Because the Night, with its spirited refrain: “Because the night belongs to us.” It was a sweet and inclusive finale to a show that was as much about connection as recollection – but the night truly did belong to her alone. 