People often have a deep attachment to their shoes – much deeper than to any item of clothing. A well-worn, much loved pair almost becomes a part of you. We use shoes to express who we are, and we make snap judgments about others based on their footwear. For some actors, such as Beryl Reid, building a character is a process that begins with the shoes.Last year, when well-wishers brought piles of shoes to Budapest train station, it was more than just a practical gesture in the face of Europe’s greatest refugee crisis since the second world war. It was a symbolic way of saying “I’m with you every step of the way” to those tramping across Europe.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Everyone has got a story they want to tell’ … A Mile in My Shoes. Photograph: Kate RaworthWe’ve all, at some time or another, announced that we wouldn’t like to be in someone else’s shoes. But this month, in a free event as part of the London international festival of theatre, you can find out what it might be like. A Mile in My Shoes, created by Clare Patey and co-commissioned by Arts Admin as part of an ongoing project, The Empathy Museum, invites audiences to enter what looks like both a giant shoebox and a shoe shop, situated by North Greenwich tube. You will be greeted by a shop assistant who will ask you for the size of your feet, measure them if necessary, and then fit you with a pair of shoes belonging to a stranger. The only thing that you will know about the person who owns the shoes is their name.Then you will be given some headphones and an MP3 player and will set out on a mile-long walk to the river and back listening to story of the person who owns the shoes. They could be a pair of waders belonging to a sewage worker, the tottering high heels of a drag queen, the sturdy boots of a diamond miner, or the threadbare footwear of a refugee. The stories could be dramatic – such as surviving a shark attack – but many are everyday accounts. As Patey says: “Everyone has got a story they want to tell.”“All I’ve done is take the metaphor … and turn it into a physical reality,” she observes. “It’s unexpectedly intimate. The physical element is an important part of the experience because every time you look down you don’t recognise your feet. It changes the way you walk.”The piece also, she hopes, changes the way you see the world as you hear a stranger’s story unfold while you are wearing their footwear. “It’s not a passive experience. It’s about radical listening. One of the things that neuroscientists using MRI scanning have discovered is that when a storyteller and a listener really engage with each other, the neural patterns in their brains start to mirror each other.” As the Mahabharata tells us about storytelling: “If you listen carefully, at the end you’ll be someone else.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It’s about radical listening’ … A Mile in My Shoes. Photograph: Kate RaworthIn 2013, Barack Obama gave a speech arguing that the “empathy deficit” in American life was just as urgent an issue as the federal deficit. Patey agrees that empathy is lacking – and that it can be transformative. She wonders if the government’s dispute with junior doctors may have played out differently if Jeremy Hunt had walked a mile in their shoes. This version of the piece – previously seen in Vauxhall, south London, and Perth in Australia and shortly heading to Beirut, Lisbon and São Paulo – will include stories of those working in the NHS, from a hospital imam to a psychiatrist and neurosurgeon. A Mile in My Shoes is like a rolling stone, collecting stories wherever it goes.The idea for an “empathy museum” was dreamed up by Roman Krznaric, author of Empathy: Why It Matters, and How to Get It. He approached Patey with the idea after experiencing some of her pop-up museums that have included the Museum of Me, in which visitors were invited to curate mini museums of themselves in tin cans (there were 35,000 of these mini time capsules, now all archived), and the Museum of Emotions which, unlike traditional museums that value objects, valued feelings and created spaces that evoked them and where they could be expressed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clare Patey: ‘It really does change you’ Photograph: Tim MitchellPatey hopes that Empathy Museum will eventually consist of several installations that will operate like an alternative high street. You will be able to consider bereavement and grief in the funeral parlour, or maybe feast and famine in the cafe, although for the time being only the shoe shop and the library are operating. The latter, called A Thousand and One Books, will be based next to the shoe shop in North Greenwich, allowing members of the public to choose a book that is someone else’s favourite and which they have donated or paid for, and which includes a fly sheet in which the donor explains why they love it. Readers can take the book away, add their own thoughts and pass it on.Like A Mile in My Shoes, it’s another way of trying to see and experience the world through someone else’s eyes. So has working on the project made Patey more empathetic? She laughs. “As soon as you do anything around empathy you open yourself up to criticism that you lack empathy. I’m no saint. But in meeting all these extraordinary people from so many different backgrounds it’s made me confront my own prejudices and made me far less judgmental. The rise of social media means that increasingly we only communicate with people who look and sound and think in the same way we do. A Mile in My Shoes is a chance to spend some time with someone we might not otherwise meet in our day-to-day life and spend a few minutes seeing the world from that person’s perspective. It really does change you.”• A Mile in My Shoes is outside the NOW Gallery, Peninsula Square, Greenwich Peninsula, London, from 11 June to 2 July.