Kano, On tourContemporaries such as Wiley have had a love-hate relationship with the mainstream, and have now reverted to a raw “grime revival”. Kano, AKA East Ham’s Kane Robinson, has never bothered the charts in quite the same way, but after the strangely operatic tone of his last album, 2010’s Method To The Maadness, you get the feeling that he’s not taken much persuading to return to a style that privileges bars over production for his latest release, Made In The Manor. Kept onboard is pal Damon Albarn, with whom Kano regularly swaps guest appearances, but otherwise it’s all appealingly no frills.Concorde 2, Brighton, Wed; Waterfront, Norwich, Thu; The Marble Factory, Bristol, Fri JRDIIV, Birmingham & LondonGuitars, modelling assignments, hard drugs, police raids: from the core elements alone, one might possibly imagine we were talking about the imperial years of messrs Jagger and Richards. In fact, all this seems to be de rigueur for today’s iteration of the indie band. Much like ex-Girls frontman Christopher Owens, who makes crystalline and precisely articulated guitar music in the throes of personal debauch, the innocent breeziness of DIIV’s retro rock is in striking contrast with the recent exploits of singer Zachary Cole Smith. For a certain type of listener, this decadent legend might be encouragement enough to get behind the band. Really, though, DIIV are principally worth investigating for their blend of clean guitars and quietly insistent tunes. Their obligatorily troubled second album Is The Is Are deals more in mystique than melody, but is reminiscent at times of MBV and particularly the Cure.O2 Institute Birmingham, Thu; Heaven, WC2, FriJREllie Goulding, On tour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ellie GouldingIndie crooners looking to embrace electropop could do worse than follow Ellie Goulding’s lead. A strong singer-songwriter with a not unattainably cool image, she’s managed to conquer the mainstream without turning into a super-stylised robot. This is world-class arena pop with all the drama, fireworks, podiums and backup dancers that the genre requires, but it is also recognisably hers: she sings and plays actual instruments, throwing herself clumpily into dance routines. This is Goulding’s USP: as someone who made a name for herself as a writer and featured artist first, her growth as a solo performer is the kind of duckling-swan story that people like to get behind, an upbeat tale that’s surely at the root of her appeal.Sheffield Arena, Sat; Motorpoint Arena, Nottingham, Sun; First Direct Arena, Leeds, Tue; Metro Radio Arena, Newcastle upon Tyne, Wed; The SSE Hydro, Glasgow, Fri; touring to 25 MarJRSoft Machine, On tourBack in the 1970s, Soft Machine dominated the Canterbury psychedelic scene alongside the likes of Hatfield And The North with an improv-heavy style and malleable lineup. The group pictured below are a tangential reformation that sprouted around a decade ago, boasting the same roots as the original trippy prog-jazz influencers, and featuring many of its original members. Previously operating as Soft Machine Legacy under the leadership of guitarist John Etheridge, the band seem to have lost the Legacy qualifier somewhere along the way, reverting to their original moniker of late. Three veteran members – drummer John Marshall, bass player Roy Babbington and Etheridge – are joined by sax, flute and keyboard player Theo Travis for a run of six UK dates, beginning at Friday’s fourth annual HRH Prog festival in north-west Wales, where their Kent contemporaries Caravan also play.Hafan Y Môr Holiday Park, Fri, touring to 1 Apr JAMelody Gardot, Bristol      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Melody GardotPhiladelphia-born Melody Gardot spent 2004 in hospital bed recovering from brain damage after her bike was hit by a car. Music therapy and sheer grit led her to write her first EP, before going on to find 00s stardom purring million-selling love songs. Last year, the singer took on a new, tougher persona as the frontwoman of a rugged blues and soul band, and also tackled themes including racism, poverty and life on the margins in a new album, Currency Of Man. As she brings this compelling agenda to the opening night of this year’s Bristol jazz and blues festival (various venues, to 20 Mar), expect a funky, eccentric, blues-steeped show, and a world-class curtain-raiser for the weekend. Colston Hall, FriJFGeorge Benjamin, LondonGeorge Benjamin’s music is superbly crafted, each piece meticulously planned and realised in the finest detail. As such, the performance of a new work by the composer is a major event. This UK premiere of his latest, Dream Of The Song – a song cycle for counter-tenor, female voices and orchestra – provides the starting point for a two-day focus on his music at the Barbican. First performed in Amsterdam last autumn, it sets texts by three poets closely associated with Granada in southern Spain. It’s Benjamin’s first work since his 2012 opera Written On Skin, and was composed for the counter-tenor Bejun Mehta, who created the role of the Boy in that work. This time it will be sung by Iestyn Davies, while the following evening Benjamin himself will conduct the Mahler Chamber Orchestra in a concert performance of Written On Skin.  Barbican Hall, EC2, Fri & 19 MarAC