Garth Greenwell’s debut novel What Belongs to You, released last week, has already been described as “the great gay novel of our times”. The book follows a young, unnamed American narrator teaching in an American high school in Bulgaria, who is estranged from his father and who longs for a stable life with a steady boyfriend. Instead, he becomes obsessed with Mitko, a sex worker he meets cruising in a toilet. Greenwell wrote the novel while teaching in Bulgaria himself, though he says the book is fiction and “the narrator is not me”.Greenwell is unabashedly a “queer writer”, one who is interested in articulating a specifically gay experience. But Greenwell’s novel is among a vanguard of books (including A Little Life by Hanya Yanagihara, Maggie Nelson’s The Argonauts and the rediscovery of Eileen Myles) concerned with the lives of LGBT people now being widely reviewed and discussed.In the book Greenwell recreates the jet-lag-like feeling of an American abroad for the reader, at once restless and sleepy, anxious but alert. There is a European literary quality to the way he transports the reader to Bulgaria, reminiscent of Kazuo Ishiguro’s The Unconsoled or Milan Kundera’s The Unbearable Lightness of Being. That said, Greenwell’s exquisitely detailed writing has a distinctly American directness to it. Especially when he first introduces characters, there is a Dashiell Hammett-style forthrightness and clarity to it.This is a novel very much about “cruising”. We don’t talk about cruising much in the age of apps and as the national conversation on gay life has turned to marriage equality.There’s this sort of scrubbed, PR vision of gay life, the marriage equality vision of gay life. I am glad that this vision exists because it opened a space and possibility that didn’t exist before. Marriage equality was an important battle, and I think that it’s tragic that the battle came at the cost of other issues in which lives are at stake. I think it’s very dangerous that it shut down other possibilities of gay life.Cruising has been central in my life since I was 14 years old. It was the first gay community I found in the pre-global internet in Louisville, Kentucky, where I grew up. I do think “community” is the right word for those places, which have not disappeared. When I found this cruising bathroom in Bulgaria where the novel begins, I immediately knew what it was. I barely spoke Bulgarian, but I descended into this place, and I suddenly had a complete fluency.These are places that are treated very dismissively, and very disdainfully, and they’re places of such human richness, and places that humans have human encounters. Of all kinds! They meet other people, and they get robbed and assaulted, and they have encounters where other people are nothing more than instruments. They are human places, where I have had at times what feels like as genuine an intimacy as any time in my life. I wanted to write about these places, to show they are full of dignity as much as shame. You deal really well with the informality of sex work. When I was writing about ballroom drag and homeless queer teen communities, I was surprised to learn that so much sex work is really informal. A kid goes home with someone because they want a place to sleep for the night. They want to eat whatever they find in the fridge. They hope to get a few bucks when they leave.Mitko never calls himself a prostitute. He uses the word priyateli, which is Bulgarian for friend. It also means boyfriend. That’s the space that the relationship between the narrator and Mitko occupies, and that’s what interested me: this relationship that’s formed by sex work. In that first scene, Mitko says to give me money and I will give you sex. But when people engage in these interactions, they’re still human beings on both sides. Sex work is a frame that forms and deforms and qualifies these two people but it does not exhaust their encounters.One thing that really interested me is the way you portray a segregated ghetto of sorts. The gays haven’t sorted themselves economically into the same-sex marriage types far removed from street hustlers.Cruising spaces can be spaces of exploration and empathy. You see this in two great nonfiction books, George Chauncey’s Gay New York and Mark Gevisser’s Lost and Found in Johannesburg. As a novelist, I am interested in the radical potential of these spaces. Desire gets scrambled.If you go cruising in one of those bookstores on Eighth Avenue in New York City, you’ll find businessmen and rent boys and construction guys from the site down the street and students from Columbia. I believe in that romantic tradition that [poet and activist] Audre Lorde had: that eros is this extraordinary tool to connect across difference, that creates possibility for looking at each other across great wounds of privilege.Do you think gay men are lonely? Or lonelier than anyone else?I don’t know. I think gay life is changing quickly. Growing up in Kentucky, I was taught lessons about my life that I will never be able to unlearn. And even as I reject those lessons, and see that they are false, I will never get to be someone who wasn’t taught those lessons. I do think gay men, and queer people in general, are still really wrestling with those lessons about their lives. And those lessons leave wounds. For the narrator of my novel, he has been wounded in a way that makes it very difficult to make himself available to himself or to other people.You capture longing so well in this book - the longing for the father’s body when he withdraws when he understands his son is gay, the longing for straight friends who pull away.I think queer people have a particular relationship with longing. It seems to me that desire often carries with it a kind of permission: that if I want something, I should be able to grab it. It’s a terrible way to operate in the world. But queer desire, the first lesson is exclusion.Do you think straight readers will recognize this longing, too? What has long been considered universal has been straight, white and male written for straight white people. I don’t feel like I understand the mechanism, but I believe really strongly that whatever universal value literature has arises through the particular. Toni Morrison is a writer for all humankind. But as she said, bless her, she’s writing for black readers. You build bridges across difference to arrive at the universal through describing the particular. I’m a queer writer writing in the queer literary tradition for queer people. And because of those things, I hope this is a book for anyone.