Eddie the EagleEddie the Eagle is likely the smallest film to get a Super Bowl spot this year. It’s therefore fitting that the trailer for the feel-good sports comedy starring Hugh Jackman and Taron Egerton of Kingsman: The Secret Service, takes an admirably low-key and heartfelt approach by featuring a trip of famous NFL athletes (Kurt Warner, Russell Wilson and Drew Brees) praising the film’s depiction of athletic life, instead of showcasing Jackman in action. Inspired by true events, Eddie the Eagle centers on Michael ‘Eddie’ Edwards (Egerton), a British ski-jumper who made an improbable and historic showing at the 1988 Calgary Winter Olympics; Jackman plays Eddie’s coach. Think of it as this year’s equivalent to Cool Runnings, with less fish-out-of-water laughs, or more star power.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Deadpool“See you this Friday, America,” deadpans Ryan Reynolds as the wise-cracking superhero at the end of the action-packed and irreverent spot for Deadpool. The Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw called it a “shriekingly self-aware and very violent super-antihero Marvel vehicle” in his four-star review – and by the looks of the trailer, Bradshaw is right on the money.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Captain America: Civil WarThe most anticipated Super Bowl film spot doesn’t disappoint, with new footage sure to send Marvel fans into a tizzy – notably including a first glimpse of Paul Rudd’s Ant-Man back in action, following his solo outing last summer. As teased in the first trailer that debuted in November, despite ostensibly being a Captain America film, this latest installment is in actuality a third Avengers film that pits Robert Downey Jr’s Iron Man against Chris Evans’ idealistic Cap. Scarlett Johansson looks to factor into the action in a big way as Black Widow – she’s joined by returning players Elizabeth Olsen (as Scarlet Witch), Paul Bettany (as Vision) and Jeremy Renner (as Hawkeye), as well as Chadwick Boseman, making his first anticipated appearance as Black Panther (the character is getting a standalone feature in 2018, directed by Creed film-maker Ryan Coogler).    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 10 Cloverfield LaneJJ Abrams loves to tease. The producer/film-maker is up to his baiting games with a new trailer for 10 Cloverfield Lane – that pretty much confirms it’s indeed a sequel of sorts to 2008’s monster pic, Cloverfield, without stating as much. The first teaser, which debuted in January, alluded to a mysterious threat lurking beyond an underground bunker where a young woman (Elizabeth Winstead) is holed up with a paranoid man (John Goodman). The loud roar that erupts late in this new spot sounds just like the monster sounds made by the Godzilla-like creature from Cloverfield. Although the beast isn’t glimpsed, you can bet it’s back wreaking havoc.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Jungle BookThe animals do all the talking in this new extended spot for the upcoming live-action take on Rudyard Kipling’s classic children’s story. There’s something admittedly odd about watching photo-realistic-looking animals speak in everyday vernacular. Unlike in Babe, the humans that factor into The Jungle Book can actually converse with the animals that populate the tale. And Disney has made sure to make all the animal voices familiar ones – look out for Christopher Walken as an orangutan, and Scarlett Johansson as a slithery serpent.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jason BourneMatt Damon is back as super-spy Jason Bourne, in his fourth Bourne film, aptly titled ... Jason Bourne. Given the teaser’s extremely brief 30-second running time, it’s unclear what causes Bourne to resurface. That said, the wall-to-wall action promises muscular entertainment, with Damon looking beefier than ever (fast-forward to the 25-second mark to see the impressive fruits of his labor). Current ‘it girl’ Alicia Vikander is rumored to play a pivotal role in the film, but only her voice makes an appearance in this spot.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the ShadowsThe crime-fighting mutants are indeed out of the shadows in the latest trailer for this sequel to the Michael Bay-produced revamp of the franchise that overcame middling reviews to do solid business in 2014. With their identities now revealed, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo and Donatello are seen comfortably roaming the streets of New York to defend its citizens from new CGI foes, including Bebop and Rocksteady. And not to fear: Megan Fox is back as April O’Neil, gracing us with her midriff.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Independence Day: ResurgenceIndependence Day will always be fondly remembered as the movie that blew up the White House in spectacular fashion. Its belated sequel, Independence Day: Resurgence, seems hellbent on upping the ante by obliterating the entire world. Opening fittingly at a football game, it’s only a matter of seconds before all hell breaks loose, with the evil aliens from the first film back to take over our planet. Will Smith sat this installment out – but it’s good to see Jeff Goldblum back, lending surprising gravitas to his few seconds of screen time. “What goes up, must come down,” he intones. Indeed.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Alice Through the Looking GlassCritics mostly savaged Tim Burton’s Alice in Wonderland, but that didn’t keep audiences from flocking to it in 2010, making it a bonafide sensation, grossing over $1bn worldwide. Its inevitable sequel sees Burton hand the reigns over to Muppets Most Wanted director James Bobin, but judging by the new Super Bowl promo, you wouldn’t know it – the garish, CGI-augmented palette of the first film is back, along with Johnny Depp hamming it up as the Mad Hatter. You’ve been warned.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest X-Men: ApocalypseThe latest preview for X-Men: Apocalypse does its title proud, delivering awe-inspiring destruction on a colossal scale. New villain Apocalypse (played under mounds of blue prosthetics by Oscar Isaac) pops up to battle the mutants, but it’s Jennifer Lawrence who gets the most screen time as the shape-shifting Mystique. Olivia Munn, as Apocalypse’s right-hand gal Psylocke, makes a hell of a first impression, hurling down from the sky like a sexy demon from above.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Secret Life of PetsSo what exactly is The Secret Life of Pets, the latest from the makers behind Despicable Me, about? Judging by this fun but fleeting spot: not much. To get a sense of the film’s freewheeling plot, watch the earlier trailer that was released in January. Its Super Bowl tease is essentially a stream of silly gags, including dogs conversing with each other’s behinds. Strictly for the children.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 