“Dear Mr AlHaj,” reads the letter crowned with its majestic White House letterhead and ornate signature by Barack Obama.“Folk and traditional arts are fundamental to our nation’s rich creative history, bridging differences and revealing our common humanity.” The letter continues: “I hope you take pride in the ways your accomplishments are now imprinted on the landscape of American art.”'Trump doesn't care about culture': how will his presidency affect the arts? But now, Rahim AlHaj, the Iraqi musician who received the National Heritage Fellowship, has to cancel part of his forthcoming tour due to Trump’s travel ban, which refuses entry from seven predominantly Muslim countries (Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen) for 90 days; it also poses a threat for Muslim visa holders and legal residents.As AlHaj gears up for his biggest tour yet, one of his musicians, Iranian santoor player Sourena Sefati, who lives in Albuquerque, only has a green card. “Now we have to cancel all the international concerts because I’m not sure they will let him come back into the United States,” said AlHaj, who had planned to play eight concerts abroad. “It’s absolutely absurd, we should know better in this country.”AlHaj, an American citizen who was born in Baghdad and has lived in the US since 2000, thinks a lot has changed since receiving his award in 2015. “President Obama sent me this beautiful letter,” he laughs, “saying how great it is that I’m enriching this country, now I’m abandoned to do any culture. As an American, now I’m forbidden to leave my country? Jesus.”The ban has left many other artists in a tight spot. Syrian clarinetist Kinan Azmeh, who has lived in New York City for 16 years, is on tour in the Middle East and cannot return home until the ban is lifted. The Iranian sculptor Shahpour Pouyan, who is slated to show in Hong Kong this March, can’t leave the country. And the Oscar-nominated Iranian film-maker Asghar Farhadi can’t fly in to attend the Oscars, where his feature The Salesman is nominated for best foreign film and lead actor, Taraneh Alidoosti, has boycotted the Oscars in protest of Trump’s visa ban (activists are planning a screening of Farhadi’s film outside the US embassy in London on 26 February).Kurdish film-maker Hussein Hassan, who has an Iraqi passport, was told there was a problem with his US visa application to attend the North American premiere of his film The Dark Wind, at the Miami film festival in March. “He withdrew his application to travel to the film festival,” said the film’s producer Mehmet Aktas. “Hussein Hassan is the most important director in Iraq, in Kurdistan. He always tries to make movies that bring tolerance to his country and across the world.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Omar Souleyman performing in Athens, Georgia. Photograph: Chris McKay/Getty ImagesBut not everyone is willing to back down. Syrian wedding singer turned pop star Omar Souleyman is slated to play a gig in New York City on 11 May. “We have absolutely no plans to cancel anything,” he said. “The New York date is only one of many dates planned for just May, the rest have simply not yet been announced but they will be shortly. We have only plans to fight this and win.”Eman El-Husseini, a Kuwaiti-born Palestinian Canadian comedian who has been living in New York City with a green card since April, traveled into the US on 28 January, shortly after the travel ban was announced. She was detained for roughly an hour, had her fingerprints taken and was then released. But with border control officers vetting social media accounts, she had to take extra precautions.Late-night hosts on Trump's travel ban: 'He can really get a lot of stuff undone' “I deactivated my Facebook and Twitter accounts while traveling just in case they went through it,” she said. “It’s not easy being Muslim and traveling all the time.”El-Husseini, an outspoken Trump critic who makes most of her living headlining comedy shows across Canada, is slotted to perform in Montreal on 17 February. “I have to think twice if it’s worth going back home and risk that I won’t be able to come back into America,” said El-Husseini. “My green card status is questionable because I am Muslim, rather than feeling safe wherever I go. I might be forced to move back to Canada.”Dean Obeidallah, a Muslim comedian of Palestinian-Italian descent based in New York City, is known for hosting the Muslim Funny Fest, America’s only Muslim-focused comedy festival. It fosters what Obeidallah calls comedic resistance. “I believe comedy is using punchlines, mocking Trump and exposing some of the hypocrisy and lies that makes people laugh,” he said. “I hope Trump can make America laugh again – but at his expense.”Obeidallah also hosts the Big Brown Comedy Hour, which features Middle Eastern, Persian and south Asian comedians. “It’s a very serious time for our community right now,” he said. “People want to laugh, it’s really empowering. My dad was a Palestinian refugee. If Trump was in power, I would not be here myself.”