Tony Blackburn became one of the BBC’s best-known radio presenters in a career spanning six decades.The 73-year-old has had a string of high-profile presenting jobs, including being the first DJ to broadcast on Radio 1 when it launched in September 1967.He spent 17 years at the station.Tony Blackburn says he will take legal action against BBC after alleged sacking Apart from his music knowledge, Blackburn has been a household favourite with his traditional weak jokes, his perma-tan and his knack of coming across as a friendly eternal teenager.He made his first radio appearance on Radio Caroline South in 1964, then joined Radio London two years later before spinning the first disc on Radio 1 a year after that. He was also one of the launch presenters on Capital Gold.He has also hosted Radio 2’s Pick of the Pops, shows on BBC London 94.9, BBC Radio Berkshire, the Magic network, BBC3CR and KMFM. He was given the Radio Academy’s lifetime achievement gold award, for 50 years in broadcasting.In a 2014 TV interview with Piers Morgan, Blackburn said it is a “sin” that Jimmy Savile will not pay for his crimes.Blackburn, who worked with Savile at Radio 1 for many years, said none of his colleagues “liked him particularly”, adding: “He was an oddball. I didn’t like him as a person. It was always this silly Jimmy Savile. He never talked to you in a normal way.“There were always rumours about him but I never saw him do anything wrong. I didn’t realise how bad he was.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony Blackburn on I’m a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! in 2002. Photograph: Rex FeaturesBlackburn won the ITV reality show I’m a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! in 2002.His TV work also includes Top of the Pops and Noel’s House Party.Blackburn also had a moderately successful career as a recording artist in the late 60s/ early 70s when he released three albums.He managed to get to number 31 with So Much Love in 1967 and number 42 with It’s Only Love in 1969.Born in Guildford, Surrey, the son of a doctor, he was educated at Millfield School in Somerset, and Bournemouth College.He married actor Tessa Wyatt in 1972. They later divorced.Blackburn married his second wife, Debbie, in 1992. She had been a chorus girl in a pantomime he had starred in a decade earlier.He has two children: Simon and Victoria.