Over the weekend, the Mayor of London launched the night tube as part of plan to run 24-hour public transport on weekends. It’s a fantastic initiative – if you want people to go out at night, they need safe and easy options to get home.What we’ve seen in Sydney is that the problems start when transport options don’t exist and crowds are left stranded out on the streets. With buses parked for the night and train stations inexplicably shut, nights out in Sydney have traditionally descended into pitched battle for cabs or long walks home. Services like Uber and GoCatch have increased the options, but they’re not cheap.We’ve been urging successive state governments to run trains 24-hours for nearly a decade. In fact, we’ve either implemented or advocated for a number of night-time policy measures other global cities are now getting plaudits for. But in Sydney, it’s the state government, not the City Council, that has power to make the key changes.Protesters in Lucy Turnbull masks block controversial WestConnex road project In 2011, we began a two-year program of extensive consultation and detailed research to develop OPEN Sydney, our strategy to boost Sydney’s night-time economy. We looked at the way people move around the city, using heat mapping to identify hot spots in Kings Cross and the city centre, consulted with residents, venues, emergency services and others, and built a deep understanding of the way people use our city at night. The resulting strategy laid out more than 250 actions, including late-night transport, improvements to basic facilities like toilets and lighting in public spaces, and initiatives to increase the range of late-night options available, such as small bars and live music venues.It’s based on the idea that having more options at night creates a safer, more balanced late-night economy, which attracts a wider range of people. And it takes into consideration the thousands of people who start or finish work late to keep our global city running 24/7, too.Many actions from the OPEN Sydney strategy have now been incorporated into our routine work: we’ve led Sydney’s small bar revolution and introduced food trucks, upgraded taxi ranks and improved wayfinding, increased CCTV, developed (and are now implementing) a live music action plan, and funded late night ambassadors to help people find the places or services they need.But the big changes to our night-time economy depend on the NSW government: running public transport 24-hours; replacing lifetime liquor licenses with renewable liquor licences, as in New York and Vancouver, that encourage better behaviour from venues; and new measures to manage venue growth and concentration, including the introduction of new “saturation zone” rules, that consider the number and type of licensed premises in a given area, along with relevant crime data and transport options.Two and a half years ago, there was a real problem in Kings Cross and the government implemented a blanket response. Alcohol-related violence had to be addressed – I had been calling for action by successive Labor and Liberal governments for years – but there were better alternatives than lockouts.It’s a fact that lockouts have hurt Sydney’s cultural life and led to the loss of jobs and the shutdown of businesses, including live music venues, small bars and restaurants. It was a sledgehammer when what we needed was a well-researched, evidence-based, flexible response using transport, planning, licensing and police.But all that may be about to change. The NSW government’s Liquor Law Review is due any day now. As part of the review, the government hosted three roundtables and the report and action plan produced by participants including the city, includes many of the actions we proposed in OPEN Sydney. The action plan includes developing a night-time economy master plan for Sydney, a trial of late night public transport until 4am on Friday and Saturday nights, targeted measures to increase safety in public spaces including using vacant or underused spaces for things like markets, live music or light/art installations, new late night options including pop-up performances, and food and retail attractions.'Racists aren't welcome here!': how we kicked a racist passenger off the bus | Andrea Myles It’s a promising start but we need bold action to stem the damage caused by the lockouts to our night-time economy – and that’s exactly what we’re now calling for: An end to the 1:30am lockouts for well-managed licensed premises, an increase in small bars patron capacity to 120 to make them viable, and reconsideration of the “last drinks” rule on a case by case basis, based on compliance, planning and environmental and social conditions.  We want a safe late-night economy with different options for people of all ages to go out and enjoy themselves after dark, without the blood-soaked, drunken punch-ups on the street. London, New York, Paris and even Melbourne are renowned for their thriving and exciting night-time economies and it’s why so many people visit those cities. It’s time Sydney was, too.Clover Moore is the Lord Mayor of Sydney.