In some ways Lord Harewood’s last hour at Edinburgh has been his finest, for one of the central themes of his final festival has been the music of Pierre Boulez. To have brought this fountainhead of the avant-garde to Edinburgh and to have presented an unprecedented range of his fascinating yet bewildering compositions was an act of courage and perspicacity of the sort that is all too rare in our musical life (viz., the enervating mists of the oncoming London concert season).Why Boulez and why the excitement? For those of us who have over the past week had the good fortune to encounter him as composer, conductor and pianist, on TV and at a Press conference, these questions need no answer. It is not hard to see how so superbly equipped a musician, a mind so penetrating and wittily incisive and a character that carries such effortless authority has come to assume a commanding position in the musical avant-garde.Potent encounterBut Boulez’s position derives primarily from his music. Much of it fascinates and enthrals me. There is no point in pretending that I understand it as I understand Mozart or Schoenberg. Yet again and again over the past week it has yielded moments of inner excitement. They have not been of long duration and I cannot account for them rationally, yet I recognise them as symptoms of an encounter with creative potency. To put it crudely, they tell me there is something there. My difficulty is that I cannot say exactly what.Perhaps that is not quite as silly as it sounds. I think that critics, who in their anxiety to explain their reactions talk about Boulez-in terms of his predecessors, who invoke a succession of Debussy, Webern, Messiaen and thus Boulez, rather as one might say Beethoven, Wagner, Brahms and thus Schoenberg, are missing the most important (and obvious) thing about him: that whereas Schoenberg came before the deluge, Boulez comes after it. Whereas Schoenberg was trying to withstand that deluge, Boulez accepts it as his starting-point. I suspect he was trying to indicate something of this sort when, speaking on TV of his youthful years at the Paris Conservatoire at the end of the war, he remarked, “At that time there was nothing. That was our great chance.” And as soon as the two great figures of inter-war music began to reassert their influence, Boulez revolted against it. As a student, he booed the neo-classical scores of Stravinsky, just as some years later, as Schoenberg’s 12-tone works were coming to be regarded as the path to the future, it was again Boulez who, for very similar reasons, announced in an article that gave great offence to the faithful that “Schoenberg est mort.” Twenty years ago Stravinsky and Schoenberg seemed to represent two warring musical continents. Today we can see that, though their means were different; their aims were similar. Both were trying to up-hold a collapsing syntax. Boulez accepts that collapse and its implications.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pierre Boulez at the Edinburgh Festival, September 1965. Photograph: David Newell Smith for the ObserverEvery composer of worth is, of course, compounded of the past and the future as well as of the present, and as the years go by Boulez’s debt to the past will no doubt grow more apparent, though it is worth noting that it is precisely the non-traditional aspects of Debussy, Webern and Messiaen that primarily appeal to him. But at this moment, it is more useful to regard him as be-longing to the future.That way one is at least spared the effort of trying to find traditional development of ideas in his music. These are present in the imitative counterpoint of parts of the early (1946) Flute Sonatina, admirably played at Edinburgh by Severino Gazzelloni and Margaret Kitchin, in brief passages of the Second Piano Sonata (1948), which had an authoritative interpreter in Yvonne Loriod, and even perhaps in the Webernian fragmentation of the “Livre pour Quatuor “ (1950). But since then Boulez’s path has been very much his own.Maturer musicIt is difficult to say just what has taken the place of traditional thinking in his maturer music. In the early fifties he led the way, in baffling works like the first book of “Structures,” into the world of total serialism. But whereas a large part of his Gadarene flock careered down those arid, slopes with drunken abandon and have never been seen since, Boulez himself with cat-like cunning withdrew at the last moment and surfaced with “Le Marteau sans maitre” (1954), in which his special brand of lyricism had its first flowering.A few years later much the same thing happened with the movement towards indeterminacy. Having done so much to put music in a serial straitjacket, Boulez in 1957 assumed the mantle of Sir Galahad and in an article called “Alea” announced its liberation through the reintroduction of chance. But whereas many of his followers took this as an invitation to plunge into the inanities of Dada, and so far as I know are still busy on the nursery floor, Boulez once again took what he needed and withdrew to dry land.Indeed I wonder how seriously he lakes his theoretical essays. Creators have a tendency to generalise from their needs of the moment, and Boulez is probably no exception. At all events serial and aleatoric techniques both play a part in his vast “Pli selon pli,” whose performance by the North German Radio Orchestra and the remarkably talented Halina Lukumska has been the high-point of the week.Key of the door?Boulez has been at work on this score for some eight years, and, although still perhaps not in its final form, it stands as a summa of his achievements to date. Cast in five sections with three central vocal “improvisations,” “Pli selon pli” is described as “a portrait of Mallarmé,” and a good deal of ink has flowed in attempts to establish some sort of correspondence between the poet’s techniques and the form of Boulez’s score. If the key to the work lies here, I can only report that I have not yet been able to turn the lock.In any conventional meaning of the word, I do not “understand” “Pli selon pli.” On a superficial level it certainly has plenty to offer. I enjoy the graceful vocal melisma of the improvisations; and at each hearing the colours and textures that Boulez draws from a huge orchestra - in which an unconventional layout of conventional instruments is supported by a prodigious array of percussion that gives the score its characteristic palette, something between latter-day Messiaen and the Oriental gamelang orchestra - seem not only more striking and original but more subtle and precise.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pierre Boulez conducts Pli Selon pli. via YouTubeBut I do not grasp what logic gives the work its sense of direction. At most, I perceive the force of individual sentences, and that no doubt, is why parts of it sound monotonous. Yet at moments I was spellbound, and not merely by the sound. The notes themselves commanded attention. And although in whole episodes meaning eluded me, the sum of those passages in which shape and sense loomed through the clouds left an overwhelming impression.I cannot for the life of me say why, but I am convinced that “Pli selon pli” is an important work, different in essence from the arbitrary effusions of so much advanced doodling, and crucial in the music of our time. Only the years will show whether I have dimly perceived something of importance, or whether, as one colleague bluntly asserted, I am deceiving myself.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Observer, 5 September 1965.