And then there were four. This was always going to happen. As we wave goodbye to Judge Rinder, we’re left with the last predictable quartet for the semi-final: Ore, Danny, Louise and Claudia. Now the real work starts, as they have the best part of five days to master two new dances.Overall this weekend was a weird one. The show could not have been more lavish. The dancing was at one of the highest levels it has ever been at this stage of the contest. And yet it was somehow lacking in heart. They’re tired, perhaps. Plus I’m biased. I love musicals – but I hate Musicals Week. There was definitely an Ed Balls-shaped hole in the show. (Although could we have faced him as the Phantom of the Opera, which is what, surely, would have happened?) To replace his entertainment value, a terrifying opening number, featuring a cast of thousands, a pearly king Bruno not playing the piano and Anton auditioning to be Brucie. Meanwhile poor Judge Rinder has been on borrowed time for a while. I had high hopes for him after his spectacular, unforgettable performance to Mercy in week one. But he’s been in a tricky position for a while, doing his best but not quite able to match the Olympians and entertainers around him. I had hoped he might bring a tad more wit and vitriol to the series, but he’s clearly been keeping his mouth shut for tactical reasons. Hopefully he’ll let rip on It Takes Two.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Been on borrowed time for a while … Judge Rinder. Photograph: Guy Levy/BBC/PAIndividual verdicts? Louise: great progress but stop looking down! Ore: accomplished but needs to find the wow factor again. Claudia: Olympian application but must find heart and soul. Danny: faultless but give him better songs. Rinder: it was his time. To be honest, though, it was hard to judge anyone this week as they were all overshadowed by the ridiculous blow-the-budget production values of Musicals Week. I so disagreed with Len about the backing dancers in Danny Mac’s number. They didn’t enhance it; they made it look like a front-facing conga. The contestants are the stars – let’s see them dance without the extras. Grumpiness aside, it’s now so close that I wonder if the final might ultimately be won on who has the best partnership. At the moment that looks like Danny and Oti, who are overcoming the prejudice about his previous dance experience and supposedly irritating perfection by developing a connection which translates beautifully on screen. (Not that kind of connection, guys! They are both in a relationship. We will not mention the Curse of Strictly.)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Need to find the wow factor again … Ore and Joanne. Photograph: Guy Levy/BBC/PASo who’s out next week? Statistically it looks like Ore, going on previous number of dance-offs. Although Claudia could also be vulnerable. My prediction for the final? It’s too close to call, though I would say Danny and Louise are guaranteed a place. But what do the judges think?Darcey: woman of a thousand hairstylesDarcey was a bit distracted this week. They’re all tired, dancers and judges alike, I think. Vitamin C tablets all round. “Very different ballroom genre and everything,” she told Ore. (What?) The usual over-praising of Louise: “You became Calamity Jane!” She did, but she also looked down throughout. And the usual under-marking of Claudia: “Not enough character.” Darcey’s winner? Danny.Bruno: the jack-in-the-box      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Yee-hee!’ … Bruno’s verdict on Louise and Kevin’s Calamity Jane performance. Photograph: Guy Levy/BBC/PABruno was the only person who was really awake this week. Possibly too awake when he started comparing poor Claudia to “my friend Mel B” and pretending he was in a Spice Girls video. Classic quarter-final Brunoisms? “Willy Wonder!” “That dreamboat of a tango could run for years for what I’m concerned.” (Let us change the English language so that we all say this.) And, my favourite, to Louise: “Yee-hee!” Quite right! Who needs “Yee-ha!” Bruno’s winner? All of them.Len: the diamond geezer on a farewell tour“Willy Wonka, it’s a stonker!” Len was in a suspiciously good mood this week. It was like he couldn’t quite be bothered to be picky. Or maybe he’s saving it up for the semi-final. My conspiracy theory take is that the judges know how much money the producers spend on theme weeks and they go easy on the criticism to prevent any hissy fits. Why so generous to Rinder, for example? “A joy to behold!” (It really wasn’t.) “There were just a few foot issues ...” Len is, however, the only person who tells it like it is with Louise, criticising the balance of dance content versus musical content. Len’s ultimate 10? It has to be Danny.Craig: the great choreographer trapped inside a pantomime dameNice Craig is out in full force now, beaming his way to the final, hoping for that coveted place as Head Judge. (Just my little theory.) This series, he has found a way of voicing his criticisms in a more constructive, less panto way. He still has the eagle eye of Darth Vader, but the helmet is off. To Ore: “Balance issues.” (Ah yes, that’s what it was.) To Claudia: “You’re still spotting the floor.” To Danny: “Fix your heel leads.” I have always been a Craig fan but this year I like him more than ever. Craig’s winner? Danny and only Danny. 