Born in Buckinghamshire, Tim Rice, 72, is a lyricist. In the 60s, he teamed up with Andrew Lloyd Webber and wrote the hit musicals Joseph And The Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat, Jesus Christ Superstar and Evita. Later Rice collaborated with Elton John on The Lion King, winning an Oscar for Can You Feel The Love Tonight in 1995. Rice has written the theme song for the film The Time Of Their Lives, which stars Joan Collins and Pauline Collins. He has four children aged 41, 39, 17 and five months, and seven grandchildren. He divides his time between London, Cornwall and Scotland.When were you happiest?When I was seven. I remember it as a golden time, long gone.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?A pathetic desire to be liked.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Blokes wearing shorts in the middle of winter.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought?A painting by Tamara de Lempicka.What is your most treasured possession?For a long time it was my boxer dog, Tasha. My collection of Wisden Almanacks would be high on the list.What makes you unhappy?Time moving too quickly.What do you most dislike about your appearance?An overall gradual decline.Who would play you in the film of your life?Mel Smith, but dear Mel has died, so Anthony Andrews.What is your favourite word?Paradise.What or who is the greatest love of your life?Beyond any doubt, my children.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?Bernard Levin, a famous critic and brilliant writer, went to Evita and said it was the worst evening he had spent in the theatre and indeed the worst evening he’d ever spent out of the theatre.What is top of your bucket list?I always wanted to swim the Channel, which is insane. I would like to write a play.What is your guiltiest pleasure?I love watching Pointless.What do you owe your parents?My father said once when I was 13, “Perhaps the best reason to be British is because Shakespeare was British.” I thought that was a bit bonkers. But he was dead right.What was the best kiss of your life?My first one, in 1961. Who? I suspect she reads the Guardian so she’ll know.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Eva Perón, Jesus, Elvis, the cricketer Don Bradman, the Everly Brothers, Barbara Stanwyck, Machiavelli and Socrates.What is the worst job you’ve done?I worked in a petrol station on the A1 one summer. I enjoyed it except when I was on latrine duty.Singer Gary Barlow: ‘Worst thing anyone’s said to me? Never come back’ If you could edit your past, what would you change?I would definitely change the way one or two relationships ended.How often do you have sex?As often as I’m required to.What do you consider your greatest achievement?Possibly the fact that some of the stuff I’ve written will still be around after I’ve snuffed it.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?That you are more like other people than you think; you are not uniquely brilliant or beautiful.