I almost yearn for the days when 80% of a garment’s ecological impact was down to the phosphates and optical brighteners in detergent. Oh, and climate emissions from the energy used to heat the water.Cleaning up all that was straightforward: turn the machine down to 30C and use an eco detergent.But now there’s another laundry menace in town: microfibres (defined as particles under 5mm). According to research by Plymouth University, washing 6kg of clothes can result in anything between 137,951 fibres (for polyester-cotton clothes) to 728,789 fibres (for acrylic clothes) released as oceanic pollution.A study from Plymouth Marine Laboratory, confirmed that microfibres evading sewage treatment works can be ingested by fish larvae. Scientists are studying the effects of this on the food chain, but it’s unlikely to be positive.In terms of plastic fibre volume, a city the size of Berlin may be responsible for releasing the equivalent of 540,000 plastic bags’ worth of them into the ocean daily.That sounds overwhelming, but the more natural fibres you wear (such as cotton), the better. Frequently washed items should be non-synthetic where possible.Microfibre filters for washing machines are in development. Meanwhile, ecologist Dr Mark Browne (one of the first scientists to identify the problem) is working on Benign by Design, a programme to develop synthetic textiles that do not shed.At the moment, the most viable solution is a mesh laundry bag that slips into your washing machine, courtesy of Guppy Friend. Ingeniously simple, it’s made from microfilter material that its inventors claim captures 99% of fibres released in the washing process. What are you waiting for?The big picture: finding life in dead wood      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tree of life: dead wood supports other living species Photograph: PTESThere’s no such thing as dead wood, according to the People’s Trust for Endangered Species (PTES). Dead wood is more alive than you think, supporting a huge variety of species, including fungi and insects. A new conservation project aims to bring this home, starting with Suffolk woodland. Fill in this simple survey to help assess the condition of these habitats (ptes.org/campaigns/wood-pasture-parkland).Well dressed: Green People skin and hair care      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Nothing diluted or bulked out’: Green People products.With the rise of the clean beauty movement it can be difficult navigating the plethora of products out there that claim to be natural and organic.Green People, celebrating 20 years in the business, is the real deal. This is the brand that defined what it means to be organic.Back in 1999, founder Charlotte Vøhtz, was invited to be on a committee for the Soil Association (the UK body with the most stringent organic certification) to design the first standards for organic beauty.Vøhtz’s drive to create her truly organic skincare range began when her young daughter Sandra was battling multiple skin allergies and eczema. Now her brand offers 160 sustainable skin and hair products (including two special anniversary ranges), but nothing that has been diluted or bulked out with high levels of water, drying alcohol or synthetic fillers.Green People orange blossom and damask rose anniversary ranges from £15, greenpeople.co.uk (10% of net profit is donated to charities)Email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle