Nine months have passed since David Bowie’s death, but his last collaborator, Donny McCaslin, still has to pause when he talks about it. “There’s so much emotion,” McCaslin says, the words catching in his throat. “It’s devastating.” McCaslin speaks about his experience with Bowie sitting in 55 Bar, the micro Greenwich Village jazz club where Bowie first heard the musician perform back in 2014. Shortly after seeing that show, Bowie chose McCaslin’s band to back him on his final album, the acclaimed, jazz-fusion leaning Blackstar. McCaslin vividly remembers the night Bowie came to the club to check him out. “I was definitely nervous,” the saxophonist said. “I glanced up and saw where he was sitting. I just tried to keep myself grounded and not think about it. But the pressure was on.”Even so, McCaslin says his band “were going for it. It wasn’t a watered-down version of what we do. Afterwards Bowie said: ‘Wow, that was really loud!’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Clearly, he liked it that way, because a few days later, Bowie emailed the musician to ask if his band would work with him on what would be his last release, an album that turned out to be one of his most adventurous. The experience of creating music with Bowie proved so deep, and its aftermath so jarring, that McCaslin decided to turn his new album, Beyond Now, out 14 October, into a tribute. It includes several transformative covers of Bowie songs, including Warszawa from Low, and A Small Plot of Land from Outside, along with a song McCaslin wrote inspired by a piece Bowie left off Blackstar. (That track, plus two other cuts that didn’t make that release, will come out on 21 October on the cast album from the musical Bowie wrote in his last year, Lazarus). McCaslin knew his Bowie salute had to be special. “I wanted the depth of my experience with him, and the impact on my life, to be reflected,” he said. “I was digging deep on every take to get the gravitas I felt it should have.”At the same time, Beyond Now shows growth in McCaslin’s own sound. The 40-year-old musician, born in northern California, has released a dozen albums, dating back to 1998. His father was a musician, a vibraphonist, whose band McCaslin performed with at the age of 12. By high school, McCaslin had a group of his own, one accomplished enough to play the Monterey jazz festival. His early albums mined acoustic jazz, but on 2010’s Perpetual Motion he sifted in elements of electronica. “I had started listening to albums by Squarepusher, Skrillex, Boards of Canada,” he said. “There’s this vibe with electronica, this busy rhythmic activity. The framework of it speaks to me.”The new sound brought McCaslin fresh acclaim. In the last few years, he has been nominated for three Grammys. Two of those nominations came from contributions he made to recordings by Maria Schneider, an acclaimed jazz composer and band leader who, over the years, earned Bowie’s respect and friendship. It was she who suggested Bowie use McCaslin on a recording in 2014, the fierce song Sue (or In a Season of Crime), which Bowie later released as a limited-edition single, and which later turned up on Blackstar. The next month, Schneider brought Bowie down to see what McCaslin could do live at 55 Bar, sealing his interest.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In early 2015, formal work on Blackstar began, with longtime Bowie ally Tony Visconti acting as producer. “Working with Donny’s band in the studio was a dream,” said Visconti. “What I like about Donny and his musicians is that they are very cultured jazz musicians but young enough to embrace the extremes of pop and rock. They are ‘one-take’ players. There are no mistakes, just expert playing.” At the time, McCaslin had limited knowledge of Bowie’s full catalogue of songs. While he calls Let’s Dance “the soundtrack of my youth”, he knew few of his other hits or deep album tracks. To prepare for Blackstar, McCaslin started to check them out, but Bowie quickly dissuaded him. “He sent me an email saying, essentially, ‘That’s old stuff. I’m into different things now,” McCaslin said. “At age 68, Bowie was moving forward.”For Blackstar, that meant giving McCaslin’s band nearly free rein. “He set the tone from the beginning,” the saxophonist said. “He told us: ‘Whatever you hear, I want you to go with it.’ He said ‘great’ to everything.”At the same time, McCaslin couldn’t tell anyone outside of his immediate family about the project. Bowie had the band sign non-disclosure agreements, the better to keep the album a secret until he was ready to release it. At the same time, Bowie was aware he had cancer, which was an even more closely guarded secret. McCaslin politely demurs when asked if he knew the star was sick during the recording process. “He was so private,” he said. “I want to honor his wishes that we not talk about it.”At the time, McCaslin wasn’t even sure the music he cut with Bowie would come out or, if it did, how much of his band’s efforts would make the ultimate cut. It wasn’t until late last fall, when a British journalist asked to interview the musician for a story about a new Bowie album, that he found out about its impending release and heard its final form.On 8 January, Blackstar finally appeared. Two days later came news of Bowie’s death and, suddenly, everyone wanted to talk to McCaslin. “I wasn’t prepped,” he said. “I didn’t know what to say.”He gave a few interviews, talking only about the music. Then, journalists started to get nosier about the details of Bowie’s illness and demise, and McCaslin shut down. He also began to fully experience his grief. “We had this amazing connection,” he said, “and then he was gone.”Part of the healing process involved channeling his feelings into the music on his new album. Besides the Bowie influence, McCaslin drew again on electronica, covering songs by Mutemath and Deadmau5. The music also shows the influence of 70s fusion, a style which McCaslin calls “part of the musical DNA I grew up with”.Two weeks after Bowie’s death, McCaslin’s band paid tribute to him at The Village Vanguard by performing his moody, 70s song Warszawa. “There was so much grief; we talked about the best way to pay tribute,” he said. “That song has a sense of wonder to me. It’s such a beautiful melody. It felt cathartic to play it.”McCaslin says the experience of working with Bowie the year before brought a new intimacy to all the players in his group. “It got us to a deeper level of expression,” he said.When discussing the fact that his band will forever be linked with Bowie, McCaslin chokes up again. “For me to be associated with him is really special,” he says. “I don’t think that negates anything I’ve done prior, or what comes in the future.“With this album, I feel like I’ve done what I needed to do,” he says. “Now I can start thinking about what’s next.”