Female architects have spoken out about suffering sexism at work following the death of Zaha Hadid, the international star architect who said her stratospheric career came in spite of discrimination.The shock death of the 65-year-old designer in Miami on Thursday has brought renewed focus on the chronic lack of female representation in the profession’s upper ranks in the UK.By the time of her death, Hadid was one of the most celebrated architects in the world and by far the most successful British female architect. She developed a practice with more than 200 employees and worked across the globe, but despite her success there remains relatively few prominent female-led firms in the UK.Zaha Hadid's 10 best buildings in pictures In February, Hadid complained she had been “judged a lot more harshly because I am a woman” and said that breaking through that barrier had been “a long struggle”. A total of 76% of all architects in Britain are men and women drop out in large numbers. Last year 46% of undergraduates starting architecture degrees in the UK were women but only 24% registered architects are women.Eva Jiřičná, a former president of the Architectural Association in London and close friend of Hadid, paid tribute on Friday to “the best architect” and said: “I don’t think any man could actually compete with her.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Norman Foster said Hadid was ‘an architect of immense stature and global significance’. Photograph: Myung Jung Kim/PA ArchiveBut she said it remains more difficult for a woman than a man to get a job and to be paid the same.“A client of ours said to me he didn’t want any of my female colleagues to work on his project,” she said. “It was completely incomprehensible.”Hadid was commissioned more abroad than in the UK, where she described herself as not inside the establishment but “on the kind of edge … dangling there”. She said she also felt excluded from male-dominated networking at places like golf clubs.Alison Brooks, who runs her own practice, won the Stirling prize for the building of the year in 2008, praised Hadid as “a beacon of intelligence and invention”. “I think Zaha was right that women have to work harder than men to prove themselves,” she said. “There is a shortage of women architects at the top of the profession and running their own practices in the UK.”Brooks told how one consultant on a hotel project found out she had a nine-month-old child and told her: “Oh, but a mother should be at home with her children.”“You can’t believe the words emanating from their mouths,” she said. A survey by the Architectural Review magazine found 61% of women architects claim to have been the victim of gender discrimination and four out of 10 said their bosses were responsible. In the wake of Hadid’s death from a heart attack after suffering bronchitis, most of the leading architects paying tribute were inevitably men. Zaha Hadid: creator of ambitious wonders – and a fair share of blunders Norman Foster, the architect of the “gherkin” skyscraper in London and Wembley stadium, said Hadid was a close friend and “an architect of immense stature and global significance”.He told the Guardian he sympathised with Hadid’s feelings that she had been affected by discrimination but said “it is perhaps easy to overplay that”.“Whether it was 100% or 50% true, it is not necessarily, for some people, a bad thing,” he said. “It is almost a greater spur to be stronger as a consequence of it. Quite a lot of architects, regardless of gender, have found it easier to become more established in other countries and perhaps later in their homeland. That was true of us, Richard [Rogers], David Chipperfield – and I think it is true of Zaha.” Frank Gehry, the architect of the Guggenheim gallery in Bilbao, described Hadid as “one of the guys”.“[That’s] sexist in its own way I suppose,” he told Time magazine. “I don’t mean it that way. She was undaunted by all the stuff that would be against a woman coming into a field at that level. She didn’t pay attention to it … She was very confident.”Jiřičná confirmed that Hadid “hated” being considered a female architect rather than just an architect.“I don’t think any man could actually compete with her,” Jiřičná said. “If we can eliminate the practice of talking about female architects, it would be the greatest tribute we could give her.”Sheila O’Donnell, an Irish architect and one of just four women to win the Royal Gold Medal for architecture in its 168-year history, saluted the “incredible strength, talent and drive” of Hadid, who won the prize this year.“I think the business of not being part of the golf club scene is quite important,” O’Donnell said. “We are not part of that and so we have sometimes felt it is hard to get on because we weren’t moving in those business circles.”Jiřičná said Hadid had seemed ill for some time before she died and had cancelled engagements, complaining of tiredness. She had flown to Miami in an attempt to recharge.“I could see she was running out of energy and running out of physical strength,” Jiřičná said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Zaha Hadid in her own words and designs – video