The Olympics are a rare moment in time when the world comes together in a celebration of human potential. The most compelling stories are the David and Goliath matches, like the 1980 "Miracle on Ice", where the US ice hockey team beat the nearly undefeated Soviets 4-3, and then went on to win the gold. These achievements, often in the face of overwhelming obstacles, lift us and remind us of what is possible.Now we face another compelling international challenge, one which threatens all sports, particularly the winter Games: climate change. And, like all great athletic contests, we are our toughest opponents. But just like we did on that rink in 1980, we can prevail – with great courage, effort and skill.The short-term sacrifices we'll make in order to meet this challenge pale in comparison to both the payback and the cost of ignoring the threat. A recent study estimated that the cost of climate change to the US alone will be $271bn per year by 2025, and more than $1.8tn per year by the end of the century. The threats to national security and human health are even more profound. No aspect of society is untouched, including sports.The roots of my sport are in the frozen ponds, lakes, and rivers of North America. Though I grew up in Philadelphia, I skated outdoors as much as possible. But things have changed since I began skating; today, these same ponds, lakes and rivers are freezing later and melting earlier. Ice that lasts throughout the winter is, for the most part, a thing of the past. A recent McGill University study suggested that climate change may cause natural ice to disappear altogether, even across Canada, where some rinks now use expensive, artificial ice.Now, every four years, winter Olympians ask: will there be enough snow? In 2011, the World Cup downhill in Europe was cancelled for lack of snow. Scientific projections say that, at best, 10 out of the past 19 host locations are climatically viable to hold future Olympics.But it's not a problem just for ice hockey and skiing. Extreme heat will continue to present huge hurdles for endurance sports; in short, every outdoor sport is at risk. Our leaders are beginning to take notice: in November, representatives from every major American sports league – NBA, WNBA, NHL, NFL, MLB, and the US Olympic Committee (USOC) – met with Congress to discuss how climate change will affect the future of these sports – and to urge stronger action. As Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey points out:  Whether it's the slow death of pond hockey or increasing heat for football practices, global warming is negatively affecting the games we play and the sports we love.Why, then, is our country is considering an energy project that could have a huge impact on winter sports by accelerating global climate change?President Obama will soon decide whether to approve the final section of the Keystone XL pipeline, which will pump the world's dirtiest fuel from the tar sands of Alberta, Canada to refineries in Houston, where it will be shipped overseas. The tar sands industry is already the fastest growing source of global warming pollution in Canada; each barrel of tar sands oil generates three times more global warming pollution than conventional oil. That's a staggering amount of carbon. To make matters worse, producing this dirty oil requires clear-cutting giant swaths of ancient forest, sucking up water from rivers, and leaving behind lakes of toxic waste so large they can be seen from space. The diluted bitumen mixture that will be pumped through Keystone XL is superheated, highly corrosive and therefore more likely to spill. Worse, industry lacks the technology to clean up once it does. Workers are still working to contain tar sands from the US's largest inland oil spill in Kalamazoo, Michigan – and it's been over three years. The proposed pipeline route crosses the most sensitive parts of our heartland, including the Ogalla aquifer – the water source for America's breadbasket. How many permanent jobs will Keystone XL pipeline generate? According to the State Department: 50.A foreign, private company using eminent domain to ram through a project that will, if completed, in the words of NASA scientist James Hansen, mean "game over" for the climate makes no sense. President Obama himself promised to reject Keystone XL if it cannot pass the "climate test". He must tell the world that we are serious about fighting climate change and helping American clean energy technologies thrive. If he does, we just might be able to save the winter games we love and set a new course for this nation we cherish.We are quite literally on thin ice. This is a critical moment, and the decisions we make now will lock us into a climactic trajectory forever. The odds are against us, but we can overcome this challenge. We don't need another study. We don't need to get smarter. We just have to find the courage to say no to dirty fossil fuels. It's time for another miracle.