News broke yesterday that Johnny Depp will play former LAPD detective Russell Poole in a film adaptation of the 2002 true-crime book LAbyrinth, which advanced Poole’s controversial theories about the still-unsolved murders of Tupac Shakur and Notorious BIG (Christopher Wallace).This isn’t the first time author Randall Sullivan’s book has been tapped for the big screen. In 2003 Sylvester Stallone announced plans to star, write and direct a project based on LAbyrinth, but nothing came of it. So why the Depp project now? And who is Russell Poole? Straight Outta Compton: hit biopic raps up NWA story cleanly The first answer is that hip-hop films are all the rage, following the success of last year’s NWA biopic Straight Outta Compton, which grossed over $200m worldwide. A new movie about Tupac – with a $45m budget – comes out 11 November, called All Eyez on Me, and an Ol’ Dirty Bastard biopic starring Michael K Williams is also in the works.As for Russell Poole, following Wallace’s 1997 murder in Los Angeles, he grew convinced that the Los Angeles police department itself was guilty. He believed cops named Rafael Perez and David Mack were in cahoots with Tupac’s label Death Row Records (Wallace’s arch enemies), and that a friend of Mack’s named Harry Billups had pulled the trigger. When LAPD put the brakes on his investigation in 1999, he resigned. His conspiratorial views informed both LAbyrinth and a 2002 documentary by the British film-maker Nick Broomfield called Biggie & Tupac. Poole also joined forces with Voletta Wallace, Notorious BIG’s mother, in an unsuccessful lawsuit against the department alleging wrongful death.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Johnny Depp. Photograph: Paul Buck/EPAAs for Tupac’s 1996 drive-by murder in Las Vegas: Poole also believed there was a cover-up involving police. “[T]he Vegas guys told us that the main reason they would never solve this case was that the politicians didn’t want them to,” Poole told LAbyrinth author Sullivan. “They said the powers that be had let them know the city didn’t need an OJ-style circus.” Poole initially fingered Death Row boss Suge Knight, but eventually concluded Tupac’s killing was orchestrated by Sharitha Knight (Suge’s wife) and Reggie Wright Jr, Death Row’s head of security. Poole contended they were after the assets of Suge – who was driving the BMW that was shot up in the Tupac murder – and stood to benefit from his death.Poole died of a heart attack last year and left a legacy of a committed detective who wasn’t afraid to speak truth to power. Unfortunately for him and Johnny Depp, however, his theories don’t hold up to scrutiny. During reporting for my new book I studied all of the theories in the Tupac and Notorious BIG murders, and didn’t find Poole’s compelling. Instead, I’m more inclined to believe conclusions reached by another former LAPD detective, named Greg Kading, who began his investigations in 2006, and published his findings in his 2011 book Murder Rap and a 2015 documentary of the same name. Kading concluded that Tupac was murdered by a Crip named Orlando Anderson – the same man Tupac beat up in a Las Vegas casino just hours before he was shot. (Anderson’s uncle, known as Keffe D, claimed he and his nephew were offered $1m to kill Tupac and Suge by the head of Wallace’s label, Sean “Puffy” Combs.) Kading also determined that Suge Knight paid a man named Wardell “Poochie” Fouse $13,000 for the hit on Wallace. Murder Rap also systematically dismantled Poole’s theories. Poole believed in David Mack’s guilt partly because a black Impala SS was found in his garage – the same model used in Wallace’s killing. Unfortunately, Kading noted, the murder car was actually green, not black. Poole’s theory in the Tupac murder hinges on the unlikely scenario that Sharitha Knight and Reggie Wright Jr enlisted men for the task including Death Row affiliate Little ½ Dead. Little ½ Dead’s supposed motivation to want Tupac dead? That Tupac had stolen the song Brenda’s Got a Baby from him. In my opinion this theory is implausible.Twenty years after Tupac’s death, a consensus is finally emerging about who killed Tupac and Wallace. The majority of people I talked to for Original Gangstas agree with Kading’s theories. Therefore, if you ask me, if Johnny Depp wants to star in a glossy Hollywood adaptation of a Tupac and Wallace book, it shouldn’t be LAbyrinth. It should be Murder Rap.Ben Westhoff’s book Original Gangstas: The Untold Story of Dr. Dre, Eazy-E, Ice Cube, Tupac Shakur, and the Birth of West Coast Rap is published by Hachette Books on 13 September