I like paintings. Sure I do. I actually like all paintings, even bad ones. And when it comes to good ones, I don’t differentiate between figurative and abstract, old and new. I can get as lost in the chance patterns of Gerhard Richter’s abstracts as I can in a Rubens landscape. Now I come to think of it, perhaps it isn’t painting I adore, but paint itself – that wonderful sloppy, smeary stuff.So I can see why there is a YouTube and Instagram vogue for posting videos of paint being mixed. In these clips, paints are stirred in spiralling rivers of white and pink, blue and green. Colours mix and transform. The paint stays wet, raw, and sexy. The people posting these videos are re-enacting the story of painting.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest According to some theories of modern art, painting ought to be dead by now. It is 99 years since Marcel Duchamp said a urinal could be a work of art – and 103 since he created the first “readymade” when he fixed a bicycle wheel on top of a stool. Photography, meanwhile, is well on the way to its bicentenary. So why are there still people messing about with paint, just in caveman days?Because of an artist who did something very much like mixing paint and posting a video just for the hell of it. Jackson Pollock put his canvases on the ground and poured, threw and flicked paint on to them. Watching Hans Namuth’s film of him at work is a bit like watching these videos. Pollock’s paintings have the same freedom and joy. Although no longer new, his art seems it – the paint still has a raw physical freshness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jackson Pollock in his studio (1953). Photograph: Tony Vaccaro/Getty ImagesThe genius of Pollock was to reveal paint itself as material fact, a mysterious goo that mirrors our own sloppy insides – a multicoloured blood, even. He called one of his masterpieces Alchemy, a title that recognises the affinity his art had with those mystical medieval mixers. Pollock did not just set painting free – he liberated paint itself.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Howard Hodgkin’s abstract painting Close Up. Photograph: Martin Argles for the GuardianThe YouTube craze for paint stirring is as much in Pollock’s debt as the artists who followed him were. The most exciting painters of our time, from Frank Auerbach to Cy Twombly, from Richter to Anselm Kiefer to Howard Hodgkin, treat paint not as a window on the world but a world in itself. It masses and congeals, it is scraped and smeared. It is not a means to make pictures but a phenomenon to be explored. The subject of modern painting is paint. That is why these videos of paint being stirred on social media are not simply hypnotic entertainment or means to mindfulness. They go to the heart of what painting is and why it will never die.