Tina & Bobby 9pm, ITVThe well-played love story continues with ex-Coronation Street star Michelle Keegan in her element as Tina, the ordinary girl who falls for Bobby Moore and gets swept up into the turbulent life of Wagdom. When England win the World Cup, the couple are reunited and life looks rosy as they become rich and famous. Baby Dean comes along but soon their perfect life is shattered by the threat of kidnap, and tensions grow within their marriage. A nicely soapy watch. Hannah VerdierSound Of Musicals with Neil Brand 9pm, BBC4In which musical theatre gets its turn to be seen as edgy social history. Tonight, it’s Jets and Sharks as Brand takes us back to the New York of the 1950s. Here it’s an exciting cultural melting pot, and just the right place for choreographer Jerome Robbins to launch an updated, musical version of Romeo And Juliet: West Side Story. Extant original participants are illuminating, while at the piano, Brand explains how the music advances the story. John RobinsonDelicious 9pm, Sky1Final plateful of dark drama served with generous helping of intrigue and infidelity. Michael and Teresa’s secrets start to unravel, their mounting mendacities making Sam suspicious. Gina has her own secrets, as James threatens to expose the events of decades past. Mimi is off to Geneva, ostensibly for a Swiss coach trip. With illness enveloping her and much of her life now falling away, there might well be other plans in place regarding her ultimate destination. Mark Gibbings-JonesLee Mack: Hit the Road Mack 10pm, Channel 4“It’s much better, innit, the old music,” muses the Not Going Out star during this oddly shapeless set from the Hammersmith Apollo; and it feels heartfelt. Mack, in shtick and delivery a leery, audience-baiting Redcoat, isn’t so much a throwback as a 70s re-enactment society, riffing on “big fat lasses”, inbred yokels and the Irish. Still, if any gag fails to land (and there are some good one-liners here), at least “I do them with enthusiasm”. Ali CatterallThe World’s Most Extraordinary Homes 9pm, BBC2This week: houses by the sea. A Norwegian island has a home woven into the rocks, while in New Zealand a house on stilts nestles among trees, and in Nova Scotia, a property looks like two shipping containers about to topple. All stunning, but all ill-served by Piers Taylor and Caroline Quentin’s platitudinous presenting. If you take a drink every time they say “beautiful” or “extraordinary”, by the end of the hour you’ll be dead. Jack SealeLip Sync Battle UK: Katie Price vs Ben Fogle 10pm, Channel 5The enjoyably OTT celebrity flounce-off continues, with one-woman glamour empire Katie Price and Dan Dare stunt double Ben Fogle competing to see who can perform the most convincing musical mime. You might have imagined Fogle was more familiar with conkers than Bonkers but his Dizzee Rascal impersonation is enthusiastic, while Price wisely selects the perfect diva to emulate in the dress-up round. What a way to make a living. Graeme VirtueDating Naked 10pm, TLCThe first episode in a new series of this succinctly titled reality show is located in the Philippines. Meet Kerri, who is fed up of the superficial men she meets in her home town and Chris, a wild child from San Diego looking to take life more seriously; so they both go on a TV dating show in which all participants are naked. All naughty bits are blurred, thank goodness, but there’s no hiding either the lust or recrimination as they work through their dates looking for “keepers”. David StubbsFilm choiceThe Wonders, (Alice Rohrwacher, 2014), 3.35am, Sky Cinema PremiereThis Cannes Grand Prix-winner is a beautiful rites-of-passage tale of a beekeeping family in rural Italy. When the makers of a tacky reality TV show roll up, 12-year-old Gelsomina (Maria Alexandra Lungu) is fascinated by star performer Monica Bellucci, and is desperate to get on the show – which horrifies her grumpy dad (Sam Louwyck). Paul HowlettLive sportLive Snooker: The Masters The third quarter-final, from Alexandra Palace in London.1pm, BBC2European Champions Cup Rugby: Montpellier v Northampton Coverage of both teams’ final Pool Four fixture.7pm, BT Sport 2Championship Football: Brighton & Hove Albion v Sheffield WednesdayThe table-topping Seagulls take on the Owls.7pm, Sky Sports 1