In November 2014, Chicago Symphony’s Orchestra’s Beyond the Score celebrated the life and work of Pierre Boulez. The project’s creative director Gerard McBurney made a multimedia show that premiered in Chicago and then travelled to the Ojai music festival, the Aldeburgh festival and the Holland festival. This video captures the Symphony Center performance, featuring members of the CSO, guest instrumentalists and other artists, and conducted by Pablo Heras-Casado.And, below McBurney recollects Boulez.There are all sorts of ways to remember Pierre Boulez.As a composer of impenetrably difficult music. Or – on the contrary – as a composer of music that washes and tinkles over the head in the most delightfully unstructured way, like gamelan half-remembered in a dream.As a conductor who changed the repertoire and placed the early 20th-century masters at the centre of our musical solar system.As an organiser of institutions, and a street-fighting theorist and polemicist.As a teacher and mentor, beloved of generations of loyal and adoring students – composers, conductors and performing musicians.But at this moment I prefer to remember him in another way, as one of the naughtiest of great artists. His humour, like that of many amusing people, is hard to recapture in written words. It depended on his twinkling eyes, his perfect timing, his infectious schoolboy giggle, and his reckless compulsion always to say what the other person would not expect. And, when speaking English, on his Inspector Clouseau accent, which he sometimes played to the hilt.A simple example, with apologies for what will now forever be the sad absence of his mischievous eyes, his voice and his oh-so-Gallic shrugged shoulders (he smoked in his youth but not in later years).I was escorting him to a restaurant. The rest of the company had moved swiftly, but he was walking slowly, tired after rehearsal. Someone had told me on no account to mention Messiaen. So I did, and he immediately laughed, stopped and looked at me like a schoolboy preparing a whoopee cushion for a grownup.“Ah, Messiaen, he is for me a big problem … [dramatic pause] The religion … [another pause, shrugged shoulders, and louder] The birds … [louder still, hands raised and in tones of pantomimic horror] Aand … my God … the ORGAN!” There was no doubt which of these three shockers was the worst.I said I’d been inspired by his performances of Messiaen in London. He looked at me sideways. “Yes, there are some pieces of his I will do. But Turangalîla ... Never! For me this piece is … you know … a kind of Bernini of the suburbs!”By my reckoning, that is three different snobberies in one. And about his erstwhile teacher’s most popular piece.Boulez loved snobbery. Perhaps that is why he adored Proust. But I think the point for him was never the snobbery itself but the way he knew it would unfailingly rile anyone he wanted to pick an argument with. He had no fear of causing offence and found others taking offence hilarious.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pierre Boulez, photographed in 1999. Photograph: ATTIAS/SIPA/REX/ShutterstockBut he also had the opposite side. In Chicago I saw how he would take the greatest trouble to to be friendly to those who had least power, always speaking respectfully and attentively to cleaners, waiters, security guards and random members of the audience who approached him. There was no humbug about this, no pretence, nothing patronising. He liked human beings, and felt warmth and curiosity about those who lived different lives from his own.And then there was his famous guarding of his privacy, summed up in his bold declaration as a young man: “I will be the first composer in history to have no biography.” Again, one story will suffice.In 2007 (I think) he came to Chicago to conduct a Mahler symphony. The performance was astonishing, brutal and dramatic, Mahler the modernist. After the performance my wife and I rushed backstage to congratulate him. We were the first visitors. My wife shook his hand and said: “That was wonderful! Such darkness, sensuality and violence!”Pierre laughed gleefully, like a teenager: “Aha! I adore that! I like to do in music what I do not do in my life!”