Do you struggle to sit through an entire hour of Happy Valley? Find yourself fast-forwarding past the dialogue-heavy bits on Game of Thrones? Do you ever think, “Yeah, Deutschland 83 is great and all, but is there any way they could boil it down to the length of a Napalm Death song?”If so, fugitive drama Shield 5 might just be the show for you. No episode of the 28-part series, about a security guard who goes on the run after being framed for both a diamond heist and the murder of a colleague, lasts longer than 15 seconds. Viewed in one marathon session, the entire series lasts for seven minutes, shorter than some shows’ pre-credit sequences.Just as unorthodox as Shield 5’s running time is the platform it’s going out on: Instagram. Yes, the home of narcissism and fights over the colour of a dress is now also a platform for micro-TV, with have-a-go showrunners attracted to the creative restrictions of its 15-seconds-or-less video function. Aside from Shield 5, there’s also Desert Friends, a lo-fi sci-fi filmed in black and white, and Artistically Challenged, a knockabout comedy set in the art world.Yet Shield 5, episodes of which are being released daily throughout February, is the first Instagram TV series that suggests the form might actually have a future. For a start, it looks like it’s had a bit of money thrown at it. The series stars people you might have even heard of – Christian Cooke (last seen getting repeatedly beaten up in the BBC’s Iain Banks adaptation Stonemouth), Brit rapper Example – and boasts passable production values and special effects. There’s also a mystery element at the show’s core, with a storyline that jumps back and forward in time, and clues being released in image form at the same time as each new episode.That’s not to say Shield 5 is any good. For all its innovation, the story itself is largely predictable – a mishmash of leftover parts from 24, Bourne and Spooks. What’s more, it frequently fails to make use of the benefits of the format: some of the ‘episodes’ feel superfluous, failing to push the story forward, and the mystery at the heart doesn’t, as yet, feel all that mysterious. Indeed, 11 days in, it has scarcely managed to tell us more than we knew from the show’s blurb: there’s a man, he’s been framed, he’s not sure why, and, well, that’s it.For the time being, the Instagram TV series remains a work-in-progress – but we shouldn’t write off the genre before it’s even gotten off the ground. Instagram Video’s rival platform Vine, whose six-second video time is even more restrictive, has produced plenty of funny and creative standalone vids that make a virtue of the platform’s brevity. There’s no reason that someone couldn’t tell a layered, complex and engrossing story in seconds rather than hours. As more and more players look to tell serialised stories, from Netflix to web series creators and Instagram, the parameters for what is and isn’t TV are shifting. Which is great news for anyone who’s only got 15 seconds to spare.Follow @shieldfive here