Born in Southampton, Craig David, 35, was 19 when his album, Born To Do It, became the fastest-selling debut by a British male solo artist. This year, he made his Glastonbury debut and won a Mobo for his number one album, Following My Intuition. His new single for Children In Need, All We Needed, is out now; in March 2017 he starts a UK arena tour.When were you happiest?Now.What is your earliest memory?Walking home from school, looking forward to tea. My mum made the best roasts.Which living person do you most admire, and why?My manager and friend Colin Lester, who has protected me through the good times and the bad.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Wasting time on negative things.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Wasting time on negative things.What was your most embarrassing moment?In a hotel, when I put a tray outside my room and the door closed behind me. I was locked out in just my boxers. At that precise moment, a crowded lift opened.What makes you unhappy?Not following my intuition.What is your most treasured possession?Time.What is your screensaver?The standard Apple one. I’ve been through phases of having girls, cars and houses. Now I just keep it simple.What would your super power be?The ability to turn on a tap and bring the whole world fresh running water.What did you want to be when you were growing up? A singer. Living the dream!What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?“This won’t burn.” I bought a dodgy gold ring off a guy in Southampton. He told me to check it was real gold by heating it up with a lighter and pressing it against my skin, because real gold doesn’t burn. I still have the scar on my left hand.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Melting Ben & Jerry’s ice-cream, so I can just pick the cookie dough out.What is the worst job you’ve done?Selling double glazing.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?The entire cast of the original Charlie And The Chocolate Factory film, including all the Oompa Loompas. I was devastated by Gene Wilder’s death.What is the closest you’ve come to death?I was caught by a wave while swimming at night with friends in Southampton. That shook me.If you could go back in time, where would you go?To when garage music was just about to blow up.Bryan Cranston: ‘Who would play me in the film of my life? Mr Bean’ When did you last cry, and why?Watching the 2015 movie Aloha.What single thing would improve the quality of your life?People seeing their own greatness, rather than buying into their fears.What keeps you awake at night?A new song just finished.What song would you like played at your funeral?Rewind. Loud!What single thing would improve the quality of your life?Completely conquering the art of being able to live in the moment.How would you like to be remembered?As someone who brought people together through music.