A new report written by artist Elvis Richardson paints a grim picture of gender equality in Australia’s visual arts.Drawing on data from 2014, the study found that while close to three-quarters of Australian visual art graduates were women, more than half of the artists exhibited in commercial galleries and state museums were men.The report’s findings – launched on Tuesday to coincide with International Women’s Day – have been presented on a dedicated website, The Countess Report, where the public can find details about the gender ratio of artists, curators, directors and board members across all sectors.Funded by the Cruthers Art Foundation, and with assistance provided by the National Association for the Visual Arts, the report forms a continuation of the statistical research Richardson has been conducting since 2008 on her blog, Countess. Richardson says the Countess Report is “more like a report card”, and the marks aren’t good: commercial galleries, state museums and art media all earned the equivalent of a red-pen, see-me-after-class note, with 40%, 34% and 34% female artist representation respectively.A case study of the National Gallery of Victoria’s (NGV) acquisitions found that only 44% of the work collected was by female artists, with 53% by male artists, 1% by collaborations and 2% unknown.“The NGV aims to represent a diversity of artists and art practices,” NGV’s assistant director, Dr Isobel Crombie, said in a statement. “Whilst we don’t have a gender quota in our acquisitions policy, we are always attentive to representing the work of female artists in the NGV’s acquisitions, exhibitions and programs.”The National Association of Visual Arts’ (NAVA) executive director, Tamara Winikoff, was especially disappointed with art media, which she singles out as the worst offender. Men far outstripped women in the press coverage of four major art publications: across Art and Australia, Art Monthly Australia, Artlink and Runway, only 20% of magazine covers featured work by women. Surveying the arts coverage of Fairfax Media titles the Age and the Sydney Morning Herald – including articles of more than 800 words, and its weekly visual arts columns – Richardson found that women were the subject and image of an article only 32% of the time. (The Fairfax titles were the only newspapers surveyed; Fairfax Media has been approached for comment.)“There’s a sort of subliminal preference going on,” says Winikoff. “And I think that then it snowballs. Because the less publicity there is [for women], the less public demand there is, the less the galleries will provide that kind of experience and the less value is attributed to the work of women as compared with men.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   For her 2014 piece Women versus Men, Elvis Richardson cut out each mention of an artist in Art and Australia magazine and grouped them by gender before arranging them on two trophy-shaped backgrounds. It took 10 issues to fill the women’s trophy (right). It took only three issues to fill the men’s (left). Photograph: Elvis RichardsonThe national president of Australian Commercial Galleries Association (ACGA), Anna Pappas, believes the story painted by the statistics marks important progress in the commercial sector.“Commercial galleries are very much part of the positive results of this report,” she says. “These are considerable changes in a rather short timeframe, and commercial galleries should be acknowledged for their role in ensuring changes take place. The important thing is to be aware and to keep the dialogue going.”Pappas also believes that a gender breakdown of curators and collectors, which is not covered in the report, would be vital for the full picture. “ACGA will continue to keep the dialogue active through conversations, panel discussions and inclusion into meeting agendas. We will lobby where necessary and work closely with other organisations and government bodies to make sure the gender equality is achieved totally. And once achieved we will look for other issues that dominate our times, such as transgender equality.” The categories of artist-run initiatives (ARIs) and prizes included more women than men, but the results were more complicated than they appear.For example, further analysis of the staffing at ARIs showed that while women held most of the organisational and administrative roles, the curatorial and advisory roles were dominated by men – suggesting what Richardson describes as “a common pattern of women in supportive, organisational and housekeeping roles”.And although women won more prizes, they won less of the prize pool. “If you divided the number of women into the prize pool, they got $14,000 each and men got $23,000 each,” Richardson says.Richardson was particularly pleased with the results of the contemporary art organisations (CAOs), the group of 12 government-funded independent art spaces. The presence of 45% female artists in their exhibition programming in 2014 showed a marked improvement from 2011, when an audit of the sector on the CoUNTess blog revealed an average of 35%; one CAO, Brisbane’s Institute of Modern Art, scored a dismal 18%.Despite this progress towards parity in CAO funding, Richardson says more work could be done.“The Australia Council gives out money to individual artists 50/50,” she says. “They give 50 to women and 50 to men on the individual grants, and that hasn’t deviated in the 10 years of data they’ve got up on their website. It’s obviously influencing the decision-making at that level. And it’s nice to know women are funded in that way – they’re not disadvantaged in that situation – and that’s because of the enforcing of equal opportunity. But they’re also funding organisations that aren’t [performing well].“Is the Australia Council keeping tabs on that? Or are they just giving the money out, with no accountability?”Women in art: why are all the 'great' artists men? What the numbers don’t show is the context in which the work of female Australian artists is often exhibited. “It’s not seen as fitting into certain narratives,” Richardson says, “and if it does fit into a narrative, it’s almost like [the artists] provide a female perspective, rather than being the makers of what the narrative could be.”As a starting point, Richardson makes two recommendations in the report: that “stakeholders in the Australian visual art sector routinely collect, analyse and publish gender representation data and use it to inform their policy decisions”; and that “stakeholders in the Australian visual art sector promote and advocate for gender equality in their management activities, operations and programming”.Winikoff, meanwhile, urges people simply to think and to act.“We have to try once again to come to terms with the kinds of subliminal prejudices and biases that we have, because all of us may think that we’re acting in a perfectly egalitarian and fair, ethical and equitable area, but it’s only when we come to look at the statistics that we are confronted with the reality of our behaviour [and its] consequences.“So I think we have to stop being complacent, and take some action.”