Most of us have had the experience of rummaging in the attic at Christmas time for decorations only to find the Christmas tree lights are a jumbled mess at the bottom of a box. Every year many tangled sets of lights end up in recycling bins, but where do they go after that? There is a very good chance that they ended up in a small town called Shijiao in Guangdong province in southern China where they are taken apart and used to make other things such as slipper soles.What happens to Christmas tree lights is just a very small part of a massive industry that makes its profits from making things out of stuff we throw out. The global recycling industry is the subject of Junkyard Planet: Travels in the Billion-Dollar Trash Trade by journalist Adam Minter. Minter takes a look at how the industry, in which China plays a central role, transforms our rubbish back into things we want to buy.It is a business that Minter knows well. He is the son of a scrapyard owner in the United States and spent much time working in the family business. He remembers that a lot of the scrap at their yard would be sent to China and he felt that when he came to China he was "hitching a ride on my family's junk".When he came to China working as a freelance journalist, he visited scrapyards and wrote about the industry and despite being many miles from home in a country with a different language and culture, he felt somewhat at home. "As someone who has grown up in the industry and around people who work in it, knowing my great grandfather and my great grandmother who did the very basic things like breaking brass from steel plumbing and I would see it in China and I felt a very deep kinship with the workers as well, right away I felt that these were my people in a sense."In the book, Minter follows the journey of our unwanted stuff as it makes its way from being rubbish to being recycled into something new. He travels from a sorting plant in Texas in the United States to Guangdong Province in southern China, which he describes as the "de facto headquarters of China's recycling industry".As China's economy has grown, so too has its need for raw materials to fuel the factories that make a vast array of products from smart phones to those slipper soles and the country's vast infrastructure from tower blocks to railways and roads. China now leads in the world as the biggest consumer of metals but doesn't have the resources to fuel demand. There has been much publicity about China's hunt for resources abroad, mostly in developing countries but not so widely known is that recycling plays a huge role in quenching its thirst for raw materials. Minter tells me that approximately half of China's copper supply now comes from imported scrap metal.While China imports huge amounts of recycling from Europe and the US, its booming economic has also created a consumer society which, just like us generates a lot of rubbish. In Europe we consider recycling to be a good deed and feel virtuous when we put our Sunday newspapers in the green bin and bring our bottles to the bottle bank. However in China there are no green bins, no bottle banks and no centralised recycling system. But despite this, a higher volume of waste is recycled. While there are no reliable statistics of how much of China's household waste is recycled, Minter tells me that nothing gets sent to landfill if it can possibly be recycled or reused. He says it comes down to money, recycling is driven by an economic imperative in China. This says Minter is why the recycling industry is so successful here and which is essential to ensure our rubbish is reused. "Without financial incentives, no ethical system is going to transform an old beer can into a new one," he says.The recycling industry in China is informal but extremely lucrative and employs a lot of people, more than in any other industry except agriculture, says Minter. A walk along any street in Shanghai shows a booming recycling chain in operation. There may be someone pulling plastic take away boxes from the rubbish bin, while someone else cycles past on a bike pulling a small trailer ringing a bell, the call for people to bring out their recyclable goods for which he will pay the equivalent of a few pence for. When he has a full load he will then sell it onto someone with a bigger vehicle and up and up the chain goes, everyone making money along the way. As Minter and I talk rubbish in a small café in the Former French Concession in Shanghai sure enough we hear the ubiquitous tinkle of a bell outside calling for recycling to buy.While ultimately it is providing an environmental service, recycling industries in China also have some negative impacts. In the book, Minter describes clouds of black smoke rising from junkyards as the plastic is melted to get to the wire inside. But he also points out that in his experience "the worst, dirtiest recycling is still better than the very best clear-cut forest or the most up-to-date open pit mine".He does not try to downplay the negative impacts but says it is a very necessary industry. "To be sure not every recycler is an environmentalist and not every recycling industry is the sort of place you would want to take kindergarteners for a field trip. But in an age of conspicuous consumption, the global recycling business has taken on the burden of cleaning up what you don't want and turning into something you can't wait to buy."There has been many media reports into recycling industries in Asia depicting toxic fumes and exploited workers. But Minter says this is a simplistic view and that rarely do these reports talk to the workers themselves about why they got into the industry. "I've been reporting a long time in China and I've yet to find anyone who has been enslaved in a scrapyard. One of the primary reasons that people go and work in this business s that the wages tend to be higher than factory wages," he says.Minter says there is some "ill feeling" about the industry in the west and that comes from our notion that recycling is a good deed. "I think people who look at recycling as this good deed find something really dirty about the idea that people want to make money from it. It's not supposed to be about making money from it, it's supposed to be about doing something from the earth."It's one of the central messages of the book, whether we like it or not, nothing is going to get recycled without an economic incentive. Who is going to do it? That's a hard message for some people to take."