Modus 9pm, BBC4The apparently inexhaustible supply of wintry and portentous Scandinavian crime thrillers continues. For Modus, we’re in Sweden, meeting novelist Anne Holt’s criminal psychologist Inger Johanne Vik. From the moment Vik uses a speech at a wedding to muse on the nature of loneliness, it’s clear that a decidedly hygge-free tale is unfolding. And so it proves, as Vik’s autistic daughter Stina finds herself in the bad books of a silently murderous and, as yet, motive-free stranger. Frosty. Phil HarrisonFantastic Beasts and JK Rowling’s Wizarding World 4.30pm, ITVFamily-wide entertainment that takes a look at JK Rowling’s wizarding epic Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them. The likable Warwick Davis talks to the cast of Rowling’s new film as well as the creators of the stunning special effects. Davis chats to Newt Scamander himself, Eddie Redmayne, on the set of the movie, before heading off to the world premiere in New York, where he gets a one-on-one audience with Rowling herself. Hannah Verdier Strictly Come Dancing 7pm, BBC1With a bonanza of 10 out of 10s being hurled about at the Blackpool Tower Ballroom last week, perhaps a tad more restraint might be in order tonight as the final six celebs take on the newly conceived “Cha Cha Challenge”. There will be the usual individual routines but also, in a first for the show, there will be a group routine too, with the 12 remaining dancers all on the floor for a hopefully seamless display of snake-hipped cha cha action. Ben Arnold The Brits Who Designed The Modern World 9.30pm, BBC2The hook for this alternately fascinating and annoying film is the opening of London’s relocated Design Museum. Brenda Emmanus profiles 10 designers, any of whom would merit a programme devoted to them alone: road-sign calligrapher Margaret Calvert, Brompton bike inventor Andrew Ritchie and the amazing Kenneth Grange. Why it was assumed that the insights of Pete Waterman or Will.i.am would add anything is anyone’s guess. Andrew MuellerJazzie B’s 1980s: From Dole To Soul 10.30pm, BBC2Jazzie B’s entrepreneurialism may have owed something to Thatcherism, but his massively influential Soul II Soul collective’s ethos also flew in the face of its rampant individualism, as this fabulous film explores. From makeshift soundsystems to a branding empire via illegal warehouse parties, here’s his personal voyage through young black Britain, finding its voice, feet and fashions in the turbulent 1980s. Ali CatterallQueen: Hungarian Rhapsody – Live In Budapest 6pm, Sky ArtsThe 25th anniversary of the death of Freddie Mercury is celebrated in a night of programming. There’s a doc, a tribute concert, a look at Queen’s pioneering videos and two further British concerts. We begin, though, with the enduringly popular band on their last tour with Mercury the singer also looming large on piano and air guitar. It shows the band as a surprisingly rocking fusion of Elton and Zeppelin, and a live tour de force to the end. John RobinsonRunning The World 9.45pm, InsightA double bill of the parkour series that sees street runners Max and Benj drop into surprise worldwide locations to charge and leap around in super-competitive but matey style. First up is India and the Tughlaqabad fort, whose crumbling ruins present a challenge, followed by Mexico City and an 18th-century monastery. Nice boys but you’d need to have a heart of gold not to hope for the odd grazed knee. David StubbsFilm choices The Fighting Temptations (Jonathan Lynn, 2003) 4pm, Movie MixCuba Gooding Jr is a New York advertising executive who returns to his deep-south home to collect an inheritance, but while there discovers that there is a bizarre condition attached: he has to help the local gospel choir win a national competition. Still, given that the talent on hand includes Beyoncé Knowles and barbershop quartet the O’Jays, he’s in with a pretty good chance; and it’s the music – gospel, hip-hop and R&B – that makes this an exuberant and funny show. Paul HowlettShifty (Eran Creevy, 2008) 12.20am, BBC1Shifty (Riz Ahmed) is a tough young drug dealer, and bright and charming with it, too. But the return of his pal Chris (Daniel Mays) from a four-year exile has an unsettling effect on him. Despite the presence of professional wideboy Jason Flemyng, writer-director Creevy’s debut eschews the usual Brit gangster malarkey in favour of subtle and touching characterisation. PHLove (William Eubank, 2011) 2.30am, BBC2There are shades of Kubrick’s 2001: A Space Odyssey and The Martian about this mini-budget sci-fi drama concerning a lone astronaut in space. Gunner Wright is Captain Lee Miller, stranded aboard a space station orbiting the Earth and mulling over the memoir of a US civil war soldier’s account of the appearance of a strange vessel during a battle. The score, and funds for the film, were supplied by US band Angels & Airwaves. PHLive sportTest Cricket: India v England 6am, Sky Sports 2 The opening day of the third Test in Mohali. Can England get back on terms after defeat in Vizag?Rugby Union: Wales v South Africa 5pm, BBC2 After an embarrassing defeat to Italy, South Africa visit Cardiff.Premier League Football: Chelsea v Tottenham Hotspur 5pm, BT Sport 1 Table-topping Chelsea host a London derby with chasing Spurs.