You might not know the names of Matt Villines and Oz Rodriguez, but they’re behind some of the best pretaped bits on Saturday Night Live since they joined the show in 2012. Working under the name Matt and Oz, they completed almost 70 in their four-year stint, including everything from Justin Bieber’s Valentine to the Jay Z Story and Tina and Amy’s Dope Squad. Villines has died of cancer aged just 39. He and Rodriguez completed their first feature, Brothers in Law, which is yet to be released, but we can remember Villines’ legacy with some of his best clips. Naked and Afraid: Celebrity Edition   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Peter Dinklage and Leslie Jones are the first famous people to take off all their clothes and head into the bush for three weeks in this parody of Discovery’s survivalist hit. Naturally it’s Jones’s outrageous behavior that made this video a viral success earlier this year. (Do it On My) Twin Bed   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In SNL’s long history of parody music videos, this one from 2014 is still a standout. The women of the show all return home for Christmas with their boyfriends and try to get frisky in their childhood bedrooms, among the least sexy locations on earth. Outside the LinesMelissa McCarthy is one of the modern masters of hosting the show, and she’s at her best here playing a third-tier women’s basketball coach who terrorizes her players. Golden Globes   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We’ve all seen those parents at awards shows who tell their kids to go to bed in their acceptance speeches. But what actually happens to those kids? This is a hilarious and somewhat sad story of what the night is like from their perspective. The Wire: the Musical   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This was before the duo’s time at SNL, when they were working at Funny or Die. This viral hit takes a ludicrous concept – trying to turn five dense seasons of a television show into a Broadway hit – to its insane and hilarious conclusion. The best part is that it features a number of actors from the original show. Though it’s been gone for years, fans still can’t get enough of The Wire, even if Matt and Oz are poking a little fun at it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Los Angeles Clippers basketball player Blake Griffin, right, shares a laugh with co-directors Matt Villines, left, and Oz Rodriguez. Photograph: Chris Pizzello/AP