When architect Macy Miller embarked on a project to build her own home five years ago, she was single and living in a converted garage in downtown Boise, Idaho, the state capital. Her dream was to live efficiently, without much environmental impact, and to build a home for roughly the same cost as her annual rent ($12,000). And so her plan to create The Tiny House, just 196 sq ft, was born. “About a week later, I bought a trailer on wheels, eight foot wide, as the foundation,” she says. Miller now lives in the house with her partner, James, also an architect, their two small children and an enormous great dane.The house, built directly on top of the trailer, is what most of us would consider a tight squeeze. It has a flat roof and is clad in recycled wood. Both the front and newly extended back, which is wrapped in corrugated metal, have wooden decking steps filled with homey potted plants. The front door enters straight into a tiny living area, big enough – just – for an armchair, with a recessed television and two shelves of books. A flip-up table sits below the window – “Mostly in the down position,” Miller says. To the right is a mezzanine bed for the couple, accessed by steps that double as open shelves. One pace to the left is a small galley kitchen, with a fridge and microwave recessed into the wall. The bathroom opposite has a full-sized shower, sink and compost loo. At the far end of the kitchen is the kids’ room, formerly a covered porch, which has doubled the size of the house.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The children’s bunks. Photograph: Marc WaltersNearly five years ago, when Miller’s build began, children were not part of the plan. She had only just started dating James, whom she met at school. Now, two-year-old Hazel and Miles, nine months, sleep in a new extension that features bunk beds with a wide drawer at the bottom, and pull-out cubbies for clothes and toys.Miller was keen to do as much of the work herself as possible. “I was studying for my architecture exams and wanted hands-on experience,” she explains. “I needed a small project, but one big enough to incorporate electricity and plumbing. It was a huge challenge for a single person to live in 200 square feet full time, which sounds crazy now that we’re a whole family in there.”It was also ideal for her to test green technologies, such as the compost toilet and green roof, both of which were incorporated into the build. Her family was a huge help – her brother is a welder, her father a plumber; electrics and structure were checked over by experts.The house is part of what she describes as “an eclectic neighbourhood”, on a corner plot on a quiet residential street. Her neighbours, she says, are keen on her slightly unusual home. “It’s been a conversation starter. Several people have told me how much they like our cool little house, but it’s an area with many young professionals who are into sustainable practices, so people are pretty open to new things. We have community gardens within two blocks of here.“I love living here,” Miller says. “I know some people don’t believe that, but it is much more manageable than a larger house – it takes 20 minutes to clean, which with two small kids is crucial for me. It’s cheap to run, and everyone has everything they need.”Miller is constantly tweaking and updating, however. This summer, she created a patio area where her children can play. So will they be staying here permanently? “It’s been a great experiment, and has got us debt-free, which was our aim, but we’re now saving for our next move.” She doesn’t say, but it’s unlikely to be a downsize.Moroccan summer: taking interiors inspiration from black and white design House rulesYour pet home hates? Non-functional aspects.Your biggest extravagance? My toilet. Ha! Your design hero? Renzo Piano, for his ingenuity and the way he plans the function of his structures; and Tadao Ando, for his skills and knowledge.Where do you relax? On the couch during waking hours; in bed, otherwise.What would we never see in your house? A third kid. We’re done at two.What are your house rules? No watching the news with the kiddos.Last thing you bought for your home? Foam corner guards for the edges of the steps (baby proofing).One thing you’d change? I’d have a bathtub.