Preacher, AMC’s improbable adaptation of the beloved comic by Seth Rogen, Evan Goldberg and Breaking Bad’s Sam Catlin, is almost here. The series is set to debut later this year, including a screening of the pilot at SXSW. The latest trailer for the series features all of the things fans might expect – Dominic Cooper’s drawling Jesse Custer, the eponymous preacher, Joe Gilgun’s leering Irish vampire Cassidy, and a whole lot of foreboding and portentous violence. Could this show be … good?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Reactions from the pilot’s first screening at the Television Critics Association winter press tour have been positive, bolstering a tentative optimism and suggesting that the pilot really does capture the madcap, lurid tone of the comic. All of the starring performances have been praised, particularly Ruth Negga’s turn as Tulip. Nearly all viewers, however, agree on one thing: the Preacher TV show will be very, very different from the comics.It is, perhaps, unsurprising to learn that a comic book that plays male rape for laughs, has several issues set in an orgy house and features more pointless violence than The Walking Dead will require some tweaks during adaptation. The creative team acknowledges this necessity – “I don’t know if you could translate the comics directly to television,” Rogen said to critics at TCA. “Everyone involved thought we should not do that.” Besides, they’re appealing to an audience broader than just fans of the book. “We want the show to be fun for regular people with not sick sensibilities,” Rogen said. “Put that on a poster.”With that in mind, the design of fan favorite character Arseface (the nickname is literal) has been substantially toned down, in what the producers describe as an attempt to make him palatable to viewers and sympathetic in more than short bursts. In a slightly bigger spoiler, one account suggests that the pilot doesn’t even hint at the overall arc of the comic: Jesse’s quest to find God and make him answer for abandoning creation.Will Preacher be the ultimate comic book TV adaptation? But fear not, fans. This is probably for the best. Preacher is beloved for a reason – like most standouts of a particular genre, the best things about it are impossible to translate. The specific acts of gruesome violence, the hyperstylized sex, the indelible images of a zombie Confederate soldier shooting people with magic guns are all designed, deliberately, for consumption as a comic book. A truly faithful, successful adaptation needs to dig deeper, and understand what makes the material sing in its own medium.The best TV adaptations of the past few years have known this. NBC’s Hannibal staked out an entirely new space in the serial killer genre, exploring the subtext and tonal richness of Thomas Harris’s novels without feeling beholden to either the details of their plot or the public perception of Hannibal Lecter created by Anthony Hopkins. The CW’s iZombie throws out most of the comic it’s based on, content to explore the concept of the heroic, medical examiner zombie with its own characters and creator Rob Thomas’s TV sensibility. All of Jessica Jones’s changes to the source material, like Carrie-Anne Moss’s high-powered lesbian lawyer Jeri Hogarth or the former child star version of Trish Walker, make the original more interesting rather than rendering the adaptation dull.Weird and wonderful: cult comicbooks invade the TV screen Still, deviation is not in and of itself valuable. There are downsides to altering source material, one of which came up as Rogen’s explanation for some of the changes to the Preacher comic: he wants fans to “still be surprised”. This motivation for arbitrary change in the name of surprise is a terrible justification for messing with the foundation of someone else’s story. Trying to sneak something past viewers, Lost-style, is a fool’s game when there are hundreds of man-hours spent trying to unravel TV twists. Slavish devotion to source material and tossing curveballs for no reason both kill an adaptation – the whole process is a balancing act. Just ask the producers of the most successful adaptation on TV.The most faithful moments of Game of Thrones (like The Red Wedding) work on their own terms, but audience response often relies on merely fulfilling fan expectations, allowing them to bask in the misery of the uninitiated. Some of its best characters have emerged from the outlines in the novels (in particular, Sansa Stark’s relationship with Littlefinger). Now, the series will plow past George RR Martin’s novels, and may actually get the chance to do something new with its world. Its producers have learned the lesson that Catlin, Rogen and Goldberg have hopefully internalized: work from a blueprint, but not a bible.