 It’s the 100th anniversary of the Battle of the Somme on 1 July, what should we read to understand what life in the trenches was like? While the entirety of the first world war was terrible there are some particular moments which stand out. The Battle of the Somme which began on 1 July 1916 was one such. It was the largest battle on the Western Front; on the first day of the battle the British army lost had over 50,000 casualties and during the whole battle (which lasted until 18 November 1916) more than a million men were wounded or killed. What are the best non-fiction first world war books for children? The epic scale and the full horror of life in the trenches was captured in the 1916 documentary The Battle of the Somme which, created partly as propaganda, showed soldiers’ families something of the way trench warfare was carried out and the conditions under which the soldiers had to campaign. But, in general, much of what happened during the first world war was never fully revealed during the four years of fighting. The government and Army disguised the truth and soldiers returning on leave found it impossible to reveal what they were seeing and doing. Michael Morpurgo: why we should remember the first world war – children's books podcast The poems of Wilfred Owen, Rupert Brooke, Siegfried Sassoon and Edward Thomas, first-hand accounts of the young men’s experiences, have long stood as the best testimonies to the disturbed state of mind that war can induce. For today’s young readers, Michael Morpurgo has written extensively and movingly about the first world war. By centring his stories on the young men of the day – often men not much older than the 21st century readers – he makes it possible for contemporary children to understand better what happened and to understand how it was that teenagers like themselves could handle such dreadful situations. How I adapted Private Peaceful for the stage and screen – in pictures War Horse, both as a book and through its stage production, is his best known story of the Great War but Private Peaceful, beautifully reissued just now to commemorate the Battle of the Somme, is an equally powerful testimony to human bravery and to human folly and the shocking way in which lives were wasted at that time. Set in the last hours before Charlie’s death by firing squad following his court martial for disobeying an order not to stay with his wounded brother in No Man’s Land, Private Peaceful is a touching and tragic recall of everything that has happened to Charlie since his carefree days on the farm before he, his brother and several of their friends signed up. What are the best first world war books for children? The intensity of Charlie’s story, the unfathomable horror of everything he and his friends experienced during the fighting and the shocking idea that he is to lose his life because of what he has done make this a remarkable and important book that needs to be read now to remember the Battle of the Somme but also at all times as a reminder of the essential need to preserve peace. For younger readers, Hilary Robinson and Martin Impey’s Flo of the Somme gives a different but equally important view of the battle. This time it is from the view of the animals who did so much on all the battlefields of the first world war. Flo is a mercy dog – her job is to get vital medical supplies across the battlefield and to lead Ray, a stretcher bearer and her minder, to the wounded soldiers. The use of locations of the Battle of the Somme such as High Wood, Sausage Valley and Crucifix Corner give authenticity to the story making it a good starting point for introducing the subject. Shockingly, the first world war was to continue for a further two years but the Battle of the Somme needs to be remembered for its unique place in the whole campaign. There are many other fantastic books on the first world war of course. Recommend your favourites on Twitter @GdnChildrenBks and we’ll add them to this blog. 