It was a lovely morning: the sun was cracking the flags, as we say here. We – my husband Perry, our 12-year-old daughter Heidi and our seven-month-old son Sam – went into central Manchester to pick up some currency for Heidi, as she was going on a school trip to France.When we got there, lots of streets were cordoned off, and we heard that there had been a bomb threat. At that time it was not so unusual, but buildings had been evacuated anyway. In Parsonage Gardens, a small square near the main shopping district, people were sitting around chatting, smoking and soaking up the sun. There was no sense of drama; the police looked bored, and we were a bit cheesed off because we couldn’t get through the cordon. The threat was in the back of my mind because we had the children with us, but I thought it was just another hoax. And then the bomb went off.The noise was incredible, a mighty boom. We were just around the corner from Corporation Street, where the truck containing the bomb was parked. Glass and debris were blasted from the shops. Then there was an implosion – I think that’s the only word for it – that sucked everything in and spat it out again.Perry had already pushed Heidi between two parked cars, and I was leaning over the pram trying to protect Sam as shards of glass rained down on us. There was blood everywhere. Heidi was screaming; Perry was cut to shreds; and Sam was crying and had blood all over him – mostly ours, it turned out, but we didn’t know that at the time.We were later told that if we had been a foot and a half away we could have died, as the glass would have broken up into smaller splinters and pierced us like a pin cushion.Balwinder Rana at an anti-BNP march, Welling, 1993 Everywhere was chaos, people running away. As I lifted Sam out of the pram a security guard from a shop came over and took him out of my arms, without speaking. I had no idea what he was doing; I was in shock. He raced off and I chased after him, screaming: “Give me back my baby!” He was probably in shock, too, and trying to get Sam out of harm’s way.In this picture, the police and I had caught up with him. They had to prise his hands off Sam. They took all four of us to Manchester Royal infirmary.It turned out to be the largest mainland bomb ever detonated in peacetime British history, but there were no fatalities. It was a life-changing moment for me: I’d always considered myself a strong character, maybe even a bit bolshie, but I was hit with a simultaneous double trauma – first the bomb, and then my baby being taken out of my arms, at the moment he needed me most. But I don’t blame the security guard – in fact, he came to Sam’s christening soon after with one of the police officers.• Are you in a notable photograph? Email thatsme@theguardian.com