British TV’s most celebrated hotel owner once performed a goosestep across his foyer with a finger held under his nose, in approximation of Hitler’s moustache. Basil Fawlty then asked his German guests why one of them was sobbing. “Will you stop talking about the war?” snapped one. “Me?” asked Fawlty. “You started it.” “We did not start it!” “Yes, you did – you invaded Poland.”That may have been back in the 1970s, but Britons still can’t stop mentioning the war. On Radio 4’s News Quiz recently, Hugo Rifkind noted that the mayor of Cologne had recommended that – following a spate of sexual attacks, reportedly by Arab men – women should keep strangers at arm’s length. “I’m just not sure it’s the best advice,” said Rifkind, “to tell Germans confronted with a racial minority to stand in a public place with their arms out.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You started it’ … John Cleese in the Fawlty Towers episode, The Germans. Photograph: BBCWhy does so much British comedy still rely on memories of a conflict that ended 70 years ago? Because, as is always the case with humour, the joke says more about the teller than its target. Consider Harry Enfield’s early 1990s character Jürgen the German, a tourist in London struggling with his country’s historic shame. His catchphrase? “I feel I must apologise for ze conduct of my nation during ze var.” Each week, Jürgen would lose his sangfroid because of some failing in British life (trains not running on time, say).It’s high time we stopped mentioning the war | Letters No doubt I’m reading too much into Enfield’s creation, but I suspect he was partly exploring British envy for Germans. As a nation, we have never felt moved to do what we should – namely, reflect on how utterly disgusting we were (and perhaps still are) as a nation and an empire.  ‘I feel I must apologise’ … Harry Enfield as Jürgen the GermanIn reality, Germans are not like Jürgen and more like Gottfried the exchange student in the BBC’s Outnumbered: sane, multilingual astute observers of the folly of modern Britain. In one episode, Gottfried asked if it was really true that this buffoon with the silly hair, this man whom Germans recognise as an obvious twerp, has been elected mayor of London? The joke traded on the rather convincing idea that it’s the British who are laughable, not the Germans.That’s why the tagline for the new Dad’s Army film is so funny: “The British Empire strikes back.” We know it never will. All we have is humour to express and explore our repression, our economic inadequacies, our infantilism and our many, many failings. We’re unbeatable at that.“Such smart uniforms,” Sergeant Wilson was fond of observing of the Nazis in the Dad’s Army series. “Blind obedience, Wilson,” Captain Mainwaring would retort, livid at his subordinate’s lack of patriotic sentiment. Dad’s Army was an exploration of many comically rich areas, one of them being Britain’s enduring incredulity that this shambles of a nation could have defeated such a militarily – and sartorially – superior foe. Some might say its abiding popularity shows how irredeemably hidebound the British are: we’re mired in anti-German feelings for a Germany that no longer exists, and wedded to a pride in a Britain that never was.But that would be a misunderstanding of how comedy works – and of how Germans figure in postwar British culture. It may seem that the British hate the Germans but (and feel free to read this aloud in the comedy accent of a Viennese psychoanalyst) the truth is we are actually projecting our own inadequacies on to the symbolic other. In other words, we hate ourselves more.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Defending the realm … Arnold Ridley, Arthur Lowe and John Le Mesurier in the original Dad’s Army. Photograph: Allstar/BBC As Freud put it in Jokes and Their Relation to the Unconscious, humour allows us to release ideas and emotions that have been repressed. The euphoria it triggers returns us to “the mood of our childhood when we were ignorant of the comic, when we were incapable of jokes, and we had no need of humour to make us feel happy in our life”.Freud never lived to see ’Allo ’Allo!, which ran from 1982 to 1992, but he would have recognised its comically pervy Nazis – Herr Otto Flick and Private Helga Geerhart, both played by Brits – as a euphoric release of repressed sexual energies in socially acceptable sitcom form. In one episode, hotsy-totsy Helga reveals that her silk knickers have been stolen to repair a hot-air balloon. “Not,” wails Herr Flick, “ze vones viz ze little swastikas around ze edge?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A smouldering psychopath … Rufus Sewell in The Man in the High Castle. Photograph: Amazon StudiosThis projection of sado-masochistic British sexual fantasies on to German bodies is an abiding cultural theme. It’s arguably why, for instance, Ian Dury rhymed “Hit me with your rhythm stick” with “Das ist gut/Ich liebe dich” in 1978 before adding: “Hit me, hit me, hit me!”When are Britons going to get over these stereotypes and realise that Germany is not a land of risible Weimar temptresses and jackbooted Nazi thugs? Not for ages yet. Not because we hate Germans, but because we need them – to personify what we fear about ourselves but daren’t admit. Germans, understandably, detest being cast in this role. Writing in Der Spiegel, Marco Evers examined this self-serving fairy story by taking a look at English football fans going to the 2006 World Cup in Germany. “No matter where they looked, they could see no goosestepping policemen in leather coats or German supermen. Instead, they encountered fantastic weather, peaceful fan zones and hedonistic partying Germans who bore no similarity to the ‘Krauts’ described in the British media.” Perhaps the only words more terrifying to British ears than “advancing Nazi stormtroopers” are “hedonistic partying Germans” enjoying “fantastic weather”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dad’s Army - video reviewI can’t believe I’ve got this far without detonating the H-bomb. Why do Britons like dressing up as Hitler? Freddie Starr is significant for adding short trousers to what is substantially Charlie Chaplin’s impersonation in The Great Dictator. Comedian Richard Herring’s 2009 appropriation of Hitler’s moustache is more interesting. Herring was obliged to defend himself from those who thought he was endorsing racism, in dressing up as Hitler to make some unpalatable remarks. Nonsense, retorted Herring: “It is an age-old comedic device to say the opposite of what you believe in order to demonstrate the ultimate stupidity of the stated position. Is it heresy to explore the arguments of the racist? Some liberals might think so.” So dressing up as Hitler offers a space for Britons to confront the intolerable, to imaginatively explore evil.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sexual energy … Richard Gibson as Herr Otto Flick and Kim Hartman as Helga Geerhart in ’Allo ’Allo. Photograph: BBCWhen are Britons going to stop stereotyping Germans as Nazis? Probably never. Put it this way: where would British actors be without the Nazis? Unemployed, most likely. I’m not just talking about Herr Flick and his comedy henchpersons. Right now, I’m enjoying watching Rufus Sewell as a smouldering Nazi psychopath in The Man in the High Castle, Amazon’s TV adaptation of Philip K Dick’s what-if-the-Nazis-had-won novel.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Uncomfortable humour … Richard Herring with his Hitler moustache. Photograph: Jim WilemanSewell is only the most recent of a long line of Britons who have excelled as either Nazis or Nazi-like Germans: I’m thinking of the late Alan Rickman as Hans Gruber in Die Hard and, sticking with the same franchise, Jeremy Irons as Gruber’s no less evil brother in Die Hard With a Vengeance. If you’re casting a Nazi in Hollywood, the chances are you’ll call a Brit.Dad’s Army is on general release on 5 February.