Energy efficiency is cheapest and the cost of renewable energy is falling. In contrast, gas prices have risen by 50% in five years and the cost of nuclear energy has trebled since 2008. Yet the UK government today staked a large part of the nation's energy future on the latter, by agreeing a deal with EDF which might lead to them building a new nuclear power station. Ministers have not backed the favourite, or even a speedy but erratic outsider: they have backed a horse running in reverse.The 60-year history of the nuclear industry is one unblemished by promises kept. From "too cheap to meter" to safe as houses, every pledge has been broken. When the UK government once again fell for the renewed vows of the nuclear industry in 2008, they were promised reactors would cost £2.8bn to build. Today's deal shows the cost is now £8bn. They were promised electricity for £31-42 per megawatt-hour: today's price is £92.50/MWh. The trashed guarantees stack up as steadily as the toxic waste pile that already costs billions a year to store. In 2007, David Cameron said: "The problems of nuclear waste have to be dealt with to make any new investment possible." In January 2013, Cumbria, the only place in the running for a permanent disposal site rejected the idea.The government pledge that the private sector would build the new reactors has collapsed too: EDF is owned by the French state and can only move ahead itself with about 40% of the money stumped up by China. The final crushed commitment comes from the 2010 coalition agreement: New nuclear power stations "will receive no public subsidy". If forcing energy consumers to pay roughly £38bn above the current cost of electricity is not a subsidy, what is? If a government package of insurance against accidents and loan guarantees is not a subsidy, what is?This farrago of fictions matters. EDF and the government say the deal protects the public against the near-certainty of broken promises on costs. But read the small print: "The strike price could be adjusted, upwards or downwards, in relation to operational and certain other costs." Perhaps the government could bail out of the deal if the costs soared? No: "Hinkley Point C would be protected from being curtailed without appropriate compensation." If new risks came to light increasing the cost of insurance, could we get out then? No: "Protection would be provided for any increases in nuclear insurance costs as a result of withdrawal of government cover." No wonder opponents are terrified by the lack of any independent scrutiny to date of the deal struck by the government.The nuclear industry has captured the government as comprehensively as the big six energy companies have captured the domestic energy market. Don't forget that just 48 hours after the Fukushima catastrophe, government officials were working with the industry to play down the terrible events - before they had even unfolded. The alternative to nuclear, made to appear unthinkable by the industry's lobbying, is in fact far from inconceivable. A huge effort to improve the UK's woeful energy efficiency is the first step. The UK government currently expects electricity demand to rise by 33-66% by 2050. Why? Germany predicts a 25% cut. That's how to seriously cut energy bills and the carbon emissions driving climate change: by not having to generate power in the first place. It also happens to create thousands of jobs in every part of the UK, unlike the government's failing green deal energy efficiency programme, which is actually killing jobs.The second step is a genuine commitment to renewable energy, youthful technologies ripe for further cost reductions in stark contrast to nuclear. Even today, once you account for the much longer time for which nuclear is promised subsidies, offshore wind costs the same and it will fall. Yet the ambition for 40GW of offshore wind by 2020, which can be built five times faster than nuclear, is being shredded. The subsidies on offer to up to eight nuclear power stations could build that 40GW twice over, though the money has to be spent up front. Gas would also play an important transitional role, in the absence of nuclear power.Cameron today said the Hinkley nuclear deal was an example of "our new industrial policy that looks to the future". It is the precise reverse. With its long and lousy track record, it is little wonder that even the sober thinkers at the Economist concluded that "nuclear is the dream that failed".