According to the Environmental Protection Agency, 89% of mobile devices are not recycled at end-of-life. In 2010, this translated into 135m, or 17,200 tons, of mobile devices that ended up in the waste stream. This waste comes at a huge cost: the EPA estimates that for every million mobile phones recycled, 35,274lb of copper, 772lb of silver, 75lb of gold, and 33lb of palladium can be recovered. Given that many of these minerals come from conflict-torn regions of Africa, where their production helps fund ongoing wars, the impact of improved mobile recycling on both ends of the supply stream could be stunning. Some wireless carriers are taking a leading role in incentivizing electronics recycling. On 17 April, Verizon announced a new instant mobile quote program, the Value Mobile Device Recycling service, a free app that will instantly quote customers a price for their used device. They can then take the phone to a local Verizon store and receive payment for the device on the spot.Mobile buyback programs aren't a new trend: for years, companies like AT&T, Sprint, Verizon, Amazon and Best Buy have been working to make it easier for customers to sell their old phones. In 2012, these programs generated $900m, and they are expected to grow to several billion in the next few years. However, these programs tend to be inconvenient. Typically, users have to answer questions online about the condition of their phones, after which the company provides free shipping labels to send them in. Through some programs, users can earn up to $200 if the device is newer and in decent condition. But receiving payment for the device, in the form of a gift card or a credit to the user's account, usually takes weeks. Verizon's program aims to entice users by offering instant gratification; it takes less than a minute to find out what a device is worth, and not much longer to turn it in. "The program is definitely a good thing. We need instant gratification and immediate feedback or it's on to the next thing," said Barbara Kyle, national coordinator at the Electronics TakeBack Coalition. Mobile device recycling has been a tough sell for consumers, and recycling percentages have been disappointing. In 2012, Verizon's customers recycled 28% of their phones, which put it the carrier the middle of the pack among cell companies that recycle. Sprint led with 44%, while AT&T lagged with 11.5%. The following year, Verizon's recycling rate rose to 31%, and they are hoping that the new program will help further boost their numbers.Providing customers with a faster, more simple process seems like the right move. EcoATM, a kiosk that looks like a vending machine, and enables people to get rid of their devices for instant cash, established its first location in 2009. Since then, the company has expanded rapidly: it currently operates 900 kiosks in malls and select Wal-Mart locations nationwide. In January 2014, it recycled its two millionth mobile device in January 2014. "Cash payment is instant, an improvement over consumers having to wait to receive cash payment or getting store credit," a spokesperson for ecoATM said. "Our kiosks are an original approach to reducing e-waste, and we are changing the way people think about the growing problem of e-waste."Despite the conveniences of ecoATM and Verizon's Value program, some consumers are deterred from recycling because of the uncertainty of what happens to their old devices after they hand them over. Many worry that their data, including contacts, photos and messages, will not be wiped completely. Others are concerned that the phone will not be disposed of in a responsible way.Cameka Crawford, a public relations manager at Verizon, said collected mobile devices are sent to a centralized warehouse in the United States where each device goes through a 220% data wipe process. From there, "85 to 90% of the phones are repurposed and reused. The remaining devices are recycled in an environmentally sound way," Crawford said.EcoATM has a Responsible Recycling (R2) certification. The EPA recognizes that R2-certified companies utilize best practices in terms of data security, environmental responsibility in the US, operations, safety and accountability. R2 companies also track e-waste to its final destination. The benefits of responsibly recycling and reusing mobile phones are substantial. Beyond the monetary and ethical considerations, conserving highly-engineered materials like precious metals, copper and plastics can help companies reduce the air and water pollution and greenhouse gas emissions that are caused by mining and processing raw materials.Verizon's attempt to make recycling more appealing through its Value program is a step in the right direction. However, Kyle said a lot more can be done to incentivize consumers."I think carriers can do a whole lot more. I would love it if they used their marketing ingenuity to get the devices back," she said. "If people are turning devices over sooner rather than later, that can equate to two or three more lifetimes for the phone."Megan Anderle is a writer and editor based in Northern New Jersey whose interests include technology, business, and sustainability