At the end of June, Balenciaga held their first ever men’s catwalk show in Paris for spring/summer 2017. It was staged up six flights of stairs on a rooftop in blistering sunshine and with the Eiffel Tower resplendent behind. The first model out wore a camel coat with super-size shoulders and brown leather boots that finished below the knee. They boasted a stacked heel of several inches. This is not footwear for wallflowers. To pull these off you need a stomp. Possibly a snarl. Probably an awkward haircut. This is not footwear for wallflowers. To pull these off you need a stomp. Possibly a snarl. Probably an awkward haircut. Acne Studios, the Swedish label that has cornered the market for designer denim and wardrobe staples, has always underpinned its normcore offering with talking-point fashion. The Iggy boot, a platform ankle boot with a 3.35in heel, was its most recent curveball; it has been worn on stage by the 1975’s frontman Matt Healy and graced the cover of cult men’s biannual magazine Man About Town, worn with nothing but a pair of brown ribbed ankle socks. Meanwhile at Vivienne Westwood, a male model trooped out in a pair of platform sandals and socks, a look more likely to be seen on the Marni women’s catwalk.Charles Jeffrey, an emerging London-based designer and Central St Martins graduate whose label, Charles Jeffrey Loverboy, is a celebration of all things club culture (he has a night in east London called Loverboy), is fast gaining a reputation for his individual take on menswear and has something of the Westwoods about him. His most recent show featured several boys in towering platform shoes.Alessandro Michele’s era at Gucci has produced a horsebit backless fur-lined slipper for men – at the time of writing the Gucci website featured no fewer than seven variations on this theme, including a brocade floral design. This shoe was first seen in Michele’s debut menswear collection last autumn; a house of this scale does not produce seven variations on a theme if there is no demand, especially when it is a product that has been kicking about for a year.Shoes are one of the biggest growth areas in menswear – though this is likely being propelled more by the ever-expanding cult sneaker market than by anything else. Not that this stops designers pushing their footwear in increasingly extreme directions. As fashion trends often emerge out of a basic reaction to what’s happening in the mainstream, a neat explanation for the rise in sassier shoes for men is that they are frankly the polar opposite of a pair of designer sneakers.Plus the 90s has been a decade plundered by designers over the past few seasons. It is the last time I wore a pair of stack-heeled boots. I had a pair of Buffalo trainers with the thick-as-you-like sole, a pair of girls’ platform ankle boots not a million miles away from the Acne Iggys (yes, I’m eye-rolling at myself right now) that I wore to work and to the greasy spoon for breakfast at the weekend. But then the 90s were the era of Michael Alig and the New York Club Kids, a period brought to life by Macaulay Culkin who played Alig in the 2003 film Party Monster. This crew knew a thing or two about finishing their outfits with a (shoe) bang.2016 saw the loss of two of music’s greatest champions of heels: Prince and David Bowie. There are so many images of Bowie in the 70s wearing pumped-up footwear; from the red boots of the Aladdin Sane tour with their thick black soles to the heeled boots of the Diamond Dogs era. The latter period includes the unforgettable image of Bowie sat next to a huge dog on its hind legs shot by Terry O’Neill – his boots have a whiff of 2017 Balenciaga. Bowie was, of course, in fine-heeled company: Marvin Gaye, the New York Dolls and George Clinton were all fans of a platform during the peak of glam rock, soul funk and disco.Perhaps the most obvious nod to Bowie at the recent shows came via designer twins Dean and Dan Caten of Dsquared2 who put all their male models for spring/summer in six inches of glam rock boots (reportedly each had to prove they could walk in the boots before they got the gig). Meanwhile the duo also careered down the catwalk to take their bow in matching sparkly thigh-high platform boots worn over jeans. It’s hardly a look for the office. The dip-your-toe-in approach is perhaps a chunky soled boot (there are loads around this autumn) worn with slightly short tailored trousers.Obviously, whether the world at large is ready for men in platforms remains to be seen. It’s not as if we’ve much progressed from the perennial summer fuss over men wearing sandals in public. But with the ongoing mash-up of unisex clothes, men’s and women’s wear increasingly being shown on one catwalk and the ongoing media yapping about gender fluidity, perhaps it means we’re heading (quite literally) to new heights of wardrobe blur.Simon Chilvers is men’s style director of matchesfashion.com