Picasso did everything first. In 1907, he painted the first completely modern work of art, in any field – Les Demoiselles d’Avignon. Its equivalents in music and literature, The Rite of Spring by Igor Stravinsky and Ulysses by James Joyce, would not appear until 1913 and 1922 respectively. By then, Picasso and Georges Braque had destroyed 500 years of artistic tradition with the cubist revolution. Then in 1912 Picasso (building on an insight of Braque’s) started using found materials including newspaper and chair caning, a full year before Marcel Duchamp supposedly “invented” the readymade.Picasso's widow may have hidden artworks from family, court told Pablo’s people: the truth about Picasso's portraits  Now it turns out Picasso may have been the first artist to work with human shit.Our soft, slimy, colourful excrement is an artistic material that has been widely used in recent times. I always thought the first artist to recognise its potential was Piero Manzoni, who in 1961 “produced”, in the language of the Tate website, 90 cans of Merda d’artista (Artist’s Shit). The US artist Paul McCarthy is even more of a shithead. His giant inflatable sculptures of brown fundamental stuff are genuinely nauseating in their gross realism. Andres Serrano is another artistic poo aficionado, whose close-up photographs of his own shit are nothing if not pungent.  Yet it seems that long before these contemporary provocateurs took art to the toilet, the father of all that is great in modern art simply picked up some of his child’s poo and used it as paint. Picasso’s granddaughter Diana Widmaier Picasso has claimed that in 1938, when his daughter (her mother) Maya was three, he used her excrement in his art. “According to him, excrement from an infant breast-fed by its mother had a unique texture and ochre colour,” she says.  This will come as no surprise to anyone who has visited the Musée Picasso in Paris, where many of Picasso’s most radical experiments are preserved. There you can see guitars made with thread and scraps of cloth, a work he created in 1930 with a glove stuffed to resemble a real hand, a 1935 figure whipped into being by lashing kitchen utensils together, and his 1951 sculpture of a baboon with toy cars for a head.  The overwhelming impression of a close encounter with Picasso is of a completely unrepressed, compulsive creator who might produce a sculpture by folding paper while chatting over lunch then paint a couple of masterpieces in his studio the same afternoon. Perhaps with stuff stuck to them. So why not experiment with poo? This daring was typical of Picasso – and so is the specific, sensual interest in its colour and texture that his granddaughter attributes to him.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marie-Therese Walter (1909-1977), Picasso’s mistress and model, with their daughter, Maya. Photographed circa 1945. Photograph: Alamy Stock Photo For not only was Picasso prepared to try anything in art. He was drawn to the basic physical facts of life. His art is carnal in an unashamed, unidealised way. He paints people naked, not nude. In Les Demoiselles d’Avignon, not only are we confronted with five defiant prostitutes, but one of them squats on the ground, her arse towards the onlooker, about to do a shit.As Aleppo burns in this age of lies, Picasso's Guernica still screams the truth about war In 1938, when Picasso is said to have scooped up Maya’s poo and painted with it, he had been closely involved with the surrealist movement for more than a decade. His surrealist Spanish compatriot Salvador Dalí confesses to an obsession with excrement in such paintings as The Lugubrious Game (1929), which features a man with bespattered pants among its provocations. In fact, there was a divide in the surrealist movement between idealistic Marxists such as André Breton and more cynical, Sadean decadents such as the writer Georges Bataille. The Bataille tendency revered Picasso, whose art associates desire with the anus as much as any other organ.  The poo Picasso apparently painted with in 1938 comes, metaphorically, from the bum of the crouching prostitute in Les Demoiselles d’Avignon right back in 1907, yet it connects him with the most provocative art of the 21st century. We’ll never get to the end of Picasso’s originality. He shits genius.