When the Tropfest founder, John Polson, was 15, a mixed bag of juvenile delinquencies saw him booted out of high school for a second time.It could so easily have proven disastrous but Polson responded by hurriedly mapping out a plan to start a mechanic apprenticeship and learn the saxophone, hoping that would temper the anger of his jazz musician father. Near-disaster focused the mind, as it so often does, and set Polson back on the right course.And so it was again last year when inexplicably poor financial management put his annual Tropfest event, the world’s largest short film festival, on the brink of collapse. The disappearance of hundreds of thousands of dollars, blamed on the management company, forced organisers to “postpone” the festival a month out from screenings. Tropfest to return as not-for-profit entity with a focus on women film-makers “When I made the announcement to ‘postpone’ this time last year, what I really believed was that we were done,” Polson tells Guardian Australia. “I knew the financial hole, and I knew it was never going to be fixed. But I couldn’t bear the idea of saying that, and I wanted to soften the blow.”A sponsor’s last-minute lifeline saved the event but the fallout caused lingering damage to a brand already under fire for awarding the 2013 top prize to a film that had been criticised as transphobic, and for a licensing arrangement that gave Tropfest exclusive rights to all films “in perpetuity”.The experience has been chastening for Polson. Now he is attempting to reimagine Tropfest in a form closer to its first iteration as a grassroots event in the Kings Cross cafe Tropicana 25 years ago.“Tropfest lost its way for the last few years and I take some responsibility for that,” he says. “I’ve been living in New York, I’ve been focused on my own career. “I had a licence agreement that I thought worked well, and to be fair it did work well for a long time, but no one can argue that we [haven’t] lost our way. Now we’re trying to find our way back to the path.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘If we had our time again it might have gone down very differently’: John Polson reflects on TropfestThe corporation that ran the festival, Tropfest Festival Productions, is gone, replaced by a not-for-profit overseen by a Tropfest board. The controversial licensing conditions have also been ditched, a move Polson describes as a “no brainer”.He openly acknowledges the mistakes of the past, including the selection of the film Bamboozled as the 2013 winner, and concedes that Tropfest must do more to encourage diversity in film-making.“We’re not perfect. I know [with] that film, if we had our time again it might have gone down very differently. But you’ve got to take those on the chin and say, ‘OK, let’s try and do better next time.’”Next year the festival is moving to Sydney’s west for its 25th birthday, and will be held on a Saturday, with a series of weeknight events leading up to the main showing.“One thing I know about life, and about Tropfest specifically, it’s up to us to make it a success,” Polson says.He is still in dispute with the management company over the missing money. The episode has been put to the back of Polson’s mind, he says, but “by no means have I moved on”. “The truth is I’ve spent a lot more time focusing on getting back on the rails than I have on what happened.“It felt like I had a choice between going back and seeking revenge, for want of a better way of putting it, versus getting this thing back on the road – and I chose to get it back on the road. But I’m not going to be giving up on that anytime soon.” The move to Parramatta is a multi-year agreement and one Polson strongly believes will work, despite its distance from the city centre. He said moving the event to a Saturday night from a Sunday would allow more travel time, and help keep crowd numbers strong.The successes of the festival over more than two decades, attracting an audience of 1.6 million people since 1993, had bred complacency. The uncertainty of the past few years changed that, he says.“It feels like the first year, in some ways. In some ways, it’s a brand that everyone knows and loves, and in other ways we have to re-prove ourselves.“That’s what happened in the first time round; I had a vision for Tropfest in the early days that nobody else could really see at the time.” • Tropfest will be held on 11 February 2017, with entries open until 15 December. 