In the St Annen-Museum in the northern German city of Lübeck, the novelist Erica Fischer is making a speech to open a new exhibition about how Germans get on with their neighbours. It is, to put it mildly, topical. “I strongly hope that the fear Muslims have of becoming the new Jews of Europe will not come true,” she says to her audience of overwhelmingly white, well-heeled and middle-aged citizens.Fischer – the author of Aimée & Jaguar, the bestselling novel about the second world war love affair between two women, one a Jew, the other married to a Nazi – has reason to worry. A recent poll found that 60% of Germans believe their country cannot cope with the numbers of new arrivals, which reached 1.1 million in 2015, while 42% fear their cultural values are under threat.More than 70 years ago, Germans murdered millions of their Jewish neighbours, or stood by while they were sent to their deaths. In this beautiful old city, now a Unesco world heritage site, a community of more than 500 Jews was deported, most to be murdered in death camps or in the forests around Riga.Last August, Der Spiegel carried this front page headline: “Xenophobia is poisoning Germany.” Since then, resentment of immigrants has risen. Recent examples include pubs and clubs in Freiburg banning immigrants and a swimming pool in Bornheim refusing to admit male refugees. Fischer mentions Cologne where, on New Year’s Eve, sexual attacks against women were blamed on immigrant men. “Those events,” she says, “have led to a renaissance of a very xenophobic, patriarchal and ultimately misogynistic climate in Germany.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eier, Mehl, Kekse, 2015, by Ken Aptekar. The text reads, ‘eggs, flour, cookies, potatoes, soap, carrots, organic oranges and a roll of paper towels for Mustafa next door’.In this toxic climate, the American artist Ken Aptekar is staging a show called Nachbarn, or Neighbours, using video, paintings and silverpoint drawings to explore what neighbourliness means. He was thinking about the theme long before Germany’s – and Europe’s – current refugee crisis. In 2006, he visited Lübeck and was struck by how the St Annen-Museum, a former Augustinian nunnery, was next door to one of the few German synagogues not to be burned down during Kristallnacht in 1938. How, Aptekar wondered, did these Christian and Jewish neighbours get along before and during the Holocaust?“I wanted to do something that would speak to young Lübeckers,” says Aptekar. “I wanted to shift the Holocaust narrative from being about victimisation to otherness, immigration and community. Can people recognise and respect their profound differences and together build a vibrant community?”He didn’t know 10 years ago how topical these questions would become, in a Europe still reeling after the Paris attacks. Strikingly, the names of the works have translations into German, English, Russian and Turkish. Why Russian and Turkish? Because Lübeck’s synagogue is now a thriving place of worship for a 900-strong community of Jews, mostly from Russia; while, within walking distance of the museum, there are three mosques, whose worshippers are mostly Turkish-speaking.Aptekar is known as an appropriation artist. When I first interviewed him 16 years ago, he had an exhibition at London’s Victoria and Albert Museum called Q&A that involved him showing works from the museum’s European collection to focus groups: redheads, African-Caribbean women, art students. He sandblasted their most interesting responses on to sheets of glass. Then he painted copies of details from the pictures discussed and attached the glass to them. He has done something similar in Lübeck, recycling imagery from Christian altarpieces in the St Annen collection, and overlaying them with texts carrying present day resonances. One room in Nachbarn features Aptekar’s Carlebach Suite, six paintings dramatising the true story of a Jewish family from Lübeck.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I Thought We Were Friends, 2015, by Ken Aptekar.In the first painting, a detail from a 1475 altarpiece is overlaid with an unfurling, Torah-like scroll bearing the words: “1941: Food rations for the Simson Carlebach family are reduced. Jews are not permitted to buy meat, milk, white bread or cigarettes and can shop only between the hours of 4pm and 5pm.” The next painting’s text reads: “After nightfall, neighbours secretly provide the family with food that they leave outside their garden gate, a crime severely punished by the Nazis.” The third reads: “When the Carlebachs find out the Nazis are coming to pick them up, they tie a monogrammed kitchen towel to the garden gate, a final thank you and farewell.” Most of the Carlebach family were deported to Riga in 1942 and murdered. But not all: son Felix managed to flee to Manchester where, from 1947 until his retirement in 1984, he was a rabbi at South Manchester Synagogue. 'The smoke from your barbecue is really annoying,' reads the text on one painting Almost five decades after his family’s murder, Felix Carlebach was invited back to Lübeck to be made an honorary citizen. During the ceremony in 1987, a woman approached him. “Our parents were neighbours. I brought something that belongs to you,” she said, and handed the rabbi the kitchen towel. The scene is commemorated in the last painting. “What impressed me most,” says Aptekar, “is that the woman then just disappeared. She didn’t want anything. She wanted to give and receive nothing back, not recognition, atonement, nothing.” In the centre of the room is a vitrine containing that towel, brought from Manchester for the exhibition. Aptekar also tackles the everyday reality of having to live next door to someone whose values drive you nuts. “Your dog shat in my kid’s sandbox again,” reads the scrolling text of one silverpoint drawing. “The smoke from your barbecues is really annoying,” reads another.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aptekar’s repainting of Max Liebermann’s notorious 1879 painting The Twelve-Year-Old Jesus in the Temple. Photograph: Ed Alcock for the GuardianOne of the most affecting parts of the show is a video installation Aptekar made after interviewing Rodolfo Hoffmann, the last surviving bar mitzvah boy from prewar Lübeck. Aptekar tracked him down to Santiago, Chile, where he filmed the 91-year-old recalling his childhood. Hoffmann describes a time of innocence, when he played with other kids, celebrating Christmas as well as marking Jewish holidays. Hoffmann says he scarcely felt Jewish: it took Hitler to do that.Hoffmann’s father was partner in a shoe shop called Blumenthal’s. When the Nazis came to power, a traffic cop would narrowly eye anybody who dared to go inside the Jewish-run business. Few did, trade collapsed, and Blumenthal’s was sold at a rock-bottom price. The buyers were non-Jews who ran the shop under the name Schümann Schuhe until last October. Hoffmann’s family managed to flee to Chile in 1936, just a few months after Rodolfo celebrated his bar mitzvah at the Lübeck synagogue, which the Nazis soon converted into a gym. Sad-eyed Hoffman remembers travelling halfway around the world to escape murder by Nazis only to be find himself living in a ghetto. His family would invite neighbours over for meals, but the offer was never reciprocated. “So we lived in a ghetto that we made ourselves,” says Hoffman. At the end of the exhibition is the Jewish artist Max Liebermann’s notorious 1879 painting The Twelve-Year-Old Jesus in the Temple, loaned from Hamburg’s Kunsthalle. It’s notorious because Liebermann repainted it following an antisemitic outcry over his depiction of Christ as a poor, barefoot Jewish urchin. Liebermann obligingly gave the boy blond hair and sandals, making him look less poor and less Jewish. In the context of Aptekar’s show, the painting has an allegorical function: it’s about the grotesqueness of forced integration, about what happens when difference is not respected but obliterated.Next to it, Aptekar has repainted Liebermann’s repainted Jesus. He keeps the blond hair and the sandals but overlays the image with the words: “Die Juden in die St Annen-Kirche” (Jews in the St Anne Church). It serves as a reminder that all those figures in the museum’s great Christian art collection were Jews, different from yet equal to Christians – just like its neighbours in the synagogue next door.• Nachbarn is at St Annen-Museum, Lübeck, until 29 May.