My colleague Kit Strange, who has died suddenly aged 56, was an environmental consultant whose vision of waste as a potential resource has gradually taken hold of mainstream thinking.In 1993, he joined the World Resource Foundation as a journalist, and later took over the organisation and its publication, the Warmer Bulletin. He was director until 1999, raising the profile of the charity and pursuing his passion for making a case for more sustainable resource management. Then Kit founded his own consultancy, Residua.The Resource Recovery Forum had been started in the mid-1990s by a mix of people within industry and local government who were interested in the balance between material recycling and energy from waste. Kit was an early member, made suggestions in a quiet, informed way and brought together people or organisations doing interesting things. Residua became the secretariat for the RRF and it grew into an association of 300 organisations and individuals worldwide.Kit was in constant demand, speaking at conferences and sitting on advisory bodies. He was also secretary general of the Association of Cities and Regions for Recycling & Sustainable Resource Management. RRF members typically received three or four emails a day on some element of global best practice. If you wanted some information, the reply was quick, wherever he was in the world.He was born Christopher Strange in Chichester, West Sussex, and educated at Midhurst grammar school. Kit studied biochemistry and pollution at Manchester University, and worked in the oil, gas and nuclear industries as an environmental scientist, increasingly focusing on communication.In the late 1980s he worked as communications manager for Nirex, the government nuclear waste agency. From there he went to British Gas exploration and production, designing and implementing local environmental communications activities in Russia, Kazakhstan, Turkey and various parts of Europe.Kit was an engaging communicator and a warm and humorous friend. He was constantly on the go, but found time outside work for charity fell-running. He is survived by his daughters, Emily, Kathie and Marianne.