‘Cinema is white, bourgeois and racist. That’s clear,” says Houda Benyamina. The French-Moroccan film-maker is not one to mince words. She is passionate and energised and talks at a blistering pace, as if there is not a moment to lose. She does not just mean French cinema, but all cinema. France’s is better than most. She cites a recent study that found just 7% of top movies in the US were by women last year. In France, it was 14%, she tells me. But still, she describes French cinema as a “caste system”: closed, aristocratic and hostile to outsiders.Divines review – exhilarating urban thriller froths with joie de vivre This year, though, Benyamina got her foot in the door. In May, her film Divines received a standing ovation at Cannes and won the Camera D’Or prize for best debut feature. “Cannes est à nous aussi! [Cannes belongs to us too!]” she declared in her fiery acceptance speech, raising her fist in the air. She went much further, in fact, but we will get to that later.As you might have guessed, Divines is not about white, bourgeois France. Its subjects are young women with the odds stacked against them: French-born children of African immigrants, growing up in the deprived Parisian suburbs without privilege or opportunity, much like Benyamina herself. The film’s lead actor is, in fact, her younger sister, Oulaya Amamra. She plays Dounia, a shrewd, spirited teen whose ambition dangerously exceeds her wisdom. When the exasperated tutor at her vocational college asks Dounia what she wants (shortly before kicking her out) she mimes Lil Wayne skimming banknotes off the top of a pile: “Money, money, money!” Along with her good-natured best buddy, Maimouna (Déborah Lukumuena), Dounia sets about getting it, forcing her way into the employ of Rebecca, the formidable neighbourhood drug dealer. “You’ve got clitoris, I like that,” Rebecca tells her.They don’t teach you that type of language at vocational college – or anywhere else, it turns out. “It’s not a real saying; I invented it,” says Benyamina. It came about as a consequence of her own energetic, insistent approach to getting her film made. “Everyone told me I had balls. I said: ‘No, I don’t have balls, I have clitoris.’ We decided to use it in the film.”You could classify Divines as what the French call “cinéma de banlieue”, a form of suburban social realism best exemplified by Mathieu Kassovitz’s 1995 classic, La Haine, but it is more than that. Other reference points would include Céline Sciamma’s Girlhood or even Martin Scorsese (Benyamina has variously compared her two leads to Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel, and Laurel and Hardy). Divines is a naturalistic youth drama and a gritty crime thriller, but there are also moments of lyricism and spiritual grace. Ultimately it’s a film about poverty, a film about injustice. That’s what I’m really interested inHouda Benyamina    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Click here to watch a trailer for Divines.The grit is authentic: Dounia’s home, with her alcohol-addled mother in a ramshackle shanty town on the edge of Paris, is a real location, one rung below the housing projects of the banlieues. “We were the poorest of the poor but they’re even poorer,” Benyamina says. These camps were traditionally populated by Roma people. “What’s new is now they’ve got all ethnicities in them: Maghreb [north African], black African, white French.” But ethnicity is not really the prism through which she wanted to show these characters’ stories. “Ultimately it’s a film about poverty, a film about injustice. That’s what I’m really interested in.”There are also moments of transcendence. At one point, Dounia and Maimouna mime taking a drive in their imaginary Ferrari, sipping imaginary champagne and distributing all that “money money money”. They literally glide through the concrete landscape, as if conveyed by an invisible car. Dounia also develops an affection for a handsome (white) security guard at the local supermarket, who is training to be a dancer. In a pleasing gender-reversal, she spies on him from the gods in the local theatre as he goes through his moves, bare-chested. The girls muse on their place in the universe, the local mosque is a continual presence, there is even a drug drop in a church, backed by a Mozart requiem.Those looking to explain France’s current issues with Islamist extremism, in the aftermath of the Charlie Hebdo massacre and the Paris attacks of last year, will not find clear answers here, but they will find context. The Islamic codes of the characters’ parents are in the film’s margins, but more appealing to Dounia’s generation is the guidance of Rebecca the gang leader: “Why stay poor? Dare to be rich!”That feeling of being caught between cultures is true for a lot of today’s French-Arab youth, says Benyamina, whose parents came to France in the mid-1970s. “I think it’s an absence of values, an absence of spirituality, of understanding and knowledge of the culture these young people came from. That ignorance, that lack of belonging creates monsters. Because the society in which they live, what they consider their country, they feel like they’ve been rejected from it, so they create this new identity. It’s like a protest identity. I would compare it to the punk movement.”An inspiration for the film, and a personal turning point for Benyamina, was the 2005 riots. Decades of neglect spilled over into violence and destruction in the banlieues: burning cars, stone-throwing, tear gas, running battles with riot police. “I was really furious, too,” Benyamina says. She was 25 at the time, studying at acting school. “I had a lot of anger. I was ready to go down and burn bins and set fire to cars and all that, but I didn’t do it.” Instead she channelled her anger into film-making, she says: “Better to make a film than a bomb.” In the 2005 riots, the anger didn’t find an echo. No one created anything. We ended up with more misery and povertyHouda Benyamina    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Click here to see Houda Benyamina’s speech at Cannes.The 2005 riots were her generation’s equivalent of 1968, she says, but there was a difference this time: “In 68, the anger was understood and translated by an intelligentsia: authors, intellectuals, artists, who then formulated demands, and so made progress. In 2005, that same anger didn’t find an echo; it just got worse. There was no intelligentsia who took it up, no one created anything out of it, so we ended up with the Roma camps and more misery and poverty than we started with.”The year after the riots, Benyamina founded 1,000 Visages, an initiative to democratise film-making by giving opportunities to those excluded from the cultural mainstream. She taught film-making, trained actors (including her sister Amamra) and made some award-winning short films. The logical next step, getting a feature made, was a different order of challenge, particularly when it came to the French film industry. “Bourgeois cinema doesn’t upset anyone. They can make as many of them as they want,” she says, “But they didn’t know where to put me. They couldn’t say if my film was social-realist, popular cinema, arthouse … They saw me as just someone making another ‘banlieue film’. I don’t like that label. If a middle-class man had wanted to make such a film – no problem.” She doesn’t name names, but it bears remembering that one such white, middle-class man, Jacques Audiard, won the Palme D’Or at Cannes last year for his own “banlieue film”, Dheepan.She found financing with the help of her producer and co-writer, then it was another battle to get the film distributed. “All the TV stations said no, except [state-owned] France 2, and that’s because that was only one which had a woman in charge. She said she’d meet with us but that she’d say no. But when she saw me and heard me, she said yes.” That’s clitoris for you. Since Cannes, the film has been acquired by Netflix, which means it will be accessible in 130 countries.Having got her foot in the door, it’s hard to imagine Benyamina stopping now – or, indeed, being stoppable. She has no intention of playing by the rules. That she proved with her spirited, some might say impolite, acceptance speech at Cannes. As well as proclaiming her arrival, she bemoaned the male domination of the festival, screaming: “Les femmes! Les femmes!” “I said it’s not a problem of quality. There’s not a lack of decent female films, it’s that there aren’t any women on the selection committees.” She finished by thanking the festival’s artistic director, Edouard Waintrop, for taking a chance on her, telling him that he, too, had clitoris.“I had actually prepared a speech, but on the day, I found it really hard to read on my iPhone, so thought I’d go rogue and improvise,” she says with a smirk. She has no regrets. “The outsider needs to speak the language of the ruler, of the prison guard, and this is what everyone resented or found controversial in Cannes: that I didn’t speak this language. I don’t want to speak this language! I know how to speak it very well but I chose not to. I can’t be anything but natural.”Divines launches on Netflix on 18 November