Brie Larson enjoyed an all-time career high at Sunday’s Academy Awards, winning the best actress Oscar for her performance in Room. Now the 26-year-old actor is currently one of the most-in demand in Hollywood, due to appear in the upcoming King Kong blockbuster, Kong: Skull Island, as the female lead opposite Tom Hiddleston and Samuel L Jackson.Brie Larson at Telluride: 'It’s so easy to fall into a world of pleasing everyone' Asked backstage at the ceremony, shortly following her win, to name a song to best describe her overjoyed state of mind, Larson cited I’m In Love With My Life by Phases, her boyfriend, Alex Greenwald’s band. “So easy!” she said.Larson also made a point to recall an unhappier moment in her life, when she struggled with what she perceived to be sexism in her industry.“There were many times that I would go into auditions and casting directors would say: ‘It’s really great, really love what you’re doing, but we’d love for you to come back in a jean miniskirt and high heels,’” she said. “Those were always moments of a real fork in the road, because there’s no reason for me to show up in a jean miniskirt and heels other than the fact that you want to create some fantasy, and you want to have this moment that you can reject. I personally always rejected that moment. They were asking me to be sexy, but a jean miniskirt and heels does not make me feel sexy. It makes me feel uncomfortable.”Larson shared that she learned from the experience, explaining how it taught her “what it took to feel confident and strong.” She added: “Every time I was put in front of an opportunity where I had to decide in those moments, do I or do I not wear a jean miniskirt? They became huge moments for me of confidence.”The newly minted Oscar winner said she’s now on a mission to play “complicated women” – “women that are inside of me.”In addition to Kong: Skull Island, Larson will also soon be seen alongside Cillian Murphy and Armie Hammer in Ben Wheatley’s action thriller Free Fire, and as a scientist sent to India in the musical Basmati Blues.