This series includes two books: The Perfectionists and The Good Girls, both by Sara Shepard.The characters of the book – Ava, Caitlin, Julie, Parker and Mackenzie – conversed about murdering the rich bully Nolan Hotchkiss in their film studies class. Even though they talked about it, they never went through with it because they are good girls. So, when Nolan actually winds up dead in exactly the same way they planned, the girls start wondering: is it just a coincidence? But when someone else they named dies, they start questioning if anyone overheard their conversation and is now killing their enemies, in an attempt to frame them.This series is truly mind-blowing – how could it not be? It’s by Sara Shepard after all (the author of the #1 New York Times bestselling Pretty Little Liars series). So for anyone who likes Pretty Little Liars, this series is a must read, and for those who have not heard about Sara Shepard or Pretty Little Liars before, you must give this series a chance – you won’t be disappointed! The second book of the series has so many plot twists that it’ll literally drop your mouth open and give you goosebumps. I remember re–reading the confession by the murderer to make sure it was true. There’s love, there’s thrill, there’s friendship, a mystery to uncover and a story that you need to read. There’s also the positive message of never saying anything that you might live to regret.The best part of this series is that it is written in multiple POVs (points–of–view), so readers get to know each of the characters and their struggles closely, making the duopoly all the more intriguing. I’m glad that Sara Shepard didn’t make the readers wait for a long time to find out who the killer was but I still want more books in this series. It ended in a very unexpected manner and so definitely keeps the readers wondering.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!