Of all the nasty, nefarious, no-good ways to erase Barack Obama from history, this is perhaps the most sinister. Forget mass-pipeline initiation or repealing the Affordable Care Act; MTV is bringing back My Super Sweet 16.Stick with me here. My Super Sweet 16 ran for three and a half years from January 2005, and managed to perfectly encapsulate the then-prevalent notion of the Ugly American. The series was a gaudy parade of humanity’s worst instincts, of entitlement and pettiness and blind consumerism at all costs. It was a grotesque bearpit of a show, an all-time gold standard blueprint for horrible parenting. With every episode, with every room-shredding tantrum brought about by an infinitesimally off detail in a whirlwind of tacky excess, viewers were presented with yet another watch-through-your-fingers playbook of How Not To Raise A Child. My Super Sweet 16 was an unlovely show for an unlovely time.The show’s final regular episode aired on 15 June 2008, less than a fortnight after Obama secured enough delegates to become the Democratic party’s presumptive presidential nominee. In the years to follow, taking Obama’s lead, culture would become more elegant and responsible – to the extent that MTV’s replacement for My Super Sweet 16, a series called 16 and Pregnant, was actually credited with causing a 5.7% reduction in teen births following its debut. But now he’s out of the picture, MTV has reacted accordingly.It’s been less than a week since Obama was president, and MTV has already issued a casting notice for a revived version of My Super Sweet 16. All the classic moments you thought you’d put far behind you – the ballooning party budgets, the giant presents, the fights, the planners who manage to walk the line between stressed and obsequious, the terrified parents so eager to please their little darlings that they can’t see the monster they’re raising – are going to be back, and they’re going to make you just as angry as ever. In a way, it makes perfect sense. My Super Sweet 16 seems like the perfect product of Trump’s America. It’s brash, it’s entitled, it’s obsessed with empty posturing and the hollow baubles of wealth. Its stars tend to float along on a familial bubble of inherited wealth that makes them singularly unable to function in the real world. And they’re thin-skinned, too, plotting furious revenge on anyone who shuns them or undermines them or dares to steal their thunder. The show couldn’t be any Trumpier if Nigel Farage ran onstage at the end of every episode and did a flopsweaty thumbs-up beside the bewildered partygoers.Perhaps My Super Sweet 16 is just the show we deserve now. Perhaps it’s the perfect series to have on in the background when we sever the bungee cord and leap to oblivion. Perhaps MTV is actually doing us all a favour. If that’s the case, let’s just pray it doesn’t bring back I Want a Famous Face next. That would be a step too far.