What is the difference between an ecotown, a garden city and a new town?The first of these is different from the others in that, so far, none exists, but there are other interesting dissimilarities. Ecotowns were one of the vaguely old Labour things suggested in the dying days of Gordon Brown's Labour government. Immediately, campaigns to try to block them shot up in the (usually fairly affluent) areas they were planned for.The same happened with the new towns, which emerged under Clement Attlee's minister Lewis Silkin in the 1940s – Stevenage's new railway station was defaced with "Silkingrad". That was perhaps not unexpected, as possible models for the planned industrial towns of the 1940s were the experimental settlements of the Soviet Union a decade earlier – Harlow as Essex's answer to Magnitogorsk. The coalition hardly seemed likely to be enthusiastic for their successors. A hint of state socialism hangs around the idea of the ecotown as it did with the new town – the idea of the city forcing development and change against the will of the shires.It's a surprise, then, to find that one ecotown is about to go ahead – Northstowe, in Cambridgeshire.The ecotowns are very unlike new towns, in interesting ways. New towns were supposed to be self-sufficient, with their own industries; Northstowe is transparently planned as a commuter town in the Cambridgeshire "Silicon Fen". The new towns moved tens of thousands of working-class, inner-city dwellers out of the slums and off council housing waiting lists, offering them the homes with gardens they'd always dreamed of; the new ecotown will have, at most, a scattering of "affordable" homes among the executive housing. New towns had their own railway stations and town centres; Northstowe promises nothing so ambitious.What this really is, and what ecotowns always were, is a way of getting planning permission to build in the places – south-eastern countryside and exurb – where development is both extremely lucrative and highly restricted. It might look like planning, but it's of a piece with a government that wants to tear up the town and country planning rulebook.Most of Northstowe, if it does appear, will be the work of developers and volume housebuilders, rather than the public corporations and councils that built the new towns; but it still seems oddly dirigiste for the militantly laissez-faire Tory-Whig coalition. The housing minister, Grant Shapps, has, however, already spoken out in favour of the garden city.This innovation, pioneered in the 1900s by Ebenezer Howard, a typically Victorian combination of crank and pragmatist, was intended to be the bottom-up solution to the ills of both the dirty, noisy big city and the isolated, dull village. Groups of people would, together, build and own their garden cities, where workers would live alongside doctors. Howard called it "commonsense socialism"; given the lack of direct government involvement, Shapps would no doubt see it as an embodiment of the "big society" – which is convincing, because Howard and his followers' developments at Letchworth, Welwyn and Hampstead have long been prohibitively expensive for the workers they were originally aimed at.That couldn't be said of the postwar new towns, from Crawley to East Kilbride, dominated as they were, and are, by council housing. Even then, we find surprises. Basildon, for instance, has a short memory. It grew out of informal, ad hoc settlements, as an attempt to plan amenities for an unplanned development that was already there – the camp on its edges at Dale Farm was closer to the original impulse than anyone really noticed.The taint of the original "new town blues" has since become the taint of metropolitan snobbery, though in some new towns – Cumbernauld, Milton Keynes – you can find some of the most modern and urbane things in the UK. Cumbernauld, at least outside of its disastrous central shopping area, is practically idyllic, a piece of Scottish-Scandinavian garden futurism; "MK" is similarly successful, growing every year since its late 1960s founding. Both towns are still more affluent today than the areas of London or Glasgow the new town residents left behind.Neither garden city or new town really resembles the putative Northstowe. What this ecotown really looks like, from the proposals, is one of the stealth new towns that emerged since 1979. Never planned, announced or debated-over, as the garden cities or new towns were, and with none of their utopian overambitiousness, stealth towns or "new settlements" are usually of around 10,000 homes (compare Milton Keynes's 200,000). They include Bradley Stoke just outside of Bristol, or Camborne, just outside Cambridge. They're the Barratt Homes' answer to planned cities such as Bath, with circuses and crescents replaced with cul-de-sacs, heavily monitored to be "secured by design". No one will call Northstowe "Osbornegrad", because it will never really be noticed.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree