Paul Kalanithi was a successful, brilliant almost-neurosurgeon about to graduate from his residency when he was diagnosed with lung cancer at the age of 36. “And with that, the future I had imagined, the one just about to be realized, the culmination of decades of striving, evaporated,” he writes.A little less than two years later, he was dead. A little less than three years later, Random House has published his memoir, When Breath Became Air, cobbled together from a variety of sources. To say that it has been greeted with praise is rather understating it. “I guarantee that finishing this book and then forgetting about it is simply not an option,” the New York Times raved.It is, of course, hard to forget a story about someone who had so much going for him dying just on the cusp of enjoying the life he’d built. But how does one properly review a book about death by a person who died? Do the terms “maudlin” or “sentimental” even properly apply if the author’s emotions are quite understandably at high ebb? Can you evaluate its sentences if you’re told the manuscript was unfinished because a treatment failed and the author died more quickly than he’d anticipated? When his wife says that his dying wish was that it be published in some form, does it even matter that it is unfinished?Before I die, some words for my baby daughter | Paul Kalanithi These are all questions raised by a book like Kalanithi’s, and they are difficult to answer without coming across as either credulous of a marketing campaign or insensitive to the plight of the author. In any event, the intellectual answers to these questions may not matter, because the book is already selling well. People are responding to his account of death and dying. Released on Tuesday, it will likely be on bestseller lists by the end of this week. It is going to be the kind of book people will recommend, insistent on its wisdom and powers of soothing, for the next few years. The only real question to ask is why we keep being drawn to this subject.Kalanithi’s book is hardly the first whose popularity is somehow leveraged by the pull of grief. Any number of hits over the past few years touch on issues of mortality, and they come from all over the publishing spectrum. They do not only crop up on the self-help and religious shelves. John Diamond’s C: Because Cowards Get Cancer Too was nominated for the Samuel Johnson prize when it was published in 1999. Tony Judt’s essay about his life with Lou Gehrig’s disease, Night, provoked an overwhelming response when it was published in the New York Review of Books in 2010. Today, readers of the London Review of Books now await the next installment of Jenny Diski’s memoirs with excitement. (She, characteristically, has wryly reflected on the appeal: “It’s a delicate balance, this publicising of one’s cancer.”)And all this in spite of our oft-affirmed aversion to facing death straight on. The popularity of these books does suggest some more complicated reaction afoot. We may not want to face death, but we are quite happy to read about it.The reason this sort of writing has such a hold on us is obvious, almost tautological. Facing your end gives you an automatic gravitas because it is, in fact, a grave thing to confront. These memoirs hold out the promise that you, too, will be able to cope once the eye of Sauron falls on you. Even if the tips are not practical in nature, often the mere lyricism people are able to bring to their tragic situations serves as its own kind of succor. When it comes your turn, you too may be able to make sense of it all by elegant resort to, say, the French existentialists. Anger will evaporate in the face of eloquence. Peace will be made with friends and family. Most importantly, there will be time to write up a bestselling manuscript that will ensure that you are remembered by millions. That’s the promise of cheating death, right there. And who isn’t up for that?