Slough is having a bit of a moment. As David Brent sings the town’s praises in the new Office movie (“it’s equidistant ’tween London and Reading”), the local football team are preparing to make a long-awaited return to the town after almost two decades of exile. Meanwhile, a band who regularly stood on the terraces at the old Wexham Park stadium cheering on Slough Town FC are preparing for their first UK tour since they split in 1993.Among the dozens of recent reformations in the world of indie, Thousand Yard Stare’s decision to get back together for a one-off show at London’s Borderline last year was not one of the more heralded. But then that came as no surprise to a band who once sold T-shirts emblazoned with the inscription Thousand Yard Who?Like many of the bands who emerged in that strange hinterland between Madchester and Britpop, Thousand Yard Stare’s legacy is probably best summed up by those fading, longsleeved shirts every self-respecting indie kid was wearing in the early 90s. But there was fine music, too, and listening to the band’s new album – which features newly recorded versions of the songs from their slim back catalogue – it’s not hard to see why they’re so fondly remembered by their diehard fans.TYS struggled to fit in from the start. After forming in 1990, Stephen Barnes (vocals), Giles Duffy (guitar), Sean McDonough (bass), Kevin Moxon (guitar) and Dominic Bostock (drums) soon earned a reputation as one of the most active live bands of the time and forged a niche as a support for hire. Too polite and clean-cut to be lumped in with the Midlands grebo crowd, they soon became synonymous with the punky likes of Senseless Things and Mega City Four before their Thames Valley origins saw them become shoegazers by association.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In truth, it was hard to pin down just what TYS were doing. United by a love of oddball eccentrics Cardiacs, they also seemed strongly influenced by James’s celebratory folksiness, but they were equally unafraid afraid to tap into the indie-dance sound or set off on a manic guitar-driven instrumental, as heard on their debut single Wonderment. There was an American influence, too, but it came from REM rather than Nirvana. Releasing their early singles on their own Stifled Aardvark label (it seemed funny at the time), the five-piece quickly developed a Windsor-based scene around the local college, the Revolution record shop and venues like the Arts Centre and the sadly missed Old Trout (best known for hosting pre-Reading festival shows by the likes of Pixies). Key to the band’s success was the lead singer: always a man-about-town, Barnes put on indie nights at the college and his dogged persistence secured TYS coveted support slots with the likes of Ned’s Atomic Dustbin, Carter USM and the Sandkings. With his bowl cut and long sideburns, the frontman also stood out in a period when fashion sense left the indie world far behind. And then there were his words. At a time when lyrical depth was stretching to killing your television or the size of a cow, the cricket-loving Barnes wrote about “books and clocks and ancient rocks” before pre-empting Damon Albarn’s Britpop battle against all things stars’n’stripes with the chorus of Cottager: “Sorry if I spoiled your American dream, don’t want to drown in your river, want to wallow in my stream.” On the band’s best-known track, he even managed to carry off that most difficult of tasks and produce one of the finest ever football metaphor songs. 0-0 a.e.t. (No Score After Extra Time) hurtled along on a wave of jangling guitars and fiddle from the Wonder Stuff’s Martin Bell.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest For a while everything seemed rosy. TYS scored a major label deal with Polydor, toured with the Jesus and Mary Chain, visited the US and had their hometown eating out of their hand at 1991’s legendary Slough festival – shoegazing’s Woodstock – where they appeared alongside Ride, Chapterhouse and Slowdive. Debut album Hands On scraped the Top 40, as did the fondly remembered indie disco skank of Comeuppance, but Suede and the reborn Blur began to offer a far sexier take on Barnes’s little Englander outlook. It was hardly a surprise when the Verve’s Richard Ashcroft remarked: “We don’t put our records among the Kingmakers and Thousand Yard Stares of this world, we put them as high as they can go.”With matey appreciation and a close connection with your audience soon replaced as the lingua franca of indie by the arrogance and blockbuster hits of Britpop, TYS were quickly branded as yesterday’s men despite a spirited effort to reclaim some ground with their second album Mappamundi (maps were a big thing in TYS folklore) and the nearly-hit, and fan favourite, Version of Me. Polydor dropped them, and the band quickly split before reforming without Barnes as Euphoria, with less-than-euphoric results.In the intervening years, Barnes has remained in the industry, managing younger bands and lecturing them on the pitfalls of major labels and the genius of Cardiacs. Meanwhile, TYS’s devotion to touring endlessly across the British isles two decades ago has paid off with their newly announced shows selling well, and the band once again taking their place alongside many of their early 90s contemporaries on the lineup of November’s Shiiine On Weekender. Brent would be proud. 