It has been presented as a David and Goliath battle – pitting a chain of UK comedy clubs against 20th Century Fox, the makers of Glee.But in the latest development, it was the US film studio that was largely left to lick its wounds after losing the first round of an appeal court battle against a ruling that the programme’s name must be changed.The owner of a British comedy business called the Glee Club had claimed victory in 2014 after a high court judge ruled that its trademark had been infringed by the US television show. The same judge rejected the claim that they were guilty of passing off, ruling that in law there had been no misrepresentation. Appeals by both sides were dismissed on Monday by Lord Justice Kitchin, sitting with Lady Justice Arden and Lord Justice Lloyd Jones.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sign of the Glee Club comedy venue in Birmingham. Photograph: Michael Scott/Barcroft MediaBut it emerged that the court fight was not over, as both sides also want to argue that the rulings are incompatible with European law. 20th Century Fox has already been ordered to pay £100,000 on account of damages that could run into millions.Jane Lynch: 'I came wired with extra angst' Rejecting the appeal over the finding of infringement, Lord Justice Kitchin said “there exists a likelihood of confusion”. Comic Enterprises opened its first Glee Club in 1994, providing venues for live stand-up comedy. It has venues in Birmingham, Cardiff, Nottingham and Oxford.With millions of dollars at stake, Fox said it would be a “disaster” if it had to change the name. In its action it has quoted the Oxford English dictionary saying “glee club” refers to choral singing societies in general.But the high court judge ruled that it was “fair and equitable” to order Fox to stop using “Glee” as the title for the series. A spokesperson for 20th Century Fox Television said: “We note the court of appeal’s decision and welcome its consideration of the outstanding issues. We remain committed to proving the merits of our case and to delivering Glee to all of its fans in the UK.”Glee, about a singing club in the fictional William McKinley high school in Lima, Ohio, made a star out of Jane Lynch. It originally aired in the UK on Channel 4 before the rights were bought by Sky.