John Cleese is in talks to make a surprise return to the BBC for a major sitcom, a year after saying he would never work for the broadcaster again.The 10 best Fawlty Towers moments The comedian, who co-created the comedy classics Fawlty Towers and Monty Python, could return in a starring role in the show, said Shane Allen, the BBC’s head of comedy. Last year, Cleese accused commissioning editors at his former employer of having “no idea of what they are doing” and said there was no way he would work for the corporation again.But Allen said the door is open for the 76-year-old to return and that talks are currently taking place about a new show.“We’re in discussions about a piece that he might be in,” he told the Telegraph. “It’s a sitcom and it’s very early days. He’s a comedy god and the door is always open to him. There are certain people who have earned their badges, who have got the right to do what they want.” A spokesman for Cleese confirmed a new sitcom is in development and that it will be Cleese who will write the script. “Very little has been decided regarding the BBC role,” he told the Guardian. “He has not written the script yet and it is only a medium-sized part.“If it is made it will be produced by Humphrey Barclay, who directed Cambridge Circus in 1963,” he added. Barclay has other credits including Do Not Adjust Your Set, Doctor in the House, Metal Mickey, Birds of a Feather and Spaced.Allen, who has enticed Cleese’s fellow Python Eric Idle back for an hour-long Christmas special, said the BBC had been guilty of an “obsession with the new”, which meant it had neglected some older stars.He cited the example of Tracey Ullman, who returned to the BBC earlier this year after 30 years away. “Someone said to her, ‘Why have you come back to the BBC after all this time?’ She said, ‘Because they asked me’. That’s the truth. Often times there were a lot of very, very talented elder statesmen who just don’t get asked.”Allen was speaking ahead of the BBC’s landmark sitcom season, which begins on Sunday at 9pm with modern takes on Porridge and Are You Being Served?