A shadowy presence stalks London’s Stolen Space Gallery, hurrying from the edge of viewers’ vision, slipping across mirrors. But the blurred figure flitting among the Technicolor whirls of duo Kai and Sunny’s latest exhibition, Whirlwind of Time, isn’t a video installation or a piece of performance art – it’s the narrator of a short story written specially for the show by David Mitchell.My Eye on You marks the return of a character from Mitchell’s Booker prize-longlisted novel The Bone Clocks, describing how the critic Richard Cheeseman turns away from a desperate plan to revenge himself on the ageing novelist Crispin Hershey and discovers an ability to shift the flow of time. Downstairs in Reception, a dozen kids stood still as waxworks. I can’t avoid the simile. Waxworks moving in slow time, if you watched for long enough. One girl was flinging back her hair, as if a model in an ad for L’Oréal shampoo. Golden filaments floated, swayed, like sea-anemones.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Stories have their own right length that a writer can’t do much about’ … David Mitchell. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianThe story is the latest instalment of a collaboration that stretches back to 2003, when Kai and Sunny designed a cover for Mitchell’s Booker-shortlisted novel Cloud Atlas. After creating covers for his next novel and his entire backlist, the duo – Kai Clements and Anthony Sunter – asked the author if he’d like to write a short story to accompany their 2011 exhibition The Flower Show.“I think they wanted something people might actually want to read rather than a mouthful of that impenetrable conceptual language you often get in art show catalogues that very few read, fewer understand and nobody enjoys,” says Mitchell.The Gardener, in which a man watches over primroses and crocuses at sunset, was the result. The collaboration later continued with the duo producing a set of illustrations for Naoki Higashida’s The Reason I Jump, an account of living with autism, which was translated by Mitchell and his wife, KA Yoshida. An exhibition inspired by the book, called Caught by the Nest, followed in 2013. For this, Mitchell wrote another short story, Lots of Bits of Star – a sequel to The Gardener, featuring a child narrator who has autism.According to Kai Clements, the duo’s latest work “has a different feel to it so in theory takes on a different story”.“The show revolves around the passage of time,” Clements says. “In the works we’ve explored areas such as turning tides, changing weather and time for reflection. The series balances the serene with the intense, the fragile with the stable and the peaceful with the chaotic.”The works on paper measure approximately a metre in both width and height, and are created using brightly coloured ballpoint pens, building up images of dizzying complexity out of single lines.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The image entitled Whirlwind of Time. Photograph: Kai and Sunny“Everything has its place with no overlapping or shading,” Clements explains. “We feel by creating our work this way you only use what you need.” I dimly remembered a medieval theory that light rays were emitted by the human eye, and these ideas fed into the story Mitchell says that he received a print of a drawing in the exhibition before writing My Eye on You and “felt like it was a picture of God’s retina. I also dimly remembered a medieval theory that light rays were emitted by the human eye, and these ideas fed into the story.”The theme of time inspired him to “try to visit the head of a person who is endowed with a kind of ‘temporal hotspot’ which means their own personal time moves at a different velocity to everyone else’s”, Mitchell explains. “A character from my last big novel, The Bone Clocks, applied for the job, and he was the perfect candidate. The story grew to about 2,500 words – longer than my previous two Kai and Sunny stories combined – but stories have their own right length that a writer can’t do much about.”The story is displayed alongside the image that inspired it, in a letter-pressed box-set edition of 25. The exhibition also features work on copper and a set of four skate decks.Mitchell jokes that he’s planning a return for his fading novelist in “a scene set in the late 1960s where Crispin’s a toddler with an aromatic diaper”, but can’t explain how Kai and Sunny’s images spark stories. “If I knew the answer, I’d bottle it.”Kai and Sunny’s Whirlwind of Time is at the StolenSpace Gallery, London, 3 March-3 April. 