Where does Bransholme start? There’s no “Welcome to … ” sign on any of the approach roads. Sutton Park, the neighbouring private development, kind of blends into it. Then suddenly you’re there, in a land of houses without chimneys, grass verges the size of fields and looping ring-roads that don’t always end where you expect them to.Follow one of these arteries round, and you’ll end up at the heart: the North Point shopping centre. In May, Bransholme, the huge postwar housing development on Hull’s north-eastern edge, turns 50 – and North Point is marking the anniversary with a photo exhibition recounting the journey from boggy building site to town-sized estate that’s now home to 30,000 people.The display, in a disused shop unit, is a whistle-stop tour, beginning with Bransholme’s prehistory – it was once home to an RAF barrage balloon base – and ending with images of refurbished schools and the first new houses to be built here for 40 years. It doesn’t ignore the problems of a sometimes troubled estate, widely (though wrongly) believed to be the largest in Europe. But overall the tone is positive – a celebration of a place that has “transformed into a stable, mature community”.  The way Hull is represented around the country – Hull looks at Bransholme the same way, without getting to know itChris Smith But this is more than mere nostalgia. Bransholme’s 50th anniversary happens to coincide with Hull’s year as UK city of culture and, like the city-wide event, is a subtle exercise in place branding.“It’s simple,” says Chris Smith of Bransholme Community Arts Enterprise (BCAE), which is coordinating many of the celebrations, including pop-up poetry, reminiscence sessions and a heritage sculpture trail. “Fifty years ago, they began putting bricks down, creating this colossal housing estate. [Since then] it’s become synonymous with many of the negative things about public housing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An aerial view of the Bransholme Estate and North Point shopping centre“The way Hull is represented around the country – “What would you want to go there for?” – Hull looks at Bransholme the same way, without bothering to get to know it.”So where does Bransholme really start? The culverts that run parallel to many of the estate’s roads offer a clue. They’re part of a drainage system started in the 13th century by monks from the nearby Abbey of Meaux (pronounced “muse”) to allow the grazing of sheep on this water meadow or “holm”. And it was to this “Braunceholm”, first recorded in the Cistercians’ ledgers, that the founders of Britain’s latest new town turned when looking for a name. At a civic luncheon held in May 1967 to celebrate the official opening of Bransholme, Hull’s then lord mayor, Herbert Walford Anderson, articulated a celestial vision for the estate. “It could be an almost heavenly development,” he said, “giving scope for infinite variety and the opportunity to create a real community.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Bransholme Centre in 1988 ... Photograph: Hull Daily MailSuch language speaks volumes about the utopian spirit of the time. Bransholme, like the estates and new towns springing up all over Britain, seemed the best solution to the dereliction and destitution of inner city slums. It represented progress, a concrete incarnation of the postwar consensus of free healthcare and social security for all. And just as the golden age of the welfare state had originated in Beveridge’s five “giant evils” – disease, want, ignorance, squalor and idleness – the idea for Hull’s new town was first mooted in another wartime report, Patrick Abercrombie and Edwin Lutyens’ Plan for Kingston upon Hull.   In the foreword of this blueprint for Hull’s postwar reconstruction – the Blitz killed 1,200 people in Hull and made half the population homeless – Alderman Leo Schultz wrote of “the heroism of the ordinary citizen under an incessant bombardment”. This “fairer and nobler city” was to be their reward. The great planners had envisaged the East Riding village of Burton Constable, nine miles north-east of central Hull, as the ideal location for their model community. But postwar scarcity made the development unaffordable and the council started buying up farmland closer to home.Sutton-on-Hull remains a picture book of pubs, cafes and shops, beaded together along a meandering high street. This rural “exclave” seems a world away from the North Point shopping centre, just around the corner.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ... and as North Point shopping centre todayJune Irvine, who volunteers at the village museum, moved from an inner city terrace to Bransholme with her parents in 1968. “It was a building site, just mud and more mud. You had to walk to wherever you lived. There was no green, no trees. Shops weren’t there. There was nothing there.”But the family soon adjusted. “[We’d] never had a bathroom before. In the old house, it was a tin bath on the wall of the yard you used to bring in. When we moved we had a kitchen, bathroom and garden, front and back. My dad liked his gardening when he got there because he’d never done it before. He did that every day.”It’s a common enough experience among the first residents of Hull’s new edge-of-town estates – the private “luxuries” of an indoor toilet and garden compensating for the public discomforts of half-finished roads and inadequate amenities. While some residents never adapted to the new life, those who did, like June, have remained fiercely loyal.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bransholme, like the estates and new towns springing up all over Britain, seemed the best solution to the dereliction and destitution of inner city slums. Photograph: Hull Daily Mail“I’ve lived on Bransholme and there’s nothing wrong with it,” she says. It’s a phrase I hear again and again, a defensiveness against the negative media portrayal Bransholme has endured for much of its existence. As one of three film-makers involved this year in documentaries wholly or partly based on Bransholme (the BBC and Sean McAllister are the others), Neal Coulman, a former resident, is determined to break away from the stereotypes of estate life to provide a snapshot of the working community that has gelled over the last 50 years. His effort is partly a response to two BBC films made about Bransholme in the 1980s and 90s.The first, the somewhat downbeat Heart of Bransholme, provoked an angry response from local councillors who saw its portrayal of high unemployment and an estate ill at ease with itself as inaccurate. For example, the film dwells on mounted police patrols around the shopping centre, as if a riot could break out at any time. In fact, claims Coulman, this was the regular exercise route for horses from the nearby police stables. But, he adds, the documentary also had a galvanising effect on the local community, particularly in its battle with the council to do something about the so-called “misery maisonettes” that had become a byword for damp, vandalism and crime. “The first documentary was a kick up the backside for the council. It prompted residents in the maisonettes to lock themselves in the rent office. As a result, the head of housing had to look at the issues with the flats.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oakington Garth on the Bransholme estate in 2013. Photograph: Ian SThe Bransholme he sees today is much changed. “It’s become a beautiful place,” he says, pointing to the popularity of the estate on council house-swap websites. And with the early design faults, such as the notoriously expensive under-floor heating now largely rectified, the problems here are less to do with physical infrastructure than with simply having enough money to live. It could be an almost heavenly development … and the opportunity to create a real communityLord mayor Herbert Walford Anderson in 1967 The ability of families to support themselves was never a serious issue when the first residents moved to Bransholme in 1967. Unskilled and semi-skilled jobs were plentiful, not only in fishing and on the docks, but also in the many manufacturing industries, including flour and oils, that once clustered around the river Hull. June Irvine’s father worked at Humber Fishing and Fish Manure, while she worked at Reckitts, one of hundreds employed at its east Hull pharmaceutical detergent factory.Within 10 years, Hull’s deepwater fishing fleet had been all but scrapped, and by the time Heart of Bransholme aired in 1985, unemployed factory workers were joining the children of former trawlermen down at the job centre. Today, Bransholme east and west are ranked as the 37th and 38th most deprived of England’s 7,529 council wards.It’s not that Bransholmers lack entrepreneurial spirit or aspiration. Debbie, now in her 50s, has lived on the estate all her adult life. Right now, she’s a domestic cleaner and housekeeper and runs a mobile party business on the side, but she’s also had shop jobs and once did a stint at a debt collection agency.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Youngsters wait to try their hand at pool in the Bransholme Youth Centre. Photograph: Hull Daily Mail“I’m keeping busy and I’m doing all right but I’m knackered!” she says. Like many others, she can’t imagine wanting to live anywhere except Bransholme. “I think I’d be lonely [somewhere else]. On an estate, you’ve got all sorts, all ages. I’d miss it.”For others, the outlook is far bleaker. About 40 local families depend on the weekly food bank at St John’s church. “We’re supporting everyone from very young families to pensioners,” the Rev Matt Martinson says in the church hall where the food is stored. “They face the choice of paying the bills or buying food. We’ve had a few suicides because the pressure has been too much.”Lindsay is a regular at the food bank. Having spent the last seven years bringing up her children on her own, she’s had little luck in her job search and has seen her income halved by the bedroom tax and limits on other benefits. Christmas was particularly hard. “Gas and electricity is the big expense,” she said. “I had to get someone to wire my electricity. It’s against the law, but Christmas would have been bad enough without having power as well. The kid who did it was charging £10 a go. He said he’d done it for about 30 other people.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The former Sutton-on-Hull RAF station which was cleared to make way for Bransholme. Photograph: Hull Daily MailThe church is trying to raise £500,000 for a new hall, cafe and garden, as well as space for small businesses. A similar venture – also church-run – already exists on the north of the estate, where the former Pennine Rambler pub has been converted into a community hub.It’s part of the regeneration of north Bransholme that began following the transfer of council homes to Riverside housing association 10 years ago.North Bransholme sits on a kind of “limb” from the rest of the estate, where the city rubs shoulders with the countryside. You could wander off the main road and end up on a nature reserve or a naturist resort, peer around a hedge and see a ploughed field or a solar farm. It’s probably the closest you’ll get to experiencing the isolation, blissful or otherwise, that Bransholme’s first residents felt. London 0, Hull plenty: how is life in England's only 'affordable city'? Artist Liz Dorton and her husband Andy, a local councillor, talk approvingly of the changes since Riverside took over. Selective demolitions and improvements to the remaining houses have staunched the exodus of people, they say. Liz’s art, which ranges from sculpture to puppetry, explores links between landscape and history – the medieval “water wars” between Hull and its neighbours; the local river mud, prized by the monks of Meaux as raw material for floor tiles. But can art really leave a positive legacy for Bransholme, when there are so many more basic concerns to address?Liz argues that the new community centre demonstrates how art can contribute. “There’s a cafe there, growing veg. The idea is to do cheap food and put on occasional performances. It’s a place where people can do useful, worthwhile, interesting and creative things.” Andy is interested to see how the city of culture festival engages Bransholme residents. “We need lots more people to have personal, upfront experiences of art by doing it themselves,” he says. “Most of these kids aren’t going to have wonderful futures. [But] quality of life can improve massively through arts and culture as long as you’ve got a basic income.”The lives of the people of Bransholme have always been tied up with economic forces beyond their control. The estate’s ancestors may have believed they were creating a heaven on earth, but when the the first bricks were laid in the Holderness mud, it was not really a beginning but an end – to postwar economic security. And with Brexit and continuing austerity offering no respite for Britain’s poorest communities, a happier sequel might have to wait.Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook to join the discussion, and explore our archive here