We don’t know how popular The Grand Tour is. Online content behemoths don’t feel obliged to share viewing figures, and Amazon have made do with describing it as “the biggest show premiere ever on Amazon Prime Video”. According to “piracy market data analysts” MUSO, it’s the most illegally downloaded show in the world. Even more illegally downloaded than Game of Thrones. But what proportion of the total audience is made up of illegals we don’t know. And quite who that audience actually is, we have not much of a clue at all. Top Gear was a British television show that found an international audience. The Grand Tour is an international show. According to the head of Netflix Ted Sarandos, who admittedly is not an unbiased observer, Amazon paid $250m to make 36 episodes of The Grand Tour. That is not the sort of budget usually afforded to a local TV show (each episode of Game of Thrones season six cost $10m – and you got dragons with that). When The Grand Tour launched last month it did so in four markets; the UK, the US, Germany and Japan. The full global rollout comes this month. The Grand Tour tent, meanwhile, is being put up everywhere from Johannesburg to Dubai. But is this show truly something for the global village?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Defiantly, almost foolhardily English … The Grand Tour. Photograph: Ellis O'Brian There is an aspect to The Grand Tour that feels defiantly, almost foolhardily English. Of the five episodes so far, two have been staged in Whitby (a lovely town but not quite as internationally renowned as the other destinations, Palm Springs, Johannesburg and Rotterdam). The badinage, of which there is a lot, including an element called Conversation Street, finds humour in polite decorum being ruptured by Jeremy Clarkson’s wilful boorishness. That’s a very English style. The tame racing car driver is called “the American” and is the British idea of a redneck (though to give him his due, he spends most of his time on screen tearing a strip off everything European). Then there’s James May, a character so ineffably English that even his physical actions should come with subtitles. So on the one hand you could imagine that The Grand Tour is selling a particular kind of Britishness to the world. On the other hand, there’s Richard Hammond bundled under the boot of an Audi TT. In case you missed the skit from last week’s episode, Hammond was stashed under a detachable bumper to prove how easy it would be to smuggle a migrant over a hard border, should you be so inclined and in possession of the appropriate German sports car. The segment was introduced by Clarkson, who described migrants hiding in container lorries as “the world’s worst game of hide and seek” and speculated that “there must be a better way to get into Britain”. Soon enough, Hammond was bundled under the bumper and used as an impromptu parking radar. Now, believe it or not, I’m not interested in talking about why, in a world full of trouble, anyone would choose to make light of the trauma some will endure for a chance at the life so many of us take for granted. What I’m interested in is who it was for. In a Top Gear incarnation it would make sense – the audience was Middle England/Yorkshire dads who vote Tory and have an important functionary’s position at the golf club. But in The Grand Tour version? Well, Clarkson was very careful to use the term “homeland security” when talking about customs officials, so perhaps he’s got the US minutemen constituency in mind. Given their decision to accept one million migrants from Syria, perhaps it plays big in Germany too. As well as the migrant scene there was a skit about transgender traffic lights, which were apparently real but not put in context and therefore not only mockable in themselves but allowed to stand for a greater, broader idea of political correctness gone mad. Finally, the show’s main feature – an amusing race of “environmentally friendly” cars, in which Clarkson contrived to build a structure entirely from leftover butchers’ bones – seemed like it had been set up entirely for the purposes of delivering the ultimate punchline “environmentalism doesn’t work”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Environmentalism doesn’t work’ … last week, Clarkson contrived to build a structure made entirely from leftover butchers’ bones. Photograph: Ellis O'Brian All this stuff is a chauvinist strain of Englishness from which Top Gear always derived its most devoted viewers. But The Grand Tour’s success seems dependent on it having international appeal. After all, as has already been observed, The Grand Tour isn’t much about cars. There’s one review a week, pretty much. The main features have steered away from the actual capabilities of motor vehicles, concentrating instead on the characters. Or character. The Grand Tour is about Clarkson. Or Clarksonism.Middle-aged white men angry at the world may be having a moment right now, but are they really that big in Japan? Does frustration at PC culture really boil people’s blood outside of the anglo-saxon west? We may never know, or at least, we’ll only get a sense when Amazon choose whether to renew the show or not. But as much as his fans might like to imagine otherwise, there may be limits to the appeal of Clarksonism. A final word from non-biased actor Sarandos: “We knew what it was worth,” he said. “We made a play for that show, definitely, but we’ve had every season of Top Gear on Netflix in most territories in the world, so we had a better sense than most of what the audience was for Top Gear on our platform.”