My writing day? Ho ho, those were the days! When one had a “writing day”. Before the advent of No 1: old age, and No 2: partner, wife, whoever, getting long-term incurable illnesses. These slightly disturb the cosy pattern of the working week. A whole day to yourself! When was that last experienced?In 1958, I got my first 30 bob a week bedsit and was earning a living as a self-employed illustrator. This was what got me into writing. I was often amazed at how bad some of the stories I was given to illustrate were. Golly, I thought, I could do better myself! So I tried to write one and sent it to the editor for some advice. To my utter amazement, he said he would publish it. Just shows what the standard was. Me, a kid of 24.But then, writing in general, and children’s books in particular, is such a quick procedure that it’s difficult to understand how anyone could do it for hour after hour, all day long, as if they were writing War and Peace. With cartoons or the so-called graphic novel, it is a slightly different matter: you can easily spend more than two weeks on a single page. Writing, drawing and design are all going on at the same time. In most publishers there is more than one person at work: writer, designer, illustrator and colourist. But there are some who do the whole jolly lot themselves, can you believe?In the 50s, I did spend all day doing it, but this was illustrating, which takes far longer than writing. I remember saying to friends one day, the best time to work is 5pm to midnight. Shops and banks are closed, people you’re working for have gone home – you’ve got a full working day with no distractions or interruptions. Just imagine trying to do that today.So there was time for a solid working day, despite my neighbouring bedsitter Jean frequently screaming throughout the day. She had schizophrenia, had never gone to work, so was there all the time. These fits were what she called “my attacks”. During them she would lie on her bed, tossing and writhing as if in agony. Not much help to the hardworking young fellow in the next room. But we soon became very close and got married in 1963. I don’t like marriage – it seems daft to mix up love and the law unless there are children – but I thought it might give Jean a sense of stability. The best time to work is 5pm to midnight. Shops and banks are shut – you have a full working day Later, in 1973, when she was in hospital dying of leukaemia, there was a bit more time for a working day in the gaps between hospital visiting hours. I was doing my Father Christmas book at the time and used to take in the latest spreads to show her. Even then, when trying to work, it was difficult to concentrate, having just seen schizophrenia and leukaemia doing their worst together at the same time.Later, I met Liz in our local pub and we started a long friendship that lasted for the following 40 years. She was divorced and had two children, aged eight and six, and one or two lodgers, so there was no room for me to live with her. I stayed in my house and went to Liz in the evenings. Now, there was time for a working day and I could just get on with it. During this time I did Fungus the Bogeyman, which took over two years, and as light relief after that, The Snowman and other books.This went on until Liz developed Parkinson’s disease, which led to dementia and continued for so many years I lost count. Eventually, she had to go into a care home for many months, until she died in October 2015.Hey ho, on we go. A full working day at last. But then old age came clattering in – 18 January 2017, my 83rd birthday. As an old chum gleefully pointed out: “Entered your 84th year, Briggo!”• Raymond Briggs has received the 2017 Book Trust lifetime achievement award. Among his most famous books are The Snowman and Fungus the Bogeyman, published by Puffin.