They say that despair is fine, but hope will kill you in the end. God knows that has been true this past week. Time after time, as we’ve hopelessly searched for something – anything – that can bail us out of this desperate Brexit mess, our hopes have been gratuitously dashed against the rocks of misfortune over and over again.Maybe there’ll be a second referendum, we thought. Maybe Article 50 will never get triggered. Maybe Labour will present a unified and credible opposition, or the English national football team will restore our wounded pride, or someone – anyone – with a scrap of authority will do something that doesn’t resemble the panic-stricken flailing of a sad old circus clown who has just set his trousers on fire in the middle of a petrol station forecourt. But no. We’re screwed. We were screwed when we woke up last Friday and we’re screwed now.But what stings, what really hurts more than the rest of this combined, is that Keanu Reeves isn’t our new prime minister.When photos started to emerge of Keanu Reeves strolling around parliament on Tuesday, pulses instantly began to quicken. For one beautiful moment, it looked to all the world like Reeves was being shown around his new digs. The look on his face certainly seemed to reflect that; a picture of amused confusion, it was the exact same expression that you would pull if you had just been handed the keys to a country that won’t stop kicking itself in the mouth. Could it be? Might Keanu have been recruited as the beatific unifying figure that our country so sorely needed?Sadly not. The mundane truth of the matter is that Reeves was simply in parliament because Stratford-on-Avon MP Nadhim Zahawi had invited him to discuss the expansion of the film industry in the West Midlands. And it turns out that he was just pulling that face because, well, that’s just what his face looks like.This, you will agree, is a crying shame. Our country desperately needs a leader, and Keanu Reeves is leadership incarnate. Honestly, just check his CV.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leadership qualities: Reeves and Sandra Bullock in Speed. Photograph: Sportsphoto/AllstarThere was Speed, in which Reeves found himself at the wheel of a runaway bus, which is obviously the perfect metaphor for post-Brexit Britain.There was Point Break, in which he had to learn to walk among dangerous criminals without flinching, which is obviously the perfect metaphor for post-Brexit Britain.There was the last half of the third Matrix movie, in which he thrashed around blind for three quarters of an hour and then died, which is… well, look, you get the idea.It goes on. If you’ve ever seen The Lake House or the Bill and Ted movies, you’ll know that Reeves has a natural affinity for time travel. This makes him better positioned than anyone else to journey back and provide Nigel Farage with the barest modicum of compassion as a baby, helping him to grow up as a normal human and not the demonically possessed unofficial Wind in the Willows figurine made of nicotine and tooth decay that he is now.Plus, if you’ve ever seen Bram Stoker’s Dracula, you’ll know that Reeves is perfectly capable of pulling off a convincing British accent, as long as you’re willing to suspend disbelief and pretend that the average British accent makes you sound like a concussed surfer choking to death on a leather shoelace. If Keanu Reeves doesn’t fancy being our prime minister, let’s elect the Sad Keanu photo instead But more than this – more than anything – there is Sad Keanu. Remember Sad Keanu? The photo of Reeves looking dishevelled and bereft, sullenly eating a sandwich on a park bench next to a miserable pile of discarded plastic bags, quickly struck a chord with the public when it was published back in 2010. It still does. If ever one photograph was able to sum up the mood of an entire nation in the aftermath of a bruising referendum result then it’s Sad Keanu. That photo should be on his campaign posters. It should be his entire campaign. Hell, if Keanu Reeves doesn’t fancy being our prime minister, let’s elect the Sad Keanu photo instead. It couldn’t be any worse that the leadership we’ve got now.But it isn’t too late. Keanu may have left parliament, but his spirit has lifted the place. If we really have to pin our false hopes on anything, then please let it be Keanu for PM. He’s attractive and charismatic. He’s strong enough to defeat the bad guys, but sensitive enough to care. He’s a bit Canadian. He’s the closest we’ll ever get to Trudeau. So come back, Keanu. Come back and lead us. This country needs unity and, after all, Neo is an anagram of One. We need you, Keanu. We need you to teach us how to be excellent to each other.