An unassuming 15-year-old boy inadvertently hatches a dragon from an egg and embarks on a quest to avenge his uncle after becoming a dragon rider:   Eragon – Christopher Paolini Correct!    Sabriel – Garth Nix    Firelight – Sophie Jordan    Dragon Rider – Cornelia Funke A young princess needs more than just a plaster for her injured finger, after she is cursed by an evil witch(/fairy), who just happens to be able to turn into a dragon:   Daughter of Smoke and Bone – Lauri Taylor    Seraphina – Rachel Hartman    Sleeping Beauty – Charles Perrault/Disney Correct!    The Hobbit – JRR Tolkien A particularly fierce clan of Vikings have been seriously misjudging dragons for years:   Raising Dragons – Brian Davis    How to Train Your Dragon – Cressida Cowell Correct!    Eragon – Christopher Paolini    Seraphina – Rachel Hartman Someone decides it's a good idea to make four teenagers try to steal a fake dragon egg from four very angry dragons. All in the name of what is basically an inter-school sports day… but with more fire:   Dragonsong – Anne McCaffrey    Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire – JK Rowling Correct!    Scorched – Mari Mancusi    Incarceron – Catherine Fisher His name strikes fear across the land, he's destroyed armies and terrorised villages and now sleeps guard on a hoard of gold, shut away in a mountain. That is, until one unassuming burglar finds his way inside:   The Blue Sword – Robin McKinley    Firebolt – Adrienne Woods    Valiant – Holly Black    The Hobbit – JRR Tolkien Correct! More dragon riding – this time it's all part of the search for the mythical Rim of Heaven:   Hexwood – Diana Wynne Jones    Dragon Rider – Cornelia Funke Correct!    Chosen – Ted Dekker    The Reluctant Dragon – Kenneth Grahame She might think of them as her children, but there's no doubt that this mother needs to work on keeping her dragons under control:   Game of Thrones – George RR Martin Correct!    The Queen of Attolia – Megan Whalen Turner    Eragon – Christopher Paolini    Firelight – Sophie Jordan You would think that when your landlady makes tiny clay dragons that spontaneously come to life, you might consider moving house… But no:   Talking to Dragon's – Patricia C. Wrede    Valiant – Holly Black    The Last Dragon Chronicles – Chris D'Lacey Correct!    How to train your Dragon – Cressida Cowell He's a poet and a gentleman. But it just so happens he's also a dragon. Cue an unlikely deception in the English countryside, involving St George himself:   Zog – Julia Donaldson    Puff the Magic Dragon – Peter Yarrow    Dragons Love Tacos – Adam Rubin    The Reluctant Dragon – Kenneth Grahame Correct! A young boy is taught a serious lesson after putting on a bracelet in a dragon's hoard. (Clue: he almost deserved it) :   Crown Duel – Sherwood Smith    Hexwood – Diana Wynne Jones    The Voyage of the Dawn Treader – CS Lewis Correct! "There was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb and he almost deserved it!"    Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring – JRR Tolkien You got…Well done!Challenge your friendsSubmit answersWhat are your favourite books about dragons? Let us know on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks