Nick Cave decided to make a documentary about his new album Skeleton Tree to avoid having to discuss the painful subject of his son Arthur’s death with the media, said One More Time With Feeling director Andrew Dominik.Dominik, best known for feature films such as The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford and Killing Them Softly, was speaking to journalists as One More Time With Feeling received its world premiere at the Venice film festival.“Nick went into a newsagent in Brighton and saw a copy of Mojo; he realised he was going to have to promote the record. Arthur had died halfway through making it. And the idea of [promoting] it made him feel sick, because he was going to have to discuss the context of the record with a whole bunch of journalists. That prospect was very alarming to him. His instinct in making the film was one of self-preservation: it was a way to talk about what happened, but there was a certain safety in doing it with someone he knew.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Arthur Cave. Photograph: Family Handout/PAFifteen-year-old Arthur died in July 2015 after falling from a cliff near Cave’s home in Brighton. It was revealed at the subsequent inquest that he had taken LSD for the first time shortly before the accident.Dominik said that Cave had called him in December of that year to ask him to direct the film, and they started shooting in February 2016. The original plan, he said, was to document a performance of Skeleton Tree’s songs, but as the record lasts 35 minutes, “we had to come up with other stuff ... the whole movie is basically improvised”.One More Time With Feeling review – undeniably moving contemplation of loss One More Time With Feeling contains long sequences of Cave musing on philosophical issues surrounding his son’s death, and its relation to his own life and work. Dominik opted to shoot it largely in black and white and 3D, though there are short sections in colour. However, Dominik said that making the film was not likely to have been “therapeutic” for Cave. “Nick deals with everything in life by working, if his heart is broken he can turn it into a song, everything is a grist for the mill. But I don’t think the film, or the songs, helped him with his grief. Perhaps momentarily. But this thing is so big, you can’t even get your arms around it.”The Venice film festival continues until 10 September.