Environmentalists have condemned a budget deal in Congress to lift a 40-year ban on US crude oil exports as “a disaster for the climate”.Republicans have trumpeted the move as a major victory that will create 1m jobs and add $170bn to annual GDP. They argue that the restriction, imposed in 1975 during chronic oil shortages, has been rendered obsolete by burgeoning US supplies enabled by new drilling methods.But the pressure group Oil Change International claimed the bipartisan compromise represented a backward step just days after Barack Obama helped forge a landmark climate change agreement in Paris.Stephen Kretzmann, its executive director, said: “Just days after we all were given new hope in Paris, the empire has struck back. Congress’s response to an historic climate deal? Incentivise further oil production. It’s hard to imagine a clearer example of how far politics still has to go on climate in order to catch up with the science.”He added: “This deal to lift the export ban is a disaster for the climate and for American communities that our children will view as a cynical indictment of a corrupt political system not yet willing to confront the powerful interests behind the climate crisis.“The good news is that the rebellion confronting Big Oil’s empire is more powerful outside the halls of Congress than within them. If they want to expand production, they are going to have to build more infrastructure, and we will be there fighting permit approvals and blocking construction with our bodies if need be.”The measure came as Congress reached an agreement on a $1.1tn spending bill to fund the government for the 2016 budget year and extend $680bn in tax cuts for businesses and individuals. Paul Ryan, the House speaker, described it as “a big win for American jobs and for our energy industry”. He claimed that in the past few years alone, the US has lost 80,000 jobs because oil producers have been forced to scale back their rigs by nearly 60%.But Obama has previously threatened to veto such legislation, contending that it will not address the country’s energy problems. On Wednesday, his press secretary, Josh Earnest, expressed disappointment that Congress had intervened.“That is something we did not support,” he said in a White House briefing. “Frankly, we still don’t support it. Our objection has primarily been along procedural grounds. This is authority that was already vested with the administration. We believe legislation in this regard was unnecessary.”But Earnest said the president was not “overly concerned” with its substance because the US already exports 4.3m barrels a day of refined petroleum, while existing legal waivers allow the export of half a million barrels of crude oil each day.“Yes, this is a legislative action that would require the lifting of this ban, but the fact is there were already substantial oil products, both refined and crude, that were being exported.”The spokesman also pointed out that Democrats won green tradeoffs including five-year extensions of credits for wind and solar energy producers and a renewal of a land and water conservation fund. They also blocked Republican proposals to thwart clean air and water regulations.The Obama administration has trebled wind power, making the US the biggest producer in the world, and overseen a 30-fold increase in solar energy, a sector that creates jobs at 10 times the rate of the economy, Earnest said. “When you take a look at the entire package, I think the country can feel good about how this budget reflects the priorities the president has laid out when it comes to transitioning to renewable energy.”However, the Democrats got the worse of the horse trading, according to Kretzmann. “When it comes to the ‘deal’, the extension on wind and solar tax credits appears weak: a lot was given up and little was gained for climate champions in this agreement,” he said.“Importantly, this move guts any remaining credibility of Big Oil when it pretends to be on the side of everyday Americans. They just took the first law designed to promote energy independence and repealed it, all in the name of desperate attempts to increase profits.”But there was disagreement from commentators such as Phil Flynn, senior energy analyst at the Price Futures Group. “I’m very excited and might crack a few barrels of oil to celebrate,” he said. “We’ve finally got to the point where the politicians decided it makes sense, and it does. The reasons the ban was in place don’t exist any more. We were worried about a cartel cutting off our oil supply. Now we have the opposite problem: a glut of oil.“Lifting the ban is going to allow the free flow of oil instead of a bottleneck that’s been created in part by a policy that doesn’t make sense any more.”The move will allow US energy companies to compete “on a level playing field” and help the world avoid price spikes at times of political turbulence, Flynn added.The tax and spending bill also reauthorises national intelligence programmes, tightens several security requirements of the visa waiver programme – denying visa waivers to people who have travelled to countries such as Syria and Iraq in the past five years – and includes cybersecurity legislation that would encourage companies to share threat information with the government. In addition, Congress was poised to approve a long-awaited overhaul of the International Monetary Fund, giving more voting power at the global lending agency to fast-growing emerging market countries such as China and India.The House will vote on the tax package on Thursday and the spending bill on Friday. Senate passage of both measures would come after another year of bitter divisions that forced speaker John Boehner to step down. Obama is widely expected to sign the pact.