Nightingales have played the unwitting muse to human poets, playwrights and composers for centuries, from Shakespeare and Hardy to Coleridge and Tchaikovsky. Last year, Nitin Sawhney received a front-row performance from one such feathered troubadour during the making of TV show The Animal Symphony – an experience the initially sceptical composer described to me as “a revelation”. This month, the organisers behind the UK’s National nightingale festival are hoping to give us all a chance to enjoy these notoriously shy and increasingly rare icons, with a month of guided walks, talks and nature concerts, combining live folk music and storytelling with in situ birdsong. It’s a fine way to honour the return of these small, brown, thrush-like beauties, who winter in west Africa before flying over 2,500 miles to spend summer in the English countryside. British bards have been praising the songbird since the 13th century, in everything from medieval rounds to 60s pop classics. But multiple factors – pollution; deforestation; pesticides; global warming; illegal trappers; domestic cats – increasingly threaten our plumed pals’ existence. The nightingale’s rapid, sapid call – once common throughout the UK – is now sadly elusive, confined to a shrinking area of south and east England. Nightingale numbers have fallen by 90% in the last half-century, leaving just 6,000 in the UK, while the largest “protected” reserve at Lodge Hill, Kent, is under threat from Medway council’s land development plans – a move the RSPB valiantly resists. It’s the same, troubling story for many of our once-thriving songbird populations. Robins, linnets, tits, finches, starlings, skylarks, corn buntings, garden warblers and song thrushes are all disappearing, and with them the phrases and melodies that have coloured gardens, parks, streets and riversides for centuries. When pushed, nature’s original tweeters can prove plucky. Recent studies have revealed that urban types including robins, blackbirds and sparrows have adapted their songs in recent decades, increasing their volume to better compete with growing noise pollution. This is a boon for city-dwelling bird-fanciers like me. I feel the same, giddy thrill from a garden robin’s golden, fluting tune as I do from Rihanna’s melisma; the same flood of rapture from the nutty wooden tattoo of a Richmond Park woodpecker or a starling’s queer whistle as I get from an epic Dimebag solo. For Richard Smyth, author of A Sweet Wild Note, the blackcap’s song is king. This distinctive greyish warbler produces a tune that is “cracked, drunken, loud, littered with chitters and whistles … breathless, reckless, full of squeaks and raspberries”. “It was the first song to make me understand that birdsong doesn’t have to be musical, in the human sense, to be wonderful,” Smyth tells me.Its true; the nightingale’s song, for example, isn’t the soft and honeyed thing the uninitiated might expect, but rather a startling, complex and quite relentless litany – “heavy metal in a bush” according to Chris Packham. The males can master up to 200 trills, buzzes and whistles, deploying them machine-gun style, in dazzling combinations. Nature, as Smyth points out, can be resilient – but not indefinitely. In Edmonton, Canada, songbird populations from black-capped chickadees to purple finches are dying out, unable to compete with the city’s industrial din. “Without an audible song, male birds were crippled, unable to stake out territory or advertise for mates. Breeding rates, as a result, dropped.” Researchers have noted similar patterns emerging in Germany, and in the US’s Rocky Mountains. If horror films have taught us anything, it’s that sudden silence where birdsong once reigned is an ominous harbinger.  Bards and scientists have studied the songbird’s skill for decades, recording and mapping and archiving, yet so much of our appreciation is projection. We imagine them lamenting and exulting, not because science has deciphered their songs in any emotionally translatable way, but because they speak to us, like Nelly Furtado, of flight and freedom. Theirs is a music wedded to the turn of the hours (dawn, dusk) and seasons. Those sweet, shrill chirrups and trills are the sound of childhood summers and holidays by the sea. Is anything more homely than the deep, contented coo of fat, purple-collared pigeons? Birdsong is a British thing, a music we’ve imbued with historical significance. Funny then, to consider that the warblers we’ve claimed as ours aren’t native at all, but treasured guests: immigrants.  As countless viral videos have proven, there’s a strong case for music as a shared language between our winged peers and us. They respond to ours, and we borrow from theirs, heavily – from Beethoven’s quail, cuckoo and nightingale imitations in his 1808 Pastoral Symphony, to jungle music’s signature rainforest whirr. Indie bands, neo-classical composers and avant-garde jazz heads such as Evan Parker have all fallen for this wild, free music, attempting to fold avian sounds into their craft. But the truth is there’s still much we don’t know: chiefly, is the music they make for survival alone, or is there more to it?  Nifty phone apps may help us to pick out individual vocalists from a multi-species chorus, to identify the rich, complex sounds they produce from those minuscule but mighty double-barrelled syrinx, and BBC Radio 4’s Tweet of the Day is a lovely thing, but nothing beats the live, unplugged experience when it comes to songbirds. Try leaving your phone in your pocket the next time you pass by a green patch; gaze upwards at the treetops instead of south at pavement – there’s a floating city of wild, sweet music happening mere metres away, above our newsfeed-clogged heads. 