It’s the start of March 1997. I have been married for around 48 hours, and I am in a record shop in Charlotte, North Carolina. I am here to buy tapes to listen to as my wife – my wife! What an unfamiliar concept – and I drive around the deep south, way off season, for our honeymoon.A couple of bargains go into the basket – an album by Run Westy Run on SST, the first Garbage album, which is on special offer. They’re followed by two albums, not yet released in the UK, that I’ve seen hailed as modern powerpop classics in Mojo. Powerpop, that week at least, is my favourite genre, and I’m desperate to hear them. Jason Falkner Presents Author Unknown is pretty great, but it twists and turns; it’s not the purely American big wash of sound that I want for long, empty roads. That need is met by the first album from Fountains of Wayne. For three weeks, we listen to that album every day, singing along to the sly summertime-smash-that-never-was, Radiation Vibe (“Are you alone now? / Did you lose the monkey? / He gave you backache / And now you slouch”), with its chorus big enough to flatten city blocks, to the anti-macho love song Leave the Biker (“I wonder if that guy’s read one word / That wasn’t in a porno mag / And I wonder if he ever has cried / Cos his kitten got run over and died”), to the whole glorious record.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Radiation Vibe by Fountains of WayneFountains of Wayne was – still is, but their activities are infrequent these days – the creation of two songwriters who had spent several years working together, getting nowhere. Then, in late 1995, Chris Collingwood called up Adam Schlesinger and said he needed to hear three “stupid songs” he had written. “I thought they were great, and it was just sort of inspiring that they were silly songs that were actually good,” Schlesinger told Mojo in 1997. “We immediately spent a week writing, sitting in this bar in New York and making up titles to see if we could turn them into songs.” They took their name from a store in Wayne, New Jersey, that sold fountains. And that was that.They’ve turned titles into songs over five albums now. And they’ve never lost their knack for conjuring a melody. The touchstones of Fountains of Wayne aren’t exactly obscure – a lot of Cheap Trick and the Cars, a big dose of Beatles and Squeeze – though as Collingwood and Schlesinger got older, the music has got gentler and more reflective. It’s the music of the hit parade, though sadly the music of the hit parade from a decade or more before they started making music. “It’s hit music in some alternate reality,” Schlesinger told me in 2011.There was a brief flirtation with hit music. In 2003, Stacy’s Mom – a high-schooler’s fantasy about his friend’s sexy mother, with a video featuring Rachel Hunter – became an international hit and earned the group two nominations at the 2004 Grammys. One was for best new artist, a mere eight years after their debut album, which seemed fitting.Collingwood and Schlesinger have never been shy about the fact that some of their songs don’t require an awful lot of work. They once remarked that for a song such as Denise, from their second album – 1999’s Utopia Parkway – it was pretty much a case of rhyming travel and gravel and getting out of there. That sometimes means their songs can tend towards the self-parodic: character sketches about salesmen or waitresses or sundry other people whose lives have not attained the giddy heights of being in a semi-successful rock band; there is a tendency to cruelty and contempt, which can sometimes leave a sour taste. (It’s not one they are alone in having; from Ray Davies to Paul Weller to Damon Albarn, there’s barely a writer of character sketch songs who has not at some point sneered at their subjects.)But not always. Because for every song about a failure (like the pilot in Mexican Wine who “used to fly for United Airlines / Then I got fired for reading High Times”), there’s the person who gains comfort from life’s smallest pleasures. Like the narrator of Hey Julie, who’s “working all day for a mean little man / With a clip-on tie and a rub-on tan”, who knows he has someone to love: “Sometimes I catch myself staring into space / Counting down the hours till I get to see your face.” Or there’s the narrator of Hackensack – later covered by Katy Perry – who’s been stranded in suburban New Jersey while the girl he loved in high school has gone off to Hollywood: “I saw you talkin’ / To Christopher Walken / On my TV screen … If you ever get back / To Hackensack / I’ll be here for you.”As you’ll have realised, I feel slightly conflicted about Fountains of Wayne. I adore the group, but I think they’re so wonderful they could do better. I sometimes feel like a slightly disappointed school teacher writing an exasperated comment on a pupil’s report. I’ve seen them live often enough to rarely bother any more, because of the number of times I have watched them phone in a visibly bored performance (they’ve got worse over the years, possibly abetted by the fact that Schlesinger and Collingwood are reputed not to get on terribly well any longer). But I’m only disappointed because I care, because when they are in full flow, there’s no more tuneful and witty a group at work.It’s now five years since the last Fountains of Wayne album, Sky Full of Holes. That one was quieter, subtler. The DayGlo powerpop was reined in, but they assumed the mantle of maturity without becoming dull, and it offered the group’s most moving and powerful song yet. Cemetery Guns wasn’t a character study, it was a reflection on the lives of a family set against the background of a military funeral: “Cemetery guns go bang bang bang / Shooting all the sky full of holes / Twenty-one times in row / For the blue war widow in the gray raincoat / On the green grass down below.” I hope it didn’t mark the passing of Fountains of Wayne. I hope there’s life in them yet.