Catching cheating boyfriends, stumbling across dead bodies and advertising one’s services as a professional Pokémon Go trainer – less than a week since the launch of the virtual-meets-real-world app Pokémon Go and the stories it has sparked are kookier than the names of the critters its fans are trying to catch.Cheating boyfriendEvan Scribner, a resident of Sunnyside, Queens, told the New York Post that his girlfriend spotted his infidelities after accessing his Pokémon Go app and noticing that he’d caught a Pokémon in the exact location of his ex-girlfriend’s house in Bushwick, Brooklyn.How Pokémon Go took over the world in a weekend “She saw that I had caught a Pokémon while at my ex’s house,” Scribner told the Post. “She found out last night at my house and hasn’t contacted me since then.”Professional Pokémon trainerNo time to spend your summer days walking the streets in search of Pokéstops when you also have a real job? No problem. Craigslist ads are now popping up for Pokémon trainers, with prices in New York City ranging from $20-30 per hour.Arthur, a 26-year-old lifelong Pokémon fan, is offering his services for $25 per hour: I can focus on catching a specific species of Pokémon to evolve for you. I can focus on training up your Pokémon to get your local gyms on lockdown. I can focus on catching Pokémon of a specific type. And of course, I will gladly walk out of my way to find new Pokémon to add to your Pokédex.Ivy St Ive, a journalist and Pokémon fan, also offered her services for $20 an hour: I will walk around in 1-4 hour shifts signed in to your account capturing every single Pokemon I come into contact with, activating every Poke Stop I pass and walking nonstop to help hatch your eggs. I’ll even send you hourly updates while you’re at work/class/on a hot date informing you of any really exciting things I’ve come across for you.Anthony De Rosa (@AntDeRosa)God help us all. https://t.co/JIUVRgNqMf pic.twitter.com/fyOvwmDWdPJuly 12, 2016AP Stylebook tick of approvalThe harbingers of published grammar, AP Stylebook, announced today the rules for writing about Pokémon Go. The official website of Pokémon Go spells the app’s name with an accent but AP Stylebook has decreed the accent over the “e” must disappear. It also deemed the term “Pokestop” OK (hence we felt safe using it earlier).Just to put this in perspective, AP Stylebook only permitted from 1 June of this year that internet could be written without a capital “i”.Dead bodies and funeral gamesA 19-year-old girl in Wyoming stumbled across a dead body in a river while playing Pokémon Go over the weekend.“I was trying to get a Pokémon from a natural water resource,” said Shayla Wiggins. “I was walking towards the bridge along the shore when I saw something in the water ... I had to take a second look and I realized it was a body,” she added.Even if people aren’t stumbling across dead bodies, they are finding plenty of Pokémon in completely inappropriate places, such as coffins at funerals or next to their wives in hospital giving birth.David S. Bernstein (@dbernstein)Which is worse, a Pokemon being at a funeral home mid-wake, or me knowing that he's there? pic.twitter.com/vLE5oKa3VdJuly 12, 2016O Canada, no Pokémon GoOur fine neighbors to the north might have Justin Trudeau but they don’t have Pokémon Go. At least not officially – although many are finding ways of skirting the system through third-party apps. But Canadians still have their sense of humor, creating piles of memes about the Pokémon Go shortage.Brynn Elizabeth (@brynnsadventure)we don't need #PokemonGO in Canada because we already have real ones roaming the country 🇨🇦 @Pokemon pic.twitter.com/OBO5V9epCOJuly 10, 2016Princess Zelda (@TriforceOfW)Me playing Pokemon Go in Canada like: pic.twitter.com/S9cbQuogIpJuly 12, 2016Sarah GRONKowski (@Sbeezy28)When you live in a country that doesn't have @Pokemon GO yet! 😂😂 #PokemonGO https://t.co/YQA168ldbFJuly 12, 2016N. Ho Sang (@Zarnyx)I hope #PokemonGO gets to Canada soon because I'm worried about @EvanChambers' desperation and cries for help pic.twitter.com/wQ1jTjisgAJuly 12, 2016