Holden Caulfield is a 16 year old who had been kicked out of one the most prestigious schools just before the Christmas break. He has had some past experience in being expelled. His character is described as a confused, stressed, troubled teenager, which I believe is the representation of teenagers in general.This book was originally published in 1951 and is still highly in demand. Although this book is a classic it is banned in many schools around the world due to its emphasis on controversial topics including underage drinking, inappropriate swear words and excessive smoking. Holden Caulfield comes from a rich family and faces many difficulties in his journey throughout the book. The story starts with him being unhappy and upset about everything and everyone around him. After being expelled from school, he decides not to go home and instead wanders around New York City all alone. During his time alone he experiences many mood shifts. He wants to fill his time doing something but he can’t do anything successfully. His depression, extreme happiness, arrogance, immaturity and restlessness makes it very hard for him to focus on one particular task. Troubled by the world, he faces severe alcoholism, deals with constant cigarette smoking and numerous mental breakdowns. This is a story about a lost teenager who probably does not want to be saved. This story is written in the first person which must have been challenging but it is done in a way that the reader is captivated.However, considering the controversial topics, this book is not suitable for younger readers. I agree that this book can be a ray of hope for teenagers who believe it is the end of the world after difficult situations but this book also comprises concepts that are misleading for the young audience. I think this book expands your horizons on how and what a typical troubled teenager thinks. A small journey to the mind of one messed up but interesting character makes the readers realise that after wandering alone, going home is one essential part of growth. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!