I think it was while waiting for our boat to plummet over the precipice of Le Grand Splatch, a colossal water ride at Parc Astérix, that I started to wonder how wise it is to share cherished illustrated books from your childhood with your kids.UK's first major Moomin exhibition set to open in London Asterix was always a favourite of mine and my daughter was very young when she was introduced to the plucky Gaul and his immense friend Obelix. It took. When given the choice between visiting Eurodisney and its French nationalist rival there was no contest. We even met the bard Cacofonix. Mercifully, he did not sing.It may not quite be on the scale of Parc Astérix, but a new Southbank Centre exhibition about artist Tove Jansson’s creations the Moomins has a bit of a theme park feel. It is called Adventures in Moominland and, like the same venue’s previous Roald Dahl show, is an immersive exhibition that makes the world of these cuddly characters – half hippo, half hippy – accessible to all ages. It is not the only forthcoming celebration of Moominland. Later next year there will be an exhibition of Jansson’s art at Dulwich Picture Gallery, which will present her as an important modern Finnish painter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inside Southbank Centre’s Adventures in Moominland. Photograph: Victor Frankowski / Southbank CentreWhat makes a picture book a classic, and why can’t we let go of our childhood favourites? Picture book art exists in a curious cultural space halfway between the worlds of adults and children. It is made for children, but adults tend to select books for young children so it is adult ideas and preferences that shape the genre and define its classics. The spate of Moomin art exhibitions does not reflect what children are talking about in the playground, but rather the enthusiasm of adults – including curators – who grew up with Moomin books in the 1970s and 80s. If Jansson is a favourite, and you haven’t got the excuse of parenthood to visit Adventures in Moominland, there are adults-only sessions at this exhibition on Thursday and Friday evenings.I did not not encounter the Moomins as a child. Instead, my absolute favourite picture book was The Great Pie Robbery by Richard Scarry. Did I inflict it on my own child? You betcha.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Splatch! A pair of Asterix books. Photograph: Christopher ThomondYet it is not just our own fondly remembered picture books that we give our children. We try to choose books that are beautiful and stimulating, that are, in short, not just visual pap but proper art. Looking through reams of samey picture books, often with incredibly bland designs and even blander stories, I was drawn when my daughter was very young to the genius of Maurice Sendak. Among so much cynical pulp art for young kids, here was something remarkable. I ended up collecting Sendak’s books, not only to read to my daughter but also out of pure artistic admiration.So is it just adult self-indulgence that makes us give “classy” picture books to children, from the Moomins to Maurice Sendak? Are we trying to relive our own infancy, or worse, to create some perfect, snobbish idyll of childhood? Maybe, but it is a price worth paying for helping a child to learn. As with any reading, there may not be any such thing as a bad picture book – the more the merrier. But there is an additional gain from looking at the truly excellent ones.The Beano and Tintin, John Tenniel and the best of Disney – let’s hear it for the great art of childhood that makes a better world by making better adults. Oh, and Le Grand Splatch was amazing, by the way.