It feels good to get something off your chest. And that's just what Chris Huhne did on Wednesday with his blast against "green growth deniers". But even Huhne, frequently direct to the point of bluntness, stopped short of naming those deniers. So I'll do it for him. And, later on, I'll tell him how to solve the problem he faces at a stroke.The energy and climate change secretary was speaking in Manchester, the home of the first industrial revolution, and argued that renewable energy will deliver a new industrial revolution for Britain. "Yes, the UK is only 2% of global carbon emissions. But if we grasp the opportunity now our businesses and economy can be much more than 2% of the solution," he said. That is direct riposte the Chancellor George "Goldfinger" Osborne, who told the Conservative party conference: "Britain makes up less than 2% of the world's carbon emissions to China and America's 40%. We're not going to save the planet by putting our country out of business." Huhne was on form, railing against "faultfinders and curmudgeons who hold forth on the impossibility of renewables – the unholy alliance of climate sceptics and armchair engineers who are selling Britain's ingenuity short." He specifically targeted those puffed up by the ludicrous hype over the UK's fledgling shale gas find: "Unconventional gas has not yet lit a single room nor cooked a single roast dinner in the UK. Yet those who clamour loudest for "realistic" energy policies would have us hitch our wagon to shale alone." Yes, Dieter Helm, he's talking to you.The speech is worth a read as it tackles three renewables "myths" head on. First, the myth that renewables are uneconomic and held up by government cash alone. In fact, more than 70% of global renewables investment in 2010 was private finance. Furthermore, said Huhne: "Globally, subsidies for fossil fuels outstrip subsidies for renewables by a factor of five." Another analysis suggests a factor 12. Second myth: renewables cannot deliver secure power at scale. Not so, says Huhne, citing the fossil-fuel focused International Energy Agency which says diverse energy sources increase security. As for intermittency, Coronation Street ad breaks and broken-down nuclear power stations mean the UK knows how to deal with this.Third myth: people don't want renewables. Again, not so, says Huhne, citing an Ipsos MORI poll asking for UK views on wind (82% favourable) and gas (56%).Huhne is winning plenty of battles in the government (the green deal, the green investment bank, renewable heat and so on), but he's not winning the war.When he said in his speech, "I know the prime minister agrees," he highlighted the problem. He may know this, but we don't. More importantly all those investors already creating thousands of green jobs, and who could create more, don't either. As the Confederation of British Industry – scarcely treehuggers – said in response to Huhne's speech: "We need to ensure that global low-carbon investors choose the UK as a place to do business, which requires certainty in both policy and language." Ben Warren, at Ernst and Young, agreed: "In the longer term a more strategic view from government is desperately needed to ... help overcome the short-term outlook coming from Treasury." Osborne is cutting investment in clean energy while giving handouts to highly polluting businesses, pandering to the delusions of the green growth deniers. Take the misleadingly named Renewable Energy Foundation, whose director John Constable, said: "Corporate welfare on this scale is actually counter-productive, since it provides no incentive for the green industries to grow up, drive down costs and improve technologies." So where's Constable's call to abandon the far greater fossil fuels subsidies?Others say the Chancellor is simply arguing for "cost-effective" carbon reduction policies. Who is in favour of non-cost-effective policies? The problem is Osborne is talking about reducing the ambition, not deploying the same funds in a different way.The immediate cause of the Conservative's abandoning of their detoxifying green zeal is soaring domestic energy bills. This political kryptonite has been relentlessly and inaccurately pinned on green taxes, with the Daily Mail the prime offender. But the urgent investment needed in our energy infrastructure results from the unusually liberal energy market the UK has had for the past two decades. It kept bills low when cheap North Sea gas was flowing freely, but has given no incentive to invest for the future, when gas prices have soared. So rebuilding the UK's energy infrastructure is a national investment in our future prosperity, and choosing anything other than clean, secure and inexhaustible sources would be madness. For that reason, the funding to get the industry on its feet should come from general taxation, not a levy on fuel bills that hits the poorest hardest.The government already chose this option for the £1bn for a carbon capture and storage demonstration plant. By not making energy bill payers stump up for the failings of past policies, the government in a single stroke draws the sting that is poisoning this vital issue.But if you don't like that and are still worried about your household budget, I have another suggestion that will save you far more money than the actual green levies on your energy bills: stop buying the Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday. You'll be £263 a year better off.