Thermodynamic panels have been touted as “a free source of natural, clean and inexhaustible energy providing 100% of your hot water needs, 365 days of the year”. For around £5,000 to buy and install, they sound too good to be true – and the first independent tests suggest they are.Thermodynamic panels are similar to air-source heat pumps and work like refrigerators in reverse. The panels absorb heat from the atmosphere to convert a refrigerant into a gas. That then passes through a compressor – which boosts its temperature – and is used to heat water. The refrigerant enters the panel at a temperature of between -20C and -30C, so even on cold days the panels can absorb relative warmth from the air. The compressor runs on electricity, however, so claims of free hot water are false. The key metric for this kind of technology is the so-called coefficient of performance (COP), which measures the amount of heat generated for each unit of electricity put into the system. An immersion heater, for example, has a COP of 1, while air-source heat pumps typically have a COP of between 2 and 4. Suppliers of thermodynamic panels say they have a COP of between 2 and 7. Results from the only independent tests of thermodynamic panels in the UK “aren’t that great”, according to Tom Bradley, senior project engineer at Narec Distributed Energy, which conducted the research. The organisation tested the system using a cycle that mimics the hot water usage of a typical family home, from January to July last year. The maximum monthly average COP of its thermodynamic panels was 1.6, or 2.2 when taking account of heat losses from the tank. Bradley says: “People could say what they liked before, because there was no independent information. After our test data went online, the claims from manufacturers became more realistic.”Lloyd Hester, who runs Green Serve UK, a distributor of thermodynamic systems, questions how useful Narec DE’s results are for the industry, saying they were only valid for the system it had installed, which may have had specific issues. Some early adopters, he says, have been dissatisfied, largely because some suppliers were overpricing the panels. “What happens with the double-glazing salesmen, first they went into solar market, now this; they are always looking for the next thing. People come up with a new product and put it out way too high.” Until recently, thermodynamic panels were not eligible for the renewable heat incentive (RHI) – a government scheme that offers financial incentives for low carbon heating technologies. That may be set to change. One of the criteria for the RHI is that products must be certified by the Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS). In November last year, the MCS updated its standards so thermodynamic panels for hot water can now be certified. It says several manufacturers are undergoing the process to achieve certification, although none have yet completed it. The Department of Energy and Climate Change says any changes to the RHI will be decided following the spending review in November. Panels will also have to achieve a minimum seasonal performance factor – the average COP over the full heating season – of 2.5 to be eligible.Homeowners may, therefore, want to wait to be sure the panels are included in the scheme. Bradley says: “It’s a technology that is developing and in the future [the results] might be spectacular. At the moment it’s in a very early stage. They are not hugely efficient but they perform better than an oil boiler.” For the time being, he would recommend other renewable options for domestic heating, such as solar water heating, which uses well-tested technology that installers are familiar with. 