Fancy sharing a dining experience at our Best Restaurant winner or vouchers to spend at our Best Independent Retailer? These are only a selection of the great prizes kindly donated by the winners of the 13th Observer Food Monthly Awards. All you have to do to win is enter our prize draw below.The prizes on offer are:★ A £100 voucher to spend at any Barrafina location, winner of Best Restaurant.★ A meal for four at Padella in London, winner of Best Cheap Eats.★ A Sunday roast for two with starters and a bottle of wine at Blacklock London, winner of Best Sunday Lunch.★ A dining experience at Silo in Brighton, winner of Best Ethical Restaurant.★ A £100 voucher to spend on anything at www.souschef.co.uk. Sous Chef is the winner of Best Independent Retailer.★ One of five signed copies of Jamie Oliver’s book Super Food Family Classics. Jamie Oliver is the winner of this year’s award for Best Food Personality.Simply enter your details below to be in with a chance of winningTerms and ConditionsThe Observer Food Monthly 2016 Readers’ prize draw (the “Prize Draw”) is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.The Prize Draw is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News & Media Limited (“GNM” or the “Promoter”), their group companies or family members, freelance contributors to GNM, or anyone else connected to the Prize Draw.Entrants into the Prize Draw shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions.To enter the Prize Draw you must visit www.observer.co.uk/ofm-readers-competition and follow the instructions to submit your contact details and all other requested information via the online form. No purchase is necessary. If you have any questions about how to enter or otherwise in connection with the Prize Draw, please email us at promotions@theguardian.com with “Observer Food Monthly 2016 readers’ prize draw” in the subject line.The Prize Draw consists of ten separate random draws: one draw for each of the ten prizes described in paragraph 8 below. Only one entry to the Prize Draw is permitted per person, but each entrant is permitted to enter as many of the ten individual draws as they wish – entrants must indicate on the online entry form which of the ten individual draws they wish to enter. A maximum of one prize may be won by each entrant. The ten random prize draws will be performed in the order indicated at www.observer.co.uk/ofm-readers-competition and the selected winner of each draw will be excluded from any/all remaining prize draws for which they have entered. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Prize Draw entry to us.GNM accepts no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt by GNM. The Prize Draw opens at 23:59 on 15/10/16 and closes at 23:59 on 12/11/16. Entries received outside this time period will not be considered. The ten prizes are as follows:£100 Barrafina voucher to use in any of the three locations: Frith Street, Adelaide Street or Drury Lane, London. (Additional conditions: voucher expires 12 months from the date that the voucher is first issued to the winner. Barrafina does not accept reservations and operates on a first come first serve basis. Tables are for max 4 people. Voucher can be spent on any items from the food and drinks menus.)A meal for four at Padella, London. (Additional conditions: available for lunch or dinner. The meal will include per person: an antipasti, a pasta dish, a dessert, a welcome cocktail and an espresso and one bottle of wine for the table as chosen by Padella. Expires 6 months from the date that the winner is first notified. Meal can be claimed during lunch or dinner service any time subject to availability, at the discretion of management.)Sunday roast for two with starters and a bottle of wine at Blacklock, London. (Additional Conditions: bottle of wine is chosen by Blacklock. Available for any Sunday in 2017 excluding New Year’s Day. Booking is not required and a table is guaranteed for the prize winner.)A dining experience consisting of a four-course dinner tasting menu with wine pairings for two at Silo, Brighton. (Additional conditions: Expires 6 months from the date the winner is first notified. All food and drinks are limited to the set menu and the set drinks pairing menu as chosen by Silo on the day of booking. A reservation is required and should be made via email to reservations@silobrighton.com.)£100 Sous Chef voucher. To be spent on anything at www.souschef.co.uk. Voucher will be delivered by email to the winner.Five copies of Super Food Family Classic signed by Jamie Oliver. This will be delivered by post directly to the winner’s nominated address. Five separate prizes.The ten winners will be selected by way of a ten random draws (as described in paragraph 5 above) from all entries received in accordance with these Terms and Conditions. The draw will take place on or after 13/11/2016. Only one winner per household. GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs (including any travel or accommodation costs) associated with the prize that are not expressly included in the prize. The winners will be notified using the contact details provided on entry on or after 13/11/2016 and given details of how to claim their prize. If a winner does not respond to GNM within 14 days of being notified of their win, the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner in accordance with the process described above (and that winner will have to respond to notification of their win within 14 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If a winner rejects their prize or the entry is invalid or in breach of these terms, the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.  The winners will be provided with details as to how to claim their prize by 27/11/2016.  The name and county of the winners can be obtained after 11/12/2016 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Marketing Department, Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.  The prizes are non-exchangeable, non-transferable and not redeemable for cash or any other prize.  GNM reserves the right to substitute the prize with an alternative prize of similar value in the event that the original prize offered is not available.  The winners may be required to take part in promotional activity related to the Prize Draw and the winners shall participate in such activity on the Promoter’s reasonable request. The winners consents to the use by the Promoter and its related companies, both before and after the closing date of the Prize Draw for an unlimited time, of the winner’s voice, image, photograph and name for publicity purposes (in any medium, including still photographs and films, and on the internet, including any websites hosted by the Promoter and its related companies) and in advertising, marketing or promotional material without additional compensation or prior notice and, in entering the Prize Draw, all entrants consent to the same.  The Promoter shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the Prize Draw, you agree to the collection, retention, usage and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your Prize Draw entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 15 above.  GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Prize Draw or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person’s computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Prize Draw. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury resulting from its negligence. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Prize Draw with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its reasonable control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters relating to the Prize Draw is final and no correspondence will be entered into. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations relating to this Prize Draw where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.  The Prize Draw and these Terms and Conditions will be governed by English law and entrants to the Prize Draw submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.  Promoter: Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.