One of Britain’s foremost playwrights has launched a forthright attack on European concept directors who camp up and distort classic plays in a way that is “beginning to infect” British theatre.Sir David Hare’s damning criticisms of so-called “theatre makers” are included in a wide-ranging interview for a forthcoming book.In one passage, Hare refers to “state of England” plays as “the strongest line in British theatre”. He recalls Jerusalem, Jez Butterworth’s award-winning play about national identity, which opened at the Royal Court in 2009 with Mark Rylance as a roguish ne’er-do-well. Hare describes it as “the last surpassingly successful play in that tradition”.He continues: “Now we’re heading in Britain towards an over-aestheticised European theatre. We’ve got all those people called ‘theatre makers’ – God help us, what a word! – coming in and doing director’s theatre where you camp up classic plays and you cut them and you prune them around.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sir David Hare reserved his most damning criticisms for European ‘theatre makers’ who cut up and prune traditional texts. Photograph: Sara Jaye Weiss/Rex/Shutterstock“And all that directorial stuff that we’ve managed to keep over on the continent is now coming over and beginning to infect our theatre. And of course if that’s what people want, fine. But I’ll feel less warmth towards the British theatre if that ‘state-of-the-nation’ tradition goes.”Hare is among international dramatists who discuss their craft in interviews conducted by Jeffrey Sweet, an award-winning playwright and theatre historian, in his book What Playwrights Talk About When They Talk About Writing.Sweet backed Hare’s views on “director’s theatre”, saying: “David is right in the sense that there’s more disrespect for text among European directors. They think that their job is not just to interpret a sense of what’s on the page but to also comment on and reform.”He cited Ivo van Hove, the Olivier and Tony award-winning Belgian director, whose iconoclastic approach to the classics has won awards but alienated some more traditional theatre-goers.Sweet said: “Some of his productions have been embraced enthusiastically and some of them, you go, ‘what the hell was that?’”In Van Hove’s version of Tennessee Williams’s A Streetcar Named Desire, he said: “There was an enormous amount of nudity and no subtext left to it. The whole point of that play is that the sexual stuff is below the surface. If you’ve got Blanche, Stanley and Stella running around with no clothes on, then the play goes out the window.” They think their job is not just to interpret what’s on the page but to also comment on and reformJeffrey Sweet, playwright He also dismissed Van Hove’s staging of The Crucible, Arthur Miller’s powerful drama about the infamous 17th-century Salem witch trials, an allegory on the Communist witch-hunts of his own day: “It was confused and semi-coherent. For one thing, he had one of the girls actually flying … The point of this is hysteria and they aren’t really witches.”In April, the Barbican Centre and Van Hove’s Toneelgroep Amsterdam will stage the world premiere of Obsession in London, with Jude Law starring as a handsome drifter in an adaptation of Luchino Visconti’s 1943 film. The production is part of the company’s 2017 Barbican residency, which starts with the return of Roman Tragedies in March. The six-hour epic, first seen in 2009, turns audience members into citizens, “inviting them to move freely around the stage”.Discussing other radical adaptations, Sweet acknowledged that some do work. But he criticised the British director Rupert Goold for staging The Merchant of Venice in a kitsch Las Vegas with Shylock as a gaming tycoon, Launcelot Gobbo as an Elvis impersonator and Portia as a blonde starlet of a TV game show. While one theatre critic saw it as “a perfect metaphor for a world of financial and romantic fantasy”, another dismissed it as “silly”.Sweet argued: “The metaphor just didn’t make sense. Why would any of these people be in Vegas?”Radical interpretations of classic plays are more common in the rest of Europe, he believes, because “in terms of the classics, anything goes because there are no copyright rules”. He also predicts that there will be many more directors imitating Van Hove’s approach, both in Britain and America, because of his prize-winning success: “They think, ‘this is what I have to do to be taken seriously as a director’.”Rob Swain, a theatre director and professor of theatre practice at Birkbeck, University of London, disagrees with both Hare and Sweet, arguing that criticism of a European trend is “far too simplistic” and that there is never “a definitive version” of a play.As well as his acclaimed stage plays Racing Demon, Pravda and Stuff Happens, Hare wrote Oscar-nominated screenplay adaptations of Michael Cunningham’s novel The Hours and Bernhard Schlink’s The Reader.Despite such recognition, he confides in the interview that he lacks confidence in audiences watching his plays: “I sit there listening to every cough, every moment of inattention, every phone call, every man looking at his watch, every man who has been dragged by his wife to the theatre and doesn’t want to be there, every scene that I’ve written that’s failed, every moment that I dreamt would be so great and isn’t so great. Yeah, that takes a toll on your personality.”What Playwrights Talk About… will be published on 4 April by Yale University Press (21 February in the US). It marks the 10th anniversary of the Yale Drama Series and the David Charles Horn Foundation prize for emerging playwrights.