Actor Ralf Little has lamented the death of Caroline Aherne, the creator of sitcom The Royle Family, as a “tragic reminder” of the lack of working-class voices on British television.Little, who got his acting break as Antony Royle in Aherne’s BBC series, said a “noticeable gap has been left in her wake” after one of Britain’s best loved comedians died from lung cancer on Saturday aged 52.Aherne was one of few working in television in the 1990s who was not male and from a privileged background, and she often drew on her working-class Manchester upbringing for her popular comedy character Mrs Merton, her Fast Show sketches and in the sitcoms she wrote.Caroline Aherne's life and career – in pictures Little said: “Caroline was a leading light in showing that working-class people can be on TV, being ourselves. That you can be a working-class kid, living out your life, and that can be interesting and funny and dramatic and entertaining.” He added: “Right now, I don’t see anyone else doing what she did and I do think there is a noticeable gap left in Caroline’s wake. Her death is a reminder how much she and her writing were, and still are, the exception.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Comedian and actor Caroline Aherne dies aged 52Aherne, who co-wrote The Royle Family with her longtime collaborator Craig Cash, drew praise for her sympathetic and warm portrayal of working-class family life, and Little said even though almost two decades have passed since the show debuted, it is still groundbreaking. “Even today, a lot of comedy ridicules working-class life,” said Little. “I don’t mean in a spiteful way, more that it is made up of hapless characters, whereas The Royle Family was a celebration of everything Caroline and Craig held dear. Even though she wrote up situations that were funny and ridiculous, she never sent it up in any way that was mocking or critical.” Despite the success of The Royle Family, which earned Aherne and Cash three Baftas, Little said that as an actor he had noticed the diminishing representation of the working-class experience on screen. He said: “I think these days with TV and drama, people recognise less and less of their own lives. I’m not convinced at all that current TV drama and comedy is particularly reflective of most people’s experience. Whether it’s a posh spy drama or Downton Abbey, the past 10 years of TV commissioning has phased out working-class drama or comedy – and that’s where we are now.”Little said the popularity of Gogglebox, the Channel 4 show that Aherne narrateduntil her death, showed there was still the same appetite for people to see their own lives reflected on television.The lack of working-class voices in television, he said, was only adding to a growing sense of disenfranchisement in the UK, particularly among those living outside metropolitan areas. “I do think that in the last few years we’ve seen the rich get richer and the poor get poorer and that growing gap is reflected in all areas of society, even TV,” he said. “We have to realise that has a knock-on effect. People are pissed off that not even TV represents their lives any more because there aren’t enough writers like Caroline being given a break.”Caroline Aherne obituary Little said that failing to tell working-class stories on television was also likely to contribute to the diminishing number of working-class actors, an issue which has been raised by Julie Walters and Ian McKellen. He acknowledged that while economics was a major factor, “the current fashion of dramas not being working-class dramas means that actors who aren’t middle class don’t necessarily see themselves represented and so don’t necessarily think it’s a world for them.”Aherne eschewed the fame that The Royle Family brought her and, struggling with the spotlight, wrote only three shows after the series. However, Little said that while he was “still reeling” from her death, he hoped it would prompt some positive action.“Hopefully being reminded about how amazing she was will reaffirm people’s belief in the fact that working-class stories can be told on TV, that writers need to be unafraid to show the minutiae of everyday life on TV and commissioners need to boldly seek out these voices.”