Mary Margaret O’Hara read Ulysses at the age of 11 and thought: “Finally, someone is talking normal”. It’s a tall tale that nevertheless makes a certain kind of sense. At its most abandoned, the music made by this elusive, unclassifiable Canadian singer resembles a new kind of language.O’Hara still works in and on music, but she has not released an album since her debut, Miss America, in 1988 (the soundtrack for the film Apartment Hunting came out in 2001, but was never intended for release, and can’t be regarded as a “proper” follow-up album). This year sees her returning to public view, but only to appear alongside Jonathan Rhys Meyers and Fiona Shaw in The Rising, a biopic of Irish republican Seán Mac Diarmada. Acting is in the blood – her sister is Catherine O’Hara, who played Macauley Culkin’s mum in Home Alone and is a member of Christopher Guest’s repertory of ace mockumentarian – and in recent years we’ve been more likely to see her on the screen than hear her sing. Meanwhile, among her fans the faint but impatient thrumming for another record goes on. One listen to Miss America should explain why.In the late 80s, a friend slipped me a tape of the album with, appropriately enough, some Patsy Cline tacked on the end. The clear, classic tone of Cline was just one of several disorientating elements in the Miss America mix. One minute O’Hara sounded like a heartsore country girl in a gingham dress, whispering in front of a ribbon mic. The next she was jumping between jagged art rock, jazz excursions and classic torch songs. The barely audible balm of You Will Be Loved Again gave way to the jittery funk of Not Be Alright, less a song than an aural anxiety attack. DX-7 rubbed against lap steel. Burbling five-string bass leached into Bill Frisell-like cascades of reverbed guitar. There was session-man sleekness and wild, free-jazz time keeping. All the while, O’Hara fell between purging and purring, both becalmed and berserk. On her rare appearances on stage, she seemed in the throes of some spell – twitching, making nervy jokes, muttering off mic. Naysayers often dismiss her as “kooky”, “ditzy” and all those other gender-skewed pejoratives, but there is a hard and unswerving centre to O’Hara’s music. As beautiful as much of it is, there is something fearful about Miss America, an aura of exorcism. She has talked about “inner and outer voices” and believes in unseen powers. The stunning To Cry About seemed to foresee the death by drowning of a boyfriend – “there will be a timed disaster” – a year before it happened. She shares with Van Morrison the sense of someone whose obsessions outrun mere words. Little wonder, perhaps, that the album had a somewhat tortuous gestation. Some of the songs date back to 1980, when O’Hara was an arts graduate in Toronto playing in local bands. She signed to Virgin in 1983 as a solo artist, but although Miss America was recorded mostly in 1983 and 1984, it was delayed until 1988, hampered by legal struggles with a record company who didn’t quite realise what they had on their hands. Producers ranged from Andy Partridge to Joe Boyd, although the final album is credited to Michael Brook. Because the track list was put together by Virgin, O’Hara has always regarded it as a compromised piece of work.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest She started a second record but ended up sitting out her contract. Bruised by industry interference and lack of enthusiasm, she has been unwilling to offer up her own material for scrutiny in the same way since. It appears that getting this stuff from her gut to her head and on to tape is just too hard. Instead, she became a serial collaborator, frittering away her genius on relative trifles. Apart from Apartment Hunting, which is half-formed but has some sublime moments, she has taken part in tributes to Kurt Weill, Leonard Cohen, Nick Drake and Vic Chesnutt, sung pirate songs and Christmas tunes, and guested with This Mortal Coil and Tindersticks. She acted in a stage version of The Black Rider, written by Tom Waits and William Burroughs and directed by Robert Wilson. To many, she is still best known for singing backing vocals on Morrissey’s 1993 single November Spawned a Monster.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mary Margaret O’Hara performs Kurt Weill tribute Don’t be AfraidConventional live appearances are infrequent, particularly on this side of the water. Dirty Three tempted her to All Tomorrow’s Parties in 2007, and she appeared at the Barbican’s Twisted Christmas concert in 2008 (O’Hara loves Christmas, which figures), but it’s unlikely she could ever be persuaded to undertake a classic album showcase of Miss America. Footage of her 2012 performance at the Push festival in Vancouver reveals radically deconstructed versions of her old material. She gives the impression of a woman who keeps moving forward. A download of one new song, This is What I Want, crept out in 2014, but another full-length album seems beyond (or, perhaps, beneath) her. “If you have an idea,” she said once, “Why do you have to make it?” It’s a frustrating but oddly heroic ideology. As she sang on This is What I Want, “What I could give you, you already have / What I could tell you, you already know.”