Shieldinch looks like a typical Glasgow suburb, albeit an upscale one. An art-deco Italian cafe nestles among the attractive tenement houses, with a Subway station and a traditional boozer mere paces away. But today, the streets are eerily deserted, and not just because of the heavy rain – it’s because Shieldinch doesn’t really exist.This is actually the exterior set of BBC Scotland’s soap opera River City, a mini version of Glasgow located in Dumbarton, 20 miles away from the city. While the long-running soap is on a production break, Shieldinch has been invaded by guerrilla film-makers: Robert “Rab” Florence, Ryan Macleod and a three-man camera crew. Wearing garish hats and deliberately radiating the hyperactive energy of children’s TV presenters, Florence and Macleod are capering outside the Oyster Cafe, delivering a piece to camera at a remarkably high volume.The pair are shooting the extremely belated fourth season of VideoGaiden, the cult BBC video gameshow that originally wrapped up in 2008. While the likes of GamesMaster and Bad Influence! brought gaming culture to the mainstream in the 1990s and early 2000s, VideoGaiden was their more anarchic counterpoint, mixing comedy sketches and reviews with satirical jibes at the industry and its vanities – often to coruscating effect.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The VideoGaiden team on the set of River City. Photograph: Graeme VirtueAfter completing their exterior shots in the icy drizzle, the crew hustle into one of the tenements that, in classic film-set style, is an unsettlingly bare wooden shell. While the next shot is being set up, and with their breath visible before them, Florence and Macleod contemplate their return. Although it looked unlikely for several years, with culture’s current mania for reboots – from The X-Files to a Baywatch movie to the endless remastering of classic games – there’s suddenly no reason why VideoGaiden couldn’t come back. But why did they think it should? “Since the last time, everything has changed in terms of how games are covered,” says Florence. “So, I think it’s quite interesting for two old guys to be doing it. It’s nice to still love games but be able to look at them a bit differently.” Macleod agrees. “It makes us sound like old bores, but we have seen a lot of this stuff before,” he says. In the eight years since series three, Florence has maintained his reputation as a prolific comedy writer and performer with BBC sketch show Burnistoun, as well as staging wrestling promotions and his own intermittent live gaming events. Macleod has been working behind the scenes in TV and video production while launching his own inventive gaming series, Chuckie Dregs. Unlike most troupes who reform, the two – now in their late 30s – actually look in better shape than thy did eight years ago, when they were commando-rolling around BBC Scotland’s Pacific Quay headquarters dressed in black combat vests and Frank Spencer berets. They freely admit to being fitter and happier. It was in 2004 that Florence and Macleod caught the eye of the BBC after creating their own web-based homebrew gaming show, Consolevania. Despite its DIY nature, the series was funny, daring and featured an enviably eclectic soundtrack. In spirit, it felt like part of that continuum of offbeat UK games coverage that stretches back to irreverent print mags such as Your Sinclair and Teletext’s gaming godhead Mr Biffo – but it was also a prescient ancestor of the DIY approach fostered on YouTube. “Consolevania was almost pre-internet,” says Florence, recalling sending out the first episode to fans on CDs, like a fanzine. When Consolevania morphed into VideoGaiden, appearing on BBC Scotland and online, it remained chaotic, self-aware and, crucially, funny.A review of Guitar Hero was intercut with a shot-for-shot remake of a scene from 1980s cult classic Highlander. The nagging problem of being over-encumbered with gear in The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was transformed into an ongoing farce of throwing boots on to roofs. A beloved Christmas special featured appearances from GamesMaster’s Dominik Diamond and late musical absurdist Frank Sidebottom. Cult Scottish comic Limmy popped up as airhead blowhard “Zack Eastwood”. The overall tone was mischievous, though the review segments could be intensely personal, even confessional.Viewed from a distance of almost a decade, VideoGaiden seems ahead of its time, something you could imagine popping up on cult US comedy channel Adult Swim between screenings of Too Many Cooks. “I think the main influence on us back then was 4Later,” says Florence. “That was back when Channel 4 made exciting telly. Even the not-good stuff was exciting, The Word and things like that.” He mentions Channel 4’s Manhattan Cable, the late-night Laurie Pike-hosted showcase of New York public-access TV, an avalanche of oddball Wayne’s World-style weirdness. “Anyone could make a TV show, and they were doing whatever they wanted,” says Florence. “There was no structure, no rules. That was inspiring.”If VideoGaiden was an outlier eight years ago, it might also feel a little out of step in 2016, a time when gamers can circumvent traditional mediators by tuning in to live Twitch streams. While no TV channel seems that interested in launching a mass-market games show, the vacuum has been filled – perhaps overfilled – by gaming video content online. “Everybody’s putting out so much stuff now,” says Macleod. “Gaming websites that do video are having to churn out constant content. For us, it’s a real luxury to not have to do that. I think we have a bit more time to put some thought and consideration into what we’re doing.” Do they do much Twitch viewing themselves? “Strictly Dark Souls only,” says Macleod. “For some reason, watching people play Dark Souls is fascinating.”Neither are keen on the slick, hyper-caffeinated style that seems to dominate gaming videos. “We’re making a point of making fun of that kind of stuff,” says Florence. “The quick cutting and slamming sound effects, that accepted grammar of how to present video games ...” Macleod shakes his head. “I don’t even know where that comes from, that way of talking about games,” he says. “There’s just this sense of ‘Whatever you do, don’t take it seriously.’”After unexpectedly announcing series four on New Year’s Eve, Florence and Macleod have been Periscoping early production conferences and deliberately misspelling “exclusive” in their social-media hype campaign. Six bite-size shows will appear online weekly before a “proper” half-hour TV programme appears on BBC Scotland and iPlayer in April. A preview screening of the first episode at the Glasgow Film Festival drew an enthusiastic response from an admittedly partisan crowd. As well as reflecting what it’s like to grow up immersed in games, VideoGaiden season four also seems to be an unusually thoughtful and sometimes bleak meditation on ageing. One review segment, untangling the mysteries of Jonathan Blow’s The Witness via the medium of a kettle jug in a draughty warehouse, echoes the profundity and self-seriousness of an early David Blaine illusion, an impression strengthened by an unscripted but weirdly Matrix-like cameo by a cat.The shooting schedule is intense but there’s no shortage of ambition. A new boardgames segment has been filmed in uninterrupted takes, inspired by the Oscar-winner Birdman. Graham Russell, VideoGaiden’s veteran director and producer, enthuses about the new possibilities for visual effects. And the pair’s scripts are anything but boilerplate – in the fiction of the show, duplicate versions of Florence and Macleod are trapped within a sort of gaming purgatory, cursed to eternally view their alternate lives while being tortured by the vengeful spirits of games past. It’s a million miles away from gaming TV of old.What also makes series four of VideoGaiden an intriguing proposition is the fact that it isn’t just the resumption of a professional relationship, but also a personal one. Florence and Macleod had such a major fall out at the end of the last series that, to all intents and purposes, they haven’t spoken or even been in the same room for the past eight years. “Certainly when we did the last series, I don’t think either of us were mentally in a great place,” says Florence. Macleod agrees. “I was drunk,” he says. Florence butts in: “And I was crazy.” They both laugh, a little nervously. “I think we’re both in a far better place, and that’s interesting in itself,” says Florence. “We’ve not really sat down and had major talks about anything, we’ve just gone back to work and it has clicked. But if people have questions about that, I’d tell them to watch the show. Because we do tackle that in the first episode.” Watching from behind a boom as they run lines and cavort in front of the camera, it’s clear that the gnarly chemistry is still there: Florence is an energetic ball of panto braggadocio while Macleod channels the dazed spirit of Stan Laurel.VideoGaiden is clearly shooting to a tight budget, but working under the purview of the BBC does afford some benefits above and beyond gatecrashing the River City set. “The good thing is that we really don’t need to be nice,” says Florence. “There’s no real pressure to get viewers or subscribers. The show is getting made, it’s going out and that’s it. We don’t have to worry about it.” It also relieves them of the tyranny of the release schedule. “We don’t want to waste our time; we just want to talk about the stuff we like,” says Macleod. Florence agrees: “It’s actually a relief that we won’t need to try to think of funny stuff to say about Assassin’s Creed.” In an ocean of gaming content, it’s just a relief to welcome something a little different. At a recent VideoGaiden outline meeting, there was a discussion about whether to spotlight Rainbow Six: Siege or the latest instalment of intense strategy RPG series Nobunaga’s Ambition. “One of them will be forgotten in a few months and one of them nobody’s talking about,” says Florence. At the end of the meeting, the decision was unanimous: they would ask viewers for their thoughts on Siege but VideoGaiden itself would go big on Ambition. Not for the first time.New episodes of VideoGaiden are uploaded on BBC Scotland’s YouTube channel on Thursdays at 7pm; the TV special screens 14 April on BBC2 Scotland and iPlayer