The head of the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) may be more versed in the language of the Bard than computer chips, but a corporate technology video inspired him to see the potential of digital science, fibre optics and sensors for live theatre.Gregory Doran, the RSC’s artistic director, was overwhelmed by an extraordinary flying whale in a three-minute corporate video by Intel Corporation. The footage is spectacular. The whale swims across three juxtaposed cinema screens before emerging through one of them and swimming over hundreds of people in an auditorium.Referring to the technology, rather than the whale, Doran told colleagues: “That’s what I want for The Tempest.”Sounds and sweet airs: The Tempest's seductive musical sorcery They contacted Intel, who were excited by the challenge of extending technology developed for film and video to live theatre. In November, the shipwreck, storms and fantastical creatures of Shakespeare’s late play will be brought to life with what promises to be spectacular special effects. Rehearsals begin on Monday.The production stars Simon Russell Beale as Prospero, the magician, and Mark Quartley as Ariel, the sprite, who will be transformed through real-time performance capture technology into a “live” animated character in the RSC Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon.Quartley will be on stage, wearing sensors that capture his movements, projecting them into the air and rendering him as a character that morphs in and out of a human form.Doran told the Guardian: “You will see an avatar of Ariel in real time, flying, walking and moving in the middle space, in the air. It will be projected on to a whole number of things. “I’m amazed just how fast technology advances. There’s even been, since we started this venture [a year ago], a new kind of glass that’s been invented that you can’t see. So there are all sorts of things that you can project on to.”The production combines the RSC’s traditional theatre-making skills and Intel’s digital innovation with the technical imagination of the Imaginarium Studios, in London, in pushing boundaries.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Gregory Doran on the technology in his new production of The TempestTechnological experiments will take place this week. The hope is that when Prospero conjures up a magical storm to wreck the ship carrying men who wronged him projected images on multiple surfaces will also make the audience feel as though they are in the ship as it starts filling with water. Actors will appear to be thrown into the air by crashing, swirling waves.Doran said: “There’s all the computer-generated extraordinary stuff you can do on film. But it has never yet been done live on stage. This is storytelling for the 21st century, taking the audience’s imagination into new realms.“We would be Luddites not to open ourselves to those possibilities.”Sarah Ellis, the RSC’s head of digital development, said: “To be able to create digital characters in real time on that scale in a theatrical environment is a huge achievement.”But Doran is keen to emphasise “the primacy of the words”. “The effects mustn’t overwhelm them … It’s got to enhance rather than dictate what we’re doing.”Tawny Schlieski, Intel’s director of research, said that the potential for live theatre is huge: “It’s not about being new for new’s sake. It’s about creating that moment in which you’re immersed in a world and you don’t think about why or how. You just become lost in it. That’s something magical.”They were speaking ahead of an announcement on Monday of the RSC’s spring/summer 2017 season.From Stratford to Shanghai: the Royal Shakespeare Company tours China The programme will pay tribute to the Roman poet Ovid, a major influence on Shakespeare. A new Rome season of Shakespeare’s four great political thrillers will begin with Julius Caesar, with its somewhat topical “politics of spin and betrayal”, followed by Antony and Cleopatra, Titus Andronicus and Coriolanus.World premieres will include a co-production – with Hull Truck theatre and Hull City of Culture 2017 – of The Hypocrite by the award-winning playwright Richard Bean. It is described as a “riotous farce about the infamous moment in Hull’s history which started the English civil war”.Another first is a staging of a story of social injustice from 13th-century Yuan dynasty China. Guan Hanqing’s Snow in Midsummer – in a contemporary translation by the playwright Frances Ya-Chu Cowhig – tells the story of a young girl framed for a crime she did not commit. It is part of a cultural exchange with China. The Shanghai Dramatic Arts Centre will in turn produce Henry V with a Chinese cast under RSC associate director Owen Horsley.Whether new technology will feature in the 2017 season remains to be seen.