In terms of sheer numbers, Google’s Android has been bigger than Apple’s iOS for some time now – it reached 1 billion active users in mid-2014.That has made Android a bigger priority than it used to be for many more app developers: in 2016, lots of prominent new apps debut simultaneously on Android and iOS, with some even appearing on Android first.Here is the Guardian’s pick of new – as in brand new, not merely updated – Android apps from the past month: 10 apps and 10 games. Prices are correct at the time of writing, and “IAP” signifies use of in-app purchases.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   BBC Music for AndroidAppsBBC Music (Free)Currently a UK-only app, this brings together live performances and interviews with musicians from the BBC’s TV and radio output, as well as playlists curated by its DJs. The app learns your tastes as you use it to refine its recommendations, with songs available as 30-second clips or – via Spotify or Deezer – in full.Glow Baby: Feeding Tracker (Free)Glow’s previous apps have focused on helping women track their periods and pregnancies, so it makes sense to follow them with one for babies. This isn’t just about tracking breast or bottle feeds: you can also use it to log sleep, nappy changes, weight and other milestones.BuzzFeed Video (Free)There’s already a good app for watching BuzzFeed’s fast-growing video output: YouTube. But now the news site has launched a standalone app for its video division, including alerts when shows you’ve subscribed to have a new episode, and a trending feed to spot popular videos.Reuters TV: Video News (Free)More mobile video courtesy of news service Reuters, with the inventive idea of creating a news bulletin tuned to your interests. You tell the app how long you want to watch for – between five and 30 minutes – and it draws together video reports from its correspondents around the world.TapTapSee (Free)This is a truly intriguing use of smartphones for blind and visually-impaired people: using their device’s camera to take pictures of objects in the real world, and identify what they are. The app uses Android’s TalkBack feature to read out the details, with photos snapped by double-tapping the screen.Peach (Free)When it launched for iPhone in January, social app Peach surfed a wave of hype from tech sites that has since died down. Can its Android release revive the buzz? Peach is certainly fun: a quick way to post photos, doodles, gifs, songs and other stuff to your network. Inventive, but it relies on your friends being on it.Sleepfulness (Free + IAP)With a Google Play blurb like “Better sleep. Better days. Powered by mindfulness” this app will raise your hackles if you’re sceptical about the mindfulness boom. If you’re curious, though, Sleepfulness is worth a look: made by the developer of popular app Buddhify, it promises soundtracks to help you get better shut-eye.Everalbum: Organise Photos (Free + IAP)This app has a firm fanbase on iOS, so its appearance on Android is welcome news for non-iPhone mobile photographers. It backs up your photos (and videos); can import from Facebook and Instagram among other sources; and most usefully helps you free up space for more stuff on your device.MyShake (Free)If you’re in the UK, hopefully MyShake will never be an app you need: designed, as it is, to measure the tremors before and during earthquakes. But this is a really interesting idea for people who do live in quake-affected parts of the world: an app from Berkeley Seismological Laboratory that aims to “create a dense network that could one day provide warnings prior to shaking”.VHS Camcorder (£2.47)Any self-respecting hipster wanting to share videos on social networks that look like they’re filmed with a 1980s VHS camcorder will, of course, go out and buy a 1980s VHS camcorder. But this is an app shortcut to creating retro videos. And yes, if there’s a demand for this it’s probably as an Instagram filter, but the app is well put together with good attention to period details.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Walking Dead: Michonne for AndroidGamesThe Walking Dead: Michonne (£4.27 + IAP)This is the return of Telltale Games excellent episodic-adventure series based on The Walking Dead – the comic books, note. This focuses on the Michonne character’s absence from the main plotline, and what she was doing (non-spoiler: zombies are involved). It’s another highly playable adventure, with more episodes to come.GTA: Liberty City Stories (£4.99)Old Grand Theft Auto games are being ported to mobile at a steady rate of one a year, with the latest on Android being Liberty City Stories. The story of Toni Cipriani returning to his mob-scarred home city remains fresh after all these years, with the familiar mix of driving, fighting and enthusiastic swearing intact.Final Fantasy IX (£15.99)A big price (in mobile terms) for a big game – this weighs in at 3.2GB. If you love the Final Fantasy games, though, it’s well worth the cost and space. This is one of the best episodes of the classic RPG, faithfully translated to the touchscreen. Whether you’re replaying it from your youth or new to the game, it’s a joy.Alto’s Adventure (Free + IAP)One of the most lovely looking mobile games in recent memory: this is a snowboarding game that deliberately zooms out its viewpoint for an emphasis on the background scenery. Not that it’s all looks: the touchscreen controls as you swoop and leap through the snowy mountains are perfect too.Tennis Club Story (£3.44)If you’re new to the work of Japanese developer Kairosoft, perhaps start with Game Dev Story, the title that made its name in the west. Tennis Club Story is a good showcase too: an addictive business-simulation (no, really) that has you running a tennis club. It’s quirky, but its charms are hard to shake off.Dub Dash (Free + IAP)Dub Dash will certainly wake you up: it’s a bracing rhythm-racing action game with a thumping dubstep soundtrack and neon all over the shop. Its difficulty can be intimidating, but when you negotiate a level perfectly in time to the music, it’s thrilling. The latest proof that music games are alive and kicking on mobile.Circa Infinity (£2.46)Talking of difficult games, Circa Infinity has been winning praise from the kind of gamers who relish tough titles like Super Hexagon. It’s a “circular platformer” where you have to run and jump through the rings of a circle, with red, black and white visuals that the White Stripes would approve of.Kendall & Kylie (Free + IAP)Kim Kardashian: Hollywood was a massive hit for mobile publisher Glu Mobile, but the similar Katy Perry Pop follow-up was a flop. Now the company is heading back to US TV’s favourite reality-show family in search of more success. Kendall & Kylie focuses on the Jenner sisters, who mentor your character’s journey to fame.Evo Explores (£1.55)The first time you clap eyes on Evo Explores, you’ll quite possibly shout “Monument Valley!” if you’ve played the latter puzzle game – the two share a visual aesthetic. Evo Explores does play similarly too, as its owlish robo-hero explores impossible architecture. Its developer freely admits its debt to Monument Valley, but if you loved that game, this should be fun.Patchwork The Game (£2.49 + IAP)Uwe Rosenberg’s Patchwork may not be quite as famous a board game as Monopoly or Cluedo, but on the evidence of its official mobile game, it’s very fun. Armed with the slogan “the best quilt is the fullest” it sees you competing to patch and collect buttons, with matches played online against other players around the world.That’s our selection, now tell us what you think. The comments section is open for your thoughts on the apps and games above, as well as your recommendations for new ones that we missed.• The best Android apps of 2015• The best Android games of 2015