The Mexican actor Kate del Castillo, who arranged the Rolling Stone magazine interview between Sean Penn and drug lord Joaquín “El Chapo” Guzmán that reportedly led to the cartel leader’s arrest this month, has said she is ready to tell the full story of the affair.Del Castillo, 43, a well-known film and television actor in Mexico, tweeted to thank fans for their support and protest her innocence over what appeared to be a friendship with the world’s most powerful drug trafficker before his capture by Mexican marines on 8 January.kate del castillo (@katedelcastillo)pic.twitter.com/K8Koo84p7fJanuary 13, 2016“Thank you for your support over the past days,” wrote Del Castillo, who last appeared on the big screen in the Chilean mine disaster drama The 33. “Not surprisingly, many have chosen to make up items they think will make good news stories and that aren’t truthful. I look forward to sharing my story.” Lawyer explains Sean Penn to El Chapo: you know, the guy who made 21 Grams Mexican newspaper Milenio on Wednesday published what it said were a series of flirtatious text messages between Del Castillo and Guzman prior to the actor’s arrangement of the interview with Penn for Rolling Stone magazine, which was conducted last October and published on 9 January. It also emerged that El Chapo had little to no idea about Penn’s double Oscar win, nor his notoriety as a leftwing advocate, asking: “That was his most recent film?” when told the Hollywood star was well known for 2003’s 21 Grams.Mexican authorities say El Chapo wanted to make a biopic of his life and instructed his lawyers to enlist the help of Del Castillo – best known for her portrayal of a cartel boss in the hit series La Reina del Sur (Queen of the South). Planning for the project inadvertently alerted the authorities to El Chapo’s whereabouts and eventually forced him to flee his stronghold in the Sierra Madre mountains. It is not known whether Penn and Del Castillo will face investigation for their actions by the Mexican authorities.Earlier this week, the veteran US talk show host Charlie Rose, of CBS News, said he had landed the first interview with Penn following the furore. “We’ll be able to sit down and I have a thousand questions for Sean. It’s a remarkable story,” he told reporters in California, adding: “I’m definitely doing an interview but at what time, we don’t know yet … I’m prepared to do it whenever I get the green light from him and his lawyers.”