It sounds like a secret martial arts school hidden in the Forbidden Forest bordering Hogwarts, or at least a Dragon’s Den spin-off. But it is, in fact, a preparatory school in Oxford that has hothoused some of Britain’s most posh and watchable actors. Three of them anyway. Tom Hiddleston, Tom Hollander and Hugh Laurie share two things in common (well, three for the two called Tom). All of them appeared as their suavest selves in the BBC’s brilliant The Night Manager. And all of them were educated at the same private school along the banks of the River Cherwell in leafiest North Oxford.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The preparatory school in Oxford has hothoused some of Britain’s most watchable actors. Photograph: AlamyWelcome to Dragon School, a co-educational boarding and day school founded by a group of Oxford University dons for their own children in 1877 (which must be the Oxford Dictionary definition of elitist). Run for years by one family, disappointingly called Lynam not Dragon, its vibe according to their website is “robust informality and relaxed rigour”. Termly fees are £9,340 for boarding and £6,480 for day attendance. More than a third of preparatory pupils board, with 16% from British families living abroad and 4% foreign nationals from all over the world.Alumni, or in school parlance “Eminent Dragons”, include writers John Betjeman, Antonia Fraser and Alain de Botton. Journalists include Peter Jay, David Shukman and Rageh Omaar. Lots of politicians – Hugh Gaitskell, Baroness Young, Rory Stewart – and sportsmen including Tim Henman. Also actors. As well as the Night Manager trio, actors who have spewed forth from the Dragon’s mouth include Emma Watson, Jack Davenport, Hugh Dancy, Dom Joly, Jack Whitehall and presumably lots of actors we haven’t heard of called Tom, Jack, Hugh, or Emma.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dragon old boy John Betjeman. Photograph: Ian Dickson/Rex/ShutterstockSo the Dragon is the lair not just of the British elite, and not just of the British acting elite, but of a particularly smooth sliver of the British acting elite, namely the kind that gets offered a lead role in a top-notch BBC spy drama. Men who are white, plummy toned, silver-tongued, wear a suit with aplomb, do irony with their eyebrows, seriousness with their smiles, and can say the word “damn” with complete integrity.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Emma Watson also attended Dragon School. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images for Bafta LALaurie left the Dragon in 1972, aged 13. Hiddleston, the youngest of the three, left in 1994 to go on to Eton and then, naturally, Cambridge. “It was an absolute riot,” he told Run Riot magazine of his time there. “I don’t remember ‘learning’ anything, and yet I learned everything.” Hollander, who also went on to Cambridge, has credited the atmosphere of the school with his love of acting. According to a Dragon Christmas charity sale programme, for which Hollander performed the opening address, he won the title role of Oliver in the school play on account of his loud voice (with Tim Luke, once senior advisor to David Cameron on business, trade and innovation, playing one of Fagin’s boys). And in his final year he played the leading lady in The Pirates of Penzance. “Years later he was cast in Pirates of the Carribean,” the programme observed. “The leading lady, however, was played by Keira Knightley.”