Free Comic Book Day      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Civil War II. Photograph: MarvelDeadpool to Power Rangers: comic-book movies' new irreverence In the old days, comic shops used to be ratty and reliably pungent. After being forced to compete with digital comic sales, stores that have survived into the 21st century tend to be bright and whiff-free. But how do you convince potential new customers to cross the threshold? You bribe them. Free Comic Book Day (FCBD) is the industry’s annual campaign to win hearts and minds, and 2016 was its most ambitious push yet. On 7 May more than 2,000 comic shops worldwide gave away 6m free issues from a pick’n’mix of 50 different FCBD-branded titles. Imagine Record Store Day but with more staff dressed as Captain America.Marvel and DC usually dominate comic shops through sheer product volume alone. The former chose to spotlight their next big crossover event with a free Civil War II prequel that finally delivered what their cinematic arm has been teasing for years: a proper ruck between knobbly-chinned purple space warlord Thanos and (some of) the Avengers. DC opted to reprint a four-year-old issue of Suicide Squad, presumably betting that even comics greenhorns would be aware of the relentlessly hyped movie due later this year.But FCBD also gives minnow publishers like Darby Pop and Hermes Press as much shelf shout as the “big two”, meaning there were also plenty of intriguing outliers and oddities. Up-and-coming publisher Black Mask crammed two of its series – superpowered slacker saga We Can Never Go Home and savage thriller Young Terrorists – into one striking FCBD issue, offering the most bang for your no-bucks. Hallowed indie imprint Drawn And Quarterly, meanwhile, presented an excerpt from Guardian cartoonist Tom Gauld’s upcoming Mooncop, which follows the misadventures of the last policeman on a declining lunar colony.Love And Rockets'There's nothing like it in comics' … how Love and Rockets broke the rules       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Love and Rockets 8. Photograph: Publicity imageEven if FCBD’s core mission is to attract new consumers, though, there was one offering seemingly designed to quicken the pulse of grizzled comics fans: Love And Rockets by Jaime and Gilbert Hernandez. It wasn’t really the free comic itself, a game attempt to create a primer for the Hernandez brothers’ long-running dual sagas of love, lust, booze and bursts of magical realism. It was more what the FCBD issue heralded: that Love And Rockets will return as an ongoing comic book this summer. For hardcore fans of the art form, that’s a more tantalising prospect than Jared Leto going full Juggalo as the Joker.The Punisher      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Punisher issue 1. Photograph: MarvelPreacher: is Seth Rogen's new show the best comic book adaptation ever? This month also saw Marvel relaunch The Punisher as a brand-new monthly series from rising writer Becky Cloonan and veteran artist Steve Dillon. It’s a smart move, since the trigger-happy vigilante’s public profile has never been higher after his extended guest appearance in season two of Daredevil. With a severe buzzcut and soulful grimace, Jon Bernthal certainly looked the part of Frank Castle but his Punisher turned out to be surprisingly chatty for an emotionally hollowed-out angel of death waging an endless war on crime. Cloonan, the first woman to write a Punisher series, takes a slightly different approach. Her Frank is as murderously efficient as ever, dismantling a drug operation with excessive gunplay and some gruesome business with a breeze block, but he remains silent throughout the first issue. Combined with Dillon’s heightened artwork, it creates the most intimidating incarnation of the Punisher in years, though his renewed scariness is offset by Cloonan’s creepy new antagonist the Face. A slick fixer with a particularly grisly fetish, the Face looks to be a memorable addition to Frank’s rogues’ gallery.Archangel      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Archangel 1. Photograph: IDW PublishingWilliam Gibson will for ever be associated with cyberpunk dystopias but Archangel, his first foray into comics, is about literally escaping from a ruined, tech-choked future. With artist Butch Guice, Gibson has fashioned an alternate history tale that involves desperate, selfish survivors from a shattered 2016 creating an entirely new timeline with the sole intention of hijacking the endgame of the second world war.The action plays out in Berlin 1945, with a formidable female British intelligence officer unravelling the mystery of a downed UFO pilot with unusual tattoos. Like many authors who turn their hand to comics, Gibson’s attempt feels respectful and a little old-fashioned rather than groundbreaking. Thankfully, Archangel’s first issue (of four) fairly rattles along, like a cross between vintage Commando comics with a dash of Dan Dare.