If ever an actor was born to play Richard III it might be Mat Fraser. This is a character who, from the very first speech, outlines his intent to “descant on my deformity”; and Fraser – who was born with underdeveloped arms after his mother was prescribed thalidomide during pregnancy – has developed a 25-year career doing precisely that. “A director once said to me: ‘Mat, I can get to know you, learn where not to look and so on, but as soon as you leave the room and come back in – bam - it’s shocking again.’ So I thought – that’s useful to know. Maybe I should use that.”A former punk drummer, Fraser made his first stage appearances with Graeae in the early 1990s and is now one of Britain’s most recognised disabled performers, having fronted the television coverage of the 2012 Paralympic Games and sat in on drums with Coldplay for the closing ceremony. As an actor-producer he has been responsible for such deliberately provocative projects as Thalidomide!! A Musical and the first “cripsploitation” action-movie Kung Fu Flid: Unarmed but Dangerous. For the past five years he has been based in New York, having achieved mainstream success in the US television drama American Horror Story: Freak Show.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I consider myself to be quite an adept manipulator’ … Mat Fraser as Richard III. Photograph: Nobby ClarkNow in his mid-50s, Fraser still looks fighting fit (literally so, since he has a black belt in taekwondo and once described himself as “Bruce Willis with no arms”). But he admits that the invitation to play Richard in Northern Broadsides’ production is the major, classical acting gig that he never thought would materialise. “To be honest I’d begun to feel a bit like yesterday’s cripple,” he says. “I wasn’t sure if I’d be offered a straight acting role in England again. But then (Northern Broadsides artistic director) Barrie Rutter got in touch about the production he was planning to mark the company’s 25th anniversary and I was straight on the plane.”Eight years ago, Fraser appeared in Channel Four’s reality television satire Cast Offs, which featured a group of disabled people stranded on a desert island and popularised the phrase “spacking-up is the new blacking-up”. Given that the discovery of Richard’s skeleton revealed evidence of scoliosis (curvature of the spine) is it about time that the role was claimed by disabled actors?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Punk drummer … Fraser in the Channel 4 documentary Born Freak. Photograph: Channel 4“We decided that we’d make a feature of the deformity I’ve got rather than inventing new ones,” Fraser says. “So this will be a Richard with short arms and no hump. My theory is that Richard almost certainly had some issues with body hatred. But there’s only so much soul-searching about the real Richard that seems appropriate to do. It’s quite a simple job, really, to play the character that Shakespeare wrote. And that is basically someone who states from the very beginning: ‘I’m an evil fucker – watch me go.’”So to what extent will Fraser’s characterisation of the king be coloured by his own experience? “What I will say is this: one of the ways in which disabled people can relate to Richard III is that they have been forced to adopt the by-any-means-necessary attitude towards life. I consider myself to be quite an adept manipulator of social situations because, since the normal routes of advancement are not available to me, all rules are off. Richard takes it to extremes of course - I wouldn’t go so far as to kill anybody. But I have been known to play people off one another to get something I wanted.”Neither is Fraser inclined to sidestep the late-medieval worldview of a play which equates deformity with moral corruption. “In the 15th century, to have a disability meant you were the work of the devil,” he says. “I see no reason to downplay the fact that other characters might find Richard physically repellent. When I force my kiss on Lady Anne, for example, I think it may be safe to say that she might not enjoy it.”Yet despite Richard’s claim to be “rudely stamped and want love’s majesty/ To strut before a wanton, ambling nymph”, his success as a seducer seems to prove the opposite. And Fraser’s parallel career on the American neo-burlesque circuit indicates that an unusual physical appearance can exert a powerful erotic attraction. He first explored Coney Island’s vaudevillian sideshows in 2001 for a Channel 4 documentary, Born Freak; and quickly became adopted as part of the family. In 2012 he married burlesque superstar Julie Atlas Muz and regularly performs summer seasons under his freak-show alias, Sealo the Seal Boy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In rehearsal for Richard III at Hull Truck theatre, with Ruth Alexander-Rubin as Lady Anne. Photograph: Nobby Clark“The act is based on a performer from the 1940s named Stanislaus Berent, who had phocomelia, which literally means ‘seal-like limbs’,’’ Fraser explains. “I treat it as a form of brutalist performance art; and the great thing about it is that I get to reach a completely different demographic. The sideshows attract a fascinating mix of blue-collar New Yorkers, tattooed lesbians and the occasional British tourists who wander in, recognise me from the television, and react with absolute horror because they think it must be the only work I can get.”Fraser has recently returned from the Adelaide festival, where he and his wife have been performing their acclaimed – and extremely explicit – autobiographical love story, Beauty and the Beast. Seen in London at the Young Vic in 2013, the show is a scabrously funny, true-life fairytale that climaxes in a riotous parody of an Amsterdam sex-show. “It’s really intended as a commentary on body-image and self-acceptance” Fraser says, “though once you’ve got your penis out on the international festival circuit there’s really no other place you can go.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Love story … Mat Fraser with his wife Julie Atlas Muz in Beauty and the Beast. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianHaving spurned further adult work, Fraser is now on a mission to introduce American audiences to the joys of traditional English pantomime. He has booked the community arts centre in his Lower East Side neighbourhood and is raising funds to produce a Christmas show with himself playing the Baron Hardup role and a trans actor cast as the principal boy. “It won’t be cutting-edge and it won’t be cool,” he enthuses, “but there will be slapstick and we don’t care.”“Not caring what other people think of me has always been my default position in life,” Fraser continues. “In the first days of rehearsal for Richard III, I made the mistake of trying to tap into his caring side. But the fact is, he doesn’t care. He’s a nasty, vicious piece of work and he loves it.” Richard III is at Hull Truck theatre, until 27 May. Box office: 01482 323638. Then at the Viaduct theatre, Halifax, 30 May-3 June Box office: 01422 255266.