Throughout our Guardian Lagos week, we’ve wanted above all to see the megacity through the eyes of its residents. The fantastic photographer Adebule Oluwatobi (@oluwatamo) took over our Guardian Cities account to share his images of the city. Three other Lagos Instagrammers – Adeyinka Yusuf (@adeyinka.yusuf), Samuel Okocha (@samokocha) and Devesh Uba (@snapitoga) – also got involved, capturing the neighbourhoods, people, streetscapes, transport and daily life of their city. Our readers from Lagos also shared their brilliant photos of the city by tagging them with the hashtag #GuardianLagos. Here are some highlights of the week – thanks to everyone who participated. Portraits of Lagos‘They worry about everything. I worry about nothing’. A man sits in the middle of a busy road.‘The orange seller.’Street lifeA man carries containers across a pedestrian bridge during a fuel scarcity. Photograph:@oluwatamo‘The Free Readers’ Association, a group who gathers daily at newspaper stands in order to read newspapers without paying or by paying a token amount. People gather here to share their passions, frustrations, goals and desires. They discuss issues ranging from sports, politics, sex and entertainment. Newsstands hold a place in our society similar to that of Barber shops in the African American Community.’‘A vendor holds up his goods beside a road. One of the common things sold in Lagos traffic is bubblegum.’Development and construction‘An aerial view of Lekki, a major highbrow area of Lagos known for many housing and construction projects.’A construction site in Lagos.Getting around‘A commercial tricycle (Keke) passes through a pool of water after the first major rains in weeks in Lagos.’‘A guy rides a bicycle through his neighbourhood in the Obalende area of Lagos.’Night-time LagosTwo commercial buses wait for the traffic light in Surulere, Lagos. Photograph:@oluwatamo‘Lagos hustle knows no age, tribe or gender.’Follow @guardiancities on Instagram and tag your best city shots with #guardiancities