Hamilton: the Revolution, a book and audiobook examining the creation and plot of the hit musical Hamilton, will not only be narrated by authors Lin-Manuel Miranda – creator and star of the show – and Jeremy McCarter, but also by Law & Order: SVU star Mariska Hargitay, according to Entertainment Weekly.“I’m hard-pressed to express how thrilled and honored I am to do this,” Hargitay said. “Lin-Manuel’s Hamilton enthralls me, and to think that I get to play a part in telling the story of how this masterpiece came into existence, it’s really just a lot to take in.”How did Hamilton become Broadway's breakout hit? Hamilton superfans who are unable to get the seemingly unattainable tickets to a live performance will be able to buy the book on 12 April, in hardcover and audiobook. The book’s introduction and lyric annotations will be narrated by Miranda and McCarter, cultural critic and theater artist. Hargitay will read the prose sections.“Mariska, in addition to being the No 1 fan of the show, represents, to me, much of what Hamilton is about – tough, smart, and New York,” Manuel said. “She’s an essential part of this city; it feels only right for her to narrate the story.” Lin-Manuel Miranda (@Lin_Manuel)Here's the full title of the #Hamiltome. pic.twitter.com/NerwzvXp1MMarch 9, 2016Lin-Manuel Miranda (@Lin_Manuel)A glimpse of my lyric annotations in the #Hamiltome. Meet Me Inside. pic.twitter.com/GLkZ3aBE5PFebruary 19, 2016The book follows the journey of the play from a one-song performance at the White House to its opening night on Broadway. It will include profiles of all 11 principals and more than 40 interviews, several of which are with Hamilton biographer Ron Chernow, according to Vulture. Miranda also wrote more than 200 footnotes about his award-winning musical.“When Lin told me that there was going to be a book about the show and proposed that he and I do it together, I wasn’t sure what the book could be until I thought about the fact that Hamilton tells the story of a revolution, but it is itself a revolution, and the book could be a way for readers to watch those two revolutions happen in tandem,” McCarter told Vulture.