A football manager can replace an injured player with a substitute eager to come off the bench, but when a small music ensemble goes a man down it faces a trickier situation. The foundation of a string quartet is formed over a long period of time from the musical and personal bonds that evolve between four individuals. Nonetheless, the decision we took several years ago to purchase life insurance polices for each other felt awkward. Until we became accustomed to our peculiar status as each other’s beneficiaries, minor illnesses were observed with wry attentiveness. Towards the end of a European tour, as I lay prostrate in the check-in area of Bordeaux airport fighting a virus, we pondered whether to cancel our next concert. When we continued our journey, our second violinist, Károly Schranz, grinned mischievously. “For a while there my new Lamborghini seemed hopeful.” Along with cellist András Féjer, Károly is one of the two remaining original members of the Takács Quartet, formed in 1975 in the Franz Liszt Academy in Budapest. Gábor Takács-Nagy, after whom the quartet was named, left the group in 1992 and is now a successful conductor and teacher. The founding violist, Gábor Ormai, died of cancer in 1995.Does Beethoven's music reveal his African roots? It requires a leap of faith to throw in your lot with three other musicians on whose well-being your livelihood depends. Geraldine Walther left her tenured position as principal violist in the San Francisco Symphony to join us in 2005. She was inspired by some of the same aims that led me to join the group 23 years ago, such as the prospect of exploring the immensely varied music written for string quartet. During my audition for the Takács, I was drawn to the spirit of discovery and self-determination that suffused rehearsals. The freedom to discuss the emotion or texture of the sound we wish to convey in any given musical phrase, and to see how our choices play out in performance, more than compensates for our reliance on each other. To perform, say, the slow movement of a late Beethoven quartet is to attain a blissful state, liberated from the confines of individual personalities. It requires a leap of faith to throw in your lot with three other musicians on whose well-being your livelihood depends Or at least, that is the experience we hope for. The greatest pieces of music are often the most elusive. The opening section of “Heiliger Dankgesang”, the immense slow movement that is the centrepiece of Beethoven’s late string quartet, Op 132, should be straightforward. How can a hushed, slow-moving chorale where we all play the same rhythm be so challenging? During a recent concert I found it hard to judge the pacing of this uneventful music which contrasts with the frenetic tempo of our touring lives. Struggling on stage to maintain my energy, I could not judge if we were communicating an appropriate sense of repose or merely sounded lethargic. Typically, Beethoven’s musical phrases tell a rapidly evolving story, requiring a sense of direction and clear shaping, but here the pace of events is extraordinarily slow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Portrait of Beethoven. Photograph: Alfredo Dagli Orti/The Art Archive/CorbisThe unusual characteristics of this movement arise in part from the circumstances under which the music was composed. In May 1825, Beethoven was recovering at the spa resort of Baden from a combination of abdominal ailments, the most dangerous of which had threatened to turn into inflammation of the bowel – at that time a fatal condition. He composed the Op 132 slow movement, “Heiliger Dankgesang eines Genesenen an die Gottheit, in der lydischen Tonart” (Holy Song of Thanks by a Convalescent to the Deity, in the Lydian Mode), during this time. It lasts around 15 minutes, in which the predominantly serene mood is contrasted with more vigorous music, entitled “Neue Kraft Fühlend” (Feeling New Strength).Before our next concert, each of my colleagues suggested a way to improve our rendition. András wished for less restless motion as we moved from one chord to the next; Geri for a steady pulse so that she could approach each chord change with confidence. Károly thought we could create a more airy sound. I wanted our presence to be self-effacing, in order to suggest the convalescent praying to a higher power, but perhaps this had caused me to be too withdrawn and unaware of the musical impulses around me. Instead of sitting back in my chair with my eyes occasionally shut, I should assume a more forward posture, playing into the group and trying to sense how my colleagues felt the pulse, so that I could cue the changes with greater clarity. Hopefully we would be able to define a clear tempo and create a more peaceful prayer.Throughout his life, Beethoven turned to nature for spiritual and physical rejuvenation. Baden was somewhere he could recover from serious illness, but as he continued work on the “Heiliger Dankgesang”, his experience differed from the music’s narrative of recovery. On 13 May 1825, Beethoven wrote a letter to his doctor that included a gift in the form of a musical canon, set to the words, “Doctor, close the door ’gainst death, notes shall inspire my breath.” In the letter, written as a fictional dialogue between doctor and patient, Beethoven also suggests he may need more powerful medicine. A few days later, he reported to his nephew Karl that he was beginning to compose again. But the next day, complaining of diarrhoea, he considered ignoring the doctor’s embargo on coffee: the doctor seemed ‘a bit of a fool’. Although his initial idea for the Heiliger Dankgesang was inspired by his most recent brush with death and subsequent convalescence, Beethoven’s prayer of thanks had to withstand the fluctuating state of his health and moods.In September, 1825, Beethoven conducted the first private performances of Op 132. On one occasion he seized the second violinist Karl Holz’s instrument to correct an incorrect bow stroke: unable to hear the pitches, the deaf composer played it a quarter-tone flat. As we toured, I wished he were able to consult him, even if his unpredictable behaviour made his performers feel less than grateful for his advice. During our second concert I cued the changes of note more clearly, resigned to the reality that a performer cannot be entirely self-effacing. Geri enjoyed the steadier pulse, András played more sustained notes in the bass to create a longer line, and we implemented Károly’s suggestion to risk playing even more quietly. There were no miraculous revelations or dramatic changes of interpretation, but the demands of this unusual music had forced us to modify our approach.Whenever we come back to the “Heiliger Dankgesang” we must go through a process of readjustment, reminding ourselves of the unusual musical character, and the need to sustain a flowing but patient musical line. A player taken ill in an airport check-in area reminds us of the fragile nature of our dependent relationships, but to work on and perform this transcendent slow movement, written by a lonely convalescent not entirely confident of his recovery, reaffirms the faith we have made in each other.• Beethoven for a Later Age: The Journey of a String Quartet is published by Faber. The Takács Quartet and Aleksandar Madžar will play Beethoven, Timo Andres and Elgar at Wigmore Hall, London on 3 February