Omer Fast, GatesheadIn Omer Fast’s 2011 video work 5,000 Feet Is The Best, a former operator of Predator drones explains that the distance is ideal for watching the target’s cigarette flare like a beacon. “It’s quite beautiful,” he recounts. The piece is typical of the Jerusalem-born, Berlin-based artist’s multi-screen installations here, with their ambivalent themes and deliberate confusion of highly politicised documentary and almost poetic fiction. The exhibition presents painstakingly recomposed fragments of various traumas and crises that tend to connect with our collective subconsciousness. CNN Concatenated is an 18-minute collage of thousands of single spoken words sampled from the US rolling news network rearranged to form an ambiguous but threatening narrative. Something is going on and we don’t know what it is. Fast’s inventive skills make us feel and share the uncertainty.BALTIC, to 26 JunRCJac Leirner, LondonGiven that, as a child, she was surrounded by some of the best Brazilian modern art (her father being one of the most renowned collectors in the country), it’s perhaps unsurprising that Jac Leirner makes work that utilises both the language and aesthetics of Latin American modernism, specifically its reliance on everyday materials. The artist accumulates prosaic objects and then arranges them into groupings that reference her biography. While in the past this has included works made of museum gift shop bags, worthless banknotes from Brazil’s period of hyperinflation, and business cards of arts professionals whom she has met, this show promises to be the most personal yet, dealing with the ephemera related to Leirner’s drug use.White Cube At Mason’s Yard, SW1, to 14 MayOBElizabeth Price, OxfordAwarded the 2013 Contemporary Art Society award – a prize that funds collaborations between artists and museums – Price now digs deep into the archives of two of the host institutions. The result is typical of the artist’s trademark technological futurist vision, in that any sense of hierarchy between the material world and the digital realm is destroyed. At the Ashmolean, Price presents a 20-minute, two-screen video in which a choir made up of museum administrators narrates the story of Arthur Evans’s archaeological excavation of the Cretan city of Knossos, and explains how this ancient site is reconstructed within the museum’s computer servers. How the experienced world is represented through filing is also the subject of the artist’s work at the Pitt Rivers Museum. Here, the photographic archives created by the museum’s first curator, historically ordered by type – clothing, music and games, magic, religion and ceremonies – provide Price’s subject matter.Ashmolean Museum, to 15 May; Pitt Rivers Museum, to 29 MayOBRembrandt: Self Portrait At The Age Of 63, Kendal      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rembrandt, Self Portrait at the Age of 63. Photograph: The National Gallery, LondonPainted in 1669, the year he died, Rembrandt’s Self Portrait At The Age of 63 is one of the most profoundly moving reflections on mortality ever created. While 63 might not seem as old these days as it did back then, the portrait is as haunting now as it ever was. Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the image is that it seems so disarmingly down to earth. With his humble beret and thick coat, the artist is deeply drawn into a murky backdrop. Then that black look – half-buried in a pasty, puffed-up, well-worn face – emerges and beckons us into the shadows. As the great Jean Genet said of Rembrandt’s late paintings: “He presents himself in his madness of daubing, mad with colour, losing the airs and hypocrisy of pretenders.” On loan from the National Gallery, this is a rare treat for Kendal.Abbot Hall Art Gallery, Sat to 15 MayRCSimon Starling, NottinghamIn the second season of a programme that revisits the classic tradition of the “grand tour”, the 2005 Turner Prize-winner Simon Starling stages his largest ever UK exhibition. While the idea of contemporary art research often gets infected by academic self-interest, Starling’s professional work engages in expansive cultural inquiry. The installation Project For A Crossing, specially created for this show, draws a link between bike frame manufacturing and the West Bank. To get there, the artist has constructed a boat from magnesium extracted from the politically contested waters of the Dead Sea; after the show’s closing, Starling then intends to sail the boat across it.Nottingham Contemporary, Sat to 26 JunRCMichael Dean, LondonMichael Dean’s sculptures have a habit of making the viewer feel a tad self-conscious. Which is presumably their purpose, given that these abstract lumps, most often in concrete, reference the body, its physical mass and the space in which it moves. At a recent exhibition in Amsterdam, the artist installed twisting forms, standing at average human height. Its title, Qualities Of Violence, reiterated the movement suggested by the sculptures. Disembodied tongues, often perched on the architectural structures Dean builds to house his works, are also a recurring motif, signposting the artist’s interest in language. In this new show, he has built his works from an abstract text he has written.South London Gallery, SE5, to 22 MayOBAt Home, WakefieldYorkshire Sculpture Park’s small but charming Bothy Gallery – once the home of the surrounding Bretton Estate’s head gardener – has been refurbished in time for the launch of this exhibition, which is centred on a domestic theme. Curated from the Arts Council Collection and featuring more than 40 works, dating from between 1937 to 2004, the show asks how artists have conformed to the conventions and compromises of the family setup. Despite touching ground with a Duncan Grant still-life, predictably the answer must be not too comfortably at all, unless with some kind of mischievous intent. Arch subversives Joseph Beuys, Sophie Calle and Damien Hirst will be present, while Yoko Ono’s all-white chess set on an all-white chess board stands to frustrate any hope of amiably passing the time. Even the dream-time enchantment of Roger Hiorns’s crystal-covered life-size apartment, rebuilt near the Bothy garden, is titled Seizure.Yorkshire Sculpture Park, Sat to 3 JulRC