Without a sheepdog, you’re no shepherd. You’re just a bloke running around waving your hands. Sheep are faster than you, cleverer, and they’re on their own terrain. To manage 500 sheep you’d need 200 shepherds. But with 20 dogs you can get away with five or six people.I grew up as a typical farm lad. I wanted to do what my granddad and dad did. I knew the wider world was there, I just wasn’t terribly impressed by it. It seemed to me you could be like David Bowie or George Michael, or you could be a modest hard-working person, living a good life.Our landscape is not the biggest or wildest or most dramatic. But what I love is the continuity: the idea that we’re doing something people did 1,000 years ago or maybe even 5,000 years ago. I’m fascinated by its particular history: because the Industrial Revolution started in Manchester, the Lake District [where Rebanks lives] was the first place where people started to defend historic farming landscapes.My father and I didn’t have a very talkative relationship. We were just two lives that were intertwined. He died soon after my book [2015’s The Shepherd’s Life] came out, so I’m getting to grips with him not being around. I think he was surprised that he came out of my book as a fucking legend.I despised Wordsworth at first. I thought he reduced the Lake District to a chocolate-box fantasy. Later I realised he was a radical man who had a deep view of the place and the families in it, and why they mattered. He thought these places were laboratories that the rest of the world could learn from.I went to Oxford purely to try to beat lots of obnoxious posh people, because that was the chip that was on my shoulder at the time. I didn’t have a good time, didn’t socialise at all. I already had a group of friends at home, and a girlfriend who is now my wife.Around the world, traditional farming is being trashed in the name of a lot of bad ideas. Industrial food production is destroying biodiversity, landscapes and lives, and it’s because our food-buying mechanism is wrong. I get no reward for farming in a sustainable way, for having barn owls or otters on my land.My wife is training me to go on holidays. We love Corsica. It’s like a hot, beautiful version of the Lake District.The two things I wanted to achieve were to save my family farm and write a book that lots of people would read and like. I’m pleased I’ve done those things, but it hasn’t necessarily made me the nicest person. I’m a little bit too intense, slightly manic. I need to chill out a bit.I love Tolstoy. He explored why we feel that we want to be scything or digging a hole, why we want to be connected to the land, even if we are in an office in Singapore or London.The Shepherd’s Life by James Rebanks is out now in paperback (£8.99, Penguin). To order a copy for £7.19, go to bookshop.theguardian.com