Michael Morpurgo is famous for his fantastic storytelling, particularly about historical periods such as during the world wars. There is usually a deeper meaning and a lesson to learn behind each story and often a strong relationship between animals and humans. Listen to the Moon is set during the first world war and the connection between a horse and human is very important. So this book seems a typical Morpurgo tale.The main characters of the book are young Alfie Wheatcroft and his parents: Jim and Mary. They live on the Scilly Isles where they lead their lives in the idyllic countryside. One day, Alfie stays off school to go fishing with his father and they find a homeless girl. She is ill, tired and covered in bruises. How she came to be like this is a mystery. When the girl is first rescued, the only word she speaks sounds like ‘Lucy’. So the Wheatcrofts decide to call her Lucy Lost and attempt to uncover where she’s from and who she belongs to.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Finally Lucy Lost starts to talk to the family she has been living with, after becoming especially close with Alfie’s mother. Lucy shows the family all her amazing talents; for example, she can draw, play the piano and ride Peg, an untamed horse. She is also enchanted by the night sky, in particular the moon. The whole island become intrigued by her. Unfortunately, people quickly start to question her true identity. Is she staying silent because she is German? Is she a German spy? Fear of a German living among them in these times of war spreads throughout the island...I found this book quite long, and for the first quarter I struggled to keep interested. However, once Lucy’s German identity is discovered, the book began to come alive. The chapters written in the voice of ‘Lucy’ are especially compelling. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? However many books I read by Michael Morpurgo, I never tire of his style of writing and emotional intelligence. If you are a fan of his, as most people seem to be, Listen to the Moon is another of his books to add to your collection. Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!