The Stone Roses playing smaller venues in unfashionable small towns is a Beautiful ThingEver since they started, the Stone Roses have made a habit of playing surprise gigs in unusual locations, from railway arches to disused warehouses. They’ve tapped into this tradition again with the suggestion that they will be playing some gigs in towns big bands rarely visit, which began with last week’s surprise gigs in Halifax and Carlisle. I wasn’t at the latter, but the Halifax gig felt truly special, as a locality more used to seeing tribute acts and fading comics responded to the visit of rock royalty with an outpouring of love and proper pandemonium: the Victoria Theatre was absolutely shaking. Like many small towns, Halifax has been economically struggling and the population haven’t had much to shout about lately, so it was a humbling, moving experience to see the pubs full, the band on fire, the venue buzzing and the lovely, small, unfashionable Yorkshire locality radiating absolute, pure joy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Classic lineup … the Stone Roses in 1990, (clockwise from top left) John Squire, Ian Brown, Reni, Mani. Photograph: Mike Prior/RedfernsThe Stone Roses are not necessarily best suited to stadium extravaganzas Stone Roses – 10 of the best On Wednesday night, the Roses founds themselves up against the conundrum faced by big bands since the Beatles: after honing their craft and building their reputation in smaller venues, they are suddenly so popular they have to play in sheds. There were moments at the first of four Etihad shows that were beyond stellar – not least the massed communal celebrations in This Is the One and I Am The Resurrection – but the Halifax gig felt that little bit more special. The acts that work best in stadiums embrace showmanship, but the Stone Roses are not one of those bands. The Etihad show had nice lighting and giant John Squire artwork projections on the stage, and it was nice to hear the band’s sterling musicianship not drowned out by a cheering audience, but sans visual extravaganzas, the more delicate songs became even more slight.Ian Brown is singing almost as well as he did in 1989/90This may come as a shock to anyone who has endured long and misty-eyed reminiscences from the likes of me about just what a transportive experience the Roses were in the hot summer of 1989, but Ian Brown has never been a particularly great singer. There have been times – especially the ignominy of Reading 1996 – when he couldn’t have located a tune with a satnav. However, what he had in 1989 was a voice that absolutely suited the character of the songs: gentle at times, but raw and vitriolic when needed to deliver lines such as “You’re a no-good, washed-up baby who’d look better dead”. Somehow, whether through giving up smoking or simply having a break from touring, he has regained his vocal range. Of course, there are times when his voice will go horribly wayward – in Halifax it was Waterfall, at the Etihad it was the start of Made of Stone – but it’s impossible to imagine anybody else delivering these songs.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to new track All For OneThe Stone Roses review – stadium-sized eruptions of communal joy Ian Brown is not Made of Stone It was Brown, of course, who paved the way for every similarly cocksure, Ali-shuffling, insouciant, attitude-laden singer from Liam Gallagher to Steve Mason. However, the Roses’ gentler songs (and even his long and very public and bitter feud with best friend/guitarist John Squire) suggest rhat that beneath the bravado is a man who wounds easily and feels things deeply. I was struck by this again at the Etihad, when Brown surveyed the hometown crowd and looked unusually emotional. Northern working class men, in particular, are not given to outward displays of emotion, but the release of such pent-up sentiments inspires the music and the audience’s reaction to it. If Halifax was euphoric and celebratory, Manchester’s reconnection with songs written when the world must have seemed a much less complicated, hate-ridden place that it has done recently felt eerily powerful, packed with resonance and heft.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Different generation … Stone Roses fans in Manchester. Photograph: MCPIX/Rex/ShutterstockThe Stone Roses came from a culture that has been lost In Halifax, Brown introduced Made of Stone as “the sound of the unemployed”, which seemed like a throwaway soundbite, but in Manchester he took the theme up again: “This is what we used to do.” It became obvious that he was talking about dole culture. In the 80s and early 90s, even in the throes of Thatcherism, the Roses and others like them could still learn their craft while claiming unemployment benefit, without undue pressure to get a job or be forced on to some unwelcome course or other. Working-class people made up much of the music industry and ordinary young people could access and afford public transport, cheap vans, free parking, cheap housing or even squats. Nowadays, it is harder and more expensive to live, never mind take years out to really hone a band, and record companies rarely allow acts time to develop. Unless the pendulum somehow swings again, we risk not just losing the culture that spawned the Roses, but the likelihood of producing more bands like them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reni (Alan Wren) in charge of beats at the Etihad Stadium, Manchester. Photograph: MCPIX/Rex/ShutterstockThe Stone Roses must not let Reni leave again  Every great band has a classic line-up, and risk tampering with that precious chemistry at their peril. On the face of it, the drummer is the most obviously replaceable component of a band but while fans are divided over the merits of a live Led Zeppelin without John Bonham, or Black Sabbath minus Bill Ward, the idea of a Reni-free Roses is untenable. We experienced this in the 90s when Reni vacated the drum stool prior to the Second Coming gigs and – replaced by a competent enough sticksman in Robbie Maddix – the Roses simply didn’t swing. By contrast, the man Pete Townshend once hailed as “the most natural drummer I’ve seen since Keith Moon” has been the individual delight of the last week’s gigs. With an extra bass drum, what look like new teeth and a grin that never leaves his face, Reni has regained his youthful pomp and is playing as well as ever. His backing singing and those trademark funky grooves are powering the band with a gusto that they haven’t had in years. 