The turning point in the career of Denise Gough occurred one afternoon on the fourth floor of the National Theatre, when she found herself, as she recalls, “snorting half a gram of icing sugar up my nose and crying uncontrollably”. This unusual use of a tool of Mary Berry’s trade occurred during Gough’s final audition for the role of a multiply-addicted young woman in Duncan Macmillan’s play People, Places and Things, which, after receiving Olivier and London Evening Standard best actress nominations, is about to transfer to the West End. The London run has already been extended, possibly due to demand for tickets from Gough’s extended family. She grew up in Ireland’s County Clare as one of 11 children, whose order she fluently recites, including herself because “otherwise it ruins the rhythm”. Denise is number seven in the run, which, she says, gives her the typical characteristics of a middle child – competitive, attention-seeking – but “multiplied by about five million”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Typical middle child – ‘multiplied by five million’ … Denise Gough. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the Guardian Just before the icing-sugar afternoon, though, her ambition had reached rock bottom. “I did think that, if I didn’t get this part, I was going to bow out. I’d been out of work for a year, I had no money. And I was trying to do telly and getting rejected in the worst possible ways. If you were an architect, and someone said, ‘Sorry, but you’re not conventionally pretty enough’, you could probably sue them. But actresses get that all the time.” Gough had just got home from the audition when her agent phoned with the news that she had been chosen. She’s gone on to collect a bundle of five-star reviews. Indeed, her portrayal of addiction and recovery is so horrifically vivid that many members of the audience, especially recovering addicts, have assumed that she must be drawing on her own experiences.  “Yeah, I know,” she says. “People say that to me. But if I was playing a murderer, would you think: ‘Wow, she so totally must have killed somebody!’ I’ve never been to rehab, but of course I can relate to wanting to take the edge off. Throughout my life, I’ve used various things but now it’s social media, and sweets, and coffee. But, sure, working in this industry, I’ve seen people die. My friend killed himself because he couldn’t get sober. I’ve seen people connect their success and personality to some substance.” I hope one day to act with Meryl Streep and point proudly to the scar on her ear  There are many theatrical legends of actors who kept a bottle of whisky in the wings or secreted a hip-flask in their costumes, but Gough says that acting under the influence is now as frowned upon as drink-driving. “Actors often used to be pissed. I remember all of that, but now it’s considered disrespectful to the people you work with. Those actors were great in spite of drinking, rather than because of it, but I can see how your head tells you that the booze is letting you act. You might have one electric show with the drink but, if you actually did the proper work, you could have all electric shows.” In order to find the energy to play a physical wreck for more than two and a half hours eight times a week in the West End, Gough will paradoxically need to be as clean-living as possible. She is relying on “restorative yoga and hardcore Pilates”, and telephoned for advice Imelda Staunton, who performed a big-lunged musical role in Gypsy for most of last year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You have to look after yourself’ … Denise Gough in People, Places and Things, by Duncan Macmillan. Photograph: Johan Persson “We just talked about the athleticism of these parts,” Gough says. “You have to rest and look after yourself. She warned me about trying to keep fairly normal hours, not staying in bed until lunch and living sloth-like.”  Another measure of theatrical success is famous actors in the audience, who come round afterwards to meet the cast. Gough, though, is braced for almost any immortals in the stalls after an experience when she appeared in Marina Carr’s play By the Bog of Cats: “After a show, I kicked the green room door open and Meryl Streep was sitting crying on the sofa. She said: ‘Honey, you were wonderful!’, and I threw my arms around her, but her earring got caught in my jumper and I ripped it out of her ear. So we were crawling round on the floor, trying to find it. I hope one day to act with Meryl Streep and point proudly to the scar on her ear.”People, Places and Things runs at the Wyndham’s Theatre, London, from 15 March to 18 June