This Raging light is a classically beautiful contemporary novel. The book focuses on a lot more than love, unlike the typical YA books of today. Themes of friendship, family and independence shine throughout the book, creating compelling scenarios that kept me hooked throughout.For a book of its length Estelle Laure puts so many different plots into the same story, which could go so horribly wrong. However, Estelle Laure demonstrates her fabulous writing skills and ties most loose ends up, ensuring a satisfying read to any reader. Estelle Laure’s writing is poetic and beautiful, making the novel an amazing read. Lucille’s first person voice throughout the novel is authentic and doesn’t sound tacky. Her quirky perspective of the world and adventures helped to create a marvellous read.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At the beginning of the book I did not like Lucille’s character. She was whiny and unable to stand up for herself. Her dramatic outbursts were edging on becoming slightly annoying. However, throughout the book the reader witnesses Lucille’s character being shaped by the tough lessons she learns. Her experiences begin to wisen her up and by the end of the novel she is independent and strong. Her character development is amazing and is one of the aspects of the book that made me like it so much.The romance was the only part of the book I disliked. I felt Lucille’s interactions with Digby were awkward and forced. Digby cheats on both Lucille and his long-term girlfriend and honestly I question Lucille’s attraction to him. Of course, this is only my opinion and I’m sure a lot of readers love Digby and Lucille’s romance.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Regardless of the tense romance, I loved this read. As with any good YA contemporary novel, a reader can take away any number of lessons here depending on what they are going through/need to hear. For me, seeing the pure goodness people are shown capable of in the novel restored hope inside me, especially in a time of so much tragedy in the world. Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!