Arne Hendriks is so enthralled by fat that he is building his own “fatberg” – a huge congealed slab of fat, oil and grease. He currently has almost 50kg worth in a giant tank. Eventually he hopes to float it in the ocean.At a science conference in a Newcastle University lecture theatre, the Dutch artist explains his fascination with fat. “It is the iconic substance of our age. Fat is life’s battery and allows us to move away from direct energy sources. It allows us to regard ourselves as embodied energy.” But for cities around the world, fatbergs – made up of fats, oils and greases or FOGs – are a problem to be solved, not a substance to be celebrated. Last month on the streets of Malabon, just north of Manila, paddle boats replaced cars after typhoons Egay and Falcon were exacerbated by FOGs from restaurants and fast-food chains, clogging the sewers and submerging the streets. Nor is Manila’s sewer system the only one with hardening arteries. London, Cardiff, Melbourne, New York and Denver are all tackling subterranean fatbergs. Many cities around the world are at daily risk of of suffering a municipal coronary. And flooded streets are just one possible outcome. Two years ago a fatberg in a main sewer in Bristol resulted in a discharge of raw sewage into the River Trym, killing hundreds of eels, sticklebacks and bullheads. Fat is life’s battery and allows us to move away from direct energy sourcesArne Hendriks       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dutch artist Arne Hendriks, with colleague Mike Thompson, holds fat-raising events in his home city of Eindhoven to amass more material for the fatberg. Photograph: Hanneke WetzerThe fatberg created by Hendriks and colleague Mike Thompson is an impressive creature, but doesn’t look like it could take down an entire city. Two weeks later, as I descend the 25 rungs of a steel ladder into a London sewer beneath Whitehall Place, a stone’s throw from the National Liberal Club frequented by Gladstone, Asquith and Lloyd George, I come face to face with the beast in its natural environment.Atop the brown, rutted crust that spans the full width of the sewer sit flies, maggots, condoms, syringes, corks and cotton buds. It’s just thick enough to support the occasional rat skittering along the surface. As we step down and break the crust, into the liquid fat, oil, grease and sewage underneath, we sink into a thick, porridge-like gloop until it almost breaches the top of our thigh-high waders.This is the Westminster Fatberg: a glacially moving island that stretches about half a kilometre, downstream in the direction of the Thames and a similar distance toward Downing Street. To be honest, it doesn’t smell that bad – not unlike soil or compost – until my Thames Water guide, Gary Patterson, begins breaking it up with his shovel.  'If fat is like the mortar, wet wipes are the bricks'Becky Trotman, Thames Water This is what Patterson and his colleagues must resort to in their fight against fatbergs. Spades, chemicals and high-pressure hoses are the only effective tools in keeping sewers flowing, manually breaking down the fat into pieces small enough to pass through the screens at the sewage treatment works in east London. As they work, Patterson and his colleagues carry monitors that continually check for harmful levels of combustible gases.The Westminster Fatberg is as bad as Patterson has seen on this section of the system. Over our heads, the broadband internet cables attached to the 150-year old Victorian brickwork are thick enough to thwart rats from gnawing through. But fatbergs could dislodge them. If allowed to completely block a section of sewer, a fatberg could cause flooding and destroy streets, businesses and homes across London. The principal culprits include hotels, restaurants and takeaways pouring FOGs down their drains. But there’s also plenty of evidence here of household waste, including the evil of “flushable wipes”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A ‘flusher’, or trunk sewer technician, holds a fatberg. Many cities are finding legitimate uses for FOGs, including converting them into biodiesel fuel. Photograph: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images“If fat is like the mortar, wet wipes are the bricks in fatbergs,” says Becky Trotman of the Thames Water press office. Earlier this year, a fatberg the “weight of five Porsche 911s” that was bonded together by wet wipes caused £400,000 worth of damage to sewers below Chelsea. Another “the length of a Boeing 747” was discovered underneath Shepherd’s Bush the year before, while in 2013 in Kingston, Thames Water removed a 15-tonne fatberg “the size of a double decker bus”.So far, education is the primary weapon in cities’ arsenals. New York and Dallas have Cease the Grease programmes to teach residents and businesses about the dos and don’ts of discarding FOGs. In Newcastle, Northumbrian Water gives the same message a more upbeat spin with its Love Your Drain campaign and mascot, Dwaine Pipe. There are technological strategies, too. In Belfast, NI Water offers a funnel device so you can pour FOGs into an empty bottle. Students at Sheffield University, meanwhile, have invented the “fatberglar”: a device under the sink, seeded with specially designed bacteria to degrade FOGs. New York company Ecosicences is trying to interest municipalities in a small tablet that, when added to wastewater systems, can aerobically degrade organic waste.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Fatberg’ the size of a bus clogs London sewer - archive videoMany cities require every business that generates FOGs to install grease traps, to block the substances from reaching the sewer lines. Unfortunately, privatised utilities – like Thames Water in London – often have no right to inspect hotels and restaurants to make sure they’ve installed traps, or how they’re disposing of the FOGs they catch.“In the UK, water companies are privately owned and the regulation [of FOGS] is very relaxed in terms of effluent limits, equipment implementation and maintenance,” concedes Marta Perez, technical manager of British Water. The trade body is bringing together utilities, restaurant chains and academics to discuss FOGs and sewers at a conference in September at Cranfield University. One of the case studies the delegates will hear is that of Dublin, where there are fewer grey areas as Irish Water remains a state-owned utility. The city spends €1m a year maintaining its sewers, and in 2008 council introduced a FOG control-and-prevention programme, requiring food service establishments to be licensed. A compliance team carries out 8,000 inspections a year, while a FOG “risk map” enables Irish Water to be more targeted in its inspections and preventative maintenance.According to Tom Curran at University College Dublin, the council has reduced the number of sewer blockages from 1,000 per year down to just 50. Its last major fatberg blockage was five years ago.Nevertheless, FOGs inspection can be a greasy business. One inspector in Atlanta was jailed in 2011 for taking bribes from restaurants. Inspectors in China and throughout south-east Asia are also on the hunt for “gutter oil”, illicit cooking oil recycled from restaurant fryers, sewer drains and grease traps. Gutter oil is usual resold as a cheap cooking oil, but in 2012, the Chinese government warned pharmaceutical firms to check their suppliers, after claims that gutter oil was being used to make antibiotics. We have been roadkill in the government’s downsizing of its renewables programmeAndrew Mercer       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beckton sewage works is powered by the world’s first industrial-scale plant run on FOGs. Photograph: Neil Large/2OC LimitedOther cities, however, are finding more legitimate uses for FOGs. In San Francisco and Atlanta, they’re converted into biodiesel fuel, which is used to power school buses, city vehicles and machinery. And Thames Water, faced with an estimated cost of £1m every month to keep its 109,000km of sewers fatberg-free, has perhaps the most innovative plan of all.I saw their hopes firsthand. Following the Thames eight miles east of Westminster, beyond City Airport, will bring you to Beckton. The area here was marshland until the “Great Stink” of 1858, after which civil engineer Joseph Bazalgette built sewage works in Beckton to process the effluent from his new sewer network. The Beckton sewage works, managed by Thames Water, is now Europe’s largest – and right next door is the world’s first industrial-scale plant run on FOGs. Shiny silver pipes criss-cross the outside of the building, resembling pneumatic tubes. Inside the plant sits a monster: an 800-tonne, two-stroke, 19-megawatt diesel engine of the kind normally found in battleships.The plant, developed by green utility company 2OC in a 20-year, £200m deal with Thames Water, provides renewable power and heat to the Beckton sewage works. When fully operational this month, it will supply 130GWh of electricity a year – more than half of which comes from urban fat, 30 tonnes a day, collected from restaurants and drains then liquified. (The rest of the power plant’s fuel will come from tallow – animal fat – and waste vegetable oils; no virgin oils from field or plantation-grown crops are used.)It’s innovative, efficient and effective. Yet plans to build another seven plants around the UK have foundered for two reasons. First, a European directive on energy transmission and generation forced National Grid to leave its joint venture with 2OC. Second, although the Beckton plant has been accredited with a Renewables Obligation Certificate – the main support scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK – the Conservative government’s retreat from subsidising all but offshore wind projects means it won’t be replicated.“We have been roadkill in the government’s downsizing of its renewables programme,” says 2OC chief executive Andrew Mercer. “I used to know every energy minister, up to and including Ed Davey, but our dialogue with government is zero now. This plant is a showcase example of the efficient use of waste, and plants like this ought to be embedded in the country’s energy network, not left to entrepreneurs to finance.”Meanwhile, the fatbergs under London continue to metastasize. “For many cities, it’s a case of out of sight, out of mind,” says University College Dublin’s Tom Curran. “But with increasing urban populations around the world, the problem of fatbergs is only going to grow.”Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion