Superhero origins story Deadpool retained the top spot at the US box office this weekend, with a second-week take of $55m (£38.8m).Deadpool review – Ryan Reynolds' pansexual superhero is needy, neurotic and very entertaining Tim Miller’s film – which last weekend achieved the biggest box office debut for an R-rated film, after pulling in $132m in North America – now has its sights set on further landmarks. The current top R-rated film in the US and Canada is Mel Gibson’s 2004 The Passion of the Christ, with $370m; the best global mark is held by the Wachowski’s 2003 sci-fi sequel The Matrix Reloaded, with $742m. Deadpool has made $235m in North America and $491m worldwide in two weeks.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch the Guardian Film Show’s Deadpool review – videoMiller’s film has been particularly popular in Russia, where it recently broke Star Wars: The Force Awakens’ all-time box office opening record, and South Korea, where it was seen by more than one million people this weekend. The movie’s sex scenes and foul language have caught the attention of censors in more conservative territories . It was denied release in China, and in India one fan has launched a petition complaining that the film has been ruined by the use of bleeps to cover up swear words.“I couldn’t understand half of the movie,” wrote Vignesh Vellore in a post on Change.org which has received backing from more than 10,000 supporters. “The censor board had removed half the dialogue because they thought it was vulgar. This is ridiculous … We cannot let them treat us like five year olds.”Risen review – biblical CSI: Jerusalem loses faith in its premise The top new film at the US box office last weekend was the faith-based drama Risen. It stars Joseph Fiennes as a powerful Roman tribune who is charged with investigating rumours that the Jewish messiah, Jesus, has risen from the dead. Directed by Kevin Reynolds, Risen took $11.8m on debut, to land in third place. It has benefited from semi-decent reviews, with a 58% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, and a marketing campaign aimed at North American churches.Also debuting in the top five was the critically acclaimed 17th-century chiller The Witch, which looks likely to be among the best-reviewed horror titles of 2016. The low-budget debut film by Robert Eggers, which won the best director prize in the US dramatic category at last year’s Sundance film festival and boasts an 88% “fresh” rating on Rotten Tomatoes, landed in fourth with $8.7m. It’s the tale of a puritan family living in isolation on the edge of a large New England forest, who come into contact with what appear to be supernatural forces.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for Kung Fu Panda 3The animated sequel Kung Fu Panda 3 held second place with $12.5m in its fourth week on release, for a total of $177m. The comedy How to Be Single rounded out the top five with a second-week haul of $8.7m, for a total of $31.8m.The only other new film to make the top 10 this weekend was the period drama Race, about the sprinter Jesse Owens’ quadruple gold medal-win at the Nazi-controlled 1936 Berlin Olympics. Stephan James stars as the runner, with the cast also including Jason Sudeikis, Jeremy Irons, William Hurt and Game of Thrones’ Carice van Houten (as the infamous Nazi film-maker Leni Riefenstahl). Stephen Hopkins’ film took $8.2m on debut in sixth place.