A few years ago I came across a magazine article, a conversation between two painters about the creative process. It was somehow different from other profiles of artists. The two men – Euan Macleod and Steve Lopes – had a shared understanding of what it is to paint, and spoke in both practical and philosophical terms about the process.I read it over and over, wishing there were interviews like this with Australian writers. Not the usual sort of book-spruiking author profile, but real conversations about the intricacies of how they work. A little later my tiny online subscriber magazine, The Writer’s Room Interviews, was born.The magazine’s lifespan, I later realised, almost exactly overlaid the gestation period for my fifth novel, The Natural Way of Things. And when I read the interviews again now, I can pinpoint precise lessons I took from each of them into writing my book.When Amanda Lohrey spoke of a book needing “messages from another realm”, for example, a fire was lit deep in my brain. “There’s the literal surface of life,” Lohrey said, “and then there’s that oceanic meaning underneath … any narrative that doesn’t have a few messages from that realm is, for me, deficient. Too mastered, too known, too literal.” This conversation with Lohrey was a turning point in my writing life, leading me towards the experimentation that liberated my novel in progress from the bleak realist voice I was struggling with then, opening up new story possibilities: dreamier, stranger, more metaphorical; darker but more beautiful.Charlotte Wood's The Natural Way of Things wins $50,000 Stella prize Joan London changed me, too. I’ve always placed enormous faith in a good work ethic; a belief that in the absence of the natural talent or intelligence I long for, sheer bloody-minded labour would see me through. And it can, but it’s exhausting, and often dispiritingly punitive. London told of how an illness provoked her into giving up on “striving and ambition and the literary world”. She now had a much deeper trust that her work would come if she let go of desire, she told me. “I’ve got lighter and lighter … Kipling wrote, ‘When your Daemon is in charge, do not try to think consciously. Drift, wait, and obey.’ That’s what I think, too. The more you let go the better.” I began developing a new trust in my subconscious, in allowing my work to come, rather than wrangling and fighting and forcing it out.The men I spoke to often seemed blissfully unconcerned about other people’s opinions of them or their work. For me, often neurotically fearful of judgment, this was incredibly invigorating. Craig Sherborne scoffed at writers’ fears of self-exposure, for example: “I thought that’s what writers did! I’m not squeamish about exposing myself or exposing others, providing I do so knowing what I’m talking about, and that I do so with style.” Language and aesthetics, to Sherborne, are everything. “I like the art-for-art’s-sake concept ... it’s not writing’s job to make things happen; its job is to exist as an aesthetic idea as beautifully and intelligently as it can.”When I was struggling with the question of how much darkness my novel’s reader might accept before turning away, I spoke with Malcolm Knox. Was he conscious of calibrating the darkness in a book like Jamaica, with its misogynist characters and its savage relationships? Nup, was the short answer. “I’m not conscious of it at all. You only find out later [laughs] Whenever I start thinking about what ‘works’, especially commercially … everything just shuts down.” It was completely liberating to take Knox’s approach and ignore those fears. (I also loved Knox’s scathing disdain for the “sheep-like”, “authority-loving instinct” in devotion to literary prizes as any objective guide to quality.)My three-year masterclass gave me too many other precious lessons to detail here. Lloyd Jones’s provocation that “a writer’s fidelity should not be to the eye”, for instance, or Margo Lanagan’s way of making her fantastical worlds somehow completely and instantly real. There was Kim Scott’s love of the momentum brought about by a good working rhythm, and James Bradley’s discussion of how voice and structure, rather than plot alone, can create narrative tension, and many other epiphanies, just as crucial and complex, from other writers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Allen & UnwinThe last interview I did was with Christos Tsiolkas, just before my novel was released. I asked him whether he’d ever felt isolated by the wild success of The Slap. Every artist should have a chance to read his response, for its humility and his honesty about the self-doubt, the narcissism and “greed for more” that can descend on a writer – and destroy you – if you let it.Looking back, I’m almost shocked at the privilege I was allowed by these people, and how generous they were in sharing such a private, delicate thing – their imaginations – with me. I’ll be learning from this collection again and again, long after I’m too old to write.The Writer’s Room: Conversations about writing, by Charlotte Wood is published by Allen & Unwin. 