Sport Relief 20167pm, BBC1The climax of this year’s appeal, from the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in London, where Gary Lineker, Davina McCall, Greg James and Alesha Dixon have the impossible task of turning worthy charity work into watchable telly. Watch out for Andrew Flintoff and Steve Redgrave skippering teams in a series of sporting challenges, a Little Britain revival with an unlikely cast, and a Luther skit where Lenny Henry, Rio Ferdinand, David Haye and more join Idris Elba. Plus Jo Brand and Eddie Izzard on their epic individual efforts. Jack SealeUnreported World7.30pm, Channel 4Welcome return of one of the shamefully few non-news programmes on British television attempting grown-up foreign affairs journalism. Marcel Theroux reports from Malaysia, the politics of which have taken an ominously theocratic turn. Among the more prominent victims of this are transgender people, who have been described by Malaysia’s prime minister Najib Razak as enemies of Islam. Theroux meets both the oppressed and – in the shape of Malaysia’s religious police – the oppressors. Andrew MuellerLand Of Hope and Glory – British Country Life9pm, BBC2Final instalment of Jane Treays’s documentary series about Country Life magazine. “If you own the land, does it mean you own the landscape?” asks one participant tonight as the film-maker ponders our relationship with nature. Another reader tuts about the “flogging of vulgar wares” in the current incarnation’s pages. And there’s an interview with a punk-turned-gamekeeper who once supported XTC. Plus the gentleman of the year competition is decided. Julia RaesideArena: Loretta Lynn – Still A Mountain Girl9pm, BBC4“If you write about what’s happening, it don’t hurt as bad …” The straight-talking country legend, telling it like it is, in this superb profile. Among the highlights: Loretta hanging out with her screen-counterpart Sissy Spacek; Willie Nelson quoting Seneca to illustrate country’s approach to suffering; and Lynn’s granddaughter Emmy Rose, a performer in her own right, happily acknowledging that she’s the “coal miner’s daughter’s daughter’s daughter!” Ali CatterallBest Walks With A View With Julia Bradbury8pm, ITVWhy bother going for a walk when you can watch Julia Bradbury do it instead? She’s off on a stroll across the South Downs, taking in white cliffs, Beachy Head and the seaside tea-room at Birling Gap. The views are indeed beautiful and there are chats with local characters and a good dose of sunshine along the way. Bradbury is so classy she can say the phrase “explore Wigden’s Bottom” with a straight face, even if she does smirk when describing the Seven Sisters’ dips as “lovely derrieres”. Hannah VerdierStan Lee’s Lucky Man9pm, Sky1Plausibility issues have abounded with this series, though given its premise, in which James Nesbitt’s Harry has the ability to manipulate luck to his advantage, that’s perhaps to be expected. And in any case, doesn’t every dumb procedural dole out a mandatory and ridiculously large portion of good fortune to its heroes? Tonight, Harry manages to get close to Golding before he himself is endangered, Anna and the prison governor get pally, while Boyd shows his true stripes as a bounder by sitting on some vital evidence. David StubbsAirport Security: Colombia9pm, National GeographicOne for only the most fervent of police doc fans, this rather alarmist new series follows police at Bogotá’s El Dorado airport, focusing almost entirely on their anti-narcotics operation. From a briefcase with a secret compartment to a dental chair full of contraband, the smuggling kingpins have plenty of tricks to get their wares out of the country. However, as triumphant cries of “cocaina!” ring out, there’s something unsettling about watching those further down the food chain realise the gravity of their crimes. Hannah J DaviesFilm ChoiceSpooks: The Greater Good, (Bharat Nalluri, 2015), 4.15pm, 8pm, Sky Movies PremiereThe BBC’s brilliant, long-running spy series gets a passable big screen makeover. Kit “Game Of Thrones” Harington is a far grungier MI5 agent than TV’s smooth Rupert Penry-Jones, but he’s just as capable in the running/fighting stakes, and Peter Firth is on hand as spookmaster Harry Pearce to winkle out the mole in the surveillance machine. A brisk and efficient thriller. Paul HowlettThe Thing From Another World, (Christian Nyby, 1951), 2.20am, Movies4MenStranded at a frozen polar research station, a group of scientists discover a spaceship and are gradually whittled down by the malignant alien within. Where John Carpenter’s remake, The Thing, gave us the beast in all its horror, this Howard Hawks production keeps it lurking round the corner, building terminal levels of suspense and dread. These people are brave and resourceful, but that just ain’t enough. Classic sci-fi. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportT20 World Cup Cricket: Australia v New ZealandA tasty-looking double bill with South Africa v England to follow. 9am, Sky Sports 2Racing: The Cheltenham FestivalThe final day including the Gold Cup at 3.30pm. 12.35pm, Channel 4Championship Football: Middlesbrough v Hull CityA promotion six-pointer. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Athletics: World Indoor ChampionshipsCoverage from Oregon. 12.30am, BBC2