It is hard to think of a more niche parody song than the one that received its first airing on John Peel’s Radio 1 show on a June evening in 1985. But for those who got the reference, Sharon Signs to Cherry Red by the Kamikaze Pilots was almost uncomfortably uncanny. With its bedroom production and accompaniment of tentatively strummed guitar, there was surely only one label that could have put out a record like this. The label that gave us the wistful confessions of Tracey Thorn’s A Distant Shore and the seaside stillness of Jane’s It’s a Fine Day had, by the mid-80s, become synonymous with a weedy strain of indie teen-angst. “We talked and talked for hours and hours as we stood on the garden path,” sang the protagonist of Sharon Signs to Cherry Red, “I promised to show you my poetry / And you promised not to laugh / I didn’t see you for two whole days / And I wished that I was dead / So I put my songs on a blank cassette / And sent them to Cherry Red.”It was funny because it seemed to be true. There were hundreds of Sharons up and down the country. Spread across two CDs and 45 tracks, a new Cherry Red anthology named after the parody song is the most extensive attempt to document that phenomenon. Most of the artists here failed to trouble the public consciousness. Certainly not the Avocados, who could only maintain a stable line-up long enough to lay down the lovelorn what-ifs of I Never Knew. Nor Grab Grab the Haddock, who recorded the dewy dissection of discord, Nothing You Say. Then, of course, you had Trixie’s Big Red Motorbike, whose magnificent A Splash of Red remains the go-to record for anyone seeking to prove the truism about necessity and invention. Melanie Litten recorded her vocals for the song in her brother Mark’s Isle of Wight bedroom. Only 100 copies were pressed. The bass drum you can hear alongside Mark’s choppy funk guitar is a mattress forcefully thumped with a piece of wood. It’s hard to imagine more salubrious circumstances yielding a better result.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharon Signs To Cherry Red – Independent Women 1979-1985.By grouping all these songs together, Sharon Signs to Cherry Red offers a different version of the history of independent music – and, in doing so, highlights the degree to which the anti-rock, anti-virtuosity aesthetic of indiepop was shaped by the sudden involvement of female musicians. For Jill Bryson of Strawberry Switchblade, represented here by the pensive Seaside (Go Away), the idea of recording and releasing, even a few years previously, had been barely more plausible than that of becoming an astronaut. “You grew up struggling to imagine what it would really mean to be a woman in a band, because there quite simply weren’t any role models. The only sort of girl band I was aware of was the Runaways – and that was just some guy’s idea of a girl band rather than an actual girl band.” Gina Hartman, who played alongside Alice Fox, Jane Fox and Thorn in Marine Girls, recalls an “altogether different energy” being put out by Britain’s foremost all-female punk bands, the Slits and the Raincoats. “Even though they were on proper labels, they sounded like they were finding their feet as they were going along. That totally opened it up to us because it didn’t seem to be something that boys did.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What the boys had been doing prior to that point was summed up by Gina Birch of the Raincoats in an interview with US music journalist Greil Marcus. “The basic theme in rock’n’roll is what goes on between men and women,” she told him. “And it’s based on the exclusion of women and the ghettoisation of blacks. Which is why we want to put a bit of distance between what we do and the rock’n’roll tradition.” If subsequent indie bands – at least until the advent of Riot grrrl – didn’t necessarily observe such an explicit agenda, they could at least register that the Raincoats’ truth was startlingly different from the truths expressed in 99% of love songs. As Simon Reynolds and Joy Press wrote in their 1996 book The Sex Revolts: “The Raincoats pulled the rug from under rock’s heroic postures by dealing with banal, unromantic domains of female experience, like motherhood (Baby Song) or being followed by a stalker (Life on the Line). Shouting Out Loud, the opening song on [1981’s] Odyshape, defines a woman as ‘a man with fears’.”Along with Young Marble Giants – whose shy, rainy-afternoon musings would disperse their DNA into records by Stereolab and the xx – the Raincoats and the Slits formed an ad hoc holy trinity that seemed to inform the spirit of independent music throughout and beyond the ensuing decade. If a fourth band deserves to be added to that list, it surely has to be the scandalously overlooked Dolly Mixture. In their way, that trio were every bit as radical and forward-looking as their more celebrated peers, taking pure pop influences that were regarded as terminally uncool by the music press and assembling their look from jumble sales a good two years before Orange Juice and Josef K were doing it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   All-female punk band the Slits. Photograph: Ray Stevenson/RexMore importantly, their songs were astonishingly good. Will He Kiss Me Tonight sounds like the Ronettes seizing the means of control and coming up with something just as good and truer to life than any Brill Building A-lister could have provided. Looking for a song to get her career back on track, former child star Lena Zavaroni even covered it. “I guess I provided the title for that one,” remembers bassist and singer Debsey Wykes. We were rehearsing and I was due to go on a date that evening. I said to them: ‘I wonder if he’ll kiss me tonight.’ While I was out, they wrote that song.”“Dolly Mixture were a good example of a band that did everything with the purest of intentions, but still incurred a certain amount of suspicion,” says Michael Robson, who conceived and compiled the Sharon Signs to Cherry Red CD. “Some of that suspicion came from papers like NME and Melody Maker – but it also came from other bands. I thought it was a shame, because what I liked about them was a sort of lyrical authenticity. It was like overhearing conversations between girls you knew at school. They could never have come from a male perspective.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dolly Mixture: ‘It was like overhearing conversations between girls you knew at school. They could never have come from a male perspective.’ Photograph: Cherry RedThe problem that faced so many female indie acts seeking to make the transition from indie hobbyists to fully fledged recording artists was that, without a major label willing to deal with them sympathetically, they didn’t stand a chance. Chrysalis signed Dolly Mixture in 1980 and made them record a version of the Shirelles’ Baby It’s You as their debut single. When they appeared on Top of the Pops two years later, singing backing vocals on Happy Talk by their friend and fan Captain Sensible, it was a pyrrhic victory. By contrast, Thorn, who formed Everything But the Girl with Ben Watt, found a better home at Warner’s boutique imprint Blanco Y Negro and took a more sophisticated sound into the top 30 with Each and Every One.Watching Everything But the Girl find success, Strawberry Switchblade clearly felt emboldened enough to follow suit. In January 1985, they eclipsed the success of their Glasgow chums Orange Juice and Aztec Camera with an actual top five hit, Since Yesterday. But even before the record hit the shops, Bryson remembers the entire adventure feeling “unsustainable”. The group’s singer, Rose McDowall, had a five-year-old daughter and Bryson was agoraphobic. “Suddenly, we were in two separate flats in a tower block in the suburbs of north London. Rose didn’t have any childcare, and I was scared of leaving the house. The week we did Top of the Pops, we were on with Barbara Dickson and Elaine Paige. One of them was really tall and the other was tiny. It was like meeting a weird parallel-universe version of ourselves.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Poor old Strawberry Switchblade had no way of knowing it – none of the early-80s indie vanguard did – but their work hadn’t fallen on deaf ears. If their eponymous debut album had come out a year later, it would have coincided with an uprising of bands who seemed to have taken their musical and sartorial cues from the groups on Sharon Signs to Cherry Red. For Amelia Fletcher, whose group Talulah Gosh were part of the “C86” generation of indiepop groups reacting against the machismo of rock, artists such as Trixie’s Big Red Motorbike and Strawberry Switchblade signposted a way into music that, a decade earlier, would have been unthinkable. “It was the first time I realised that it was possible to be in a band that wasn’t famous. Listening to Marine Girls, it felt inconceivable that you could ever do anything that good, but equally they were a good place to start if you were going to have a go.”The de facto uniform of the bands that rose to prominence alongside Talulah Gosh in the wake of NME’s C86 compilation – Shop Assistants, the Primitives, the Sea Urchins – was the unisex anorak, accompanied by similarly non-gender-specific haircuts. This was a largely asexual movement. Singing about love was OK. Singing about sex was crass and rockist – and standout songs such as Talulah Gosh’s Talulah Gosh and My Bloody Valentine’s Sunny Sundae Smile observed that distinction. Again, these were preconditions that seemed to take root a few years previously. The videocassette version of Cherry Red’s Pillows & Prayers compilation was interspersed with old adverts and postwar evocations of childhood; a similar return to innocence was evoked by the shortbread-tin imagery of Postcard Records’ sleeve art. In the Smiths records, sex was referenced, but in terms so problematic that it seemed to explain Morrissey’s ongoing celibacy.It wasn’t that everyone had stopped having sex. It was about eschewing a vernacular that seemed ugly, predatory and anachronistic. In the indiepop bubble, men stopped singing about what they wanted to do to women. By a strange unspoken consensus, the vernacular of girl groups, early Motown and teen-pop became the language of indiepop. “In the music press, you had people slagging off bands like us,” remembers Fletcher, “because we sounded a bit limp-wristed and feeble to them, but to me it wasn’t a problem. It sounded like sunny days and all the feelings that I had.”Even for bands such as My Bloody Valentine, who wanted to swap tweeness for sheer voltage, the challenge was to do a version of rock’n’roll that couldn’t, even for a second, be seen as a pure extension of male sexuality. In The Sex Revolts, Reynolds and Press describe the group’s “great innovation, ‘glide guitar’ [as] a self-devised technique that uses the guitar’s tremolo arm to unleash a droning swarm of distortion … [Their] presence is definitely androgynous: it’s hard to distinguish which songs are sung by Bilinda Butcher or Kevin Shields.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Few people in their mid-30s have any desire to be reminded of what they were doing in their late teens, and in 1999, Thorn (who politely declined an interview request for this piece) was no different. In her 2013 autobiography, Bedsit Disco Queen, she recalled her surprise when she appeared on Later … with Jools Holland on the same week as Courtney Love. “Just before the cameras started rolling, she looked across to our stage, put down her guitar and strode across the empty central area to crouch down next to me where I was sitting. ‘Hey,’ she said, ‘you’re Tracey from the Marine Girls! Kurt and I were both huge fans of your band.’” Indeed, when Cobain’s journals were published, Marine Girls appeared on a list of his all-time favourite records, along with the Raincoats’ first album and Young Marble Giants’ Colossal Youth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tracey Thorn of Everything But the Girl, in concert in 1983. Photograph: Leon Morris/Getty ImagesIn 1992, Cobain had even travelled to the Rough Trade Shop in west London, to replace his worn-out copy of the first Raincoats album. Once he had bought the album, he was duly dispatched by shop staff to a nearby antique shop, where one the group’s founding members, Ana da Silva, was working. In the liner notes of Nirvana’s Incesticide LP, he recalled that meeting and the package he received a few weeks later, as a result of meeting Da Silva: “It made me happier than playing in front of thousands of people each night, rock-god idolisation from fans, music industry plankton kissing my ass and the million dollars I made last year.”The encounter seems to have made as much of a mark on Da Silva as it did on Cobain. “For me, that’s the biggest reward from being in a band,” she says. “I wanted to inspire people the way I was inspired. Not just young women, but boys as well. When Kurt walked into that shop, that was the moment I realised it had happened.” Fletcher elaborates further, “Is it a vindication? Maybe. A little bit. We weren’t trying to change anything. We were just joining in. But if enough people join in, of course, you are changing things.”• Sharon Signs To Cherry Red is out now on Cherry Red