In an out-of-the-way room in the grounds of the Shanghai Conservatory of Music, I came across a memorial: photographs, papers and objects in memory of the 20 people – professors, spouses and students – who lost their lives during the 10-year Chinese Cultural Revolution. This catastrophe officially ended in 1976, the year of Mao Zedong’s death. When, a short time later, violinist Isaac Stern arrived for a series of high-profile concerts, he found that Shanghai – home for nearly a century to one of the first orchestras in Asia – could not find him one playable piano. The instruments, including an estimated 500 owned by the Shanghai Conservatory, had been destroyed.The Cultural Revolution: all you need to know about China's political convulsion Music – the ways people listen, the things they are prevented from hearing and the compositional forms – holds up an unusual mirror to China and its future: today it is the largest consumer and maker of pianos, producing a staggering 80% of the world’s supply.The story of western classical music’s trajectory in China summons a vast canvas, featuring priests, revolutionaries, heroes and emperors. When the Jesuit missionary Matteo Ricci journeyed to the Forbidden City in 1601 bearing a clavichord for the emperor, the Imperial Court dispatched four eunuchs, one of whom was 72 years old, for keyboard lessons. The quartet paid their respects to the instrument, beseeching the clavichord to be patient with them “if they were slow to learn this art, hitherto unknown to them”. More than a century later, the Qianlong emperor maintained an ensemble of 18 European-trained court musicians, and a multivolume encyclopedia of western music theory commissioned by his grandfather.The grandeur of the Qing court was not to last. By the mid-19th century, the country, devastated by the opium wars, was in free fall. Missionaries were given unprecedented – and to the Chinese, humiliating – access to the interior. Impoverished families relied on the charity of Christian schools where, untethered from the traditional curriculum, their children studied the lives of European composers, learned hymns and played the piano, violin and clarinet.The hunger for reform became unstoppable, and the ensuing “new culture” movement brought together artists and intellectuals who called for a sea change in the way China imagined selfhood and nationhood. Western music, unhindered by the need for translation, flowered in its wake. Intellectuals, in the words of prominent scholar Wu Zhihui, needed to “flush all classical Chinese literature down the toilet”.The piano radiated western modernity – a factory-produced instrument consisting of more than 200 engineered carbon steel wires – and was used by a prosperous middle class in the service of culture and self-expression. But piano music posed a musical question: what happens to us when we listen to something new? Because western classical music – its tuning, compositional forms and history – was a completely different language. One of the first smear campaigns targeted the music of Debussy, considered the dirt left behind by western imperialism For centuries, the essential qualities of Chinese music hinged on the rising, falling, winding and turning of sound and non-sound elements. Non-sound, according to linguist and musicologist Adrian Tien, includes silence, interruptions and rests, as well as the ebb of sounds as they fall towards nothingness. Non-sound was as integral to music as the white space in a work of calligraphy. Tien observes that it was “expected of even the introductory beholder to hear beyond the sonic form”. Listening was not primarily about the ear: it required a freeing of the mind so that other non-sensory stimuli could be perceived.Romantic music brought a different auditory experience. With its lavish orchestras and stirring motives of exposition, development and recapitulation – of transformation – it seemed capable of expressing the potentiality of modern Chinese selves. As Sheila Melvin and Jindong Cai movingly chronicle in Beethoven in China, the composer was the guiding spirit for young men and women, driven by a love of their country, who were determined to “seize fate by the throat” and build a China of social equality and dignity.The violence unleashed by the start of the Cultural Revolution in 1966 was more about Mao than about culture. But culture, and its ability to redraw the self, was the scapegoat. Mao’s words would be used against countless individuals: “All literature and art belong to definite classes and are geared to definite political lines. There is in fact no such thing as art for art’s sake.”One of the first ideological smear campaigns targeted the music of Debussy, considered “the dirt left behind” by western imperialism, and singled out He Luting, president of the Shanghai Conservatory, for defending the French composer’s music. He Luting’s stubborn refusal, in the face of mental and physical torture, to confess to spiritual and political crimes was an act of unimaginable heroic resistance. In his history of 20th-century music The Rest Is Noise, Alex Ross observes: “No musician ever made a braver stand against totalitarianism.”Conductor of the Shanghai Symphony Lu Hongen was also arrested. Days before his execution, he told his cell mate: “Visit Austria, the home of music. Go to Beethoven’s tomb and lay a bouquet of flowers. And tell Beethoven that his disciple is in China.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Chairman Mao Zedong poster from the Cultural Revolution. Photograph: EPAThe question of whether art should be made for art’s sake or to serve the people is as old as the human desire to create. A piece of music has many meanings, political or otherwise – there is no one, absolute interpretation. The many suicides at the Shanghai Conservatory reflected profound despair and perhaps an inability, or a refusal, to accept the Cultural Revolution’s world of absolutes, a world that even today presents a serious threat to artists, lawyers and human rights campaigners.When it comes to ways of listening, the Chinese have long been open to other cultures and to change – not in a revolutionary way, but through a process that builds on its long musical tradition. Indeed, China’s two most emblematic and beloved traditional instruments, the pipa and the erhu, originated elsewhere, in the Middle East and on the steppes of Central Asia respectively.A century ago, the heroic possibilities of Romanticism shaped a generation of Chinese thinkers. What music will win the country’s attention next? My vote is for JS Bach, who, in China, is still overshadowed by Beethoven. The pianist Zhu Xiao-Mei, after living through the Cultural Revolution, wrote that the staggering polyphony of Bach’s Goldberg Variations “had all one needed to live”. Her conclusion, that in Bach as in everything “there is no single truth”, echoed that of Canadian pianist Glenn Gould, who marvelled at the way “each individual voice leads a life of his own”.The act of creation was, for Bach, acts of counterpoint: each voice stands alone yet sounds in combination with another; there is solitude and contact; and mysteriously, no voice is subsumed by another.• Do Not Say We Have Nothing by Madeleine Thien is published by Granta.