Poets don’t often pop up at infrastructure conferences. But a few months ago, at a debate for infrastructure developers and policymakers, I began my remarks by quoting William Wordsworth. Supporting the transition to a low carbon economy is a priority for Green Alliance, the think tank where I work. We’re part of that breed of environmentalist that reckons reducing the carbon in our energy system will require new infrastructure: pylons, turbines and railways, rather than roads and runways. But we’re democrats too, and believe there are real problems with the way the public is excluded from infrastructure planning at present.At this particular debate, Lord Adonis, the shadow infrastructure minister, was the keynote speaker. Green Alliance was launching a report on ‘Opening up infrastructure planning’, and it was my job as a fellow panel member to convince him of our argument. I knew it would be a tough sell. Even at a time when electoral majorities look like a thing of the past, many politicians assume that once in office, they have an unrestricted mandate to take decisions on the public’s behalf; decisions that might have long term impacts on communities and landscapes.So to grab Lord Adonis’ attention, I unleashed Wordsworth. I had found the poem a few days earlier on the British Library’s website. This explained that, in 1844, Wordsworth had sent a letter to William Gladstone, protesting against the proposed extension of the Lake District railway line from Kendal to Windermere. He enclosed some verses that began, “Is there no nook of English ground secure from rash assault?” And he didn’t seem optimistic, ending the poem:Plead for thy peace thou beautiful romance Of nature; and, if human hearts be dead, Speak, passing winds; ye torrents, with your strong And constant voice, protest against the wrong!Despite Wordsworth’s campaigning efforts, the railway opened three years later. But the poem stands as a good, if unusual, example of government interaction with expertise from the humanities. In this case, the poem eloquently demonstrates how the values held by different sections of the public can lead them to different conclusions to those reached by the government of the day. More than 170 years on, I found myself using the same poem as part of an argument for better public engagement in infrastructure planning. Of course, lots has changed since the nineteenth century, when infrastructure developers didn’t have to worry about environmental impact statements or public consultations. But decision making is still very top down, and communication with the public is often based on the misguided assumption that simply handing out information will lead the public to agree with you.The poem piqued Lord Adonis’s interest, and he ended up staying on for the full hour and a half of the debate. He also pointed out my mistake in saying Gladstone had been Prime Minister in 1844; he was in fact then the President of the Board of Trade. Our exchange left me wondering why, in this era of evidence-based policy, we don’t make more use of insights and expertise from the humanities to bolster our case? How can humanities-based arguments gain more traction in the policy world, without losing their richness? Insights from the humanities are especially useful for conversations about values and purposes. Why bother to save the planet? What’s worth saving? But perhaps the greatest gifts the humanities offer are linked to process, more than content. I like to think there are three interacting practices across the humanities that are particularly valuable. Each begins with the letter ‘c’: criticism, creativity and curating.Criticism involves exploring the meaning of terms, demanding clarity and exposing deception or obfuscation. Creativity is the emergence of novel ideas, connections, objects and arguments. And curating ensures the longevity of the best products of that creativity, making sense of them for new generations, and giving them fresh life.Perhaps it was the sheer novelty of a few lines of poetry amidst the dry talk of strategic national plans that had such a positive effect at our event. But I think it was more than that. Wordsworth’s creative outburst, curated by the British Library, provided me with an argument that still had real potency in today’s political landscape. The poem gave the audience a richer sense of why someone might oppose a particular decision. It offered a window into a different worldview. Such windows are essential, because clashing worldviews often lie at the heart of infrastructure, energy and environmental controversies. If a poem can encourage policymakers to be just a little more humble about their own values and assumptions, perhaps it can sometimes be as powerful and persuasive as the painstakingly researched evidence in a journal article or policy report.Amy Mount is a senior policy adviser at the think tank Green Alliance. On twitter, she is @ASmallAMount. This article is based on a talk she gave at the Centre for Science and Policy’s 2015 annual conference, which took as its theme ‘How can government make better use of expertise and evidence from the humanities?’