George Osborne has repeated his controversial claim that the UK’s tax deal with Google is a “major success” despite a widespread backlash against the £130m agreement for being too lenient.The chancellor was criticised after hailing the deal as a victory for HM Revenue & Customs over the weekend, with Labour claiming it amounted to an effective tax rate of around 3% – compared with the corporation tax rate of 20%.No 10 repeatedly refused to echo Osborne’s language, saying merely that it was a “positive step” and a “good deal”, while stressing there was further to go on clamping down on tax avoidance.Rupert Murdoch is no powerless taxpayer against Google But the chancellor has now given a broader defence of his approach, saying it was indeed a success that Google had gone from paying no tax to paying tax.His comments suggest he believes that Google is now paying the correct amount in accordance with its profit made on economic activity in the UK.He told Sky News: “My only interest, as the country’s chancellor of the exchequer, is to get the best deal for Britain – to bring the jobs here, the businesses here and to make sure that taxes are paid here. “When I became the chancellor, Google paid no tax. Now Google is paying tax and I have introduced a new thing called a diverted profits tax to make sure they pay tax in the future. I regard that as a major success. “Is there more to do? Clearly there is. We’ve got to make sure the international rules catch up and we are leading that effort. “But ultimately the solution to all of this is to make sure we have got more British companies out there that are great successes in areas like tech.”However, critics of the deal have already reported it to the European commission, asking the chief tax official to investigate whether Google got unduly lenient treatment.The SNP has already written to Margrethe Vestager, the competition commissioner, calling for a European investigation, and Labour is expected to make a similar complaint.Vestager, the tax commissioner, has said that so-called “sweetheart deals” between member states and companies are unfair and could amount to illegal state aid. Asked on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme about the government’s £130m deal with Google on back taxes, Vestager said: “That’s way too early to say because I don’t know the details of the deal.”Asked whether she would investigate, Vestager said: “If we find that there is something to be concerned about, if someone writes to us and says: ‘Maybe this is not as it should be’, then we will take a look.”She added: “We should be in a union where everyone has a fair chance of making it. If you are in a small innovative company … the bigger ones shouldn’t close the market and disable your opportunity to find customers.” Vestager’s remarks were echoed by Pierre Moscovici, Europe’s most senior tax policy official, at a press conference in Brussels on Thursday. “The commission will investigate the UK deal with Google if the need arises. However, the commission is clear that all companies must pay their fair share of taxes where they earn their profits.”EU ready to scrutinise UK Google tax deal in avoidance crackdown Moscovici, a former French finance minister, was speaking to journalists as he launched a wide-ranging plan aimed at tackling corporate tax avoidance and sweetheart deals cooked up between companies and “avoidance-friendly” EU governments.Vestager and Moscovici’s remarks will add to the mounting pressure on David Cameron, whose government has been accused of being too close to Google.The former cabinet minister Vince Cable, Margaret Hodge, the former public accounts committee chair, and the media mogul Rupert Murdoch voiced concerns on Wednesday that Cameron and Osborne had allowed the technology giant to hold too much sway. Separately, it emerged that Google executives and UK tax officials are to face a grilling from MPs within weeks after they agreed to appear before the Commons public accounts committee to discuss their controversial tax settlement.Representatives from the US internet company and HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) are due to give evidence in a hearing on 11 February, the committee confirmed.Google was given an extremely rough time by the committee in 2013 when Hodge, the former chair, subverted its company slogan, “don’t be evil”, claiming its tax strategies meant: “You do do evil.” The committee is now chaired by Labour MP Meg Hillier.Tax authorities in Italy could also formally notify Google on Thursday that it is being investigated for allegedly avoiding €300m (£228) in taxes over five years from 2008, La Repubblica reported.