Kathryn Hunter, 58, was born in New York to Greek parents but raised in Britain. During her studies at Rada she suffered life-changing injuries in a car crash. She went on to form a long relationship with the theatre company Complicite (she is married to fellow Complicite alumnus Marcello Magni). She has worked with the RSC, National Theatre and Peter Brook, and has played King Lear and Richard III. Hunter is currently playing the eponymous large-nosed poet-hero in an all-female version of Edmond Rostand’s Cyrano de Bergerac at Southwark Playhouse.So, you’re playing a man again…We were in China when I got the call about Cyrano. I had seen the Depardieu film and just loved the character – he’s a clown and a hero, but he also can’t be a hero because he has this whacking great nose. But he has wit and an enormous heart, and loves words – not for their own sake, but as the embodiment of the soul. It was too wacky an idea to turn down. I told my husband I was off to play Cyrano, and he was very jealous.What’s the reasoning behind an all-female cast?Glyn Maxwell’s verse translation was originally done at Chester, where they had more women than men in the company, so he set it in a convent, with the nuns telling the story to another nun. It’s relevant – the last act is set in a convent where [Cyrano’s beloved] Roxane retires. Everyone has a big nose – something that makes them feel unlovable, incapable, full of doubt and self-hate Does the cross-gender casting shed new light on the drama?What comes out is just playfulness. All theatre is pretend, and this is just another level of pretend. I always find it fascinating and fun to watch men being women. That act of trying to get into the heart and soul and body of the other gender is fascinating to watch.Are you also addressing the gender imbalance in theatre?I suppose so. I’ve sometimes found men’s roles are more interesting to play, because the women are often a bit more tedious.You’re playing a character perceived to be ugly, and you have never shied away from being grotesque on stage. Is it important for actors to lack vanity?I think so – performers and human beings. Cyrano is an everyman in the sense that everyone has a big nose – something that makes them feel unlovable, incapable, full of doubt and self-hate. It’s important to be ugly, because even the most beautiful model will feel ugly sometimes.How did the injuries you sustained in your 20s affect your career?It spurred me on, in a funny way. I think I was lucky to meet Complicite, which had such a vivid physical language – it was a joy to apply myself to that. Of course when you’re playing Cleopatra you think, “I wish I didn’t have a bit missing from my right foot, because it makes me walk funny”. Next year I’m going to be working with Jenny Sealey of [the theatre company for the disabled] Graeae, but I don’t know if she has asked me as an able-bodied performer or as a sort of halfway house…Do you feel more British, Greek or American?I adore the English language and the British sense of humour. I feel blessed to have grown up here. The gift of my Greek parentage is ancestral [links to] tragedy and comedy, those kind of currents. It’s lucky to be a bit of everything, a citizen of everywhere and nowhere.Are you concerned about cuts to the arts subsidy?My twin sister started as a social worker, went into social policy, and is now in responsible tourism, so there is always an example by my side of someone doing things that are socially responsible and active. But without wanting the arts to be overprotected and all that, I do feel that if you don’t nurture something there won’t be growth.Cyrano de Bergerac is at Southwark Playhouse, London SE1 until 19 March