Sitting down to talk, Gianfranco Rosi has several reasons to be peeved. First, there is an eavesdropping sunbather, bronzing incongruously on the cramped hotel patio where Rosi had hoped to hold his interview. The instant coffee has also narked him (“We’ll have to call the police,” he laughs – he’s Italian). Then there is the tardiness of his interviewer. Worst of all, the fact that I’ve arrived in the first place. I’m the Guardian’s migration correspondent, not the critic who recently called Rosi “a new significant force in European cinema” – and whom I suspect Rosi had hoped to meet instead.“I’m not a migration expert,” he sighs, settling for a table two metres from the sunbather. “I want to talk about film.”Rosi will have to get used to talking a bit about the former. His latest work, a beautiful documentary called Fire at Sea, chronicles people living on Lampedusa, the tiny and remote Italian island that lies closer to north Africa than to mainland Italy. Over the past few decades, some 400,000 asylum seekers have landed there en route to Europe.Fire at Sea review – masterly and moving look at the migrant crisis A few years ago, such a film might have been treated in the same vein as Rosi’s earlier efforts. Like Below Sea Level (2008), about a group of misfits in California, or Sacro GRA (2013), which documented life around the Rome ring-road, Fire at Sea is essentially a film about life on the periphery. Much of it is an intense character study of Samuele, a feisty 10-year-old who charges around the island firing at things with his handmade slingshot; his grandmother, Maria, who makes daily calls to the local DJ to request one of her five favourite songs; and the DJ himself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rosi making Fire at Sea.But Fire at Sea is attracting fiercer attention than Rosi’s earlier efforts. Not just because it won the top prize at the Berlin film festival in February, and is currently frontrunner for the best documentary Oscar next year, but on account of the scenes in between the mundane and the domestic. First is Pietro, the island’s doctor, who alternates checkups for locals such as Samuele with emergency care for the migrants passing through. Late in the movie, Rosi shows the rescue of a stricken smugglers’ boat, way to the south of Lampedusa. There are perhaps 500 teetering on its deck, or crammed below – and some 50 have already suffocated to death. In the film’s most shocking and surreal scene, Italian rescuers – dressed in white jumpsuits, and looking like spacemen – drag from the boat the limp and sometimes lifeless bodies of African passengers.It’s moments such as these that have seen the film received, reviewed and rewarded primarily as a film that captures the migration crisis. At the Berlinale, where asylum seekers were given free tickets and collections were made for refugee charities, it was the first pure documentary to ever win the Golden Bear. Days later, Italian prime minister Matteo Renzi said he would give a copy of the film to his 27 EU counterparts, suggesting that it would encourage them “to discuss immigration in a different way”.Several months on, as Rosi scowls at his Nescafé through thick-framed black spectacles, I ask him if this kind of reception was what he expected when he first started filming. Isn’t Fire at Sea, first and foremost, a film about a boy?“That’s what it is,” he agrees. “And if it had come out only two years ago, it would have been [received like] that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Samuele, the boy at the heart of the film.But then came the massive increase in refugee numbers last year – ironically through the Greek islands, not Lampedusa – and an increased cultural appetite for all things migration-related.“It’s very interesting to see how political pressure can change the interpretation of the film itself,” Rosi continues. “Nobody talks about the kid any more – and the kid is like 80% of the movie. The doctor is only 20% of the film, and people only talk about the doctor. People somehow grab what they can, and make their own conclusion. That’s fine – the film doesn’t belong to me. After the film is finished, the film belongs to the audience, it belongs to the public, it belongs to the journalists. Anybody can write whatever they want.”Perhaps counterintuitively then, I felt that the sections that focused exclusively on migrants were the least rounded. They are harrowing and well-observed, showing survivors chanting as they recall the horrors of their journey through Libya, or sobbing as they learn of the deaths of their friends at sea. But while I felt collective pity for them as a wretched mass of victims, I didn’t feel I got to know any of them as individual humans.Rosi acknowledges this, but says the way that migrants are now sped through Lampedusa means that he only had days or hours to bond with them, instead of the year he had with the people whose humanity he captures so wonderfully, such as Samuele and Pietro. Additionally, it took months to get permission to film inside the island’s migrant reception centre, and once Rosi got there, it was a challenging environment to work in.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A boat carrying migrants enters the port of Lampedusa. Photograph: Filippo Monteforte/AFP/Getty Images“To be there with a camera was very intimidating for me,” he remembers. “I was very ashamed to take it out and film. You have people who have just arrived in this world – and they are so intimidated. To put a camera there is a very strong act. So it was very difficult to film.”Perhaps the facelessness of the migrants is fitting, though. Apart from the doctor, most of the islanders don’t have much experience of the asylum seekers passing through. On arrival, they are taken immediately to a closed reception centre, where they stay only a couple of days before heading for the mainland. When Maria, the grandmother, hears the DJ mention the latest tragedy off Lampedusa (“Poor souls,” she mutters under her breath), this indirect interaction is the only moment in which she seems to engage with the crisis.“The films are basically two separate stories – the island, the people of the island; and the migrants arriving on the island,” says Rosi. “They never interact, they barely touch each other, and in between there is this [reception] institution, and there is the doctor who is somehow in between the two things.”It’s a dichotomy that became even more apparent after the film was shown to 1,800 Lampedusans in the island’s main square, Rosi says. “Many people were so moved by the movie, and they were crying, and they said they didn’t know about all this. Somehow I felt like Lampedusa was a metaphor for [how] Europe is [responding to the crisis]: we all know, we read the newspaper, but no one really has a knowledge of this.”It’s perhaps for this reason that I wish Fire at Sea had more from some of the crisis’s protagonists. I’ve been on two rescue missions in the Mediterranean, and by the time this article is published, I will probably be onboard another – so I know how hard it is to establish connections with refugees with a notebook, let alone a camera. But there is still time to bring out the rich details of people’s back-stories. And with the exception of an extraordinary shot of a Nigerian chanting – trance-like – about his ordeal to reach Lampedusa (the culmination of a three-day friendship between him and Rosi), this doesn’t happen a lot in Fire at Sea. Why not, I ask?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A young migrant in Fire at Sea.Because that’s not his style, he says. “I don’t want to make interviews in a film – I never do that,” Rosi responds. “So it was very difficult to have real contact, to know people. In order to film Samuele, I had to spend three months with him [without filming]. I wanted to know who he was, to be able to go into his life. [But] it was very difficult to spend any time [with the refugees] – unless by asking questions and making interviews, which I don’t want to do. I never do that. To capture something very strong which wasn’t platitudes – ‘I’m very happy to be here, thank you for saving us’, you know, the things we hear every day from reporting, from news – to be able to go very deep inside a story takes a very long time. And I never had that chance.”Not that Rosi seems to mind: he doesn’t like to spell things out to his viewers. “When I make a film I like to close the door as much as I can, instead of opening it up and saying the whole thing,” he says. “Michael Moore likes to open up the door. I close the door, more and more and more. That’s my challenge when I make a film, like a Giacometti statue: thinner, thinner, thinner, till it breaks. I want to tell less, less, less information, and give somehow more, more space for interpretation.”So is documentary the right word to describe Rosi’s films?“No, it’s probably not,” he replies. “But there’s so many types of documentary. Documentary has so many different elements. But for me the word documentary is important because it starts with reality – and reality is my main source of telling the story. I don’t change that, I stick to that, I don’t make people interact with other people that they don’t in real life.”That said, he doesn’t like the jerky, shaky aesthetic of more journalistic documentaries; well-crafted, cinematic shots are the touchstone of his work. “I never ask myself: am I doing a documentary, or am I doing fiction?” he says. “For me the word is cinema. I use the language of cinema in order to reinforce the reality.”It’s partly for this reason that Meryl Streep, who chaired the judges at Berlin, argued that Rosi had re-thought what can be achieved with the documentary genre. “It’s a daring hybrid of captured footage and deliberate storytelling that allows us to consider what documentary can do,” she said. “It demands its place in front of our eyes and compels our engagement and action.”And migration expert or not, Rosi certainly hopes his film will continue to inspire more of the latter. If not, he says, migrants will keep coming – and keep dying.“Right now there are 200,000 people ready to escape [in Libya], and nothing can stop them – not even the idea of death,” Rosi says. “I asked the Nigerian person who was chanting: what made you [cross the sea], if you knew that you might die by doing this? And the guy told me: the word ‘might’ is what makes us do it. There, we would definitely die. In the sea we ‘might’ die, so we still have some hope.”• Fire at Sea is released in the UK on 10 June. 