Variety has been forced to issue a correction after it posted a video interview in which Kristen Stewart called recent discussions about gender inequality in the Hollywood film industry “boring” with an erroneous headline that implied she was discussing Hollywood’s lack of racial diversity.In the video Stewart says: “Instead of sitting around complaining about that, do something. Go write something, go do something for yourself.“And that’s easy to say. Fuck, it’s hard to get movies made. It’s a huge luxury, like who gets to just make movies? But that subject is just so prevalently everywhere right now and it’s boring.”The video was later replaced with a longer version that included the interviewee’s question relating to a lack of opportunity for female actors and directors.However, several news sites had already published strongly worded critiques of Stewart. The Frisky’s Megan Reynolds wrote: “Diversity is super-boring for white people who don’t feel the adverse effects of systemic and institutional racism in every field, so I totally get where she’s coming from!”In a correction issued to its site, Variety staff blamed the mishap on bad labelling: “Comments made in a videotaped interview Monday with actress Kristen Stewart about gender equality in Hollywood ... were erroneously labelled on Variety.com in a way that suggested she was addressing issues pertaining to diversity. Variety regrets the error and apologises for any confusion.“The error was the result of an edit to the web page in which the video was presented without seeing the specific question Stewart was answering.”Women in Hollywood: plenty of talk but little change on equal pay The actor, best known for her role in the Twilight series, said any business as old as the film industry was going to have a “somewhat narrow view” but that it was “expanding quickly, on so many levels”. “It’s hard for me to speak to that because it’s awkward. I’m so fucking lucky and so stimulated and driven and not bored and I have something in front of me all the time, so it sounds weird for me to sit around and be like ‘It’s not fair.’ ”Stewart said her mother, a painter and script adviser, was always “making something” in between jobs and was “never bored”.The interview with Stewart was filmed at the Sundance film festival where she was promoting her new movie, Certain Women, directed by Kelly Reichardt and also starring Laura Dern and Michelle Williams.In 2015, several high-profile female Hollywood actors raised the issue of gender pay gap, including Jennifer Lawrence, Sharon Stone, Rooney Mara and Patricia Arquette in an Oscars speech when she collected her award for best supporting actor.