David Blaine has always looked a bit weary. The illusionist once said that he only feels alive when close to death, which might explain it. Unless he’s having a flutter with oblivion, life’s just a bit… leaden. Judging by the dark circles under his eyes and a monotone more glacial than ever, Blaine’s new show David Blaine: Beyond Magic (Monday, 9pm, Channel 4) depicts a man who may not have felt a thrill in years. What better pep, then, than to shoot a gun into your own mouth and catch the bullet in your teeth?The bullet trick – “Twelve magicians faked it… and died,” warns the narrator over a lemon barley water Aphex Twin soundscape – is built up as the climax of this one-off. Without giving too much away, Blaine doesn’t fake it and he doesn’t die. Which should come as a surprise to no one. Can you really imagine if this were being written after Blaine had not, in fact, caught a bullet from a .22 caliber rifle in his gob and instead it had fired out the back of his big, handsome skull and that was that? You can’t, can you?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Because Blaine’s life never really feels precarious. Even with shotguns. Even with mates, fellow magicians and even his dentist shaking their heads and telling him over and over that he’s one crazy son of a bitch. You absolutely know he is not going to die or else David Blaine: Beyond Magic would not have been finished or broadcast. You know it like you know you’re going to blink again before you get to the end of the next sentence. It makes the attention-seeking stunt by far the least exhilarating in this 42-minute extravaganza. It makes you want to pat him on the head and say: “It’s all right, mate. You don’t have to be such a try-hard.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hooked… Cara Delevingne on Beyond MagicNaturally, there are no such dissenting voices here. For TV, Blaine has roped in the usual gaggle of celebrities to look bedazzled. There’s Arnold Schwarzenegger, who now resembles less a human man and more some sort of glazed crocodile puppet as he looks on at Blaine doing some classic end-of-pier wine-glass eating. Jennifer Lawrence – very much still all human woman – screams at Blaine over FaceTime that he’s a witch, after an impressive cross-continent card trick. Later, Blaine enters John Travolta’s home and does something with his wedding ring, a clothes hanger and his oesophagus. Stop sniggering. For the Beckhams (also in their home) and for Drake, Blaine does actually seem to go beyond magic, somehow turning his stomach into an aquarium and bringing up a medley of live frogs for his lucky hosts. There is literally nothing not to like about watching Drake and at least 20 entourage members reduced to a collective babbling mess while watching writhing amphibians slip out from between the lips of a man.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Jimmy Fallon shocked by David Blaine’s ‘human aquarium’ trick on Tonight ShowAnd ultimately that’s what makes Blaine a commanding performer: not the card tricks, the glass eating, the endurance tests, being electrocuted for three days straight etc, in and of themselves, but the reactions he draws from those bearing witness to them. It’s the squeals of terrified rapture he elicits from people he meets on the street whose money and belongings he makes disappear (look out for the proper weird one involving an iPhone and a river). In the end, watching 1,000-volt human emotion trumps Tesla coils and chainmail. So put the gun down, David, and stick to coughing up sea creatures in the company of rap megastars.