Taylor Swift’s 1989 has continued its remarkable run of success – it sold 1.3m copies in its week of release in October 2014 – by winning the album of the year award at the Grammy awards in Los Angeles. Swift was also nominated for the awards for record of the year, song of the year, best pop solo performance, best pop duo/group performance, best pop vocal album and best music videoTaylor Swift: ‘Sexy? Not on my radar' Swift’s fifth album saw her move away from the pop country sound that had made her famous, and embrace an outright pop sound by working with a roll call of pop’s most efficient hitmakers, including Max Martin, Greg Kurstin, Ryan Tedder and Shellback. She described it as her “first official documented pop album”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 1989 captured the imagination not just of Swift’s already enormous and devoted audience, but also of the critics. “The really striking thing about 1989 is how completely Taylor Swift dominates the album,” wrote Alexis Petridis in the Guardian. “Martin, Kurstin et al make umpteen highly polished pop records every year, but they’re seldom as clever or as sharp or as perfectly attuned as this, which suggests those qualities were brought to the project by the woman whose name is on the cover.” She also became the voice that launched a thousand thinkpieces: was she a feminist hero? What did her videos really mean? Was she caught up in white privilege? Swift addressed the issue of her feminism in an interview with the Guardian, saying: “As a teenager, I didn’t understand that saying you’re a feminist is just saying that you hope women and men will have equal rights and equal opportunities. What it seemed to me, the way it was phrased in culture, society, was that you hate men. And now, I think a lot of girls have had a feminist awakening because they understand what the word means.”1989 ended up spending its entire first year of release in the US top 10, the fifth album to do so, and topped the charts for 11 non-consecutive weeks.The other nominees were: Alabama Shakes – Sound & Color; Kendrick Lamar – To Pimp a Butterfly; Chris Stapleton – Traveller; the Weeknd – Beauty Behind the Madness.