Energy minister Andrea Leadsom has told MPs she remains “open-minded” about plans to slash subsidies for solar power in order to protect consumer bills, but told MPs on Tuesday that “very expensive” nuclear power stations were nonetheless “affordable for customers”.Leadsom was questioned by MPs on the energy and climate change (ECC) select committee about proposed cuts to renewable energy subsidies that her predecessor has called “catastrophic”. She said changes were needed to avoid a projected overspend and that the government remained committed to cutting carbon emissions: “It is simply not the case the government is moving away from green,” she said, noting £42bn of renewable energy investment since 2010.Several solar companies have blamed the planned subsidy cuts for their closure, which has caused more than 1,000 job losses, and Leadsom accepted the plans had caused uncertainty. But she said it was a “short-term issue” to get over and that future announcements about an energy policy “reset” would be aimed at giving investors certainty.Solar industry bosses attack government over jobs and subsidies The consultation on the changes to renewable energy subsidies ends on Friday and Leadsom said: “I can absolutely tell you that my mind is open in terms of the consultation feedback. We do not have a foregone conclusion.” Asked about her Conservative predecessor Greg Barker’s comment that the plans were catastrophic, she said: “This is a consultation and anybody that has that view should feed into it.”The solar industry argues that 27,000 jobs are at risk but Leadsom said it was not possible at the moment to assess how many jobs might be affected. She said about 34,000 people worked in the solar industry but many worked for companies that did other business too. Critics have argued that the proposed 87% cut to the solar feed-in-tariff would kill off the industry just as it approaches the point when falling costs meant it would no longer need support. “It is vital that industries over time stand on their own two feet,” Leadsom said. “I don’t think anyone here would advocate an industry that only survives because of a subsidy paid by the billpayer. Are they in fact able to continue with a very much lower subsidy or not - this is the point we need to get to.”A deal to build a £24bn nuclear power station at Hinkley Point, supported by a 35-year subsidy deal, is expected to be announced on Wednesday, with a Chinese state-owned company taking a 33% stake in the project led by French state-owned company EDF.Angus MacNeil, the SNP chair of the ECC committee, said: “There is a feeling about that this government is miserly when it comes to renewables but profligate when it comes to nuclear. Is there one rule for renewables and one for nuclear?”Renewable energy and the politics of subsidies | Letters Leadsom said: “What we are looking at with nuclear is an absolutely reliable long-term source of long-term investment in low carbon energy. It addresses energy security and decarbonisation as well as the costs being affordable for consumers. We have absolutely focused on what is in it for the UK terms of these very expensive builds of new nuclear and we expect to get 60-75% of the expenditure to come into the UK supply chain.”Leadsom also criticised Friends of the Earth for warning in 2011 that subsidy cuts proposed at that time would devastate the solar industry, since which time installations have risen. “It is very important to keep in mind the balance between what we are achieving on the ground, which is the superb over-deployment of solar versus what we are hearing, which is that we are destroying jobs and destroying the sector,” she said. “We have chosen politically in this government to be on the side of hardworking families and businesses and to do everything we can to keep bills down.”China to take one-third stake in £24bn Hinkley nuclear power station But Craig Bennett, CEO of Friends of the Earth, rejected the criticism. “Andrea Leadsom’s comments only go to emphasise the hypocrisy and incompetence of this government when it comes to energy policy,” he said. “The solar industry would have been decimated in 2011, but Friends of the Earth went all the way to the supreme court to prove the plans were unlawful, and we’ve had four years of a UK solar success story as a result.”Bennett warned that the planned new cuts would cause many thousands of job losses. “Ministers defend this with tired old language about ‘billpayers’, ‘hardworking families’ and solar needing to ‘stand on its own two feet’. But they are applying exactly the opposite logic for new nuclear, where they’re happy to guarantee inflation-proof taxpayer subsidies at twice the market rate for the next 35 years,” he said. “Solar is about to join wind as one of the cheapest forms of electricity generation but after decades of pampering, nuclear remains one of the most expensive. The government needs to get out of its nuclear bunker, and see the light or else we’ll all pay the price”.