Kanye West has cancelled a show in Los Angeles, after a bizarre concert in Sacramento on Saturday where the rapper played three songs before going on a trademark ad-libbed speech where he criticized Beyoncé, Hillary Clinton, radio stations and Mark Zuckerberg.West was due to play The Forum in Los Angeles as part of his Saint Pablo tour and as a “makeup” show for a gig in November that he cut short after losing his voice. However, on Sunday the venue confirmed the gig was cancelled and that fans should seek refunds.Kanye West 'would’ve voted for Trump' in US elections On Saturday, West played in Sacramento but only got through three songs before going on a spoken-word detour and then abruptly walking off stage and ending the show. Ticketmaster confirmed they will offer full refunds.West started by criticizing radio stations for favoring certain acts and not giving air time to the likes of Frank Ocean and Kid Cudi. “A lot of people here tonight felt like they lost. You know why? Because y’all been lied to. Google lied to you. Facebook lied to you. Radio lied to you,” he said.“What I’m saying is we love Drake, Drake is great. He’s a great artist. But Frank Ocean is great, too.” He then went on to suggest that a utopia could be created if radio would fall in line with his egalitarian proposals. “We’ve got a hundred years out here, a hundred years on this planet, bro, and we can have a utopia. We can love each other. But the rules gotta be fair.”West also claimed that Beyonce only agreed to play the MTV Music Awards if she knew beforehand that she won the award for video of the year over West and Drake. Then West turned his attention to Zuckerberg, who West once asked to donate $53m so that he could get out of debt. “Mark Zuckerberg, you wanna call me now? Do I got the vision, Mark Zuckerberg? Was you wrong? When I said I was $53m in debt and you didn’t call me, was you wrong? … You said you would help and you didn’t. Then you went to look for aliens.”Clinton also got a mention, and was presented as a cautionary tale for those out of step with West’s thinking. “The Saint Pablo tour is more relevant than radio and if y’all keep following old models, your ass is going to be Hillary Clinton.”The cancellation and walk off finished off a difficult week for West, who was widely criticized after telling a crowd in San Jose that he didn’t vote in the US election, but if he did it would have been for Donald Trump.