Star Wars: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back(Irvin Kershner, 1980)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The most distant of dads – Darth Vader. His twin babies have been shipped off across the galaxy, the girl to become an interstellar princess (Leia), the boy (Luke Skywalker) to become a lowly farmhand on the dustpit planet of Tatooine, its only point of interest being its extra sun. When Vader does finally open up to his son, it’s, “Look, I might be the biggest villain in the universe, but I’m still your father,” lopping the lad’s arm off in a lightsaber duel while he’s at it. No wonder Luke replies with an agonised “Noooooooo!” and falls out of the spaceship in shock. Thanks a lot, Dad.Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade(Steven Spielberg, 1989)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Another long lost dad makes a none too welcome return. Harrison Ford’s archaeological action man was doing perfectly well – wresting the all-powerful ark of the covenant from Nazi hands in Raiders of the Lost Ark, retrieving the magical Sankara stones from a bloodthirsty cult in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom – and then up pops Dad in the tweedy, whiskery, know-all form of Sean Connery’s medievalist, Dr Henry Jones Sr, very much the block from which Indie was chipped. Not only does he call his intrepid offspring “Junior”, but he is also close to committing a real no-no among fatherly misdeeds – nicking the boy’s girlfriend, Dr Elsa Schneider.The Sound of Music(Robert Wise, 1965)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At first sight, Christopher Plummer’s stern, straight-backed Captain Von Trapp seems a bit of a stickler. Well, humourless disciplinarian, actually. A widower, he rules his seven singing offspring in brisk naval fashion, ordering them about with the aid of a ship’s whistle. But once free-spirited young nun Maria (Julie Andrews) arrives as governess at the family schloss in the Austrian Alps, his soft centre is revealed. He falls in love, lets music back in the house – and even upstages the kids with a husky performance of the patriotic Edelweiss, before whisking them over the mountains to freedom from the Nazis. Aye-aye, Cap’n.Paper Moon(Peter Bogdanovich, 1973)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Conman Moze Pray may or may not be the father of nine-year-old orphan con-girl Addie Loggins in this poignant depression-era comedy, but as they are played by real-life father and daughter Ryan and Tatum O’Neal, we’ll give him the benefit of the doubt. Although Moze only takes Addie on for the $200 attached, it’s a touching relationship with the girl proving a natural at helping him to con widows. It turns out Addie really is the brains of the partnership.The Godfather(Francis Ford Coppola, 1971)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Can a Godfather make a good father? Hard to say on the evidence of Marlon Brando’s Don Vito Corleone. What a contradictory old boy the don is. He espouses strong family values: “A man who doesn’t spend time with his family can never be a real man,” he says at a sun-dappled family wedding party, while behind the scenes he is the most cunning old fox of a mafia boss. No wonder his youngest son, Al Pacino’s Michael, proves to be ruthless and brilliant at the family’s dirty business – but rubbish in his personal life.To Kill a Mockingbird(Robert Mulligan, 1962)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you were to design the perfect father, you might well come up with something close to Atticus Finch, as played by Gregory Peck. As the lawyer fearlessly defending a black man accused of raping a white woman in the racist town of Maycomb, Alabama, he is the embodiment of incorruptible moral probity. But he’s also the kindest, most affectionate widower-father of young Jem and little Jean Louise, aka Scout. He lets them call him Atticus and speaks lovingly and honestly to them. And he has a cool secret, revealed by the sheriff: “Don’t you know your daddy’s the best shot in this county?”Silver Linings Playbook(David O Russell, 2012)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Robert De Niro, on the other hand, displays pretty dodgy parenting skills in David O Russell’s offbeat romcom. His Pat Solitano Sr is none too happy when his son Pat Jr (Bradley Cooper), who has bipolar disorder, returns to the family nest after an altercation with his ex-wife’s lover and a spell in a psychiatric clinic. Irascible Pat Sr finds his son’s angry search for life’s silver linings an unwelcome distraction from his first love – the Philadelphia Eagles, and his illegal gambling habit. Still, when it comes to the crunch, he’s ready to bet the house on Junior and his new girlfriend (Jennifer Lawrence’s troubled Tiffany) nailing it in the local dance competition …Mrs Doubtfire(Chris Columbus, 1993)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest San Francisco voiceover artist and devoted father of three Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is a hugely irritating, juvenile chump. But you have to give him credit for the effort he makes to see more of the kids when his wife (Sally Field) understandably divorces him, and wins custody. Any dad willing to dress in matronly drag, affect a dodgy Scottish accent and pose as a supposedly twinkly but actually quite weird nanny to insinuate his way into the family home can’t be all bad. Well, he can, but it’s artfully hidden behind thick layers of facepaint.Finding Nemo(Andrew Stanton, Lee Unkrich, 2003)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Here’s a dad willing to go the extra nautical mile for his kid. In Pixar’s animated adventure, Marlin is an anxious clown fish who lives in the Great Barrier Reef. He’s anxious because little Nemo is his last surviving offspring, the other fishkids and their mum having been snapped up by a shark. Guess what? Dad’s right: first chance Nemo gets, he’s swept up in a net and packed off to a dentist’s tropical fishtank in Sydney. So Marlin and his short-term-memory-challenged girlfriend Dory (motto: “Just keep swimming”) set out on an epic search-and-rescue mission.Fiddler on the Roof(Norman Jewison, 1971)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest For a big ol’ lovable bear of a dad, step forward Chaim Topol’s Tevye, milkman and patriarch in a Jewish community in 1905 Russia. However hard times get – and there’s a pogrom on the way – there’s always time for a tuneful If I Were a Rich Man. What’s more, much as he loves to talk about the importance of tradition, he sacrifices it when his daughters’ happiness is at stake. He lets Tzeitel marry her sweetheart, rather than the old butcher; lets Hodel wed her love, after initial anger at not being consulted; and, finally, quietly blesses youngest girl Chava, even though she’s fallen for a Christian. What a mensch.