It’s midnight in Paris – at least according to the British newspapers. A plan to police the French capital with an “incivility brigade” has opened a sewer of schadenfreude as the British media portray the city as a “post-apocalyptic hellhole”. The brigade is a public relations disaster. Its very existence draws attention to cigarette butts and public urination instead of publicising the city’s strengths, while the patrols are reported to be largely absent.Paris's 'incivility brigade' nowhere to be seen This latest rubbishing of Paris comes at the end of a summer in which fear of terrorist attacks continued to drive down tourism. Floods and strikes haven’t helped, either. One positive symptom I’ve noticed is that the awful mimes have left the forecourt of the Pompidou Centre, like rats deserting a sinking city. If you want to see a floating Yoda nowadays, you have to go to Tate Modern. This is all ridiculous, of course. Paris is not a rubbish-filled dump, nor does it deserve to lose its cachet with tourists. It is one of the most beautiful cities on Earth, and it always will be. Compared with Paris, London is an architectural joke and an artistic wasteland. It is London that can make you shudder just by looking at its skyline. And London, not Paris, where looking at art can mean a choice between a pile of bricks and 20,000 paintings by Turner.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Trash in the sky’ … London’s financial district. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesAre there a few fag butts on the streets of the Marais? Perhaps, but it’s hard to pay attention to them while enjoying a coffee amid this district’s well-preserved 17th-century houses and perusing the works in the Picasso Museum that is located there. After feasting on Picasso’s prodigious creativity you might stroll to the Pompidou and see rooms full of Matisse, Braque, Duchamp …'A tortured heap of towers': the London skyline of tomorrow You can see also Matisse and Picasso in Tate Modern, of course – a token handful of works by each. In Paris, the masterpieces of modernism are laid out to tuck into like a salade niçoise. That’s before you get started on the Louvre, which takes a lifetime to explore. And then there are the medieval splendours of Sainte-Chapelle.But the true catastrophe of modern London is architectural. Paris may have litter on its streets. The British capital has trash in the sky. Irresponsible buildings of mediocre, flashy, undistinguished designs have scarred the city with glass spikes and warped monstrosities. Anyone who kids themselves this is more vital and energetic than today’s Paris is deluded. Urine in the street can be washed away. What will wash away the bad architecture that blights London?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matisse’s Blue Nudes cut-outs at the Pompidou Centre. Photograph: AFP/Getty ImagesDefenders of the Shard like to compare it with the Eiffel Tower. They will tell you that when Gustave Eiffel built his beacon of the modern world in the late 19th century, cultural conservatives opposed it. In the future, critics of the Shard will seem just as ludicrous. There is one difference, however. The Eiffel Tower is a gloriously original, optimistic, curvaceous, gratuitous delight of a building that romanticises the skyline of Paris. The Shard is an aggressive, cold, inhuman tower. Perhaps a hundred years from now the Woody Allen of the future will make a film in which an American in London goes back in time to meet Damien Hirst and have a pizza below the Shard. Though I think it’s unlikely. Brash philistines can keep London. The rest of us will always have Paris.