About 15 years ago, gay photography was largely concerned with nudity and sexuality. There were lots of shots of scantily clothed young subjects romping through the forest or laughing on the beach. I wanted to offer a different perspective, so started photographing the homes of LGBTQ people. Gay men often had a flair for design and lived in some of the most playful places I had ever seen. There was a breed of beatnik iconoclasts and maverick bohemians in New York’s Greenwich Village and San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury – and they were disappearing. Many had died in the Aids epidemic.This is Randal Kleiser, the LA film-maker who directed Grease and The Blue Lagoon. He lives in a typical 1960s ranch house, but attached to it is a red barn where he keeps farm animals. I often wonder what these animals are thinking – what do they make of the skyline behind them? Randall treated them as pets rather than as something utilitarian. It looks like the horse is reading his scripts with him.You see farm animals a surprising amount in LA. There was once a scheme to use goats to “mow” grass. It was meant to be more environmentally friendly, though you could argue it created a lot of methane. And in Mexican communities, it’s not uncommon to see chickens in front yards. You’d be looking at a house to buy and hear this rooster and think: “Oh, I don’t want to live here.” You also see coyotes, foxes, deer and rattlesnakes. I’ve always had an appreciation of animals. At school, I started this group called Cows Can Collect Credit – there were so many cows in Burlington, Vermont, where I grew up, and I thought nobody appreciated them. It was so successful, with so many kids joining, that the school made me shut it down.Vermont is widely considered the most liberal state in the US – Bernie Sanders was once mayor of Burlington – but I still worried about being beaten up. Prior to the 1990s, it was not acceptable to be gay. You had to be hush-hush. You had to conform, alter your voice and the way you looked. There weren’t many gay characters on TV: the few that did exist were either extremely effeminate or hairdressers. So people used their homes as a sanctuary, where they could truly express themselves. The film-maker John Waters is quirky and idiosyncratic, so you’d expect him to have a really interesting crazy space – and so it was. His house in Baltimore had an electric chair in the entryway and there was all this fake fruit everywhere. In his attic, he had this art installation that looked like a place terrorists would use to manufacture anthrax. Mother Flawless Sabrina, the 1960s drag queen, had wigs up everywhere, not to mention portraits of himself, gold leaf on his ceiling and Brillo pads taped on his wall. He even had a Picasso – though I never found out if it was real. I did find homes that went the other way, though. They were very formal and colonial, like their owner is saying: “I’m just like everybody else.”Tom Atwood’s Kings & Queens in Their Castles is published by Damiani in April.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Atwood.Tom Atwood’s CV Born: Vermont, 1971.Trained: Economics and politics at Harvard and Cambridge; self-taught in photography.Influences: Gregory Crewdson, Joel Sternfeld, Arnold Newman and David LaChappelle. High point: “The new book. It took so long – I went to 30 different states.”Low point: “I’ve been burnt out to the point that I felt lifeless.”Top tip: “Don’t focus on equipment, lenses, camera and lighting. Focus on composition, setup, expression and the moment.