Martin Clunes: Islands of Australia 8pm, ITVRather than be tied down – like a kangaroo, perhaps? – to the mainland, this new three-part travelogue sees the enthusiastic Doc Martin star explore some of the 8,000 islands that surround Australia. That means strolling along sun-dappled beaches, attempting to clamber up palms and learning moves from hip-swaying troupe the Baunti Byuutis. He also has a chinwag with Seaman Dan, a pearl diver-turned-unlikely pop star. Graeme VirtueOur Dancing Town 9pm, BBC2Like a hoofing Gareth Malone, choreographer Steve Elias believes in the power of dance to change lives. How to demonstrate this? The self-styled working-class boy heads to Yorkshire to stage a series of spectacles infused with the democratic, inclusive spirit of the London 2012 opening ceremony. Elias begins this five-part series in Barnsley, where those he’s trying to persuade to perform include ex-miners as well as young Billy Elliots. Jonathan WrightSugar Free Farm 9pm, ITVPeter Davison, Alison Hammond, Joe Pasquale, Ann Widdecombe, Stavros Flatley and Gemma Collins (from Towie) swap white baps and fudge for flaxseed shakes and spiralised courgette, as the C-list dietary boot camp makes its return. Rather than push the dubious suggestion that refined carbs and sugar are pure, untouchable poison, the danger of our addiction to them is made abundantly clear. Especially when one contestant is hospitalised on day two. Jack SealeRectify 9pm, AMC The fourth and final season of the grossly underrated, poignant and occasionally dark US drama about a man released from death row continues. Janet in particular is struggling to cope with Daniel’s absence, while Amantha and Teddy work out a plan to switch places that could keep both of them sane. Slow-moving, sparse and downbeat as ever, this week’s episode focuses less on the murder arc and instead offers an intriguing window into Holden/Talbot family dynamics. Hannah J DaviesBuilding the Dream 9pm, More4Charlie Luxton returns for a new series of the home makeover show, helping to transform dowdy dwellings. Tonight’s opener sees Charlie team up with Sam and Eryka in Brockley, south-east London, as they attempt to convert a derelict industrial unit into a modern warehouse-style home with room for an artist studio. With life savings on the line, and planning permission to circumnavigate, finding the perfect balance between work and living space will be essential. Mark Gibbings-JonesRevolting 10pm, BBC2 True enough, Heydon Prowse and Jolyon Rubinstein aren’t always funny. However, you can’t deny that they fully throw themselves into their satirical interactions (as their pal Grant Shapps might concede). Getting stuck into some city gents and ladies as Labour canvassers has its moments. And their chutzpah as they waltz into a BHS and command staff to sell stock, so Philip Green can have a “truly bedazzling” fourth yacht, is an impressively off-kilter caper. John RobinsonThis Is Us 10pm, Channel 4The weekly weepathon keeps on giving, with the drama’s timeshift format highlighting the Pearson family’s choices and regrets. Kate aces a job interview, but is thrown when the motive for hiring her is revealed. Kevin is having trouble letting his emotions out for a new role, so Olivia comes up with a novel (and dishonest) way to unlock them. Back in the past, Rebecca and Jack face a dilemma over Randall’s schooling when it emerges that he is gifted. Hannah VerdierFilm choicesThe Blue Dahlia (George Marshall, 1946) 2.55pm, Film4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Veronica Lake and Alan Ladd in The Blue Dahlia. Photograph: Allstar Collection/Cinetext/PARA/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarThis hard-boiled, Raymond Chandler-scripted thriller stars Alan Ladd as war vet Johnny Morrison, returning to LA only to be framed for his wife’s death. Dodgy blonde Veronica Lake is pure trouble, while war buddy William Bendix gets blinding headaches on account of the steel plate in his head – or maybe his drinking habits: “Bourbon, straight! With a bourbon chaser!”Wałęsa: Man of Hope (Andrzej Wajda, 2013) Tuesday, 10pm, BBC4One of the late Andrzej Wajda’s last films is a powerful biopic of Lech Wałęsa, the electrician who jumped over the wall into a Polish shipyard in 1980 to lead the strike that gave birth to Solidarność. That movement’s election helped end communist rule and hasten the fall of the Berlin wall. It’s a compelling record of events, recording the state’s brutal efforts to uphold its complacent leaders, while Robert Więckiewicz captures Lech’s bullish confidence, and also his tenderness with his wife Danuta (Agnieszka Grochowska) and their six children. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportLeague Cup football: Manchester United v Hull City Semi-final, first-leg fixture from Old Trafford (kick-off 8pm). 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1French League Cup football: Sochaux v Monaco A quarter-final from Stade Auguste Bonal.7.45pm, BT Sport 2NBA: Toronto Raptors v Boston Celtics Eastern Conference Atlantic Division clash (tip-off 12.30am). 12.30am, BT Sport 2