Don’t miss out on this special screening event. Hosted by Guardian film critic, Luke Buckmaster, with special guests Jan Chapman, Hannie Rayson and Van Badham – these three feisty and funny women will provide great insights into the film, families (dysfunctional and not) and all types of love. Have a drink, ask some questions and join the conversation.DetailsWhere: Cinema Nova, 380 Lygon Street, Carlton VICWhen: 16 March 2016Start: Film starts at 6:45pm with post show discussion from 8:30pmPrice: $15 (Includes complimentary glass of wine)The DaughterSimon Stone makes his feature debut with an adaptation of his award-winning play The Wild Duck. A man returns to his hometown and unearths a long-buried family secret. As he tries to right the wrongs of his past, his actions threaten to shatter the lives of those he left behind years before. The Daughter boasts a powerhouse cast starring Paul Schneider, Geoffrey Rush, Anna Torv, Ewen Leslie and Miranda Otto at the height of their talents combined with a finely crafted, emotional script and assured direction by acclaimed actor and stage director Stone.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Panelists: Jan Chapman has produced some of Australia’s most critically successful and popular films – including Palme d’Or nominated Bright Star, AFI Best Film winner, Lantana and Academy Award® winner The Piano. Jan has supported and nurtured the careers of some of its most talented filmmakers and was the executive producer on Somersault, Suburban Mayhem, Griff the Invisible and The Babadook. Her films have won many awards and have had numerous screenings and honours across the globe at the world’s top film festivals including Venice, Toronto, Berlin and Cannes. In 2004, Jan was honoured for her outstanding contribution to the Australian film industry as the recipient of the Order of Australia.Hannie Rayson is one of Australia’s most significant playwrights, her first major success Hotel Sorrento is considered an Australian classic and was made into a much loved film. Her recent works include Inheritance, Life After George and Extinction - all told with her trademark wit and warmth.  Self deprecating and hilarious - Hannie’s new book Hello, Beautiful! captures the joy in the everyday and is a love letter to Melbourne, friends and family.Van Badham is a Guardian columnist and cultural critic, the winner of three Premiers’ literary awards for her creative work and a theatre-maker of international renown. Van is also known her feisty and funny take on life’s absurdities.Luke Buckmaster is film critic and writer for Guardian Australia, and contributes commentary to a range of Australian publications. Guardian Film Club is a celebration of Australian films and talent. It uses great Australian films to spur interesting discussions and explore how the film’s themes link to broader society. It is also a chance to see new films first, meet other film buffs and contribute to the conversation. (These panels and Q & A will become podcasts - available for free).The next films and topics coming up are:13 April - Remembering the Man. Theme: Sexual Education. Panelists include Nickolas Bird (Director), 27 April - A Month of Sundays. Theme: Masculinity. Panelists include Steve Biddulph.Stay tuned for more to be announced.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We would like to thank our venue partners Cinema Nova.Returns policyTickets are non-refundable. Read our T&Cs here.