A government drive to encourage people to switch tariffs is a laughable response to our broken energy system (Shop around for savings, energy customers told, 18 October). The big six energy companies supply 99% of British households and make massive profits from a stitched-up market. They stand to make many billions by keeping us hooked on increasingly expensive fossil fuels. Consumers are already being hit hard by the energy companies' stranglehold – they alone do not have the power to break it. Instead of cosying up to the big six and cutting funding for energy efficiency, the government should be creating a fair system that provides energy we can all afford – that's why our Final Demand campaign is calling for an urgent public inquiry into the behaviour and influence of the big six.Andy AtkinsFriends of the Earth• Smaller suppliers welcome Chris Huhne's move to hold a "customer summit" on Monday. They support measures to bring about more switching for domestic energy customers ahead of winter.Ofgem has been struggling to open up wholesale markets, which the big six also dominate, to help independent retailers and generators. But after nearly two and a half years of considering the issue, we still await detailed proposals.SSE announced last week it is to bring all its generation to market the day ahead of delivery. This should increase transparency but will do little to stimulate retail competition as suppliers need access to longer-term power and flexible products. The government should urgently press Ofgem to introduce a market maker and require the big six to auction monthly, seasonal and annual power.The competitive market and the consumer interest are best served by actions to reduce barriers to entering the electricity and gas markets. Market rules have been made deliberately complex and impose excessive costs and terms of trade on smaller players. New environmental provisions such as the energy company obligation (ECO) should be phased in for smaller players until critical mass (perhaps one million customers) is achieved.Nigel CornwallChairman, Independent Energy Suppliers Forum• Consumers should not be paying the price on their energy bills while shareholders reap greater profits. The problem is deep and growing. The PLC model does not work when it comes to industries where profits and the public good are at odds – nowhere is this more so than in our energy and water industries. Relying on government regulation is an ineffective way of protecting the public interest.There are alternatives to PLCs. Welsh Water is owned by its customers, and Ebico is a social enterprise energy provider that reinvests its surpluses, draws on renewable sources and helps those who can't afford to pay their bills. These businesses, free from hungry shareholders, are proof that energy service providers can work for the people. The government needs the courage to break free of a system that is failing the British public.Peter HolbrookChief executive, Social Enterprise UK• It is futile for the government to respond to rising fuel prices by instructing energy consumers to "shop around". Because the so-called energy markets operate in effect on a zero-sum basis, one person's price cut must in the long run become another's price rise. It is time governments realised that markets and natural monopolies do not go together. If we cannot have the utilities brought back into the public domain where they belong, consumers would be better served if the government directly regulated energy prices in the same way as it controls the fares of privatised trains.Robin WendtChester• So every household pays the energy companies an average of £125 on top of the actual cost of getting the energy. That's another of Thatcher's legacies to thank her for then, along with similar handouts to the railway industry, the housing shortage caused by selling council houses (leading in turn to galloping inflation in the housing market), the run-down of manufacturing, the rampant madness of the financial services sector…And people still vote Conservative!Jeffrey R ButcherMorecambe• Our prime minister urges us to shop around for energy suppliers, but few of us have the time or inclination to engage regularly in such a tedious activity, especially given that the answer we come up with may be out of date after the next round of price adjustments. Not-for-profit boards should be given the task of obtaining gas and electricity for consumers at the best possible prices. But such a change won't happen until politicians and opinion formers grow out of their quasi-religious belief in the mystical powers of market forces and come to realise that not every area of life is beneficially susceptible to individual consumer choice.Brian HughesCheltenham, Gloucestershire• It's pleasing to see the benefits of wider choice and lower prices brought to us via the competition engendered by privatisation and commercialisation of our essential services, driven by their drive to maximise profits for their shareholders and directors – think gas, electricity and rail. No doubt these eventual benefits are what Lansley graciously has in mind for all of us with his health and social care bill when we use the NHS in years to come?Michael MillerSheffield