In the weekly pop steeplechase of the Top 40 a sudden, percussive shout of “Hey!” is the stuff of thoroughbred chart champions. Consider the biggest tunes of the last few years and your playlist will sound more like a “heylist”. “Hey!” has been part of pop for decades, but in 2013 Katy Perry’s Roar set in motion a modern-day “reheyssance”. The following year, Perry’s Dark Horse was the planet’s second biggest-selling single, behind only persistent “Hey!” apologist Pharrell Williams’s Happy, while Iggy Azalea became a global star thanks to DJ Mustard-esque “Hey!” use in Fancy, and Taylor Swift let rip in Bad Blood. By 2015, Major Lazer’s Lean On was the most streamed song of all time, the Weeknd launched his bid for pop superstardom with Can’t Feel My Face and Little Mix spent three weeks at No 1 with Black Magic, all using “Hey!”, while Carly Rae Jepsen’s Emotion album featured the sound on multiple tracks.Last year suggested the music industry had found a cure for “Hey!”-fever but Frank Ocean’s Nikes and Hillary Clinton’s penchant for Rachel Platten’s Fight Song set the stage for a 2017 comeback: it’s in Ed Sheeran’s Galway Girl (the remix of Sheeran’s Shape of You by electronic duo Galantis was also bolstered by extra “Hey!” moments), the year’s hottest new pop artist Sigrid deploys multiple “Hey!”s on her debut single Don’t Kill My Vibe, Little Mix are back at it with Touch and Kasabian’s You’re in Love With a Psycho is around 18% more commercial thanks to a “Hey!” in its chorus.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hey! maker Sigrid. Photograph: Island RecordsClearly there’s more to this than serendipity, so apart from sounding absolutely amazing in any setting, what is it that makes “Hey!” pop’s go-to sound? Over to Oxford University professor of music Eric Clarke. “‘Hey!’ involves a rapid and explosive out-breath, which is a strong physical gesture,” he tells me. “It’s a strong expression of one’s own body.” It could, he adds, also make people happier. “Think about the mouth shape required to make the sound ‘Hey!’ – a lot of psychological studies say that if people adopt a facial position that resembles a smile, they actually feel more positive.”Back in London, Anya Jones, who A&Rs acts such as Little Mix for Simon Cowell’s entertainment company Syco, is more enthusiastic. “The girls love a ‘Hey!’,” she laughs. “When they did the ‘Hey!’ in Black Magic they created a dance move for it and it became a burst of energy for them. There has to be a ‘Hey!’ in Little Mix songs now. It’s free and primal.”Galantis are similarly fond of “Hey!”; their biggest tunes all feature one, as does their next single. “We came out with ‘Hey!’s early on and a lot of other acts in dance music were stealing them,” recalls the band’s Christian Karlsson. “We started hearing our ‘Hey!’s everywhere.” “We knew we had to take it further,” adds bandmate Linus Eklöw – so they moved on from sampled “Hey!”s to recording their own. “They’re now done by children,” Eklöw adds. “We get three or four children to go in, and we overdub it until we get a good ‘Hey!’. The young ones are good at the ‘Hey!’s.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Black Magic by Little MixThe current trend may have roots in songs like Arcade Fire’s No Cars Go but acts such as the Lumineers and Of Monsters & Men subsequently threw around “Hey!”s so indiscriminately that by 2014 comedian Harris Alterman had created the character Connor Redwood. In a short video, Redwood revealed that it was he who provided every “Hey!” in pop. “Yelling ‘Hey!’,” Redwood intoned, “is my life.” Reflecting on Redwood’s fate, Alterman says today: “Connor’s career went downhill after the ‘Hey!’ trend faded from folk. Now he’s trying to market himself as a teacher of yelling ‘Hey!’ for children but isn’t drumming up any business; you don’t need to be taught how to yell ‘Hey!’ because it’s really easy.”Is “Hey!” really a folk tradition, as Galway Girl is the latest song to suggest? fRoots columnist Tim Chipping suggests that’s a red herring. “In folk you’re more likely to get ‘Ho!’ as in ‘Ho, boys, ho’ from the shanty song tradition,” he explains, “or you’ll get ‘Hup!’ which tends to come from the Celtic tradition. A lot of modern folky groups are based on an imaginary version of folk; ‘Hey!’ is from a wrongly imagined version of the folk tradition.” In other words, if you want to know why there’s a “Hey!” in Galway Girl you’re best off looking to B*Witched’s C’est La Vie.One of the most electrifying “Hey!” moments in pop history came on the Art Of Noise’s Close to the Edit (also sampled for the Prodigy’s Firestarter). It was journalist and Art of Noise member Paul Morley who, many years later, called it “the ‘Hey’ that launched a million ships”. I call the Art Of Noise’s JJ Jeczalik to ask how his seminal “Hey!” came about.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Harris Alterman’s comedy character Connor Redwood A good Hey! can be both lyrical and percussiveRichard X “My girlfriend at the time taught in a girls’ school in Ascot,” Jeczalik recalls. “She told me there was this pupil, Camilla [Pilkington-Smyth], who had an amazing voice. I went: ‘Really? Why don’t I come down to the school?’ I turned up with a Revox A77 [tape recorder], a couple of microphones and we went into the chapel to record.” It was an ad-hoc session. Jeczalik was after short percussive sounds and “Hey!”’ was one of them; Pilkington-Smyth recorded several, but Jeczalik immediately knew which to use and ditched the rest. “As soon as I heard it, I knew it was incredible,” Jeczalik remembers. “I had goosebumps. The hair stood up on the back of my neck. I heard the magic in that chapel.” That chapel, Jeczalik offers, added character to the “Hey!”. “It created its own space and time: there’s a lot of room in the sound and it’s right there in the sample; you can’t subtract it. Equally, it’s very hard to add or replicate.”Click on the above to stream Peter Robinson’s Hey! playlist on SpotifyMaybe in 1984, but how about 33 years later? I contact producer Richard X, who delivered one of this century’s defining “Hey!” moments in the form of Rachel Stevens’s glam-inspired smash Some Girls. I pop round to his studio and he lays it out in some detail. “A good ‘Hey!’ can be both lyrical and percussive,” he explains. “They’re usually done at the end of a session because they can destroy singers’ voices, but because the singer knows they’re about to go down the pub, you get one final burst of energy.”X decides I should record my own “Hey!”. “You’ve got to have passion,” he warns, as he adjusts my mic. “In a few milliseconds you need to get snap and energy.” I record six “Hey!”s. One deemed “the runt of the litter” is dumped; others are combined then repeated across several different tracks in ProTools. X spaces them around “to make it more of an event”. Then comes the EQ: he removes bass, increases treble, adds distortion with a compressor, then deploys reverb. Calling up presets he throws me into something claiming to be a “black hole”, pitches me up, then fires up the Altiverb plugin, which offers different acoustic settings; there’s no chapel, but there’s a sports hall and Wembley Stadium. I ask X, if in the event of my “Hey!” turning up on a hit record, I’ll get a writing credit; he suggests I might get performance royalties. It’s become a filler word for writers. It’s not as bad as throwing in ‘baby’, but it’s up thereChloe Weise Sadly, I could have missed my window. “Hey!” may have been part of pop for decades but the current hyper-obsession can’t last for ever. “For every good ‘Hey!’ there’s a bad ‘Hey!’,” Karlsson from Galantis admits. “It’s become a filler word for writers. It’s not as bad as throwing in ‘baby’, but it’s up there.”Over to LA, and RCA Records A&R manager Chloe Weise, who looks after acts such as Britney Spears and Sia, agrees. “Using ‘Hey!’ or anything else of the sort, in an arbitrary way, feels passe,” she comments.“‘Hey!’ has likely served as a placeholder, when writers can’t think of something else to put there, more times than I can count,” she says.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Closer by the Chainsmokers“It can provide texture to a track in an interesting way – in a song like Closer by the Chainsmokers it works because it’s used to give the song a conversational feel – but when you look to the use of ‘Hey!’ as a background vocal or just a sound, it can get diluted.”If “Hey!” is on its way out – I’m painting a picture, here, of a “Hey!” wane – what will take its place? Galantis insist “Hey!” is going nowhere (“It’s part of pop,” Eklöw notes, solemnly) but they have an under-wraps new sound they think might join “Hey!” in the pop pantheon; Karlsson is wary of audio of our interview leaking, but eventually lets out something that sounds like a cross between a whoop and a siren.Comic Harris Alterman imagines Connor Redwood now being the man who plays “Goddamn pan flutes” on every pop song, while Little Mix A&R Jones suggests “Oi!” might work, as “it would grab Spotify listeners more quickly”, but she’s not letting go of “Hey!” quite yet.“The current trend for pitched-up vocals and massive drops definitely needs to go away,” she says. “But ‘Hey!’ can stay. ‘Hey!’ will never die.”