Essence, BournemouthUltra HD TV is the technology industry’s latest attempt to get you to watch telly on a box in the corner rather than a laptop, aspirationally sitting on a couch rather than hiding under a blanket. It probably won’t work, because the onslaught of crystalline pixels feels slightly unpleasant. Musically, though, the effect is totally awesome, and DIY-produced, starkly digital high-definition music is the best thing in club culture at the moment. Headlining here is Kamixlo, a blue-haired south London DJ who plays grime, reggaeton and trap, and makes music that’s minimal, riotous and spooky. He’s part of London’s Endless and Bala Club crews, and has emerged in the last year as one of the most exciting producers in a really exciting scene. He’s joined by promising Bournemouth artist Lapsung, who makes tunes with the perfect mix of obnoxiousness and prettiness. Visuals will, of course, be provided in high definition.60 Million Postcards, SatCJValentine’s nights, LondonIf the combination of a Moonpig card and a bout of ennui in Pizza Express fills you with dread, your best bet might be to stay up until the early hours at one of these Saturday Valentine’s events; true romance can be found in weakly feeding each other cans of pop the following day. Disco, with its textures of sheepskin and leather, is predictably paramount, particularly at Futureboogie’s roller disco at Oval Space (E2), with Tiger & Woods and others soundtracking the slightly terrified hand-holding. Expect a pansexual disco orgy at Dance Tunnel (E8), with the exceptional duo of Tama Sumo and Prosumer; also replicating the giddy first flush of love are the 2 Bears and Star Slinger at Kitsuné’s latest party at Village Underground (EC2) playing more disco, plus emotional house and cutesy pop-inflected bangers. Garage lovers meanwhile can cover their partners in champagne – or indeed pints – at the likely chaotic “full crew takeover” at So Solid’s Valentine’s Ball at Electric Brixton (SW2), which features Oxide & Neutrino in support.BBHeadset, EdinburghDespite the ever-increasing homogenisation of dance music, Bristol’s musical landscape has largely resisted conformity. Perhaps that’s because it’s tautly wound around a centralised group of innovators including Idle Hands and the Young Echo crew, with labels such as BRSTL, Bandulu and Punch Drunk cutting across a number of styles. Jacob Martin, AKA Hodge, is part of that extensive lineage, and over the last four years his no-nonsense approach has produced an impressive run of releases. Last year alone saw a darkly apprehensive EP on Hemlock, a fizzy-headed 12-inch with Peverelist, and a melody-saturated three-track volley on Berceuse Heroique. Catch him headlining here.The Bongo Club, FriSCBeginnings, LiverpoolBeginnings, a new night from stalwart Merseyside house and techno promoters Abandon Silence, promises “forward-thinking” light and sound. This second outing perfectly compliments such ambitions, featuring Mount Kimbie on DJ duties. Also present is Young Marco, who has become something of an unpredictable tastemaker on the European club circuit, while Manchester’s Willow continues to earn plaudits for her soulful productions and focused sets.Camp And Furnace, FriJTSouthbound, LondonWith its logo cheekily riffing on that of Southwark council, this new night from the people behind XOYO and Phonox looks likely to be a welcome addition to Peckham’s nightlife. The inaugural lineup is unimpeachable, topped by DJ Zinc, a grandmaster who draws from two decades travelling through jungle, garage and UK funky. Bok Bok’s effervescent sets squelch through vintage boogie and ghetto house; Flava D and Wookie bring high-tempo garage flexing, topped with plenty of wheel-ups. Grime futurist Faze Miyake also appears, fresh from the release of his appealingly chilly debut album.Bussey Building, SE15, SatBB