Halloween horror in Emmerdale: who will survive the car crash? Make way for Coronation Street’s fresh meat wagon because it’s rolling right into town. Just when the soap needed a little refreshment for the ladies (there are only so many times foxy mechanic Luke can be passed around), boy did it deliver – in the form of Ken Barlow’s grandson.Like any soap stud with impeccable heritage, Adam Barlow sped into Weatherfield in his flash red Jaguar. He’s got a touch of the Faith-era George Michael about him: all facial fuzz, swagger and a V-neck so deep you could get lost in there till teatime. Adam wasted no time strutting into Underworld and helping himself to a whisky, the favourite tipple of grandad Ken Barlow’s nemesis Mike Baldwin, who, lest we forget, is Adam’s dad. (His mum is Ken’s dead daughter Susan, fact fans.) On his way out, he bumped into pant-factory goddess Eva, carrying hangers full of frillies. “You almost dropped your knickers,” he smirked, as she stripped him of his camel coat with her eyes.If Adam is the modern-day Mike, fellow newcomer Daniel is the new Ken: brainy and bookish with hidden depths. Daniel came to visit Ken and suspicion was immediately aroused within the family over the appearance of this stranger. But it was soon revealed that Daniel is Ken’s long-lost son by Denise. You remember Denise? Ken’s hairdresser hook-up of yore. A brassy piece by all accounts, with a gob the size of the M60 and a talent for dropping her drawers. “Him and Grandma Deirdre were on a break,” explained Peter, helpfully. And so begins an almighty power struggle among the Barlow offspring, where the smart money, as ever, is on Tracy.It wasn’t all fun on the cobbles this month. Gail’s telly thief-turned-on-off-love interest Michael came to a sad end after finding out that the most manipulative man in soap, “Call me Pat” Phelan, was about to make off to Mexico with the deposits from the flats he’d been flogging. While Gail was at home cooking a romantic roast, off Michael went to snoop around the building yard. It’s not that Phelan actually killed Michael, but cold-heartedly leaving him to die of a heart attack means there’s blood on his hands. And in his margarita.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharma police... Jai gets between George and Kerry. Photograph: Andrew Boyce/ITVIn Emmerdale, local firecracker Kerry was sacked by Sharma’s Sweets after a bungled attempt to seduce confectionery buyer George, whom she tried to convince to sign a deal on a load of tequila-laced chocolates. George looked sold when Kerry unleashed her twerking skills on the factory floor, but it all fell apart when she started to believe she was Hotten’s businesswoman of the year. “I might give the Kardashians a run for their money, but underneath this cleavage is a brain like a steel mouse trap,” she proclaimed, before sealing the deal in Bernice’s salon. Sadly, George is something of a player and when Kerry heard him putting the moves on bon-bon heiress Priya, she whacked him over the head with a chocolate Santa. Then got sacked, got hammered again and broke into Jai’s office. She woke up slumped on his desk covered in booze and sweets. And you thought your behaviour at last year’s Christmas party was bad?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bridal shower... Whitney and Lee’s not-so-big day. Photograph: BBC / Guy LevyDanny Dyer discovers he is related to two kings and Thomas Cromwell EastEnders had better be saving itself for an end-of-year bloodbath because it’s as boring as mince at the moment. Even Lee and Whitney’s wedding couldn’t rustle up any more drama than Lady Di eating the flowers. (Not actual Lady Di. The Queen Vic’s pug.) The bride was, ahem, radiant in absent mum Bianca’s old wedding dress, held together with a shoelace, while the groom had all the enthusiasm of a soggy sausage roll. Not that Bianca could be bothered to turn up. “She can’t get off the toilet,” was the official excuse phoned in.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Gray day: Linda Gray arrives in Chester. Photograph: Lime PicturesThank the soap lords, then, for Hollyoaks, where Nico the serial killer was toasted on Halloween after getting trapped when Cameron set fire to the funfair. Not that anyone stays dead for long round those parts. At the more fabulous end of the scale, Marnie’s mum Tabby arrived in town, even more snobbish and grand than her daughter. The best thing? She’s Linda Gray AKA ACTUAL Sue Ellen from ACTUAL Dallas. “It seems we have a lot to catch up on,” quivered Tabby, her sun salutations interrupted by the news that Marnie and her violent horror of an ex Mac are back together. As Tabby breezed into town leaving a trail of straight-talk, she became an instant ’Oaks legend. Linda Gray: worth the plane fare, and then some.