Six people have been arrested in east London as police and bailiffs broke up a protest camp backed by the Occupy movement which opposed the construction of a temporary Olympic facility on a green space.Local people, supported by some of those formerly based at the main Occupy camp next to St Paul's Cathedral, which was broken up six weeks ago, spent a fortnight camping on Leyton Marsh in an attempt to block the building of a basketball practice centre, which would be used for Olympic athletes preparing for matches which will take place at another venue inside the Olympic park in nearby Stratford.With construction of the training facility held up, the owners of the land, Lee Valley Regional Authority, were granted a possession order in the high court last week. Activists did not mount a defence, saying they feared being held responsible for costs if they were named as individual defendants.Bailiffs arrived at the site at about 7.30am and started to remove tents about two hours later, said Caroline Day, a local resident and member of the Save Leyton Marsh group. Most protesters left voluntarily but some refused, meaning police were called in.Scotland Yard said six people had been arrested for alleged public order offences. Officers attended "in support of bailiffs acting on behalf of the Olympic Delivery Authority and Lee Valley Park Authority to enforce an eviction and possession order," a police statement said."Police are dealing with a group of up to 30 people who are blocking access to the ODA site and refusing to move. Officers at the location have warned those people present that section 14 of the Public Order Act has been applied to them and sets the condition that the protest must move within a short period of time to allow access to the site."Day said that apart from the temporary loss of a public green space, locals were worried that the building was being erected without a proper environmental assessment, and that digging could unearth harmful substances. She said: "It's not just an issue of the loss of a green space, or the lack of consultation. We also have very real concerns for the safety of local people."Day added: "We will continue with our protest, in a peaceful way. We feel very strongly about the issue and will not be giving up."A spokesperson for the ODA said: "We regret that we have had to involve the courts and police to enable us to complete the building of a temporary training venue for which we have secured planning permission. Our concern has always been unlawful disruptive action preventing our contractors getting vehicles on to the site, and working."These setbacks have incurred extra costs to the taxpayer. We are legally obliged to remove the venue shortly after the Paralympic Games this summer and return the ground to its previous state."We confirm that we will do this by 15 October 2012. Local people will still be able to walk on the vast majority of the Leyton Marshes and the immediate Porter's Field area throughout the summer, and, after the temporary structure is dismantled, they will benefit from £65,000 of improvements to the area and its wildlife habitats, funded by the ODA."