Pierre Boulez at the BBC: Master and Maverick 8pm, BBC4A commemorative trawl through the BBC archive of Pierre Boulez, who died on 5 January. The irascible French composer and conductor had a long relationship with the Beeb, including a stint in the 1970s as chief conductor of the BBC Symphony Orchestra. Performances here include Boulez conducting works by Debussy, Bartók and Stravinsky, as well as his own compositions, which endure as ghosts of Boulez himself, resoundingly iconoclastic and uncompromising. Andrew MuellerThe Last Leg Goes Down Under 10pm, Channel 4Even though it’s yet another show offering an “irreverent take on current affairs”, The Last Leg is a fairly entertaining meeting of Josh Widdicombe, Alex Brooker and Australian comedian Adam Hills, who, so far as orthodoxy prevails, is the show’s anchor. Hills has a fairly combative persona, and in this two-part travelogue he aims to prove he is the product of his environment. He has devised an arduous itinerary: a 3,000-mile journey from Darwin to Sydney, through the outback. John RobinsonMusic Moguls: Masters of Pop 9pm, BBC4In the final part of this ace little series, PR man Alan Edwards considers the “invisible hand” of publicity in pop: whether clothing the Stranglers in punk threads, breaking Suede (18 music press front covers before their debut album), or – with added poignancy – quietly facilitating David Bowie’s 2013 comeback. Elsewhere, Alan McGee recalls the unseemly circle-jerk of Britpop and New Labour, and Taylor Swift signposts PR’s possible future: targeting individual fans like some personalised virus. Ali CatterallSpin 9pm, More4Great news for Anne Visage, the candidate of the left, as she triumphs in the first-round vote, with Mr Spin himself, Simon, beaming by her side. As much as we rejoice in the apparent demise of DeLeuvre, we’ve watched enough Borgen to know that the old dog will probably have some fairly tried and tested old-school tricks up his sleeve. Hope for change and a brighter future? Pah! Get ready to chew on some harsh realities, and pragmatic new alliances. JRJamie And Jimmy’s Friday Night Feast8pm, Channel 4Cheeky chaps Jamie Oliver and Jimmy Doherty bring in another batch of mouthwatering foodie telly. This week’s celebrity is Fearne Cotton, who gets a lesson in how to cook fish tacos. Jamie knocks up a surf’n’turf gumbo, while Jimmy builds a coffee-bean roaster out of an old barbecue. There’s a chance to campaign, too, as Oliver and Doherty stand up for food that doesn’t get a look-in because it’s not fashionable enough, hoping that the nation will take the great British herring to their hearts once again. Hannah VerdierMr Selfridge9pm, ITVHarry whisks the press pack off to Biarritz on a jolly to announce his empire’s UK-wide expansion. He brings Mae and a bunch of friends with him to liven things up and ensure that the 20s roar noisily so that we’re left in no doubt of the time period Mr S now inhabits (a familiar Downton Abbey trick). Look, a flapper girl decadently flicking her bob! Back in London, Gordon has the dull job of minding the shop and preparing for AA Milne’s visit to promote his latest Winnie the Pooh story. Julia RaesideTransporter: The Series9pm, SpikeJason Statham-less it may be, but this small-screen adaptation of the popular action franchise compensates for his absence with a fortified truckload of alpha maleness. This week, an old friend asks for Frank’s help in rescuing an MI6 agent, prompting a highly dangerous trip to Libya. Soon, Frank finds himself caught in a battle between two warring factions for a potentially catastrophic bio-weapon, while the truth behind Rob’s work becomes muddied. Poor Frank could do with a weekend off. Gwilym MumfordFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keanu Reeves in John Wick.John Wick (Chad Stahelski, 2014) 4.15pm, 8pm, Sky Movies PremiereKeanu Reeves’s black-clad John Wick is quietly mourning the tragic death of his wife, before a bunch of Russian gangsters start messing with him and the adorable puppy she left him. It’s time to dust down those near-superhuman kill-skills honed through his hitman years. A relentlessly violent revenge thriller that has crunchy support from Michael Nyqvist (of The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo), Willem Dafoe and Ian McShane. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportInternational T20 cricket: Australia v India Second match in the three-game series. 8.35am, Sky Sports 1Premiership rugby union: Northampton Saints v Wasps Top-flight clash, held at Franklin’s Gardens. 7pm, BT Sport 1FA Cup football: Derby County v Manchester United Championship outfit Derby look to upset United. 7.30pm, BBC1PGA golf: Farmers Insurance Open Second day of the event, held at Torrey Pines Golf Club in San Diego, California. 9pm, Sky Sports 4