In the not-too-distant past, TV comic book adaptations were a predictable beast. They would be brightly coloured, feature costumes too slavishly close to the originals, and every episode would end with our hero learning a valuable lesson.But now that all the classics have been adapted, often many times over, networks are peering into the dark corners of the medium – which is where the really interesting stories are being told. Here are some of the oddball adaptations to look out for:Legion      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Proper, no-idea-what’s-happening strangeness … Legion. Photograph: FOXIf you’re after proper, no-idea-what’s-happening strangeness, Legion’s the baffling show for you. Based on the Marvel comic about David Heller, a man who is either schizophrenic or the most powerful mutant on Earth – or, more likely, both – it is not only one of the smartest depictions of schizophrenia you’re ever likely to see, but also a great action mystery. It’s like someone whisked up the DNA of the X-Men movies then got David Lynch to spit in it. But although words like “mutant” are bandied about, don’t expect any X-Men to turn up. Showrunner Noah ‘Fargo’ Hawley has said that Legion is its own beast, so it will most likely ignore Heller’s comic-book father – none other than Professor Charles Xavier.The BoysWhen Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg announced that they were producing a series of Preacher, people scoffed, then were intrigued, then bloody loved it. Now, the two are turning their attention to another Garth Ennis comic, The Boys, a hyper-violent series about a government taskforce responsible for policing superheroes. Expect pitch-black comedy and ruthless piss-taking. Tek-Knight, for instance – a character clearly riffing on Batman – has a compulsive need to have sex with any orifice he sees, organic or otherwise. If you thought Preacher got dangerously near the knuckle, The Boys will go knuckle-deep. Powerless      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One long side-eye at DC’s lambasted films? Powerless. Photograph: NBCU Photo Bank via GettyUntil now, DC’s film and TV output has been entirely separate, but they’re dipping their toe into a shared universe with Powerless – a sitcom about an insurance firm who specialise in covering damage caused by superheroes. With a cast including Vanessa Hudgens, Community’s Danny Pudi and the always excellent Alan Tudyk as Bruce Wayne’s cousin, Powerless could basically be one long side-eye at the overblown carnage of DC’s lambasted films.RunawaysA group of teenagers discover their parents are members of a sort of evil Avengers, and do a runner – all while trying to deal with their own unusual powers, including being psychically linked to a dinosaur (sure, why not). Most exciting of all, it’s being made by Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage – the creators of The OC. If anyone can do great, smart teen TV, it’s these guys.The Defenders      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   As if it wasn’t already cool enough … Sigourney Weaver in Marvel’s The Defenders. Photograph: Sarah Shatz/NetflixWhile DC’s shows often do special crossover episodes, Marvel is doing a whole crossover series, featuring Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage and Iron Fist (plus Sigourney Weaver as the villain, in case it wasn’t already cool enough). The storyline is being kept under wraps for now, but it seems a fair bet that it will address the whopping unexplained hole The Hand were seen digging under New York in season two of Daredevil.And before the Defenders debuts later this year, we’ve got Iron Fist landing on Netflix, in which Finn Jones plays the final member of the Defenders – a wealthy New Yorker who vanishes as a child and returns as an adult, with newfound mystical punching powers. Punisher, who debuted on Daredevil played by Jon Bernthal, is also deservedly getting his own spin-off series.Sex CriminalsNot as bad as it sounds. Sex Criminals is a surprisingly sweet sort-of romcom about two people who have the power to stop time when they orgasm. Matt Fraction’s series may still be some way off, but with uplifting messages about sexual confidence and diversity, plus a character who can create manga monsters out of cum, this is just the sort of TV we will wait for. ScarletThe co-creator of Jessica Jones, Brian Michael Bendis, has another of his female characters heading to TV. Focusing on a rebellious woman who kickstarts another American revolution after her boyfriend is killed by a crooked cop, Scarlet takes a hard look at the corruption that has sunk into institutions once considered sacred, and decides that enough is enough.Riverdale      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The dark side of Archie Comics … Riverdale. Photograph: NetflixRiverdale is based on that most American of comic books, Archie Comics. But Archie alone – with its decades-long love triangle between him, Betty and Veronica – just wasn’t weird enough for today’s market. The new show has thrown in a murder and a bunch of mystery to small-town life. Y: The Last ManThis series from Brian K Vaughan, who wrote for Lost as well as comic series including Saga and Ex Machina, has been fighting its way to the screen for years. After a film version starring Shia LaBeouf fell by the wayside, it’s now with FX. The book centres on Yorick, the last man on Earth after a virus wipes out everyone else with a Y chromosome. FX have announced Michael Green as showrunner, but he’s currently busy with American Gods, so it might be a while before we get to see this.Deadly ClassAn 80s action-comedy set in a high school for assassins sounds great even before you mention that Joe and Anthony Russo (the brains behind Community) are producing it. Hopefully it will prove to be a cross between John Wick and The Breakfast Club.Riverdale starts in the US on the CW on 27 January, and in the UK on Netflix on 27 January. Legion will be on FX in the US on 8 February, and in the UK on FOX on 9 February. Iron Fist is on Netflix on 17 March. Powerless will debut on NBC on 2 February, but doesn’t have a UK broadcaster yet. The Defenders and Punisher will both debut on Netflix later in 2017.