The Night Manager is as sexed up as television drama comes. In Tom Hiddleston and Hugh Laurie it has bona fide international stars; in John Le Carre’s source novel it has a pedigree of untouchable grandeur. The palette is as sumptuous as one of our hero Jonathan Pine’s beautiful hotels. And then there are the credits. A nuclear explosion morphs into a cocktail glass, missiles are reformed as a pearl necklace: Daniel Craig’s failure to stalk into view in a tuxedo and take a potshot at the camera can only have been because someone concluded he wasn’t sharp enough.It always seems to be spy thrillers that get the fat end of the licence fee payer’s wodge. Like The Honourable Woman and London Spy before it, The Night Manager channels all that money into a smoothly accomplished atmosphere of alienation and dread. (Why can’t anyone make something expensive and cheerful?) Tom Hiddleston’s Pine is a classic of his type, a professionally blank English gent making his way in Egypt. He works in a grand hotel at the epicentre of the Arab Spring, where he soothes terrified guests with free cocktails and flirt-broods shamelessly with Sophie, beautiful mistress to the scion of a family of moneyed Cairo thugs, Freddie Hamid. “I want one of your many selves to sleep with me tonight,” Sophie tells Pine later, after the trouble’s started, and Pine (he’s a surname sort of chap) winces a bit in the manner of any post-Hugh Grant toff who knows that if he really must have sex with a beautiful woman it behooves him to do so in a manner of distant apology. So why is he obliged?Night Manager director Susanne Bier: 'I'm always wary of fantastic-looking actors' Well, Pine and Sophie – or Samira, as we learn she’s really called – have been brought together by their mutual adventures in amateur espionage. Samira has snaffled a stock list of horrible weapons from Hamid. It’s a comically overblown range, a kind of greatest hits of grisly ways to kill people, from rocket launchers to chlorine gas to sarin to F-22 raptors to actual napalm. Pine has photocopied it and given it to an old diplomat pal from his army days. (Obviously he was in the army.) These acts of foolhardy heroism start a chain of events that leads to Samira’s murder. It’s a senselessly brutal crime – committed in the company of a small and ridiculous looking dog – that sets Pine on a revenge mission against Laurie’s Richard Roper. Roper, who Samira calls “the worst man in the world”, is the epitome of the charming 24-carat bastard, and he’s also the one selling those weapons to Hamid, despite his unimpeachable reputation in London. We don’t know whether Roper ordered Samira’s murder or not, but he certainly doesn’t seem likely to have done a lot to stop it.Money for old RoperIt’s Laurie’s vulpine performance that gives The Night Manager its force once the smell of money has worn off. But we barely see him for the first 40 minutes – a delayed gratification trick that’s always worked like magic on me, ever since we spent the whole first episode of The West Wing waiting impatiently to meet Josiah Bartlett. Roper does open the show, it’s true, via a YouTube clip in which he talks benignly of his humanitarian work. (Any lingering suspicions that he might actually be a legitimate philanthropist are dispelled when you clock his company’s name, IRONLAST, which might as well be rebranded EVILBASTARD for all the use it is as disguise of his intentions.) But after that he’s off screen for as long as we’re in Cairo, only pitching up four years after Samira’s death. By this point we’re in Zermat, where a damaged Pine has taken himself to try and forget, and perhaps reflect on why exactly no one ever gives him a day shift. Roper strides into Pine’s new hotel, his lip caught in a permanent patrician curl, a feral violence barely below the surface, and the show bursts into life. Does Roper know who Pine is, or is that suspicion just his finely attuned radar for obstructive good guys? And is it just me or does their shared screen time thrum with the eroticised formality of Niles and Daphne in Frasier? The prospect of our antagonists circling each other in this state of refined anxiety for the rest of the series is enough alone to keep me interested.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Refined anxiety or eroticised formality? ... Hugh Laurie as Roper and Tom Hiddleston as Pine in The Night Manager Photograph: Mitch Jenkins/BBC/The Ink FactoryHot Pine BlingTom Hiddleston’s Pine isn’t quite so seductive without his opposite number. Hiddleston is as charming and attractive as ever, but to the viewer the blankness that plays to Samira as alluring multiplicity just comes off as practiced disinterest. For a hospitality professional who spends most of his time arranging for mints to be put on pillows, he’s peculiarly comfortable with the business of international espionage. I kept wishing Hiddleston would let just a little more panic cut through that dashing veneer.John le Carré on The Night Manager on TV: they’ve totally changed my book – but it works On the other hand, he was in the army, and as he points out, he’s been around the block. (“I’ve seen worse,” he tells a colleague, after braving the tumult of a city in revolution so he can get to work early.) And as the embodiment of the show’s atmosphere of paralysed establishment glamour, Hiddleston is the business. When the noble beast beneath that accommodating English exterior begins to make itself known, I do find the righteous revenge he’s intent on wreaking on Roper compelling. At one point Samira asks why he won’t sit next to her in the rural bolthole where they flee from the hotel, and he explains that it’s out of respect. “Is that why you came all the way out here? To respect me?” she asks, and you had to pity her for her incomprehension of how a Le Carre hero works. Oh yes, Samira, he’s going to respect you all right. You’re going to be respected all night long.Also, I quite like the shirts he wears off duty, so if anyone can point me in the direction of his tailor I’d be grateful.Know your enemyWhen the episode ends, Pine is giving Angela Burr, the intelligence operative played by Olivia Colman, a bunch of discarded phone sims he’s retrieved from Roper’s hotel room, and steeling himself for the fight with supervillainy that lies ahead. I hope to see him thwart international arms dealing without dislodging that little tie pin. But there’s plenty of other stuff to bring us back. Is Pine going to respect Roper’s supermodel girlfriend right under his nose, and is she an accomplice or a dupe? Does Roper, in fact, intend for that to happen? Will the Hamid family resurface and bring us back to Cairo, or were they just the motor of Roper’s greater wickedness? And who was it who tipped off the Roper-Hamid organisation to the leaking of the stock list? The Sir Humphreys portrayed by Douglas Hodge and a splendidly plummy Russell Tovey look like the prime suspects, but I’m wondering if goody-two-shoes Angela isn’t also a contender. Not that I can see any narrative logic to that, but it wouldn’t half be a turn-up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hiddleston as Pine and Olivia Colman as intelligence operative Burr. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryNotes and observationsOlivia Colman was probably the most underemployed of the big name leads. I guess she will come to the fore in episode two, and obviously, since Colman is our official favourite proper British actress (honourable mention to Maxine Peake), that will be a very good thing. I rather hope she’s going to come into conflict with her Rev husband Tom Hollander, who gets some great lines as Roper’s slithering fixer Corcoran, and who you suspect would take a rather less pious approach this time around.It’s excellently sinister when Roper refers to his wares as combine harvesters. It’s that kind of self-conscious sleight of hand that makes the scene in which his mask will, presumably, finally slip my most anticipated moment of the show.If I mock the idea of the hotel’s night manager as an agent of intrigue it’s from a position of affection. I love the job as a metaphor for watchful alienation in an impermanent world. What it lacks in plausibility it more than makes up for in symbolism.That poor stupid dog didn’t ring true for me. Samira was too serious a person to own such a ridiculous animal. Also, what happened to it after she died? I really hope the Hamids didn’t get hold of it.Pine’s army origins haven’t really been explored, and I wonder if more flesh will be put on the bones of the horrors he saw at war. Since that’s given as one of his motivations for taking on Roper (and since it would be a nice way to spend a bit of that lavish budget) I wouldn’t be surprised if we get some flashbacks to Iraq before long.This really is a footling point but I need to get it off my chest. When Sophie was about to go and then remembered the “one more thing” she needs to ask Pine, my eyes rolled violently. I wish people on television would do a little mental check before they leave a room that they’ve discussed everything they came in for. It doesn’t make them look terribly capable.