Celebrity Island With Bear Grylls 9pm, Channel 4As part of Channel 4’s Stand Up To Cancer campaign, Dom Joly, Towie’s Lydia Bright, a grumpy chap from The Hotel and “selfie queen” Karen Danczuk are among those abandoned by Bear Grylls on an island in the Pacific. Within 24 hours, tears are soaking into Ollie Locke from Made In Chelsea’s pink Ralph Lauren, and Aston from JLS is in a deep funk. And not the good, James Brown kind. After four days, things start to get rather more serious. Ben ArnoldYes, Bear Grylls can make fire. But could he survive in the kitchen? | Tim Dowling Scotland and the Battle For Britain 8pm, BBC2The second part of Andrew Marr’s timely film looks back at the 2014 vote on Scottish independence, which looked to have settled the matter for a generation. However, with the Brexit referendum result ignoring Scotland’s Remain majority, the issue is alive once more, with Scots “scunnered” with Westminster. Marr talks to key political players, while also visiting new economic strongholds such as Dundee, hub of the video games industry. David Stubbs Poldark 9pm, BBC1Telly’s top torso is going tunnelling as he tries to expand his mining business and fend off growing financial troubles. As Poldark broods as only he can, Demelza continues to hide her pregnancy and stare wistfully off into the middle distance while Elizabeth gives her husband the glad eye. And, in lighter news, flirty newcomer Caroline bubbles along nicely with Dr Enys, stealing the limelight with the old fishbone-stuck-in-her-throat trick. Hannah Verdier From Poldark to Bieber, there's a male body ideal but is it problematic? Elton John Live at Hyde Park 9pm, BBC2Elton flirts with credibility – recent albums have seen him join forces with the likes of Leon Russell and he namechecks his favourite younger writers – but it’s letting his hair down at events like this where you probably get the best of him. Schmaltz he saves for Vegas and indoors. Outside, he totters on, plays the Bitch Is Back and things develop nicely from there; the lack of a mandate other than to entertain proving good news for everyone. John Robinson Paralympics 2016 Closing Ceremony 10pm, Channel 4Another quadrennial jamboree of multi-sporting action draws to a close, and with it another successful performance from Team GB, so much so that keeping that self-effacing national stereotype ticking along for another four years might become a tad tricky. Rio’s Maracanã is the venue for an undoubtedly grandiose send-off, with Clare Balding, Adam Hills and Jonathan Edwards joining thousands of athletes. Mark Gibbings-JonesOzzy & Jack’s World Detour  9pm, HistoryEleven years on from MTV’s landmark reality soap, the male Osbournes reunite for a fairly slapdash travelogue. With a wink at This Is Spinal Tap, things kick off in England with the pair questing to find Stonehenge with the help of a semi-reliable GPS. As father and son bicker and bond while navigating B-roads in a Range Rover, it plays like a metal cover of The Trip, especially when they stop off at Britain’s oldest pub for fish and chips. Graeme Virtue Richard E Grant on Ealing Comedies 7pm, GoldAmiably unfocused film nostalgia in a new series that’s fun enough to forgive the suspicion that its creators thought it would make itself. Episode one begins with Passport To Pimlico, before hopping back to Gracie Fields and George Formby and then the steadying hand of producer Michael Balcon. Whisky Galore!, bombsite romp Hue And Cry and A Fish Called Wanda also feature, as Grant presents what could be a pleasant pub conversation. Jack SealeFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Passport to Pimlico Photograph: REX/Courtesy Everett Collection/REXPassport to Pimlico(Henry Cornelius, 1949) 8pm, GoldGet your cockles warming with this Ealing comedy, in which the inhabitants of Pimlico discover an obscure 15th-century charter that makes their manor part of Burgundy. So, in austere postwar London, Stanley Holloway and his neighbours come over all bourgeois, instituting petty little rules, such as customs controls on the tube line. A vintage delight, with none more sparkly than Margaret Rutherford’s excitable history professor. Paul Howlett Thank You For Smoking(Jason Reitman, 2005), 11pm, GoldThis satirical assault on the smoking lobby is lightweight compared to Michael Mann’s weighty The Insider, but nevertheless makes for a sly comedy. Aaron Eckhart is heartless PR man Nick Naylor, who wheels and deals to get ciggies back on the cinema screen. Fags aren’t as bad as  your parents say, he tells high-school kids, and hangs out discussing body counts with his chums in the booze and armaments industries. PHA Royal Affair(Nikolaj Arcel, 2012), 11.55pm, BBC2Arcel’s rather hefty but compelling chunk of Danish history is set in 1770, when German doctor Johann Struensee effectively ruled the country while treating King Christian VII’s mental illness. Mads Mikkelsen smoulders as the good doctor, becoming Queen Caroline Matilda’s lover and trying to introduce social reform. It makes for gripping political drama, like an 18th- century Borgen. PHToday’s Best Live Sport Paralympics 2016 1pm, Channel 4 Wheelchair rugby and athletics on the 11th and final day in Rio.Premier League Football: Crystal Palace v Stoke City 1.30pm, Sky Sports 1 Alan Pardew’s side takes on Mark Hughes’s, before Spurs v Sunderland (Kick-off 4.30pm).NFL: Pittsburgh Steelers v Cincinnati Bengals 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2 Action from the AFC North clash at Heinz Field.