Izzy Bizu, On tourA bit like Amy Winehouse, Izzy Bizu grew up listening to classic vocalists – and indeed to Winehouse herself. In truth, though, for all the post-Amy soul arrangements, dramatic ballads and Later… With Jools Holland action she’s been hooked up with so far, Bizu seems of a very different tradition to the singer. Undoubtedly a good technical performer, she’s also at this stage a slightly self-conscious one, a little polite for the genre in which she seems to be being asked to compete. Rather than the domain of the big ballad and the broken heart, she appears – to judge by the material she’s released so far – to be much more at home in an upbeat pop number. The likes of Ella Eyre and John Newman developed their chops within the Rudimental hit factory; perhaps skipping this step may mean that Izzy Bizu takes a little while longer to find her own thing.The Scala, N1, Wed; Night & Day, Manchester, Thu; King Tut’s Wah Wah Hut, Glasgow, Fri; touring to 30 JanJRRhiannon Giddens, On tourPlaying old-time music doesn’t necessarily make you unsophisticated. A one-time member of the Carolina Chocolate Drops, a string band who played a slick take on old folk and blues standards, Giddens is a multi-instrumentalist, a great singer, and can – as she did a couple of months ago – deliver a devastating, original-language version of La Vie En Rose with a minimum of fuss. An obvious candidate to participate in the recent New Basement Tapes project (in which musicians interpreted unrecorded Bob Dylan lyrics) alongside Marcus Mumford and others, Giddens is a bit coffee table, it’s true, but it’s a table with a characterful finish. Above all, she’s got good taste. A superb interpreter of historic songs, like the storied Last Kind Words Blues by Geeshie Wiley, she brings her chosen material right up to date, while leaving some of its original mystery well intact.Old Fruitmarket, Glasgow, Wed; The Royal Concert Hall, Glasgow, Fri; touring to 5 FebJRJohn Grant, On tour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Grant.He made music in his youth, but John Grant was clearly saving his best stuff for mid-life. He has arrived there with some of the aches and pains, and plenty of the bruised worldview that his time of life might entail. The consolation is that he now has all of the musical chops, and all of the self-knowledge that he might need to effectively process his train of thought. It’s sweary, it’s confessional, and it’s clearly working out extremely well for him. Musically, Grant has been profligate: moving from lush orchestrations (his debut) to obscene electropop (Pale Green Ghosts), to arrive where he is now, the melancholic medical journal that is current album Grey Tickles, Black Pressure.The Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, Tue; Mandela Hall, Belfast; Wed; Cork Opera House, Thu; touring to 12 FebJRThe Hafler Trio, LondonA collaborator with Nurse With Wound, Autechre and others, Andrew M McKenzie, really the only member of the Hafler Trio, performs his first UK show in a decade at St Leonard’s Church this afternoon. Over the years, the drone musician has developed a personal doctrine for improvement and creativity. Just navigating his site, Simply Superior, feels like an induction into a bizarre spiritual contract: it revels in gnomic language, and the text is part self-help, part cultish tract, his workshops and practices focused on meditational exercises. This performance, beginning at 3:33pm, will see a trilogy of albums performed in surround sound: 2002’s Cleave: 9 Great Openings; No Man Put Asunder: 7 Fruitful And Seamless Unions; and No More Twain, Of One Flesh: 11 Unequivocal Obsecrations from 2003. Proceedings end at 6:33pm.St Leonard’s Church, E1, SatJAThe Mingus Big Band, Leeds & London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mingus Big Band with Sue Mingus, 2008, NYC Photograph: Jimmy KatzCharles Mingus, the jazz composer regarded by many as the real heir to Duke Ellington, once said: “My music is evidence of my soul’s will to live.” The implications of that remark are borne out by a legacy that embraces some of the most powerful jazz created in the 20th century. Twelve years after his death in 1979, Mingus’s widow Sue and his former sidemen convened a regular Thursday residency in his honour at New York’s Fez Under Time Cafe. Almost a quarter-century later, the band have become globetrotters, and sympathetic new recruits have emerged to play this capriciously complex, orchestral jazz in the creatively inexact manner its composer would have wanted.Howard Assembly Room, Leeds, Sat; Ronnie Scott’s, W1, Mon to 30 JanJFThe Devil Inside, On tourIf you include the one-acter that was part of Scottish Opera’s Five: 15 series of commissions seven years ago, The Devil Inside is composer Stuart MacRae’s fourth opera. Like his last, the South Bank award-winning Ghost Patrol, it has a libretto by novelist Louise Welsh, and is another collaboration between Scottish Opera and Music Theatre Wales. The starting point is a short story by Robert Louis Stevenson, The Bottle Imp, set in the Pacific islands. It’s a Faustian tale about a magical bottle that can grant its owners everything they desire, on condition that afterwards it is sold for less than they paid for it. In The Devil Inside, it’s updated to the present day: the single protagonist becomes two friends who stumble across the bottle, whilst MacRae and Welsh promise that their ending is less glib than Stevenson’s original.Theatre Royal, Glasgow, Sat & Tue; King’s Theatre, Edinburgh, Fri & 30 Jan; touring to 18 Apr AC