What was the first record or cd you bought? Being born in 1953 I was exactly of the generation to grow up with the music of the Fab Four. I collected their singles in purchases of three – costing 6/8d meant you could get exactly three for a pound. The release of Ticket to Ride was the moment of greatest excitement for me and my friends down in the school locker room.What was the last piece of music (written or recorded) you bought? All Bruckner’s Symphonies, conducted by Günter Wand. Bruckner’s mind was surely one of the oddest in classical music, yet I find the way he wrote in blocks completely fascinating, and I wanted an authoritative version. I knew Wand could deliver this, since I had followed him at the Proms, not least in 2001, when at the age of 89 and unable to walk to the podium unaided, he stood to conduct both Schubert’s Eighth and Bruckner’s Ninth.How do you listen to music most often? On the concert platform and in the editing suite. That really is enough. For relaxation I look at paintings.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What’s your musical guilty pleasure? Slushy Victorian church music. It all started with Stainer’s I saw the Lord. Then I got my hands on the epic setting of the Evening Canticles by Hugh Blair in B minor. Renaissance polyphony has never seemed quite the same since. Bohemian Rhapsody is one piece the Tallis Scholars will all join in with in the bus. Our 'fandango' is really something. If you found yourself with six months free to learn a new instrument, what would it be? The piano. I have always fiddled about on it, but never learnt it, while being deeply impressed by the great virtuosi. Surely I could do a little better than I do.Did you ever consider a career outside of music? Doing what? Working for the Foreign Office: travel, languages, cultures, representing something worthwhile to people I don’t know. It’s what I do now, only what I do ends in music rather than talk.If you had to pick one work to introduce someone to the wonders of classical music, what would it be?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tallis’s 40-part motet Spem in alium. It’s got everything outside bedroom farce, and is so difficult both to perform and understand as a listener that it should last a lifetime of study.Which conductor or performer of the past would you like to have worked with? Felix Mendelssohn. If there was anyone in the past who could have grasped what renaissance polyphony was capable of, it was him. He did it for Bach. Why not for Palestrina?What’s the most unusual place you’ve performed? A botanical garden in Fez, Morocco. We stood under a huge tree, singing Byrd’s Four-part mass in full concert-dress in the middle of the afternoon, to people doing yoga on the grass in front of us. The tree dropped things on our copies, the sun beat down on the nape of my neck, but we never flinched. I often reflect that British choirs are like military units in their discipline and professionalism: this was proof positive. Bach is now held to be on a footing with Shakespeare – neither can do any wrong We’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why? To the Chapel Royal when Byrd and Tallis were singing there. What were rehearsals like? What did they care about in the music? What did the best choir in the land sound like in those days?What’s the most overrated classical work? - ie is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to? Bach’s Christmas Oratorio. I think it is very good music, but I do also think it is overrated. Bach is now held to be on a footing with Shakespeare – neither can do any wrong. Everything by them is by definition perfect. In fact they were human beings who made mistakes. In a strange way it diminishes them to think they didn’t.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What is the best new piece written in the past 50 years? Freddie Mercury’s Bohemian Rhapsody. If there is one piece all my colleagues in the Tallis Scholars will join in with in the bus, it’s this. Our “fandango” is really something.Peter Phillips’ latest recording with The Tallis Scholars is released on 28 October. They perform in Symphony Hall, Birmingham on 13 December and at London’s Temple Church on 16 December.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 