Just outside the pretty village of Waltham Saint Lawrence in Berkshire lies the sprawling Tudor park of Shottesbrooke. The estate meadow is huge and verdant, and rolls east towards a dark wood a quarter of a mile away. Bordering the field is a tightly woven boundary of young trees, half-felled and intersected with lean branches sticking up from the ground. “We did this one a couple of weeks ago,” says Clive Leeke, parking his pick-up truck alongside it.He produces a small sack from under the truck’s tarpaulin cover, pulling a curved blade from inside. It’s maybe 8in in length. “A billhook.” He reaches in again. “And a bosher.” He’s holding a rudimentary mallet fashioned from a small piece of tree trunk, a protruding branch acting as a handle. “It’s more commonly known as a mell, but it’s what we bosh the stakes in with,” he laughs. “That’s the basic kit. It’s a pretty low start-up cost for a business, really.”Leeke, 60, is a hedgelayer, a role he’s performed for the past 25 years. His interest in the craft was first piqued at the age of six, after seeing a pleacher – the colloquial term for someone doing the job – working on a roadside in rural Oxfordshire. It was a rare sight in post-war Britain, when hedgelaying was a largely dormant industry. His family moved house shortly afterwards, and “lo and behold, there were some hedgelaying tools left in the shed”. A well-laid hedge has ecological, as well as aesthetic, benefits After school, he took up horticulture and garden design as a way of using his creative skills. Working freelance, his summers were busy, but the cold winter months were quiet. “Hedgelaying just came back to my mind,” he says. In the winter of 1989, he took a place on a six-week course – found in the back pages of an Oxfordshire newspaper – and began badgering his gardening clients into letting him lay their hedges. He set up his company, Hedgecraft, a year later. Leeke now works across Oxfordshire, Berkshire, Hampshire and London for clients such as the National Trust, the Arboricultural Association and the Royal Estate, as well as taking private work.His entry into the industry was typical; training under a professional – he himself teaches to competition “craftsman” level – and apprenticing is still the best way of pursuing the job as a career. Formal qualifications are largely non-existent: the National Hedgelaying Society runs an accreditation scheme, but it’s not obligatory.Preceded only by dry-stone walling, the craft has been practised across Britain, almost unchanged, since Roman times, but peaked with the mass partitioning of common land in the 18th century under the 1773 Enclosure Act. “It’s something that’s been really actively done for 300 years,” Leeke says. “The only difference now is that we occasionally use a chainsaw.”  Styles of hedgelaying vary across the UK – there are around 60 officially recognised by the society, of which 30 are Welsh – but the basic principles are the same. Living trees – usually maple, hazel, blackthorn, or dogwood in Leeke’s case – are partly cut, bent and woven together horizontally, creating a barrier that strengthens as it grows. Leeke specialises in two: the Midland, a robust style devised for mixed farming and livestock control; and south of England, a neater, pruned form that commonly borders the grasslands of the Berkshire and South Downs.Wandering cattle are less of an issue than they once were, but a well-laid hedge still has ecological, as well as aesthetic, benefits. When a pleached hedge begins to take form, Leeke says, “you’re giving a whole new range of birds a nesting site, as well as creating a motorway for invertebrates to travel along”. There’s been this huge resurgence of interest … Poldark probably helped a bitClive Leeke The main work is done between November and May, when the bare hedges are laid. Leeke and his small team – he takes on two seasonal assistants each year – try to achieve the “magic length” of a chain (22 yards) a day, though bad weather is an inevitable hindrance. Leeke charges £200 a day and tends to work five days a week for the entire season – making around £25,000 in the laying period. An apprentice, on the other hand, can expect to earn around £10 an hour when starting out.The workload is lighter in the summer, when the boundaries are trimmed, weeded and shaped, but Leeke supplements his work with coppicing (he manages a small area of hazel woodland, where the stakes and binders for his hedges are produced), pond maintenance, and teaching courses in hedgelaying and scything. “There’s been this huge resurgence of interest,” he says of the latter. “I’ve got 28 courses this summer.” A pause. “Poldark probably helped a bit.”Fundamentally, the appeal of the job lies in its cultural and practical legacy; a well-tended hedge can easily outlive its maker. “It’s about standing back after you’ve done the work and thinking: ‘We’ve achieved something that’s actually going to stay there’. It’s alive,” he says. “A living creation.”