Alejandro González Iñárritu, who won the best director Oscar on Sunday for The Revenant, has defended himself in the face of criticism for appearing not to applaud the costume designer Jenny Beavan as she made her way to the stage to pick up her award.In a widely-circulated clip – the Vine has been viewed over 38m times – Iñárritu is among a number of attendees who are shown not to be clapping, instead regarding Beavan with what many have interpreted as disdain.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jenny Beavan makes her way to the stageIn a statement issued to the Guardian on Thursday, Iñárritu called such speculation “mean-spirited and false”. “I think Jenny Beavan is a masterful costume designer and very deserving of the Oscar for Mad Max: Fury Road,” he said. Iñárritu also sent a gif showing that he did clap later, as Beavan made her way up the steps to the stage, where she was presented with the award by Cate Blanchett.Gif courtesy Alejandro González IñárrituIñárritu continued: “By editing and omitting the full reality and suggesting I felt anything but admiration is mean-spirited and false. What you don’t see in the 10 second clip being circulated is my applause for Jenny as she ascended the stairs to the stage.”He director concluded: “I’ve learned a lot this awards season … that I should never cross my arms when I am sitting down.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Iñárritu’s film took three Academy Awards at the ceremony – best director, best cinematography (for Emmanuel Lubezki) and best actor (for Leonardo DiCaprio). It missed out on the best picture award to Spotlight. The director of that film, Tom McCarthy, was another of those in the audience apparently appearing not to applaud at any point. Representatives for McCarthy have not responded to the Guardian’s request for comment.Beavan, who celebrated her second Oscar win on Sunday (the first was for A Room with a View), has subsequently said she didn’t mind the response.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beavan makes her way to the stage. Photograph: Sky Movies Oscars HD“People don’t have to clap for you,” she told the Hollywood Reporter, “they don’t have to like the work.” She added: “[H]onestly, I didn’t clap the whole time – your hands get tired. We had done a huge amount of clapping by that time.”Beavan also explained the thinking behind her unconventional outfit: “I am British with a slightly rebellious character; I always have been. But, actually, in truth … I’m short, I’m fat. I really would look ridiculous in a gown. What I was actually wearing at the Oscars was sort of an homage to Mad Max – a kind of biker outfit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The back of Beavan’s jacket. Photograph: AARON POOLE / AMPAS / HANDOUT/EPA“I thought, ‘If I can’t beat them, or if I can’t sort of join them, then why not try doing something a little bit fun?’ And George [Miller] loved it. The [vegan] leather jacket had the Immortan Joe symbol on the back and I was just giving a little wink to Mad Max.”She also said she was pleased with the response to her clothing choice: “I think my Oscar outfit succeeded to some extent because I think the majority in the audience seemed to like it. And if I ever happen to get nominated for an Oscar again, I’ll probably wear something a little more in line with the film. But it will always be trousers, because there is absolutely no way I would frighten the LA natives with my legs.”