Jumping from one persona to another is second nature to an actor. But what happens if you are simultaneously playing two parts: one the most unscrupulous, lascivious woman on television; the other, the best-behaved and most cruelly put-upon?Tuppence Middleton, star of both War and Peace and Dickensian, appears on British television screens this winter in two entirely different guises. She plays the manipulative seductress Hélène Kuragin in the BBC 1 adaptation of Tolstoy’s Russian epic and is also to be seen on the same channel as the guileless Amelia Havisham, victim of an evil fortune hunter, in screenwriter Tony Jordan’s episodic Victorian series.“Even though they are both period dramas, they are so different in their nature and in the nature of the characters I am playing,” she said, explaining she had not known they would be broadcast at the same time. “Miss Havisham, I suppose, is quite repressed and contained, while Hélène is very liberated, seductive and manipulative. It was really appealing that they were so different.”Andrew Davies, who adapted War and Peace, has said Middleton’s Hélène is “the naughtiest woman on TV at the moment”, yet in Dickensian she is also arguably the most vulnerable woman on TV. The high-profile roles have propelled Middleton, 29 next month, into the first rank of new British acting talent, particularly since viewing figures for War and Peace have grown in America.But the actress has a cautious approach to impending stardom. She was grateful, she said, for having learned her craft quietly in her 20s and does not know how her talented younger co-stars in Dickensian, Joseph Quinn, who plays her brother Arthur, and Ben Starr, who plays Captain Hawdon, have handled the pressure of tackling their first professional roles. “Joe is only 21. I don’t know how I would have coped at that age. When I went to drama school at 18 I wanted to do everything straightaway, but as I have got older I realise that helps me to imagine what a character is dealing with.”The contrasting parts of Hélène and the young Miss Havisham, she said, have also offered her the luxury of building up a character slowly.“I started off doing film in my first few years but I am thankful to television because you have a longer stretch to develop a character, even in a supporting role, than in a film, where you might have perhaps just five scenes. In these two television shows you have such a big story arc to follow, it is a gift.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aml Ameen and Tuppence Middleton in a scene from Netflix’s Sense8. Photograph: Murray Close/NetflixMiddleton grew up in Clevedon, near Bristol, and was named “Tuppence” after her mother’s childhood nickname. So far this month she has managed to avoid recognition off screen thanks to another TV role that demands peroxide blonde hair. She is filming the second series of Sense8, a Netflix series written by Andy and Lana Wachowski and J Michael Straczynski, in which she plays Riley Blue, an Icelandic DJ. Despite her change of hair colour, photographers tracked her down earlier this month at an event with her new boyfriend, Robert Fry, 35, an abstract painter. There is no comparison to being in Russia and feeling that sense of culture that they have thereTuppence Middleton Middleton believes in research and so re-read Great Expectations before making Dickensian and completed War and Peace before travelling to Lithuania, Latvia and Russia for filming. She had already read a third of Tolstoy’s great work for pleasure three years ago and then finished it off over four days in a hotel in Brussels once she knew she had the part.“With Miss Havisham I also have the resource of Great Expectations, although my character is obviously a different age,” she said.Her executive producer on Dickensian, Belinda Campbell, is impressed by her “clever and subtle” portrayal. “While Tuppence’s Miss Havisham is a million miles away from the vengeful woman of the novel, it is possible to see in her nuanced portrayal the elements which might lead to the character she becomes,” she said this weekend.Middleton auditioned for Dickensian in a break from filming War and Peace and knew she must be bold.“Everyone reads the same words in a book, but has a very clear picture of their own. We see what happens to Miss Havisham to make her end up that way, but she is essentially a normal young woman of the times from a wealthy family.”Costume has been important in finding both characters, Middleton said. “It helps transport you into that world when you are in costume and on the set of Dickensian it was completely immersive. It is much harder on a real street that has been blocked off and you can see the cars behind.”The experience of working in Russia has also clearly left a big mark.“There is no comparison to being there in Russia and feeling that sense of culture that they have there. I always really loved Russian literature and I think Tolstoy’s writing is full of a sense of melancholy and humanity, so it seems really modern.”