Star Wars: The Force Awakens loomed large at the 11th annual Oscar Wilde awards on Thursday, held at the offices of JJ Abrams’s production company Bad Robot in Santa Monica on 25 February. The awards honor film and TV figures who are either Irish or have tenuous Irish connections.Has James Corden cracked America? The Force Awakens film-maker compered the event, which honored his film’s breakout star, Daisy Ridley. Awards were also given to Lenny Abrahamson, the Dublin-born Academy Award-nominated director of Room; Irish actress Sarah Greene (for Penny Dreadful); Northern Irish band Snow Patrol, who also performed a set; and The Late Late Show host and “honorary Irishman” James Corden. “My little girl who is five is still confused about what I do,” said Abrahamson upon accepting his award. “I said, ‘I make movies,’ and she said: ‘What ... like Star Wars?’ Not quite like Star Wars at the box office, love, but still important.”Corden used the bulk of his speech to poke fun at Abrams for not casting him in The Force Awakens, joking that the role of Rey that eventually went to Ridley was initially offered to him. “They rewrote the part as a woman,” said Corden. “It’s moments like this that make you think: fuck it, I’m going to host a late night talkshow.”Snow Patrol lead singer Gary Lightbody also denounced Abrams for not inviting his band to take part in the making of the blockbuster, recounting how they had begged to play storm troopers in the film. “Daniel Craig got the call – but not us!” said Lightbody. “Maybe one day he’ll be big.”He then went on to sincerely thank Abrams for “giving us back Star Wars in a way to love it all over again”.Introducing Ridley, Abrams likened the actor to her Star Wars character.How Daisy Ridley went from bit parts to lead in Star Wars: The Force Awakens “The other day we were talking, and she told me she’s going to record a song with an unnamed person, let’s just say massive superstar person,” said Abrams. “And on Sunday, she’s presenting an Oscar at the Academy Awards. Then on Monday, she’s flying back to London to star in Episode VIII. She looked at me and she said in the sweetest Daisy-est way: ‘What is my life?’ Daisy’s life is a bit like Rey’s. She’s on a crazy adventure – and it’s just beginning.”Ridley, visibly nervous, read her entire speech, admitting she “feels like a fraud” standing in front of her peers, given her remarkably good fortune. “I’m pretty new to this,” she warned, before going on to thank her friends and family for supporting her on her journey this past year. “I can’t believe what’s happened since that year you called me,” Ridley said to Abrams. “I was clueless as to what it takes to make a film. Your set was the stuff of dreams.”