“Fifty years from now, keeping people imprisoned by medical care against their wishes will be considered as misjudged as incarcerating patients in Bedlam,” says Lu Spinney.On 19 March 2006, a week after his 29th birthday, Miles Kemp, her eldest son, sustained traumatic brain injury after a snowboarding accident.Should minimally conscious patients be asked if they wish to die? by @mocost At first in a coma, he was left in a minimally conscious state (MCS), or minimally and inconsistently aware. Though he was unable to speak, his family intuited his limited facial expressions, rare movements and moods. Immobile, partially sighted, doubly incontinent and in severe pain because of spasticity, he was, says Lu, totally dependent. Beyond the High Blue Air, her heart-searing memoir, pits the boundless energy of her funny, sporty, intellectually questing son against the entombing constraints of his MCS existence and the family’s eventual despair at being unable to release him from it.For more than five years, she, her second husband, Ron, her first husband, David, and their children – Will, Claudia and Marina – fought first for his recovery, then for his partial recovery and then, “when I gradually came to accept that his life was one long experience of unbearable suffering”, for his death. “That was the only gift I could give him,” says Lu, 67.But the law forbade it. “I failed him. I couldn’t make his situation better.”Less than a year after the accident, Ron was diagnosed with stage four cancer (he died 16 months later). The double tragedy was overwhelming. “You could never tell when the pain would come,” says Lu. “It was like a tsunami. You had to let it crash over you.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Miles’s life was torture’ … Lu Spinney at home. Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianMiles, due to move home from hospital, was transferred to a care home in south London while Ron died at home. When Miles began to indicate that he did not want to keep going, Lu privately confronted that fact: “I thought, how can he want to continue? His life was day-long, night-long torture. But I assumed there was nothing we could do except to continue doing everything we could to make his existence more comfortable.“The most painful thing was imagining him, in his moments of awareness, feeling so profoundly lonely, unable to communicate, totally dependent on other people for every single aspect of his life. He was just a ghost of himself.”One day, Lu writes, she is in the care home car park when an inhuman sound, the “deep, bellowing roar of a creature in distress” terrifies her. It is her son. She runs to him. He stares at her, “beseeching, demanding my help, but I am powerless, too. I cannot help him.  “I knew, undoubtedly, he was aware and I saw the mixture of anguish, anger and pain on his face.”        Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A young Miles, Lu Spinney’s son. Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianShe also now knew that Miles could outlive her by decades. But the family could not commit the unspoken act of love that would once have been unconscionable to each of them. Then, one night, his sister Claudia announced that Miles had conveyed his wish to die. She had pledged to help him. “She said she was willing to go to prison.”How did Lu respond to her daughter’s offer of euthanasia? “I thought, what a relief for him if she could do it. It is what he wants. But I also thought, she can’t do it. And of course one cannot, even though by now the doctors, carers, everyone who understood Miles, knew it was what he wanted. He was in severe pain. All he could experience was a slight alleviation of his symptoms. Oblivion was preferable.”  Lu momentarily entertained the idea of the family administering the deadly syringe together. “Then it would make the headlines and the issue would be addressed.”Unexpectedly, a consultant asked if the family had considered applying to the Court of Protection for permission to withdraw nutrition and hydration, legalised for some PVS (persistent vegetative state) cases following the ruling on Tony Bland, a victim of the Hillsborough disaster, in 1993. Lu, who belongs to Dignity in Dying, a pro-assisted dying group, was electrified. “I thought, oh my God, maybe this is possible. There was no dilemma at the prospect. It was a moment of light – but then it vanished. I knew the law. But I decided to take advice.”She consulted Robert Francis QC, who had represented the NHS trust involved in the Bland ruling. “I thought he would say it was out of the question, but he was prepared to take the case on.”An application for withdrawal on behalf of M, another MCS sufferer, had been lodged, which offered hope. The case could take up to a year. Lu was advised to await the outcome. Not knowing where to turn, she rang Dignitas. “I was desperate. I just wanted a sympathetic ear. I cried and cried.”She describes how Miles occasionally showed a kind of pleasure in life: his sense of humour was apparent, he displayed concentration at his brother’s wedding and a response when his sister-in-law placed his hand on her pregnant belly. Why would she want to end his life, given these moments? “Yes, they were meaningful, but in the context of him being in terrible and constant pain, unable to speak, see, move, eat, drink, while being doubly incontinent. Meaningful is relative. “If, as a mother, you believe without any shadow of doubt that your child is suffering profoundly, would you want to release him from that?”The application on behalf of M was denied. The logic is flawed, insists Lu. “You can get permission for the life of someone with PVS to be ended because it is considered in the person’s best interests and their life is devoid of value. Well, not only was Miles’s life devoid of value but, at times, he was aware that it was – and aware of his predicament. For a person to be PVS is an absolute tragedy but, as it is currently understood, they are not aware of their condition.”Death by withdrawal would have been its own kind of torture, says Lu. “It is entirely barbaric. The law is cowardly. It allows for the slow starving of a human, albeit pain-free, but not a humane, quick, final injection of barbiturates, as you would give your dog. “I believe we are all entitled, if it’s possible, to both live and die with dignity. We were certain Miles did not want to continue. He made it clear that what we had been fighting for was now against his wishes. He existed in a painful limbo between living and death and by prolonging this we were working against his best interests, happiness and comfort.The real story behind The Diving Bell and the Butterfly “Unfortunately, Miles had not taken out an advance directive – we had discussed The Diving Bell and the Butterfly,” she says, referring to the memoir written by Jean-Dominique Bauby by blinking in 1997, as he lay in hospital with locked-in syndrome. “Miles said then he would never want to be sentient and unable to communicate. Through the humane efforts of doctors and paramedics, Miles survived his accident, but he wasn’t given a life that was in the end bearable.“Medical skills and technology are now so advanced that a life can be ‘saved’ – as in, death avoided – but they are not yet able to give the person back a meaningful life afterwards.”Does she wish, then, that Miles had not survived? “Retrospectively, and only retrospectively, I absolutely wish he had died at that moment. Because he would not have suffered. That’s the only reason. We would have suffered and never, ever understood it would have been better that he died. “If Miles had died leaping into the air, doing the thing he just loved doing, he might have had one moment of panic. And then nothing.”In the event, Miles died naturally from a respiratory infection. “We did the best we could for him,” she says emphatically. “Miles celebrated everything about life, every little blade of grass. Now we celebrate Miles.”• Beyond the High Blue Air by Lu Spinney is published on 5 May by Atlantic Books, £14.99. To order a copy for £11.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846 Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.