In the early 1950s, my husband John Mead, who has died aged 89, was working in the registrar’s office at Durham University. Feeling emotionally and psychologically fragile, he sought help and was encouraged to see the bishop of Durham, Michael Ramsey (who later became archbishop of Canterbury). John thought that he might have a calling to be a priest; Ramsey, remarkably for the times, suggested that he should go into analysis. This, to quote John, “transformed my life”.John returned to London and went into analysis with William Kraemer. In 1960 he got a job with the National Coal Board, where he met EF Schumacher, author of Small is Beautiful and founder of the Intermediate Technology Development Group (now Practical Action); this was another turning point. His next job, after he had completed a psychology course at LSE, was as a lecturer in social psychology to nurses and social workers at what was then South Bank Polytechnic. While continuing his career, and after our marriage in 1978, he started to train as a Jungian therapist; in 1986 he took early retirement and established a private practice as a therapist.John was born in Blackheath, south-east London, the youngest of three children of Lawrence, a barrister, and Violet (nee Tennent). His brother, Lawrence, the apple of the family’s eye, would later be killed in Burma in 1943. John was sent away to prep school at seven and then went to Canford school in Dorset.His family was transfixed by the events of the 30s; Churchill became a hero to John and the Munich Agreement was anathema to them all. When John left school in 1943 he volunteered to join the Royal Engineers. He was posted to India in 1945, between VE and VJ day, and enjoyed being a junior officer in the Sappers, building Bailey bridges and constructing culverts under roads in India, Malaya and Burma. In 1947 he went to Balliol College, Oxford, to read PPE. After graduating he got a job at Durham University.John’s final 20 years were dominated by the issue of climate change. Few visitors to our home in London escaped being drawn into a discussion, often heated. John was uncompromising, relentless and direct and he sometimes made people feel uncomfortable. We moved to Highgate, north London, from Balham, south London, seven years ago and together founded the Highgate Climate Action Group to raise public awareness locally about the threat of climate change and to highlight what needs to be done.John was an extraordinarily intelligent, thoughtful and sensitive man. His memory for poetry and prose was prodigious and he could produce an apposite quote for any occasion.His last few years were difficult, as he became increasingly frail, but he will be remembered with love by those who knew him.John’s sister, Ann, died in 1991. He is survived by me and by his niece, Sarah, and nephew, Andrew.