This is a photograph of all that has gone wrong in humanity's relationship with nature. Amid the rocky vastness of Mount Everest, a long line of people stand in the snow in a bizarre pedestrian traffic jam. Four people recently died on a single day on Everest: on that day 150 climbers made the ascent. It has been claimed that human traffic jams contributed to the tragedy, which seems only too likely looking at this picture. But as well as helping to explain those deaths, it is a picture of how profoundly we are failing to have any kind of decent respect for our world: how our romance with nature has become sick and twisted.Britons are currently looking back at 60 years of history. The popularity of the Queen's diamond jubilee surely has less to do with reverence for majesty than a recognition that Elizabeth II's reign spans 60 years of history: thinking ourselves back to its start, we get a perspective on a period of radical change. As it happens, one of the most memorable events at the start of the Queen's reign was the "conquest" of Everest by a Commonwealth expedition. On 29 May 1953 Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary became the first human beings who are ever known to have stood on the summit of the world's highest mountain.It is instructive to compare today's photograph of an ant-like line of climbers with Hillary's picture of Tenzing Norgay on top of Everest. In the 1953 photograph one man stands alone on the snow-clad summit, seeming almost on the edge of space itself as a deep, dark blue void surrounds his thickly clad form. This image of the solitary explorer of lofty mountain realms has its chilly feet in early 19th century Romanticism: Tenzing Norgay is alone on the mountain, just like Caspar David Friedrich's Wanderer above the Sea of Mist in the 1818 painting that perfectly expresses the Romantic affinity for remote heights.Mountain climbing as a sport grew out of the Romantic movement. Sir Walter Scott's poem Helvellyn tells of his own solitary ascent of the Laklelands peak and meditates on the death of a hiker there, whose body was guarded by his sole companion, a faithful dog: such images of distance from the everyday crowded world – and of lonely death – are integral to the myth of mountaineering still very much alive in tales such as Touching the Void.This photograph mocks that romance. It shows an Everest that has merely become an overcrowded destination for extreme tourists who can afford to pay from 10 to fifty thousand dollars for something different and exotic. An ascent of Mount Everest is no longer the achievement at the edge of possibility that it was back in 1953 on the eve of the space age. If we want to know why so many people are preparing to nostalgically relive the early 1950s this weekend we might contemplate this high altitude tailback and reflect that a great deal of innocence has gone from the world. The picture of Everest's numerous ascendants reveals not only the excess of commercialised adventure tourism but the mind-warping impact of technology: why on earth do we believe there should be "progress" in ascending Everest? That this of all things should become easier and more accessible?We believe it because we believe everything is becoming easier, faster, and more democratic. Technological advances, better clothes, better oxygen supplies, make what once took years of planning and a nationally sponsored expedition possible for anyone with the cash – we assume. Nature, from being a terror, has become a tame toy in the modern imagination.Which is, of course, an illusion. Everest is not tame. The idea that it is controllable has been exposed once again as a spurious fantasy. Modern communications do not save you when you are too high for helicopters. The crowds queue past the dead and dying. This sad surreal image is not just about Everest but captures the delusions that hasten the world towards environmental catastrophe.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree