Keith Richards’ Lost Weekend 7pm, BBC4Keith Richards appears indestructible. But this time last year we thought that about Lemmy, Prince and Bowie. BBC4 has wisely determined that we must enjoy the venerable guitar-slinger while we can, and has handed him control of the channel for three days. As well as a fascinating interview with Julien Temple, look out for a curated selection of the culture that has informed this remarkable rock’n’roll outlaw. Phil HarrisonLabour Leadership Result 11am, BBC2Victoria Derbyshire presents live coverage from the Labour Party conference in Liverpool as the result of its leadership contest is finally announced. The outcome has been a near-certainty for months, the process farcically protracted. But can a party whose PLP and membership/leadership have been at loggerheads find a way of working together, or will this week see the airing of further mutual recriminations leading to an eventual split? David StubbsThe X Factor 8pm, ITVControl your excitement X Factor fans, for tonight sees the first Six Chair Challenge. This weekend, the acts must sing in front of a real live audience before the judges decide who goes through to the next stage. Expect a tense moment or two as Mrs Osbourne, Louis and the gang make their minds up about who takes those hallowed seats. It’s worth watching for the chance of some panto-style controversy from the panel, all highly experienced in the ways of the Factor. Hannah VerdierWalking Through Time 8pm, Channel 4Around 1.2bn years ago, a vast meteorite hit Scotland. But where exactly did it land? You’d think this would be obvious but, as paleontologist Dr Tori Herridge explains, time and shifting tectonic plates can cover up a lot of evidence. This deep-time variation on the Walking Through History format works a treat, both because it has a fascinating scientific detective story to tell and because Herridge is adept at bringing such tales to life. Jonathan Wright8 Out of 10 Cats Does Countdown 9pm, Channel 4New series of the word-wrangling panel show, with guests including David Walliams (AKA all the Carry On films stuffed into one suit) and Jonathan Ross (who brings along some cat nappies as a mascot). Isy Suttie is in Dictionary Corner alongside Susie Dent, Jon Richardson has brought a Ouija board to assist him (“at various points I may go into a trance-like state”), and there are two faintly rude-sounding anagrams for you to untangle. Ali CatterallAlcatraz: Search For The Truth 9pm, BlazeBlaze is US network A+E’s first free UK channel (think a more outdoorsy Dave), and this is among its first docs. The Anglin brothers were sent to “the rock” for robbing a bank with a toy gun in 1960, escaping with another prisoner, Frank Morris, in 1962. They were thought to have died in the attempt. Now their nephews present evidence that suggests they survived, and may still be alive. Despite its reality TV feel, this is an absorbing tale. Ben ArnoldThe Gardens of Pompeii 8pm, Sky ArtsSince its burial by Mount Vesuvius in 79AD, Pompeii has existed in collective memory as the definition of desolation. This film reminds us, however, that Pompeii was not merely a living city, but one especially famous for its glorious flora; Pliny the Younger recorded 41 varieties of pears alone. In fact, the gardens were part of the reason for the city’s pre-volcano status as a preferred playground for ancient Rome’s hedonistic aristocrats. Andrew MuellerFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A creepy, shadowy twilight chiller … I Walked with a Zombie. Photograph: Ronald Grant ArchiveMonsters(Gareth Edwards, 2010, 11.25pm, Film4A sci-fi romance about a space capsule that has crashed in Mexico, spawning enormous alien beasts. Photojournalist Scoot McNairy reluctantly agrees to escort his boss’s daughter (Whitney Able) through this hostile territory to safety. It’s a well acted, boy-meets-girl story (with added monsters) scarily realised, thanks to Edwards’s smart use of the mini-budget. Paul HowlettLeaving(Catherine Corsini, 2009), 1.25am, BBC2There’s a little frisson of Lady Chatterley about this seductive French drama. Set in upmarket Nimes, it stars Kristin Scott Thomas as Suzanne, who is unhappily married to the vicious Yvan Attal and tempted away by sexy Spanish handyman (Sergi López). It edges towards melodrama, but Thomas is as mesmeric as ever. PHI Walked With a Zombie(Jacques Tourneur, 1943), 2.20am, BBC4From the days when zombies were a rare sight comes horror master Tourneur’s finest midnight hour, as the voodoo drums call up cursed souls in the Caribbean. Frances Dee plays nurse Betsy, caring for a strangely ailing Jessica (Christine Gordon) and coming to realise the awful truth: “She’s alive … yet dead! She’s dead … yet alive!” as the posters gleefully put it. A creepy, shadowy twilight chiller. PHToday’s best live sportPremier League Football: Manchester United v Leicester City, 11.30pm, Sky Sports 1 Coverage of the top-flight fixture from Old Trafford. Arsenal take on Chelsea on BT Sport 1 at 5pm.Live Super League: The Qualifiers 12.25pm, Sky Sports 2 Hull KR v Huddersfield Giants (kick-off 12.30pm).Live Fight Night 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2 Anthony Crolla v Jorge Linares at Manchester Arena.