It’s a rare quality of friendship when you acquire an instant nickname for a new mate.We were instantly “Nub” and “Plum”. Me Nub, for my mangled left index finger; Plum for Mike and his always slightly reddened face.That was Mini Tet at the start of May ’68, when the media took heavy casualties – eight killed in a week, plus a dozen wounded. We had an instant, stoned, brotherly rapport. A communication in short syntax borrowing from each other’s drift. We understood the same madness, the noir and the glamour of it all. Mike had already survived Tet and Khe Sanh. Michael Herr, author of Dispatches, dies aged 76 Mini Tet brought the band of brothers back to light. A hard core of photographers, writers and a few TV folks that were regulars in the field who understood the fear and the horror, yet who could still groove on its edge. Mike spoke of our voice in the argot of the epoch, its syntax and nuance, the lines that still haunts us to this day. The same lines that were etched into our consciousness from Apocalypse Now and Full Metal Jacket.Apart from the combat belt with obligatory water bottle, he packed little save for a small notebook into which occasional nuggets were scribbled. And a Zippo for the always reassuring doobie or ciggie.Did we really traipse down that mountain through a minefield stoned, in the dark at Ba Xoai special forces camp? Blew the A-Team dudes away. Did we really attend a Cambo strikers wedding, clicks away, travelling back and forth in a 3/4 tonner with hardly a weapon, the whole team pissed?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Page on a 3/4 tonner, on the way to the wedding of the Cambodian commander of Ba Xoai special forces camp, 1968. Photograph: Michael Herr      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mike Herr on the same trip, sitting with the Cambodian bride. Photograph: Tim PageWe chugged up the Perfume river atop a barge full of 155mm shells, clung to the side of a hovercraft. We goofed around at the war until the incoming made you as straight as needed.As he said, “like snails on the edge of a razor blade”. The war only got wackier, even more deadly, and his little notes caught each shift in the nuances of the insanity. We wore the man’s green and yet we were able to mock it and see the mess from another point of view. It endeared you to the grunts and made officers nervous: the new voice of reason. But then he always had that compassionate rephrase for the victims: the Vietnamese themselves.By ’69 we were all back in the Big Apple. Mike burnt out from the ’Nam, struggling to keep perspective on his writing. I was lying hemiplegic in a hospital on River Side East. A landmine had gone off three metres in front of me as I went to aid other mine victims. Ended up DOA, requiring nine hours of surgery to make life feasible. A long haul to recovery. Somewhere in there, Plum appeared with a bound, hand-corrected, typed copy of Colleagues, the quintessential chapter from Dispatches that expands on the Band of Brothers, the Bao Chi, the mateship of the hardcore among the media.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Page with Sean Flynn – Errol Flynn’s son, who disappeared in Vietnam – at a hovercraft base, Dong Tam, east of the Perfume river, 1968. Photograph: Michael HerrAs a piece in Esquire, it had been heralded – and here was the original grail. It was like a shot of adrenaline, a big awakening, with more mentions of my fate than I could fess to. An arrow pointing to recovery, a certain acclaim and fame. The attention needed to stimulate the therapy of getting back to work, back to life.Together we revisited Rock Is Hell for the now defunct Crawdaddy magazine, when we took to the heavy metal road with Aerosmith and then Ted Nugent, through the northeast states. The flame still flickered. In Detroit, Mike gave me the third copy of Dispatches that was ever printed.A long story later, Dispatches launched as a theatrical piece, in the round at the Cottesloe in the National Theatre on London’s South Bank. We were all back in London, drawn by the play; the theatre was packed for 52 nights to rave reviews. It was beyond gonzo to sit through performances of our former traumas. Meantime, the BBC was filming a doco titled Mentioned in Dispatches and Apocalypse Now was in the cinemas; our newfound notoriety was talk of the town. My ship had new credibility sails.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Clung to the side of a hovercraft’: Mike Herr and Sean Flynn at Dong Tam lagoon, near Hue, 1968. Photograph: Tim PageWe saw each other regularly, hanging and talking. South Kensington had good pubs and coffee. Valerie and baby Claudia – we would all go for Chelsea preambles. Enough old comrades were in country. The Dispatches oeuvre boosted me back to work, and a new platform. An exhibition, a return to Indochina and eventually my first tome. Mike only applauded – grinning each time the BBC replayed Mentioned in Dispatches, and when the book quickly sold 10,000 copies.The 100 best nonfiction books: No 9 – Dispatches by Michael Herr (1977) It was good that finally we were all making it, less troubled than before though still riddled with what I suspect now was PTSD – battling addictions and long moments of inexplicable torture.I went back to the ’Nam, and Mike wrote the screenplay for Stanley Kubrick’s Full Metal Jacket. He once said to me over a pint, “It’s my only sin”. (The battle for Hue was filmed in a former gasworks, in what was then the derelict East London docklands).He and the family left London back to the verdancy of Upstate New York, his roots a retreat to that sanity of Buddhism and the green. I moved to the Weald of Kent, only once getting close to Upstate for Requiem at the George Eastman house. Mike was snowed in 100 miles away.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mike Herr travelling light with special forces on a sweep outside the camp at Ba Xoia, 1968. Photograph: Tim PageWithout the platform he ascribed, that homage to our comrades in Requiem would never have come to pass. The synergy needed to keep the unfathomable spin a whirl would never have been generated. His energy will forever pursue us in his awesome words.• Tim Page appears at Byron Writers festival in Australia from 5-7 August, in sessions on documentary photography, war correspondence and stories from the road