The soaring number of flowers imported into Australia could pose a “considerable biosecurity threat”, a government report has found, and domestic growers have cast doubt over the effectiveness of the pest eradication regime.A report compiled by Dr Michael Bond, the interim inspector general of biosecurity, found that demand for fresh-cut flowers is rising in Australia, with 120m units of flowers imported in 2012.This figure is a huge increase on the 11.6m units imported in 2008, raising fears among some Australian growers that measures to tackle pests and diseases have not kept pace.Bond’s report found that the Department of Agriculture is generally dealing with this threat in an “appropriate manner” but that any failure could pose a “considerable biosecurity risk” to Australia.The report notes that some boxes of imported flowers are not “integrally packaged” but that little could be done to reject such consignments.The report recommends several areas of improvement, such as conducting checks after flowers are fumigated to ensure pests are killed and analysing risks associated with packaging flowers. The department has accepted all the recommendations.Andrew Cox, chief executive of the Invasive Species Council, said there is concern about the level of checks made in flower-growing countries such as Kenya and Mauritius, which provide certification to Australia when exporting flowers.“Imports have increased 500-fold in volume so surely there needs to be greater scrutiny. It needs to be looked at more closely,” he said. “There is a bit of random checking going on but they are taking on authority the certification provided by the exporting country. That whole system needs to be looked at.”Mark Grubski, who owns the Sydney-based Forest Glen Roses, said it was clear some imported flowers were not meeting the requirement of being treated with pest-killing chemicals before being shipped to Australia.“There is no way roses can arrive in Sydney in good quality after travelling for up to 72 hours without water if they’ve been dipped in weed killer,” he said.“Even if they avoid doing that, they are already half rotten and it creates the perception that flowers only last a day or so. Everywhere I go to sell my roses, in Penrith, the north shore, wherever, the question I get from the public is: ‘Will they last until tomorrow?’“I have to laugh because that’s the impression that cheap imports have given. Fresh roses should last up to two weeks.”Grubski said he was concerned about imports for business reasons: imports cost half as much as his Sydney-grown roses. He has reduced the number of rose bushes he grows from 100,000 to 25,000 in the past five years.“It’s killing the flower market here,” he said. “Easily 70% of the flowers you see in Sydney are imports. I’m not prepared to fight any more. It’s a lost battle.”An agriculture department spokesman said all flower consignments were fumigated with methyl bromide before being released from quarantine.“Quarantine officers are trained in procedures to inspect imported cut flowers for pests, disease symptoms and contaminants of biosecurity concern,” he said.“The department has stringent offshore and border controls in place to manage the biosecurity risks posed by cut flower imports. In addition, all cut-flower imports are required to meet the department’s import conditions and requirements for cut flowers.”