You know those moments when you’re watching a something scary but just can’t look away? That’s how it is for the cat in our lead video, whose eyes seem transfixed to a horror movie until the tension gets too much and it is forced to leap away. Perhaps the sinister strings on the soundtrack (which sounds like Hitchcock’s Psycho) got too much – or did it just spot a mouse?Also leaping around this week are James Corden and his Late Late Show guest Cyndi Lauper, who sing a parody of the 80s star’s hit Girls Just Want To Have Fun. The song, which attacks the gender pay gap, features lyrics including “Guys, if she’s mad, it’s not PMS – it’s cause you do the same job, but she’s makin’ less.” But who looks better in the pink wig? You decide.Our movie-related clips this week include a Screen Junkies “Honest Trailers” version of Deadpool – which, amazingly, features the movie’s star Ryan Reynolds. Another Ryan – Gosling – proves he’s a good sport by acting out a scene from his new movie The Nice Guys with a member of Jimmy Kimmel’s studio audience. Ryan Reynolds appears as Deadpool in Honest Trailer We also have vlogger Tom Syndicate sneaking onto the set of World of Warcraft – watch out for the bonus review of Captain America: Civil War (which he mistakenly calls “Avengers: Civil War”) at the end. And you can see footage of James McAvoy being transformed into his Charles character in X-Men: Apocalypse. It looks like having his head shaved was worth it – he’s a dead ringer for a young Patrick Stewart.Finally, we have stunning close-ups of a tornado in Colorado and an equally heart-stopping trailer for the Assassin’s Creed movie starring Michael Fassbender and Marion Cotillard, plus New Girl’s Zoey Deschanel explaining how producers built a bonfire to hide evidence they had invited the Kardashians to appear in a party scene with Prince. Enjoy.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Girls Just Want Equal Funds w/ Cyndi Lauper1) Girls Just Want Equal Funds James Corden with Cyndi LauperPay close attention2) Extreme up-close video of tornado near Wray, CO!Twisted stuff3) Cat Watching Horror MoviePsycho kitty4) Ryan Gosling Acts Out a Movie Scene with an Audience MemberNice guy5) Honest Trailers - Deadpool (Feat. Deadpool)Heavy meta6) SNEAKING AROUND A MOVIE SET!Just WoW 7) X-Men: Apocalypse | James McAvoy Becomes CharlesHairy situation8) When Prince Nixed The Kardashians, “New Girl” Execs Built A Bonfire - CONAN on TBSPurple flames9) Assassin’s Creed - Trailer World PremiereKilling it10) Piers Morgan Doesn’t Like Lemonade!Beyoncé backlash