‘Everyone talks about the soundtrack to their lives,” says Lauren Conrad in the opening of The Hills: That Was Then, This Is Now – the 10-year anniversary special of the reality TV hit that screened over the weekend. And during its six-season run, The Hills itself was the backing track to the latter part of the noughties: it told the story of a zeitgeist and the nature of modern-day celebrity, and its legacy lives on in the structured reality genre that dominates TV schedules today.Created by Adam DiVello and Liz Gateley, the series blended a kind of aspirational drama with the “real lives” of its protagonists. Episodes were cut seamlessly together, with no acknowledgement of the cameras and no breaking of the fourth wall. There were full-season story arcs, mixed with single-episode ones – a fashion show or video shoot – which lent a strong narrative drive. While many of the shorter plots clearly betrayed the hand of the production team, the longer storylines – of faltering friendships and burgeoning romances – were the tales of real lives.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Whitney Port, Lauren Conrad and Stephanie Pratt at the 2008 MTV Movie Awards. Photograph: Matt Baron/BEI / Rex FeaturesThe Hills was born from Gateley’s previous show, Laguna Beach. Subtitled The Real Orange County, it was created to tell the “real” story behind Josh Schwartz’s hit teen drama The OC. Like The Hills, Laguna merged storytelling with reality to create a new kind of fiction, neither documentary nor drama, but something in between. The first series was narrated by Lauren Conrad, one of a group of kids who went to Laguna Beach High, and followed her as she hung out on the beaches of the OC during her senior year, drinking beers around bonfires, hiring out hotel rooms for fairly tame parties, and putting on fashion shows for charity. When Lauren announced she would be heading to Hollywood to intern at Teen Vogue, the producers were keen to follow.Reality TV is dead, ruined by reality itself Heidi Montag, a friend Lauren had made while studying fashion in San Francisco, was a shoo-in for her co-star. The small-town girl from Crested Butte, Colorado, seemed worlds away from Lauren’s haut monde, but she quickly adapted, and was ready to try her luck in Hollywood. The pair would share an apartment in the modest Hillside Villas, where, seemingly organically (though actually set up by the production team), they would meet Audrina Patridge, an aspiring model/actress/whatever. Whitney Port, meanwhile, had independently secured herself an internship at Teen Vogue, and would share an office with Lauren. With her long legs and sometimes dubious fashion choices, Whitney quickly became a fan favourite and would go on to star in her own spin-off reality show, The City.And so the scene was set for a series featuring sun-kissed girls in halterneck tops and oversized sunglasses, hanging out by the pool of the Roosevelt Hotel, sipping weak cocktails and gossiping about their inner circle. Their jobs acted as a cover for their actual TV-star roles, and had the added bonus of allowing them backstage at music gigs and fashion shows, where they would dress Lady Gaga or alphabetise showcards for Marc Jacobs.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hills, circa season six. Photograph: MTVYet as The Hills went on, the dissonance between what was shown on screen and what was happening off it became greater. The raging success of the show meant the girls were red-carpet regulars who appeared on the cover of Rolling Stone, while still maintaining the fiction that they were interns or receptionists. The reality became less and less real.Spencer Pratt, one of a long line of cynical reality TV manipulators, had wormed his way into the series by romantically targeting the cast, accompanied by Brody Jenner (stepbrother to the Kardashian sisters and half-brother of Kendall and Kylie Jenner – a family whose own inescapable reality show owes a debt of gratitude to The Hills). Spencer’s attempts to control the action of the show, ruining Lauren and Heidi’s friendship in the process, saw the series morph from an aspirational tale of Hollywood high life to an artificial, low-rent relationship drama.Spencer would go on to marry Heidi, and, in the special, Lauren admits that her awkward flirtations with Brody were encouraged by a production team who wanted her to have a “love interest”. Although the viewer is increasingly hip to it, this tactic is now de rigueur in much reality output, including The Hills’ British progeny, Towie, Made in Chelsea and Geordie Shore.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Love Island, whose romantic story arcs are inspired by ‘structured reality’. Photograph: Joel Anderson/ITVThese romantic story arcs, their reality obfuscated further by gossip journalism, have now seeped into traditional fly-on-the-wall shows such as Love Island. The likes of Big Brother were compelling for their unfiltered purity; the legacy of The Hills is that reality shows such as these are now constantly hampered – or bolstered, depending on your point of view – with the weight of fiction. In many ways, it’s the show that teed up our “post-truth” age.'I was heartbroken': former Miss Great Britain Zara Holland and others on their summer of reality TV Lauren left The Hills at the end of season four, and it limped on without her. While she used the special as an opportunity to publicise her successful career in design, Speidi, as Spencer and Heidi rebranded themselves, were sidelined, underlining their Z-list status. They have become a reality TV cautionary tale, as their blurring of on-screen and off-screen personas resulted in disastrous and psychologically damaging real-life decisions. Heidi would go on to have 10 cosmetic surgery procedures in one day, become estranged from her family, and embark on an ill-advised pop career, backed by her self-styled Svengali husband.The show ended in 2010 with a controversially meta reveal. As the camera lingers on Brody, behind him a set is pulled away, revealing a studio lot where the backdrop of the Hollywood sign is fake. It was the brazen celebration of a new era for reality TV that The Hills itself ushered in: one where reality no longer matters.