It's impossible to talk of the massacre of marsupials and football boots without mentioning David Beckham. Shortly after he dominated the news agenda with a foot injury (the great metatarsal worry of 2002), attention shifted to his kangaroo-skin Adidas Predator boots. Elite athletes had been passionate about the lightweight, buttery fit and the bounce of what sports brands call K leather. Football Federation Australia's reputed £28m pitch for the 2022 World Cup included several millions spent on a kangaroo-leather bound dossier.In 2003 Viva! (Vegetarians International Voice for Animals) launched a concerted effort to shame Beckham and other high-profile stars into kicking kangaroo leather into touch. In Beckham's case it worked: apparently Goldenballs has been wearing synthetic boots since 2006.Hypocritically, although major brands introduced synthetic versions for the mass market, the stars still prance about in K-leather versions. Attempts to justify this love include asking why we should campaign for kangaroos but not cows.For starters, kangaroos are not farmed; they are hunted by licensed shooters. Their slaughter represents the largest commercial slaughter of land-based wildlife on the planet. There is a code of conduct for hunters, but evidence suggests it's hard to enforce. In the region of 3m adult kangaroos and 855,000 joeys (the baby ones) are killed every year. You may hear about their pesky abundance, but conservationists are worried about declining populations in areas where culling is sanctioned. And I won't go into the brutal ways of killing the creatures here, suffice to say the Australian Wildlife Protection Council (AWPC) says the cruelty suffered by kangaroos is comparable to that meted out to Canadian harp seals and whales.But AWPC and Viva! detect reasons to be more cheerful. For the first time, there is now no kangaroo leather across the Adidas Predator range, and in Australia the "fall-back market" for kangaroo skin is disappearing as sports giants find alternatives in response to activist pressure. (Nike confirmed it was phasing out kangaroo leather last year.) Usain Bolt runs in his Puma Bolt Spikes which are made of a synthetic microfibre which "matches the characteristics of K leather" and creates a glove-like fit (with luck, this will be endorsement enough for your grandson). We should take these developments as a win, but the ultimate goal is still a worldwide ban.If you have an ethical dilemma, send an email to Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or visit theguardian.com/profile/lucysiegle to read all her articles in one place