Tonight at the Royal Society, London, around a dozen women will be presented with Suffrage Science awards. Organised by the Medical Research Council’s Clinical Science Centre, Imperial College, they honour women’s contributions to science and are timing to coincide with International Women’s Day. One of today’s awardees is Pippa Goldschmidt. She is being honoured for her work in science communication. With a PhD in astronomy, Goldschmidt is now forging a career in the literary world. Her first novel The Falling Sky about an astronomer struggling to come to terms with her past was runner-up in the Dundee International Book Prize 2013. Her latest project is editing the short story collection I Am Because You Are. These stories all take their inspiration from Albert Einstein’s General Theory of Relativity, which is currently celebrating its 100th anniversary. Having supplied a short story of my own to the collection, I caught up with Goldschmidt to ask her about the fine line between science and fiction.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I Am Because You Are book cover Photograph: Freight BooksWhy celebrate General Relativity with short stories?Einstein was a very imaginative scientist who frequently came up with ‘thought experiments’ – experiments that could never be carried out in real life, and yet could be used to make logical deductions about our world. He populated the abstract landscapes of his theories with people and familiar everyday objects such as trains, clocks and torches. This helped him (and us!) get to grips with the formidably complex ideas and their consequences.  It takes a truly creative imagination to come up with these thought experiments and they’ve always reminded me of short stories, so when I realised that the 100th anniversary of general relativity would fall in November last year, I thought that a suitable celebration of Einstein’s achievement might be an anthology of specially commissioned short stories. It also felt appropriate that this sort of celebration - through the medium of literature rather than science - would be somewhat outside the scientific orthodoxy - as was Einstein himself for much of his career. I approached a number of writers who were very enthusiastic and keen to explore the subject in a creative way. And we were very pleased to get backing for the project from the Science and Technology Facilities Council (the research council that funds astronomy in the UK) – they clearly recognise that stories about science are a good way of reaching out to the public.What can fiction bring to science?Science is too often a closed book for many people, they study it at school and are bored by it, or find it difficult or irrelevant to their lives. But fiction has this incredible ability to reflect and examine all aspects of the real world, and writing fiction about science is a great way of opening it up to new audiences, and helping to demystify it. Science is also heavily reliant on literary concepts, such as metaphors, to get its points across; we often hear the phrases ‘the Universe is like an expanding balloon’, or ‘DNA is like an alphabet’. So I think fiction and science have more in common with each other than may first appear.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Former astronomer turned author Pippa Goldschmidt will collect a ‘Suffrage Science’ award tonight. Photograph: Pippa GoldschmidtDoes fiction about science have to be more about the scientists rather than science?The challenge in writing about science lies in developing a story which can appeal to emotions as well as intellect. I think in particular it is difficult to write a story about physical sciences (as opposed to the life sciences) that is able to do that, because the subject matter is necessarily more removed from the human experience. It’s tricky to place particle physics or cosmology centre stage in your story – not impossible, but more difficult than, say, writing about genetics or medicine. So it’s easier to appeal to readers if you bring in the human element – the story of the scientists themselves as well as their work.The science has to be worked into the story so it helps drive forward the plot, it has to be more than a decoration.Is science the new history when it comes to fiction?Yes, I think it could be. One example of fiction about a difficult historical subject which has helped to convey that subject to a huge number of readers is Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s novel Half of a Yellow Sun, focusing on a group of Nigerian people and their experiences of the Biafran war. I love that novel and yet I really doubt I would have picked up a non-fiction account of that event. Historical fiction is rightly popular because it brings to life distant people and times and helps us understand them, and their influence on us. Fiction about science can do the same thing, because it’s ideally suited to investigating the inner lives of characters, showing what they think and feel, what motivates them, how they react to external circumstances, how they adapt to new challenges and cope with pressures and conflicts.I Am Because You Are, An Anthology of Stories Celebrating the Centenary of the General Theory of Relativity is edited by Pippa Goldschmidt and Tania Hershman (Freight Books).Stuart Clark is the author of The Sky’s Dark Labyrinth  trilogy (Polygon), and co-host of the podcast The Stuniverse (Bingo Productions).