Amazon PrimeI Love DickJill “Transparent” Soloway’s latest trick is this adaptation of the much-loved novel of the same title. Set in an oddball academic community in Texas, it tells the story of troubled couple Chris and Sylvère and their obsession with Kevin Bacon’s titular professor. The tone of simultaneously blase and needy middle-class American entitlement will be familiar to Transparent devotees.Available nowHalt And Catch FireAnyone in the market for more 80s period drama action in the wake of Stranger Things could do worse than taking a look at this compelling Amazon drama, which is beginning its third season. Set in the dawning era of the tech industry, one of its main plots this time concerns Donna and Cameron taking their software company Mutiny into the big league, AKA a comparatively embryonic Silicon Valley. If you feel like catching up on the first couple of seasons, they’re both also available on Amazon.Available nowPodcastThe Quietus PodcastPeerless music and culture website The Quietus has been working at a second (or third, if you count their record label) string to its bow for a while now. Their once-sporadic streamed radio show is now downloadable and pretty regular. And the site’s founders John Doran and Luke Turner are now regularly joined by well-chosen guests, recently including gone-to-seed funnyman Stewart Lee, artist Natalie Sharp and East India Youth William Doyle. A confident and increasingly indispensable cultural fixture.Available nowBBC3Getting High For God?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: BBC“Just an excuse for hippies to take drugs in the hills.” That was the slightly flippant Mawaan Rizwan’s initial suspicion about peyote in the first episode of this web series. However, as he spends time in the sweat lodge and wanders the beautiful countryside of the corner of Utah where peyote is legal, he asks himself a few searching questions. Is it God he’s after? Or just the experience of empathetic community? And is there really much difference?Available nowNight Tube: The First WeekendOn Friday 19 August, Transport for London finally got the 24-hour tube on the rails. BBC3 followed the first weekend’s action, doubtless secretly hoping for entertaining encounters with amusing drunks and some sort of gigantic technical snarl-up. The rest of the country might be shrugging apathetically but, for people in London, this is a big deal.Available from todayAll4The Only Gay Bar In The VillageWhy would a straight, middle-aged, teetotal family man open a gay bar in Strabane, a conservative Northern Irish border town? As this cheerful short documentary suggests, James McCarron simply saw a (debatable) gap in the market and went for it. The result was The Central, an establishment that’s become as popular with straight punters as it is with gay ones. “Was there a need for a gay bar here?” wonders one regular. “Probably not. But it’s changed the mentality of so many people.” Uplifting.Available now