The Vyne in Hampshire, in the care of the National Trust since 1956, has something of a split personality, comprising as it does the remains of a Tudor mansion, built for Henry VIII’s Lord Chamberlain, Lord Sandys, and an 18th century country pile, once the home of the vividly named Chaloner Chute, speaker of the House of Commons in the last Commonwealth parliament. Henry VIII visited it three times, twice with Catherine of Aragon – in its panelled Oak Gallery you can still see the pomegranates that were carved in her honour – and once with Anne Boleyn, whom Sandys, ever the diplomat, would later escort to her imprisonment in the Tower. Chute, meanwhile, commissioned John Webb, Inigo Jones’s most talented pupil, to provide the new building with a classical portico, the first of its kind to adorn an English country house; and his great-grandson, John, a friend of Horace Walpole, designed its Palladian staircase, an ambitious addition whose luxuriant appearance belies its relatively diminutive size.From where I’m standing, you can see both parts of the building with a single half-turn of the head, though not their contents, for I am high up, perched on the leadwork between its two roofs. If I lean over, I can touch the tiles, attached to ancient beams with only one pin, that have, on the Tudor side, lately been causing the Vyne’s custodians so much trouble (in 2014, the roof leaked so badly, the tapestries below had to be removed for safekeeping), while straight ahead is a brick chimney, standing at a drunken angle that is almost, but not quite, comical. It’s an amazing vantage point, the mottled engineering of the structures around me reinforcing the house’s extraordinary history better than any oil painting or marble bust ever could. But I can’t be too smug. This view is a privilege that will soon be extended to every person who visits the Vyne. When, early next year, a £5.4m project begins to replace the roof and straighten the chimneys, the Trust will not close the property, as it might once have done. Rather, it will incorporate a roof-height walkway in the scaffolding, around which members of the public, vertigo allowing, will be invited to walk at their leisure. There will also, for those without the mobility to climb stairs, be a lift.What, you might wonder, is the point of this? Wouldn’t it be better just to focus on the job in hand? But to ask such questions is to fail to understand the way the National Trust works in 2016. “It’s about telling the story of what we’re doing here,” says Stuart Maughan, the Vyne’s general manager. The story. These are words I hear again and again in the company of the Trust’s more devout employees (also: “offer”, as in “visitor offer”). Later on, after we’ve loitered in the Vyne’s Tudor chapel, where plainsong plays through speakers, the better to stoke the atmosphere, Maughan will take me outside to a small hut where visitors can buy and customise tiles for the new roof, thus contributing not only to the NT’s appeal fund, but to the long swell of history. At some date in the distant future, another general manager will consider one of these, worked loose by an autumn wind, and find it to be covered in drawings of rainbows and smiley faces rendered in marker pen. What he or she will make of it is anyone’s guess. Perhaps by then the Trust’s money-making schemes, if not its priorities, will be radically different in nature.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The north front of The Vyne, Hampshire. Photograph: Robert Morris/National TrustThe National Trust is, by any measure, an extraordinary organisation, inordinately rich and powerful and yet (mostly) greatly loved. Founded in 1895, its governance underpinned by several acts of parliament, it now has more members (4.5 million) than any other similar organisation in Britain – and, it goes without saying, four times more than all our political parties combined. Its income, generated from memberships, revenue from property and legacies, rose in 2015/16 by 5.7% to £522m, and while it this year spent more than it earned – £541m, part of a drive to catch up with a backlog of conservation costs – there is seemingly no cause for concern: its total assets stand at £1.13bn. In its ownership are 775 miles of coastline, 1,357 scheduled ancient monuments, and nearly 1,000 square miles of land including over 300 historic buildings, 59 villages and 61 pubs and inns. At this time of year, it has some 10,000 members of staff. Much more significantly, it also has 61,000 volunteers in its employ, enthusiasts young and (more often) old whose labour is valued at somewhere in the region of £43m.Recently, however, it has been dogged by bad press. Some of these stories are easily dismissed. Any large landlord is always likely to have among its tenants one or two who are disgruntled, and since when did Sir Roy Strong, the former director of the Victoria & Albert Museum, ever have anything good to say about the new, the modern, the innovative? (Most recently, he took against a cycle path planned for Croome Park, a Palladian house in Worcestershire; its landscape, he insisted, was designed by Capability Brown to be traversed only on foot, by horse, or “in carriages”.) But other stories have more credibility and thus the potential to damage: the healthy pay rises awarded to its executive board members; the plan, opposed by local residents, to fell trees on Winter Hill, near Cookham Dean, setting of The Wind in the Willows; the decision to lay on tours of Croydon and other “pop-up” events in an effort to appear “less stuffy”. There is a growing sense in some quarters that the Trust is distracted from its main purpose – conservation – and that in its determination to be inclusive, it is, for want of a better description, dumbing down. If no one ever came to look at these things, we wouldn’t be enriching the life of the nationDame Helen Ghosh, director general of the National Trust Above all, one row is refusing to go away. Last August, the Trust bought at auction land belonging to Thorneythwaite Farm in Borrowdale, which came with a flock of Herdwick sheep (the rare breed to whose conservation Beatrix Potter was so committed), but not the farmhouse itself, the property having been divided by the vendor into two lots. Two things about this purchase were striking and, to many of those who live and work in the Lake District, deeply worrying, not to say enraging. The first was the breaking of the historic bond between the farmstead and its land. Why, people wondered, had the Trust not bought both, and installed a tenant farmer, as at its other farms in Borrowdale? (There is, incidentally, only one farm in Borrowdale now that the Trust does not own.) The second was the sum the Trust had paid. The auctioneers’ guide price was £750,000 for the 303 acres of land, and £800,00 for the farm buildings. Why, then, had the Trust coughed up £950,000 for the land?The Trust insisted that it couldn’t afford to buy both, and had therefore prioritised the land, which includes important wildlife habitats and woodland. But others were not convinced. Couldn’t it see that by paying so much, no local farmer could have hoped to get a look-in? In the days after the news broke, the Trust was criticised publicly not only by the Herdwick Sheep Breeders’ Association and the Federation of Cumbria Commoners, but also by James Rebanks, author of the bestselling book, The Shepherd’s Life, whose family has farmed Herdwicks in Matterdale for several generations, and by Melvyn Bragg. Lord Bragg, a Cumbrian by birth, did not mince his words. “The National Trust.... behaved very badly,” he said. “It put in a bid which was way above that which was reasonable for the land, thus making it impossible for local farmers to get a look-in. It was a nasty piece of work. Had a billionaire bullied his way into this disgraceful purchase there would have been a deserved outcry.” The denunciations hit home. Anecdotally, some have resigned their memberships as a result.I’ve come to the Vyne for my jaunt on the roof, but also to meet Dame Helen Ghosh, the former high-ranking civil servant who has been the Trust’s director general since 2012 – and who finds herself the focus of much of the ire currently directed at the Trust. She grew up in nearby Farnborough, and knows the place well. Ghosh’s reputation, as it has been disseminated in the press, is for a certain kind of brusqueness; she is, they say, an overpaid nanny (her salary is £183,960) who always knows best. Is this fair? She agrees with me that the tone of these articles may have something to do with her gender. “There is a strand in the rightwing press that is perhaps more critical of women leaders than of men,” she says. “I discount for that.” But it also has to be said that her manner is – how to put this? – edged with condescension. Five minutes into our conversation, she tells me about her first-class history degree from Oxford, as if this alone should settle my mind in her favour. Like her colleague, Peter Nixon, another high-ranking Trust person I will meet (its director of land, landscape and nature), she talks loudly of the importance of listening to other views without ever really giving the impression that she is doing so.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dame Helen Ghosh, director general of the National Trust, at Upton House, Warwickshire. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianGhosh spends two days out and about every week – the Trust’s HQ is in Swindon – and enjoys going “back to the floor”, wiping down tables in a cafe, or spending time clearing scrub on heathland. This helps her to understand the challenges the Trust faces, which are legion. There are macro problems: the effect of global warming on Britain’s coastline and other landscapes; the rapid decline in soil fertility across the UK; the issue of growing visitor numbers and how best they might be managed. And there are micro problems, many of which have to do with what the Trust likes to call “engagement”: should the volunteers in this house dress up as servants? Should that path involve a detour to a family-friendly bivouac-making workshop? (Visitors, incidentally, are somewhat creepily divided by the Trust into various categories: Curious Minds are the kind of people who wonder what lies behind a baize door; Explorer Families are, well, just that; Out and About-ers love the countryside, and the feeling of space that comes with it; those who Live Life to the Full favour thrilling experiences – surfing, for instance – over looking at paintings in grand houses.)I wrinkle my nose. One rainy day at Wordsworth’s house in Cockermouth, my husband and I virtually the only visitors, two women in mob caps proudly showed us the loaves they’d baked; embarrassed, we couldn’t get away quickly enough. Walking by Buttermere on the same weekend, we were confronted with, among other interventions, a series of signs, presumably for children, about ghoulies and ghosties. Don’t some of the Trust’s ploys turn off as many members as they delight? Ghosh shakes her head. “Some people want to paddle,” she says. “And some to swim, and some to dive. The challenge is to provide for all of them.” To the derision of the Daily Telegraph, she once referred to the collections in the Trust’s houses as “stuff”. This was, she goes on, to miss her point. “Highly educated people with an art-historical background can go into a crowded room and you don’t have to explain it to them. But people who are not interested in history will remember the volunteers [in mob caps], and that their children enjoyed it. The feeling is more important than the theoretical stuff. Looking after a tapestry or preserving a habitat has an intrinsic value, but if no one ever came to look at these things, we wouldn’t be enriching the life of the nation, and why would anyone carry on supporting us?”For Ghosh, the question of the Trust’s power, and how it might be used, is a “very interesting one”. She would never, she insists, take her members’ views on any subject for granted, and on most matters her postbag splits 50/50. She resents the idea that it is frequently viewed as a Goliath surrounded by Davids, because it operates in a very localised way. Nor does she accept that it is seen as being too political when it gets involved in issues like global warming, or what might replace farming subsidies once Britain leaves the EU: “I don’t talk about global warming much at all. But we do believe that it is man-made, and that we must play our part in mitigating that. The effect of extreme weather is the single largest threat to our conservation work.”The criticism, she says, comes from both sides, left and right, so the Trust can never win. While some regard it as too PC, others resent it for being too middle class – though my strong feeling is that no one worries about the latter half so much as it does. “There are encouraging signs that people from perhaps slightly different socioeconomic groups are coming in,” she says, unprompted by me. “It’s not price that puts people off [a family membership costs £111 a year]. It’s accessibility: you need a car. We’re thinking about acquiring properties closer to where people live, though when we talked to ethnic groups in Manchester, their view was: we are part of Manchester and we are interested in its industrial history. In other words, they were more interested in history of place than in, say, black history. You can misjudge these things.”Lonely and mysterious, this is the other Borrowdale And so to Thorneythwaite. If the Trust had its time over, would she have made sure it bought the farm as well as the land? “No, I wouldn’t,” she says, after a longish pause. “It would have been an easy way to avoid criticism, and we would have had a quieter life, but it wouldn’t have enabled us to highlight the debate about how you can support sustainable [hill] farming in terms of the income, and the threat of subsidies disappearing [with Brexit]. We’re clear that our role must be to support adaptation. Conservation is about managing a process of change.” She reminds me that the farmhouse had been empty for a while, the tenant having left a generational tenancy (ie his family had been there for long time) for a mere 15-year one at a National Trust farm nearby, on the grounds that he could not make Thorneythwaite pay, and she denies, again, that the Trust, as was widely reported, has plans to rewild the land now in its possession. The farm’s flock remains there, in the care of a local shepherd, albeit (though she doesn’t say this) one with only a short-term contract to do the job. “We understand that hill farming is part of the culture in the Lake District, as well as an economic business, and that is why we are one of the main supporters in its application to be a Unesco World Heritage Site.” (The bid she refers to centres on the area’s distinctive topography, a landscape created in large part by hundreds of years of sheep farming.)Why, then, does she think people are so upset? Are they wrong? Why won’t they participate in her “debate”? (Buying land to provoke a debate seems to me, incidentally, rather an odd thing to do.) But here they are again, those words: the story “We didn’t tell this story quickly enough. All three of our people there happened to be away at the time. It got about that there would be wolves and so on, and no sheep, and that no local people would be involved. Those things aren’t true, but we didn’t say so fast enough.” Does she know who bought the house? “I think it was a family! And if they are sending their children to a local school and what not… a single farmer in that house is of no benefit to the community.” What if they are incomers, or second-homers? “Not our problem!” she says, rather tartly. I’m genuinely amazed at this, given the pressures on housing, the fact that young people in the Lake District can no longer afford to buy homes there. This may well not be the Trust’s responsibility, but to say so in the way that she just has is at best careless, and at worst, little short of heartless.In fact, the buyers of Thorneythwaite Farm are – according to another National Trust employee, Mike Innerdale, its regional director for the Lakes – precisely what I suggested they might be: incomers. A middle-aged couple from London, they have plans, or so I hear, to turn the farmhouse and its buildings into a respite centre. Does this worry him, as someone who lives and works in the area? “I do see [how their purchase of the farm plays in the community]. But if we step back in history, a lot of the influencers in the Lake District have been incomers. None of them were locals.” Well, if he means the likes of Beatrix Potter, that was somewhat before the current pressures on the housing market. Hasn’t the Trust simply helped to facilitate the move of some people up from London? “Actually, they were interested in the whole farm,” he says, as if this was any kind of answer. Is our land safe with the Trust, or do they have another agenda that doesn’t include farmers?James Rebanks, farmer and writer My conversations with members of the Trust about Thorneythwaite are notable for two things. First, there is the fact that neither Helen Ghosh, Peter Nixon, nor Mike Innerdale mentions Peter Edmondson, who farms at nearby Seathwaite, and who believed he’d raised sufficient funds to buy both the farm and its land. A National Trust tenant himself, he hoped either to move there with his wife, or to put it into the care of one of his adult sons, both of whom still live at home. “I don’t mind being outbid,” he tells me, soon after my meeting with Ghosh. “But an outrageous bid like that was unacceptable, and never to be forgiven in my lifetime. It feels like a scar across my face. I’m more or less heartbroken.” The Edmondsons have been tenants in Borrowdale for six generations and, given that only one farm in the valley remains in private hands, are unlikely now ever to own their own property.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Writer and farmer James Rebanks, with his Herdwick sheep, at Racy Ghyll Farm, Cumbria. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianSecond, there is the fact that their narratives are so inconsistent. Take the issue of the price the Trust paid, a figure it arrived at following independent advice. Peter Nixon tells me that one reason the Trust paid so much was because it feared a buyer from overseas. So, I ask Mike Innerdale, who gave the Trust the idea that there might be interest from overseas? If it came from the vendor’s side, surely they were simply trying to keep the price up. “Potentially. But we couldn’t ignore it.” Are any upland farms in the Lake District, to his knowledge, owned by foreigners? “Not to my knowledge. But we know there was international interest when Blencathra was put on the market.” This is disingenuous. In the end, the Earl of Lonsdale, unable to find a buyer for his iconic mountain (definitely not a hill farm), eventually took it off the market. All three talk of the “threat” the land was facing. But this isn’t quite the case. It’s in a national park, and as such, subject to protection come what may.The Trust deems the outrage about Thorneythwaite to have been the result of “misunderstanding”. But two months on, the anger is still there. “Helen Ghosh is absolutely, fundamentally and categorically wrong about Thorneythwaite,” says James Rebanks. “It is not a misunderstanding on our part. We have a perfect understanding of what they did, and how ill conceived it was. For us, breaking the lands from the historical farmstead sets a terrible, terrible precedent. The Trust exists to counter threat. They did not establish there was a threat to those lands, but they mindlessly waded in all the same. It’s not just about Thorneythwaite now. It’s about their values and whether our land is safe with them – or have they got another agenda that doesn’t include us, the farmers? There isn’t one of us that wants to fight with the Trust. We want to support it. But they think farmers are old-fashioned and narrow-minded and don’t understand what’s coming to them.”Rebanks knows change is needed, not least in order to counteract the calamitous flooding from which the Lake District has suffered in recent years (the Trust hopes to “explore” ways in which its newest farmland might be used to slow the flow of the upper river Derwent, thereby contributing to the prevention of flooding downstream in Cockermouth and Keswick). But he also thinks the Trust is unwilling to acknowledge how much upland farming has already changed. “In the past 10 to 20 years, there has been unprecedented tree planting on farmland and fells, and reductions in flock sizes by a third to a half. The old days of dinosaur farmers resisting environmental progress are long gone.” Recently, moreover, there has been a resurgence of interest in upland sheep farming. “The Herdwick culture has never been stronger. There are so many young people at our shows and sales. It’s amazing, and yet the Trust is still talking like it did 15 years ago, saying no one wants to come into farming.” If the Trust does decide not to keep sheep at Thorneythwaite – Peter Edmondson says he’ll be surprised if the sheep are there in four years’ time – his own farm becomes less sustainable. “I buy and sell sheep to Thorneythwaite, so if that flock goes, mine is less viable.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Volunteers in the summer challenge training scheme at the National Trust’s back-to-back houses in Birmingham. Photograph: National TrustI make a point of asking all the National Trust high-ups I meet whether their organisation has an institutional bias against farming in general, and against sheep farming in particular, and they all say the same thing, which is: no. Nevertheless, this doesn’t stop them from criticising Rebanks, and even from briefing against him. “He doesn’t farm full time,” says Ghosh, a note of satisfaction in her voice. “I don’t know if you thought he did, but he doesn’t.” This is untrue: like all farmers in the Lake District, he has in the past diversified, but his life is currently devoted to his farm, and to the writing it has inspired. A few days later, a National Trust press officer quietly suggests to me that it is “useful for Rebanks to be seen as an outsider” and that he is playing “a cute game”.Idon’t want to get too bogged down in the Thorneythwaite saga. The more I learn, the more I am minded to agree with Melvyn Bragg. But it is, after all, only one property, in one place, however precious that property and place, however beloved. I am not quite ready to resign my own membership just yet. A week later, then, I travel to Birmingham to see the back-to-back houses the Trust owns in the city centre, after which I will head to a place I’ve never been before: Kinver Edge, near Stourbridge in Staffordshire, to visit a collection of rock houses carved into the local red sandstone. Together, they help to illustrate some of the breadth and scope of the Trust’s work in 2016.The back-to-backs – there are 11 of them, two of which are now holiday cottages – have been in the care of the Trust for 11 years, and are the last such structures in the city. I’m shown around by Mukith Miah, the property’s education and off-site development officer, and about the most enthusiastic advocate for the Trust that it’s possible to meet: “If I ever left, I would still volunteer here,” he says, and I believe him. A Muslim who prays five times a day, Miah relishes the fact that he does not conform to the expectations most people have of Trust employees, and is doing good work encouraging visitors and volunteers from different communities. When, for instance, a group of women from the city’s Bangladeshi community came along, and it became clear that they did not fully understand the guide, he arranged a return trip, this time ensuring a translator was on hand. The Trust here also runs an inspirational summer scheme for young people in which they learn to be a tour guide in a week (the training usually takes six weeks). As he tells me proudly, one graduate of the scheme, Khalil Ali, then a 19-year-old asylum seeker from Afghanistan, is now an aerospace engineer in Derbyshire.The back-to-backs are one of the places where having volunteers in period costume really works: they light the gas lamps and tend the coal fires, and generally tell the stories of the families that lived, cramped as all hell, in these houses. Today, a group of primary school children are visiting, and they are dressed up too, little Victorian urchins of every creed and colour, staring wide-eyed at the tray of eyeballs made by Mr Oldfield, who lived in one of the houses in the 1840s. Upstairs, in the house occupied in the 1930s by Mr Mitchell, a locksmith, Miah pats a wall. “What do you think these marks are?” he asks, pointing at a series of rust-coloured blotches. “Well, I’ll tell you: the house was infested with bugs, and these are the marks Mr Mitchell left when he killed them.” His face is a picture of pure delight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kinver Edge and the Holy Austin Rock Houses, Staffordshire. Photograph: Chris Lacey/National TrustThe Holy Austin Rock Houses at Kinver are an hour away by car, and have no equivalent in all England. They date from 1770, when they were carved into the sandstone by workers at the local iron works; in 1861, 11 households lived here. The Trust has now restored several of them, which are in two tiers (the caves at the top were, apparently, posher). One is dressed to show what it would have been like in Victorian times, and another in full 1930s-style; a third is a tea room, just as it used to be when, following the opening of the Kinver Light Railway in 1901, tourists began to visit, curious about these Hobbit holes and their stoical inhabitants.The houses are magical. You might take this for a film set if the Trust didn’t offer photographic evidence that real people – the last tenants, Alfred Howell and Rose Novak, left in 1964, when the council condemned the properties – once lived here. But Peter Nixon (this is where we meet) and his enthusiastic colleagues are just as eager for me to climb up through the woods to the iron age fort nearby. The heathland beyond it, which the Trust intends to protect and augment by removing trees, highlights the difficulties that lie in explaining certain kinds of projects to the public: we hate the idea of losing woodland, but while there are more than 3m hectares of it in the UK, only 95,000 hectares of lowland heath remain, a vital habitat for an extraordinarily rich variety of wildlife – though I will, alas, see no adders today.If they’re using this as a kind of proxy, hoping it will change my view of the situation at Thorneythwaite, they’re wasting their time. Nevertheless, as I fill my lungs with fresh air, gazing at a view that extends across three counties, I do take their point. Sentiment is the Trust’s greatest friend; without it, after all, it would be likely to have no members. But it is also, in some circumstances, a powerful enemy. As the idea of what constitutes heritage becomes ever wider – the pebble-dashed Liverpool semi that was John Lennon’s childhood home is only the start of it – and the preservation of our landscapes grows ever more complex, the Trust is, I fear, going to find itself fighting the romantics on more than one front.