In Paris in January, Unifrance – an organisation promoting French film abroad – held its annual conference, Rendez-vous with French Cinema. Invited to cover it for Australian readers, I was struck by an unusual commonality: almost every film I watched revolved around a woman, or women, at work. The French actor Nathalie Baye has spoken before about the opportunities presented to older women in the industry. She told me: “We are fortunate in France. Cinema here is more inspired by real life, and for women, real life doesn’t stop at the age of 45. In fact, there’s more going on – and more interesting things happening to them.” The Alliance Française French film festival opens this week, and brings a number of these films to Australian shores. I’ve focused here on the talking points and highlights, paying particular attention to those that are likely to receive a wider release – but with 200 films made each year in France (compared with 30 or so in Australia), and 43 of them coming to Australia for the festival, this list is far from comprehensive.There are slapstick comedies, queer coming-of-age stories, Belgium-set satires, and at least one movie starring Gérard Depardieu and a heap of wine. There’s a biopic about Mozart’s sister, another about Marie Antoinette, and a bunch of films nominated for multiple Cesars – including Slack Bay, the Innocents, and From the Land of the Moon. There is also the requisite smattering of big-budget crowd pleasers, among the biggest names in French cinema and beyond – from Isabelle Huppert and Juliette Binoche to Audrey Tatou, Nathalie Portman and Omar Sy.It’s Only the End of the World, directed by Xavier DolanStarring: Marion Cotillard, Vincent Cassel, Nathalie Baye, Gaspard Ulliel, Léa SeydouxShowing in: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s Only the End of the World review: Xavier Dolan's nightmarish homecoming is a dream The 27-year-old Canadian director Xavier Dolan has been the wunderkind of French-language cinema since his 2009 debut feature I Killed My Mother; his follow-up, Mommy, won the jury prize at 2014’s Cannes festival. Like the previous two, the latest revolves around a son’s complicated relationship with his mother – but this is his biggest cast to date.Based on a play by Jean-Luc Lagarce, It’s Only the End of the World is a stunning slow burn. Louis (Ulliel), an acclaimed gay playwright in his mid-30s, returns to his estranged family to try to tell them he is dying of a terminal illness, but instead is thrown back into the pressure cooker of tension, anxiety and resentment that caused him to leave them 12 years ago.The film is shot so tight you feel you can’t escape the characters and their dysfunction: his lonely younger sister Suzanne (Seydoux), his awful, aggressive brother Antoine (Cassel), Antoine’s sad wife, Catherine (an underused Cotillard), and his manic, heartbreaking mother Martine, played by Baye (who also stars in Moka at this year’s festival). Although it went on to be awarded the Cannes grand prix and three Cesars, the film divided critics upon its premiere. As Baye told Guardian Australia in January, Dolan had it coming: “At some point [the critics] have to pull people down – they don’t want to go on and be too encouraging.”You might also like: Just To Be Sure, directed by Carine TardieuTardieu’s third feature also has at its centre a deeply complicated family. Enjoying its world premiere at the French film festival in Australia, Just To Be Sure follows 45-year-old widower Erwan’s (François Damiens) search to find his biological father.The Midwife, directed by Martin ProvostStarring: Catherine Deneuve, Catherine Frot, Olivier Gourmet, Mylène DemongeotShowing in: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Catherine Deneuve: there are no longer any stars in France If I were giving birth, there’s few things I would welcome less than a film crew – but for the shooting of the Midwife, six women opened their doors. “It’s awful to see three- or four-month-old babies appearing [in film birth scenes], after this suffering of the mothers,” the director, Martin Provost, explained to Guardian Australia in January. “In France you can’t film babies under three months old – so that’s why the shooting took place in Belgium.”Provost himself was saved by his midwife, who donated blood to keep him alive after his birth – and he has dedicated this film to her. The Midwife (“sage femme” in French, which translates to “wise woman”) is a soft study of midwife Claire (Frot) who is passionate about her job and excels at it. Her quiet life is thrown into chaos when her father’s ex – an extravagant, alcoholic, gambling-addicted woman played brilliantly by Deneuve – gets in touch with Claire out of the blue, three decades after breaking her dad’s heart.At its centre, the film is about the complex, fragile relationship between these two older women. But interwoven in their subtle story are broader social themes, as Claire’s craft is threatened by the money-driven modern birthing industry – sterile, efficient and lacking in heart.Some of the babies in this film are so new that they’re blue; the film crew and Frot were present at their births. Frot went through a midwifery course for the film, and actually caught a few of the babies herself – emotional moments for the actor and the crew, and Provost said there were more than a few tears.If you like this, you might also like: The Country Doctor, directed by Thomas LiltiIrreplaceable review – good-natured country doctor drama Titled Irreplaceble in other regions, The Country Doctor is another heartwarming French drama about a dedicated doctor (François Cluzet), who must find and train a replacement to treat his community before his ill health takes hold. He is initially distrustful of the inexperienced Nathalie (Isabelle Sadoyan) – but she soon proves herself.The Dancer, directed by Stéphanie Di Giusto Starring: Soko, Lily-Rose Depp, Mélanie Thierry, Gaspard UllielShowing in: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart, Parramatta, Casula    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Soko: 'I vomit all my feelings up' This is not probably the best film you’ll see at this year’s festival but with a cast that includes the French singer and actor Soko and Lily-Rose Depp (daughter of Johnny Depp and the French singer, model and actor Vanessa Paradis), it is certainly a film of interest – and very pretty to look at.The Dancer is a fairly straightforward, deeply fictionalised account of the life of Loïe Fuller (Soko): the legendary French dancer who, in the late 1800s, revolutionised the form’s relationship to stagecraft and spectacle with her “serpentine” dance. Depp, who also stars opposite Natalie Portman in Planetarium, here plays Isadora Duncan: the talented, beautiful prodigy who threatens to topple Fuller from the throne. The plot and script tilts towards the cringeworthy but some of the dance sequences are spell-binding and the two lead actors are compelling, particularly when they share a scene – between the dark Fuller and her manipulative young protege, the tension is palpable. If you like this, you might also like: Polina, directed by Angelin PreljocajThe directorial debut of Angelin Preljocaj, founder of the famous Ballet Preljocaj, Polina tells the fictional story of a working-class girl from Moscow who joins the Bolshoi Ballet, falls in love and channels that passion into movement. Again, the dance scenes performed by ballerina Anastasia Shevtsova are what you’ll be watching it for, as well as the star talent: Juliette Binoche plays one of her instructors.Things to Come, directed by Mia Hansen-Løve Starring: Isabelle Huppert, André Marcon, Édith Scob, Roman KolinkaShowing in: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Things to Come review – Isabelle Huppert in exquisite agony In the fifth feature from the acclaimed director Mia Hansen-Løve, Huppert plays Nathalie: a philosopher whose academic husband suddenly leaves her for a younger woman. A former communist whose radical ideals have been tempered by age (“Everyone’s a communist for three years,” she says with a shrug at one point), she connects with a group of political young people and rediscovers herself in the process.The film is a tender study of ageing, loss and reinvention – so complex that it’s difficult to capture in a plot description. Although inspired in part by Hansen-Løve’s own life – her parents, both philosophy teachers, split when she was in her 20s – Huppert imbues the character with so much pathos and personality it’s hard to see Nathalie as anyone but herself. The actor – who was nominated for an Oscar for Elle, and received the UniFrance French cinema award this year – is the biggest name Hansen-Løve has worked with to date. Asked at Rendez-vous how she felt to be directing such a talent, the 36-year-old’s answer was relatable and honest: “Terrified. I still am! And she plays with that, too,” she replied, laughing. “That’s part of her personality. I think that even Michael Haneke at one stage was like, ‘Gasp! This is Isabelle Huppert, right in front of me! I’d better behave!’ … But on the other hand it was very easy to work with her. We trusted one another fully.”If you like this, you might like: Souvenir, directed by Bavo DefurneSouvenir review – Isabelle Huppert swaps Eurovision for paté and back again OK, the only real connection between these two films are in its lead actor – but if you’re a fan of Huppert you’ll want to watch Souvenir, which the Guardian’s Benjamin Lee has described as “one of her strangest-sounding projects yet, and that’s quite a statement for Huppert”.In the film, she plays a bored paté factory worker who was once a Eurovision finalist – and who is encouraged to return to the stage after being recognised by a young man.The Unknown Girl, directed by Jean-Pierre and Luc DardenneStarring: Adèle Haenel, Olivier Bonnaud, Jérémie Renier, Louka MinnellaShowing in: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Unknown Girl review – a rare misfire from the Dardenne brothers Like Two Days, One Night before it, the latest film by Belgium’s Dardenne brothers – the double Palme-winning team known for their social realist masterpieces – is set in their favoured town of Liège and follows the quest of a young woman. But while the 2014 film spoke more broadly to the varied failures of capitalism and its human costs, The Unknown Girl doesn’t extend too far beyond the story of its lead character: a young doctor Jenny (César-winning Haenel) who ignores an after-hours call one night and finds the next morning that the African woman who had rung ended up as an unidentified dead body. The rest of the film is Jenny’s conscience-driven pilgrimage to find out who that woman is. The Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw called the film a “rare misfire” from the brothers, with a plot that depends too much on coincidence to be plausible, and doesn’t offer much more than a by-the-book crime drama. But I enjoyed the performance of Haenel, who plays Jenny with such impassivity and stoicism that each facial tic and bodily slump carries weight.At Rendez-vous in Paris, Jean-Pierre Dardenne acknowledged that your enjoyment of the film depends on how much you get from her performance: “What [Jenny] does with her responsibility … also says something about [the] world. But it only says something about the world if you’re really interested in her character.”If you like this you might like: Standing Tall, directed by Emmanuelle BercotLa Tête Haute review – Catherine Deneuve rules over solid Cannes opener For the coveted opening-night slot of Cannes film festival, the 2015 programmers eschewed the usual star power and glamour for a movie that had much more to say with less. In Bercot’s social realist drama, Catherine Deneuve plays a juvenile court judge who, with a tough but kindhearted counsellor (Benoît Magimel), attempts to rehabilitate a young delinquent.Tomorrow, directed by Mélanie Laurent Showing in: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Casula   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The renowned actor and film-maker Mélanie Laurent was pregnant with her first child when she came across a terrifying study. Coordinated by the biologist Elisabeth Hadley and the paleontologist Tony Barnosky in 2012, the research – signed by 21 scientists – predicted that if the way we treated the Earth didn’t change, we were heading towards a tipping point of mass extinction as severe as the last glacial shift 11,000 years ago. Terrified into action, Laurent teamed up with the ecological rights advocate Cyril Dion and a group of fresh-faced film-making friends, who travel around the world in search of real solutions to climate change. “We all felt we had to do something,” Laurent says in the opening sequence of her documentary, which has a Captain-Planet-meets-Vice kind of feel.The facts are as well-researched as they are sobering but it’s shot with a playfulness and youthful vitality that stops Tomorrow from becoming too overbearing. And it’s refreshing to see a documentary focused less on problems than on real-world solutions – perhaps one reason why Tomorrow has done so well at the French box office.If you like this you might like: The Odyssey, directed by Jérôme SalleJacques Cousteau sails again in new film As a super-commercial biopic, The Odyssey has more in common with the Dancer and Monsieur Chocolat than it does with Tomorrow – but I’ve hemmed myself in with this listicle format and we’ll have to make do.Another globetrotting celebration of the planet, this €20m film follows three decades in the life of the celebrity oceanographer, film-maker and knitted red hat-wearer Jacques Cousteau (referenced in Wes Anderson’s The Life Aquatic, and played here by Lambert Wilson). The film may not be groundbreaking in its narrative or nuanced in its portrayal of Cousteau’s life, but thanks to high-tech digital effects and glorious locations – through the Bahamas, Antarctica, South Africa and Croatia, among others – it’s wonderful to watch.Monsieur Chocolat, directed by Roschdy Zem  Starring: Omar Sy, James Thierrée, Noémie Lvovsky, Frédéric Pierrot Appearing at: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart, Casula    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Chocolat review – lavish study of fin de siècle racism Another big-budget biopic, Monsieur Chocolat stars French royalty Omar Sy (The Intouchables) as the Afro-Cuban performance artist Rafael Padilla: the first famous black clown, who arrived on main stages during the racist turn of the 20th century. Rafael is cast as a horrific “half-man/half-animal” caged freak in a roving circus, when he is discovered by the once-celebrated performer George Footitt (played by Charlie Chaplin’s equally-wiggly grandson James Thiérré). Footitt christens him “Chocolat” and has a proposition: a groundbreaking two-hander clown show that pairs Footitt as the Clown Blanc and Chocolat as Auguste.Like The Dancer, this film is more “based on” a true story than true story itself: in reality, Chocolat was discovered by the famous Auguste Tony Grice before going on to work with Footitt – just one of many complexities that have been glossed over here. But the film doesn’t gloss over the racism, a theme which, according to Le Monde’s Thomas Sotinel, is unusual for French cinema. Chocolat is marketed in blackface, and in his performance with Footitt plays the dumb, friendly scapegoat who is perennially kicked in the butt as the audience laughs and cheers. It’s difficult to watch but also impossible not to – both performers are masters at movement and their lively clowning is uncomfortably hilarious.But it’s the threat of tragic ruin for Chocolat that holds the movie together, as the performer’s ambitions collide with his society’s violent constraints – and his own addictions.  If you like this, you might also like: Ogres, directed by Léa Fehner It’s striking how many films at this year’s festival deal with performance, from The Dancer and Polina to Planetarium and Monsieur Chocolat. Ogres is another, this time centring on a chaotic, claustrophobic travelling theatre troupe and their tumultuous relationships.Based on a similar group Fehner grew up among, the free-spirited performers are played by the director’s own mother, father and sister, along with a handful of others – but the standout performance is from Adèle Haenel as Mona, a young performer who falls pregnant to the troupe’s ringmaster.• The Alliance Française French film festival opens in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra this week, before travelling to Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart, Parramatta and Casula• Guardian Australia travelled to Rendez-vous as a guest of Unifrance