A sponge cake that smells distinctly of chorizo would, in most kitchens, be a sign that something’s gone badly wrong. Yet when Firo Vázquez, head chef at El Olivar restaurant in Murcia, south east Spain, lists the ingredients of his bizcocho, there doesn’t seem to be anything untoward. It includes eggs, oil and baking powder, along with a kind of homemade flour that he calls “elaborina”.It turns out, however, that the flour is made from not just chorizo, but all the ingredients of the bean stew called Fabada from Asturias. According to Vázquez it even provides the same nutrients. Among other dishes, he’s made his elaborina flour out of paella, caviar, roasted peppers and at least 20 other meals. The idea is to give people who may struggle to eat proper food the chance to enjoy its flavours and nutrients in an easy-to-swallow form.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Those with eating difficulties find it easier to swallow food made with elaborina, while ingesting all of essential nutrients Photograph: PR Company HandoutWhen he carried out trials with elderly people and others with eating difficulties at the Universidad Complutense in Madrid, he says the version made with roast lamb, served in croquettes, was a particular hit. “When you’ve had years of not being able to eat lamb and you try it for the first time, all those memories come back,” says Vázquez. “One elderly lady cried because she hadn’t tasted lamb for so long and she’d forgotten what it tasted like.”Until a few years ago, Vázquez, who studied medicine for five years and once worked in a hospital, was best known for his experiments at the University of Murcia with edible paper. He presented a whole edible Don Quixote, printed with squid ink, at a conference in Beijing and still offers a tasting menu at El Olivar which includes paper in every course, and in which you can eat both the menu and the bill.“Elaborina came out of my research into edible paper,” he explains. “I was looking for a flour that would allow me to give paper a scent and a taste. We came up with the flour from meals like Spanish omelette or roast lamb. We then discovered that not only did the product have the flavours of the original dish, but also its nutritional qualities as well.”As an example he presents me with a selection of different bizcochos, made from roasted peppers, Spanish omelette, as well as the bean stew. The differences between them are subtle. At first they all blend into one, unexpectedly savoury, softly crumbling cake. A “churro”, a crunchy, fried dough that he makes from an elaborina of caramelised onion, is much easier to identify. Yet he says that his patients, with their senses sharpened by having been on a bland diet for so long, were able to identify the flavours in 70% of the cases. I wonder, though, whether a bizcocho of Spanish omelette is really so much easier to eat than a Spanish omelette?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Firo Vázquez, head chef at El Olivar restaurant in Murcia, south east Spain. Photograph: PR Company Handout“An omelette might not be difficult for you or I but for people with problems chewing or swallowing it is,” he says. “Elaborina can also just be mixed with water as a paste. Those kind of soft, liquid based diets tend to have very limited flavours. Everybody just makes strawberry, chocolate or vanilla. As though there were no other flavours in the world!” It’s about more than just adding variety to a patient’s diet. According to Vázquez, bad food can contribute to depression for people with severe eating difficulties. “People with chronic problems who can’t eat well lose the joy of eating,” he says. “With elaborina the joy of eating returns. It helps them to get better, not because of the nutrients but because of the joy. If you’re a chronic patient and they bring you your food as a paste you say ‘I don’t want to eat!’”Vázquez admits that, although he serves elaborina in his restaurants, his sci-fi bizcochos are likely to remain a novelty for most people without eating problems. “If we do a bizcocho of Asturian bean stew here in the restaurant people will come to take a photo of it out of curiosity. That’s fine,” he says. “Come, please! But people don’t have to buy the bizcocho. They can buy the flour and make what they like. You can take this home (he holds up a small bag of elaborina of rabbit paella) and make bread, a bechamel, a bizcocho or a blini. Or you can have it with a little bit of water or milk as a paste. The important thing is that it has the flavour of rice with rabbit and it gives you the nutrition of rice with rabbit.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One sack of elaborina is equivalent to 25 sacks of solid food. ‘Think about what we could save in transport costs for humanitarian aid,’ says Vázquez Photograph: PR Company HandoutBut he also argues that elaborina has applications in situations where it’s not easy to knock up a quick paella. “One sack of elaborina is the equivalent of 25 sacks of food,” he says. “Think about what we could save in transport costs for humanitarian aid. One plane carrying elaborina would be the equivalent of 25 planes.”Elaborina was first presented to the world at the Madrid Fusion restaurant industry conference in 2011. Since then it’s been a struggle to raise funding to produce it on a larger scale, but Vázquez hopes to ultimately develop it as a genuine mass product. “We’ve patented it,” he says. “But I know big companies can easily drag you from court to court if they want to produce their own version. Somebody’s going to produce something like this one day. There’s a demand for it. We just want to make sure we’re the first.”