Unreported World 7.30pm, Channel 4Two episodes into its 32nd series, Unreported World has lost none of its knack for spotting those stories that are engaging in and of themselves, and also reflective of wider trends. Tonight’s documentary sees Marcel Theroux, accompanied by director Daniel Bogado, travel to India to report on the matchmaking enterprises being established by people who have a disability – an added pressure in a marriage market already warped by a combination of caste, faith and parental expectations. Andrew MuellerHave I Got News for You 9pm, BBC1Arriving for a 52nd series, HIGNFY has rarely been more welcome. Over the next 11 weeks, Ian Hislop and Paul Merton will, as ever, captain the teams skewering the increasing ludicrousness of world affairs. They’ll be running over the US presidential election, too, which is likely to provide ample quarry for some terrifying hilarity. Nick Clegg has a go in the host’s chair, while Kevin Bridges is one of the week’s guest panellists. Ben ArnoldPeople’s History of Pop 9pm, BBC4Pop didn’t hang about in the old days: as host Pauline Black recalls, the Selecter had been away just six weeks on their 1980 US tour, but on their return the new romantics were already in full swing. Tribalism is the watchword for this episode, looking at 1976 to 1985. We meet Clash fans, Durannies and a young girl whose destiny was changed by the Smiths. It’s followed by a documentary on the making of the Wailers’ classic Catch a Fire. Ali CatterallBob’s Burgers 9pm, Comedy CentralLoren Bouchard’s animated sitcom continues to balance snark with sensitivity as the sixth season continues. The first episode of this double-bill concentrates on that childhood staple, the shopping mall Santa. This Claus is a spectacularly grumpy one and needs plenty of convincing to shelve his naughty list. In the second episode, the family unite, fall apart and then just about unite again during an eventful dinner. Phil HarrisonAquarius 9pm, Sky AtlanticTonight’s double-bill begins with episode seven, in which the tension is eminently bearable following the buildup to a 1969 murder we know David Duchovny’s Sam has no chance of thwarting. Rewind to a year earlier, however, and there’s a needlessly unpleasant scene involving his interrogation of a black maid he suspects of murder. Meanwhile, the Family has a new arrival: Sadie is pregnant. And in episode eight, Sam is confronted by Manson. David StubbsStill Game 9.30pm, BBC1Another of the recent zombie sitcoms, which is to say a comedy genre looking surprisingly lively after being thought long dead. Ford Kiernan and Greg Hemphill reprise their roles as Scottish pensioners Jack and Victor, two elderly gents occupying themselves with pub and newspaper and Summer Wine-style farce. Tonight, the Futuroo gadget catalogue arrives with the promise of attractive labour-saving devices. But will it create more problems than it solves? John RobinsonThe Last Leg 10pm, Channel 4Following its daily primetime slot during the Rio Paralympics – which culminated in Aussie host Adam Hills losing a medals-related bet and getting a rather wonky union jack dyed on his head – the irreverent news review show returns. Flanked by co-hosts Josh Widdicombe and Alex Brooker, Hills ensures that the humour is pointed but never mean, while the #isitok hashtag remains an object lesson in leveraging social media for laughs. Graeme Virtue      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Johnny Depp in Black Mass. Photograph: Allstar/WarnerFilm choiceBlack Mass (Scott Cooper, 2015) 9.45am, 8pm, Sky Movies PremiereJohnny Depp is all but unrecognisable as the quietly ferocious Boston crime kingpin James “Whitey” Bulger, given licence to do pretty much as he likes thanks to the influence of his senator brother Billy (Benedict Cumberbatch). This true-life crime saga makes for a lurid, violent movie, with director Cooper overly reverential towards the work of Scorsese, capo di tutti capi in these matters. Paul HowlettLondon River (Rachid Bouchareb, 2009) 12.10am, BBC2In the aftermath of the 7/7 London bombings, Brenda Blethyn’s well-to-do Guernsey smallholder and Sotigui Kouyaté’s Malian migrant worker are parents who meet in search of their missing children: two sad and pained souls looking to make sense of a life-shattering event. A compassionate, sensitive drama from the director of war film Days of Glory. PHLive sportInternational one-day cricket: Bangladesh v England Mirpur hosts the first of three. 8am, Sky Sports 2International football: Portugal v Andorra The World Cup group B qualifier featuring the Euro 2016 champions (kick off 7.45pm). 7.40pm, Sky Sports 3Boxing: Ricky Burns v Kiryl Relikh The WBC world super lightweight title fight comes from the SSE Hydro in Glasgow. 8pm, Sky Sports 2