Britain and Russia may have trouble agreeing on Ukraine, Syria or pretty much any other issue on the international agenda, but a man who died 400 years ago can perhaps help bring the two nations a little closer together amid the mutual distrust.Events across Britain and the world will commemorate the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death on Saturday, but in Russia the date will be used to kickstart a year celebrating British literature.On Monday next week, every Russian school will have a lesson devoted to Shakespeare, and next month a Moscow metro train will be decked out with a Shakespeare theme, both inside and outside.“Shakespeare is popular everywhere, of course, but he’s so significant here you could even think of him as being a Russian writer in some ways,” said Michael Bird, head of the British Council in Russia.Shakespeare plays are frequently performed on Russia’s stages; his works influenced a number of Russian writers including the national poet, Alexander Pushkin; and he has been rendered in Russian by translators ranging from Catherine the Great to Boris Pasternak. On Friday, a major exhibition of British portraits will open at the Tretyakov gallery in Moscow, including the “Chandos portrait”, from around 1600-1610, the most famous portrait believed to be of the playwright. Also among the 49 works on display at the Tretyakov is the “Ditchley portrait” of Elizabeth I, painted during the monarch’s lifetime. “Some of these works have never left the walls of the National Portrait Gallery,” said Nicholas Cullinan, the gallery’s director, who travelled to Moscow for the launch. “This is a fantastic act of cultural exchange and diplomacy.”A return exhibition, Russia in the age of Tolstoy and Tchaikovsky, is already running at the National Portrait Gallery in London, featuring iconic Russian portraits, many of which have never left Russia before. Bilateral relations between Britain and Russia have been poor since the radioactive murder of Alexander Litvinenko in 2006, and the relationship took another turn for the worse after the annexation of Crimea and war in east Ukraine in 2014. As part of the EU, Britain has enforced sanctions against Russian individuals and companies and there are few high-level contacts between the two nations.Relations between London and Moscow remain frosty. Earlier this month, state television broadcast a programme claiming that leading opposition figure Alexei Navalny had been recruited by MI6 and was working as a British spy to destroy Russia. The report was discredited by the fact that the “MI6 documents” shown on screen were written in semi-comprehensible English due to style and grammar mistakes. However, even at the height of the Ukraine crisis, the Russia-Britain year of culture went ahead in 2014, and the literature year is a continuation of that. In such a climate of political mistrust, British diplomats believe more rather than less cultural engagement is important. In late 2014, the British Museum loaned part of the Parthenon marbles collection to the Hermitage in St Petersburg, while from last September until March, a major exhibition about the Soviet space programme, Cosmonauts, was on display at the Science Museum in London.“I think it’s perhaps because of, rather than despite, the political climate that all of this is happening,” said Bird. “Even though there are all the political difficulties, both governments are interested in having a good relationship.”The British Council, which is coordinating events in Russia, has itself fallen victim to the political climate in the past. In 2008, it closed its regional offices in Russia after what it described as a coordinated campaign of harassment against its staff. However, while the regional offices remain closed, the council continues to work in Russia. In the summer, the British Council hopes to bring a group of contemporary British novelists to Russia and put them on the Trans-Siberian railway, organising pop-up literary festivals in cities along the route. 