Few of the holidaymakers who arrived into Brighton for the bank holiday spared a moment to wonder what a "climate connections" exhibition is doing at the Birdcage bandstand on the seafront. But Brightonians are getting used to such things. For just over 100 days, since the 6 May local elections, they have been living under Britain's first Green-run council.How is the Green regime doing? "It's still early days," say fair-minded opponents such as David Lepper, former Labour MP for the Brighton Pavilion seat, which the Greens' national leader, Caroline Lucas, took at the 2010 election to become Britain's first Green MP.Others are less kind. Typically, they draw attention to the Travellers issue, a long-standing bugbear here in the summer months. Mixed messages from the new council about not moving Travellers on until they have somewhere else to go - Lucas had earlier signed a sympathetic Commons motion - led to charges that Greens were soft. "Standing on the A27 saying: 'Come on in and take over our parks,' " as one Green ruefully puts it. In practice, their policy has not been very different from the outgoing Tory council, albeit more conciliatory. Travellers have been moved on, but efforts are being made to find them more space. "Scaremongering," protest the Greens.Local observers and town hall politicians in rival parties concede that the party has been cautiously sensible and has some policies which are popular: everyone loves the idea of more solar panels on schools and better cycle lanes. But critics can also rattle off U-turns and embarrassments, some self-inflicted, which have unsettled the novices' first three months in office.The Green manifesto idea for a "meat-free Monday" was given the thumbs down after an enthusiastic council official proposed piloting it with beefy binmen. They were already cross about public hostility – binmen have been attacked – towards efforts to improve the efficiency and environmental friendliness of waste collection.But the Green honeymoon is not over. "When we were elected, the response in the city was tremendous," says Bill Randall, the council's new leader, a bearded ex-Labour leftwinger of 63 with a background in social policy journalism and campaigns such as Shelter and Age Concern. "I couldn't move without people stopping in the street to shake my hand. There's been a lot of goodwill.""Our manifesto commitments fell into three categories, tackling inequalities, making Brighton Britain's greenest city and involving local communities in everything we do," Randall says. First elected in 2003, Randall prides himself on having cultivated the business community, which has not been as sceptical as feared. To meet their living wage pledge, the Greens insisted on an extra 60p on the minimum wage for 340 council workers. As a gesture to their ambition to get the council's pay gap down, chief executive John Barradell has taken a 5% pay cut. Green councillors are a mixed bunch. Men and women in their 20s to 60s include teachers, writers, campaigners, an ex-Tory or two, locals, commuters and new arrivals who find Brighton refreshingly liberal and open-minded, as well as having its distinctive buzz.That is point No 1. Raffish and stylish even before the Prince Regent embraced the former village of Brighthelmstone, fashionable Brighton and the Greens are in a chicken and egg relationship. Creatives, hippies, counter-culture types, gays and lesbians, new media pioneers, all have long been drawn down the A23 to its sunny micro-climate, creating an environment where the Green movement was likely to thrive. Many students attending its two universities graduate and decide to stay, worsening job and housing shortages for the unskilled, but – as in other Green university strongholds like Oxford, Norwich and Lancaster – pushing up the radical vote. Even Tories are quite green Tories in Brighton.It has been a rapid rise, from 1996 when Brighton's first Green councillor was elected to Lucas's breakthrough in 2010. With her already an MEP, the party put national manpower and resources behind her bid to take the inner-Brighton seat where the young and idealistic like to settle in once-large houses, now flats.Even genteel Hove, incorporated in 1997 as the western part of what became a city in 2000 (population 260,000), is being "Brightonised". As such, it loses 1,000 Conservative voters a year, concedes Hove's Tory MP, Mike Weatherley.Weatherley himself calls the Greens "watermelons" because they're red inside. "People voted Green to give the other parties a kick and because they like cuddly Green policies. But they don't want the socialist policies that go with it," he said, citing the rumoured 3.5% council tax rise next year, part of the council's efforts to mitigate £54m worth of Whitehall-imposed cuts on its £760m budget over the next three years.Weatherley points out that in 2010, the Greens won less than half the Tory or Labour share of the total vote in all three Brighton and Hove seats: around 20% to their 48% and 47% shares.Even the squeezed Lib Dems did better (27%). Lucas's own 31.3% share in Pavilion should be set against a 5.5% Green vote in neighbouring Kemptown, and 5.2% in Hove which both reverted to their pre-1997 Tory status. The "Caroline Effect" benefitted her party in 2011 – when Labour was also squeezed – but tactical voting works both ways. Most Green councillors were elected on 2nd or 3rd preference votes which could melt away.But the pages of the Brighton Evening Argus and the town hall website reflect new Green priorities: local shops, not chains; council tax for yacht berths in the marina; council contracts tied to offering apprenticeships; a fly-tipper prosecuted (rare); a drive to insulate draughty Regency housing and improve the supply of allotments; more recycling and a locally grown food partnership; 20mph speed restrictions; promoting electrical feed-in tariffs; controlled parking zones, which many dislike.The long-term impact of such initiatives cannot yet be judged. By general consent, council officials who felt a bit neglected under the Tories – in power for most of the past 150 years – have welcomed the breath of fresh Green air and increased influence that inexperienced leadership allows them. Some underlying policies may be much the same as before with a dash of green rebranding.Yet a party committed to public consultation knows what worries local voters: the shortage of primary places (the secondary school lottery is now less controversial), drugs (there is a high drug-related death rate), jobs in the low-wage tourist economy, and congestion.Last month voters rejected a CPZ scheme. But the cycle path on Grand Avenue, designated for removal by the Tories, will be upgraded instead. Sustrans has promised its pin-up council a £330,000 grant to help. The government has approved a £4m grant to upgrade congested Lewes Road after Ian Davey, new cabinet member for transport, signalled pragmatic acquiescence in a road improvement. Green hostility to park-and-ride schemes has also diminished in office.In truth, many hard-pressed communities would love to have the problems which face this city nestling between the sea and a national park.In the Amex Stadium Brighton's football team this month acquired a brand new home. At the other end of town Sussex county (the world's oldest) cricket club is redeveloping its Hove ground.When the sun shines what could go wrong?Weatherley warns: "The Greens need to get a grip on decisions and demonstrate their credentials as a proper party, not one with outlandish ideas that get knocked back at the first hurdle." Randall says: "There's a lot of goodwill. Now we have to deliver."