Bonjour Laure,You’re 25, chatting with friends, when one will predict you’ll start your own business one day. You’ll scoff at the idea. That can’t be right. Your own business? You wouldn’t know where to start. You don’t even know where you fit in, a lot of the time.Before that happens, you will build a career that’s really varied. An office job in Lyon; training polo ponies in Paris; market research in China; selling cakes at Maison Blanc – your first role in the UK, which you move to on a whim. You’ll create marketing campaigns. You’ll manage a startup French deli in Guildford. You’ll head web teams for a global insurance firm. Let life lead you. Learn. Store knowledge, experiences and skills. Make the most of every day. It’s all building a bigger picture you can’t quite see yet. After you have two children, you’ll make a hard phone call to your boss. You’re in your best and biggest job yet but it’s making family life crack at the seams. And you want to show your kids that if you have a dream, you should make it happen. Letter to my younger self: what would you do if you couldn't fail? Your passion is patisserie and chocolate. You’ll set up your own bespoke cake business in West Sussex, where you live. Your kids will call it Pudding Fairy. You feel so lucky to do what you love for a living (even if you’re not quite living off the proceeds yet). It’s exhilarating. But three weeks on, you’re standing in your kitchen, pulling your hair out in front of a half-finished fondant toadstool that you’ve been commissioned to make for someone’s birthday. It’s a lovely cake. So why do you feel so stuck and frustrated, wondering if you should have stuck with your previous job? You’ve done your market research. You know people want fondant cakes in the UK. Not dainty French-inspired patisserie and pretty chocolate work, like where you come from near Lyon. So that’s what you make, following everyone else. But the truth is, you dislike fondant so much. You think it tastes sweet. You don’t like working with it at all. But you believe it’s more important to focus on what customers want than trust your inner instinct and your own creativity. On the toadstool day, you will have had enough. You’ll decide it will be your last ever fondant cake. And you’ll worry you’ll never be asked to make a bespoke cake again.You tentatively pitch your first real design idea to a customer. And they say yes. As does another. But you lack the confidence to really push something different. Sales are slow – less than £300 a month – and your savings are plummeting. You worry you’ll have to go back to the fondant cakes, or work for someone else. Worse, your kids will realise dreams don’t come true. But you are about to meet someone who will unlock your business puzzle. You will rope in your cousin to take part in the first Great British Bake Off spin-off, Bake Off: Crème de la Crème. It’s another “why not” moment of yours. Cherish Finden is one of the stern-looking judges and will become an inspiration; a mentor. Cherish’s creations are unique. She loves working with chocolate, studied art, and sees patisserie as an art too. She follows no obvious market trends, Pinterest boards or Pantone shades. Her chocolate displays are out of this world, including a huge 3D chocolate steam train for Christmas, with chocolate wagons and presents. Her creations are colourful and fun. But she also uses classic techniques and recipes. And precision. This will be the moment you’ll look up and think: “Yes”. You don’t have to follow anyone. You can nurture your own quirky style and be successful. Meeting her will give that boost of confidence you needed to believe in yourself. Eighteen months after you meet her, customers will come to you specifically because they love your style and your chocolate work. They will describe your cakes as works of art. There are times you will still worry about cashflow and growing your business, but have patience. Rome wasn’t built in a day. Whenever your vision crumbles a little, just take another look at that chocolate train to get right back on track. Keep letting life take you where it wants to. It will all fall into place. Carpe Diem.LaureLaure Moyle is the founder of Pudding Fairy.Are you an entrepreneur who would like to write a letter to your younger self? Email us at smallbusinessnetwork@theguardian.com to take part in this series.Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.