It’s a balmy afternoon in Brooklyn and Grace Sewell, better known simply by her first name, is relaxing at her hotel in Williamsburg. “I’ve been back and forth between here and London about five times this month,” she notes. “Life is pretty crazy at the moment.”The 19-year-old is criss-crossing the globe in support of her hit You Don’t Own Me, the cover of a 1963 track by Lesley Gore, who died last year. Grace’s version, which features a verse from the rapper G Eazy, became a top 10 hit across the globe, earning a gold disc in the United States. It has now had a renewed lease of life after being featured on the soundtrack to Suicide Squad, currently No 1 in the US album chart. The idea to re-do Gore’s classic came from Quincy Jones, who masterminded such pop landmarks as Michael Jackson’s Thriller album – and who produced the original. “He wanted to remake the record for a while but never found the right singer or fit,” Grace explains. “Quincy felt the song’s message was one that should be reiterated for this generation.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Gore’s version, which featured lyrics of female empowerment which were bold by the standards of the time, was released just weeks after the assassination of John F Kennedy. It reached the top of the American charts and was only kept from the No 1 spot by the Beatles. Gore was 17 when she recorded the song – the same age as Grace. It was Jones’s idea to turn Grace’s cover into a tribute to Gore after the singer died in February 2015. “I’ve never met someone more accomplished than Quincy Jones,” Grace says of the producer, who has worked with everyone from New Order to Miles Davis. “He’s a household name and legend and arguably one of the greatest producers of all time, but when you sit and talk with him you find that he’s so down to earth and real. He’s all about the music and wants people to learn their craft.”Grace grew up in a creative household in Brisbane, Australia. “My father sings, my grandparents were singers, and my mom was one of those woman who will keep herself busy doing anything from painting to writing poetry or books,” she says. Her brother Conrad is also a pop star. His song Firestone, a collaboration with the Norwegian producer Kygo, was a worldwide hit two years ago.Grace: FMA review – sultry soul with a full-throttle voice “When I was a kid I always wanted to entertain and show off and do stupid dances or whatever,” she says of her childhood. “I started taking music seriously when I was 14, which is when I signed my first publishing deal and began collaborating with producers and writers, but I couldn’t focus on music full time.” Grace waited until she finished school to dive headfirst into the industry, and was promptly whisked to New York and signed by RCA Records. The unexpected viral success of You Don’t Own Me lead to the release her debut album FMA (short for Forgive My Attitude) this summer. It features songs she’s been working on for the bulk of her life. “I’ve always been subconsciously writing,” she says. “I’ve had a ton of music backed up for many years and as soon as I signed a deal, I was in the studio all the time. We’re just lucky that I already had a body of work because once You Don’t Own Me got traction and people began to find out who I was and search me out, we had it all ready to go.”Later today, Grace is headed for some meetings with her label (“boring stuff”), and after she’ll perhaps visit the pier in Williamsburg which features panoramic views of the Manhattan skyline. “It’s all still very surreal to me,” she says. “When you remake a song it can go one or two ways. People can either appreciate it or be like why did you mess with the original? The saving grace with You Don’t Own Me is that it’s so powerful and so timeless. I don’t want to take any credit, the song was already there and now people are connecting with it again. Whenever you have a record that people can understand and feel, it always does well.”