What was the first record or cd you bought?A Barbara Streisand CD, in the 80s. I think it was either Guilty or Memory.What’s your musical guilty pleasure?Romanian artists - especially Faramita Lambru, Zavaidoc, Cristian Vasile and Jean Moscopol.Is applauding between movements acceptable?I am a defender of applause, yes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest BBC documentary: Being a DivaWhat single thing would improve the format of the classical concert?Well, two things actually: the venues, and the way artists dress.What’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?An open-air concert that featured Luciano Pavarotti, Sting and Shirley Bassey. I remember at the rehearsal Shirley Bassey sang the whole concert she was supposed to do that evening, and that she was very friendly to me and my cousin Florentina.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gheorghiu as Tosca, with Samuel Youn as Scarpia, in Jonathan Kent’s production at the Royal Opera House, January 2016. Photograph: Catherine AshmoreWe’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why?The period of Louis XIV, with Lully, Molière and Racine – because I consider it a very creative period and I like its style.Which conductor or performer of yester-year do you most wish you could have worked with?I wish I could have worked with Arturo Toscanini. As for singers, it has to be Enrico Caruso and Franco Corelli.What is the best new piece written in the past 50 years?Marius et Fanny by Vladimir Cosma (2007).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What’s the most overrated classical work? - ie is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to?John Adams’ Nixon in China. I really see it as a problem in contemporary music. I would hope that generally contemporary composers get better knowledge of composing for the human voice.Which non-classical musician would you love to work with?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dream team: Lady Gaga and Elton John at the 2016 Vanity Fair Oscar Party. Photograph: Karwai Tang/WireImageElton John. Because in the pop genre he is the most prolific, cultivated musician, he is capable to surprise me with his eclecticism. I have the same opinion of Sting and Lady Gaga. I dream to collaborate with them.Imagine you’re a festival director here in London with unlimited resources. What would you programme - or commission - for your opening event?I would commission an opera based on the life of the Austrian Empress Sisi.It’s late, you’ve had a few beers, you’re in a Karaoke bar. What do you choose to sing?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Marioara de la Gorj.Marioara de la Gorj (a Romanian folksong), Gloria Gaynor and maybe some Frank Sinatra.Angela Gheorghiu performs at the Royal Festival Hall, London on Monday 25 April.