 Even the constellations can see us now: we are seventeen and shattered and still dancing. We have messy, throbbing hearts and we are stronger than anyone could ever know.For the first few days before I actually opened the book, I found myself staring wistfully at that cover – it is minimal and colourful and so so so gorgeous. Not to mention, as an afterthought, a perfect summary of the book.So, what do I think of my first Emery Lord book? I wish for nothing. How could I dare? How could I dare, when I have all this?Vivi Alexander (aka Phoebe Buffay from Friends) took all of seven days to commit a part of her ever-wandering soul to Verona Cove. A secluded town in California, it’s not at all what you would expect.It makes you feel like you’ve entered another world. And maybe she did…Jonah Daniels is a townie. For all his life, Verona Cove has been his home, and his life was set in stone. Until his father, his rock, died from a heart attack and left him stranded with no way back, and a family of six to manage. He’s been surviving, and not living, until the tornado called Vivi bursts into his life.Vivi and Jonah are different; they aren’t afraid of the dark places and most of all, they know how to do what the other needs; they know how to listen.And When We Collided is a love story for the ages.While this was a lot deeper than I expected, I had certain likes and dislikes that I must talk about:What I liked about the Collision:1. JONAH AND THE DANIELS FAMILY: This was the BEST part of the book. I ADORED that Jonah’s five siblings had such a big part in in the book. They were there for a lot of the scenes, not forgotten and ALWAYS in the fun. They were boisterous, well-rounded characters and I won’t forget them for a while to come.2. COVER LOVE: You know what I’m talking about right?3. THE ROMANCE: *Warning* this book contains some serious Insta-Love, but it was quite well done, and I ACTUALLY DIDN’T MIND IT. I would, usually, be ranting about how IT JUST DOESN’T HAPPEN LIKE THAT, but Emery Lord made this BELIEVABLE (??) (MAJOR POINTS HERE)What I didn’t like about the Collision:1. MENTAL HEALTH: I might’ve started this book with the prior knowledge that Vivi was *spoiler* bipolar, but I don’t think not knowing would have differed how I feel about it now.It felt like these elements were there, BUT NOT ENOUGH OF THEM. NOT NEARLY. There was even some depression, but it just felt so RUSHED.It just felt like it was a quirk to give the characters some more depth, and not something genuine. It was well done, but not enough.Four stars, THERE WAS CHEMISTRY, an AMAZING family, almost there mental health issues and SUCH AN EATABLE COVER!Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop