The mournful sound of strings wash over the chapel as we enter. White flowers plucked from two coffins on either side of the door are handed to us by a woman in a black veil; another woman, with fake black blood dripping from one eye, cheerfully checks my coat. A string quartet is made up to look like cadavers, with wispy grey hair framing whitened faces and darkened eyes. They’re joined by a vampiric choir at the altar, bedecked in white candles and black velvet.This is Tasmanian festival Dark Mofo’s one-off Funeral Party: a gothic ball dripping in dark excess, with morbid, immersive performance art in every nook and coffin. But we’ve arrived a little earlier than we should have, and like the first moments of all big events the mood is eerie. The location doesn’t help.“Well,” I hear someone say, “it certainly is a funeral home.” Dark Mofo 2016: an opening weekend of endurance, immersion and dark art We place our flowers at a tombstone in front of the quartet and look up; a red-lit installation reads “Lost Without You”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Strings on Fire play the Funeral Party held at Turnbull Family Funerals on 16 June. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaAfter 80 years in business, Turnbull Family Funerals remains the only funeral parlour in Hobart with an on-site crematorium. There’s something undeniably unsettling about the concept of a fancy dress party held in an operating funeral home, themed “dress to kill” (the only information attendees are given in advance). Would we be making an inappropriate mockery of mourning, in a house of mourning? Would it bring back dark memories of funerals we’d attended? Would it matter if it did?We don’t have long to think on that. Soon the room is packed, moody and completely dark, filled with black veils, black lace, black lipstick, gowns and capes. People have gone all out with the costumes. Candles and red lights bounce off the black velvet as performance artists weave through the crowd in gas masks, cloaks and black full-body suits with faceless, misshapen heads. A woman smears blood-red caviar on to the back of my hand, inviting me to lick it off. Another offers me a shot of borscht, and vodka “tears” administered via a dripper. “And here’s a tissue to wipe those tears away,” she says. I laugh self-consciously. But I take the tissue.I’d imagine this is what Baz Luhrmann’s funeral might be like, if he produced and cast it and enlisted Catherine Martin for set design. (Which does in fact seem like the kind of thing he’d do.)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sfumato Hair performs a funereal day spa. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaThe party plays out as a series of snippets, in a Sleep No More-esque way: I stand over two nude dancers entwined on the floor, who writhe on a pile of long-stemmed white flowers (Shian Law and Jo Lloyd). I follow a procession of black cloaks topped with white animal skulls up a dimly lit stairwell. In one room, a big bearded goth in a long black skirt is dancing to industrial drum jazz, played by nude musicians. In another room, curated by performance artist David Capra, artists paint portraits of dearly departed dogs and cats. We lie in coffins and look up at an infinity mirror, which makes it seem like we’ll be in there forever (House of Unholy), or lie on what looks suspiciously like a mortuary trolley for a “dark cold day spa”, where coins are placed on the eyes instead of cucumber (Sfumato). Up another flight of stairs, small audiences are guided through a deathly meditation; we watch a man get “embalmed” under a white sheet, woven with sequins and threads.“Does anyone know if there is a cloakroom?” someone asks.“Death is a cloakroom,” someone else replies. Like most of the art tonight, the joke is absurdly dark and a little nonsensical, but I spend longer thinking about it than I would anywhere else. Each ticket holder was asked to choose their own funeral song in advance, which rings out from the DJ in the main chapel – a taste of their very own funeral. “An excellent choice!” proclaims my friend when Riders on the Storm drifts towards us. She chose Tool’s Lateralus, which hits at about midnight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chelsea Wolfe plays the Funeral Party. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaTime moves strangely at this party. At one point, we lean over a coffin at the balcony to watch a surprise set by America’s underground gothic queen, Chelsea Wolfe. A woman in the crowd is wearing a lit-up lampshade and swaying her heavy head back and forth; next to her is a man in antlers, and another whose cape has spikes on each shoulder which look almost lethal in the tightly packed crowd.I move downstairs to get a closer look, but a Chinese dragon comes out of nowhere to dance at me instead. The room has been taken over by the faceless men and women of Denver’s avant-garde performance art/electronic group, Itchy-O. Some carry gramophones on their backs, or theremins and sound desks on their fronts. They’re accompanied by a tribal drum corps wearing gimp costumes and black sombreros. The dragon watches us dance from the balcony above. I briefly wonder how it got upstairs so quickly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Itchy-O take over the main chapel floor of Turnbull Family Funerals. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaThe architecture of the building is almost as bewildering as the night itself – all corridors and stairwells and dimly lit small rooms, twists and turns and balconies. I can’t work out what it reminds me of until I return the next afternoon, and Scott Turnbull – the manager of the funeral parlour – tells me I’m standing in the first high school that was ever built in Hobart; the building turned 100 this year.Turnbull has the wired and unblinking blue eyes of a man who hosted a multisensory performative death festival in his workplace and hasn’t slept for three nights straight. We’re sitting in an arrangement room downstairs, where countless locals have met with his staff to talk through a final farewell. Before entering the family business some 25 years ago, Scott was in the furniture industry; the antique table we’re sitting at was restored at his hand.The memories from the Funeral Party will linger with Scott for far longer than the deep purple stains in his carpet. The comedown is real. “My brain is still settling back into an adjusted position,” he says earnestly. “But it will be a good one. It’s got extra layers of knowledge about people around it now.”Turnbull Family Funerals have been intertwined with Hobart’s Museum of Old and New Art (Mona) in winter festival Dark Mofo since lending them props in 2013, but they’ve been doing “work” (read: funerals) for Mona staff members for much longer than that. For him, the Funeral Party was about more than the gothic pageantry and taboo art that Hobart is becoming known for; it was about a community coming together to demystify a shared reality that is integral to not just his business, but to his entire worldview. Scott takes his job as seriously as anyone in his line of work should. More than once when I use the word “death”, he corrects me gently: “Life.”“You say death. I call it life. And we as a community [need to] get to a point where we understand that ‘death’ is just a day ... If people get to know death in their normal life, when it comes to you, you’re much more prepared.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It wasn’t just a party’: dance duo Glitter and Snatch perform at the Funeral Party. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/Mona“It wasn’t just a party,” he says. “At our funeral home we believe that every goodbye is different and needs to be unique. And letting 800 people come into that space last night to display their form of unique adds a layer to that idea of a ‘celebration’ of life that the funeral business always talks about.” There was celebration at the party, absolutely. There was pageantry. There was experiential theatre. A select few people were invited to tour the crematory, and others stepped into the back of a hearse to record their last words. At the blurry end of the night, there was a woman in antlers and a silver leotard from dance duo Glitter and Snatch performing a chair dance to Ginuwine’s Pony on the chapel altar. I’m not sure what that part had to do with death, but it certainly was fun.Is a “celebration” of that scale appropriate for an operating funeral home? Absolutely, says Scott; after all, the party was not so different to funerals themselves. From the morbid lighting to the eulogy scripts, to the dark costumes to the emotional theatre, all funerals are, at essence, productions – and they often end in loud, drunken revelling. “From our perspective, last night was just an amplified version of what we believe we already do,” Scott says. “And that’s what I found exciting about it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Glitter and Snatch perform Pony at the altar of Turnbull Family Funerals. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaSkye Targett is a Hobart dweller who was also there that night and has been to the parlour before: her friend Lucy committed suicide, and the service was held at Turnbull’s. The room may have evoked difficult memories for her, but she didn’t find it confronting. “It was sort of uplifting,” she says. “It’s nice to see those spaces having more life, for want of a better word. There’s that sense of abandon that people invariably end up with at the end of the funeral – the stress relief. The climactic buildup to a festival, although its not funereal, has that kind of vibe, where it works itself up to a fever pitch.”Lucy’s wasn’t the only funeral Targett has attended. Her parents have both died, too. “I have come to a point with death where I feel that while we’re here, we should celebrate. So for me, it was the perfect place to have a party.”While the funeral parlour didn’t veto any of the night’s performances, Turnbull did take pains to ensure Dark Mofo understood his business values and would bring an appropriate level consideration to the proceedings. Specifically, he didn’t want an event that would shock for shock’s sake. “Dark Mofo had their product and what they needed it to be; they didn’t want to pollute ours, and we didn’t want to pollute theirs,” Turnbull explains.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You say death. I call it life’: a partygoer is ‘enbalmed’ by Julie Vulcan at Turnbull Family Funerals. Photograph: Rémi Chauvin/MonaWhen Turnbull says “I get the feeling you’d like to see the crematorium”, I nod with more enthusiasm than is appropriate. We walk through the rooms I danced in the night before, which are now bright, empty and somehow even more surreal because of it. Behind one of those mechanical curtains that always give me the creeps at funerals, he opens a fire-resistant door. I take a deep breath and step forward.The room is bare and concrete, with the bulky box of the crematory taking up most of the space. Scott presses a button that sends one side of it rolling upwards, like a tiny garage door of doom. Inside is another concrete room – just big enough for a body – and a smattering of ash. I think about where the ash is from and then I can’t stop thinking about it. But the room is cold and, as we continue talking, I find myself gravitating towards the crematory to warm the back of my legs.Fifteen lucky customers were invited into this room the night before, after being hand-delivered a key at the ball. Once there, Scott removed a tray of burning coals from the crematory and placed them on to a mortuary trolley. As they toasted marshmallows with him over the fire, the intimate audience was given five minutes to ask him anything they wanted to know about death, dying and funerals.“You’re allowed to see a carpenter’s shed,” Scott tells me the next day. “You’re allowed to see a fridge mechanic’s place. You can see everyone else’s work, but most of the time you can’t see ours ... Someone once said that knowledge is power and I suppose that’s another part of what we got out of some of those artworks; it made people ask us questions. “There was a lovely feeling about it. It actually felt beautiful.” • Guardian Australia travelled to Hobart as a guest of Mona