Saul Williams just finished his Reddit AMA. He’s a bit surprised by its monotony. Fans asked about working with Trent Reznor, how he felt about Bernie Sanders’ chances in New Hampshire (“Bernie’s chances are growing every day and I’m happy about that”), and his thoughts on Kanye West’s Yeezus.“The questions were all what I expected,” he says, almost annoyed. “They played it kind of safe.” Williams has forged a successful career doing just the opposite: he’s a poet, musician, actor, activist and an esteemed rapper who last released a full-length project in 2011, the hyper-experimental Volcanic Sunlight. Since then he’s been “shooting a film here” and “doing a play” and “then writing the book”, a collection of poetry called US(a.).Williams first wrote and starred in the 1998 film Slam, which won both Sundance’s Grand Jury Prize and Camera d’Or at Cannes. In its aftermath, he has emerged as a reluctant voice of the slam poetry movement and an outspoken activist for civil rights. His 2004 EP, Not in My Name, was made in protest of the Iraq war. His third book of poems, Said the Shotgun to the Head, dwelled on the politics of western life, even pondering the contradictions of the book being published by MTV. (Rage Against the Machine’s Zack de la Rocha described it as “a post-9/11 love song”.) Williams has performed with artists such as De la Rocha and System of a Down singer-songwriter Serj Tankian (who both appear on his self-titled 2004 album), protesting against American hegemony. (In the Reddit AMA, one redditor asked: “When are you releasing an album with Zack de la Rocha?” His response: “2003 or 4, we haven’t decided yet.”) Williams’s most notable collaborator is perhaps Reznor, the man behind industrial rock band Nine Inch Nails, with whom he worked very closely on 2007’s album The Inevitable Rise of NiggyTardust!, adapted from Said the Shotgun to the Head.  Just because someone’s an explorer doesn’t mean I’ll like it …the Paul McCartney and Rihanna shit was wack to me Williams’s music can be considered “difficult” or “challenging” (Amethyst Rockstar wasn’t too far away from Scott Walker’s more uncompromising work), and it is often at odds with the zeitgeist: noisy industrial rap for political reformists. Though they do markedly different things, Kendrick Lamar is testing the same waters Williams waded through back in the early 2000s. These days he’s been trying to strike the perfect balance. “I feel like my tendency is to make things more and more dense,” he says. “Now I’m tying my hands behind my back and leaving it sparse. What I’m learning now is when to shut the fuck up.”Kendrick Lamar galvanizes Grammys with politically charged performance The poet has released an album every few years in the past decade, starting with 2001’s Amethyst Rockstar, co-produced by Rick Rubin, and earned quite a reputation as one of rap’s most radical linguists. But he wasn’t always comfortable with that tag.“I was in grad school for acting. I spent all of my dream time thinking about acting, and I quit making music when I was 16 or 17. So poetry kind of snuck into my life. Before I knew it people were like, ‘Hey, you’re that poet!’ and I wasn’t sure about that. I had the credentials to refer to myself as an actor. I had this diploma to prove it. But as a poet, I don’t know.”Williams is a dynamic poet, one whose words are weighted heavily by rhythm and cadence, even when read internally. Some poems read as if the Mad Hatter studied verse. This translates to his rap work (such as on Ashes: “Here comes Lazarus / Triangulating green God / Dear Pythagoras, equal to the sum of what the matter is / What’s the matter?”). He diligently pursued a poetry education, choosing to indoctrinate himself on the art form, and lost himself in bookstores. “I never studied poetry in school so I felt like I had homework to do,” he said. “I have to live and write on a level if I’m to earn this thing I’m being called. But even though poetry was a worthwhile investment, it really came hand in hand with the music for me.” He starred in the 2014 Broadway musical Holla If Ya Hear Me, which adapted the music and lyrics of rapper 2Pac, and he initially spent time developing his new album, MartyrLoserKing, as a musical for the stage before considering it as a film. Unsurprisingly then, Williams has spent a significant portion of his career creating and interpreting characters, and MartyrLoserKing isn’t much of a deviation from that. It loosely tells the story of its titular character, a hacker from Burundi, seeking revolution.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Saul Williams: ‘I think this album is like a really good espresso or a nice after-dinner cognac.’ Photograph: Geordie Wood/freemanpr“MartyrLoserKing, just like NiggyTardust, is an otherworldly character,” Williams says. “MartyrLoserKing is closer to the world as we know it, but he still lives in a parallel universe. So there’s a certain freedom that I have there as opposed to the different structure regiment that I’d be forced to pay attention to if I was playing Miles Davis or something.”Theater, poetry and music are just three spokes on a creative wheel that is continuously turning for Williams, but he still often gets pigeonholed by his poetic roots. His music is seen as a vehicle for his messaging, and his musicianship can get lost in the shuffle. In truth, he usually makes his music with a sonic focus: writing placeholder raps in gibberish, playing the instruments on his demos, turning ideas into written drafts only after inspiration has struck. “I’m seldom thinking about the type of message that I want to put out,” he says. “It happens occasionally – like the Not in My Name stuff or something – but most of the time it’s music first and then I am responding to the music and doing what I think the music is asking me to do. What I feel is the freshest thing to correspond with that, and the reason why the subject matter is there is that it’s simply a reflection of whatever the fuck I’m thinking about in that moment.”The artist has absolutely no problem letting anyone know what he’s thinking at any moment and that’s part of his appeal; even when edgy and abrasive, he’s delivering straight talk. He’s as open discussing his impact on slam poetry as he is appraising how he appreciates music. “Today someone asked me: ‘What do you think of J Cole?’ and I told them I really love his spirit. Musically I don’t necessarily feel like he’s an explorer. He knows what he does. It’s fresh, but there’s a conservatism in it,” he said. “I’m into the explorers. André 3000 is an explorer. Even Kendrick Lamar, I would say, is an explorer. I think Earl Sweatshirt is an explorer.”Earl Sweatshirt on Hollywood parties, deconstructing Hermann Hesse and therapy He references New York rap trio Ratking as other musical conquistadors, and Kanye West. But there’s a caveat: “Just because someone’s an explorer doesn’t mean I’ll like it. I didn’t like those acoustic songs he did, you know the Paul McCartney and Rihanna shit? That was wack to me. But I don’t necessarily expect that everyone always feels me either.”More often than not, though, Williams has something to say, and it’s usually something worth hearing. “My poetry isn’t only words,” he once tweeted, and his music just happens to be another mouthpiece for that poetry. On a quick tangent, he tells a story that sums up the harsh and intense nature of his tunes. “When I was touring with Trent [Reznor], before we started NiggyTardust!, he was dating this girl who was deaf, and so she was at the shows and we would talk with T-Mobile Sidekicks,” he says. “She sat beside me and typed me and I’d get the message and write back, and that’s how we communicated. The second show we do together, me and CX were on stage in this crazy stadium performing, and I look to the side of the stage and I see Trent is there dancing and next to him I see her covering her ears in agony. It was the weirdest thing. It was the vibration, of course, but I remember realizing something was crazy about the sound of this.”When asked how he’d explain the eclectic soundscapes of MartyrLoserKing to a deaf person, Williams thinks carefully before responding: “This is corduroy, velvet, espresso. I’d hand them those thick red stage curtains, and maybe I’d take a didgeridoo and have them lay down under it. I’d describe it through texture, vibration and taste. I think this album is like a really good espresso or a nice after-dinner cognac.” It makes sense. Saul Williams takes taste very seriously.MartyrLoserKing is out now on Fader LabelSaul Williams plays Tattoo in Toronto on Thursday night; and his UK tour starts on 3 March at The Lantern, Bristol