One of the reasons David Peace writes novels is that he has had an unhappy relationship with theatre. His school acting debut “began as a speaking part but was cut in rehearsal”, and, after leaving college, he submitted a play about Charles II, called Restoration in Red, to the Royal Exchange, in Manchester.“The person who wrote back actually said that it was the worst play they had ever received. So that was the end of me and the theatre,” recalls Peace, via Skype from Tokyo, where the Yorkshire-born author now lives. In Japan, he has written a sequence of novels exploring aspects of working-class northern English culture in the 1970s, including GB 84, fictionalising the miners’ strike, and Red or Dead, a biographical faction about the celebrated Liverpool football manager, Bill Shankly.The Damned United, Peace’s novel about one of Shankly’s biggest managerial rivals, Brian Clough, now provides the opportunity for the writer’s theatrical restoration. The West Yorkshire Playhouse is presenting the first stage version, by the Leeds-based Red Ladder company, of Peace’s book. Between winning league titles and European Cups with Nottingham Forest and Derby County, the charismatic but alcoholic Clough was sacked after only 44 days in charge at Leeds United in 1974.The Nottingham and Derby playhouses have previously staged plays about Clough. But, whereas those were shows about a local footballing hero, Leeds supporters in the West Yorkshire Playhouse audience are likely to view Clough as a villain.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Graham Davies, left, with Andrew Lancel in rehearsals for The Damned United. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the Guardian“Absolutely. That’s the theatre in this piece for me,” says director Rod Dixon, during rehearsals. “Because, in Leeds, Clough is Richard III, Iago – all these people we find sexy on stage but are bastards. The first thing he says when he comes on and looks out at a Leeds audience is: ‘Hateful, hateful place. Spiteful, spiteful place.’ When Clough describes one of the Leeds players as a ‘dirty animal’, he’s going to point straight at some guy in the stalls.”“We want to use that hostility,” adds playwright Anders Lustgarten, who has adapted Peace’s book. “Make it like a football game, confrontational.” The cast came in to find that graffiti artists had painted the club's colours on a wall outside the theatre The production is part of a deliberate policy by the West Yorkshire Playhouse to schedule plays that draw on – and therefore draw in – the local community. And news of the show clearly seems to have reached the Leeds United ground, Elland Road. The cast came in one day to find that overnight graffiti artists had painted, on a long wall outside the theatre, a mural in the club’s white, blue and yellow colours, of the supporters’ anthem: “Marching on Together.” A delegation from the club is also coming to the opening night, although with the current Leeds owner Massimo Cellini having got through six managers in two years, Clough’s 44 days may now seem to represent impressive longevity.However, while happy if Leeds fans buy tickets, the creatives know that they will need a mixed crowd. “One of the things that the West Yorkshire Playhouse has been bending our ear about,” says Dixon, “is that there must be people in the audience who don’t like football. And so we’ve made this a play about a relationship.”As part of this strategy, in the WYP rehearsal room, Andrew Lancel, playing Clough, and Tony Bell, cast as the manager’s long-time assistant, Peter Taylor, are rehearsing a scene in which the men tearfully embrace after the death of Clough’s mother. Lustgarten’s view of the Clough-Taylor dynamic is that “Taylor is the only person – outside of his family – who understands Clough and stands by him. And, at the end, Taylor leaves him. So, in that sense, yes, it’s a sort of love story.”The Damned United was produced in the shadow of Red Ladder being denied permanent funding from Arts Council England. It has been widely reported that Peace, after hearing of the company’s cash crisis, offered the stage rights to his novel for one pound. However, the writer, from Tokyo, tells me that this is not quite true. “It was £3.63, actually,” he says. “I wanted to just give them the rights. But such is the nature of society that I literally couldn’t give it away. There has to be a contract, and the minimum you can sell something for is a pound. Someone at Faber said why not do the number of pages in the book, so it was £3.63.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I had it on good authority that Clough did swear’ … author David Peace. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianWhat has Peace spent his windfall on? “I don’t want to ruin Faber’s name, but I doubt I’ve received it yet. Look, I know this can all sound a bit Bono-esque: author donates theatrical rights! But to put it in perspective, the theatrical rights to novels aren’t what people outside the novel-writing business might imagine. Nobody actually wanted the stage rights to The Damned United. So, while I wanted to help, it wasn’t the hugest sacrifice on my part.”There’s a natural coalition between the leftwing politics of Red Ladder – “We want to make theatre that is political but also entertaining, a good night out,” says Dixon – and the recurrent concern with socialism in Peace’s novels.Clough – in common with Liverpool’s Shankly and Sir Alex Ferguson of Manchester United – was a man of the left, and the Red Ladder team see The Damned United as a political play, although the director admits: “It’s complicated because – certainly in the 70s and 80s – football fans were often openly racist, sexist, homophobic. But then you have these managers who are old-style socialists.”Posters warn that tickets are restricted to the over-14s because the play “contains strong language”. Among theatregoers likely to be deterred by this advice are the Clough family, who objected to their late relative being shown swearing in the dressing room scenes of the 2009 movie version of The Damned United, in which Michael Sheen wore Clough’s distinctive green sweatshirt. 'It’s still a bit wafty. We’ve got to make it more muscular'' Lustgarten is moved to very strong language by this issue, so his director diplomatically answers: “My attitude to the Clough family is that I don’t think they’ll come. But, look, I think it’s clear that swearing was part of dressing room culture.”Peace lets out a long-distance sigh on the subject: “Either naively or arrogantly – I really never imagined upsetting the Clough family with this. I had it on good authority from people who knew and worked with him that he did swear. So I suggested to Anders that he left the family out of it.”Completing a solid back three on this issue, Lustgarten tries to kick the issue into row Z: “It’s important to realise that this is my dramatic adaptation of David Peace’s novel. So a fiction from a fiction. But you can’t be held back in fact-based fiction by people’s idea of how they should be represented.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coming to grips … playwright Anders Lustgarten. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianThe cast includes several dancers, for whom pairs of ballet pumps designed to look like football boots are stored in a shoe-hanger in the corner of the room. The word “balletic” has become common to describe the passing movements of some clubs in particular – “I’m an Arsenal season ticket holder,” says Lustgarten, “and basically what we get is ballet followed by horrendous defensive mistakes” – and, in this production, the football matches will be simulated through modern dance.The playwright explains: “You can’t convincingly represent football on stage. It’s unbearably tedious, just actors knocking a ball about. So you need a figurative representation: so the football matches are represented by choreography. At first the dancers were doing football-like movements. But we said: you’re not representing football, you’re representing how it makes us feel.”David Peace: why I'm letting Red Ladder stage The Damned United “It’s still a bit wafty. We’ve got to make it more muscular,” cuts in Dixon, suggesting that he and Lustgarten are becoming a dreamer-pragmatist double act in the style of Clough and Taylor. While the main actor works on his portrayal of Clough as a captivating but arrogant maverick – “I am Cloughie!” – it is hard not to think of the contemporary football boss, José Mourinho, who in his two spells at Chelsea has often seemed like a Clough with a sensible attitude to booze.David Peace agrees that the parallel is tempting: “When I was writing the book, 10 years ago, it was before Mourinho in his pomp. But when I did interviews with journalists in Spain when the book came out there, all the questions were about Mourinho.”Might Peace ever consider fiction about the special one? “I’m into trilogies and even quartets, so never say never. But I can think of a football manager much more interesting to write about than Mourinho.” Alex Ferguson? “Um, I think the less said at this stage, the better.”• The Damned United is at the West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, 4 March to 2 April and at Derby theatre, 7-16 April.• This article was amended on 1 March 2016. An earlier version twice referred to Red Ladder company as Red Letter.