When Harrison Knights takes to the stage of the Hackney Empire in London this Friday, to star in the National Youth Music Theatre production of Brass, he will become the first out transgender person to perform in an NYMT show. He is also, as far as he knows, one of the few openly trans people to be performing in musical theatre in the UK.At 5ft 5in, Knights is the shortest male cast member in Brass. According to the female cast members, who ranked the facial hair the men had to grow for the show, he has the second most impressive beard. He also has one of the lowest vocal ranges. After taking cross-sex hormones, he found that his voice dropped a full octave from an alto to a bass range, and his worry now is that it may be too low for many musical theatre roles. During Brass’s original run in Leeds in 2014, for which it won best musical production at the UK theatre awards, Knights played flugelhorn in the band. Now, the 21-year-old has moved out of the orchestra pit to play one of the young men in the Leeds brass band who enlist for the first world war and eventually go over the top in the Battle of the Somme.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Musical theatre actor Harrison Knights. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianKnights, a music student at Birmingham conservatoire, grew up in Tewkesbury in Gloucestershire. He came out as trans at the age of 15 and began living as male at the age of 18. “It’s a really positive story. My family have been fabulous. I’m the son of two priests … A lot of people think that might be difficult, but at the end of the day they’re counsellors, that’s what their job is, and they’re fabulous in pastoral care. I’ve had such a – it wasn’t easy, but a – supported time,” he says.Knights has always been musical: he was a chorister in his parents’ church and took up playing cornet at the age of eight. While he was drawn to acting, it is only now that he feels comfortable enough to pursue it. “The idea of being cast in roles that weren’t suited to how I perceived my gender in my head was really difficult. I just couldn’t play female roles, so that’s why I did more and more music. It was a way of expressing myself without any gender constructs,” he says.Brass is, according to the show’s writer Benjamin Till, a “gender-bending” production – as the men go off to war, the women left behind learn to play their brass instruments, forming their own band in their breaks from work in the munitions factory.The fact that Knights plays brass instruments works in his favour – he performs his flugelhorn on stage and has been teaching brass to many of the female cast members, most of whom have had to learn to play from scratch. The show also has a large-scale choral score, with rich harmonies, which works for Knights’ classically trained voice, he thinks.Director Hannah Chissick, who did not know Knights was trans when she auditioned him, says there was one other thing that won the part for him. “This is absolutely true, when we were talking about the cast, I said: ‘It’d be really good to have someone like Harry in the cast, because he’s got a real male energy, I really like it.’”“You did not say that,” Knights interrupts, laughing.“I did, I did say that,” she says. “And then [Benjamin Till, the writer] told me [that Knights was trans] and I said, ‘Oh brilliant, well I still think we could do with that real male energy.’” While trans performers are beginning to be visible, particularly in television, musical theatre has proved a difficult genre for trans actors to break into, which is a shame given how theatre has been such a crucial place for the exploration of gender fluidity, Knights says.“Obviously in pantomime and Shakespeare, people play the opposite gender all the time, but within the identity of the players, I don’t know of many [trans people in musical theatre],” he says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Harrison Knights in rehearsals for Brass. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianKnights thinks this might have to do with the fact that “the trans voice is really difficult – trans women often go through speech therapy because their voices don’t un-break, as it were, so there’s that question of can a trans woman play Fantine in Les Mis for instance? Is that possible? I hope it is and I’m sure it will be at some point,” he says.For trans men, taking cross-sex hormones means their voices often deepen, and Knights says he knows trans men who have lost their singing voices after transition, ending up with “an airy tenor”.Knights would like to see more roles in musical theatre made available to trans actors and understands the frustration when the few transgender characters are played by cisgender actors, as was the case when Eddie Redmayne, another NYMT alumnus, played trans woman Lili Elbe in The Danish Girl last year.“You cannot understand transition unless you’ve gone through it. You just can’t. You will never know what it feels like to be trapped in the wrong body. So trying to tap into that when you’re acting can be really difficult unless you are a superb actor, as I think Eddie Redmayne is. It feels a little like, why can’t we have the chance – and there aren’t enough chances for us yet.”Brass is at Hackney Empire, London, 26 and 27 August. Box office: 020-8985 2424.