James Joyce’s first novel, A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man, was published in the United States on 29 December 1916. Although Joyce did not conceive his novel as a commentary on the events of that turbulent year, the centenary of its publication seems to me a curiously apt way to bring 2016 to a close, given the manner in which the issues of national identity Joyce raises have come back into vogue in this year of Brexit.Is James Joyce's Ulysses the hardest novel to finish? A Portrait tracks the life of budding writer Stephen Dedalus (aka Joyce) prior to his departure from Ireland for the continent in 1904. The book’s first four chapters deal with Joyce’s childhood, his agonised wrestle with religion and the emergence of his proudly independent artistic personality. Its concluding chapter, set during Joyce’s student years, recreates some of the arguments about Irish identity that formed a backdrop to the Easter Rising of 1916.Growing up in late 19th-century Ireland, Joyce perceived that “nets” of “nationality, language and religion” were flung at his soul, “to hold it back from flight”. He was determined to free himself from such restraints and “to forge in the smithy of my soul” Ireland’s “uncreated conscience”. The very things Joyce saw as restrictive nets spurred contemporaries of his, such as Patrick Pearse, into action at Easter 1916.Joyce was coming into his own at a time of burgeoning political interest in Ireland’s cultural identity, something that had not been a feature of the pragmatic, parliamentary nationalism of Daniel O’Connell and his successors who represented Irish interests at Westminster throughout the 19th century. Joyce’s father’s political hero, Charles Stewart Parnell, had fallen from grace in 1890, a political earthquake memorably dramatised in A Portrait’s Christmas dinner scene, where Ireland’s moralistic Catholic bishops are blamed for Parnell’s demise. New cultural/political movements were on the rise at the turn of the century – the Gaelic League dedicated to the revival of the Irish language and the Gaelic Athletic Association with its mission to promote Gaelic football and hurling. Many of those who took part in the Easter Rising were nursed into public life through cultural activity. The young Joyce sniffed a narrowness of vision among his contemporaries and was having none of it In the concluding chapter of A Portrait, the author is urged to conform to an emerging Irish zeitgeist. “Try to be one of us,” he is told. “In your heart you are an Irishman but your pride is too powerful.” While many of his contemporaries “worshipped the sorrowful legend of Ireland”, as he put it, he was forward-looking, wanting to embrace “the loveliness which has not yet come into the world”.The young Joyce sniffed a narrowness of vision among his contemporaries and was having none of it, as a sarcastic diary entry at the end of A Portrait illustrates: “John Francis Mulrennan has just returned from the west of Ireland. European and Asiatic papers please copy.”Joyce, self-consciously cosmopolitan and European, had his misgivings about the direction in which Yeats had taken Irish literature, with his focus on Celtic mythology and rural life. Joyce made more of an effort at learning Ibsen’s Norwegian than Ireland’s native language. Years later in Ulysses, he devoted much of the Cyclops episode to lampooning the supposedly one-eyed excesses of “the Citizen”, his caricatured epitome of early 20th-century nationalism.James Joyce spent the last 37 years of his life in Trieste, Rome, Paris and Zurich, where he died in 1941, but it was the Dublin he left behind and not those continental cities that fired his imagination. Viewing it from exile gave him a distinctive take on the land of his birth. The three main characters in his novels were all set apart by their foreign associations – Stephen Dedalus (Greek name), Leopold Bloom (Hungarian, Jewish background) and his wife, Molly (born in Gibraltar). The character in A Portrait who connects it with the events of 1916 in Ireland is, ironically, the ebullient internationalist McCann. He was based on one of Joyce’s contemporaries at university, the radical pacifist and suffragist Francis Sheehy-Skeffington, who was summarily executed by a British officer during Easter week, even though he had taken no part in the rising. In the novel, McCann rebukes the protagonist and budding writer Dedalus for being “an anti-social being” whereas he is for “liberty and equality among all classes and sexes in the United States of Europe of the future”. Now where have I heard those words before?In A Portrait, Joyce presents his youthful self as torn between various identities, devoutly Catholic and free-thinking, Irish and European. Although Joyce spent most of his life outside of Ireland, it would be wrong to conclude that he was uninterested in Irish affairs. In a series of essays he wrote for a local newspaper in Trieste, his analysis of Irish history comes across as being within the nationalist mainstream.Among the political figures of his time, the one he had most regard for was Arthur Griffith, founder of the original Sinn Féin movement, who advocated abstention from Westminster and a dual monarchy. From his years in Trieste, a city then in Austria-Hungary, Joyce knew a lot about the multinational empire he gently admired, and in Ulysses he jokingly maintains that his fictional character Leopold Bloom had given Griffith the idea of Ireland seeking to emulate Hungary’s success in securing a form of independence in 1867.Why, 100 years after the Easter Rising, are Irish women still fighting? | Olivia O’Leary At the end of a year shaped for me by Ireland’s commemoration of the Easter Rising and the British debate about Europe, I find in Joyce, the European Irishman, an accommodating reference point. Our 1916 centenary commemoration was scrupulously inclusive as we acknowledged the complexities of that year of war and insurrection.Although his restless imagination would surely find fault with aspects of today’s world, I like to think that Joyce would approve of the fact that his homeland is now at ease with a pluralist Irish identity comfortably anchored in Europe. It seems right at the close of a troubled 2016 to celebrate Joyce’s literary achievement and the broadmindedness with which he imbued his principal characters, Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Joyce devoted much of the Cyclops episode of Ulysses to lampooning early 20th-century nationalism.’ Photograph: Richard Saker for the Observer