Born in Cardiff, Cerys Matthews, 47, fronted the 90s band Catatonia. She now hosts an award-winning radio show on BBC 6 Music, runs The Good Life Experience festival, which takes place in Flintshire in September, is an ambassador for the low-emission car campaign Go Ultra Low , and writes and presents documentaries. She is married, has three children and lives in London.When were you happiest?Now, by far. Old enough to know time’s short, young enough to use it.What is your greatest fear?Cheesy tortilla chips: they are the devil’s work, but turn up in every dressing room.What is your earliest memory?A pig jumping out of a farm trailer.Which living person do you most admire, and why?President Jimmy Carter, for his single-handedness in working to eradicate the guinea worm.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Narcissism.What would your super power be?To level the playing field in terms of education.What makes you unhappy?That history keeps repeating itself.If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?Chemical-free farming.Who would play you in the film of your life?Humphrey Bogart.What is your favourite smell?Home-grown tomatoes.What is your favourite word?“Chitterling”.What did you want to be when you were growing up?Bob Dylan. It was a bit of a challenge – I was called Squeaky at school, because of my voice, and I drank whiskey and smoked to make it lower and sound more Dylanesque. It obviously didn’t work.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?“Sorry, the system won’t allow me to do that.”What is top of your bucket list?To see the BBC ring-fenced and safe-guarded for future generations.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Fires: I love lighting them and cooking outside. I have a tripod contraption, a kotlich, to cook over flames.What do you owe your parents?The Welsh language and a love of southern Indian curry.What or who is the love of your life?The miracle of life itself: sunrises, tides, storms, all of it.Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?Louis Armstrong, Sidney Bechet, Jimmy Carter, Keith Moon and Judy Garland.What is the worst job you’ve done?I did a pretty bad job of being famous. It’s much better now on the production side of things.Eddie Izzard: ‘The greatest love of my life? My mother' If you could edit your past, what would you change?I’d be born a man and have a wife to run the house.What single thing would improve the quality of your life?A halter for global mega companies, and the return of community. Throw in an ironing board that does the ironing and a floor that self-cleans.What do you consider your greatest achievement?I cook a mean dal.What keeps you awake at night?Unfinished songs.What song would you like played at your funeral?Dylan’s I’ll Be Your Baby Tonight.Tell us a jokeQ: How can you tell when your drummer’s awake?A: He’s dribbling out of both sides of his mouth.