The next expansion pack for Hearthstone, Blizzard’s hugely popular collectible card video game, will be called Whispers of the Old Gods and will launch towards the end of April or the beginning of May, the company has announced.Based around Warcraft’s Lovecraftian-style elder gods, C’Thun, Yogg-Saron, N’Zoth and Y’Shaarj, the expansion will bring a further 144 cards to the game, including a number of “corrupted” versions of previous minions. A selection of the new cards were revealed to journalists and community members at Blizzard’s headquarters in Los Angeles on Tuesday.The expansion will also launch alongside the long-awaited introduction of rotation in Hearthstone. Announced in February, the change will see around 150 cards retired from the main format, renamed “Standard”. The entirety of the Curse of Naxxramas and Goblins v Gnomes expansions are being rotated out, but those cards will still be playable for the foreseeable future in the new “Wild” format.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hearthstone minion Corrupted Healbot. Photograph: BlizzardThe thematic heart of the new expansion, described by lead designer Benjamin Brode as “the darkest thing Hearthstone will ever do”, is split between two concepts: the old gods and their followers, and the corrupting effect they have on the denizens of the Warcraft world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hearthstone minion Polluted Hoarder. Photograph: BlizzardThat corrupting effect leads to minions like “Polluted Hoarder”, a spin on the conventional “Loot Hoarder”, and “Corrupted Healbot”, whose deathrattle heals the opponent for 8 health. The latter minion, a corrupted version of Hearthstone mainstay Antique Healbot, also underlines Blizzard’s insistence that they won’t be using newer packs to simply reprint cards which have been rotated out of older ones.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hearthstone minion C’Thun. Photograph: BlizzardAntique Healbot, which will leave Standard play when the Goblins v Gnomes expansion does, is regularly used in a number of popular deck archetypes. Those decks will be forced to change greatly when the expansion pack comes out in the spring.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hearthstone minion Beckoner of Evil Photograph: BlizzardThe Old Gods, meanwhile, were demonstrated with reference to C’Thun, Initially underpowered, C’Thun is backed up by its cultists, such as Beckoner of Evil and Twilight Elder.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hearthstone minion Twilight Elder. Photograph: BlizzardBoth the cultists affect the C’Thun, wherever it is: in the player’s deck hand, or on the board, leading to decks built around building the minion up to terrifying levels before unleashing huge amounts of damage in one turn.Uniquely for Hearthstone, C’Thun and two copies of Beckoner of Evil will be given to every player for free when they open their first Whispers of the Old Gods booster pack. Brode explained that the motivation for the giveaway is to ensure that every player can play with C’Thun, since 16 of the 134 new cards introduced in the expansion interact with it in some way. The rest of the cards will be earned in the same way as every other Hearthstone expansion, however, through packs of five costing 69p or 100 in-game gold. Returning players will also get three free packs at launch.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hearthstone minion Validated Doomsayer. Photograph: BlizzardThe last card revealed at the event was also one of the last developed internally, and is another spinoff of an earlier card. But rather than being corrupted, “Validated Doomsayer” is just very, very happy. He’s been predicting doom for years, and finally he’s got it right – causing him to turn into a five mana 0/7 with text reading “at the start of your turn set this minion’s Attack to 7”.• Alex Hern attended a press event in Los Angeles, with travel and accommodation costs met by Blizzard. 