Urban contemporary album      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   All eyes on her: Beyoncé is the clear favourite in urban contemporary categories. Photograph: Frank Micelotta/Rex/ShutterstockIn an era when both artists and listeners are happy to erode strict genre boundaries, the Grammys’ arcane subdivisions look ever more nonsensical. Exactly how the urban contemporary album category differs from the R&B album category is a perennial mystery, and this year separation seems mostly based on whether a record received any critical or commercial success rather than any traditionalist v modern divide. By contrast, the two most interesting urban contemporary nominations are ambitious, innovative debuts that are also firmly rooted in the genre’s history. Gallant’s Ology was an exquisitely detailed, self-contained world that cast the Maryland singer as a worthy successor to auteurs such as Maxwell. Meanwhile, an infamously unhurried approach resulted in a masterpiece from LA trio and sometime Prince proteges King: five years may have elapsed since the first single from We Are King, but clearly those sumptuous harmonies and glorious psychedelic swirls couldn’t be hurried.We Are King would be a thoroughly deserving winner, but pointing out that this era – in urban contemporary, R&B and for that matter beyond both – belongs to Beyoncé is less an argument and more a statement of the bleeding obvious. In 2016 she followed one career-defining magnum opus with another. Lemonade was the more restless, radical cousin of her 2013 self-titled statement of supremacy, and also happened to showcase her mastery of multiple artistic formats working in sync with each other. Beyoncé’s imperial phase is a privilege to witness, and the Grammys will surely want to rectify the deeply strange decision to snub her in favour of Pharrell’s insufferable cornfest Girl in 2015.Should win – Beyoncé, LemonadeWill win – Beyoncé, LemonadeOverlooked – Tweet, CharleneR&B song      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bryson Tiller, Drake impersonator du jour. Photograph: Danny Moloshok/ReutersFittingly for such a gloomy year, Drake’s shadow loomed everywhere in 2016: he’s been a staple nominee in rap rather than R&B categories since the start of his career, but his torpid tempos and submarine synths have been leaking out and staining the rest of the furniture in recent years. Cases in point: pallid mimics PartyNextDoor and Bryson Tiller both feature here. The former is aided by Drake in person; the latter has no need of that, given that his imitation game reaches Single White Female levels. Both follow in their template’s footsteps by moping interminably and without variation about their callow feelings; the only sympathy engendered is for the women unlucky enough to be on the receiving end of their whines.The best R&B of 2016 has nothing to do with Frank Ocean It’s a shame that, of Rihanna’s 2016 singles, Needed Me wasn’t nominated here: its acid-tongued chorus is a perfect riposte to Drake’s gaslighting wave, an elegantly written evisceration of the woe-is-me bros. Kiss It Better is crafted less carefully – was there not time to write a second verse, then? – but its gigantic power ballad chorus engulfs any quibbles. Instead, R&B’s model of masculinity is salvaged in contrasting ways by fellow men. Forty-three-year-old Maxwell glides sweetly above the youngsters’ petty squabbles, but 24-year-old Tory Lanez matches his devotion and sets it in a bewitching and thoroughly modern sonic context, all tactile bass, acres of space and judicious humming.Meanwhile, 2016’s mini-trend of R&B artists dabbling in country may be limited to only a handful of names so far – Miguel, Beyoncé, K Michelle – but it’s already proving to be a delight; former American Idol winner Fantasia’s Ugly was a particular triumph, a none-more-country tale of self-loathing and abuse that switches into a paean to simple living and good food.Should win – Tory Lanez, LuvWill win – Rihanna, Kiss It BetterOverlooked – Fantasia, UglyRap album      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keys open doors … DJ Khaled. Photograph: John Salangsang/Invision/APAuteurism is at a peak, one might think by glancing at this year’s best rap album nominees, where sprawling, pan-genre efforts packed to the brim with wide-ranging guests dominate. But the underlying reason might be more prosaic. Changes to Billboard’s chart rules in 2014 to take into account streaming as well as album sales were unavoidable, even sensible. But the unintended consequence of individual singles all counting towards an album’s chart position was to bring bulk back to track listings: the more songs available, the more streams there are to count. In terms of artistry, though, size isn’t everything.The two most egregiously bloated albums here at 20 tracks each are Kanye West’s collagist The Life Of Pablo, a work that West continued tinkering with even after its official release, and Drake’s Views. Neither justified their length: the lack of variation in sound or tediously faux-sensitive theme made the latter feel even longer than it was, while West’s mess was barely coherent within individual songs, let alone as an album. Chance The Rapper, still unsigned but much-vaunted as a model for independent artists, ran nimble rings round both, though whether Coloring Book ends up as a joyous or saccharine experience depends on the listener’s ability to tolerate full-on Christian praise for an hour. In this company, the unpretentiousness of Snapchat self-affirmation hero DJ Khaled was a relief: with no overarching goal beyond elevating guests and listeners to be the best possible version of themselves that they could be, Major Key felt like the kind of rap album that doesn’t get made as much as it should any more.Should win – DJ Khaled, Major KeyWill win – Chance The Rapper, Coloring BookOverlooked – Kevin Gates, IslahRap song      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Will it be sixth time lucky for Drake? Photograph: Drakes Hotline Bling videoCurveballs aren’t what the Grammys are about: they’re the encapsulation of the entertainment industry’s establishment, and for the most part they’re structured to disproportionately reward existing success. Even by their standards, though, the choices here are unsurprising. Kanye West and Drake, with 14 best rap song nominations under their belt already, take up three spaces between them, and the latter’s Hotline Bling was so ubiquitous in 2015 that it’s hard to see it being overlooked. Still, Drake’s career record in this category is one of perennial runner-up – 0 wins from five nominations – and he might very well be denied again considering his boycott.Meanwhile, a win for West would feel more like a recognition of every other voice on his two singles. Ultralight Beam is carried by a virtuoso Chance The Rapper verse and Kelly Price gospel hook; Famous by Rihanna’s laconic presence and a classic Sister Nancy sample. Chance’s own No Problem is a finer example of his carefree spirit, in any case – but the most impressive cut here, even more so for being so unexpected, was the grand comeback of Remy Ma after six years in jail. Ma emerged into an industry almost unrecognisable from her first commercial peak, but All The Way Up gratifyingly demonstrated how far sheer skill could take her. There were echoes of the way she revelled in her own charisma among young rappers such as Young MA, too – the lesbian up-and-comer who scored one of the hits of the summer in Ooouuu – who perhaps deserved a nod over their established counterparts.Should win – Fat Joe & Remy Ma, All The Way UpWill win – Drake, Hotline BlingOverlooked – Young MA, Ooouuu