It promises to be one of the most unusual pairings to perform at the Edinburgh festival fringe this year. Two scientists from Edinburgh University's Roslin Institute, the birthplace of Dolly the sheep, will argue passionately in favour of the widespread consumption of genetically modified meat.Professors Helen Sang and Bruce Whitelaw will put to audiences the simple question: "We'd eat GM meat: would you?" It is designed to be a particularly provocative proposition, given the horror expressed by many members of the public about the dangers they perceive in the growing and eating of genetically modified food. After all, if GM crops are repellent to these people, what are they likely to think of the idea of eating meat from an animal that has been genetically modified by scientists?The show – it is part of the Stand Comedy Club's Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas – might not seem typical Edinburgh cultural fare. Nevertheless, the event's organisers insist that it is in keeping with the festival fringe's reputation for challenging preconceptions and received opinions.This point is backed by Sang. "People are suspicious about genetics and breeding, but just take a look at the dog. For thousands of years, we have used breeding programmes to turn the wolf into companion animals that today range from the chihuahua to the labrador to the great dane. What then is so wrong with the idea of using modern genetics to alter the animals which provide us with the food we eat every day?"Indeed, I would argue that we have a great deal to gain. For example, we could create strains of chickens that are genetically modified to be resistant to avian flu. Research on this idea is currently going on at the Roslin Institute and, if the project is successful, it could bring enormous benefits in helping to curtail flu pandemics in the near future."The Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas is scheduled to run from 1 to 25 August and will take place inside a 150-person yurt erected in St Andrew Square, near the terminus of the city's other great bastion of controversy: the Edinburgh tram system.Other events to be staged at the cabaret will include a discussion on the proposition, "Women! Science is not for you!", while other speakers will invite the audience to explore profound questions about the nature of society, including: "Should capitalism be criminal?", "Is Scottish independence bad for your health?" and "Are designer babies a slippery slope?", as well as the question: "Is your Marmite watching you?"Intriguingly, the vast majority of these propositions are to be put forward and then defended by academics from Edinburgh University, men and women who have revealed a sudden and unexpected capacity for sticking their necks out over controversial issues."This not going to be a lecture," Sang acknowledged. "We are aiming to get a dialogue going with members of the audience and I am quite sure we will succeed."