Euro 2016: England v Russia 7pm, ITVThe consensus view is that England have been handed a gentle group in these Euros, especially given that it’s now possible to qualify for the knockout stages by coming third. Of course, that doesn’t mean that anything less than a win will be deemed good enough against a Russian side that somewhat limped into these championships. Earlier (4pm, BBC1), Wales get their campaign underway against Slovakia. Gwilym Mumford The Saturday Show: Royal Special 9.30am, Channel 5As you may have noticed, the Queen turned 90 recently, which makes this weekend’s Trooping the Colour – an event to mark her official birthday – a biggie. While there’s coverage of the parade on BBC1 at 10.15am, if you’re looking for a more lighthearted tribute, tune in to this royal-themed edition of Gaby Roslin and Matt Barbet’s weekly yakathon. They’ll be joined by renowned Windsor experts Jerry Springer, Beverley Knight and Lisa Faulkner. Jonathan WrightThe Musketeers 8.30pm, BBC1It’s pure cheese ‘n’ ham cobblers but the Beeb’s Saturday night sword twizzler is taut, solid entertainment that takes itself just seriously enough. The fights are snappy, the villains fruity and the heroes’ facial hair a lush fantasy. Tonight’s tale of justice defended (postponed from last week) involves Paris’ refugee enclave, whose inhabitants are accused by the dastardly Marquis de Feron (Rupert Everett) of stealing grain and causing native paupers to starve. Plus ça change. Jack SealeThe Disappearance 9pm, BBC4Penultimate week of the pacy French thriller. In episode five, the repercussions of Rose’s discovery become apparent, and Camille and Molina focus on working out the identity of Léa’s acquaintance Franc39. Creepy waiter Nico – last seen with a stash of sedatives and umpteen pictures of the missing girl – is under suspicion yet again in episode six. Although predictable in places, this is a twisty Euro drama that’s worth sticking with. Hannah J DaviesBig Brother 10pm, Channel 5It’s time for the daily visit to the BB houses (yes, that’s an intentional plural – there are two neon monstrosities this year). Will there be peace and harmony or have things kicked off already? The show’s at that stage where the housemates haven’t quite bonded yet, but it’s interesting to see them find their place in the pecking order. Expect a postmortem on last night’s eviction and maybe some info on the upcoming live twist, due on Tuesday. Hannah VerdierAlan Davies: As Yet Untitled 10pm, DaveReturn of the unscripted show in which comic guests tell anecdotes and generally wibble on. First up, Stephen Fry, Sandi Toksvig, Sara Pascoe and Alex Edelman swap stories. Even if you’re minded to be cynical about letting comedians chatter so, the format works, principally because the intimate everyone-sitting-at-a-table setup makes it a kind of anti-Mock The Week – reflective rather than competitive. Continues all week. Jonathan Wright Grizzly Uprising 9pm, Animal Planet Anyone who’s seen The Revenant will know what kind of damage a computer-generated bear can inflict on an Oscar-craving star. But this is real life, and the bear attack survivors interviewed here – some with faces like badly stitched rugby balls – are still plainly traumatised. “Like being thrown into a cement mixer with razor blades” is a typical observation; “my scalp flew across the room” is another. Horrifying stuff. Ali CatterallFilm Choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   JunkheartsJunkhearts(Tinge Krishnan, 2011), 1.35am, BBC2Eddie Marsan is Frank, a former soldier trying to drown vivid flashbacks to his violent past in booze and cigs. When he takes in homeless teenager Lynette (Candese Reid) a touching relationship develops; but trouble arrives in the form of her vicious, drug-dealing boyfriend (Tom Sturridge). It’s a bruising drama, held together by Marsan’s and Reid’s intense performances. PHThe Lavender Hill Mob(Charles Crichton, 1951), 8.55am, BBC2A sublime Ealing comedy, with an Oscar-winning script by TEB Clarke. Alec Guinness is a lowly bank clerk who teams up with hefty Stanley Holloway to pull off an outrageous bullion robbery. Crichton directs with a deft touch and among the usual suspects are henchmen Alfie Bass and Sid James. Paul HowlettTitanic(James Cameron, 1997), 6.20pm, Channel 4Three hours long, costing a then-awesome $200m-plus and winning 11 Oscars, this is a blockbuster in every sense. Cameron depicts the Titanic’s fateful meeting with an iceberg with dizzying special effects; nevertheless, the film might have sunk without trace if the romance at the centre didn’t hold. But Leonardo DiCaprio, as penniless chancer Jack, and Kate Winslet’s rich, spirited Rose are irresistible as the star-crossed lovers. PHToday’s best live sportInternational Rugby Union: New Zealand v Wales 8am, Sky Sports 1Coverage of the opening Test in a three-match series.International Rugby Union: Australia v England 10.30am, Sky Sports 1Opening Test between the sides.Test Cricket: England v Sri Lanka 10.30am, Sky Sports 2Third day of the third Test.Euro 2016 Football: Albania v Switzerland 1.20pm, BBC1Clash between two Group A sides.