“I only need one more thing and then all this will be over ...” Achtung, Toby. The evil hand of Nazi doom rests lightly upon the secretly gay brother and pushes him towards ruin. Cringe as his mother kisses the cursed stepfather-to-be! Thrill as the evil stepfather engineers his escape! Avert your eyes as the whole series veers into implausibility! And so we head towards the dying moments of The Halcyon. Unless I’m wrong and there’s a second series. It turns out, of course, that we were right all along. Fancyman D’Aberville is a spook! “Oh the perils of a double life!” Why do we only get to find out now what a) Toby’s job is and b) that Toby is extremely important? I can’t bear Cocktail Waiter’s betrayal! How on Earth would he know what to look for? This is ridiculous. Too late to worry about that, though. What’s done is done.At least the glamour was back for a bit, with added Jamie Cullum. And the anniversary celebrations are coming up! Meanwhile lots of gloom and frenzied plot action featuring people we have never seen before and are likely to never see again. Peggy’s lost it and is seeing ghosts, understandably. “Peggy feels it isn’t safe here any more.” Oh dear. This was a bit weepy and horrible. “You have to be a big girl.” Evacuation is a great plotline, emotionally speaking. But why tell the story in seven seconds even if she was just going to Chertsey?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   At least the glamour was back for a bit, with added Jamie Cullum. Photograph: ITVSuddenly it all sped up, implausibly. A visit from Special Branch and then off to the Interrogation Centre at Latchmere House for a lot of shouting. Don’t hit little Toby! But now Fancyman D’Aberville was also on the rack. “There are good ways to leave – and there are bad.” Onwards we marched. Lord Ambrose, Brigadier Harker, who are all these people? “Were you close to your father? You understand why I’m asking that, given his Nazi sympathies ...” Ah, so the old man was a Nazi. We might have guessed. And these people are Daddy’s friends. “What happened?” “They had a disagreement. It concerned Lord Ambrose’s wife ... Be careful, his dislike of your father runs deep.” Well, some high stakes at least. “It’s this kind of entitlement that creates enemies.” Hmm. There would be plenty of time to sort all this out if we had a lot more episodes ahead. But we don’t.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Poor Feldman and his laughably awful poem. Photograph: ITVPlenty of red herrings were interspersed with all the espionage. Poor Mark Benton (playing Feldman), having to hand over his poem. I don’t know what to say about that, other than that in real life this character (who has been brilliant and offered a lot of light relief throughout this series) would not write a poem, even a laughably awful poem. Equally irritating was the intervention by Creepy, Racist Troublemaker Fancyman No 2. “You boys all look a little alike to me... We let you come here...” I won’t repeat what was said next but I suppose it’s accurate to the period, if not slightly overblown. This side of things was always going to be blown open at some point. Classily handled, although Fancyman No 2 did not deserve the bottle on the house (except over his head). In real life, of course, Mr Garland would not have sided with his employee.Mr O’Hara was the only one with anything to celebrate this week as Emma finally succumbed to his dubious charms. “The first US president to be elected to a third term...” And here he is referring to “fake news” or “alternative truths” as “artistic licence.” And it went on: “Your country’s at war ... Justice and due process don’t always win out.” Heavens. Where have we heard this recently? You can’t say they don’t aim for contemporary relevance.Diamante brooch for best supporting costume      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   If you’re going to see Jamie Cullum, you have to dress up, don’t you? … Emma and Mr O’Hara. Photograph: ITVBetsey was providing little competition in brown silk, looking understated for once this week. (Until the flesh-coloured lace corsage dress. Sigh.) Her Ladyship sparkled in the sequinned bolero. But Emma wins the prize for the ruched velvet burgundy dress. When you’re going to see Jamie Cullum, you have to dress up, don’t you?Inevitable Downton flashback moments      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charles Edwards as Lucian D’Aberville, Fancyman Extraordinaire! (And Downton’s answer to Goebbels.) Photograph: ITVFor some reason I had forgotten (until I was helpfully reminded by the far more observant viewers below the line here) that Charles Edwards was Michael Gregson in Downton as well as being Lucian D’Aberville, Fancyman Extraordinaire. Downton fans – and they are legion, friends, legion! – will recall that Mr Gregson was the newspaper editor who was set to wed Edith until it emerged he was already married to a madwoman and then he had to go and become a Nazi in Germany but not before fathering Marigold, the Imposter Child. Or something like that. (He actually was supposed to have been killed in Germany. But I always thought he must have gone to ground and would emerge at Goebbels.) Anyway, it’s a fantastic Downton echo and Edwards does an excellent turn as an insecure pseudo-aristo who can never be trusted. Plaudits to the man.Show-stopping lines“If they do promote you, you can finally get a decent suit.” I love Her Ladyship’s pronunciation of “see-yoot.” Why hasn’t she had any Dame Maggie lines for about five episodes? “I’m not your snivelling man-servant.” No, that would be Cocktail Man who has really, er, cocked things up.“One more drink and then we’ll go.” “One or two more drinks.” Emma goes kerrazy.“There’s something about you … Brings out in the worst in me.” Move over, Brief Encounter!