What is your musical guilty pleasure?Should pleasure be guilty? Perhaps then something that people may be snobbish about... surely the Beatles wouldn’t count, so how about Abba?How do you listen to music?Mostly, live, in concerts, festivals, and of course in rehearsals. I love the “live” experience – the alchemy and creativity of the moment, experienced together, the performers and the audience, and then gone forever, only the visceral memory remaining.What was the first recording you bought?...I bought Perlman’s recording of the Carmen Fantasy and Roby Lakatos’s first disc (still one of my favourites!) around the same time. Later, I got into old recordings of the great violinists of the first half of the 20th century, and bought everything I could find.... and the most recent (written or recorded)?The music for the complete Schumann quartets – I have started working on them with my quartet, the Albion quartet. Schumann’s chamber music is absolutely addictive!   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What single thing would improve the format of classical music concerts? Can I have three things? Firstly, I would make them shorter. I find two full halves too much to take in all at once. Secondly, I would change the start time so a concert can be, for example, 7 to 8.15pm or 8.30 to 10pm, which would allow people to also enjoy a sociable evening meal before or after. Most of all, I would take them out of the modern concert hall (I often find older halls are better for this!) to get rid of the separation between the performer and the audience. If you had to pick one work to introduce someone to the wonders of classical music, what would it be?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Beethoven’s 7th symphony. I will never forget my feeling of wonder and euphoric elation I felt when I first heard it. Which conductor or performer of the past would you like to have worked with?JS Bach. Even the most minuscule insight into the workings of his mind would be the most enormous leap in understanding! Also to enjoy his favourite coffee with him.What period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why? I would go to hear the first tempered keyboard instrument, and hear the un- tempered tuning of its contemporaries. Unlike his chamber music, I don’t relate to Elgar’s symphonies Imagine you’re a festival director here in London with unlimited resources. What would you programme - or commission - for your opening event?I would programme an immersive day of music throughout London, in squares, courtyards, alleyways, warehouses, pubs, and churches, everything from Lieder to chamber music to large scale orchestral works, with a treasure hunt taking you from one musical experience to another, each one linked to the one before. There would be no tickets and no expectations.What’s the most overrated classical work? - ie is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to?I know they are hugely popular, especially here in England, but I don’t relate to Elgar’s symphonies, unlike his chamber music.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The voice... Billie Holiday Photograph: Michael Ochs Archives/GettyWhich non-classical musician would you like to work with?I would have loved to work with Billie Holliday - what expression, what a voice and what great songs.What do you sing in the shower?I don’t – my voice is awful! I like to just listen to the sound of the water.•Tamsin Waley-Cohen performs at Birmingham Town Hall on 3 October as part of the European Concert Hall Organisation (ECHO) Rising Stars Tour. She will also perform alongside the Hallé at Bridgewater Hall on 1 December.