Secrets of Great British Castles 8pm, Channel 5Debut of a new series, presented by historian and journalist Dan Jones, which does much as the title suggests it might and focuses on venerable fortresses, relating a precis of their history, accompanied by a portentous soundtrack and silly, am-dram reconstructions. Jones begins tonight with Britain’s most contested castle, Edinburgh, which also boasts the distinction of still being a functioning military installation. Andrew MuellerNicky and Wynton: Making of a Concerto 8pm, BBC4Are jazz and classical really such strange bedfellows? This engaging film shows what happens when a Pulitzer prize-winning jazz great collaborates with an acclaimed classical violinist. “This is so alien in so many ways,” gasps Nicola Benedetti, while coming to grips with a concerto written for her by former mentor Wynton Marsalis. Viewers may decide for themselves whether the end-point is as interesting as the journey. Ali CatterallThe Level 9pm, ITVIt’s not easy to keep the plates spinning throughout a six-hour thriller that needs a twist at the end of each episode. The Level has had the odd bump, but tonight is a classic example of a penultimate instalment that feels like a finale. Nancy (Karla Crome) pushes her bent-cop pose to extremes, not realising that actual bent cop Kevin (Robert James-Collier) is on her tail. It won’t spoil crime fans’ fun if they make the key double-deduction early. Jack SealeQI 10pm, BBC2Sandi Toksvig continues to sharpen up the amiably informative panel show. This week’s Nordic theme plays to her Danish roots, taking in protest pigs, sperm exportation and the elusive but suddenly omnipresent concept of “hygge” (Toksvig’s handy summation: “bring beer”). Joining Alan Davies are panelists Jason Manford, Lucy Beaumont and Rhod Gilbert. The latter’s inability to distinguish between Scandinavian countries serves Davies’s transition from class dunce to teacher’s pet. Bella ToddJamie’s Super Food8pm, Channel 4In recent years, Channel 4 has staked a claim to be the home of socially conscious, sensible foodie telly, spearheaded by Jamie Oliver and his pal Jimmy Doherty. The former continues his quest to find healthy but affordable ingredients this week, travelling to Sardinia and South Korea to create ravioli and a spicy stew respectively. It’s followed by Food Unwrapped, where Doherty discovers why sales of British cheese are soaring in mainland Europe. Gwilym MumfordSaving The Devil 8pm, Nat Geo WildTasmanian devils, the world’s largest meat-eating marsupials, have an unusually evocative name, even if they tend to be little rascals rather than genuinely demonic. This doc straps chin cameras on to the scavenging critters for a snout-level view of some complex social rituals and unsettling mating habits. Perhaps their most relatable trait? Jumping a carcass buffet queue backside-first, in case they get bitten. Graeme VirtueHooten & The Lady 9pm, Sky1It’s off to far flung Cambodia for the globe-trotting treasure hunter Hooten this week, where he’s trying to track down a priceless Hindu gem, a supposedly wish-fulfilling rock known as the Cintamani jewel. The lady Alex is soon heading to Asia after him, whereupon the pair of strife magnets become somewhat entangled with a ruthless Vietnamese drug gang. Hooten’s past returns to haunt him, too, in the form of a head-to-head run-in with his nemesis. Ben ArnoldFilm choiceThe Danish Girl, (Tom Hooper, 2015), 10.20am, 5.45pm, Sky Cinema PremiereTom Hooper’s elegant drama tells the story of Lili Elbe, a Danish artist who was born Einar Wegener and, in 1930, became one of the first people to undergo gender reassignment surgery. Eddie Redmayne handles the transition charmingly, with Alicia Vikander as Einar’s wife Gerda, who unwittingly provided the model for her partner’s change by dressing him up in her clothes for a series of portraits. Paul HowlettBroken City, (Allen Hughes, 2013), 9.35pm, More4A starry cast – Mark Wahlberg, Russell Crowe, Catherine Zeta-Jones – make this none-too-original mystery look better than it is, though it’s watchable enough. Wahlberg’s private investigator Billy Taggart is hired by New York’s Mayor Hostetler (Crowe) to see if his wife (Zeta-Jones) is cheating on him. Taggart’s inquiries lead to heaps of municipal underhandedness. Paul HowlettLive sportTest Cricket: Bangladesh v England 4.30am, Sky Sports 2 The opening day of the second Test in Mirpur.Premiership Rugby: Northampton Saints v Gloucester 7pm, BT Sport 1 From Franklin’s Gardens.Championship Football: Queens Park Rangers v Brentford, 7pm, Sky Sports 1 A west London derby at Loftus Road as both sides look to shore up unspectacular starts.