The episode of Dad’s Army that goes out tomorrow on BBC2 at 8.35pm is a piece of TV with two cinematic shadows. Uninvited Guests, in which the air raid wardens are forced to share the church hall with the Home Guard platoon, was one of the shows in the fourth series (out of an eventual nine) that the cast recorded in late 1970 after a break to shoot a Dad’s Army movie for release the following year.Dad's Army review: who don't you think you are kidding? So, at this point in the run, TV audiences “have been watching”, as the closing credits famously announce, actors who have been teased with the possibility of big-screen fame. And this latest of the numerous re-run seasons is also serving as a preview to the new Dad’s Army feature film, which comes out next week. For many viewers, the TV episodes now also have additional context, from the drama, We’re Doomed!: the Dad’s Army Story, screened in the BBC2 Christmas schedules, which recreated the scripting, auditions and rehearsals for Jimmy Perry and David Croft’s wartime sitcom. So I was interested to see how the TV episodes of Dad’s Army now look, with the knowledge from the docudrama of where it came from and, from the movie posters, of where it would lead, perhaps improbably, five decades later.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Walmington-on-Sea’s finest: Clive Dunn, James Beck, John Le Mesurier, Arthur Lowe, John Laurie, Ian Lavender and Arnold Ridley. Photograph: PA Archive/PA Photos Already set almost three decades in the past at the time it was made, the series is less at risk of seeming dated than sitcoms set in their own period, which are prone to be filled with topical references that perish them like mould on a loaf.  In Dad’s Army, the references are already historically solid, although, 46 years on, educational for most viewers. One of the pleasures of the scripts is the way that the writers use period detail to drive the plots. For example, in A. Wilson (Manager?), shown a week ago on BBC2 and still available on iPlayer, it is crucial that Captain Mainwaring has not received a letter form the bank’s head office. This is accomplished by a sack of delayed mail arriving with the apology “letters delayed by enemy action”, referring to an air raid on the postal depot. Such moments are frequent and make Dad’s Army the funniest history lesson outside of 1066 and All That. We’re Doomed! has been most damaging to Arthur Lowe, who, in John Sessions’ tremendous performance, was shown to have difficulty remembering Mainwaring’s lines, partly because of his refusal, apparently on the grounds of cultural snobbery, to have sitcom scripts in the house. Viewers of the behind-the-scenes drama who watch Dad’s Army are now more likely to note just how often Lowe stumbles or fluffs and how, in scenes at his desk in the bank or the church hall, his eye-line often flickers to his blotter, where he perhaps has helpful prompts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Toby Jones and Catherine Zeta-Jones in the new Dad’s Army movie. Photograph: UPI There are moments, as well, when the show has an antiquated look, particularly in the use of back projection for exterior scenes, or sound. When the vicar complains, “I wish Captain Mainwaring would stop using my drawers” – or Clive Dunn’s Corporal Jones, serving as wicket-keeper in a platoon cricket match, talks about “whipping his bails off” – the studio laughter sounds only dutifully amused. However, the writers’ mastery of the vital aspects of television comedy – characterisation and structure – could be used to teach classes in sitcom writing today. A. Wilson (Manager?) provokes the class war between Mainwaring and John Le Mesurier’s Sgt Wilson to its highest by giving the deputy simultaneous promotions at both the Home Guard and in the bank, then uses Pike’s stupidity to set in train a lovely farce design in which almost every character believes that he has been elevated in rank. These shows from the halfway point of the franchise also perfectly demonstrate how writers and actors, in a long-running series, perfect their understanding of the characters. The cricket episode, The Test (still available on iPlayer), is notable for the precise delineation from authors and performers of how the main characters might react in a cricket match.Toby Jones webchat – as it happened  The 1971 Dad’s Army movie – only a moderate success, resulting in plans for a follow-up being cancelled – suffered partly because Le Mesurier was the only seriously experienced big-screen actor among the cast. The 2016 film is filled with stars who have fluff from Hollywood red carpets on their heels – including Bill Nighy, Michael Gambon and Tom Courtenay – but those who enjoy the latest big-screen version will not be disappointed by the TV originals. Perhaps the biggest tribute I can pay is that, having planned to see two episodes of the 1970 series as research for this piece, I ended up watching four. Whereas most TV shows are over by Christmas, Dad’s Army seems set to be with us for the duration.