From the vantage point of an office overlooking the tar pits on Wilshire Boulevard, few have a superior perspective on Hollywood as it enters its annual Oscar crescendo than Janice Min, president and chief creative officer of the Hollywood Reporter.Why Vanity Fair's Hollywood diversity cover fails to conceal industry prejudice In a season of turmoil characterized by accusations of racial discrimination in the Oscar voting academy, Min maintains a cool perspective on Hollywood and its highly stratified cast of players. It’s six years since Min arrived in Los Angeles from New York where she edited Us Weekly, making her a highly experienced hand in entertainment reporting; she doesn’t betray a sense of surprise at the current upheavals. “As everyone says, behavior is the best predictor of behavior. That’s as true here as it is anywhere.”Like Hollywood, the publishing industry may be in turmoil, but the Hollywood Reporter, for years the weakling of the film industry trades, has come to reflect – and in some instances influence – the global cultural reach and shifting contours of creative and institutional power in the entertainment industry.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Janice Min with Anna Wintour. ‘We want to completely indulge the glossy parts of Hollywood while also showing the other side of it, too.’ Photograph: Neilson Barnard/Getty ImagesDespite a recent change in corporate ownership, the publication, often known by the acronym THR, is widely considered a publishing success. With a weekly circulation of 72,000, it has established the viability of a large-format, glossy, industry-focused print publication matched to a comprehensive online operation, and complemented by diversification in TV spin-offs, roundtables and summits. Not surprising, then, that executives at Condé Nast are said to have their eye on her; her name comes up whenever rumors of a succession at Vanity Fair are raised. “It’s flattering,” she says. “But the things I’ve been able to do here would be pretty hard to do at a legacy media organization.” Besides, the Columbia School of Journalism graduate points out, “the news cycle here is fantastic”.Netflix and thrill: TV industry braced for rollercoaster ride Hollywood is in a turbulent period, from the Sony hack to the rise of Netflix, the death of the mid-budget film to the influx of Silicon Valley and Chinese money. It is also a prism for larger social issues and brand power imbued in carefully staged entities, such as the Kardashians. “As Hollywood has grown as an international business and dovetailed with technology, its impact on the world is far beyond movies and television, and we’ve been able to ride that wave,” Min explains. “There are countless places for stories about the light side – the celebrities, parties, junkets and movie premieres. People know so much more about everything, you have to up the ante to get the ones who care. People want smart stories. They want a point of view. So we want to completely indulge the glossy parts of Hollywood while also showing the other side of it, too.”One senses the Hollywood story may only get more interesting. An aspect that’s gone underreported in this election season is the declining importance of Hollywood political donors. It used to be routine for candidates, typically Democrats, to swing through here to pick up high-profile support and funding.  Some who have come forward protesting the changes, you’re shocked are in the Academy at all But nowadays billionaire donors tend to be clustered around Silicon Valley, with only millionaires being minted here. “We’ve reported on the lukewarm support Hillary Clinton has here and the [controversial] selfie with Kim Kardashian.” Still, she believes, candidates need Hollywood for a lot of reasons. “You don’t want people to think you’ve turned your back or they’ll get very offended.” In recent weeks, she personally interviewed members of the Academy board after it put forward proposals for reform following widespread criticism that all 20 acting nominations were handed to white actors. It’s been, she says, “a consuming conversation”.“A lot of older voters believe they’re being called racist, and that’s tough. And some who have come forward protesting the changes, you’re shocked are in the Academy at all.”The voting body has acted appropriately, she believes. “In some ways it’s a question of trying to integrate the Academy. But look at integrating anything – schools in the south or women into golf clubs – it’s often difficult, and the Academy would have been killed if they’d done nothing.” Beyond its own immediate parameters, the racial diversity debate fits into what she terms “a cycle of outrage”.“Much of last year was spent on the issue of women [pay inequality; limited opportunities beyond a certain age] and the outrage about that. Then it pivoted to diversity. That’s why the Academy’s decision to change its makeup was so stunning. It hasn’t happened on the gender issue.”Women in Hollywood: plenty of talk but little change on equal pay Will it? Min looks doubtful. “Hasn’t this been going since the cavemen?” Hollywood, she offers, sometimes resembles a kind of feminist theatre troupe. “People call things out but the action doesn’t quite follow.” Former employees at THR say the publication was astute to make light demands on the time of movie stars, often taking just an hour to photograph and conduct an interview, and to include other parts of the business, from stylists and set designers to caterers and cinematographers, in their coverage. Astute, in part, because the power structures established in the era of $20m acting fees, studio-supplied private jet and super publicists who could summarily blacklist publications or writers, is over. On Monday, Fox announced it was seeking $250m in studio savings through voluntary redundancies. The pattern holds across town, as Hollywood is known colloquially. At Sundance, the winning bids for many films came not from the studios but online distributors like Netflix and Amazon. The business reported a record box office last year but the landscape is changing.“There’s nothing more terrifying to studio executives in this town than the viewing habits of their children,” Min points out. Actors, faced with the same democratizing forces the internet has applied to other industries, are now – for better or worse – more willing to participate. “The business is super-challenged if you’re a star. There isn’t an agent in town that isn’t talking about calls they’re getting complaining that their paycheck is less than the one before and the one before that. But that’s how it is right now.”For female actors, diminished fees have meant diversification and to cultivate a red-carpet profile that translates in fashion and luxury contracts and collecting fees for attending parties and fashion shows. The increasing power technology has afforded individual celebrities has also had a knock-on effect on publishing. Why advertise glossy magazines when advertisers can pay Kendall Jenner or Gigi Hadid tens of thousands of dollars to post pictures on Instagram, and reach millions more consumers more directly.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Model Gigi Hadid. For every brand that wants to advertise through a celebrity’s Instagram, there are three that don’t, says Min. Photograph: Matthias Nareyek/Getty Images for IMG The value of a print cover has only gone up as a commodity in the internet environment This has become something of a conundrum for publishers. “For certain people and luxury brands there’s still something special about a print ad,” Min maintains. “For every brand that wants Kendall Jenner to post something on her Instagram, there are three brands that don’t. Most people know by now she’s being paid to do that. But good for Kendall Jenner! Amazing.” Those same forces, Min says, have made the acting or acting/modeling profession a lot like being a politician. “It’s a very different mindset to how it was in the 80s and 90s. Now you have to tap dance to stay in office. The era of being so exclusive is in the past. People sometimes forget about you.”But there are other factors behind the willingness of actors to participate in lengthy THR profiles or participating in roundtable discussions. The experience of many actors with the media is to sit through press junkets being asked the same questions repeatedly.“Nobody wants to be viewed as a pre-packaged star or a simpleton. They want you to understand they’re not a Disney star who grew up wanting to be famous. They want to be able to show there’s a craft to what they do.”Yet the value that print still holds in Hollywood remains surprising. Nobody ever says “I want to be web-only”, Min points out. “The value of a print cover has only gone up as a commodity in the internet environment. Everybody wants to be in print because it pushes up your value.” And that means recognition, and recognition means awards, and, as everyone knows, awards are the best way of separating oneself from the competition. “I’m not naive,” Min says with a laugh. “They like the Hollywood Reporter because we reach a community that picks them.”