You recently wrote a monograph, The Hatred of Poetry. To what extent do you, as a poet, hate poetry?My first teacher and dear friend, the person to whom No Art is dedicated, CD Wright, was a great poet who died recently. When I was an undergraduate, she was a hero to me. I remember telling her once – I was a kid – that I was frustrated with writing, and she said: “I hate poetry half the time.” She was kind of joking, kind of not. Any art, maybe poetry in particular, is caught up in a repetitive experience of disappointment – the distance between what you want to do and can do.How did this lead to the monograph?I was asked to respond to a big article in Harpers which was saying “Poetry is dead…” I could have said that poetry is alive and well and vital – and that is true. But what I got more interested in is: what is it in poetry that people love to hate? Why this periodic denunciation? Why such anxiety and embarrassment about poetry? I got interested in what contempt about poetry reveals about culture. In the Harpers piece, what was being revealed was a white male nostalgia for a false universality – you know the sort of thing: “Robert Lowell used to be able to speak for everyone…” But of course, Robert Lowell didn’t speak for everyone, right? Disdain for poetry reveals an interesting cultural anxiety about the space for imagination in our lives. We hate particular poems because they are not doing this impossible thing we demand of poetry. And The Hatred of Poetry is actually a defence of it. The only way I could have rebelled would have been to join the army, but I wasn’t tempted There is a lot of wordplay in your writing. Do you see language as a plaything?I do. I feel the materiality of language most intensely when writing poetry. It is a push/pull relationship where the material resists. You have a sense of speaking through language and of language speaking to you. The plasticity is primary. This doesn’t mean that content doesn’t matter, but poetry is this space where every single particle of language is charged with the most meaning – like where you break a line, how it is disposed on a page, sound patterns… that requires a playfulness. It means being open in the space of composition to the place that language takes you; it means not trying to know what you are doing in advance.How much has modern poetry become a minority taste in the US?`One of the weird things is that none of us can agree what poetry is. I don’t actually have a position on this, but I think that if there is a broad definition of pressurised language, it can involve all kinds of practices. I think of poetry as vital and unpredictable in the US. There is tons of stuff I can’t stand but also some great writing. There is the phenomenon of Claudia Rankine’s book. Poetry is marginal relative to commercial forces, but that marginality does not mean the work is not powerful; and it is marginal relative to Donald Trump – it is marginal relative to these disastrous forces. But when we worry about the marginality of poetry, we are worrying also about the marginality of creativity in lives – ordered, as they are, by economic forces or whatever. So what I am saying is that sometimes the margins are important places to be.What do your parents do?I was born in Topeka, Kansas. My parents are psychologists. Mum is the author of books on women and psychology – she wrote The Dance of Anger, which has helped a lot of people. She is a very useful reader of my work, and they are both really supportive. We are very, very close.Was it a strict Jewish family?No, they are lefty and super secular. I had no option to rebel. The only way I could have rebelled would have been to join the army, but I wasn’t tempted…Leaving the Atocha Station by Ben Lerner – review You won a Fulbright scholarship…That was for writing. I studied political science as an undergraduate. It was very clear to me from a very young age that language would be primary. For a long time I wanted to be a scholar of some sort. The books that influenced me as an undergraduate were from the canon of modern political thought, ranging from Hobbes and Machiavelli to Foucault. But I always thought I would somehow be involved in reading and writing. Also, I have no practical skills whatsoever.You have a young family. Do children alter the way you think about life?I have two daughters: one is three and a half, the other 15 months. The amazing thing is watching language being acquired. It is such a deep restoration of the wonder of language.What was your childhood like?Topeka was a great and terrible place. Now, like a lot of midwestern towns, it is all strip malls and car culture. It wasn’t a very violent place when I was born, but it became violent by the time I was in high school. And yet it has produced all these writers, a huge number, including three of my closest friends – all published poets in the middle of this anti-poetic landscape.Your poetry collection is called No Art – an inviting no entry sign…It is the title of a poem at the end of the book, which is a defence of feeling in poetry, and talks about love being more avant garde than shame. The poem is an argument against detachment. It is also about the way the title changes as you read, and the book changes in the light of that poem.No Art is published by Granta (£14.99). Click here to buy it for £12.29 The headline of this article was amended on 22 November 2016 as the author was misquoted