Tasmania is having a moment. Undeniably, the popularity of David Walsh’s Museum of Old and New Art has consolidated the state’s reputation as a cultural tourism destination. But right now something else is happening too: Tasmania is emerging as a star of film and television.This year saw the debut of eight-part Foxtel/BBC Worldwide thriller The Kettering Incident in July, while new ABC comedy Rosehaven premiered in October. They are high profile, well-received shows which seem likely to go to a second season. Though poles apart genre-wise, both are set in small-town Tasmania and riff on notions of otherness and isolation while highlighting the dark beauty of the landscape.The Unconformity: beauty and devastation collide in isolated Tasmanian mining town | Josephine Rowe This year also marks the premiere of big budget features partly shot in Tasmania: Lion starring Dev Patel and Nicole Kidman, and A Light Between Oceans starring Michael Fassbender. Meanwhile, Jennifer Kent’s anticipated second feature, The Nightingale, will be produced in Tasmania in early 2017. With the exception of A Light Between Oceans, which depicts a fictional Australian island, all of these projects use Tasmania as a central plot element. It’s not a case of a new backlot; we’re talking about major productions engaging with Tasmania the place, the identity, the idea. This has been happening for a while in the realm of the historical docu-drama (Tasmanian-made and Irish-made stories of convict life on the island, most notably) and there have been occasional feature films. But this new crop of productions has the potential to shift the way the world, including the rest of Australia, thinks about this island of half a million people. This is no overnight success story. Screen Tasmania was formed in 1999 to fund local production and support development, and there was sporadic activity long before that too, most significantly in the days of the Tasmanian Film Unit from 1945 to 1960 and Tasmanian Film Corporation in the 1970s.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Celia Pacquola, Luke McGregor and a very big dog in the ABC TV show Rosehaven. Photograph: ABCBut until recently, the only thing most international viewers knew about Tasmania was the Warner Bros’ creation Taz the Tasmanian devil, irksome to many actual Tasmanians. There have been other gems along the way, such as the kooky protagonist of Yahoo Serious’ Young Einstein (1988) and, years later, the endearingly blunt Fat Amy of the Pitch Perfect movies. In both cases, the characters’ origin stories were allusions to eccentricity, although any birthplace thought of as “redneck” or odd would have served just as well.Now that the world’s understanding of Tasmania is evolving beyond simply being the birthplace of Errol Flynn – in no small part thanks to the influence of MONA – it’s no surprise that Australian filmmakers are eager to jump on the bandwagon. But is there really much to say? Aren’t we just talking about the equivalent of a small town, and aren’t they are a dime a dozen, all over the country?Well, no. Tasmania is large, about the size of Ireland (no, you won’t be able to see it all in a weekend). Its terrain is diverse, in places wild and inhospitable, but actually most people live in the cities. Our culture has evolved alongside but separate to the rest of the country. We have our own slang, our own pop-culture touchstones, and, some say, our own accent. Our political scene operates in its own way and the world’s first environmental party was formed here.Dark Mofo: making a strangely beautiful town seem deliciously deranged | Steph Harmon The light is clearer. I won’t say it’s always spooky but Tasmania does have a unique atmosphere, borne of an unusually temperate climate for Australia, geographical isolation and memories of a violent past. It’s picturesque, and affords many opportunities for a high quality of life surrounded by mountains, bushland or coast. At the same time, the state tops the country in illiteracy and poverty rates. In many ways, it’s a fragmented society, with lingering conflicts over divisions of class and race. Many young Tasmanians feel limited by being here, and some of our best and brightest have languished in obscurity, sidelined from the national conversation.The version of Tasmania most visible right now is heavily influenced by Tasmanian gothic – an aesthetic that has its origins in colonial literature and painting, informed by a European sensibility. There are festivals that deliberately engage with the idea of the darkness of this place: the overtly macabre Dark Mofo; the Unconformity arts festival in Queenstown; and my own horror film festival, Stranger With My Face, featuring the Tasmanian Gothic Short Script Challenge. That said, the Tasmanian gothic is not necessarily central to the practice of local artists. An artistic tradition that comes from a Tasmanian Aboriginal perspective, or from a non-European immigrant perspective, for example, may reject the framework entirely. But going beyond labels, there’s an opportunity now to reflect on how we got to this point, and where Tasmania on screen is going from here.Arctic Blast (2010) and The Hunter (2011) heralded a new wave of aesthetic interest in Tasmania. An Australian-Canadian co-production, Arctic Blast is a B-grade disaster flick that centres around an American protagonist (played by Michael Shanks of Stargate fame). While the production employed many locals, the narrative treated Hobart as basically an offshore American city. The Hunter, produced by Porchlight’s Vincent Sheehan (also producer and co-creator of The Kettering Incident), is based on the novel by Sydney-sider Julia Leigh. Its European protagonist – played by Willem Dafoe – is a mercenary seeking the elusive Tasmanian tiger. Tasmania becomes the backdrop for an existential journey – important to the story only in a symbolic sense.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gillian and Anna in The Kettering Incident. Photograph: Giovanni LovisettoThe key difference this time around is that The Kettering Incident and Rosehaven are co-created by Tasmanians (Vicki Madden and Luke McGregor respectively). Yet these stories still talk about Tasmania from the outsider’s perspective, through the eyes of a fish-out-of-water character (in both cases an ex-local; in the case of The Kettering Incident the protagonist has lived away so long that she has British accent). This is a common device when introducing mainstream viewers to an “unusual” setting (see Doc Martin and Cornwall, Northern Exposure and Alaska, Top of the Lake and New Zealand, to name but a few) but it also creates a sense of distance, with the local people often treated as specimens or curiosities. Then again, the experience of going away, coming back and trying to re-assimilate is a quintessentially Tasmanian one. It will be interesting to see how these stories evolve if that sense of otherness is allowed to erode. It’s one thing to talk about Tasmania on-screen in a purely ideological sense, but none of this can be separated from the practicalities of production. David Walsh of Mona: on art, sex and why (gallery) size matters Considering that large-scale production will probably never happen in Tasmania without major external funding, the question of what constitutes an authentic Tasmanian vision remains pertinent. There’s a risk of filmmakers playing into stereotypes and preconceptions or indulging in pure mainlander wish-fulfilment. Such tropes are not necessarily bad, in isolation: it’s about striking the right balance, and that means ensuring locally instigated projects don’t lag too far behind in-bound production.Locating these TV shows in Tasmania has been a risk on the part of broadcasters: there’s no studio here, no huge pool of highly skilled crew, and the weather is unpredictable. It wasn’t a foregone conclusion that everything would work out, although earlier projects such as The Hunter were test cases. The producers of The Kettering Incident and Rosehaven have embraced shooting on location and made the accompanying challenges integral to their aesthetic. To their credit, they have also cast many Tasmanian actors, including in lead roles. The experiment, so far at least, has been a resounding success.