 The film Florence Foster Jenkins is nominated. The character has been dubbed the world’s worst opera singer and even she turned down performing at Donald Trump’s inauguration. Jimmy Fallon in his opening monologue About a woman slowly dying of syphilis.Hugh Grant on the plot of Florence Foster Jenkins      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hugh Laurie’s acceptance speech. Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP Thank you, first of all, to the Hollywood Foreign Press Association for this amazing honour. I suppose it’s made more amazing by the fact that I’ll be able to say that I won this at the last ever Golden Globes. I don’t mean to be gloomy. It’s just that it has the words ‘Hollywood,’ ‘foreign,’ and ‘press’ in the title.Hugh Laurie wins best supporting actor in a TV drama Hollywood is crawling with outsiders and foreigners, and if you kick us all out, you’ll have nothing to watch except for football and mixed martial arts, which are not arts.Meryl Streep picks up the Cecil B DeMille lifetime achievement award      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tracee Ellis Ross with her award. Photograph: Venturelli/Getty Images This is for all the women, women of colour, and colourful people, whose stories, ideas and thoughts are not always considered worthy and valid and important. But I want you to know that I see you. We see you.Tracee Ellis Ross wins best comedy actress It’s not a problem. A dead bird never leaves its nest.John Lithgow channels Churchill when he realises his fly is undone That was the moment she told my dad she wanted a divorce. I never saw my father then after that day – Fantasia day.Steve Carell introduces the winner in the best animated film category by recalling the first cartoon movie he saw      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kristen Wiig, left, and Steve Carell. Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP March 14 1981. It was the same day we had to put our dogs down. Three of them. Little Jack, Janet and Chrissie. My grandpa thought it’d be fun to go to a movie. It didn’t take our minds off it. Bambi’s mum. And also that was the last day I saw my grandpa. He disappeared. And I didn’t speak for two years.Co-presenter Kirsten Wiig does the same You make me proud to be an artist. You make me feel that what I have in me – my body, my face, my age – is enough.Viola Davis introduces Meryl Streep While I was singing and dancing and playing piano and having one of the best experiences I ever had on a film, my lady was raising our daughter, pregnant with our second, and trying to help her brother fight his battle with cancer. If she hadn’t taken all that on so that I could have this experience, there would surely be someone else up here other than me today. So sweetheart, thank you.Ryan Gosling thanks Eva Mendes in his best actor speech Take your broken heart, make it into art.Meryl Streep quotes late friend Carrie Fisher      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Evan Rachel Wood at the Golden Globes. Photograph: Farrell/BFA/REX/Shutterstock I’ve been to the Globes six times, and I’ve worn a dress every time. And I love dresses. I’m not trying to protest dresses. But I wanted to make sure that young girls and women know that they aren’t a requirement. And you don’t have to wear one if you don’t want to. And to just be yourself because your worth is more than that. So, I said, this year I’m going homage to Marlene Dietrich and Victor/Victoria and David Bowie, because it’s his birthday.Evan Rachel Wood on the red carpet