Peter Tunison, a retired architect from Minnesota, was in no doubt. “If this was a monument in the US, we wouldn’t have vehicles passing so close by. This is the place to visit in the UK. It’s windy today and you can still hear the traffic noise. A tunnel seems a very sensible option. I’d go for it.”A bitter wind was indeed blowing hard on Friday and yet visitors to Stonehenge could still clearly hear the rumble of cars, vans and lorries passing along the A303 a mere 165 metres from the one of the most important prehistoric monuments in the world.Stonehenge tunnel is a monumental error | Letters If the government’s plans come to fruition, work will begin in 2020 on a tunnel to take the traffic underground and not only restore peace and quiet to the temple but reopen an ancient ceremonial route to Stonehenge currently cut in two by the A303 and give access to a rarely visited landscape south of the monument.However, the “if” is important. For decades, plans for a tunnel have been mooted and then dropped. Over the next two months, local people, archaeologists, druids, environmentalists, motoring organisations and politicians will pore over the latest proposals.The debate is bound to be lively. Some believe a tunnel, together with other road improvements, will benefit the monument as well as road users. Just as many believe the development risks desecrating the area. “I’d be for it as long as they don’t damage any important archaeology,” said Natalie Kroon, who was braving the weather with her husband, Hennie, and three young children. “It’s our first time here. The noise hasn’t particularly bothered me. You can tune out of it in the same way you do when there’s a fan on in the office. I do wonder if there are better things to spend the money on these days.” Lottie Bergen, who was visiting with her friend Anick Gerrits from the Netherlands, said she was not wholly against the road as it was. “It is spectacular when you drive here and first see Stonehenge. It would be a shame to lose that.” The tunnel plans are part of proposals for a £2bn investment in south-west England’s road system. In its case for the tunnel, Highways England says this section of the A303 was designed for about 13,000 vehicles a day but carries closer to 24,000.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A lorry on the road near Stonehenge. Photograph: Sam Frost for the GuardianHighways England describes the scheme as a once-in-a-generation opportunity to improve the Stonehenge experience for the 1.3 million people who visit each year.The government has considered building both shorter and longer tunnels. A shorter one would succeed in making Stonehenge more tranquil but the siting of the portals – the entrances and exits – would damage other important monuments within the world heritage site. A longer one – 2.8 miles – is seen as prohibitively expensive. A tunnel of 1.8 miles is now being presented by the government as a good balance, delivering benefits to the site but still affordable.Under the preferred option – though the details are up for discussion – the tunnel carrying the A303 would be located slightly south of the present course of the road, and so a little further away from the monument.This should mean that at the western end the Normanton Down Barrows, bronze age burial mounds, are not affected. At the other end the idea is for the road to dive underground east of a feature called the Avenue, which is believed to have been a ceremonial approach to Stonehenge from the river Avon. Finding consensus will not be easy. Among those who have voiced early, vociferous objections is David Jacques, a senior research fellow at the University of Buckingham, who is working on a Mesolithic site called Blick Mead within the Stonehenge landscape. One of the intriguing recent finds there was evidence of the earliest known long-distance walk in British history – a 250-mile trip from York to Wiltshire made 7,000 years ago by a hunter gatherer and his dog, unearthed thanks to the discovery of the animal’s tooth.Jacques believes proposed building associated with the road changes and tunnel near Blick Mead could prevent similar finds in the future. “This is arrogant and outrageous. It cuts down the chances of people in the future finding out more about Stonehenge.” Some druids who worship at Stonehenge are also deeply worried. Frank Somers, of the Stonehenge and Amesbury Druids, said the proposed tunnel came “horrifically close” to the sacred springs of Amesbury Abbey.“This place gave the first spark of spiritual life to the sacred landscape of Salisbury Plain 5,000 years before Stonehenge. It is unique,” Somers said. “Its sense of spiritual and ancestral presence is stunningly beautiful and pure.”He also raised concerns that changes to the landscape at the western end of the tunnel could obscure the view of the midwinter sunset from Stonehenge – what he described as a “very significant solar alignment”.Many others believe the tunnel would do much to restore the area to some of its ancient glory. English Heritage, which manages the site, Historic England and the National Trust all said the right tunnel would reunite Stonehenge with the landscape.Mike Pitts, the editor of British Archaeology, who first directed an excavation at Stonehenge in 1979, agreed. “When you visit Stonehenge now you see traffic, you feel traffic,” he said. “But the tunnel is not just about that traffic. It will open up an extraordinary landscape to the south of the road that is known to only a few nutjobs like me. It will change the way we engage with that whole landscape.” 