Billy Bragg’s choices 2-4-6-8 Motorway – Tom Robinson BandOne for anybody who has ever sat in the back of a transit van driving home from a gig 100 miles away, following their dreams down the M whatever.Willin’ – Little FeatIf you live on the road, you better be willing. And like the best travel songs, the lyrics to this make you want to visit these exotic-sounding places: “Tucson to Tucumcari, Tehachapi to Tonapah.”Promised Land – Johnnie AllanChuck Berry wrote this tale of the “poor boy”, crossing America from Norfolk, Virginia, to Los Angeles by Greyhound bus, train and jet plane. Johnnie Allan’s Cajun-flavoured version gives us a taste of that epic swing through the south.Talk to Me of Mendocino – Kate and Anna McGarrigleSome travel to work, some to play and some to find a new beginning. The McGarrigles fall into the latter category, packing their bags and heading west in the hope of better times.Roadrunner (Once) – Jonathan Richman and the Modern LoversThis hymn to the joys of driving around all night says it’s not the destination that is important, it’s the journey. Especially if you have the radio on.Joe Henry’s choices Come Fly With Me – Frank SinatraThe ultimate travel song, perhaps, from the freewheelin’ Francis Albert Sinatra, who envisions that it matters not where he and his lover go, as long as they get gone together.Pony – Tom WaitsOne of the saddest songs in the American songbook, sung from the perspective of the vagabond whose life has taken him so far away from all that informs him, he can’t imagine his way back. He’s clinging to blind faith and circumstance, and it may yet lead him on. This song is just pitiful – and gorgeous.Wanted Man – Johnny CashRangy and lusty, this song – written for Johnny Cash by his young acolyte Bob Dylan, and performed at his seminal live show at San Quentin State prison – makes being on the run from the law (and a concerned mother or two) seem sexy and liberating. As a bonus, it contains one of the best lines of the era: “Got sidetracked in El Paso, stopped to get myself a map / Came the wrong way into Juárez with Juanita on my lap.”Sail Away – Randy NewmanWherein a ship’s captain pitches to African natives on the pleasures of the new world. Bitterly revealing of this nation’s darkest impulses, and all in under three minutes. The same might have taken Herman Melville 300 pages to express.Leaving on a Jet Plane – Peter, Paul and MaryA confection from my youth. It has been easy to shrug off John Denver as a significant songwriter, given how soft-focus he remained while Rome was burning and Mr Jones was playing sword-swallower at Warhol’s Factory. Nonetheless, this is tender and deftly rendered.• Shine a Light: Field Recordings from the Great American Railroad is released on 23 September via Cooking Vinyl. Billy Bragg and Joe Henry tour the UK in November. 