Alan Edwards recalls the first time he did business with Prince in 1991 with amused clarity. “I got a call from Rogers & Cowan in America, the PR firm, asking if I would like to work with him,” says the veteran publicist, whose clients have included David Bowie, the Who and Michael Jackson.Prince – a life in pictures “I was flown out to Minneapolis and picked up by a chauffeur. It was flat and cold and it was the middle of winter. We drove for miles and miles through the snow, then suddenly Paisley Park [Prince’s recording studio and headquarters] pops up. I was shown up to a suspended room – just hanging in the air, with a glass floor and everything – in the middle. I sit there. No one even offers me a cup of coffee. A button is pushed and an album starts playing. It was Diamonds and Pearls, and I had a sense I was being watched. So I put on a lot of foot-tapping. “At the end, the receptionist comes and gets me and says the car’s outside. I’d come halfway around the world and no one had spoken to me. I get in the car, and we’re driving along. The driver, this cool African American guy, says to me: ‘What did you think of the album? What about this track?’ I was being questioned forensically, so I guessed it was being taped, or played back to his highness. I got back to London, and three days later I was hired to work on Prince.” He didn’t like to do interviews. He found the whole experience painfulAlan Edwards Edwards’s story is typical of Prince, a man who lived a life in the public eye, while protecting himself assiduously. One of his habits was to ride a bike around Paisley Park, and even last Sunday, one local resident told the Guardian he had been out and about on two wheels. Julie Reid was getting a haircut when the salon’s receptionist said Prince was cycling around outside. Reid, foil in her hair, ran outside to see. Prince waved to her, but wagged his finger in admonition when she raised her phone to take a photo. In public, but private.That Prince was out and about on Sunday – having hosted one of his famed Paisley Park dance parties the previous night – made his death all the more of a shock. He had been in hospital briefly the Friday before, after his plane made an emergency landing in Illinois following a gig in Atlanta. That incident has become the subject of speculation, with the celebrity gossip website TMZ – which broke the news of his death on Thursday – claiming he was treated for a drug overdose, rather than the flu his representatives claimed.The transcript of the 911 call made to the emergency services in Minneapolis shed no light. The caller said someone identified only as “the person” was dead, that “the people are just distraught”. Only late in the call did the confirmation come from the caller: “Yes, it’s Prince.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prince performing on stage on the Purple Rain tour. Photograph: Richard E Aaron/RedfernsAn autopsy, which was scheduled to be performed on Friday, should reveal the truth, but Prince certainly had a reputation for clean living. His biographer Matt Thorne said Prince was a vegan who rarely drank and who was vehemently opposed to drugs. He had sacked band members who had been found using drugs, and Thorne found it “unlikely” Prince had become a drug user. Edwards agreed. “I was really depressed and disappointed when I saw that story,” he said. “I hope it’s not true. That was the opposite of my experience.”Edwards’s former business partner Chris Poole was not so sure. Poole, who worked more closely with Prince on a day-to-day basis, said: “I wouldn’t be shocked [if he had died from an overdose]. There were rumours that he might dabble, though not in the hard stuff. If he thought any particular drug might help him creatively then he might.”Perhaps the key event in the second half of Prince’s career was his marriage to Mayte Garcia in February 1996. Before then, the lascivious character of his songs was a reflection of the real Prince. Poole recalled that on the Diamonds and Pearls tour, the convoy of vehicles would have to stop at motorway services, so the group of women in Prince’s private tour bus could be swapped for another group.On that tour, he met Garcia, eventually deciding to marry her. The wedding was a characteristically opulent affair, with specially made china bearing the logo Prince had taken to using in lieu of a name in the wake of his rebellion against his record label, Warner Brothers (he was known publicly as The Artist Formerly Known as Prince at the time). Though the marriage was short-lived – the couple’s union was annulled on their third wedding anniversary – the loss of two children had a profound effect on Prince. Their son Boy Gregory died a week after his birth in October 1996, and a few days later the couple appeared on Oprah Winfrey’s TV show giving a tour of Boy’s playroom, pretending he was still alive. Garcia later miscarried a second child. A second marriage, to Manuela Testolini, lasted from 2001 until she filed for divorce in 2006.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prince, with Mayte Garcia. Photograph: John Stillwell/PAAfter his relationship with Garcia, and under the influence of former Sly and the Family Stone bassist Larry Graham, who had joined his band, Prince became interested in the Jehovah’s Witnesses, with his conversion becoming public in 2001. He was committed to his new faith; in October 2003 the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported the case of a woman whose Sunday afternoon was interrupted by a ring at the doorbell, which proved to be Prince and Graham proselytising on behalf of the Witnesses. “My first thought is ‘Cool, cool, cool. He wants to use my house for a set. I’m glad! Demolish the whole thing! Start over!’” said the home’s owner, identified only as Rochelle. “Then they start in on this Jehovah’s Witnesses stuff. I said, ‘You know what? You’ve walked into a Jewish household, and this is not something I’m interested in.’” If his faith remained devout, it would seem to preclude the notion of a drug overdose.Religion, which had been a piece of stagecraft to Prince in the 1980s, became part of his art in the 2000s. “Following the death of his child he was searching for answers in faith,” Thorne said. “He recorded The Rainbow Children album [in 2001], which dealt with it. He would talk on stage about going to the Kingdom Hall. In 2002 he was doing 15-minute jazz numbers about his beliefs. He was really threatening his career with it.”Control of his career had been part of Prince’s modus operandi from the beginning. His first recording contract had granted him an unprecedented level of artistic control for a new artist, and his battle with Warner Brothers in the 1990s was caused by his desire not to release albums according to a schedule dictated by the label. That need for control made him a demanding taskmaster.“He ran through people,” Poole said – indeed, Poole and Edwards ceased to be his UK publicists several years ago. “There were one or two who didn’t work again after working with Prince. He was relentless. I’d get calls at two in the morning, after he had slept all day. It’s untrue to say he wouldn’t listen – he would if you stood up to him – but he could be very intimidating in his behaviour.” Edwards remembered occasions when his band would be assembled, immediately after a show had ended, to watch a video of their whole performance. “Everyone who played a bum note was reprimanded.” Poole would be charged with finding a recording studio at no notice, so Prince could be ready when inspiration struck, or with finding a venue on the day for an intimate show.Prince, baby, you were much too fast Prince was equally in control of his public persona. Journalists were not allowed to record interviews with him, after he was distressed when one early interview recording began circulating as a bootleg, and for a period were not allowed to take notes either. Edwards and Poole were told to install a special phone in their office, for which only he had the number, so he could be sure only of talking to them, and so they would know it was him and they needed to pick up.“He didn’t like to do interviews,” Edwards said. “He found the whole experience painful. But he did understand visuals, so once a month a package would turn up from Minneapolis, a white envelope with 20 or 30 transparencies [of photographs] – Prince in front of a purple Rolls-Royce; Prince in front of a purple house. He would say, ‘Do what you want with them.’ We’d give them to the tabloids, and the stories would get bigger and bigger – ‘Prince has paid $100m for a purple mansion.’”His innermost circle – the musicians, the managers – were rarely people who could challenge him. Thorne said Wendy Melvoin and Lisa Coleman, the duo who worked with him in the 80s, were dispensed with for that reason. “They said themselves they felt he had given up control and had to wrench it back. He wasn’t a massively collaborative musician, but he did like to be surprised. He was like Mark E Smith of the Fall, which sounds an unlikely comparison: he found people and then he trained them up.”That applied to the backroom staff, too. “He did make some bizarre choices, especially on the management side,” Poole said. “He didn’t go for the mega lawyers and fame hunters that ran the business as a lot of other people did.”He recruited one manager from his fanclub, according to Thorne. “He just didn’t care about the industry,” Edwards said. “So he would pick someone who was a bodyguard and put them into management. It was almost childlike – he was always putting people into different jobs.”For all that he was a remote figure who found it difficult to trust people, Prince provoked a store of good memories in Poole. “I did an aftershow party at the Melkweg in Amsterdam – I had to organise his aftershow parties. I told him not to get there until 1am, but he arrived early and I stood on the balcony with him. He looked across the room, and said: ‘This was one of the first gigs I did in Europe.’ There was a wistful tone in his voice. He had gone so far, but he still had a nostalgia for how simple it was in the beginning. He used to phone up at midnight if he was in town and not working. ‘I’m at Tramp. Come down.’ And I’d sit there, and there would be 10 people there. He’d be sipping a port and lemon through a straw, which always amused me. I got really fed up one time and said: ‘Can you tell me what we’re doing here?’ There was one stunning girl, alone on the dancefloor. He pointed at her and said: ‘That’s what we’re doing here.’”