Connie Britton’s delightfully trashy portrayal of Faye Resnick on FX’s The People v OJ Simpson has brought new interest to her infamous book Nicole Brown Simpson: The Private Diary of a Life Interrupted. A mega-bestseller in its time, it is now long out of print. Read now, it is exactly what one would expect a hastily published, “collaboratively written” tell-all about an abusive LA marriage to be. If a ghostwriter were assigned, today, to create a novelization of a very depressing late Eagles song, it would probably result in a very similar artifact.Resnick has, as a result of this quick attempt to cash in, something of a bad reputation. The best one can say, reading the book, is that she clearly cared for Nicole more than just the simple kiss-kiss camaraderie of two pretty white Los Angelenos attempting to parlay their beauty into financial stability and a real good time. If your friend was a) murdered by her abusive husband, who b) immediately began to leverage his wealth and popularity to distance himself from the consequences, and c) the weapons at your disposal were only the public’s insatiable desire for sexy drug antics and flashes of life lived in the proximity to fame, who would begrudge you the payday you might receive for thoroughly dragging said husband with the aid of a gossip columnist?The People v OJ Simpson: episode four – enter Connie Britton as Faye Resnick Yet reading this book feels like a violation in a manner that its existence somehow does not. It accidentally manages to very adequately (if hamfistedly and cartoonishly by turns) chart the evolution of a man from lover to abuser to killer from the perspective of a friend – not just Nicole’s friend, but Simpson’s friend and sometimes confidant – and it’s that evolution that still has the power to chill the blood nearly a quarter century later. She’s not Lundy Bancroft, but she’s not Linda Tripp either.Were Resnick’s numerous assertions about her fears for her own personal safety genuine? Back in 1995, the domestic violence calls and photographs of Nicole’s battered face and body were proof enough that Nicole was in danger. Resnick’s testimony didn’t really damage the defense. Besides, I have yet to encounter a drug addict (Resnick admits to being one) who doesn’t believe someone is riffling through their possessions while they sleep. That being said, the book does have an air of shaky bravado: it was a red flag being waved in the face of a dangerous man, and it blew up a lot of Resnick’s friendships, by all accounts. This was not yet the Los Angeles of Real Housewives fame (Resnick would cheerfully ride the coattails of another friend on multiple episodes of the Beverly Hills installment years later) and revelations such as the infamous “Brentwood hello” were more eye-popping then than now.The Resnick we can piece together from the moments of genuine pathos and feeling that did, somehow, manage to survive the process of padding out 244 pages (the last seven being a conscience-soothing litany of domestic violence hotline numbers) is not the least sympathetic of women. Awkwardly shoehorned into her narrative is a snapshot of her own bad childhood and a series of poor decisions, loneliness and the desire to be understood. There’s a dash of “astral light” spiritual handwaving, too.It’s not Resnick, of course, that drives this book. It’s not even Nicole. It’s OJ. Which is to be expected! If Nicole was a “glamorous, photogenic blonde” who was married to an abusive restaurant owner who wasn’t the only man to rush for over 2,000 yards in a 14-game season, A Private Diary would not have gone into an immediate 750,000 copy hardcover printing. So, who is the OJ we see here?We first meet him at the funeral wearing dark glasses, heavily sedated and slow-moving, trying to get Resnick’s attention. She lays it on thick: Why had OJ masked those eyes that had stared into Nicole’s soul? And then the questions: When had those eyes last stared into Nicole’s? What had he seen? And when did he see it? None of us knew when, or how, we would consider these questions. But we knew there would be a time – and a judgment.Resnick claims to have asked him, there at the funeral, “OJ, what happened?” which is the sort of moment that one feels could have happened, or not. His quoted response has a similar quality: “Girl ... you – out of all of them – know that I loved her too much.” What a great way to anoint oneself the best candidate to be writing an intimate tell-all about their marriage.Resnick’s marriage-era OJ is charming, “courtly”, attentive, but always re-positioning himself as the center of attention: Resnick’s and Nicole’s. He wanted a “Barbie doll”. He flew into jealous rages when Nicole was looked at by other men, and Nicole loved to be looked at. OJ described Nicole admiringly as “angel white”, which opens the book’s foray into racial tensions. Her affair with his friend, LA Raiders star Marcus Allen (during their separation) and OJ’s continuing obsession with it takes up a tremendous number of pages. Resnick thinks her readers want to hear about Nicole’s taboo explorations into black male sexuality and her theories about the black body’s ability to truly satisfy a woman, and she has plenty to tell them. It’s hard to read in 2016, and easy to sell in 1994.Resnick’s farewell to Nicole, at the funeral, was to smoke two cigarettes, one for herself and one for her murdered friend, and to place the (stubbed out) butt of the second at the base of a nearby tree. An odd gesture, perhaps, but one which seems more fitting after reading the entirely of A Private Diary. Sometimes putting your intimate trash out in public comes with a topsy-turvy sentiment that occasionally lurches into sweetness.