If the succeeding concerts of the Promenade season inaugurated last night are as brilliantly successful as the first of the series, no one interested in the venture, either financially or artistically, will have reason to complain. The audience was an immense one, and both on the score of enthusiasm and discrimination did its duty ­– does anyone, we wonder, ever reflect that audiences have duties? ­– in a most praiseworthy way. It was a little unreasonable in the matter of encores, perhaps, but on a Saturday night this may be forgiven, and the artists thus honoured, in each case, deserved the compliment.As regards the performance, it was of high excellence. The orchestra, a body of instrumentalists including most of the best London players, is fit, in Wellington’s phrase, to “go anywhere and do anything,” and the conductor, Mr Henry J Wood, who both in London and the provinces has already won golden opinions in this and other musical capacities, proved himself admirably fitted for the task entrusted to him. It is really a pleasure to find an English conductor with a “temperament” – an English conductor who has some fire, some feeling for rhythm.Mr Wood is a musician jusqu’au bout des ongles, and the playing of the orchestra showed that his forces recognised him as such. The opening piece, Wagner’s Rienzi overture, was given with tremendous verve, and evoked an outburst of enthusiasm of quite southern warmth. Similar expressions of delight followed the performances of Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody in D and G (generally known as No 4); the Gavotte from Mignon, Chopin’s Polonaise in A Major (orchestrated most effectively by Glazounoff), and the graceful and ingenious set of “Chromatic Valses” from Cyrill Kistler’s comic opera Eulenspiegel, which had not before been heard in London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Queen’s Hall in Langham Place, London, 1894. The hall was the venue for the promenade concerts until it was burned out during the blitz in 1941. Photograph: London Stereoscopic Company/Getty ImagesThese and other pieces were in the first part of the programme, which did not conclude till past 10, and there were still to come a Carmen selection and a number of vocal and instrumental pieces of various kinds and degrees of merit. Clearly those who had invested a shilling were not likely to complain. The vocalists were Mrs Marie Duma, Mrs Van Der Veer-Green, and Messrs Iver Mckay, David Ffrangcon-Davies, and WA Peterkin. We have not space to deal with their efforts in detail, but all did well. Mr Ffrangcon-Davies in particular giving a most intelligent rendering of the Prologue from Pagliacci. Mr Peterkin, who is the fortunate possessor of a powerful bass voice of singularly mellow quality, made a great impression. The artist should have a brilliant future before him. He will not attain it, however, until he phrases with more point, and has learned that song has a declamatory as well as a musical side. Has Mr Peterkin, we wonder, ever heard Victor Maurel?It remains only to be said that Mr Robert Newman has catered not only for the ear, but also for the eye and the “creature”. A pretty fountain plays in the centre of the promenade; the orchestra presents the appearance of a small forest; smoking is permitted in every part of the building, and no fewer than four large refreshment and supper booths are available.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Observer, 11 August 1895.