The UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon made a personal appeal to Barack Obama to attend the milestone Rio+20 summit in June, saying his presence would be critical to the summit's success.As the summit approaches, Ban has been working hard to rope in high-level support to avoid "meeting fatigue" and to keep the event on track. The summit's agenda, still a work in progress, risks becoming a free-for-all with its 26 official priorities."President Obama will be crucial," Ban told a forum hosted by the Centre for Global Development, an independent thinktank in Washington. "We count on the United States."Ban said organisers had purposely scheduled Rio+20 immediately after the G20 meeting in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, hoping to lure Obama and other world leaders to attend."I hope he will participate himself immediately after the G20 summit meeting," Ban said. "It's at most a few hours' flight."He went on to urge the audience to lobby the White House on the meeting, convened 20 years after the international community first pledged to work together on climate change and other global concerns. "Please tweet, please tweet," he said.Denmark's development minister, Christian Friss Bach, told the forum Rio was "now becoming a Christmas tree overloaded with candles and decorations", at risk of failure because it lacked a clear focus.The UN secretary general hopes to avoid that outcome by boosting Rio+20's star quotient and by getting leaders to commit to a single goal – in this instance, his energy-for-all agenda.But it will take some convincing to entice Obama to Rio. UN summits like the Rio+20 are a potential political minefield for American presidents in an election year. George Bush Sr famously dithered about attending the first Rio earth summit, in 1992. He decided to get on the plane only after it looked like he might be upstaged by Al Gore's attendance at the meeting and that his absence might cost him independent voters come the elections.George W Bush opted to skip the 2002 summit in Johannesburg.With Tea Party hostility to multilateral institutions, and the association of the original Rio summit with climate change, it could prove politically risky for Obama to accept Ban's invitation.An administration official indicated in a conference call with reporters earlier this week that Obama was inclined to pass on Rio and would not be joining more than 120 other world leaders at the summit.Carlos Pascual, the state department's energy envoy, who was also at the forum on Friday, gave no indication Obama would attend.However, there is hope that Obama will support Ban's energy agenda – even if he does not make it to the summit. Ban is pushing the international community to work for universal access to electricity and double use of renewable energy by 2030. Some 1.3 billion people currently have no access to electricity, which traps them in poverty.