The European commission last month released a preliminary report on the stress tests carried out on Europe's nuclear power plants. The document is only 15 pages plus annexes, but some countries seem to have already drawn their own conclusions.The Czech Republic affirms that its nuclear power stations are not at risk from major earthquakes or floods. Belgium considers that its seven reactors are protected against quakes, floods, terrorist attacks and falling planes.The report produced by Brussels puts the case for tighter safety rules, but with only limited scope. It notes that the regulations already in force before the Fukushima disaster in March are still not being applied throughout the European Union.Twelve EU states, including the UK, Poland, Slovakia and Belgium, have not updated national legislation in line with a 2009 directive on nuclear safety. "At present, there are no common safety standards or criteria for nuclear power plants in the EU," notes the report, suggesting that the stress tests could lead to "minimum technical criteria".The commission cites as one of Fukushima's key lessons the need to secure the "effective independence" of national regulatory authorities, and to enhance the technical and scientific competence of key players.But the report makes no reference to the possible shutdown of reactors failing stress tests. Nor does it answer the objections raised by Greenpeace, which holds that 12 plants in eastern Europe are dangerous and should be decommissioned. Nor yet is there any mention of testing evacuation plans.After the Fukushima accident the European council called for stress tests for the consequences of any type of accident of human or natural origin. In all 143 reactors are operating in 14 member states.The report is based on information submitted in August by some countries. Others, including France, will send in their appraisals at the end of the year. The commission will present a final report in June 2012.The method for the appraisals was decided in May. After noisy discussions the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group produced a text that fell far short of the strict requirements set by Energy Commissioner Günther Oettinger. The plan that was agreed comprises three phases: self-evaluation by plant operators; examination of the findings by national regulators, who then draft a report; then a peer review process by experts and others appointed by the Commission. Their conclusions should be made public. This article originally appeared in Le Monde