Spurred by the need to cut energy use and, in some cases, legal requirements to promote conservation, utility companies have long offered rebates to nudge consumers towards energy efficiency.But now, a handful of US utilities are experimenting with a new strategy, taking their first strides towards becoming retailers of energy efficient gear. San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) in California launched a shopping site in April, and Xcel Energy in Colorado plans to do so in June.The utilities aren’t planning to make money, at least not at first. They say they mainly hope the online retail stores will increase the number of residential rebate claims and, ultimately, reduce energy use. The truth is that rebates, long the main utility strategy for encouraging consumers to buy energy efficient appliances, haven’t been working so well. Even though the US would have required 50% more energy to run its economy if it weren’t for energy efficiency programs in place since 1973, according to energy policy lobby Alliance to Save Energy, only 7% of consumers polled in a 2013 Nielsen survey said they had made use of rebates to replace inefficient appliances. Cumbersome processes to claim rebates are mainly to blame, according to Yoav Lurie, cofounder and CEO of Simple Energy, a software developer and service provider that helps utilities analyze customers’ energy consumption data and deliver energy saving tips. Finding and filling out a claim form, mailing or faxing it with a proof of purchase and then waiting for money to arrive can take nearly two months, he says. Utilities have tried creating buyers’ guides to point out what features and labels to look for, as well as online calculators to help consumers figure out how much energy and money they might save by switching out energy-hogging equipment. But the lure of savings alone apparently isn’t enough to propel many customers through the hassle of replacing their appliances, figuring out which brands and models qualify for rebates and then actually applying for them. Part of the reason may be that monetary rewards alone often aren’t enough to get people to conserve energy, at least not over long term. Research shows that other techniques that can be more effective, especially when more than one is used. Two methods that work well together, for example, involve showing consumers how their energy use compares with their neighbors’ and awarding points for energy savings that can then be redeemed for gift cards, Lurie says. “Shaming someone who is less efficient than his neighbors produces 2% results; shaming someone who is less efficient than his neighbors and giving him a free cup of coffee gets you 5%,” Lurie said.A growing number of utilities – National Grid, Puget Sound Energy, CenterPoint Energy, Georgia Power – are including comparative data on each customer’s monthly bill while offering conservation tips or money to buy energy efficient light bulbs, refrigerators or washers and dryers.To spur more rebate applications, utilities theorize, they need to help make the process of buying new equipment and applying for rebates simpler and more attractive.SDG&E and Xcel hope that creating ecommerce sites – and promoting it on energy bills and over social media – will help accomplish this, not only by boosting rebate claims and the resulting energy efficiency, but also maybe even by helping to build better relationships with customers. From antibiotics to fossil fuels: the inconvenient truth about sustainability “This tool underscores where SDG&E is going: to be its customers’ trusted energy advisor and one-stop shop for the services they need,” said Caroline Winn, vice president of customer services at SDG&E.The utilities are taking different approaches for their sites. Xcel’s is the bolder of the two. The utility plans to sell appliances directly on its own site, with wholesale purchasing and customer service handled by Colorado-based Simple Energy, Lurie says. Xcel declined to discuss the project further until it’s ready for launch.Meanwhile, SDG&E’s site ­– which will be created and run by Simple Energy – will essentially help residential customers comparison-shop for appliances from five retailers: Amazon, Best Buy, Home Depot, Lowe’s and Sears. Customers that fill out an energy audit online will be directed to the marketplace with products related to the results of their audit, Winn explained. A search for refrigerators, for instance, will pull up all the refrigerators available for online purchase from these five retailers that qualify for rebates. If they decide to buy, customers can then click to that retailer’s site to complete the transaction.The Connecticut state government and the state’s utilities also run a similar site, developed by California-based Enervee, which makes software that ranks various appliances’ energy efficiency and pricing, that allows consumers to comparison shop and claim rebates online. Enervee also has created such a site for Pacific Gas and Electric, a utility that serves Northern California. The lighting of the future is here, and it's designed to make you spend While the site may make it easier for customers to find appliances that quality for rebates, it doesn’t necessarily simplify the rebate-claiming process. Sears has agreed to make a point-of-sale deduction, enabling customers to claim the rebate when they buy, but SDG&E is still working to convince the four other retailers to do the same, Winn said.SDG&E plans to see how well its referral site works before deciding whether to become a retailer itself, says Winn, who declined to divulge specific goals for the referral site or its performance so far. At the moment, the utility is only marketing the site to a small group of employees and customers. Effective marketing, which is key to making a real difference with energy-efficient ecommerce, is likely to prove a challenge for utilities, says Catherine Wolfram, professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley and the faculty director of Haas’ Energy Institute.How well consumers like their utilities will affect whether they are willing to spend money on those sites, especially when there’s no shortage of competition, she adds.“We are looking for that big fix. I don’t want to be a big sceptic, but I’d be surprised if this is it,” she says.But if utilities can successfully combine a simpler sales and rebate experience with takeaways from behavioral science and good marketing, they have a chance at getting more customers to switch to greener appliances. And that could mean bigger energy savings, as well as lower energy bills for consumers and potentially fewer new power plants and lower carbon emissions for the planet.The sustainable living hub is funded by Unilever. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled brought to you by. Find out more here.