1. Be a man – obviouslyWomen make up just one out of every five (21%)* Oscar nominees in behind-the-camera roles this year. That’s easy to visualize – just pick out all the women pictured at the nominees luncheon earlier in the month, as we’ve done in the photo above.This is not a particularly new trend. According to analysis by the Women in Media Center, on average 19% of non-acting Oscar nominees have been female over the past four years. There has never been a female nominee for best cinematography and this year no women made the cut for best director, sound editor, sound mixer or for composing an original score. 2. Be white – certainly      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Halle Berry won best actress for her part in Monster’s Ball. Photograph: Steve Granitz/WireImageNot one of the 20 actors nominated for an Oscar this year is black. When this news broke several stars including Will Smith and his wife Jada Pinkett Smith backed a boycott of the awards. Critics zeroed in on the lack of diversity in the Academy itself, which has a membership that is 94% white. The proportion of Oscar winners of acting awards who are black roughly mirrors the demographic makeup of the US population. However, many of these statuettes have been for supporting roles. Halle Berry remains the only black woman to win a best actress award. Diversity is even worse behind the camera. Only three black men have been nominated for best director and not one of them won. 3. Get old – especially if you’re a man      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eddie Redmayne, 34, is the youngest best actor nominee this year. Photograph: Agatha A Nitecka/APAt 70 years old, Charlotte Rampling is this year’s oldest nominee in any of the acting categories. However, that is not a scratch on Jessica Tandy who was nearly 81 when she won for her turn in Driving Miss Daisy.Nevertheless, the median age of best actor winners, at 43, is a nearly 10 years older than the equivalent stat for best actresses. Three out of the five best female nominees this year are under 30, compared with none of the potential best actors this year. 4. And … set your film in New York      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   West Side Story, one of the best-picture winning movies set in New York. Photograph: Ronald Grant Archive/Ronald GrantFrom the Broadway Melody back in 1929 to last year’s winner Birdman, New York has been the primary location for a grand total of 16 best picture-winning movies. That is not including films such as Godfather II, which feature extended sequences in the city. No other state in the US has been so heavily represented. Looking outside the US, 12 of the best picture winners have been predominantly located in the UK with the first of these being Cavalcade back in 1933. Lord of the Rings: Return of the King is the only movie set in a fantasy location (or proto-Earth for pedants) to be awarded with a best picture statuette.*21% our own figure and includes the best directors for foreign language film. Those names are not included for the Women in Media Center analysis