Debbie Reynolds: Talking Pictures 1pm, BBC2Last year was never going to bow out without a few final insults, yet the death of Debbie Reynolds, the day after her daughter Carrie Fisher died, was particularly heartbreaking. Sylvia Syms narrates a profile of Reynolds – known for her performances in Singin’ in the Rain, The Unsinkable Molly Brown and others, by way of archive clips and interviews, exploring her career, relationship with husband Eddie Fisher and no-less-famous daughter. Ali CatterallLet It Shine 7pm, BBC1Week three of the talent show-cum-audition, and the series looks close to hitting new heights for hatewatching. This week, the hopefuls partake in a third round of solo auditions while trying to woo the panel, as Graham Norton and Mel Giedroyc continue their own parallel quest to eke out an ounce of entertainment from proceedings. Continued proof that while the BBC may have lost The Voice, we’re still wishing Gary Barlow – the Michael Owen of pop – would lose his. Mark Gibbings-JonesThe Voice UK 8pm, ITVThe channel-hopping karaoke clash rumbles onward with another batch of blind auditions, as coaches Tom Jones, Will.i.am, Gavin Rossdale and Jennifer Hudson attempt to fill out their talent quotas. Being filmed in-the-round gives the live audience more prominence than ever before but the giant stylised V hovering above each contender can be a little distracting during the blind auditions; it makes them look rather like escapees from a pop-themed Sims video game. Graeme VirtueTaboo 9.15pm, BBC1Following his moonlight dust-up with an assassin last week – during which he indulged some of those cannibalistic tendencies he’s rumoured to be partial to – Tom Hardy’s inscrutable Delaney decides he needs to take out some insurance to stop everyone trying to murder him. His solution is ingenious, but when he finds himself with an unexpected new houseguest, his position is compromised. The action remains compelling, and our hero very much in need of a hot bath. Ben ArnoldThrough The Keyhole 9.30pm, ITV Keith Lemon once again opens the door to a world of single entendre under the premise of nosing around celebrities’ homes. Jokes revolve around Lemon’s habit of pronouncing the show’s name as “Fruit Keyhole” and his inappropriate behaviour as he looks for clues. He’s a man who’d lick your shower curtain and pop your underwear on his head. Back in the studio, Jimmy Carr, Marvin Humes and Kate Garraway must guess who lives in a house like this. Hannah VerdierDB Cooper: Case Closed? 9pm, CIThe whereabouts of the man who procured a hefty ransom aboard a domestic flight in 1971 – before promptly disappearing – has long intrigued both the US and the wider world. Such is the pull of the DB Cooper legend, it was rumoured that Mad Men would end with a nod to the skyjacking. While that didn’t happen, Cooper remains a cult crook: this decent new two-parter sees FBI agents and reporters try to figure out his true identity. Concludes next Saturday. Hannah J DaviesGod Bless Ozzy Osbourne 11pm, Sky ArtsOzzy is a great person to interview: having made peace with his demons, he has nothing to hide and a funny way of talking about the past. This film deals well with Ozzy’s rise from petty criminal to rock star and poster child for bad behaviour, but also travels behind the anecdotes. He’s a genial fellow on camera, but the effect his debauched life had on his estranged wife Sharon and their children evidently causes him some discomfort. John RobinsonFilm Choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A violent and gripping adventure … Bruce Willis in Looper. Photograph: Alan MarkfieldStar Trek(JJ Abrams, 2009), 9pm, Sky 1Setting out to regenerate the tiring Star Trek formula after its 40-odd years in space, Abrams boldly spins a ripping yarn of a prequel to the original 60s series. Chris Pine’s young tearaway James T Kirk stows away on the Enterprise, meets up with Vulcan sidekick Spock (Zachary Quinto) and the rest of the crew and saves a big chunk of the universe, in a warp-factor-eight adventure that includes the poignant appearance (via some time-travel trickery) of Leonard Nimoy’s aged Spock. Paul HowlettLooper(Rian Johnson, 2012), 10.30pm, BBC2Rian Johnson’s head-spinning sci-fi thriller has Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Bruce Willis playing the same Kansas hitman Joe, the younger version contracted to hunt down and kill his older self, until they join forces to terminate a time-travelling crime syndicate. It’s a violent and gripping adventure, with wisecracking, old-school noirish dialogue. Paul HowlettBlack Swan(Darren Aronofsky, 2010), 1.30am, Film4Aronofsky’s deliriously off-the-wall horror-drama has a painfully intense Natalie Portman as ballerina Nina, who is chosen to play Odette/Odile in Swan Lake. But overbearing director Vincent Cassel’s insistence that she must find her dark, sexual inner self in order to play the evil Black Swan leads to a spectacular breakdown in which reality and fantasy merge horribly. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportPremier League Football: Liverpool v Swansea 12noon, BT Sport 1 The Swans look to spring an upset. Man City v Spurs airs at 5pm.Champions Cup Rugby: Clermont v Exeter 12.30pm, BT Sport 2 Followed by Saracens v Toulon (3pm) and Leicester v Glasgow (5.15pm). On Sky Sports 2, there’s Sale v Scarlets (3pm) and Munster v Racing 92 (5.15pm).Australian Open Tennis 12midnight, Eurosport 1 Day seven coverage.