      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat 8/NasaAnalysis of data collected by several Landsat satellites suggests that northern Argentina’s Chaco forests face one of the fastest tropical deforestation rates in the world.The Chaco forests spread across a vast outwash plain in the centre of South America and for many years, puestos – small settlements centred around water sources –dotted the landscape. But in the past decade, large industrial-scale farm and ranch operators have cleared broad swaths of the Chaco. This false-colour image shows fields, forests, and puestos in Salta in October 2015. Fires are burning in a few sectors of the field grid, likely lit by land managers trying to clear shrubs and trees to make room for livestock, timber, or crops. Fresh burn scars are dark brown; older burn scars are lighter brown. Over time, burned areas become light green and eventually dark green.In the lower right of the image, several traditional puestos are visible as light green patches. Tree cover declines significantly at the center of a puesto because of heavy grazing by cattle, goats, and other free-ranging livestock near the water source. Ecologists call the distinctive grazing patterns piospheres.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Modis/Aqua/NasaThe skies over Portugal and Spain took on an unusually yellow hue as a vast plume of sand and dust was blown northward over the Iberian peninsula from the Sahara desert by the “calima”, a warm south-easterly wind common in North Africa in winter. The calima often carries dust toward the Canary Islands, but an atmospheric low-pressure system pulled the winds north on 21 February.British astronaut Tim Peake noticed the dust from the International Space Station and shared his view of it via Twitter.Africa is the world’s largest source of dust in the atmosphere, contributing about 70% of the total. Airborne mineral dust from the world’s deserts delivers nutrients to the land and ocean, and affects the atmosphere and climate.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ISS/ESA/Nasa Photograph: ISS/Nasa Astronaut Scott Kelly posted this photo, taken during a night pass aboard the International Space Station, on Twitter with the caption: “#Italy and the #Alps last night were breathtaking!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: OLI/Landsat 8/NASAIn the south end of San Francisco Bay, researchers and conservationists are working to restore ancient natural history at the same time as they preserve some more recent history. Before humans started building settlements along the shores of San Francisco Bay, one of the world’s largest estuaries was surrounded by some of the world’s most extensive wetlands. By the Gold Rush days of the mid-1800s, humans started carving up the area for salt production. Levees were built, ponds were created, and humans began harvesting salt from the seawater. The industrial-scale operation eventually altered 80 to 85% of the original shoreline, almost completely remaking the ecosystems. Many species faded from the bay, though some others found new ways to live amid the brines and salt flats.The South Bay Salt Pond restoration project is a government and private effort to return most of the shoreline to tidal wetlands and marshlands, while keeping some of the salt-making heritage and landscape. The project began in late 2002 when 15,100 acres of industrial salt ponds were acquired for restoration and management.This image shows the project’s progress as of October last year. On the far left, the bright, gypsum-covered salt flats of the Ravenswood Pond Complex have undergone restoration. Bay waters were returned to some ponds (turned from white to dark green), while others were left as salt flats because a few species have adapted well. In one area (just east of the bridge), artificial mounds and miniature islands were constructed to provide critical habitat for some bird species.On the north side of the image, the bright orange and brown parcels are still being used for salt production. Water is pumped into one area, allowed to evaporate, and then the brines are moved along to the next pond. Through advances in technology, Cargill now uses roughly half as much land to make nearly as much salt as they did before transferring land for conservation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Modis/Terra/NasaThe Gulf of Venezuela is a kidney-shaped embayment sitting at the north-western tip of South America, separating the Guajira peninsula in Colombia in the west and the Paraguaná peninsula of Venezuela in the east. In this image, tan sediment pours into the Gulf of Venezuela from the Tablazo Strait. The sediment is tan as it floats near the surface of the water, but as it sinks lower its reflective properties change and the colour appears more greenish. Heavy sediment, which appears a muddy brown, floats between the Paraguaná peninsula and mainland Venezuela. In the far south of the image, clouds lie over Lake Maracaibo, not far from the inflow of Catatumbo river.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Sentinel-A2/ESAThe diverse landscapes around Madrid in the heart of Spain can be seen in this image. Zooming in, we can see the Buen Retiro park just east of the city centre with its large, artificial pond. About 3.5km due north sits the Santiago Bernabéu football stadium. South-east of the stadium we can see the Las Ventas bullfighting ring. In the upper left corner of the image is the El Pardo mountain and protected natural park. The other areas surrounding Madrid are blanketed with agricultural structures. East of the city are large fields along the Jarama river, and more areas of agriculture appearing brown further east still.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: VIIRS/Suomi NPP /NasaPhytoplankton are the grass of the sea. They are floating, drifting, plant-like organisms that harness the energy of the sun, mix it with carbon dioxide that they take from the atmosphere, and turn it into carbohydrates and oxygen. Phytoplankton are critical to the marine food web, being the primary producers of food for the oceanic food web, from zooplankton to fish and shellfish to whales.In mid-summer 2016 in the southern hemisphere, they took up a large part of the Southern Ocean, stretching from the tip of South America to the Antarctic peninsula. The blooms in this image formed just west of the Drake passage, one of the most turbulent mixing regions in the ocean. Winds and water currents are steady and strong, and the ocean and atmosphere exchange a lot of heat, water, and other natural chemicals. With abundant summer sunshine and lots of nutrients being churned up, the waters can become a factory for the creation of oxygen.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Modis/Aqua/NasaThe Kerguelen Islands sit approximately equidistant from Africa, Australia and Antarctica and are part of the French Southern and Antarctic Territories. Grande Terre is the largest island, captured in this image. About 300 additional islands, islets and reefs make up the volcanic archipelago.The weather on Grande Terre is notably bad. Located in the howling winds of the “furious fifties”, the island not only suffers incessant harsh wind, but a near-constant cloud cover brings rain or snow almost every day. The topography is nearly as harsh as the climate. Steep fjords line the coastal perimeter of the island, and the volcanic landscape’s ridges and valleys are sparsely covered by vegetation. Glaciers crawl across the rocky land, slowly grinding the underlying stone into a fine powder. The largest glacier is the Cook Ice Cap. Located in the western section of the island, this bright white, nearly circular feature is easily seen from space.Despite the harsh conditions this island, as well as the other, smaller, islands in the Kerguelen chain, provide a haven for several species of wildlife, including dozens of species of birds. Penguins, elephant seals and fur seals also call the Kerguelen Islands home.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Sentinel-2A/ESA Photograph: Sentinel-2A/ESALa Rochelle, capital of the Charente-Maritime department in western France, is a city and a seaport on the Bay of Biscay, part of the Atlantic Ocean.  Home to some 80,000 people, it is connected to the Île de Ré by a 2.9km-long bridge, clearly visible in the centre of the image.The coastal area is dominated by sandy beaches, which are visible as white lines somewhat inland. Between the beach and the water-line, darker sand and silt layers are visible, which are exposed in this image taken during low tide. The 4–5m tidal range creates a heaven for wild mussels and oysters, making it one of the major places for shell farming in Europe.Also visible just north of the city is the airport. You can clearly make out the various agricultural fields around the city and surrounding towns, as well as on the Île de Ré.Part of the Natural Reserve of the Bay of Aiguillon is visible at top right. It is one of the most important reserves in France, hosting hundreds of thousands of migratory water birds every year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ISS/NasaAstronaut Scott Kelly posted this photo on Twitter with the caption: “Cool frozen lake in #Himalayas!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Modis/NasaAlthough the landscape of eastern China is painted with a wash of grey haze, the skies are relatively clear for this time of year. The cool air of winter often brings temperature inversions to eastern China, causing thick haze to build up and obscure the land from satellite view. Air normally cools with altitude, but during an inversion warm air settles above a layer of cool air near the surface. The warm air acts like a lid and traps pollutants near the surface, especially in basins and valleys. Even without an inversion, however, haze and smoke can be seen settling in the valleys between mountains and valleys.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Modis/Terra/NasaMeteorologists break convective clouds into two main groups: closed-celled and open-celled. On 1 February, Nasa’s Terra satellite acquired an image that juxtaposes both types. Closed-cell clouds look similar to a capped honeycomb from above, with opaque cumulus clouds at the center of the cells. Open-celled clouds have the opposite look. Rather than being at the centre of a cell, lines of clouds trace the cell borders, leaving the centres cloud-free.While quite common, cellular cloud patterns were unknown to meteorologists until the launch of the first weather satellites. The closely packed mesh of clouds were too large to be recognised by ground-based instruments and even airplanes. The first image of open-cell convection was published in February 1961, after the launch of the TIROS-1 satellite.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: ISS/Nasa/ESAThis photograph taken from the International Space Station shows striking shoreline patterns at Roebuck Bay, on the coast of the desert landscape of Western Australia. The indents along the shoreline (centre and left) are points where small, straight streams reach the bay. Even smaller tributaries give a feathered appearance to this shoreline. By contrast, the more typical meandering channel patterns of coastal wetlands appear on the top right.Almost no human-built patterns are visible in the scene, even though the town of Broome lies just outside the image on the top right. The exceptions are the few fence lines crossing the straight streams in the bottom third of the image.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Modis/Aqua/NasaThis image of dust lying on top of snow in central Asia puzzled scientists. What was the source of the dust, and how did it get there?“It certainly looks like silt or fine-grained material that was wind-swept onto the snow,” said Kimberly Casey, a cryospheric scientist at Nasa’s Goddard Space Flight Center. She notes that the dust appears to originate at a point in north-western China, and it extends for about 400km north-west into Kazakhstan. “The snow appears to melt and then the exposed area contributes to locally generated dust that spreads west-north-westward,” said David Giles, a programmer and analyst with the AERONET aerosol research program at Nasa Goddard.Casey wondered if the source area is in a topographic depression, such as a river bed. “Perhaps a river or canyon bottom is dried in the winter, and the fine-grained silt is easily transported by wind.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Modis/Aqua/NasaNasa’s Aqua satellite passed over the Central African Republic and captured a true-colour image of wave clouds rippling over a fire-speckled landscape, illustrated here by red dots. Wave clouds typically form when a mountain, island, or even another mass of air forces an air mass to rise, then fall again, in a wave pattern. The air cools as it rises, and if there is moisture in the air, the water condenses into clouds at the top of the wave. As the air begins to sink, the air warms and the cloud dissipates. The result is a line of clouds marking the crests of the wave separated by clear areas in the troughs of the wave.In addition to the long lines of clouds stretching across the central section of the country, clouds appear to line up in parallel rows near the border of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In this area, small sets of greyish cloud appear to be lined up with the prevailing wind. Clouds like this, that line in parallel rows parallel with the prevailing wind, are known as “cloud streets”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Credits: Sentinel-2A/NasaLike most of Egypt’s landscape, the image is dominated by arid desert – namely the Eastern desert between the Nile river the Red Sea. The distinctive pattern of water erosion from rivers and streams is clearly visible as they make their way towards the Nile, at which point the rolling sandy highlands drop abruptly at the Nile valley, visible along the bottom of the image.The Nile valley is one of the world’s most densely populated areas. The river is the primary source of water for both Egypt and Sudan’s populations, supporting life in an otherwise uninhabitable environment, as evident by the stark contrast between the colours of this image. Fields of intensive farming along the Nile appear red owing to this false-colour image being processed to include the near-infrared. Zooming in along the bottom we can see clusters of black dots where cities and towns are located, in addition to the fields. In the lower right, just above the red area, there is an interesting pattern of roads from our bird’s-eye view – possibly a developing residential area.