Jacques Rivette obituary A phrase that occasionally crops up in cinema criticism is “real time”. This is the effect of unediting: the long, slow, unhurried and continuous camera takes that seek the experience of life itself. And maybe also invite the audience to glimpse, through the sheer hypnotic steadiness of this gaze – like those novelty Magic Eye pictures of the 1990s – something else: a mysterious figure in the carpet, a pattern behind the images of everyday life. The New Wave director Jacques Rivette was a master of the real-time aesthetic in cinema, unafraid of letting his movies roll out at length, with people walking, talking, existing, but on a cerebral yet playful plane of imagination and discourse that always made his pictures quite distinct from social realism. He was also always fascinated with the theatre and theatrical illusion.His mid-period picture Celine and Julie Go Boating (1974) ran for three hours and nine minutes. His later work La Belle Noiseuse (1991) was just shy of four hours. Before these, his cult classic Out 1 (1971), conceived for television, ran to 12 hours and 40 minutes. Rivette was a director who believed in spaciousness in the cinema, and asked for an investment of attention. Although his best work came in a later decade, there was a Warholian spirit of the 60s in Rivette: a spirit of process rather than product; a sense that each of his movies was something to be lived in and lived through. He was an integral though late-blooming member of that remarkable and remarkably long-lived New Wave generation comprising Truffaut, Godard, Chabrol, Demy, Rohmer and Varda. Rivette, like his contemporaries, carried on thinking, creating and innovating right until the very end.It took me a bit of time to acquire a taste for Rivette, and I confess that my favourite is the slightly atypical Va Savoir (2001), translated as Who Knows?, which comes in at a less forbidding two and a half hours. It is an essay, a fantasia, a Shakespearean comedy, a jeu d’ésprit, a meditation on meaning and a wacky farce, involving a rooftop escape and an extraordinary, almost Hitchcockian set piece atop a vertiginous fly-tower in a theatre. Jeanne Balibar plays a stage actor performing in a production of Pirandello in Paris and having an affair with an ex-boyfriend, a postgraduate student of philosophy forever brooding over his thesis. Meanwhile, her actual boyfriend (and director) is having adventures of his own. It is an elegant, eccentric delight and a lovely demonstration of Rivette’s distinctive touch for comedy.French new wave director Jacques Rivette – a career in pictures It is also in its way a continuation of Celine and Julie Go Boating, though more conventionally scripted and shaped. Celine and Julie – a cult classic – is loose and free. The direction is something you might take on a boating lake: ie, directionless. Two young women meet up in Paris and hang out: one is haunted by visions of an unhappy family to which she possibly belongs. The seat-of-the-pants location work and improv acting style is very Rivette. Before that, his experimental epic Out 1 was even more difficult, more opaque: a gigantic free-form canvas with Jean-Pierre Léaud (that avatar of the New Wave) at its centre. He is a mysterious figure apparently trying to make sense of nebulous enigmas and conspiracies all around him, connected with theatrical troupes preparing to mount Seven Against Thebes and Prometheus. It is an occult anthropology: a grainy fly-on-the-wall cinema – observing the movement of other flies.La Belle Noiseuse (an adaptation of Balzac’s 1831 story The Unknown Masterpiece) is sometimes regarded as Rivette’s masterpiece. Michel Piccoli is Frenhofer, the quietly retired painter who is electrified by the visit of a younger artist who brings with him his devastatingly beautiful girlfriend, played by Emmanuelle Béart. Frenhofer decides that this young woman will be the model for a painting (La Belle Noiseuse) which he had once abandoned. This creative rebirth may also be the destruction of his peace of mind. Rivette does not find in this situation anything to accelerate the tempo. Counterintuitively, for a story about artistry and sexual excitement, it takes a slow pace, showing long, slow closeups of the painter’s hand and canvas. With great artistry, Rivette disperses sexuality and rapture throughout the fabric of the film.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jane Birkin and Michel Piccoli in La Belle Noiseuse (1991). Photograph: Ronald Grant ArchiveRivette’s other, late gem is The Duchess of Langeais (2007), also taken from Balzac – in this case, his 1834 novel Don’t Touch the Axe. For some, that title may be weirdly reminiscent of Pink Floyd; actually it refers to the axe used to behead the British monarch Charles I, an object full of understandable taboo horror for French aristocrats in the 1820s, when this love story is set. It is a slow and subtle film of great refinement and charm.Any discussion of Rivette comes round to his very first feature, Paris Belongs to Us, from 1961 – another film that takes some living with. It’s as magnificently self-aware and self-indulgent as any of his other movies, but this is a key text for the New Wave, with its cameos for Godard and Chabrol: more theatre, more conspiracy, more idealism, more talk, more sexiness. There is such confidence and revolutionary elan: nothing sums up the unspoken mission statement of the New Wave more than the title Rivette gave this movie – a work that many felt fired the starting gun for the whole movement. Paris really was theirs. And from there, Rivette maintained an extraordinary creative career lasting 48 years.