When our lawyer told me that she didn’t think the law could help us, but she could organise a gun for us, reality came to an end. From then on we lived in the realm of the unimaginable.Reality is not boundless; it has limits. At that time, more than a decade ago, my wife and I and our kids were living in the suburbs of Berlin. My reality was a civilised middle-class life – family, job, friends, books – protected by the rule of law and democracy. Then a stalker burst into our everyday existence – Herr T, our downstairs neighbour, who was at first friendly, then too friendly and then nastily intrusive, turning up out of nowhere and harassing us with threats, letters and accusations of criminal behaviour.'It could be any of these men': how we learned to take stalking seriously He tried to invade our flat one night when I was away and my wife was alone with the children. He hid a ladder under our bedroom window and we suspected that he used it to spy on us at night. He did these things, he said,to protect our children, because we were abusing them, a claim he made to our neighbours and to the police. He wrote a “love poem” to my wife, in which he fantasised about killing her. For a few months we went through hell.Such things happen; you hear of them. A stalker is someone we can all imagine and we know that, if the worst comes to the worst, the law is there to protect us. Anyone on the right side of the law will be helped. This is the pact we all enter into with the state. We renounce the use of force, leaving the monopoly on violence to the public authorities, and in exchange the police and the judiciary protect us if we are threatened.Full of optimism, I went to the police and made an appointment with our lawyer, confident that I could get the law to work for us. But I was told that unfortunately nothing could be done. Twice I was more or less explicitly advised to take matters into my own hands with a gun. I wanted to protect my family and found myself up against the question: do I shoot him or don’t I?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dirk Kurbjuweit: ‘At that time I really felt like we were living in a novel.’ Photograph: Maurice Weiss/Ostkreuz – Agentur der Fotografen GmbHWhen something of this kind happens, it’s never long before somebody says, “It’s like a film,” or, “It’s straight out of a novel.” Films and novels are classic fields of expansion of reality. By having recourse to fictional worlds we link the unimaginable with what we have seen or read, making it paradoxically more real – easier to imagine and less uncanny.At that time I really felt like we were living in a novel. Almost everything we thought and a great deal of what we said and did changed dramatically when the stalker entered our world. Eight years later I began work on an actual novel, Fear, which is derived from those events. Now, apart from the reality of that time, which seemed fictional to me, there is also a work of fiction based on that reality, although it is not identical to it.Written narratives – whether newspaper stories, works of nonfiction, novels or Facebook posts – always stand in a complex relationship to reality. The act of writing creates a version of reality which lays claim to validity without, ultimately, being valid in the sense of being true. In their different ways, all these forms of writing can only approach truth.In my first novel there is a woman who likes having sex in rubber gloves. After my first public reading of this novel, the first question from the audience was whether I liked having sex in rubber gloves. I didn’t know what to say. Simply to deny it seemed inadequate. I didn’t feel that the novel needed to be measured against reality. Now, after writing eight novels and doing countless readings and interviews, I know that one of the questions that most interests the pundits is: how much of this book is about you? The answer is simple: all of it. Every word is based on a decision I have made, a decision that comes from me. But that is not what is meant by the question. What is meant is: how much of it have you experienced personally?It is the question of reality, of authenticity. No writer can provide an unequivocal answer; no writer knows the answer, because being a writer means, among other things, having your sense of reality undermined. It is easy for me to tell a talkshow host that there really was a stalker in my life. But does that mean that Randolph Tiefenthaler, the main character in Fear, is really me?Not long ago the writer Michael Köhlmeier said: “Once a character exists, I watch him with curiosity to see what he’ll do.” I feel the same, although I couldn’t have put it so well. If I had written a book of nonfiction about my experiences with our stalker, I’d have watched myself. As my novel developed, I watched Randolph Tiefenthaler, who began as an “I” but gradually became autonomous.Anyone who writes a novel based on his own life bends the truth to delve into it all the deeper. No life, however exciting, is a novel. It is not memory that creates a novel, but narrative. Memory provides a frame, but if each sentence answers a question, that question is not, “What happened?” but, “What does the narrative need?” Literature is born when narrative triumphs over experience. Tiefenthaler invents a life for himself and tells his story from within this invented life. If reality gets in the way, he pushes it aside.The best writers create a story that is more real than a true-life report. “Writing is an internal investigation into the soul,” Salman Rushdie said, talking about his book Joseph Anton. Internal, but public. There are various ways of contending with this. Rushdie’s book is an autobiography written in the third person, a form which made it easier for him to write things that hurt, things that revealed unpleasant sides to his character.It has to hurt when you write a novel, or it will have no power. Some writers – and I am one of them – can only cope with the pain by translating their reality into fiction – by stepping out of their own worlds, by making themselves “strange” and becoming part of what they invent. Am I Randolph Tiefenthaler? No. He is one of me. And through him I can say what hurts me, although I wouldn’t let on where in the novel. Used in this way, fiction allows us to speak the whole truth.Many people write about their own lives for therapeutic reasons. This was not the case with me. By the time I began to write our stalker had died of natural causes; the events, which had taken place years before, had long been digested. Working on the novel, I returned to hell, but not to cure myself of anything; I came back in the role of the Devil. I reorganised hell and got to decide who suffered and how.***When Herr T was tormenting us the big question was: what shall we do about him if the state won’t do anything? In a desperate moment I asked a police officer, “What would you do?” He looked at me and said nothing, and, in that moment of silence, his hand drifted to his service pistol and lingered there. First the lawyer, then the police officer. But by then I had begun to think about a violent solution anyway.The gun was a possibility. The idea smouldered in my mind and sometimes, to my own horror, I would imagine myself gripping the weapon, pulling the trigger. Taking the law into your own hands is something I regarded – and still regard – as deeply wrong. Tiefenthaler has the same thoughts that I had, but arrives at a different decision. He lets the gun into his life and in the end a shot is fired. I cannot deny that I felt a touch of satisfaction writing that for Tiefenthaler. Helplessness is humiliating. As a man I was expected to protect my family from Herr T, but I was unable and unwilling to assume the role of a Hollywood hero. Tiefenthaler did not rehabilitate me or avenge me, but he did live out the consequences of such an act for me. Unsurprisingly he didn’t get on too well and fiction became a consolation for me.One problem with the novel is that it is expected to be more plausible than life. In a newspaper report you can tell any true-life story, however unlikely, and it is lent credibility by the research that has gone into it – that is to say, by the reader’s assumption that the reporter has probed reality so deeply that what he or she writes must be true. A fictional narrative, on the other hand, has to be convincing. That is another paradox: fiction must appear real, while reality may appear unreal as long as it is substantiated.One criterion for a novel’s plausibility is that there shouldn’t be too many improbable coincidences. There is, however, one such coincidence in my own life: I grew up with weapons and learnt to shoot as a child. When the lawyer offered us a gun, things seemed to come full circle, as if all my life had been building up to this one shot. But wouldn’t that seem contrived in a novel? Wouldn’t it be laying it on a bit thick? The moment that made a novel out of my life was almost too extreme for a novel. But Randolph Tiefenthaler decided that he had learnt to shoot as a child. That was fine by me. I was able to tell him a little about what it meant.Interestingly, a lot of people now report on their own lives, on Facebook or Twitter. In these live tickers of day-to-day existence, anyone can experience the feeling of being part of a grand narrative. In the past such position taking was almost exclusively the reserve of people like me – writers.What distinguishes these posts on social networks from newspaper stories is that they tend to focus on the individual, rather than on the outside world. What distinguishes them from the novel is that they report almost entirely on successful lives. Nothing hurts on Facebook or Twitter; you show your cheerful side and respond positively to whatever happens. “Lovely evening in Seaview Restaurant!” The novel, on the other hand, tells us more about adversity and failure. How strange it would have been if we had live-tweeted about Herr T: “Now he’s trying to break into our flat through the garden door.”What distinguishes the self-narratives on Facebook or Twitter from reportage and the novel is that they do not, on the whole, point beyond themselves. That is not to say that what happens on social media is in any way reprehensible; it is merely another version of reality – prettier, “selfier”, atomised. In principle it works in an opposite way to the novel: while the novel uses the life of a fictionalised individual to evoke the lives and thoughts of many people, the multiple reports on Facebook reflect the ordinariness of each individual.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Thus the written image of reality is changing. Journalism and fiction are turning to stories that are eye-catching and action-packed, while social networks report on everyday existence. In that respect they are more normative than the hyped-up lives on display in newspapers, magazines and novels. I kept a diary while Herr T was stalking us. When I was working on Fear I reread it and was surprised at how much everyday life our hell had contained, how things had simply gone on.Reality is made up of fragments, and memory is only a form of first-person narrative on a wobbly base. We don’t keep one version of our lives in our heads, but many. I sometimes find it difficult to distinguish my own experiences from Randolph Tiefenthaler’s. Which of us hammered furiously on Herr T’s door? Was it once? Twice? Three times? And what did I threaten to do to him? Since there are gaps in my diary, I can’t say for sure. Translated by Imogen Taylor • Fear by Dirk Kurbjuweit is published by Text Publishing (RRP $29.99)