Perhaps the most striking thing about David Bowie’s death last month was how meticulously crafted it seemed. In the days of grief and grief-policing that followed, critics pored over his final album Blackstar and claimed to find within it all manner of cryptic hints about the singer’s passing. Bowie, it seemed, had left a parting gift: the proverbial tree in whose shade he’d never sit.Of course, Bowie’s lyrical exit was soon overshadowed by a mass re-examination of his entire life’s work. Nineteen of his albums re-appeared in the UK Top 100, while Netflix’s Currently Trending section – this generation’s obituary of record – was soon dominated by a striking image of Bowie in full regalia as Jareth the Goblin King.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The fact that Labyrinth – a wobbly film by any measure – remains one of Bowie’s most iconic movie roles says something about the idiosyncrasy of his acting choices. Among 18 feature film appearances, Bowie played a vanishing FBI agent, a semi-fictionalised Serbian physicist, and Pontius Pilate, but he didn’t step into the shoes of an ordinary man until 1991’s The Linguini Incident, in which he starred as a down-on-his-luck New York bartender, albeit while looking like he’d just stepped off stage from the Glass Spider tour.This week, the film is reissued on DVD, with distributor ITV presumably intending to give at least some share of the profits to charity (to do otherwise might reasonably be seen as a shameless attempt to cash in on the death of a man beloved by millions). Alongside Bowie, Rosanna Arquette plays a waitress keen to leave the service industry behind and become an escape artist. The pair join forces to rob the chintzy establishment in which they both work: him hoping to finance a sham marriage for reasons simultaneously enigmatic and entirely unintriguing, her keen to purchase an antique wedding ring once owned by Harry Houdini’s wife. It’s the kind of premise that could apparently get a film green-lit in 1991, though it held no appeal for audiences (director Richard Shepard later described the film’s best review as coming from his father, who called it “longish”).You can just about see what Shepard was aiming for: namely something approaching the surrealist chic of Twin Peaks, which was then at the height of its powers. Instead, the stilted dialogue and static camerawork leaves The Linguini Incident feeling more like Invitation To Love, the intentionally gaudy soap opera watched by the characters of Twin Peaks.Bowie, for his part, said he was “quite happy” with the film, which may cause fans to think themselves lucky that his final years were dedicated to music, and that his movie career remained where he so ingloriously left it: with an inexplicable cameo in the 2009 Vanessa Hudgens musical Bandslam.