The ruckus begins up the road, towards the beach. Stabbing shouts, the piercing clap of bilma, the rising chant of manikay. The mob of 40 or more Yolngu advances, crouching and springing, knees and elbows at angles. Some are smeared in white clay, trailing vines and feathers. Most come as they are. One wiry older man sports a Kiss T-shirt. The bunggul gathers in force as it reaches the sandy expanse in front of the Yirrkala Art Centre. The only rain shower of the bright blue day clears their path like a surreal blessing. By the time the elders climb the stage to lead the song, the dance is more than 100 strong. It kicks up sand and draws children running from the football match on the oval across the car park.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The bunggul gathers force at the Yirrkala Yarrapay Music and Dance festival. Photograph: Wayne Quilliam The people are singing their country. Soon, 14-year-old Siena Mayutu Wurmarri Stubbs will be on the same stage, singing Justin Bieber. And, as night falls, Arnhem Land’s global megastar, Geoffrey Gurrumul Yunupingu, will make a surprise appearance. The word “eclectic” only begins to describe the inaugural Yirrkala Yarrapay (Morning Star) festival. In the day ahead, Moonfish Dance Company unveil a new contemporary piece, featuring Yolngu music meshed with Adele’s Hello, and Brisbane grunge-rock powerhouse the Medics follow a fashion parade of local “supermodels”, starring Yirrkala’s very own Miss Australia hopeful, Magnolia Maymuru. From urban grooves to red-dirt folk, hard rock to hip-hop and slick boy bands, over nine hours it sometimes seems that the only thing these 200 performers share is the ground they stand on. But out here, that’s kind of everything. The voice of Yirrkala is strong. The Yolngu community on the far northeastern tip of Arnhem Land – a long day’s drive east of Darwin – made the first Indigenous land rights appeal to the commonwealth back in 1963.  The protest against a planned bauxite mine was filed on bark petitions, now enshrined in Parliament House in Canberra. Thirty years later, another demand for recognition put this place on the pop charts. The mine is still quietly working and so is Yothu Yindi’s dance-rock landmark, Treaty.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Surprise superstar: Geoffrey Gurrumul Yunupingu flew in from nearby Elcho Island to perform a short, unscheduled set. Photograph: Wayne Quilliam Homage to that band’s lead singer, the late Dr M Yunupingu, is the stated intention of the festival. His wife, Yalmay, takes the stage early to invoke his legacy as an educator, custodian of culture and inspiration for what has become a unique wellspring of Indigenous art in all its forms.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yirrkala model Magnolia Maymuru – Northern Territory Miss World finalist and great-granddaughter of Yothu Yindi’s Dr M Yunupingu – on the catwalk at the Yirrkala Yarrapay Music and Dance festival. Photograph: Wayne Quilliam As the footy kicks on behind the IGA supermarket, a slow crowd trickles in to sit in the shade of the bush hibiscus and mango trees that circle the stage. Town dogs wander between close-packed families on straw mats. An unfeasibly large number of children slowly encrust the palm frond-decorated stage.The Aboriginal community legend Shellie Morris harmonises as Dhapanbal, the daughter of Yalmay and Dr Yunupingu, sings her debut single, Gurtha (The Fire), a collaboration that has recently followed Treaty onto Triple J’s playlist. Morris talks to the crowd like a fond auntie, singing songs about staying off the grog, about an old man in Kakadu who was pressured to sign some paper he shouldn’t have, another in a tongue that only a handful of her grandmother’s people still remember. A universal plea for tolerance and humanity comes from southern states rapper Jimblah, whose pre-sundown set features his own muted take on Treaty. Brisbane rockers Mary Handsome, featuring Yirrkala-raised Roy Kellaway, reignite Yothu Yindi’s Tribal Voice in a spectacular collision of dance, yidaki and surviving members past and future — including the intensely focused five-year-old dancer TJ Mununggurr. Homecoming firebrand Yirrmal has honed the laser intensity of his voice around the pubs of Melbourne, where he’s been mentored by Shane Howard and Neil Murray. Today, his passions inflamed by his return to country, he drives home his solo acoustic songs of belonging and bridge-building like nothing else matters. It might be the day’s most astonishing performance. His father, Witiyana Marika, co-founder of Yothu Yindi, joins him to sing Bayini, Gurrumul’s 2013 hit duet with Delta Goodrem. It was written, incidentally, by East Journey’s Rrawun Maymuru, the father of model Magnolia.  Confused yet? A very big sheet of stringybark would be required to map the ties of kinship that link so many of the performers who grace this stage. By the time Yothu’s heirs apparent, East Journey, gather their sprawling forces around 11pm, the gig has become a carousel of walk-on cameos spanning three or four generations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Justice Crew’s John Pearce meets Yirrkala children. Photograph: Wayne Quilliam Alas, their thunder is stolen by Sydney party boys the Justice Crew, whose impeccably choreographed breakdance moves and shout-along choruses about loving life and going boom-boom have brought the festival to a premature and decidedly shrill peak.  Even in the beating heart of Yolngu country, YouTube clearly has a firm grip on young hearts and minds. It’s hard to know what Yunupingu would have made of that. Probably a new video. His vision may not yet have come true but, out here at least, it’s never been more alive. 