Barbara Ellen, Observer columnist  So, it’s official – Lady Gaga will perform a tribute to David Bowie at the Grammy awards ceremony. Erm, why? Bowie delivered an album, Blackstar, on his deathbed – wouldn’t playing the harrowing Lazarus video be a more fitting way to pay homage to an artist whose urge to create and inspire remained undimmed to the very end?This isn’t a swipe at Gaga or at Kanye West – the slap-down to the latter’s (swiftly abandoned) plans to release a Bowie tribute album had a dismaying whiff of racism about it. Nor is it about being precious: not only was Bowie all about the “new”, he had his own career troughs. I once endured a fledging Tin Machine gig that felt akin to being trapped inside a haunted combine harvester.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie, pictured on the cover of his 1973 album Aladdin Sane. Photograph: Michael Ochs Archives/Getty ImagesHowever, Gaga, West, the Grammy organisers et al need to realise that some (rare, cherished) artists stand completely alone. So what if Gaga was influenced by Bowie – who wasn’t? Nor is it artistic snobbery to point out that aligning yourself to an esteemed artist’s work in this way is a presumptuous piggyback too far. Does everything have to be tweaked or “re-imagined” in the form of celebrity karaoke?Peter Robinson, editor of Popjustice You ask “who wasn’t?” regarding Bowie’s influence on the current landscape. It seems obvious: everyone’s influenced by Bowie, like everyone’s influenced by the Beatles, if only by musical osmosis. Then you look at the charts and you do wonder if it’s a stretch to find Bowie in Fetty Wap, Ed Sheeran or Selena Gomez. Any influence is certainly too subtle for an awards show audience.Fair enough, if you’re influenced by Bowie you wouldn’t necessarily look or sound like Bowie, just as a new punk couldn’t by definition be anything like punk, but at least with Lady Gaga you have a reasonably current act whose debt to Bowie is as prominent as the Ziggy flash she homaged eight years ago. This isn’t just about an artist dying – it feels as though an entire culture has been disembowelledBarbara Ellen I agree covers should be approached with caution and I don’t think we can underestimate the danger of the Brits wheeling out Paloma Faith and Mick Hucknall. But regarding your own suggestion of screening the Blackstar video, if you’re going to celebrate Bowie you can’t ignore the stone-cold bangers that could pack a wedding dancefloor in five seconds. Also, do you not think the Grammys whacking on a video, then going “Bowie! What a guy! Anyway, here’s Justin Bieber” might come across as slightly half-arsed? Perhaps there’s a third way. But what could it be?BE Good point about the wedding-stompers (who can resist?), but still I’d love them to play Blackstar – change the mood, rattle the audience. Isn’t that what Bowie was all about? With Gaga, I’d say it’s all a little too signposted. There’s also an irritating sense of “Bowie fans really need to hear from me right now”. No, they really don’t – park your ego, love. Mick Jagger, Brian Eno, Nile Rodgers – can you imagine the likes of them trundling on stage to do a Bowie cover? And they were his peers and collaborators.Only in music does a tribute comprise a pale facsimile of an artist’s work. When Alan Rickman is remembered at awards ceremonies, I can’t imagine actors turning up solemnly dressed as Professor Snape … though perhaps they should.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie in Lindsay Kemp’s 1970 mime video Pierrot in Turquoise or The Looking Glass Murders. Photograph: Scottish TelevisionAs you touched upon with your “third way”, with someone as multifaceted as Bowie, there seems to have been a missed opportunity to do something truly amazing and unexpected – say, his new music set to choreography by his early collaborator Lindsay Kemp, if he’s up for it, thus closing a meaningful circle? When you have such an immense and diverse stretch of creative influence, isn’t new original art the only worthwhile homage?PR Regarding your point about what Nile Rodgers might have to say about the whole thing, one would hope he’s keen, considering he’s the performance’s music director. He responded to naysayers on Facebook, as it happens, noting that negative remarks reminded him of “when Bowie decided to work with ‘the disco guy’”. We might not witness Brian Eno sidling on in a meat dress, but the stirring way in which Lady Gaga paid tribute to Alexander McQueen at the 2010 Brits suggests to me that we shouldn’t rule out something unexpected – even if to some the big surprise is just that, actually, the performance isn’t terrible.Bowie’s death prompted some of the best music journalism I’ve ever seen; it also prompted some of the worst; but I was moved by all those articles, with one or two notable exceptions, because they came from the heart. I expect the Grammys and Lady Gaga feel a duty to do this but I also feel that Gaga, at least, is doing it for the right reasons. Is there any guarantee that an interpretive dance routine would be any better, or that the people on stage would be more genuine in their actions? I don’t think we can underestimate the danger of the Brits wheeling out Paloma Faith and Mick HucknallPeter Robinson BE Ah, I’ve just been in the land of fitful Wi-Fi, so it’s heartening to realise that Rodgers is involved. Though are his and Gaga’s situations truly comparable? Let’s Dance was a huge musical departure for Bowie – is Gaga the shock choice for a Bowie tribute at the Grammys? Many would consider her the downright obvious choice – and one thing that Bowie wasn’t was obvious. I’m not vehemently anti covers as tributes per se (Bruce Springsteen played some Bowie songs live in the immediate aftermath of Bowie’s death). I just think that there’s been enough time to plan something more special.However, you’re right that Gaga should be given a chance. These are highly unusual circumstances because Bowie was unique. This isn’t just about an artist dying – it feels as though an entire culture has been disembowelled. Call me a saddo, but to my mind something like “interpretative dance” from Bowie’s old mime mucker twinned with his raw new material would have hit the spot nicely – also making Bowie the focus rather than the tribute artist. Then again, this is Bowie: whatever was done by whomever, I suppose there’d always be some Bowie fan whingeing…PR She’s not a shock choice, but she feels like a bold choice. She’ll put in more effort than anyone else on the current pop landscape, it’s impossible to predict what she’ll do, and looking on social media it’s great to see younger generations excited by the kind of tribute that might otherwise have passed them by.Anyway, it’s almost a win-win scenario. If it’s a nightmarish fiasco, we can reflect even further on how Bowie was so unique that even one of 21st-century pop’s most creative performers couldn’t touch him. If it’s great, we can be happy, then sad, then happy again. I’d hope for one of the two extremes, though – the worst tribute to Bowie’s legacy would come in the form of something average.