Netflix, the streaming giant turned original content studio, is to make a film based on the account of the Panama Papers written by two German journalists at the centre of the biggest data leak in history.The company has acquired exclusive rights to The Panama Papers: Breaking the Story of How the World’s Rich and Powerful Hide Their Money, the recently published book by Frederik Obermaier and Bastian Obermayer. The pair, who work for Munich-based Süddeutsche Zeitung, a subscription daily newspaper, were the only journalists to have direct access to the anonymous source who leaked the 11.5m documents from the Panama-based company Mossack Fonseca, one of the world’s biggest offshore law firms.Mossack Fonseca’s response to the Panama Papers The documents revealed how many of the super-rich employ legal, labyrinthine accounting systems to avoid taxation. Obermaier and Obermayer gave them to the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists – including those from the BBC and the Guardian, who analysed the data and reported its evidence. Such access to the central duo is what Netflix hopes will give their film the edge over other projects on the subject in the pipeline, including an adaptation by Steven Soderbergh of Secrecy World, the book by investigative reporter Jake Bernstein, one of the consortium.“This is probably the most important political story of recent times,” Netflix Chief Content Office Ted Sarandos told the Guardian, “so I imagine there will be many different stories and angles to come from it. We think ours will be the definitive take.”As well as a four-film deal with Adam Sandler, Netflix’s nascent movie studio is building a slate of prestige titles which, it hopes, will follow in the footsteps of Cary Fukunaga’s Beasts of No Nation – starring Idris Elba as an African warlord – in earning the company credibility and the film-makers awards recognition. Scheduled to compete this coming Oscars season is Bong Joon-ho’s Okja, a $50m fantasy with Tilda Swinton and Jake Gyllenhaal, as well as War Machine, an Afghanistan-set satire starring Swinton, Brad Pitt and Ben Kingsley. Steven Soderbergh in frame to direct Panama Papers film Healthy commercial and critical returns for The Big Short, about how the housing bubble burst in 2007, and Boston Globe paedophile exposé Spotlight, are testimony, says Sarandos, to increased audience appetite for films that help to explain current affairs.“People want very smart storytelling in this complicated world. We’ve become so accustomed to just breezing past headlines that I think people really appreciate having the opportunity to dig a little deeper.”The goal at Netflix, said Sarandos, is for “your project to be in the zeitgeist; the icing on the cake is if you motivate change”. Cinema’s primary responsibility, he continued, was “to get shareholder returns and to make films that are fun and entertaining. But I do think there is a role cinema must play in shining a light on some of the evil that men do. And I don’t think these things are mutually exclusive.”No director, writer or cast have yet been revealed, but Netflix’s Panama Papers film will be overseen by John Wells Productions, the production vehicle of writer, producer and director John Wells. Last year Wells directed Burnt, starring Bradley Cooper as a volatile chef; other recent films include Beach Boys biopic Love & Mercy and August: Osage County, based on Tracy Letts’s play. 