One of the first lessons of politics is never annoy your ghostwriter. Donald Trump is the latest to learn this, and is now sending a “cease and desist” to Tony Schwartz, the writer behind his 1987 memoir The Art of the Deal, who has denounced the book and called Trump a liar and a sociopath. Which makes Dave Shiflett, co-author of Trump’s The America We Deserve, look like a fan. He merely told Fox News last year that Trump has “no class”.Zoella’s ghostwriter Siobhan Curham speaks out over controversy Usually it is celebrities who are tripped up by using ghosts, such as when Victoria Beckham, the “author” of 2001’s Learning to Fly, admitted that she had never even read a book. In 2014, Siobhan Curham received online abuse after it was revealed that she helped write Girl Online, by the YouTube legend Zoella. In 2015, the publisher of YouTuber Jamie Curry’s They Let Me Write a Book! admitted that she wrote it with “help from an experienced writer”. David Lagercrantz, who controversially wrote the follow-up to Stieg Larsson’s Millennium trilogy, The Girl in the Spider’s Web, also wrote the Swedish footballer’s autobiography I Am Zlatan Ibrahimovic.The celebs are in good company. Hillary Clinton was criticised for not crediting Barbara Feinman as the co‑writer of her 1996 book It Takes a Village. Helmut Kohl attempted to sue his ghostwriter Heribert Schwan for using their tapes to write an unauthorised biography. Even the pope has been accused of using a (holy) ghostwriter.Writers who have spilled the beans about ghosting include Jennie Erdal (who wrote for the publisher Naim Attallah), Andrew O’Hagan, who discussed working on Julian Assange’s aborted memoir, and Andrew Crofts, who published Confessions of a Ghostwriter in 2014.One of the most famous ghostwriters is himself a fiction. The Ghost, a novel about a prime minister and his ghostwriter friend by Tony Blair’s former pal Robert Harris, was strictly imaginary, its author insisted. “I cannot deny that there are similarities [to Blair]”, he told the Guardian in 2007. “On the other hand I feel that I made this character up.” Unlike Trump, of course – you couldn’t make him up.