Declan McKenna – ParacetamolI was introduced to Declan’s music by a friend of the band last year and was immediately taken by his song Brazil. Here was a 15-year-old kid with the ability to write poignant lyrics about the misappropriation of wealth in that country around the time of the World Cup. I connected with the spirit of the song. Paracetamol is a song made of the same substance, but has a vulnerability to it reminiscent of the great songs Daniel Johnston used to sing into a tape recorder in his parents’ basement. We took Declan out to eat pizza in London and when he turned up dressed like the Karate Kid we immediately decided he had to open for us on our tour.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Paracetamol by Declan McKennaScreaming Peaches – Sad KidSomeone first played me this song on a broken iPhone in the back of an Uber and I immediately liked the way they spelled out their lyrics (who doesn’t like spelled out lyrics?), but then all of a sudden someone else started listening to something completely different on their phone in the front of the car and I couldn’t tell what was being spelled out anymore and got very confused. When I arrived home I looked them up and realised I’d inadvertently been a fan for longer than I thought under their previous moniker, MOVIE. If I wasn’t so lazy I would re-organise my record collection and find a nice slot for them between something like The Chap and Darts of Pleasure-era Franz Ferdinand. I’m not sure anyone really knows what pop music is or isn’t anymore, but this song has a cheeky riff and is catchy as hell.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Sad Kid by Screaming PeachesGaz Coombes – Needle’s EyeI can remember Supergrass’s first album coming out like it was yesterday, their otherworldly faces staring down at me from the covers of magazines in French supermarkets on summer holidays. And what a live force they were, too, like the best bits of every 60s band – the instruments seemingly racing each other to the finishing line of each song. We had the privilege of getting to know Gaz on the festival circuit while touring our last album Radlands and we became huge fans of his second solo release, Matador, when it came out. Detroit was one of, if not the, best song of last year but I’m going to pick another from the same record. With a backbone provided by a morse-code bassline and these huge emotive lyrics, Needle’s Eye feels equally honest and urgent – like the kind of song he needed to live before he could write it.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Needle’s Eye by Gaz CoombesDaughter – Doing the Right ThingLong car journeys have always been synonymous with music for me, and I can vividly remember my dad playing me Lou Reed’s Satelite of Love en route to the airport when I was a kid. I was welling up, sad to be leaving him and had never flown alone before when he put this song on, as if showing me that music was able to articulate something beyond words. Leaving something behind, watching the past disappear in the rear view mirror. I soon became addicted to that feeling. I spend a lot of time driving around London and once in a while a song will come on the radio that catches you off guard and somehow perfectly crystallises a place and moment in time. I had one of those with this song, driving to visit an elderly relative one frosty winter morning last year. The lyrics painted a picture of something very familiar to me at that time, loosing someone close to you to something you don’t understand. Mesmerising.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Daughter’s Doing the Right ThingDavid Gilmour - There’s No Way Out Of HereGrowing up, my parents’ friends had a son who was about 10 years older than me and epitomised everything I wanted to be when I grew up into a teenager. His room smelled like a heady mix of CK one and fags, he had one of those giant Swatch watches on his wall – and the Turin Shroud to any nine-year-old in the 90s: a black Fender Stratocaster. As it also turned out, after some digging around in his cupboards when he was away one weekend, he also had a great CD collection (all the Oasis singles, all the Shine compilations etc). I’ve only ever stolen once in my life, and I will admit here and now that his copy of A Collection of Great Dance Songs by Pink Floyd was that one time (sorry, mate, but actually it changed my life forever, so thank you). Pink Floyd’s shores have been colonised to the point of exhaustion, but Dave Gilmour’s first solo album was one stone I’d never thought to turn over. It became something of an anthem for us during the recording of our new album Curve of the Earth, and most importantly, it was written at his absolute peak, when he looked like a hot girl. So much so, in fact, that the world neglected to notice that he wore the same Guinness Stout T-shirt for the entirety of the Dark Side of the Moon tour. Baller.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to There’s No Way Out of Here by David Gilmour