In its increasingly desperate bid to revive its fortunes, Marks & Spencer has introduced some radical ideas in recent times – there was the pre-chopped avocado, then the celebrity designers. Now, it’s getting rid of the music in its stores. In a few weeks’ time, the tills will no longer be alive with the sound of muzak – good news if you view piped tunes as noise pollution of the worst kind, but the silence may give some of M&S’s sadder stores a graveyard air. It was, says a spokesperson, “the result of extensive research and feedback from our customers and colleagues”.But silence may not prove golden. Professor Adrian North, head of the school of psychology at Curtin University in Perth, Australia, and an expert on the psychology of music, says he disagrees with the move. “The research shows that music can have a double-digit impact on sales,” he says, “so turning off that source of revenue is a poor decision.”Music in shops, he says, “can influence the speed at which customers shop, the amount they browse, the amount they spend, the amount they are prepared to spend, the products they choose, the parts of the premises they visit and the amount of time they think they have spent on the premises”. Different types of music have different effects, too. “Want customers to spend more money? Play classical music. Want them to shop more slowly and browse more? Play slow music. Want to get customers to go upstairs? Play music they like on the stairwell.”Behavioural scientist Patrick Fagan agrees. “There are three main effects,” he says of music in stores. “One is a volume and tempo effect – slow music can make people stay longer in the store. Music can put people in a better mood, which makes them spend more. Third, there is the priming effect – music can put certain ideas in people’s heads. If you play Christmas music, people will buy more Christmas products. There is a study that shows if you play classical music, rather than Top 40 music, people spend more money on wine.”Of course, not everyone likes the presence of music in stores. One study, commissioned by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People (now called Action on Hearing Loss), found that 86% of people with hearing difficulties found piped music annoying and frustrating, and one-third of people in general hated background music.“A great deal of our work involves switching music off,” says Julian Treasure, chairman of the Sound Agency, which designs sound for retailers, workplaces and brands. “Retailers don’t think about why they have music. There are a number of issues. It can be very powerful in the right place, where it is played appropriately. Music is made to be listened to, so you immediately have an issue where you’re playing it in the background like wallpaper. Music doesn’t want to behave like that.”In fashion stores, loud music can be helpful – it is exciting, vibrant and repels anyone over the age of 23. But playing music in a store like M&S, which is designed to have a broad customer base, is problematic. You wouldn’t want to play death metal in M&S, he says, “so you end up with bland, middle-of-the-road pop and lounge music. It’s very generic, very mindless.” Music, particularly chart music, also carries strong associations, and a song may have negative associations for as many people as positive ones.Furthermore, says Treasure, endless music is fatiguing if it’s deployed mindlessly. He recalls doing an audit of one busy high street several years ago; the only store that wasn’t playing music was M&S (it only introduced it in 2006). “Suddenly, there was a bit of peace. You felt your whole body slow down and you thought, thank goodness.”