Over a career spanning more than 40 years as a guitarist and songwriter, Deniz Tek has been remarkably consistent, though not necessarily prolific. Tek, who is best known for his work with the Australian proto-punk band Radio Birdman, averages a studio album or EP release every two to three years, and has often gone several years between releases. However, he has a few other strings to his bow. By the time Radio Birdman released their scorching debut EP Burn My Eye in 1976, Tek was already studying medicine. He became a flight surgeon with the US navy, where he also trained as a fighter pilot, and now divides his time between rock’n’roll and working as a trauma surgeon in in Australia and Hawaii. Clearly, he’s not one of those musicians who’s at a loss when they haven’t got a gig lined up.Tek was born and grew up in the US, in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where he would sneak into gigs by the MC5 and the Stooges, who proved to be among his primary influences. When his father, an engineering professor, was offered a year’s secondment at the University of New South Wales in Sydney in 1967, the family temporarily relocated to Australia. After graduating from high school in the US, Tek wanted to pursue his own degree in medicine and he decided to study in Sydney. By the time he had seen the Rolling Stones on their 1972 Australian tour – and sold a vintage National guitar to Keith Richards, no less – it was clear that music was going to be as much a part of his life as his curative vocation.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest While Tek had a direct connection to the Detroit sound that had developed in his home state, Radio Birdman evolved more or less in isolation in Sydney; something that Tek believes benefited the band. Although that had its downsides – Birdman were ignored and even disdained by the music industry in Australia, and had to book their own venues to play concerts – it made them even more committed to their unique brand of high-energy rock’n’roll. When I was growing up in Australia, too young to have seen Birdman in their 1976-78 prime, the band were almost mythical. It was a code among music freaks: you may have known the Ramones and the Clash and even the Saints, but unless you knew of Birdman you were a no-mark. Their instantly recognisable logo was seen on cars, guitars, school lockers and surfboards in every town on the east coast – surf music was the thing that gave Birdman their identity above and beyond the Detroit sound.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Birdman dissolved acrimoniously in 1978, and despite a few appearances by key members in several post-Birdman bands, it wasn’t until Tek toured Australia in 1992 that the first post-Birdman generation got to see some of their songs live (hundreds of other bands playing earnest cover versions notwithstanding). The fact that Birdman’s other guitarist, Chris Masuak, and their keyboardist, Pip Hoyle, were on board for Tek’s solo tour only added to the expectation. Tek had recently retired from the US military, but he was understandably proud of his accomplishments. The solo album that formed the basis of the 1992 tour was called Take It to the Vertical, and featured a cover image of Tek in the cockpit of an F4 Phantom. That was a revelation in itself, as few Birdman fans at the time had any idea he had another career outside music. Then it turned out he was also an emergency surgeon based in Billings, Montana. For anyone who read the music press, it was obvious he was a fairly remarkable individual. But more than anything else, the concerts proved that Tek’s music and his guitar playing had lost none of their power. Since then, Radio Birdman have reformed several times, and their reputation has not diminished.Tek still plays with complete commitment – as he once put it, when he’s on the road he’s “hard-wired to the go switch”. In 2014, at the age of 62, playing solo and Radio Birdman material in a power trio in Europe, he did 29 concerts in 28 days across eight countries. It looks as if 2016 is turning into another busy year for him: Radio Birdman are touring Australia in June, followed by a three-week European tour, and in September, Tek is releasing his sixth solo album. He’s not one for standing still – and long may that continue.