By the end of the year, Sainsbury's will become the first supermarket to send all its food waste for anaerobic digestion (AD) – the process that decomposes food waste to release biogas which can then be used to produce electricity. Most of the other supermarkets are not that far behind. In 2009 Asda was already sending 25,000 tonnes of food waste for AD and Waitrose aims to achieve zero waste to landfill by 2013.This is good news for anyone worried by the critical problem of landfill in this country. Food waste sent to landfill rots, releasing methane which is 21 times worse for global warming than carbon dioxide. Under the EU landfill directive, Britain is obliged to reduce the amount of biodegradable waste going to landfill to 50% of 1995 levels by 2013. Whereas most other EU member states met their targets years ahead of schedule, the National Audit Office has warned that Britain is at risk of failing to meet its target, which would result in crippling fines, passed on to local councils, of up to £1m a day. There isn't a borough in the country that could withstand such a blow.That is why the government has been steadily increasing landfill tax to the present level of £56 per tonne, meaning that waste producers are willing to pay for alternative disposal routes. Tens of millions of pounds have been dished out to help build more AD plants and extra assistance comes from the renewable obligation scheme, under which, for every unit of electricity they produce, plants receive twice as much extra money as other sources of renewable energy. And now the government is introducing the renewable heat incentive, which will encourage more AD plants to sell the heat they generate when biogas is burned to produce electricity.It's a good thing to support this budding industry and to impose taxes that reflect the real environmental cost of landfill. However, the technophilic hype should not lead us to believe that AD solves two problems in one – the desperate need for more renewable energy, and the problem of food waste. Neil Sachdev, Sainsbury's property director, says that their AD initiative "means our food waste is being put to the best possible use." However, there are still better things to do with unsold food than recycle it into gas.Sending food waste into an AD plant only recovers a fraction of the energy that went into growing the food in the first place. Recycling tomatoes in this way, for example, generates less than 1% of the energy used to produce the crop. By contrast, according to calculations I first published in my book, Waste: Uncovering the Global Food Scandal, it's up to 500 times better for the environment to divert food waste to pigs rather than sending it to AD.Fattening livestock on food waste would reduce the need to feed them with the 40m tonnes of soya imported into Europe each year from South America where its cultivation contributes to deforestation, soil erosion, water depletion and global warming. Pigs eat our waste, we eat pigs: it's a virtuous circle. That's why, 6,000 years ago, humans domesticated pigs in the first place. In other parts of the world, notably South Korea and Japan, governments and companies have recognised the value of this age-old practice and have developed state-of-the-art facilities to do so.Thanks to a silly EU law, it is currently illegal to feed catering or domestic food waste to pigs, even if it has been sterilised. However, supermarkets are still allowed to send their bread, dairy, fruit and vegetable waste for livestock feed. Some of them have begun to do this again, pleased to discover that they can sell their old food to farmers for around £20 a tonne, instead of paying an AD plant £60 or more. During meetings with Downing Street and with Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) officials over the past few months, I have been pleased to learn that the government is at last becoming interested in resuscitating this ancient but neglected practice.Whereas AD is struggling to provide enough capacity to recycle all the food waste we produce, there is already a network of companies that collect stale food from supermarkets and feed it to our less fussy porcine brethren. Paul Goddard, the director of UKFarm Feeds, based in Yorkshire, came down to the House of Lords last week for the launch of our new campaign to reduce waste in the food industry. He brought with him a hundred sausages produced by feeding supermarket waste to his herd of wild-boar.Judging from the speed with which they disappeared down the throats of the assembled MPs, lords, supermarket representatives, a bishop and a Defra minister – they were appetising enough. And yet, Goddard complained that one retail chain has recently been seduced by the attraction of dumping all its waste rather than keeping aside stuff that he can feed to his pigs. In Goddard's opinion, "stupid people" are to blame for this counterintuitive, environmentally damaging decision.• Tristram Stuart is an author and one of the organisers of Feeding the 5,000, a free lunch using fresh produce rejected by supermarkets that takes place in Trafalgar Square on Friday