Every year, at the end of the Emmys telecast, I think about how shabby they are, how the same shows and actors always get the same awards, how the host was awful and how the show seemed longer than Wagner’s Ring Cycle.Game of Thrones breaks Emmy record and wins best drama for second year Not this time. This year’s Emmys were actually pretty great. The show moved briskly, the little bits of comedy provided by the presenters were sunny enough and Jimmy Kimmel did a great job as the host, giving his barbs just enough of a bitter twist to make them sting but with enough of a smile that no one seemed to mind. Sure, he could have skipped his PB&J bit (which seemed like a rip-off of Ellen’s pizza delivery at the Oscars) but otherwise it was solid hosting. But best of all, all the awards went to very deserving talents. Did Blackish or Master of None have a better season than Veep? I would say so, but Veep is also an incredibly funny show and will go down as one of the greats. Was The Americans’ killer fourth season or Mr Robot’s fantastic first season better than Game of Thrones’ shaky sixth outing? For certain, but the last two episodes of this season were some of the best television I’ve ever seen and Game of Thrones deserves to be honored for those alone.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Maisie Williams, Emilia Clarke, Sophie Turner and Kit Harrington of HBO’s Game of Thrones pose backstage with their award for oustanding drama series. Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/ReutersOther than best writing in a drama, which went ot Game of Thrones, now the most-winning program in Emmy’s history, I can’t think of one mistake the Academy made. Battle of the Bastards, the epic penultimate episode of the season deserved to win for best director in a drama, which it did, but the script wasn’t incredibly strong. It was mostly just telling which bits of army should be winning at any given moment. The triumph of that episode was in the production and the performances, not the writing. But, hey there are worse crimes on earth, like Jeff Daniels’ win for The Newsroom. These awards were generally so well-deserved it’s almost as though the Academy looked at TV fanatics’ Twitter feeds to see who they should vote for because they were afraid of the internet trolling them for another year. For Orphan Black’s first two seasons, Twitter went into an outrage on Emmy nomination day for snubbing Tatiana Maslany, who plays a whole host of different characters on the sci-fi drama. Last year she got nominated and this year she won (for one of the show’s weaker seasons). It’s like the TV gods are actually listening, and how can we hate them when they gave Tatiana Maslany the gold?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rami Malek: the internet’s boyfriend. Photograph: Jim Smeal/BEI/ShutterstockThe same goes for Rami Malek, sometimes called the internet’s boyfriend, who got a trophy or Mr Robot, where he gives one of the twistiest and most raw performances around. I’m sure everyone on the internet felt like Amanda Peet , all warm and fuzzy from constantly being acknowledged.Heck, even Louis Anderson, every television critic’s favorite man who plays a woman (sorry Jeffrey Tambor, they like you too) won. This wasn’t the usual Emmys, where they give out accolades to safe bets like Modern Family and Downton Abbey (except for perennial no-show Maggie Smith), but one that was willing to push the envelope and search out the programs deserving our attention.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Game of Thrones and People v OJ Simpson win big at 2016 Emmy Awards – highlightsSure, Veep won for the second year in a row and Julia Louis-Dreyfus got another trophy to throw onto her ever increasing pile, but this year Kate McKinnon also defeated Allison Janney for best supporting actress in a comedy. Aziz Ansari and Alan Yang won for best writing for a comedy. Two out of the four directors who won were women. Key & Peele won best variety sketch program for its final season and Last Week Tonight with John Oliver took best variety talk program for the first time. These are all great and deserving first-time winners.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Yang and Aziz Ansari pose backstage with their awards for outstanding writing for a comedy series for Master Of None. Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/ReutersIn the limited series category, this was the year of The People v OJ Simpson. It usually annoys me when one show runs a whole category (even Game of Thrones) but this series, that won three out of four acting categories, directing, writing and best limited series honestly deserved it. One of the most searing and insightful dramas to come along in quite some time, it was not only a popular hit, but honestly reopened the conversation about what this historic case has to say about race, gender, politics and celebrity in modern America. It made us re-examine how we treated Marcia Clark and other key figures in the trial and showed us how the problems inherent in that miscarriage of justice are still throbbing in America today like a headache that refuses to go away. Jeffrey Tambor calls on industry to hire more trans actors in Emmys speech OJ aside, the number of different programs that won significant awards tonight and the undeniable quality of all of them shows just how vibrant the medium of television is right now. The Emmys really celebrated the diversity of our culture, not only by awarding trophies to people of all races, sexualities and backgrounds but also celebrating everything from political satire to sci-fi soap operas, fragmented rom-coms to comedies that are hardly even funny (in a good way), and news programs masquerading as comedy shows to a fantasy with freaking dragons. For the first time in a long time the Emmys didn’t suck. It seems like the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences has finally caught up to television itself.