In an admittedly placid yuletide period, there could only be one winner of the award for top Christmas news story. This was the revelation that several rare species of underwater creatures had been discovered in the seas around Orkney following a series of marine expeditions in 2011. Not unnaturally, the one that chimed most with our imaginations was something that possessed neither a brain nor a face.This poor beastie is an amphioxus, though a more apposite appellation might have been "anxious". There is some spin afoot here. We are told that this fish is "elusive". Such a description, though, is misleading. It suggests that marine scientists everywhere have been looking for a brainless and faceless fish for years, a concept that is, quite palpably, untrue. Why, there already exists, on the opposition benches of the Scottish Parliament, a species that has half a brain and two faces. It is an inert creature and is also known by its lounge name "the Scottish Lib Dems".Of the other "elusive" species, the most eyecatching were fan mussels measuring up to 18 inches that possess golden hair so fine it can trap a grain of sand. This is called a clabbydhhu, which is Gaelic for "enormous black mouth". We are assured that they stabilise mobile seabeds and provide a critical ecosystem for other species, something that had previously been scandalously neglected and that is close to the hearts of most Scottish voters. This, though, is mere Scottish government sophistry for justifying the tens of thousands of pounds of public money being spent on such meaningless marine peregrinations.At least we now know about the existence of such an esoteric word as "clabbydhhu" which provides us with a perfect description of Scotland's first minister when he is in full cry. Already an embossed envelope bearing the seal of the first minister has been dispatched to Sir David Attenborough. "Dear Sir David, we'd be most grateful if you and the Frozen Planet crew could do a wee series about the seas around the Western Isles. These waters are pure teeming with rare and interesting species that have cognitive behaviour patterns and fight with each other a lot for survival. They have lots of colours and will look brilliant with those underwater cameras. We would put you up in a five-star golf resort for as long as you liked and we'll take care of the bar tab."Scots have already been tasked with helping to turn the nation into the most renewable and carbon-friendly country on the planet. Using a complex mathematical formula that could also be described as "elusive", we are told that Scotland will be fired completely by renewable energy at an indeterminate point in the second half of this century.Are we now witnessing a campaign to convince the world that Scotland is a Xanadu of wonderful and spectacular species and predatory beasties? Already, £7m of public money has been committed to the rent and upkeep of two giant pandas which, thus far, have done nothing but loll around all day eating expensive, imported bamboo chow meins.Sir David must resist any overtures to film his next series in Scotland. Instead, we need to get the BBC's Robert Peston to investigate how much it is costing to turn Scotland into the western hemisphere's first jungle.