The first person perspective of a boy at an American middle school, who keeps a journal about his brothers Rodrick and Manny, video games, schoolwork and chores. He can be lazy, selfish and dishonest, but often shows moments of being kind and caring.   Gregory Heffley from Jeff Kinney's A Diary of A Wimpy Kid    Charlie Bucket from Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory    Tom from Liz Pichon's Tom Gates series    Bradley Chalkers from Louis Sachar's There's A Boy in the Girls' Bathroom A girl who comes from a poor coal-mining district in the dystopian nation of Panem. She is skilled in her knowledge of hunting and archery, and takes the place of her younger sister in a televised fight to the death competition.   Dorothy from L. Frank Baum's The Wonderful Wizard of Oz    Katniss Everdeen from Suzanne Collins' The Hunger Games    Liesel Meminger from Marcus Zusak's The Book Thief    Sephy Hadley from Malorie Blackman’s Noughts and Crosses series A demigod, the son of a mortal and the Greek god Poseidon. His powers include controlling water and making hurricanes, and he can read Ancient Greek. He becomes an accomplished sword-fighter, and works well as a leader.   Prince Caspian from C.S Lewis' The Chronicles of Narnia    Pooh from A.A. Milne's Winnie-the-Pooh    Percy Jackson from Rick Riordan's Percy Jackson and the Olympians series    Eragon from Christopher Paollini’s Eragon She is the oldest of three siblings, and a young inventor who ties her hair up with a ribbon when she has a good idea. She is very strong-willed, and is set to inherit a large fortune when she reaches eighteen.   Alice from Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland    Violet Baudelaire from Lemony Snickett's A Series of Unfortunate Events    Matilda from Roald Dahl's Matilda    Susan from Jerry Spinelli’s Stargirl A barn spider who lives on lives on a web overlooking a piglet's enclosure on a farm. She weaves words into her web, in an attempt to try and save the piglet, Wilbur, from slaughter.   Aragog from J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter series    The Spider from Eric Carle’s The Very Busy Spider    The Spider from Mary Ann Hoberman’s Eensy Weensy Spider    Charlotte from E.B. White's Charlotte's Web Two identical twins who couldn't be more different; one is loud, outgoing and wild, and the other is shy, quiet and kind. Each one takes it in turn to narrate the story, telling their lives in an accounts book.   Ruby and Garnet from Jacqueline Wilson's Double Act    Fred and Ron Weasley from J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series    Quentin and Margo from John Green's Paper Towns    Lisa and Lottie from Erich Kastner’s The Parent Trap A vampire with the physical body of a seventeen-year-old, but who is actually over 100 years old. His skin is very pale and sparkles in the sunlight, and possess superhuman stamina, senses, mentality and agility.   Tobias Eaton from Veronica Roth's Divergent series    Dimitri Belikov from Richelle Mead’s Vampire Academy    Edward Cullen from Stephanie Meyers' Twilight series    Dracula from Bram Stoker’s Dracula An ordinary boy-mad teenage girl, who lives with her mum, dad, sister Libby and crazy cat. Telling her story through her diary, this character desperately fancies the "Sex-God" Robbie, and tries to win him over along with the help of her close group of friends also known as 'the Ace Gang'.   Georgia Nicolson from Louise Rennison's Confessions of Georgia Nicolson series    Mia from Meg Cabot's The Princess Diaries    Rae from Rae Earl’s My Mad Fat Diary    Cath from Rainbow Rowell’s Fangirl A talking big cat, who is wise, compassionate and has magical authority. Although he is gentle and has a loving nature, he is very strong and capable of being frightening. He serves as a guardian to the children who visit his kingdom.   Cowardly Lion in L. Frank Baum's The Wonderful Wizard of Oz    Aslan from C.S. Lewis' The Chronicles of Narnia    Richard Parker from Yann Martel's Life of Pi    Bagheera from Rudyard Kipling’s The Jungle Book A redheaded pure-blood wizard, the sixth son of Arthur and Molly. He attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and was sorted into Gryffindor house.   Ron Weasley from J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series    Percy Weasley from J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series    George Weasley from J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series    Fred Weasley from J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series You got…Bravo - you’re the star of the show! Consider yourself thoroughly lionized!‘All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players’ – you’ve nearly matched our reports to roles, try again and the answers might just roll over for you…‘All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players’ – you’ve nearly matched our reports to roles, try again and the answers might just roll over for you…‘All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players’ – you’ve nearly matched our reports to roles, try again and the answers might just roll over for you…These characters seem more like ciphers than people to you – why not step up to the mark and have another go!These characters seem more like ciphers than people to you – why not step up to the mark and have another go!These characters seem more like ciphers than people to you – why not step up to the mark and have another go!These characters seem more like ciphers than people to you – why not step up to the mark and have another go!These characters seem more like ciphers than people to you – why not step up to the mark and have another go!These characters seem more like ciphers than people to you – why not step up to the mark and have another go!These characters seem more like ciphers than people to you – why not step up to the mark and have another go!Challenge your friendsSubmit answers