Adam Hargreaves remembers exactly when his Dad, Roger, first created the Mr Men. Then seven years old, the curious young boy asked the kind of question young boys often ask: “Daddy, what does a tickle look like?” So Roger started sketching, perhaps not realising that he was founding a globe-spanning, £28m empire that would be going strong decades later. That first book, Mr Tickle, was published in 1971. “I think he started to realise he was on to something,” chuckles Hargreaves Jr.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Tom Baker incarnation of Doctor Who, Mr Men-ised. Photograph: Jennifer DeeForty five years later, Adam is still entrenched in the world he inadvertently caused to be created. He assumed the role of bringing Mr Men and Little Misses into being after his father’s death in 1988, creating new characters such as Little Miss Princess and Mr Cool, while taking the old favourites on further adventures into history and beyond. Now, he’s taking his dad’s creation to even more fantastical places, with the arrival of a new range of Doctor Who Mr Men books. Each Doctor gets his own adventure, Mr Men-ised.Appropriately, for a series in which very little happens in a linear temporal order, the first four books, released this week, are: Dr First, Dr Fourth, Dr Eleventh and Dr Twelfth. Drs Second, Seventh, Eighth and Ninth will follow in August.“The world of Doctor Who can be very complicated,” says Hargreaves, “so I was very conscious of how to make them work for pre-school children, while capturing the daft, silly sense of humour that Mr Men is all about. To inject some of the Mr Men storytelling style of my dad.”That’s important: for all the retro appeal, there’s no knowing irony. This Dr Who range has the same purpose as the very first Mr Men titles: to explain complex human emotions and morals to very young children through colourful avatars and adorable whimsy. Not that there’s nothing in the books for fans of the TV Doctor, either. Hargreaves admits to not having watched the show for “a very long time” before being approached about a book series, and confesses to having spent “an awful lot of time Googling”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Clearly he’s done his homework. Daleks, Cybermen, Cybermats, Weeping Angels and Silurians are all recreated in lovably chunky form. In Dr Twelfth (that’ll be Capaldi), the running joke as the Doctor chases Missy across time on an epic jewel robbery is her exasperation at his lack of interest in being walked through every detail of her “dastardly crime” – the Master/Missy character has always loved showing off the latest elaborate plan to enslave the universe. It’s that kind of gentle absurdity that makes the two universes surprisingly suitable bedfellows. “We did wonder, because you’ve got to keep two very different fandoms happy,” says Hargreaves.He had the chance to get up close and personal with some of the more enthusiastic elements of Who fandom when the first books were launched in Cardiff at the weekend. For the uninitiated, that could make for an intimidating day out. Indeed, at such events, cosplay is more common than non-cosplay. “I spent a long time signing books,” he chuckles, “so I think they liked it.”