Sherlock, the hit BBC series starring Benedict Cumberbatch and known for its central male relationship, will be directed by a woman for the first time in the forthcoming season four.Rachel Talalay, who has directed Doctor Who, The Flash and The Wind In The Willows in a 25-year career in film and television, is to direct the first of the three feature-length episodes for BBC1.Filming for the three new episodes has begun and features Sherlock Holmes, played by Cumberbatch, back in the UK, with Doctor Watson, played by Martin Freeman, and his wife Mary preparing to become parents.Sherlock: The Abominable Bride cinema sales top £21m worldwide The new series has been hotly anticipated following the growing success of the drama. Sherlock: The Abominable Bride, which aired on New Year’s Day this year, was the most-watched programme over the festive season, with 11.6 million viewers.In a statement, Cumberbatch said: “I can’t wait for everyone to see season four. But you will have to wait … though not for long ... And it will be worth it.”Talalay has enjoyed an eclectic career with credits including Tank Girl, Freddy’s Dead (Nightmare on Elm Street 6) and more than 75 hours of television in the US, UK and Canada from Ally McBeal to Without a Trace and Touching Evil. She has also produced films including Hairspray, Cry-Baby, Nightmare on Elm Street (parts three and four) and The Borrowers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Gatiss marks the start of shooting on Sherlock season four. Photograph: BBCSherlock, produced by Hartswood Films, is written and created by Steven Moffat and Mark Gatiss, and inspired by the works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.The BBC released a photo on Wednesday of Gatiss holding a clapperboard for the first episode featuring Talalay’s name. Moffat and Gatiss said: “Sherlock series four – here we go again! Whatever else we do, wherever we all go, all roads lead back to Baker Street – and it always feels like coming home. Ghosts of the past are rising in the lives of Sherlock Holmes and John Watson bringing adventure, romance and terror in their wake. This is the story we’ve been telling from the beginning. A story about to reach its climax ...”