Mulder and Scully meet the were-monster in this week’s instalment of Fox’s six-episode resuscitation of the X-Files, titled, helpfully, Mulder and Scully Meet the Were-Monster. And after a frankly terrible first instalment and a second outing that wavered between pretty fun and pretty bad, the third episode is not just a welcome improvement but among the best single hours in the entire series, thanks in large part to some very clever writing and directing from Darin Morgan (who wrote my favorite single X-Files episode, Clyde Bruckman’s Final Repose) and a hilarious turn from Rhys Darby as Guy Mann.Yes, Guy Mann.What would you do if you were a werewolf?We open on a couple enjoying the open air in a picturesque rural Oregon forest in the time-honored way, namely by huffing paper bags of gold paint (props to the creative team for that detail). Hey, the woman asks the man, does the beautiful full moon ever make you think there’s more to life than getting high all the time? No, he replies, it makes me want to be a werewolf.“What would you do if you were a werewolf?” she asks, curious. “Get high all the time.”And that’s when they stumble across the monster – a lizard-critter in prosthetics and a rubber suit of the Creature From the Black Lagoon variety. He attacks, or appears to attack, an animal control officer, and then there’s a lot of shouting.“Dude, are you OK?” asks Gold Paint Guy.The animal control dude, Pasha (Silicon Valley’s reliably great Kumail Nanjiani), seems to be okay. “Dude, are you OK?” asks Gold Paint Lady. She, unfortunately, is talking to a different dude, who is not OK. And then a whole pile of other dudes, each of them less OK than the last.Meanwhile, back at the FBI, Mulder is flinging pencils point-first into an “I Want to Believe” poster of the kind he used to love so much (he also used to love sticking pencils in drop-tile ceilings, a pastime of cubicle workers everywhere, but those were simpler times, when he was the boyish fellow from the opening credits). The poster, it turns out, is Scully’s, and she’s concerned, first teasingly, then with more sincerity, that Mulder will be crushed under the weight of his ennui.“Since we’ve been away, much of the unexplained has been explained,” he gripes, observing that the Weekly World Newsier aspects of American life have largely vanished with the advent of the internet. (I was complaining about this last week, possibly too much, as some of you observed. At any rate, it’s a relief to hear it come out of Mulder’s mouth.) He longs for the days when he was like a young Charles Fort; now he’s like an old Charles Fort, who has figured out he’s wasted his life.‘This is how I like my Mulder’Scully is having none of this. She gets to mess with Mulder a little here and it’s a nice reminder that Anderson is funnier than she sometimes has the opportunity to be; when she presents Mulder with a new case that may restore his faith in the literally incredible, the pair go running after reports of a strange creature in Shawan, Oregon, and enlist Pasha to help them catch it. Pasha and Mulder, hot on the lizard’s trail, chase the monster into a porta-potty but are embarrassed to find that the toilet’s only occupant is an eccentric New Zealander. Thus thrown off the scent, they fall back and regroup at a creepy hotel, which begins to give Mulder some of his old enthusiasm. Morgan subtly parodies Mulder’s big-pharma-plus-monsters-plus-whatever monologue from episode one; in the lighthearted version, Scully keeps on failing to get a word in edgewise as Mulder goes on and on.“Yeah, this is how I like my Mulder,” she says with a smile.“So you agree with me?” he asks, elated.“No!” says Scully. “You’re batcrap crazy!”The show has several sweet moments but perhaps the saddest is something Mulder tosses off early in the episode, during his brief Doubting Thomas phase. Monsters, he says, are much more interesting than serial killers, who are all pretty much the same creepy weirdo with very slightly different motivations. “You’ve seen one serial killer,” he says, “you’ve seen them all.” It’s kind of nice to be able to believe in monsters.And Mulder bemoans his middle age here, as well! Morgan has a lot of daring character beats in this one but that may be the most controversial – how dare he force us to think of our childhood heroes as ageing and tired?Guy MannThe aforementioned New Zealander is Darby as Guy Mann, who, of course, is neither a guy nor a man, not really. He turns into a lizard being whenever the moon comes out; or, as Guy would have it, he is more properly a lizard being and was minding his own business when a rampaging human bit him, and now he wakes up each morning and turns into a guy who works at a cellphone store and thinks Scully is hot. Oh, the humanity, in every sense.It’s hard to overstate how good Darby is in this role (and how well Duchovny plays the straight man); he narrates his whole transformation and the curse of being human and wanting the things humans want instead of the things lizards want (“My craze wouldn’t be satiated until I found a job!”), and there’s a priceless bit when Mulder tries to delicately explain transgender identity to him and Guy completely misunderstands.He also goes off the rails sometimes and tells Mulder things that are absolutely untrue; witness an encounter with Scully that sounds like steamy fanfiction written by a 16-year-old boy, played with a totally straight face in flashback by Anderson. (Mulder: “That did not happen.”) Darby’s natural inclination as an actor is toward general haplessness, which works surprisingly well on a lizard.Touchingly, the whole scene (minus the flashbacks) is staged in a graveyard, where one of the graves – the one Mulder is visiting – is that of Kim Manners, the longtime X-Files producer who died in 2009.It ends when the sun sets, and Guy returns to his preferred state as a humanoid horned toad and reveals to Mulder that he really only comes out every 10,000 years or so and now it’s time to head back to bed in the hope of sleeping off his distressing, unpleasant were-humanism.Back to crazyThe encounter, of course, reinvigorates Mulder’s belief in the unbelievable, and it makes Scully happy, too. She hates to disappoint Mulder, but the murders were not, in fact, lizard related.Given how laid-back Guy is, it doesn’t make sense for him to have been the killer, and sure enough, it turns out that the true villain was Pasha, who demands a fair hearing for his senseless crimes and, delightfully, doesn’t get one. “It all started when I was a child, this uncontrollable urge to torture small animals,” he says. “As I got older – ”The agents roll their eyes, tell him to shut up, and drag him away.“I have a whole speech prepared!” he whines as he’s led off in cuffs. In hindsight, this is my favorite moment of the episode; every freak from Elliot Rodger to Dylann Roof has some sort of excuse for taking away the lives of people who wouldn’t have been able, and will never have the opportunity, to pick them out of a police lineup. Let the killers stay silent.And let us believe between 8 and 9pm that things could be less simple than that. “I want to believe,” Mulder tells Guy as the latter prepares to creep off into the forest. Yeah, man. Me too.