There must be some kind of way out of here ...As you would hope from anything with Mick Jagger’s fingerprints on it, there’s little place for nuance in rock’n’roll. As we begin HBO’s new period epic with a flash-forward, our haggard anti-hero, record exec Richie Finestra (Bobby Cannavale), sits broken, drinking in his car and scoring an eight ball of cocaine from a couple of street thugs. Aroused by the smell of youth and sweat, he heads into a club and has an epiphany watching the New York Dolls perform Personality Crisis. The epiphany is such that Richie feels as though the building may collapse around him.One crisis of faith, body disposal and marital breakdown later, we’re back at the Dolls show, and guess what? The building collapses by its rafters. The lack of many other obvious casualties or survivors tells us that the whole thing is Richie’s coked-up, fever-dream revelation that the 60s are gone, and all because of a New York Dolls show. This, Vinyl is here to show us, is the power of rock’n’roll, people.So welcome to our weekly recap, where we’ll be discussing HBO’s new prestige drama as much as music fans as TV viewers. This is Vinyl’s challenge. The obvious touchstones here are Mad Men and Boardwalk Empire – macho period pieces about damaged men trying to work their way to redemption in rapidly changing worlds while all around them behave appallingly. But those shows were set in times sufficiently long ago to feel like different worlds: we could immerse ourselves in their unrelatable glow and gasp, “Hey guys, people were messed up in the olden days, too!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aroused by the smell of youth and sweat ... Bobby Cannavale as Richie Finestra in Vinyl. Photograph: Sky TVNot so here – these times are still burned in our collective memory as though they were yesterday. Most of the show’s creators lived through it, and even someone like me – born 30 years too late to enjoy the music it depicts at the time – can draw lines from that music to such disparate corners of my record collection as Slaves and Beyoncé. The fact I just used the phrase “record collection” means the show has already made me long for more “innocent” times, when people had record collections rather than playlists. But here is a show at pains to point out that those times were anything but innocent.In that sense, Vinyl tries to have its coke and snort it. We’re dealing with culture porn here, so there’s none of Mad Men or Boardwalk’s slow-mo subtlety. In its place is an attack of exhilarating musical set-pieces that, at their best and daftest, make you feel like you’re there.As Maggie Lange at GQ notes, it’s essentially “11 hours of sweaty, coked-out people yelling at each other”. But as you couldn’t get away with that alone on HBO in 2016, it also goes quite exhaustingly out of its way to show that these are “very bad men”. Richie might be a philandering drug addict – but look how much worse everyone around him is! If anything, I could have done without all the gangsterism, but I guess co-creator and pilot director Martin Scorsese has earned the right to splash Scorseseisms across whatever he turns his hand to. We don’t even need to go into how lush those Scorceseisms are, do we? This year will have to go a long way to deliver a more sumptuous piece of telly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Juno Temple and James Jagger (yes, Mick’s son) in Vinyl. Photograph: Sky TVAll the young dudesVinyl asks you to sympathise with the apparent plight of the young undersoldiers at Richie’s label, American Century – scumbags all, whether as spineless careerists or manipulative drug dealers. But, at the same time, these are just people who believe that music is what makes you get up in the morning, and who are trying to protect their jobs in an uncertain time. It’s not like Juno Temple’s Jamie Vine was making all of the money from the label’s gold rush as “the fucking sandwich girl” – or Jack Quaid’s weasly A&R guy, Jack Morelle, had any job security.Fact and fictionThe problem I have with Vinyl so far is its depiction of real-life musicians. They’re an incredibly strange, demented, insecure and inspiring breed – sort of superheroes – but they’re also actual people. I’m sure there were probably moments when Robert Plant yelled things such as, “When I get offstage, I’m gonna go and do to those girls what your record label is doing to my band.” (They wouldn’t have got this past the lawyers if he didn’t.) But it jars when caricatures are thrown in as fleeting cameos – especially when musicians such as Plant are still alive. The producers have a right to represent real people – but the show is far more successful when it creates fictional rockers, such as proto-punks the Nasty Bits. Sleeve notesThere are some lovely throwaway lines: “Lester Bangs charged a call and then David Geffen screamed something down the phone about a Jackson Browne publishing cheque and then hung up on me.”“I don’t want a party.”“You can’t always get what you want, babe.”Nice, Mick.In case you’ve not read already, the Nasty Bits’ smacky punk lead singer Kip Stevens is played by one James Jagger.It has been written enough that Jamie and Devon are essentially photocopies of Peggy Olsen and Betty Draper. We won’t go there again for the risk of using the word “problematic”, and instead trust that the writers have it in them to grow these women into characters of their own.Not sure where they’re going with the Little Jimmy Little plot. With so much going on, tackling the issue of the industry’s racism felt a little bolted on. But if you’ve just had your heavies give someone a beating to point out that you own their recording voice, it’s possibly counterproductive to cave their windpipe in with a broom.What did you think of the pilot? As always, let us know your thoughts in the comments below. 