When Benjamin Cohen sat down to read the story King and King, in which a prince falls in love with another prince, to his little nieces, he probably wasn’t expecting an outpouring of abuse from Twitter. But that’s exactly what he got. Benjamin Cohen (@benjamincohen)Been busy reading a lovely gay inclusive book to my 3 and 1-year-old nieces 😀 pic.twitter.com/hKbfnSa5wtMay 29, 2016There are many children’s and YA books out there that teach tolerance and encourage their readers to be respectful of all types of people regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, disability, gender or sexuality.Books to breed tolerance: what children can read after the terrorist attacks in Paris Here are the top 10 quotes on tolerance from children and YA books: A person’s a person no matter how small.― Dr Seuss, Horton Hears a Who!  We all live with the objective of being happy: our lives are all different and yet the same.― Anne Frank, The Diary of a Young Girl  What was it about the differences in others that scared some people so much?― Malorie Blackman, Noughts and Crosses      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Malorie Blackman, author of the masterpiece Noughts and Crosses which has opened so many readers’ eyes to the problem of racism. Every human life is worth the same, and worth saving.― Kingsley Shacklebolt via JK Rowling, Harry Potter and the Deathly HallowsWhich are the best books exploring prejudice?   What exactly was the difference? he wondered to himself. And who decided which people wore the striped pyjamas and which people wore the uniforms? ― John Boyne, The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas   Part of love is letting a person be who they want to be.― David Levithan, Boy Meets Boy  This planet is for everyone, borders are for no one. It’s all about freedom.― Benjamin Zephaniah, Refugee Boy  Any problem can be solved between people if only they can trust each other.― Michael Morpurgo, War Horse      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A scene from the stage production of War Horse.What are the best LGBT books for children, teenagers and YAs?  Just remember that sometimes the way you think about a person isn’t the way they actually are.― John Green, Paper Towns  And it occurred to him that there were two parts to being a better person. One part was thinking about other people. The other part was not giving a toss what other people thought.― Mark Haddon, A Spot of BotherDo you have a prejudice-busting favourite fictional quote about tolerance? Tell us on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by email to childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add them to this list.