At the Sundance premiere of her new Netflix documentary series Chelsea Does, former late-night host Chelsea Handler says that she doesn’t want anyone to think that she’s getting all serious. “I know I’m not a journalist or a film-maker or anything. I don’t want people to think, Oh she’s so annoying.” It got a good laugh out of the crowded and affectionate house. There is plenty of humour in Handler’s show, even when she’s dealing with sensitive topics such as race and drugs. But viewers should not tune in hoping to learn more about these topics. Instead, they’ll find out plenty about Handler. As the title suggests, she makes each episode about herself, which is both the series’s greatest strength and weakness. Chelsea Handler: "Comedy is more of a sport for men" The episode screened at Sundance shows Handler investigating marriage, but, more specifically, exactly why she isn’t married yet. She talks to a round table of her friends, her father and siblings, her best friend, her ex-boyfriend, three guys she goes on dates with and a psychologist. While she admits this is the most personal episode of the series, which became available to all Netflix subscribers on Saturday you sure see a lot of Handler. It’s ironic because she says the inspiration from the show came from not getting out in the world more when her talk show Chelsea Lately was on the air. “After dealing with celebrities for so long,” she told the crowd, “I was dying to talk to a real person.” In many cases, she strikes up a good rapport, especially in scenes where she’s interviewing a group of pre-schoolers about their notions of love, marriage, and whether or not they think she has a good figure. (They think she does.)Other encounters, however, are less successful. As Handler says, she never makes any bones of being a journalist, but it might have been nice if she had at least kept an open mind about some of the people she was going to meet and the scenarios she might find herself in. When being set up by a pair of matchmakers or talking to celebrity wedding planner Colin Cowie, her disdain is barely held in check. When interviewing the head of extramarital dating site Ashley Madison, her dislike is palpable. She goes so far as to describe some of the couples in open relationships she interviewed as “gross”.Handler told the Sundance audience that she went into this experience hoping that people could prove her wrong, and that she learned a lot about herself making this show, but that doesn’t come across on the screen. Coming at an interview from a position of extreme prejudice might make sparks fly in a television interview, but it’s poor reporting unlikely to uncover anything surprising or revealing. Chelsea Does isn’t reportage, it’s an op-ed – highly slanted and very much in Handler’s own voice. For fans, the show will be a treat, a chance for the standup comedian to take her act out on the road. But anyone else watching this program is sure to be a little bit disappointing that there is less illumination than there is rumination. I’m sure Handler’s friends all have fascinating marriages, but hearing from more outside of her direct orbit probably would help. What this series needs is a little less Chelsea and a lot more Does. 