Born in Chigwell, Essex, Wallinger studied art at the Chelsea School of Art and at Goldsmiths College. In 1999, his sculpture Ecce Homo was the first work to be displayed on Trafalgar Square’s fourth plinth; the following year, Tate Liverpool put on a retrospective of his work. His Turner prize-winning 2007 installation State Britain, exhibited at Tate Britain, recreated a protest outside parliament by the anti-war activist Brian Haw. In 2010, Wallinger, a Labour supporter, created the work Reckless in support of a petition against government cuts to the arts. His exhibition ID will be on at Hauser & Wirth, London W1, until 7 May.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Simple but sophisticated’: Michael Simpson’s Leper Squint series. Photograph: Stuart Whipps/Spike Island/All works courtesy the artist and David Risley Gallery1 | ArtMichael Simpson, Spike Island, BristolMichael Simpson is a truly great painter and this is an extraordinary show. It has some of his monumental Bench paintings, which contemplate and are inspired by Giordano Bruno, who was tortured and executed by the Catholic church in 1600. His latest series, Leper Squint, is simple but extraordinarily sophisticated and fiercely anti-religion. The works refer to how there were these viewing holes in church walls for “undesirables” to listen in on sermons. It plays upon everything from American minimalism back through art history to 15th-century Venetian and early Flemish painting. They’re just extraordinarily beautiful, apart from anything else, so I’d urge everyone to go.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Danny Baker at the BBC radio studios in London. Photograph: Frank Baron for the Guardian2 | RadioThe Danny Baker Show, 5 LiveI think the man is a genius on the radio and I’ve been a fan for decades now; I listen to his show every Saturday. I had the happy experience of listening to an omnibus programme while I was away in LA over Christmas and New Year, bringing together the best interviews from last year. The one with Ray Davies was particularly good. There was a really breathtaking moment – he played this audio in which you can hear people messing about in the studio, and then suddenly, perfectly formed, there is the opening of Waterloo Sunset. Something so definitive suddenly emerging out of thin air.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Extraordinary bravery: Bowie in the 1980s. Photograph: Georges De Keerle/Getty Images3 | Music David BowieThe loss of David Bowie is very hard. For my generation he was absolutely key and central. His bravery at all points of his career was quite extraordinary. Through my 20s I lived with a huge Bowie fan, so I absorbed the canon by osmosis; I’ve got certain favourites, but I have a feeling they’ll all change now. I did meet him once, briefly. He was a very, very charming man. Strangely, it was a Bobby McFerrin gig – I think it would have been 1984. I was with a couple of friends: he wandered through and we couldn’t let the opportunity go. Naively, we were pressing him to come to our MA show at Goldsmiths, and he said he’d try to make it. Did he? No.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charlotte Rampling and Tom Courtenay in 45 Years. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/Shutterstock4 | Film45 YearsCharlotte Rampling is extraordinary as the retired teacher and Tom Courtenay perfect as an unendearingly childish old man. It’s very clever. I love the fact that it’s set in East Anglia, with those closed-in skies – kind of flat, endless, but claustrophobic at the same time. The rupture in the marriage is the news that the husband’s past girlfriend’s body has been found perfectly preserved after an accident in the Alps. Their rather parochial East Anglian life is described in all its mundane detail, while you conjure the image of this traumatic Alpine scene. It’s very clever, about secrets, things in the attic, and the corrosion of that marriage. I found it quietly devastating.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kenneth Macmillan’s setting of Romeo and Juliet for the Royal Ballet. Photograph: Bill Cooper/Royal Opera House5 | BalletKenneth MacMillan’s Romeo and Juliet, Royal BalletIt was the 50th anniversary production of this last year, which I saw with Nehemiah Kish and Roberta Marquez, who were both marvellous: it was actually her last performance there. It’s a work I’ve always loved and probably the greatest ballet music of all. I think there were some genius decisions by Kenneth MacMillan: certain very quiet, understated moments within the choreography. How the lovers simply step forward together before the first great pas de deux, or the fact that Juliet is stock-still as the most dramatic and churning music is used to describe her turmoil. It was as beautiful and as moving as ever. I come from a family that are mad on ballet, so I’ve been going for years. I go fairly often still.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Slavoj Žižek: writing that ‘tickles the brain’. Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian6 | NonfictionHow to Read Lacan by Slavoj ŽižekI was pretty absorbed and engaged recently with a couple of Slavoj Žižek books. This one tickles the brain and your funny bone. His books can be quite taxing, but he’s so erudite and witty they’re quite moreish. The range and scope of his analogies are tremendous. He can demonstrate an argument by reference to Hegel or the film Casablanca, or make an aside on how the German, French and English ways with lavatories are peculiarly demonstrative of their different ideologies. There are moments of clarity and then there’s just enjoying the knockabout way that he’s arrived at these things.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Top Cat, aka Boss Cat. Photograph: Rex7 | TVTop CatThis was a favourite of my childhood, and I recently watched some episodes on a long-haul flight. The writing is still extraordinary, and I like the bare-minimum of Hanna-Barbera’s animation at that point. It was called Boss Cat on the BBC because there was a cat food at the time called Top Cat, so it was verboten to mention it by name. For some reason, this gave it an extra allure as a kid: you knew he was really Top Cat, but every week in the Radio Times it was written as Boss Cat. I started watching one episode and I realised, oh my God, this is the one about Laszlo Laszlo, the neglected virtuoso violinist. It was a memory from when I was about seven, and that was a long time ago.