Newly uncovered colors of two van Gogh paintings show how the artist’s darkening life cast a shadow over his work and change the way art experts see the late period of his life.Both paintings portray Vincent van Gogh’s bedroom in Arles, southern France, in the late 1880s, and are part of a new exhibition opening in Chicago. On Sunday conservators revealed the original colors, at the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), thanks to technology called X-ray fluorescence spectrometry.Bed down with Van Gogh, your Airbnb host for the night Van Gogh finished the first version of The Bedroom in 1888, the year he moved to Arles and before his friendship with painter Paul Gauguin ended in disaster. The first painting resembles Van Gogh’s Night Cafe and other bright, colorful works from the time.He described it in a letter to his brother Theo: “I have painted the walls pale violet. The ground with checked material. The wooden bed and the chairs, yellow like fresh butter; the sheet and the pillows, lemon light green. The bedspread, scarlet coloured. The window, green. The washbasin, orangey; the tank, blue. The doors, lilac. And, that is all.”But the painting at the Art Institute of Chicago, where it has been paired at an exhibition with its later version, on loan from the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, for only second time since the artist’s death, has darker purple walls, brown furniture, the room a pale cast of what he describes in the letter – the colors don’t match.Conservation scientists at the institute analyzed the paintings and found their colors had changed over time. “At first glance they all look the same,” said Francesca Casadio, an art conservation scientist at the institute, “but when you go deeper you can start to see that they tell us far more about the artist’s life and his quest for a home.”Casadio said Van Gogh had a room ready for Gauguin and he had worked for weeks to decorate the walls with art. “In the myriad letters he wrote to his brother Theo and friends, he said the color has to do the job here,” she said. “When he was finished he slept for two days.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   How scientists believe the second, 1889, version of The Bedroom at Arles painted by Vincent van Gogh originally looked just after being painted. Photograph: Art Institute of Chicago/PAThe second version, painted after Gauguin had joined him in Arles and the artists quarreled – the fight before Van Gogh mutilated his ear – is darker than the original. Its walls are a deeper purple, the wooden furniture a contrast of browns and beige, and the floorboards have a dark reddish hue. Casadio said that Van Gogh intended the first painting to look like a Japanese print, but that his spirits fallen by the time he composed the second. “He was in a different place by then and the new visualization reveals that,” she said.The Dutch artist painted the second version in 1889, after a stay in the hospital, and Casadio said his dark mood was reflected in the work. The original painting was water damaged, Van Gogh’s letters say, and the conservators’’ analysis showed adhesion problems in the second. (Van Gogh also painted a third, smaller version shortly afterwards, which also features in the Chicago exhibition on loan from the Musée d’Orsay in Paris.)Natural chemical processes in the paint changed their colors over time, making them appear similar in the 127 years since the second was composed. “They’re light sensitive so it makes sense that the fading would progress from the outward in,” Casadio said. The X-ray data helped researchers develop color maps of the paintings in their original forms, and she conceded that the maps may not be precisely what Van Gogh painted.“Barring the invention of a time machine it will still be an approximation.”Van Gogh's bedroom or Tracey's bed: where would you rather sleep? Yale conservator Ian McClure contrasted the bedroom painting with its famous counterpart, the Night Cafe, which he said Van Gogh painted as a den of debauchery. In contrast, the restored bedroom scene projects warmth and welcome, he said, rather than the “icy blue” of the faded colors.“Not only the colors changed,” he said, “but really the whole relation between these paintings has to be understood.”Gauguin and Van Gogh did not reconcile, and the men maintained a so-called “pact of silence” about whatever happened between them. The French impressionist returned to Paris and then in 1891 travelled to Tahiti, whose people he would eventually paint in sprawling works, and settled on the island Hiva Oa.Van Gogh checked himself into an asylum but his fragile health and emotional state declined, and although he continued to paint pieces such as The Starry Night and sunflowers, his depression worsened and he shot himself in 1890.The bedroom itself remains intact: its owners advertised it for rental earlier this month.