Morrissey once told an interviewer that he chose to call his band the Smiths “because it was the most ordinary name”. It was “time that the ordinary folk of the world showed their faces,” he reasoned. More than 30 years later the singer has given his blessing to a special project celebrating people with the surname Smith in his old stomping ground.Jackie Kay, chancellor of Salford University and Scotland’s national poet, has spoken to 30 Smiths living in Salford, the Greater Manchester borough where Morrissey, Johnny Marr et al posed outside the Lads’ Club for their 1986 album The Queen Is Dead. The resulting interviews will be mixed into a soundscape with three Smiths tracks – Panic, This Charming Man and What Difference Does It Make – by the Sheffield-born musical artist and DJ Oberman Knocks.  There are stories of hospitals nearly performing operations on the wrong Smith Doing the fieldwork over a 30-day period was “like being a house-to-house therapist,” says Kay, who lives in the bohemian suburb of Chorlton in south Manchester. The Smiths all volunteered after seeing posters put up around Salford. Kay visited each one in turn, asking every Smith the same set of questions.Each was asked if they had ever been involved in a case of mistaken identity. Most had, she discovered. “In some cases quite serious: the hospital getting the wrong patient and nearly performing the wrong operation, for example. One of the women was Nicola Smith, she was a physiotherapist, but just in her ward at the hospital there were four Nicola Smiths.”None minded having such a common name: “A lot of them loved it. One woman said she was indifferent, saying it could be anything. ‘What’s in a name?’ she said. But nobody hated it. Nobody thought, ‘How boring, I wish I had a different name.’ A lot of them found it quite exciting. There was great freedom to be had, living inside an anonymous name.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It was like being a house-to-house therapist’ … Jackie Kay. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianOne man told Kay he felt a sense of “clanship” with other Smiths, whether or not they were actually related to him. “He said he felt that if he was out somewhere and met another Smith, he immediately felt some sort of affinity,” says Kay. “He thought, ‘Right you are, I’ll have your back, you’ll have my back, we’re both Smiths.’”One of Kay’s interviewees does not live in Salford but is a friend. That’s the Scottish novelist Ali Smith, who said she loved her name. “When she was at university there were four Ali Smiths when she went to get her grant. She said it was funny because when you grew up and you said your name was Smith nobody ever believed you.”Ali Smith pointed out her surname holds the sound of the word “myth”. It was apt, says Kay, given the mythology attached to the name in olden days, when people were frightened of the Smiths – blacksmiths – who lived on the edge of a village and could make fire. The observation provided Kay with a title for a specially commissioned poem she has written for the Lowry project, called Smith Myth.Some of the Salford Smiths make it into the poem, such as “The small boy who said his name was everything / And the old woman who said it was nothing” as well as the man who took his wife’s surname because she loved being a Smith so much.Kay says she initially expected to really just be interviewing Salfordians about their relationship to their musical namesake. But it quickly became clear that the most interesting material lay not in whether her interviewees had ever met Morrissey (a few had), but in the tragedies and triumphs of their own lives.One question Kay asked everyone was: what was the one single thing that has changed your life? “With some people it was the way they had fallen in love. With another it was that a friend had been murdered in the street.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Writer Ali Smith … came across four other Ali Smiths Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the Guardian“Some of it was quite disturbing,” she says. “There was one woman who was bed-ridden, she wasn’t that old but there were just mountains and mountains of clothes in her house, nearly up to the ceiling. And everything was complete chaos. You couldn’t even really sit anywhere because there was nowhere to sit. As I approached her bed she said, ‘Do you mind spiders?’ and I said, ‘What do you mean?’ The one thing that was really organised in this room were these massive tarantulas and a big jar of live crickets to be fed to them. She clearly didn’t think there was anything odd about it.”Another woman, a keen gardener, revealed that she had once been kidnapped by her own husband. She was discovered, tied up inside, only after a neighbour noticed she hadn’t been out in the garden for a while and raised the alarm. The Lowry had to approach Morrissey and Marr to get permission for their music to be used in the installation. They agreed, Kay thinks, because it echoes Morrissey’s original intentions. “I think in this project there is the germ of the original idea, which was to project the ordinary and the extraordinary together, to see them as both one and the same thing, the somebody and the nobody.” • 30 Days of the Smiths is at the Lowry, Salford, 7-8 May.