It’s always nice to be quoted. In a design for a new pot that he has released to publicise his exhibition at the Serpentine Gallery next year, Grayson Perry quotes me dismissing his work as “suburban popular culture”.Did I say that? Probably, although he also misspells my name Johnathan. Can I have that corrected on the final ceramic masterpiece, please? And isn’t this quote a bit polite compared with some of the things I have said about his work?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grayson Perry’s new work quoting ‘Johnathan Jones’. Photograph: Courtesy of the artistThe first time I ever reviewed Perry’s art was when he was included in the exhibition New Labour at the Saatchi Gallery in 2001. I’d been reading John Ruskin’s book Modern Painters, and was inspired by this fierce Victorian critic to use a fairly extreme image. Ruskin, I wrote, “once suggested the best service a monarch might perform for the arts would be to collect all the laborious landscapes of the 17th century Dutch painters, put them in a museum and burn it. I feel the same about Grayson Perry’s vases. Smash them and bury the pieces.”The Turner judges however gave Perry the 2003 Turner prize and released his inner megastar; today he is a national treasure. I won’t quote my entire collected criticism of him since (which includes a Be Nice to Grayson period when I really, really tried to see the best in him). Instead let’s jump forward to my review of his exhibition at Turner Contemporary in 2015. I still wanted that hammer:“The stupidity of his ceramics really takes the Staffordshire biscuit box. Perry’s pots start with a cliched image of traditional ceramics as genteel bourgeois decor, then go about ‘subverting’ this straw man with collaged pictures of council estates, angry kids and swearwords. One is annoying; a roomful becomes cacophonous. Walking among all the strident phrases and thinly drawn faces, I felt as if I was trapped in one of those parties drawn by Michael Heath where lots of trendy folk are talking bollocks.”Back to art school: Grayson Perry and Gillian Wearing meet tomorrow's stars Now, here’s an interesting thing, and it illuminates why I find Perry so trite and shallow. On his pot design, Johnathan Jones dismisses his art as “suburban popular culture”. That’s quite an easy criticism to rebut, for it casts Johnathan as an art snob sneering at “suburban” art from a mansion filled with old master paintings. But as you can see from the paragraph above, my real complaint is the opposite: that he glibly caricatures suburban middle-class taste and then offers a snarky, obvious, holier-than-thou satire on it. I saw new works by Perry at Frieze London the other day, and I was shocked by their awfulness. The fair had a beautiful exhibit by the potter Edmund de Waal that showed how craft really can be modern art. Then I came across Perry’s recycled ideas on boring objects that have no individuality or passion. He really is not an artist at all. No true artist can be so calculating, so stagey, so conscious of playing to the gallery. There’s a rational dryness to his art that makes it dead on arrival. His incorporation of my criticism is exactly the kind of oh-so-knowing gesture that he offers instead of any true creative fire. Grayson Perry is what happens when art becomes a pseudo intellectual entertainment for a world that is too busy to look and too distracted to feel: an artist for people who can’t be bothered with art. Now put that on a pot.