About 26,500 National Lottery players are facing compulsory password resets on their online accounts after they were apparently accessed by cybercriminals.Camelot, the firm that operates the game, said it had become aware of “suspicious activity on a very small proportion” of accounts, and it was now taking steps to understand what had happened. Logins may have been stolen from other websites where players use the same details, it said.Cybercriminals had not been able to access “core National Lottery systems”, Camelot added.“We do not hold full debit card or bank account details in National Lottery players’ online accounts and no money has been taken or deposited,” the company said in a statement. “However, we do believe that this attack may have resulted in some of the personal information that the affected players hold in their online account being accessed.”When is a hack not a hack?The National Lottery has about 9.5 million customers registered to play online. Of the compromised accounts, fewer than 50 had been suspended since the attack on Camelot’s servers, after some personal details were changed, the company said, although “some of these details may have been changed by the players themselves”.“We’d like to reassure our customers that protecting their personal data is of the utmost importance to us,” Camelot’s statement added. “We are very sorry for any inconvenience this may cause to our players and would like to encourage those with any concerns to contact us directly, so we can discuss it with them in more detail.”The kind of confidential personal information accessed could be used to build false customer profiles or commit fraud later on, said one cybersecurity expert. Chris Hodson, from information security firm Zscaler, added: “With no technical details included in the National Lottery’s statement about how the data was exfiltrated, just that it was, we can only speculate as to the tactics of these hackers.“The act of stealing personal information from these accounts but leaving financial credentials untouched, also highlights that the motives of the criminals was not immediate financial fraud but highly sought personal identifiable information.”A spokesman for the Information Commissioner’s Office said Camelot had submitted a breach report on Tuesday night. “The Data Protection Act requires organisations to do all they can to keep personal data secure – that includes protecting it from cyber-attacks,” he said. “Where we find this has not happened, we can take action. Organisations should be reminded that cybersecurity is a matter for the boardroom, not just the IT department.” Camelot said it was working with the National Crime Agency and the National Cyber Security Centre, a new division of GCHQ, to investigate the incident. An NCA spokesman said: “We can confirm that we are investigating an incident linked to Camelot. As our inquiries are ongoing, we cannot comment further at this time.”The National Lottery hack is just the latest online security breach to hit British consumers this year. Earlier this month, Tesco Bank fell victim to a cyber-attack which resulted in it paying out an estimated £2.5m to 9,000 customers. Eight million UK-based Yahoo users were affected when the internet firm’s defences were breached in September, leading to sharp criticism when it emerged that crucial account details were not encrypted.And in April more than 15,000 expectant parents had their data – including email addresses, usernames and passwords – compromised after a hack on the National Childbirth Trust.Nick Gibbons, partner at insurance and risk law firm BLM, said that Camelot’s statement seemed to fail to acknowledge the significance of the invasion of its customers’ privacy, and the risk posed by the potential disclosure of their personal information. “While perhaps less important and embarrassing than that seen in the Ashley Madison case, some people will not want the fact that they bet on the national lottery to be made public,” he said.