All artists are shy in some way. My mother’s side taught me to be a little bit afraid of everything. For a long time I was quiet and cautious. But shyness makes you notice other people’s excruciations, and feel for them. I think that made a writer of me.The later you get married the better. Sixty is the ideal age. Blokes aren’t worth knowing until then. I’ve been married three times. I married the girl next door when I was 22, and I wasn’t a good husband, but I wasn’t a good anything then. Nowadays I’m much kinder.I came alive in Sydney. I grew up in Manchester where the sky was low, I’d gone to Cambridge which I hadn’t liked, and then I went to Australia and suddenly had a purpose [Jacobson moved there at 22 to lecture at Sydney University]. I was no older than the students. In fact a lot of the people I taught then are still my best chums.Uncertainty is the only respectable intellectual position to have about everything. There’s no little thumb symbol on Facebook that says “I have a complex, ambivalent attitude”, but there should be.I’ve always liked older women. One sad thing about being my age is that there are no older women. I used to amuse my mother’s friends even at five or six with witty turns of phrase. Somehow I just knew how to be funny.You don’t remember people you love by the wise things they say but the silly things they do. We used to play charades in Sydney and an ex-student of mine once made everyone stand with their backs to the doors. The answer was Baxter Dawes, a character in Sons and Lovers. We howled at that.Winning the Booker Prize was strange. My agent jumped up and down and banged the table, and my publisher hugged me tight – he’s a strong man – so I couldn’t get to Jenny [Jacobson’s wife]. Then we put our foreheads together, and it felt like our shared success.My books are slightly outsiderish. Often people from other countries, especially Asian countries, will tell me how much they like my work. I’m always surprised by who reads me, because at literary festivals you get the sense that you’re only writing for people who are retired.There’s a new puritanism in our society. We are policing our own minds, pulling statues down of people we don’t approve of, censoring and boycotting people. But if you give in to being offended by art or literature, it’s energising.Writing is easier than clearing my desk. I am a physically lazy and reluctant person. I procrastinate about everything except writing. Sometimes it’s the only thing I can face doing.I never used to cry in the cinema, and I didn’t want to fall in love. One of the great shocks of my life was discovering how sentimental I am. If I had one hour left to live, I would take my wife in my arms, tell her how I feel, and we’d go into the dark together. Schmaltzy, isn’t it?Howard Jacobson’s latest novel, Shylock is My Name, is out now (Hogarth, £16.99). To order a copy for £13.59, go to bookshop/theguardian.com