How can a singer be controversial? Good or bad yes, more or less skilled, more or less loud, beautiful, thrilling, expressive ... Controversial, on the other hand, suggests something more than the notes and Jon Vickers is one of the very few singers in the world to deserve the accolade.If he is controversial, it does not affect his success or status as one of the tiny handful of top international opera stars. Since making his Covent Garden debut 28 years ago, he has regularly confined himself to an annual tally of 50 to 55 performances all told. His voice at 58 has aged a bit, and as he puts it “taken on a patina”, but it sounds in good enough shape to go on for another decade on the same careful, always well-rehearsed programme. He’s considering adding yet another famous role to his repertoire, and may take the lead in the world premiere of a brand new opera. His prophetic, oracular calls to attention can be profoundly uncomfortable for those who have ears to hear What’s controversial and not equally welcome to all his audience is the portentous character of his musicianship, the relentless determination to confront listeners with the meaning of the dramas that he depicts whether on stage or in the concert hall. He has the advantage of a hugely powerful, noble, memorable voice, but his prophetic, oracular calls to attention can be profoundly uncomfortable for those who have ears to hear.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roberta Knie and Jon Vickers in the San Francisco Opera’s production of Die Walkure (The Valkyrie), September 1976. Photograph: APHe can bring more intention and intensity to a single word than any singer I have ever heard. His “Amfortas, die Wunde” at the heart of his 1966 Covent Garden Parsifal (Kempe conducting) swelled like a watershed and became the overwhelming moral fulcrum of the entire work. His “Gott” at the start of Florestan’s great aria combines the hope and despair of all guiltless prisoners. Other tenors merely go through the heroic motions. Vickers creates a growing statement in a musical paragraph, explores the extension of a musical line as the great interpretative conductors do.After our interview in his dressing-room at the Royal Opera (he’s almost finished the run of Handel’s Samson there) he got back on the phone to me twice to make quite sure I hadn’t misunderstood him. First, “ When I said Samson had lost faith, I didn’t mean it just in the religious sense, but in the sense that he had been false to what he stood for.” Second, a few days later, “I just wanted to make sure you didn’t think I was disparaging technique. Of course there has to be technique, but it is not there for its own sake. The technique a singer has is not for display but to serve the meaning, to fulfil the purpose of the music.”Vickers is not a born again Christian. In fact he dislikes the Elmer Gantry, bible-thumping, moral majority image that he sometimes gets. But he has never for a moment lost the Christian commitment of his presbyterian background in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan where he was the sixth of a headmaster’s eight children. It was a poor man’s Trapp family. He believes Tannhauser is Wagner’s most full frontal assault on Christianity, the title role “despicable and amoral” The school background still comes out. Vickers enlarged on why he refused to sing Tannhauser. He believes the work is Wagner’s most full frontal assault on Christianity, the title role a blackguard “despicable, arrogant and amoral”.Vickers takes his stand on “humility before the eternal and the acceptance of justification by faith.” He’s a great Wagnerian singer, yet he has no doubt of Wagner’s evil purposes. He traces a line of corrupt influence from Voltaire and Rousseau through Schopenhauer, Nietzsche and Marx to “the greatest evil influence of all that has wreaked damage in our civilisation like no other figure – Sigmund Freud. A controversial opinion, but I have the support of one of the very great minds of this century – Mr Hayek.”Vickers’s early entrepreneurial instinct led him to handle the agency for Fleischman’s Yeastcakes at only 13, and sextuple his volume of business in four years. In his late teens Standard Brands wanted him to open their new outlet in Cuba. He really wanted to go through medical school.He never had the wildest dreams of becoming a singer. He was asked to audition for the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto because his leading lady in a semi-pro musical in Winnipeg, where he was agent for the Hudson’s Bay Company, sent them a tape of the phenomenal voice.He had a big voice and a large range, then as now. He sang Comfort Ye and Every Valley from Messiah – “no mean aria for a 20-year-old”. After two years his teacher told him the voice would probably not even be mature at 30, but was “not a run of the mill voice” and handled carefully and not pushed beyond its capacity ought to be showing its true potential by then, when – if it didn’t work – he would still be young enough to return to commerce. It meant seven years study.”It’s one of the tragedies today that youngsters study for maybe two years and think they’re qualified for the Met or Covent Garden. I know of a Canadian tenor who came here with only two operas in his repertoire. When I set foot on this stage, I had 300 Lied, 35 cantatas and oratorios and 22 operatic roles in my repertoire .”Vickers fiercely condemns the current school of vocalism “that doesn’t teach the necessity of colour.” He says he’s heard an Italian Radames sing “tin treno vicino al sol”, because he didn’t want to sing the o vowel of “trono” in the passagio. “Now there’s a big difference between a throne and a train near the sun. My teacher used to say if you can’t pronounce the word there’s something wrong with your technique.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vickers as Otello. Photograph: Reg Wilson/REX ShutterstockProfessional life began for him, Vickers says, when he woke up one day “to discover I really did not particularly enjoy singing.” It had become a duty, something that every artist has to recognise. Vickers had graduated from the valley of disillusionment (his phrase) with his integrity and idealism intact but with his naivete gone.He detests the elevation of technique to appeal to nothing but the senses. “The foundation on which I stand as an artist is that all art must appeal to the intellect. Then we’re making a contribution to civilisation, to the uplifting of man. But if we chose to indulge ourselves and chase dollars and fame at the expense of artistic integrity, if we smear the line between entertainment and art, we’re in trouble.“And the operatic world is in trouble because it’s being invaded by big PR, the personality cult, techniques that create hysteria but do nothing to elevate people.”The purpose of performance, Vickers says, is to try and transmit what the singer perceives as the composer’s message. The great operatic roles challenge the singer to live up to those creations which are more important than the composers who made them, and that means going beyond the notes.“If one chooses not to expand the talent, then you’d deny Beethoven when he says I write from the heart to the heart. And by the way I think Beethoven was wrong. He didn’t write to the heart but to the head. He didn’t go far enough with the analogy.”The real lessons for Vickers came once he reached the first XI at Covent Garden. He lists six crucial experiences: the Don Carlo with Visconti and Giulini at Covent Garden; Peter Grimes at the Met; Jenufa at the Met; Poppea in Paris; Parsifal at Covent Garden; Otello in Salzburg. “The reason I learnt is I was not instructed. Giulini entered into an immense collaboration with Luchino Visconti, with Gobbi, Browenstijn, Christoff, and with me, little me. And these are the great moments of my career because there was no prima donna. There was no one authority cramming down our throats how to do it, but a mutual cooperation to serve the art form, and try and discover what Verdi was trying to say about eternal, universal things.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Guardian, 15 March 1985.Vickers says he knows his own shortcomings better than anybody. He says ­ and it sounds naive but I’m sure it’s true ­– that he feels ashamed at how far he always falls short of what he aims to achieve. He talks of reaching out for a standard that constantly recedes “and if it doesn’t then it becomes an appeal to the lowest common denominator for the maximum amount of money.”I suggested that at least he knew what his voice would do, had that technical security. “It never does the things I want it to do. What I see in the score, what I’ve discovered of the profounder meaning of what the work is about, is so beyond my capacity to reveal, that it’s one of the frustrating and sad aspects of being an artist. The frustration of a composer putting his feelings on paper must be immense. The music’s only the beginning. Music illuminates the profundity of meaning in words like nothing else can that I know of.” 