Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for taking part.  about how our weekly series works at the end of the piece.We begin this week’s playlist in a lighthearted mood with a song from the 1952 movie The Las Vegas Story. Hoagy Carmichael tries to repel the advances of the beautiful Jane Russell. “My Resistance Is Low,” he admits.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist.Meanwhile, would-be insurgents Katzenjammer have an eye on the weather and for them: “The storm is a-coming ’cross the hills tonight / Like a vein full of rain to the hearts that should fight.” But if their plans go wrong, will they be able to flee to A Bar in Amsterdam? Maybe they will need some encouragement, as provided by rap-rockers Senser. Resistance Now! they implore. If this song doesn’t inspire the faint-hearted, nothing will.Next, making his way stealthily though the French countryside, is Leonard Cohen. The Partisan is translated from Anna Marly’s 1943 French Resistance song, and the backing singers follow Cohen’s verses with the original words.Some more historical resistance in our next track: The Ghosts of Cable Street by the Men They Couldn’t Hang looks back to the Battle of Cable Street in 1936, when police protecting a march by Oswald Mosley’s Blackshirts clashed with anti-fascist protesters in east London. Happily, the Blackshirts were forced to retreat.Now to South Africa, and a picture of life under apartheid. An old Afrikaner farmer is confident that his guns and prisons and “yards of rope for hanging still” will continue to protect him. But Latin Quarter tell him that his “guns can shoot and never hit the sky” and There’s No Rope As Long As Time.Pearl Jam sing of their Indifference to whatever they may have to endure, however bad that may be: “I won’t change direction, and I won’t change my mind,” they tell us. In Resistencia, Los de Abajo sing of poverty and deprivation in their homeland of Mexico: “Resistance – don’t stop shouting.”Mischief Brew’s gleefully subversive Boycott Me! has an Irish flavour, although the band were from Philadelphia. Sadly, their founder member Erik Petersen was another casualty of 2016. That was a year that did, however, see the release of a new album by veteran guitarist Jeff Beck, in which he demonstrates that he’s lost none of his skills with either words or music. In apparent contradiction to Gil Scott-Heron, he tells us that The Revolution Will Be Televised: “You can watch it in HD / And talk like a weekend warrior / from the safety of your settee” – but, if everyone does that, “There won’t be much revolution to watch.” Everyday life may be a struggle, but Jamaican-born reggae artist Beres Hammond is Putting Up Resistance. So is Tom Petty, who brings us towards the end of this week’s playlist with his defiant anthem, I Won’t Back Down: “You can stand me up at the gates of hell,” he tells us.It is, of course, coincidence that Ohm sounds very much like Om. But do take time out to meditate on how much we owe to the work of 19th-century physicists such as Georg Ohm, or just lose yourself in Kraftwerk’s Ohm Sweet Ohm, their punningly titled, utterly beautiful tribute to the SI unit of electrical resistance.New theme: how to join inThe new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 6 April. You then have until 11pm on Monday 10 April to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for Readers recommend:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog. 