Anyone who has attended a gig or a football match is familiar with old-school ticket touts. They stand by the station, or pace up and down outside the venue, peppering the air with their mantra: “Tickets for the match, I’ll buy or sell.”How the ticket touts get away with bleeding fans dry While street touts are still a common sight, they’re something of a relic of a bygone era. These days, the real money is made by so-called “armchair touts”, computer-savvy traders who deploy a variety of techniques to snap up tickets the moment they go on sale. Genuine fans are left empty-handed and have no choice but to resort to so-called “secondary” ticket sites such as viagogo, Get Me In and StubHub. There, the armchair touts are waiting, offering the highly prized tickets at vastly inflated prices. It’s a licence to print money, as an investigation by the Observer revealed last year. But even the armchair traders aren’t at the top of the touting food chain though. Far less visible, but more lucrative, is the business of touting expensive venue debentures, boxes and VIP sections.This weekend it emerged that a box at the Royal Albert Hall, on the same level as the Queen’s berth in the royal box, is up for sale for £2.5m. But will the buyer be the same person sitting in the box come concert day? Perhaps not. Harrods Estates, which is managing the sale, is likely to field bids from ticket agencies, essentially industrial-scale touts, looking to buy the box and make a profit by selling seats for in-demand events individually. This is where the real money is, according to Reg Walker, a security expert who works with venues to curb touting and has given evidence to MPs on the scale of the problem. “It’s been going on for years and there’s not a venue in the UK that hasn’t been infiltrated by touts this way,” he said. “There’s massive amounts of money to be made because if you’ve got a box, or a section of seats, you’ve got them all year round. As a tout, it gets you a regular supply of good seats without having to get up early when tickets go on sale or use a bot [automated software] to harvest tickets.” Until last summer, you’d have been hard-pressed to find a politician willing to talk about ticket touting Some people will be outraged that touts would target a noble institution such as the Royal Albert Hall, named for Queen Victoria’s husband and the scene of Britain’s annual patriotic chest-thumping event, the Last Night of the Proms. It might be a blessing in disguise, though.Until last summer, you’d have been hard-pressed to find a politician willing to talk about ticket touting. Labour MP Sharon Hodgson served as the sole parliamentary standard-bearer for the issue. After all, it was only millennials missing out on gig tickets, and the cultural appetites of young people are hardly top of the priority list when you’re trying to win votes. But support for a crackdown on touts snowballed in 2016, gathering up Tory MPs, as they targeted artists favoured by older, more influential and wealthier people.When touts staged a feeding frenzy on Phil Collins’ show, also at the Albert Hall, the issue gained traction. So too with a theatre production of Harry Potter, a name surely familiar to even the most dog-eared members of the Commons and the Lords. Now that tickets for the Royal Albert Hall’s performances by virtuoso pianist Lang Lang and David Gilmour are seen to be under threat, perhaps the government will finally be minded to act.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Will Theresa May now take note of ticket touts?Economics professor Michael Waterson completed his review of secondary ticketing in May last year. His suggestions included enforcement action against anyone who breaches consumer laws. As has been made abundantly clear in the Guardian and elsewhere, touts who buy and resell tickets are routinely flouting some of these laws. Many ticketing experts insist there is no legal way to resell tickets for profit.Four months after Waterson published his review, he expressed fears that it had been “pushed into the long grass”. Another four months on and the Competition and Markets Authority has launched a probe into the industry, but the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) remains curiously tight-lipped. The department, led by Karen Bradley, says only that it will respond “in due course”.Meanwhile, touts continue to leech off the creative brilliance of Britain’s music scene and the popularity of must-have sports events. In an episode of Desert Island Discs, Theresa May once revealed herself to be a fan of Abba. Perhaps it will take an Abba comeback tour for her government to realise that in this industry the winner takes it all. And the only winners are ticket touts making money, money, money.