I am in my 80s now and who can be trusted to come after me? My children and my children’s children will not speak to me. But I am Lady Ruth Pratchett, the She Devil. President of the IGP, the Institute of Gender Parity. Ring any bells? Thought not. It’s been near enough 35 years since I last made an appearance and most of you will have forgotten what all the fuss was about. Looks like I’m going to have to do a lot of backstory.Here’s Bobbo, my ex-husband. He ran off with that airhead romantic novelist, Mary Fisher, so I took my revenge by making her life a misery, dumping my kids on her, and having surgery to make myself look more attractive. It made me a feminist icon at the time, but now no one gives a toss. Mary jumped off the HQ of the IGP, Bobbo went to prison for stashing my loot in a Swiss bank account, and now he’s 94 and suffering from Alzheimer’s. “I don’t have Alzheimer’s,” shouts Bobbo. “I just say the word ‘cunt’ a lot to be offensive.” He does have Alzheimer’s. He will be dead soon.Every week, the little family comes to see me. I’m Matilda, the family therapist, by the way. There’s Nicci, the old woman’s daughter; her twin daughters, Mason and Madison; and her son, Tyler, whom she would have aborted if she had known he was going to be a boy. They’re all completely messed up. Put it down to Powerful Narcissistic Disorder.Tyler went to the Jobcentre Plus to sign on. Ever since he had surgery to fix a wonky eye, he has been too beautiful to get work. Everyone assumed he was already too entitled and gave the job to a woman instead. Tyler wasn’t that bothered as he was a bit thick and liked to have sex with Hermione, the drug-dealer.Hooh-wooh! I am the ghost of Mary Fisher. I just sort of hang about a bit to add colour.Valerie Valeria had plans to become head of the UN. But first she had to become leader of the IGP. It shouldn’t be a problem, she thought. The old She Devil was completely past it. All she needed to do was to shake things up a bit. Organising the Women’s Widdershins walk should do it.Ruth realised she had now spent almost two-thirds of the book filling in the backstory in the hope of setting up a flimsy satire. “Fuck, shit, bollocks,” said Bobbo. “Quite,” the reader agreed. “I’m moving in with your mum,” Matilda announced. “Ugh,” cried Madison and Mason together. “You’re disgusting lezzers.” Having achieved their goal of being offensive, the two girls left the book. Along with Nicci and Matilda. Valerie was very attracted to Tyler and couldn’t control her usual lesbian tendencies.Hooh-wooh! I’m going to make Tyler prematurely ejaculate, thought Mary, keen to rob the story of what little narrative tension it had.“Oh dear,” said Tyler. “I’ve prematurely ejaculated.” Valerie was a little put out, but hid her disappointment. “Why don’t you dress up as a woman and then I can take you into the High Tower to see your grandfather Bobbo before he dies?” Tyler nodded. Being a woman sounded a lot less hassle than being a man.“Fuck, shit, bollocks,” said Bobbo. “Oh, look he’s died,” Valerie sniggered. “No, I fucking haven’t.” But he had. And secretly he was mightily relieved to escape from the book by page 200. As was Mary Fisher. No more hooh-wooing for her. She wondered if anyone had found her funny. They hadn’t.Valerie had another idea. Why didn’t Tyler transition to become a girl? Tyler thought that was a great idea. He had always wanted to have labioplasty and be called Tayla.Up in the High Tower, as the IGP’s HQ is known, Ruth was quite pleased that her grandson would become her granddaughter, and dug out the old suitcase full of cash that Bobbo had embezzled for her. At times like this, she worried for her own memory as the plot was becoming ever more absurd, but she was too old to concern herself with such details now. Still, it was probably best to wrap things up quite quickly. But only after Tayla had been given some more hormones.Sometime either before or after a fire gutted one side of the High Tower, Valerie left the IGP. She hoped no one would realise the organisation was nearly £750,000 in the red. But they did.Fay escorted Ruth to the top of the High Tower. She had tried so hard to offend as many people as possible, but had only left her readers feeling a bit bored and confused that a comedy could have so little sparkle. There was only one thing for it. She pushed Ruth over the edge and scattered the money to the winds. Fuck you, feminism.Digested read: The walking dead.