One of Hollywood’s most high-profile awards ceremonies, the Golden Globes, is to change its rules following controversy over science-fiction epic The Martian’s victory in the best comedy or musical section in January.Tighter rules on Golden Globes comedy and Louder than Bombs reviewed – the Dailies film podcast The decision by the makers of Ridley Scott’s blockbuster to compete as a comedy was widely criticised: Trainwreck director Judd Apatow said dramatic movies with humorous content should not be able to “pick whatever category” they wanted to be in, and pondered whether movies with Asian cast members might now be able to compete for best foreign film. Now the Globes’ organisers, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, have moved to ensure the issue does not rear its head at next year’s ceremony. New rules will mean “dramas with comedic overtones should be entered as dramas”, reports Entertainment Weekly.The Martian was narrowly voted in as a comedy by a Globes eligibility committee in December. Scott’s film beat Apatow’s Trainwreck, The Big Short, Joy and Spy to the award for best comedy or musical, while star Matt Damon rather compounded the controversy by also winning best actor in a comedy or musical.Judd Apatow attacks The Martian's Golden Globes win in Critics' Choice rant Apatow later called out the Bourne Ultimatum star at the Critics’ Choice awards. “I got Matt Damon staring at me right now,” said Apatow from the podium. “After that whole ‘Golden Globe comedy’ thing. We only have one award Matt, that’s all we get. I’m like a nerd on the schoolyard and you stole my milk money.”He had earlier tweeted: “Trying to dominate the comedy category when you are really a drama [that is] afraid of dramatic competition is a punk move.” Judd Apatow (@JuddApatow)Trying to dominate the comedy category when you are really a drama afraid of dramatic competition is a punk move. https://t.co/wIzGHCmeGxOctober 7, 2015The comedy rule change is among 11 pages of alterations for the 2017 Golden Globes. Another notable shift means studios will no longer be able to wine and dine voters between the date of the announcement of nominations and the final ceremony, which next year will be held on 8 January.