This month, Sex returns to the city: an infamous play written by and starring the budding starlet Mae West in the 1920s. After a 10-month run on Broadway in 1927, the play was deemed by a grand jury to be such “obscene, indecent, immoral, and impure drama” that it might corrupt “the morals of youth”. West was sentenced to 10 days in jail for obscenity, and travelled there in style – garlanded in roses, wearing silk underwear and riding in a limousine. The notoriety helped the actor, who said she had “climbed the ladder of success wrong by wrong”. Several years after the Sex scandal, Paramount Pictures offered West – then aged 38 – a studio contract. She went on to become one of the best-known and best paid stars of the era: legend has it that, by 1935, she was the second-highest paid person in the US behind the publisher William Randolph Hearst. Even more impressive than West’s salary, or her age when she commandeered Hollywood, was the control she held over her career. The breezy, bawdy characters she played were partly of her own design, thanks to a deal she negotiated with Paramount allowing her to write her own lines.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Now, the play that propelled her into the spotlight is coming back to New York where it will be performed as a staged reading (29 September to 2 October). It is being produced by the feminist theatre group, the Dirty Blondes, to kick off their residency with the Frigid festival at Horse Trade theatre group.“Mae West used her sexuality to obtain power. She turned it on its head by being this brave and intelligent artist,” says Ashley Jacobson, the artistic director and co-founder of the Dirty Blondes. “She was more than a Hollywood bombshell: she was an artist who created the work that she wanted for herself.” Sex’s lead character, Margy LaMont, is a sharp-witted sex worker who struggles to find a better life. “She’s an intelligent woman, but you can feel the shackles placed on her as a woman in the 1920s,” says Elizabeth Sarkady, the co-founder and executive director of the Dirty Blondes (as well as the manager of business development at BAM). “Margy can’t escape what she is and what she does without a man.” Margy wants to find a new life by marrying a well-to-do man, and the play deals with her choice between two suitors. “One is a young man who doesn’t know anything about her but wants to marry her in a well-intentioned act of ownership,” Jacobson says. “Then there’s a long-term client who knows and loves her for exactly who she is.” One man represents a complete escape from her life while the other symbolizes Margy accepting who she is. “The play is about how she can claim power within the confines of being a woman and a sex worker in the 1920s,” Jacobson says. “In the play, every woman is reduced down, as though all they offer is sex – that’s why it’s called Sex.”A key feature of the readings will be the special events taking place after each performance. Jacobson and Sarkady have invited guests to take part in talkbacks, such as the artist Juniper Fleming – who has previously directed, produced and performed in an all-sex worker revival of Sex. “We wanted to walk about the history of the play and the issues around it, so the talkbacks are a huge part of what we want to do,” Jacobson says. Other guests include the historian Linda Ann Loschiavo, an expert in West; the feminist poet Maya Osborne; and the burlesque dancer Veronica Varlow. “We’re really trying to honor West’s legacy by putting this play in context,” Jacobson says. The play is a somewhat unusual choice for the Dirty Blondes, which typically focuses on work with and by living artists. Since being founded in Brooklyn in 2012, it has produced 15 pieces of new theater and worked with more than 340 artists. “We want to support work that is daring, socially aware and adventurous, and we really want to push social advocacy in theatre,” Jacobson says. “We hope the plays we put out there propel a larger mission. Some have a feminist point of view, while others are more general – but all of them have a bit of bite.”One such example is The American Play, a work written by Jacobson about two young men obsessed with the serial killing protagonist of American Psycho, Patrick Bateman. The Dirty Blondes’ production was lauded by critics as “raw, contemporary and edgy”, “... honest and frightening” and “incredibly refreshing”, and won an award for overall excellence in playwriting at FringeNYC last year.West’s chutzpah resonates with Jacobson and Sarkady. “Her attitude was: ‘If my friends aren’t getting work, and I’m not getting work then I’m going to create my own work,’ and it really helped her career,” Jacobson says. “That really speaks to us, especially as two female founders. We want to say that we have as much right to be here as anyone else. We shouldn’t be in women-only festivals. Mae West was such a big star and she really controlled her career image. If she can do it, then we all can do it, too.”