Tarantino's pops props cops and our Sundance selects – the Dailies film podcast Quentin Tarantino’s father has promised to give 10% of the proceeds of Prism, a forthcoming independent movie he has written and directed, to the Los Angeles Police Protective League, in response to his son’s comments about police brutality.Tony Tarantino, the estranged father of the Hateful Eight director, told the New York Daily News: “Quentin’s ignorance [about] law enforcement and his inciting so much hate towards [police] really infuriated and upset me to the point where speaking out is not enough ... That is where the idea came from and we have worked on it since then to logistically put it together.”Prism, which is described as “a drama about law enforcement fighting drug cartels”, is based on the novel Color of the Prism by Thomas J Nichols. Tony Tarantino is credited as writer, director and producer, and also has one of the lead roles. He is hoping to secure a December release slot for the film.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Quentin Tarantino was met with a tide of protest from police unions, after he spoke at an anti-police brutality rally in New York in October 2015, saying: “I have to call the murderers the murderers.” Police unions called for a boycott of The Hateful Eight, and claimed a victory after the film failed to do well at the box office. Tony Tarantino added his voice to their protest in November, saying that he had relatives in the police and that what “[Quentin] did and what he said is dead wrong, I’m 100 percent on that”.Quentin Tarantino is unlikely to be impressed at his father’s efforts, having stated publicly that he was raised by his mother in a single-parent family and that Tony “was never part of my life. I didn’t know him.” And most cuttingly of all: “He wanted to be an actor ... Now he’s an actor only because he has my last name.” • This article was amended on 28 January 2016 to remove an incorrect date for the publication of the novel Color of the Prism. Tony Tarantino’s representative would like to point out that his client appeared in a movie in 1960, before Quentin Tarantino was born.