To the turn of the millennium, history buffs: an amusing time, when All Saints sought to position themselves as NWA to the Spice Girls’ New Kids on the Block. If your records-management programme regarded the following information as defunct sometime around 2002, circumstances force me to remind you that All Saints comprised Shaznay Lewis, Melanie Blatt and sisters Nicole and Natalie Appleton, with the latter pair ... how to put this? ... not widely credited as the sweetest-natured in showbiz.The only thing younger readers really need to know about the group is the legendary triviality of their demise. All Saints split up in 2001 over who got to wear a combat jacket in a photoshoot. “I wouldn’t ever in a million years have put money on the group ending over a jacket incident,” reflected Shaznay years later, as though it belied the gravitas of their oeuvre thitherto. “But when that incident happened, it flared up so strong, it had to be over.” (The jacket was eventually decommissioned by General John de Chastelain in August of that year; rumours the Appletons had stockpiled an arsenal of Maharishi trousers were never substantiated.)As for the sisters’ decision to write a memoir of their time in the group in 2002, Lewis would go on to declare: “That was that for me. I know so much shit on them, on everybody, but you would never get me to say.”Still, it’s amazing what you can put behind you when you’re really committed to making important music. After an abortive return in 2006, the heart-warming rumours have become official: All Saints are to reform again, with their new single due next month. According to Natalie: “I just missed being with the girls. It makes us happy. Listen, if you can work with your favourite people, then why not?”Marvellous. Yet, clearly, there are “a few questions that I need to know” (a few answers, surely?). Despite declining to confirm officially that the album is the result of a visitation by the 10th muse – Akkountancy – Shaznay has unleashed a humdinger of a teaser about the forthcoming single. To wit: it is about nothing less emotionally appealing than the breakup of Nicole Appleton and Liam Gallagher.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liam Gallagher arrives at the family court with lawyer Fiona Shackleton in September 2015. Photograph: Ben Pruchnie/Getty ImagesWell. First off, I am, of course, hugely grateful for the opportunity to post again this photo of Our Kid arriving at the high court last September with celebrity divorce lawyer Fiona Shackleton. Because the Appleton/Gallagher settlement hearing was originally held in secret, we had only picture hints such as that to go on, and consequently assumed that Shackleton would argue that her client couldn’t possibly be expected to act responsibly because he was literally Kevin the Teenager’s best friend Perry.But, as it turned out, the judge, Martin O’Dwyer, would eventually permit a lifting of restrictions, thus allowing it to become public that both Nicole and Liam had been ticked off for being obviously ghastly people. Admittedly, I’m translating from the legalese, but he did call it “manifestly excessive” that the pair spent more than £800,000 fighting over the division of almost £11m of assets. And having made the somewhat demeaning suggestion that Liam might want to start boosting his income by appearing on celebrity TV shows, m’lud concluded sternly: “Allegation and counter allegations can proliferate, and take not only costs of the parties but use the publicly funded resources of court time.”“Taxpayers money?” ran Liam’s tweeted retort. “I’ve heard it all now, WOW.” Come come, Our Kid. I for one would never claim to have heard it all until I’ve heard Shaznay’s three-chord rumination on this most edifying of romantic schisms – or, indeed, your jungle rebuttal of it come November.