The rumor-mill had it right: the Metropolitan Opera went with youth and brand-name recognition when selecting Yannick Nézet-Séguin as its next music director. Inarguably a star on classical music’s global circuit, the 41-year-old Canadian conductor has already triumphed at America’s largest opera house – most recently in last season’s opening night premiere of a new production of Otello.He can create an admirably crisp orchestral sound, bringing out all the layers of a score, without stinting on power or lyricism. He radiates energy from the podium, and has recorded for Deutsche Grammophon. Yet despite all the good sense his appointment makes, there’s still much to be determined about how he’ll approach the job, and what this move will mean for the Met overall.Yannick Nézet-Séguin to take reins as Metropolitan Opera music director First of all, he won’t officially step into the post long occupied by James Levine until 2020. Not such a long delay, given how far in advance top maestros happen to be booked. Between now and then, Nézet-Séguin will become the “music director designate” at the Met in the 2017-18 season. (And he was already on the schedule to lead Wagner’s Der Fliegende Holländer next spring.) Levine, for his part, has now stepped into the role of “music director emeritus”. Notice anything about that succession plan? That’s right: there’s currently not a music director at the Met.This amounts to something of a power vacuum – and a status quo that leaves general manager Peter Gelb the unchallenged artistic director of the Met, in all but name. He’s had some successes in that role (see: stagings of works by John Adams, and convincing William Kentridge to direct whatever he’d like to direct) and also some failures (a misbegotten Ring Cycle), but few would argue that a strong music director isn’t also needed, the better to round out the house’s vision.Yannick Nézet-Séguin: 'I had a dream, and that dream came true' Intriguingly, during brief remarks streamed on the Met website on Thursday morning, Nézet-Séguin seemed to signal his awareness of this issue, professing himself eager to “start immediately” the task of shaping the house’s future direction. He added that he wanted “to serve, but also to lead – and to be an idea-giver to the company in the next months and years”. But there were few specifics given.That streaming event was a joint statement by various opera house officials, including Nézet-Séguin – who teleconferenced in from Japan. No questions were taken from journalists. What follows is a rundown of some big issues in need of greater clarity. Even if the answers are not likely to be come for some years, they’re worth batting around now. (As you may have heard, honeymoons aren’t terribly long for players newly drafted by New York cultural institutions.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A scene from Two Boys by Nico Muhly, a co-production between ENO and Metropolitan Opera. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianWhat music will he champion?Nézet-Séguin has conducted some exemplary Verdi and Dvorak at the house. And we’ll hear the results of some Wagner before too long. But those are all composers the Met will program no matter who’s in charge of steering the orchestra, chorus and vocal soloists. Part of what made the Met such a singular institution, over the Levine years, was his own opinion about what was made for great opera music. He stumped for rarities by the likes of Debussy and helped make Berg’s operas part of the canon.Gelb has added in some American music on his own – think of works by Adams, Philip Glass and Nico Muhly. The Met’s contemporary repertoire now also includes music by Kaija Saariaho and Thomas Adès. But what does Nézet-Séguin think about modern composition? And which composers might he like to commission? At present, his discography is slim on the contemporary side. Novelty isn’t everything, but neither is it unimportant.What are his dramatic tastes?For all his opinions about music, Levine wasn’t particularly outspoken about the art of directing. Here, too, Gelb has charted a sometimes successful course –commissioning memorable stagings from Kentridge as well as David Alden. But there has also been perhaps an over-reliance on names such as Bartlett Sher. Few people would expect Nézet-Séguin to start making calls on who directs which opera, but a conductor with opinions on drama can also lend a crucial assist to a staging that’s otherwise just coasting.Not only in New York – how the most powerful man in opera took the Met to the world Does he have a plan to reach out to new audiences?It’s easy to rend garments over the future of classical music by looking at public polling survey data (which often seems to suggest that young people don’t care about opera), or else talk about “the ageing of the audience”. In fact, as the New Yorker’s Alex Ross recently pointed out, mass audiences may be dwindling across the board as entertainment options proliferate. But without giving undue credence to any single snapshot regarding cultural consumption, it’s hard to argue with the idea that opera could use a fresh and effective new advocate. Nézet-Séguin has the requisite youth and energy to make that pitch. How will he go about it?How devoted to the Met will he be?In the age of the jet-set maestro, it’s typical for a conductor to keep several jobs at once. Thursday also brought the news that Nézet-Séguin will stay on as music director of the Philadelphia Orchestra through 2026. (He’s already proved capable of conducting a matinee in Philadelphia and an evening show in New York, on previous occasions.) He’ll also let go of a couple side gigs, too, during his “interim” tenure at the Met.Though in his prime, Levine showed what a music director can do with greater-than-typical dedication. He crafted ambitious outings for the orchestra’s musicians (frequently heard at Carnegie Hall), and developed a young-artist training program that nurtured the talents of current house stars such as Sondra Radvanovsky. Nézet-Séguin is set to lead five productions a year, once he’s fully clicked into place at the Met. But the job isn’t just about the number of performances given.