Coronation Street creator Tony Warren has died aged 79.The man who brought to life television’s longest-running soap opera passed away on Monday night after a short illness.Warren created the ITV soap in 1960 – when he was just 24 – as a gritty drama based in the fictional district of Weatherfield in Greater Manchester.Despite initial misgivings by the executives who commissioned it, it grew from an initial seven episodes to become one of television’s best-loved shows. He went on to write the first 13 episodes of the long-running soap. Warren wrote scripts for Granada Television on a full-time basis until 1968.He then worked on other television dramas and went on to craft several critically acclaimed novels in the 90s, although his association with Coronation Street continued. He wrote episodes for the soap until the late 70s. In a statement, ITV said: “It is with great sadness that Coronation Street confirms legendary creator and acclaimed writer Tony Warren MBE passed away peacefully last night surrounded by his loving friends, aged 79, after a short illness.“All who worked with Tony throughout his illustrious career had the utmost respect for his achievements and he remained a consultant on the Manchester-based soap until the day he died. “He was considered one of the television industry’s greatest minds as he devised the idea for the Weatherfield soap at the age of 24, at the very beginning of his acclaimed writing career.” The actor who plays Ken Barlow, actor William Roache, who had worked with Warren since Coronation Street’s first episode on 9 December 1960, said he was the “father” of the soap. “When I first met Tony I couldn’t quite believe he’d created and written Coronation Street because he was no more than a young boy,” he said. “It was his boyish energy, even recently when I saw him again, that I’ll remember. I loved Tony’s energy. He was the father of Coronation Street and he gave us all so much. “He will be so desperately missed because of who he was and what he did. We owe him so much.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Helen Worth pays tribute to Coronation Street creator Tony Warren – videoHelen Worth, who plays Gail McIntyre and had worked with Warren for 42 years, said: “Tony was a genius of our time, the dearest, funniest and most inspirational man of his generation. “He brought real life into our homes for us all to relate to and enjoy. He will, of course, live on forever through Coronation Street.”  Les Dennis, the Street’s Michael Rodwell, tweeted: “So sad to hear about Tony Warren. A true Television Pioneer. Proud to have known him. The itvcorrie cobbles a lonelier place without him.” Antony Cotton, who has portrayed Sean Tully since 2003, posted a message on Twitter. “With heavy heart & great sadness I can confirm that our pal Tony Warren has died. He leaves the greatest legacy. I’ll miss him so much.” Sally Lindsay, who played Rovers Return barmaid Shelley Unwin from 2001 to 2006, tweeted: “Tony created a celebration of the working class and I was proud to be part of it. Thank you Tony, for everything.” Jane Danson, best known as Corrie’s Leanne Tilsley, sent a message on Twitter: “itvcorrie so so sad to hear this news – Tony was a kind man and inspired many – weatherfield has a broken heart right now xx,” she wrote. Kym Marsh, who has played Michelle Connor for 10 years, tweeted: “With such sadness today we say goodbye to the great Tony Warren. An amazing man, a true legend. We owe him so much. He will be sadly missed.” Tina O’Brien, who has reprised her role as Sarah-Louise Platt, tweeted: “Sad day here at itvcorrie RIP Tony Warren.”Samia Ghadie, best known as Maria Connor, said: “So saddened to hear that Tony Warren has died. He was the truly wonderful man who gave us itvcorrie ... RipTony we will never forget you.” Andrew Whyment, who plays Ghadie’s on screen brother Kirk Sutherland, tweeted: “Such sad news Tony Warren passing away we will never forget you and thank you for giving us all itvcorrie RIP LEGEND x.” Actor Connor McIntyre, who plays villainous builder Pat Phelan, said on Twitter: “RIP Tony Warren ... thank you for everything.” Outside of Coronation Street, the man regarded as its “father” was remembered by Dominic Treadwell-Collins, the outgoing executive producer of EastEnders.The boss of Corrie’s biggest rival tweeted: “The first man of British soap opera has left us and the world is a poorer place for it. RIP Tony Warren.”ITV director of television Kevin Lygo said: “Tony Warren was a charming man who gave ITV and the nation the greatest gift imaginable when he created Coronation Street, an idea that continues to entertain millions on a regular basis. We all owe him an enormous debt of thanks.” Warren grew up in Swinton, Greater Manchester, and honed his ear for dialogue listening to his mother and female relatives. The groundbreaking writer oversaw the creation of some of television’s most famous characters, from barmaid Bet Lynch to the formidable Ena Sharples.He once revealed that he had sent an early version of Coronation Street to the BBC but never heard back from the corporation. However, the BBC did make a drama about the creation of the soap, The Road to Coronation Street, six years ago, which starred David Dawson as Warren and Jessie Wallace as actress Pat Phoenix. Tony Warren: Coronation Street wouldn't be the same if I was straight In an interview with the Guardian in 2010, Warren said that being gay had helped inform his writing. “The outsider sees more, hears more, has to remember more to survive,” he said. “All that is terrific training for a writer.”Homosexuality was illegal when Coronation Street was created and Warren said that, “if you were going to work in television and you were gay, you had to be three times as good as anyone else.“The first Coronation Street writing team contained some of the biggest homophobes I’ve ever met. I remember getting to my feet in a story conference and saying: ‘Gentlemen, I have sat here for two-and-a-half hours and listened to three poof jokes, a storyline dismissed as poofy and an actor described as ‘useless for us as he’s a poof’. As a matter of fact, he isn’t. But I would point out that I am one, and without a poof none of you would be in work today.’”Warren is survived by his cousin Roy, his loving and devoted friends and his colleagues at Coronation Street, who in later years became like family to him. 