Spoiler alert: this blog is published after Homeland airs in the US. Only read on if you’ve watched series six episode eight, which airs in the UK on Sundays.The truth is the first casualty when things cut up rough and it takes a battering this week. Brett O’Keeffe stitches up Andrew Keane, Javadi lies to the President-elect and Quinn fails to tell dreams from reality. The key players’ ability to pick out the truth from the propaganda will ultimately decide their fates. Although it’s a bad week for Carrie and Saul, at least they now know they can trust each other. In the past, that’s always seen them through.“We can’t just stand by and watch her gut our Armed Forces”Brett O’Keefe’s rabble-rousing show is called “The Real Truth”. It is nothing of the sort of course, but factual accuracy has never been its intention. It exists to provide an alternative narrative to the official one provided by the “world government”. In a shamelessly scabrous section, O’Keefe uses military veterans to swiftboat the President-elect’s dead son and present Andrew Keane as “the opposite of a hero”.Footage from Afghanistan shows that Keane died running into the line of fire to save his wounded comrades, but if you edit it just right, you can make it look like he was running away. The cynicism is stunning – anything to make Elizabeth Keane look like “the most dangerous person to ever set foot in the White House”.Overseeing it all like some demonic executive producer is Dar Adal. Is there any scumbag alive he doesn’t have on speed dial?“You’re different than you were – you have to accept that” Quinn’s paranoia has been a mixed blessing this series. It successfully alerted him to the threat in the apartment opposite Carrie’s but also put him in the middle of that unfortunate siege situation. This week, Astrid comes under suspicion and as she goes for a run, he disarms her gun, neutralising any potential threat from her.When she can’t provide the answers he needs, he gut-punches her, steals her car and stakes out the motel where he believes the man from the apartment opposite Carrie’s is staying. In a deeply regrettable case of mistaken identity, he brains an innocent man with a tyre iron before sheepishly returning to the lake house to apologise.But sorry only gets you so far when you earlier launched the bullets from your former lover’s gun into a lake, leaving her defenceless when her murderer comes to take her life. After dispatching Astrid, the baseball cap wearing killing machine shoots Quinn for a second time before unloading an entire cartridge into the water after him. He walks away, confident that no one can survive that. But he doesn’t know who he’s dealing with. Quinn is indestructible. “We need to take precautions Majid, you don’t have many friends here”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carrie is utterly desolate after losing Franny. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Jeff Neumann/ShowtimeWhen Saul calls round to Carrie, he finds her utterly desolate. To lose Franny, the very reason she left the intelligence racket, feels like a fatal blow. The timing is horrible but Saul needs to ask a big favour of her – a meeting between Javadi and the President-elect. Fortunately, he has just enough juice to get the location of Franny’s foster home. It is hugely painful for Carrie but she gains heart from seeing Franny in a safe environment.With Carrie back in the game, the pair can start to exchange notes on the supposed parallel nuclear program and the Manhattan bombing. He tells her that Mossad were acting with help from inside the US intelligence community. She tells him about Dar Adal’s visit, Sekou Bah’s framing and Agent Conlin’s murder. It’s beginning to look a lot like treason.Using up the last piece of goodwill she has with the President-elect, Carrie brokers a meeting between Javadi and Keane. Ever a man for the big occasion, Javadi uses his historic opportunity to feed the next president a load of baloney about the Iranians cheating on the nuclear deal. “Saul has many qualities,” he tells her, “the most admirable of which is his optimism.”Elizabeth has heard enough. She makes it clear she won’t be using Carrie’s services again. Humiliated and betrayed, all Saul wants to know is why? It’s nothing personal – it usually isn’t with Javadi. He totally empathises with Saul as a man who no longer has the clout he once had in the community. Like all great survivors, Javadi heeds his instincts. The black hats, headed by Dar Adal, hold sway. That’s the horse to back. He is appalling but he’s not exactly wrong.Notes and observations      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Humiliated and betrayed … Saul with Elizabeth Keane. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Jeff Neumann/ShowtimeJavadi is insulted when Saul puts him up in a grubby shelter, but where better for someone as morally derelict and politically homeless as him?Are Brody’s remains really in a martyrs’ graveyard in a pine forest in Iran? Almost certainly not, but the idea is as beautifully poetic as it is stunningly inappropriate.Astrid died for love and while I’m as much a sucker for that idea as the next man I would have liked her to be better used this series. Nina Hoss nonetheless did great work with what she had.I could be wrong but I feel like it’s becoming harder to see Dar Adal surviving this year. Having gone from a lovably roguish hawk to treasonous murderer, he has surely overreached. Will it fall to his protégé/victim Quinn to kill him? “We fucked each other because we were lonely – that doesn’t make us friends.” Bloody hell, Quinn. As if punching her in the gut wasn’t enough.What will it take to kill Quinn? Is Dar Adal ultimately doomed? Is Franny better off in care? Your thoughts are very welcome below.