The therapy session in TV drama: only an option if you know your actor can carry long, quiet close-ups. Can they talk for a minute uninterrupted and hold us rapt? Can the lines on their face tell the story? When Sarah Lancashire is your actor and Sally Wainwright scripts her, the answers are yes. This second series of Happy Valley is a ghost of the first, a coda, a remix: it’s more about examining what lay beneath the original story than giving us new chapters. But Lancashire and Wainwright are finessing their creation beautifully. ‘She said it was my fault, which it was, and it wasn’t’Two weeks since she crashed Tommy Lee Royce’s mum’s funeral, Sgt Catherine Cawood is in a posh, panelled room having counselling; her bosses have insisted on it. We spend eight of the episode’s first 15 minutes hearing what it’s like for her to go on living when the grief has subsided, but the loss of her daughter remains (“I’m sad. I never used to be sad”) and setting up the episode’s theme: how her tough exterior has alienated her from everyone she knows.“Nobody needs to be scared of me unless they’ve done something they shouldn’t have,” Catherine tells the therapist. She knows it’s not true. Her colleagues fear her, as we see in a comic subplot in which she tries to find out what her nicknames at work are (“Brunhilda” and “Miss Trunchbull”)..       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Subtle and smart … Sarah Lancashire’s performance is brilliant.Even Joyce, the station call-handler who can go toe-to-toe with Catherine, isn’t safe. After a pally night out, during which Catherine confesses that she lied to her therapist by telling him she doesn’t regret sparing Tommy’s life, Catherine threatens her friend not to blab. The moment she realises her misjudgment is another where Lancashire shows us the isolated soul under the uniform.Her handling of Catherine in this season has been brilliant: flinty, witty and smart, but closed-off and, above all, tired. The downside of this softer, more subtle take on the character is that sometimes we have not been able to make out what she is saying. Plus, with all this introspection, she’s barely involved in what’s normally the meat of the show: pulse-quickening crime drama. ‘Head. Left hand. Right hand. Left leg … ’Stumbling homicide detective John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle) spent the first two episodes distracted by his mistress blackmailing him. Now he’s even more on edge: his team are discussing her death, and he did it. And, yes, the Calder Valley serial killer sexually assaults women with a broken bottle, so to pass Vicky off as another victim, John had to … do that. More horror is coming, though it arrives with a mood-leavening moment of comical mundanity. “John,” says Superintendent Shepherd, “can you come and do exhibits with me at the postmortem? Emma’s had to go to the dentist.”There’s a trope in bad crime dramas where the postmortem is an excuse for nudity: a young woman laid out for us to linger over. The Happy Valley autopsy room is not that. Vicky is bloated, battered and wrapped in a series of plastic bags labelled according to body parts, which John must file as evidence.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   You can almost smell the formaldehyde ... Vicky’s visceral postmortem.It’s a magnificently visceral scene – you can almost smell the formaldehyde – that only spares us the sight of Vicky being cut open because it has more awful places to go. When the pathologist opines that this is probably the work of the serial killer, Doyle pulls off a tremendous, subtle reaction shot with just the faintest suggestion of a smile around the eyes. Has he got away with it?Next time we see him, he’s in his pants, ironing a shirt with gusto. On his way to the postmortem, John ran into Ann Gallagher and reported that he had found his wife having sex with another man – which made Ann pity him enough to agree to his date invite. Now John’s at home, throwing insults. “Whore! Slapper!” he says to his wife. He can’t do verbal aggression convincingly, and loses it when he tries to get creative: “Filthy bitch! Pox merchant!” Pox merchant? This isn’t Cadfael, John. It gets worse at the office. Ann shows up at John’s desk to confirm their drink, then inconveniently suggests that his team’s unidentified victim could be the tenant of a burned-out flat the coppers are investigating. John’s younger, smarter boss Jodie rings him later while he’s driving distractedly through the countryside: Ann was right – it’s Vicky. John swerves his car into a wall, then sits there as it gets dark instead of meeting Ann, who glumly drinks wine alone. Better off out of that one, love.‘I try not to have nasty thoughts, Frances, but …’The plot about the evil people-traffickers inches forward – the man Catherine tasered in the testicles is released on bail, but then turns up hanged from a tree, which suggests the Knezovic family are just as awful as we thought. But the real danger to Catherine is elsewhere.We’re back in that prison visiting room: Shirley Henderson and James Norton again have their faces so close you expect sparks to jump from one to the other. Frances spins a tale about how Ryan has talked a lot about Tommy – he loves him, he forgives him, he’s sorry for his part in his dad’s arrest. Frances gets off on feeding Tommy what we think (but, given Ryan’s unreliability, don’t actually know) is a pack of lies.Time for Norton to earn his corn. Veins bulging, eyes streaming, wild with malevolence, he tells Frances that talking to Ryan isn’t enough. He needs Frances to take proper revenge on Catherine. “She needs putting out of her misery, that one.”It seems Catherine is about to face a new threat, from someone who has convinced us she is worth fearing. But Frances doesn’t know who she is messing with.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Veins bulging, eyes streaming ... Shirley Henderson and James Norton earn their corn.Pungent metaphor of the week“You just hear yourself talking wank. Dripping off the ceiling and crawling down the walls. The room’s so full of it by the time you’ve finished, you’ve to wade through it in your wellies to get out” – Catherine on the joys of therapy.Neil Ackroyd, super-studOur only experience of Clare and Neil’s sex life has been the muffled sound of humping in episode two. It’s a lucky escape if the way they stood in Catherine’s kitchen is any guide: him behind her left shoulder, reaching over her right to hold hands near her navel. They’re the same height: it looked like a Guantánamo stress position. Either he’s the most awkward man in Yorkshire or he’s hiding something. Strictly anonymousAn episode full of throwaway comic relief. The waitress offering Catherine and Joyce tepid praise for the restaurant’s musical tribute acts was fantastic, as was this pearl from Catherine, on Clare falling off the wagon: “She’s been at every AA meeting going since. They do all sorts. They have a jive class.”