Climate march to spoil Trump’s big dayIt seems the Earth has a sense of irony. “Record-breaking heat” is possible at the People’s Climate March in DC on Saturday, where thousands of people are planning to protest against the president’s climate change policies on his 100th day in office. Trump’s initiatives include, but are not limited to, a 31% cut in the Environmental Protection Agency and potentially leaving the Paris climate agreement.Among those suffering in the heat will be former vice-president Al Gore and, apparently, Leonardo DiCaprio. It is likely to take a titanic effort to change the other Wolf of Wall Street’s mind, however, as Trump has repeatedly said that the inception of climate change had nothing to do with mankind. Only 1,361 more days of this to go!A group of senators, including Resistance regular Bernie Sanders, this week unveiled legislation that aims to transition to 100% clean and renewable energy by 2050.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The White House did not respond to the Guardian’s questions regarding the president’s hue. Photograph: Mike Nelson/EPAThe resistance’s next target: big banks Hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their allies will be striking and marching around the country on 1 May. The May Day protests are traditionally led by unions and labor groups, but this year – galvanized by the Trump administration – immigration, racial justice, gender equality and LGBT groups will be playing a big part.Demonstrations will take place in a number of states. Activist groups are launching a “Corporate Backers of Hate Campaign” on the same day, which will see demonstrations at the offices of companies seen to be supporting or benefiting from the Trump presidency. Targets include JP Morgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs.Luke Skywalker v TrumpTrump will be met by thousands of Luke Skywalkers, Hans Solos, and, depending on individuals’ tastes, Jar Jar Binkses when he returns to New York City next week. It’s the president’s first trip to his home city since inauguration day but he will be met by protests. Given Trump’s visit comes on 4 May (May the fourth be with you, etc), organizers have called for activists to come clad in Star Wars gear.The president, a noted fan of heavy machinery, will be visiting the USS Intrepid aircraft carrier-cum-museum with the Australian prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull. The NYPD says it costs $308,000 a day to protect Trump during his New York jaunts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Protest Trump, you will. Photograph: AlamyIslamophobia on the riseThere has been a 1,035% spike in Islamophobic incidents at US borders during Trump’s first 100 days, according to the Council on American-Islamic relations (Cair).In a press conference on Thursday Cair’s executive director, Nihad Awad, said the group, which he founded in 1994, had “never seen a spike” under any previous administration. A coalition of Muslim organizations is holding a two-day meeting in Washington on 1-2 May when they will lobby elected representatives to take action.What we’re reading • “Trump is the worst thing that could have happened to the planet,” writes climate activist Bill McKibben, but his catastrophic attitude towards the environment has at least forced politicians, and some private enterprises, to step up.• In related news, the Trump administration is considering allowing oil and gas companies to drill off the Atlantic seaboard. The president has ordered his interior department to “review offshore areas potentially rich in fossil fuels that were put out of reach of drilling by Barack Obama’s administration”, according to Oliver Milman.X-files reduxOn Wednesday the government launched a new hotline for people to report crimes committed by “illegal aliens”. It appears to be another anti-immigrant step by the Trump administration – but the plan was reportedly thwarted when people called the hotline to report UFO sightings. Or sightings of Superman. Or Big Foot. You get the idea.Steven Santos (@stevensantos)If any of you need to report space aliens to our government, please call their hotline: 1-855-48-VOICE. Here are some of their Most Wanted: pic.twitter.com/nWnVYdDdpGApril 27, 2017Sign Up for our weekly newsletter about the Resistance