New York’s Metropolitan Opera has announced that Yannick Nézet-Séguin is to be the company’s new music director. The 41-year-old French-Canadian conductor succeeds James Levine, who held the position for 40 years but retires at the end of this current season. Yannick Nézet-Séguin: 'I had a dream, and that dream came true' Nézet-Séguin will not take up his position officially until the 2020-21 season due to existing commitments. During the interim period, Nézet-Séguin assumes the title music director designate and will conduct two operas a season, although he will be involved from the outset in the company’s artistic planning. Levine will be music director emeritus.Nézet-Séguin made his Met debut in 2009 conducting Bizet’s Carmen – a “bracing, fleet and fresh account of the score” from which “the singers benefited immensely,” wrote the New York Times’s reviewer. Nézet-Séguin has since conducted Don Carlos, Rusalka and La Traviata there, and opened the 2015-16 season with Verdi’s Otello, about which the Wall Street Journal wrote: “If the action on the stage sometimes flagged, there was plenty in the pit, where the superb conductor, Yannick Nézet-Séguin, etched a high-tension dramatic arc.” His Wagner debut at the New York theatre comes later in the season with a production of Der Fliegende Holländer. I believe the Met is the greatest opera company in the world with the best principal singers on the planetYannick Nézet-Séguin Although he has conducted widely in the UK, Nézet-Séguin has done little opera in the country. His choice of orchestral and operatic repertoire tends broadly towards 19th and early 20th-century European music, his eye for detail and sensitive touch bringing fresh takes on great canonical works by the likes of Mahler, Mendelssohn and Saint-Saens. But a Rusalka at Covent Garden in spring 2012 met with strong reviews: “Nézet-Séguin’s conducting gives the performance a dramatic shape: measured to begin with, it gradually builds in intensity until the climax is authentically shattering,” wrote Andrew Clements in the Guardian. The conductor is midway through a Mozart opera recording series for Deutsche Grammophon with the Chamber Orchestra of Europe and continues to work across the continent – guesting at institutions including the London Philharmonic, the Berlin Philharmonic and Vienna Philharmonic. His successful tenure as music director of the Rotterdam Philharmonic comes to an end in summer 2018.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In the US, he has been music director of the Philadelphia Orchestra since 2012: his contract there has recently been extended to 2025-26. “Becoming the music director of the Metropolitan Opera is the fulfillment of a lifelong dream for me,” said Nézet-Séguin. “I believe [it] is the greatest opera company in the world with the best principal singers on the planet.”Not only in New York – how the most powerful man in opera took the Met to the world “Yannick was the clear choice,” said general manager Peter Gelb. “He is the right artist to lead us forward into a new chapter in the history of the Met.” Jessica Phillips, clarinettist and chair of the Met’s Orchestra committee said “The Met Orchestra enjoys a tremendously fruitful, positive relationship with Maestro Nézet-Séguin. He embodies the ... respect for rich tradition that opera lowers around the world have come to cherish. We look forward to working together to shape this new era at the Met.” Nézet-Séguin is only the third person to hold the title of music director in the Met’s history. Come 2020 and the official commencement of his role, he will conduct five productions per season as well as take on artistic responsibility for the company’s orchestra, chorus and music staff. “I will make it my mission to passionately preserve the highest artistic standards while imagining a new bright future for our art form,” said Nézet-Séguin on a live link from Japan, where he is currently on tour with the Philadelphia Orchestra. “I want to make people realise how opera is important in their lives.” 