As expected, Spotlight, Tom McCarthy’s bracing account of the Boston Globe’s Pulitzer prize-winning investigation into a massive child molestation cover-up within the local Catholic archdiocese, won the Screen Actors Guild award for outstanding cast in a motion picture on Saturday. The win for the union’s equivalent of the Oscar for best picture confirms it as the frontrunner for the main prize at the Academy Awards on 28 February. Granted, not all winners of the top SAG award have gone on to do victory laps at the Oscars: over the past 20 years, 10 have managed the feat, including Birdman last year. Still, it would come as a shock should Spotlight lose on Oscars night to its only true competition, The Big Short, Adam McKay’s damning black comedy about the Wall Street crash of 2008 – which has been awarded with major nominations from almost every top guild that votes on the Oscars.Since emerging on the scene following rapturous bows at the Venice and Toronto film festivals, Spotlight has been pegged as the one to beat, and its SAG win, coupled with telling Producers Guild and Directors Guild nods, only boosts its chances. It’s a timely, passionate and expertly executed work that boasts an exemplary cast. In other words: it’s the type of film the Academy is known for rewarding.The best male actor and female actor categories also offered zero surprises, with Leonardo DiCaprio winning for his grueling work in The Revenant, and Brie Larson netting her first SAG award for her acclaimed performance in Room. The two, like Spotlight, were favored to win: they both won equivalent honors at the Golden Globes, and have benefited from general goodwill showered upon them this awards season. The pair are a lock for Oscar glory.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Idris Elba collects his SAG award Photograph: REX/ShutterstockThe same unfortunately can’t be said for Idris Elba, who surprised to win for best supporting actor in Cary Fukunaga’s war drama, Beasts of No Nation, but is not up for an Oscar after having failed to make the nomination cut. His glaring omission when the Oscar nods were announced on 22 January played a large role in igniting the #OscarsSoWhite debate that has since galvanized the industry (for a second year in a row, no actors of color were nominated in any of the acting categories). He beat out Oscar nominees Christian Bale and Mark Rylance to net the honor. (Impressively, Elba collected a second SAG award for his turn on BBC’s Luther.)#OscarsSoWhiteAndStraight: the Academy fails at diversity yet again His deserved win leaves the pool wide open for same award at the Oscars. Bet on Sylverster Stallone, who failed to score a SAG nod, on winning for his comeback performance in Creed. Of the actors nominated, he’s the clear standout in a film that was otherwise unfairly overlooked.Finally, there’s Alicia Vikander, the Swedish actor who beat Rooney Mara (Carol), Rachel McAdams (Spotlight), Helen Mirren (Trumbo) and Kate Winslet (Steve Jobs) to take home the best female supporting actor trophy for Todd Hooper’s transgender period drama The Danish Girl.Last year was indisputably her breakout, following acclaimed performances in the aforementioned film in addition to Ex Machina, Testament of Youth and The Man From UNCLE. She’s favored to do a repeat at the Oscars, but her win is by no means a lock. Vikander faces formidable competition, namely from Mara, who won best actress at the Cannes film festival, and Winslet, an Academy favorite who’s coming off a Golden Globe win for her showy performance as Steve Jobs’ right-hand woman, Joanna Hoffman.