The first postgraduate course in the design of unmanned autonomous vehicles is being launched at Southampton University this month as the global market for civilian and military drones expands into a £5bn-a-year industry.The city where the Spitfire was developed in the 1930s has now become the first to build and fly a UAV created using laser-printing technology – a drone whose elliptical wings echo those of the second world war fighter plane.Academics at the university are working with the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) to develop swarms of micro-drones to study atmospheric and climate patterns.The Southampton team is also in discussions with the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which is interested in covert, aerial surveillance, as well as with the US navy's disruptive technologies group, with which they are exploring the possibility of producing disposable drones that could be "reprinted" every day.The production technique, known as sintering, uses 3D printing technology to create solid objects out of cakes of powdered nylon, solidifying designs with lasers beams.UAVs are seen by many as a threat, as "Big Brother in the sky". The rapid proliferation of robotic technology for military and surveillance purposes has prompted calls for international legal controls to be imposed on the technology.Attempts to develop "autonomous targeting" – where unmanned planes lock automatically on to what their on-board computers assume is the enemy – have reinforced criticism of supposedly pinpoint drone strikes in Pakistan that have caused civilian deaths. This week the US announced the expansion of its drone base in the Seychelles, for use in attacks on Somalia.But the CIA's Predators and Reapers are no longer the only drones in the skies. In the last few years the variety of uses for UAVs has multiplied, diversifying from military surveillance or remotely operated missile systems. As well as working with the BAS, Southampton University is helping game parks in Namibia to develop UAVs that track endangered species.Southampton's MSc course, which has 12 students signed up for its first year, will not only cover the development and flying of unmanned aircraft but also the construction of underwater and land-based robotic vehicles. The course is expected to expand to 20 students in a few years' time.The university began developing its UAV expertise in the early 1990s with the Autosub programme for the National Oceanography Centre, which is based in the city. The battery-powered submarine completed 300 dives to map the North Sea and assess herring stocks."We want to readjust the public's view of UAVs," said Dr Matt Bennett, managing director of Sky Circuits who will also teach on the course. "People just saw them initially as being for police surveillance or the military but there are many other uses."People should love them. They have smaller engines than planes. They are environmentally friendly." Bennett's firm makes autopilot systems for UAVs.Professor Jim Scanlan, one of the course directors and a former head of manufacturing research at BAE Systems, cites the example of the Met Office, which sends weather balloons 6,000ft (1,829 metres) up into the sky with £100 worth of instruments that are "thrown away" after each flight. Working with weather forecasters, he hopes to be able to develop UAVs that return intact with their equipment."We are studying non-military applications and that's where the big growth will be," Scanlan said. "I believe the course is the only one in the world taking students from designing and building a UAV to flying the aircraft."Drones are already being used in Britain for aerial photography and for surveyors' inspections of high-rise buildings. Police forces and fire brigades have deployed UAVs too.More exotic and inventive uses are now being explored: as search and rescue aircraft for coastguards, as a means of measuring volcanic ash densities and as crop monitoring systems. "We have had an approach from a game park in Namibia that is worried about poaching and wants to keep a track of cheetahs," said Scanlan.Most drones are driven by propellers at the rear so the nose section can be filled with a multitude of sensors such as thermal-imaging devices, infrared cameras, radiation detectors, temperature and humidity recorders or audio equipment.Paparazzi use of drones, for remotely-snatched celebrity photos, may not be far away. In April, the Daily, a Murdoch online US news services for the iPad, hired a drone to gather aerial pictures of the devastation inflicted by a tornado on Tuscaloosa, Alabama. The Southampton team are also talking to the BBC about exploiting UAVs for camera work.