Roy Mallows, 53, shepherd, CambridgeshireThe county council land we farm was originally allotments. My grandfather took them over as they became vacant. He farmed pigs and poultry, and the arable land was used to produce feed. When he died in the 1960s, my father took over and farmed pigs and cattle; I joined him after I left school in 1979.By this time, the pigs were gone and cattle prices were on their way down, so we started a pedigree sheep flock. We now run about 550 ewes and followers, producing rams for breeding and high-quality butchers’ lambs. The arable land has been put down to grass as it no longer pays.Sheep are seven days a week, 24 hours a day: there is always one sick, dead, stuck in a fence or out on the road. You have to be a midwife at lambing time, a hairdresser for shearing and a doctor all year round. Only the other night, I met a ewe and her lambs in the middle of the high street at 9.30pm – but for once it wasn’t one of mine. With my son and some friends, we managed to trap them until the owner arrived with his daughter and sheepdog to herd them home.June was a nightmare this year because of the rain, every day. I couldn’t get the shearing done: wet sheep won’t shear. Wool’s not worth a lot (about £2 a fleece) which just about covers the cost of shearing. Lamb prices are approximately £75-£85 per lamb, depending on the weight and grade – which, when you take subsidies and costs into account, is no better than when I left school. All of the farmers running small or middle-sized farms I know voted to leave the EU because they believe, as I do, that prices cannot get any worse; if they do, it will be the nail in the coffin.A shepherd like me has a very uncertain future. My father is still working at nearly 80, but many younger tenants are being made to retire at 65, which does not bode well for me. My job is extremely physical; I cannot see myself doing the work I do now in 10 years’ time. We are living on low wages and have only the state pension to come. People who work in offices think they have a stressful life, but we have a responsibility for the welfare of our animals, whatever the cost to our health and pockets.Of course there are things I love. I see things that other people miss. I was talking to a friend, and I saw a treecreeper bird climbing one of his trees. I told him it was quite rare, and he hadn’t any idea. I see butterflies that people say have died out. I might not know the proper name of a plant, but I can tell you exactly where it grows.I’m never away from the river, and I see it change every day. The cricket club had a clear-up recently and they destroyed a kingfisher nest that had been there for 15 years – they thought it was just a hole in the bank. It was a shame: I used to like watching that kingfisher popping in and out. He’ll be back, though.Kim Dixson, 28, footballer and community worker, south London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kim Dixson: ‘You have to motivate other people to get outside.’ Photograph: Ben Quinton for the GuardianI’ve been at Charlton football club since I was eight. I’m now captain of Charlton Athletic women, and I played for England under-23s. I trained as a PE teacher, and I’ve always wanted to do something outdoors and sporty.I work with young people who might have been in trouble with the police. A big part of my job is running sessions on estates, in areas with high levels of antisocial behaviour, crime and deprivation. We go into the community, set up games and try to encourage the young residents to get involved. Sometimes it’s a struggle, especially if the weather’s not good. A lot of them are more used to being inside with their mates, playing on PlayStations. But when they do come out, it’s great to see the effect it has; they’re just happier.Part of my job is office-based: there’s admin around getting referrals for some of the young people I work with and arranging one-to-one mentoring. But I’m out every afternoon: some days I coach the Charlton girls’ under-16 side, then I’ll train with the ladies’ team until 10pm. Occasionally I’m in the office 9-5, and I’m not the best at coping with that. I don’t like sitting still for long.It is challenging when you’ve got snow and hailstones: you can’t clear snow off AstroTurf. You have to stay positive, though, and motivate other people to get outside, so I just put on a brave face. Rain, I’m not that fussed about. As long as I’ve got a coat with a hood, it doesn’t bother me.Becky Austin, 29, assistant warden at the RSPB’s Loch Lomond reserve, Scotland      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Becky Austin: ‘I pinch myself every day that someone’s paying me to do this.’ Photograph: Martin Hunter for the GuardianI manage the residential volunteers who live on site at the lake. Throughout the winter we’re cutting vegetation in the Aber bog, removing willow, sorting out the fences so the grazing cattle stay where they’re supposed to. Putting up a fence by myself is one of the trickiest things I’ve done. We also have a lot of survey work to do: getting up at dawn, watching the birds during breeding season, looking out for aggressive or nesting behaviour, or different species carrying food. You have to identify them all by song and call, which is something I’ve had to learn.In the summer, you have to go out after sunset to do some of the observational work. Up here, sunset is after 11pm, and you can hear the spotted crake calling to each other. You see tawny owls and barn owls, and ospreys fishing on the loch. I saw my first pine marten when I was out doing survey work.In the winter, it’s a bit tougher. We have to be out at dawn to observe the geese, which roost on the flooded areas of the loch; we stand there until they all leave and try to count them. Sometimes all 10,000 birds go up at once so it’s impossible – but the noise they make is just fantastic. I’ve been pretty lucky with the winters so far, but it still gets very, very cold, and there are times when you’re standing there, feet freezing, binoculars shaking; but good wellies, a flask and good company help a lot.We manage 237 hectares, and there’s a whole range of habitats – wetland, woodland, ponds, the bog. My favourite spot is on one of the farm fields. There’s an oak tree with a little nook that I fit into perfectly, and I can just sit there and read. It feels like home. I pinch myself every day that someone’s paying me to do this.Angelo Daniel, 19, horticultural apprentice at the Lost Gardens of Heligan, Cornwall      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Angelo Daniel: ‘My favourite space is the jungle.’ Photograph: Rebecca Rees for the GuardianI left sixth-form college last summer, and was looking for an agricultural apprenticeship. I’d never been to Cornwall before I came for the interview (I was living 300 miles away in Shropshire) but I fell in love with the place. I spent the entire day wandering about with my mouth open.The gardens used to be privately owned. At the beginning of the first world war, most of the gardeners were enlisted and killed and the gardens fell into disrepair. In the early 1990s, they started a restoration project. It’s around 250 acres and now owned by a trust.My favourite space is the jungle – a large valley with a natural microclimate. The original gardeners planted it up with a lot of tropical and Australasian plants, and when it was abandoned it grew up into this completely bizarre space. The valley means it’s always around five degrees warmer, with very little wind, so it’s like stepping through a window into the tropics.I live about a mile away, on the edge of a village called Mevagissey. In the winter I’ll ride my motorcycle to work, but in the summer I might run. There’s a path about 50 metres from my front door that runs right up through the woods to the estate. I’m quite into parkour, and there are lots of great places to free run on my way in and out of work, which is pretty great.My day starts at 8am, and we usually begin with a tidy-up, trying to clear the fallen petals and leaves. It sounds a bit boring, but it’s a lovely way to start the day; there’s something special about spending a portion of the early morning either on your own or in a small group, just silently getting in touch with what the day is doing. In the last week or so, I’ve been doing a lot of harvesting in the veg garden, digging up potatoes, picking broad beans, raking over a new strawberry bed. The produce is taken to the tearooms, and the vast majority of it is used on site. We get to eat here, too.I work until 4.30pm, then my time is my own. Wandering down to the sea takes a couple of minutes. If I’m not there, then I might go climbing. I like walking a lot. I have a Facebook account I check every couple of days, but apart from that, internet culture really doesn’t interest me. I don’t see the point.My apprenticeship is for two years. I’m not sure what I’ll do next, but I’d like to study and become a dendrologist [an expert on trees and shrubs], if things go to plan. But I’m content for now.Kristy Duncan, 38, wildlife conservationist trainee, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kristy Duncan: ‘Doing this job is like an outdoor gym, but better.’ Photograph: Ben Quinton for the GuardianI was a dental nurse in Scotland for many years. I didn’t realise I could have a career in the environmental sector; I’d always thought of it as a hobby. But when I moved back down to London, I started volunteering with the Wildlife Trust and I saw an advert for the course I’m now on.Most of the week, we’re outside. There is a lot of grassland management, clearing scrubs, coppicing. Then, once a week we have to go to the devil’s drawing room (that’s how I think of central London) for classroom sessions. That’s my least favourite day, but honestly there’s nothing I would change about my current life. Every day I wake up and I feel blessed; I don’t get that sense of dread any more.I had lost two stone before becoming a trainee because I hadn’t been well, and at first I felt quite weak. But I soon became strong again, and now I’m at my healthiest. Doing this work is like an outdoor gym, but better. It makes sense though, doesn’t it? If you look at human beings in the past, they never exercised for fun. It’s strange how we’re more sedentary, how we’re having to create environments for exercise when we could just be out in the world.Working outdoors has given me a bigger appreciation of the rain, which surprised me. When we started in October, it was torrential rain, really horrendous weather, and I loved it. You feel quite energised. It beats scraping the saliva out of someone’s mouth.When I graduate, I want to work in woodland management. I’d like to get involved in forest schools, and make sure we reach out into the community to show people what’s on their doorstep. I’m always urging my friends and family to get more involved, but it’s not easy. It’s about having a certain mindset, and understanding that these spaces can build connections between different groups of people and benefit a whole community.Ben Rayner, 39, outdoor learning leader, Sussex      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Rayner: ‘It’s amazing how spending a day in the country can transform people.’ Photograph: Ben Quinton for the GuardianMy official title is corporate training and developmental coordinator, which means I run courses for groups that involve a lot of physical activity: it might be kayaking, or climbing, or orienteering. We see a lot of people who have recently graduated who are great at computer work or interacting on social media, but they struggle with picking up a phone or talking face to face. It’s amazing how spending a day in the country can transform people. You might see someone with a reputation for being really quiet in the office suddenly become the loudest, most proactive person when they’re faced with a challenge course. Today I had a team of adults who all had behavioural problems as children and were struggling with employment. We did a day out on the pond, kayaking, stand-up paddleboarding, and everyone was just so relaxed and engaged; it was great.I used to be a mobile phone salesman, working in the City of London and the home counties. It was a very target-driven, stressful job, and I was on my laptop till 10pm. I always had this thought in the back of my head that I should be doing this instead.I ended up taking a voluntary role in the Lake District for six months. They took me under their wing and paid for a lot of my qualifications. In my spare time I was kayaking and climbing, just to clock up the hours.My wife calls me a winter husband. During the summer, I’m often working from 8am until 10 at night, or I’m away on an overnight session. But I can take three weeks off at Christmas. We do work all year round. A couple of years ago, a lake froze over completely and we had a group of teenagers who were meant to be out on the water. We just put them in dry suits and got them to use the canoes as icebreakers. They had the best time, and I think some of the best work we do is in the winter – when people are up against it in the rain and at their wits’ end. That’s when people have life-changing experiences.