Michael Wearing, who has died aged 78, was a television producer and executive behind some of the most socially and politically charged dramas of the late 20th century. He successfully steered the medium through a period when single plays were dropped in favour of series. It was his work as script editor on The Black Stuff, the writer Alan Bleasdale’s 1980 Play for Today, that led him two years later to produce the landmark five-part drama Boys from the Blackstuff, which became a battle cry for the unemployed in Thatcher’s Britain after their numbers soared to more than three million. Bernard Hill’s cry of “Gissa job” in his role as Yosser Hughes became a national catchphrase.However, Wearing continued to use the single-play format by presenting each episode as the story of one of the five Liverpool tarmac layers looking for work. To keep costs down, he budgeted the series across two financial years and had most of it shot with lightweight video cameras. Wearing – described by Bleasdale as “witty, laconic and almost debonair but slightly bedraggled” – also stamped his own mark on the production.He and the director, Philip Saville, noticing the lack of a strong female character, met Bleasdale at his home to discuss one aspect of the third episode, focused on Chrissie (played by Michael Angelis). Always seeking not to discourage writers, Wearing simply told Bleasdale: “The rest is great, but this is very thin.” More directly, Saville said: “Write me a woman’s part.” The result was Chrissie’s wife, Angie, played by Julie Walters, whose despair added further pathos to the drama, notably with the lines: “It’s not funny, it is not friggin’ funny. I’ve had enough of that, ‘If you don’t laugh, you’ll cry.’ I’ve heard it for years. This stupid, soddin’ city’s full of it. Why don’t you cry? Why don’t you scream? Why don’t you fight back, you bastards? Fight back.”Another topical issue tackled by Wearing came with Troy Kennedy Martin’s nuclear thriller Edge of Darkness (1985). The six-part serial, starring Bob Peck as a Yorkshire detective whose daughter, an anti-nuclear campaigner, is murdered, came in the wake of renewed debate about nuclear weapons in Britain and was sold to 26 countries. Twenty-five years later, Wearing and the original director, Martin Campbell, turned Edge of Darkness into a film starring Mel Gibson.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Wearing during the filming of the Screen Two drama Fellow Traveller (1991), written by Michael Eaton and directed by Philip Saville. Photograph: Lu JefferyWearing’s other major triumph, as executive producer, was Our Friends in the North (1996), Peter Flannery’s epic nine-part drama, set over three decades, paralleling four Newcastle friends’ emotional upheavals with political and police corruption. Wearing wanted to make it after seeing the original stage play performed by the Royal Shakespeare Company at the Gulbenkian Studio, Newcastle, in 1982. As a former student in the city when the council leader T Dan Smith was taking bribes from the architect John Poulson, he instantly connected with the play’s themes.Over the next 14 years, Wearing went through many battles to get it to the screen and many more to claim half of the annual BBC drama budget for it. He also replaced one of the two directors after 10 weeks’ filming and had the first episode re-shot. The result was another television classic and, like Boys from the Blackstuff and Edge of Darkness, it won Bafta’s best drama award.Wearing was born in Southgate, north London, son of Douglas, a Stock Exchange clerk, and his wife, Molly (nee Dawson). After attending Dame Alice Owen’s school, Islington, he was among the first generation of working-class grammar school pupils to go to university. He studied anthropology at Durham, then worked for two years as a research assistant at Leeds University, where he directed plays.His production of Max Frisch’s The Chinese Wall, starring Alan Yentob – who has since had a long career as a BBC presenter and executive – won the top award at the 1967 national student drama festival. It ran for three nights in the West End, at the Garrick theatre. Wearing left his research job and worked as an assistant stage manager with Bromley rep before directing the Barry Hines play Billy’s Last Stand (1970) and others at the Royal Court theatre.He then toured the country in a van to stage performances of Nikolai Gogol’s Diary of a Madman, a one-man show performed by Victor Henry, at art schools and student theatres. In Birmingham, David Rose, the BBC’s head of English regions drama, based in the city, saw it and produced a 1973 television version dramatised by Wearing and Henry. Three years later, Rose offered Wearing a job as script editor in his department, working on many productions including Willy Russell’s Our Day Out (1977) and Scully’s New Year’s Eve (another Bleasdale single play, 1978).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Boys from the Blackstuff – BBC videoIn 1980 he became a producer. One of his most satisfying early successes was Christopher Hampton’s 1981 four-part adaptation of Malcolm Bradbury’s novel The History Man, starring Antony Sher as a radical and philandering sociology lecturer.Before Boys from the Blackstuff came to the screen, Wearing persuaded Bleasdale to write the single drama The Muscle Market (1981), starring Pete Postlethwaite as the crooked owner of a building firm. It was originally intended to be part of the Blackstuff series, but Wearing produced it as a stop-gap while he negotiated the budget with BBC bosses. “It gave me the confidence to keep going,” Bleasdale told me. “Michael was very good at holding his cards close to his chest. For reasons of my confidence, he didn’t ever want to give me bad news.”Wearing then moved to the BBC in London and worked briefly for ITV’s Euston Films (1986-87) before returning to the corporation in 1988 and producing Blind Justice, Flannery’s story of barristers coming into conflict with the Thatcher government and the legal establishment.A year later Wearing became head of drama serials. Alongside Paula Milne’s Die Kinder (1990), Hanif Kureishi’s The Buddha of Suburbia (1993), Dennis Potter’s Karaoke and Cold Lazarus (both 1996), and Tony Marchant’s Holding On (1997), he commissioned classic literary adaptations such as Middlemarch (1994), Martin Chuzzlewit (1994), Pride and Prejudice (1995) and Our Mutual Friend (1998).Wearing’s constant battles with BBC bosses over budgets and his belief that its director general John Birt’s focus groups and “flow chart” management style stifled creativity led him to resign in 1998. The following year he became an executive producer with Irish Screen, making the films Human Traffic (1999), and When the Sky Falls (2000).He received Bafta’s Alan Clarke award in 1997 and the Royal Television Society’s Cyril Bennett judges’ award a year later.Wearing’s 1965 marriage to Jean Ramsey ended in divorce. Their elder daughter Catherine, a television drama producer, died in 2007. Wearing is survived by Sadie, their other daughter, and Ella and Benjamin, the children from his subsequent relationship with Karen Loader.• Michael Howard Wearing, producer, born 12 March 1939; died 5 May 2017