Thousands of ceramic poppies spill dramatically from a tiny window in Britain’s most northerly cathedral to mark the centenary of a first world war naval battle in which more than 8,500 sailors died.If the poppies look familiar, it’s probably because you saw the vast Blood Swept Lands and Seas of Red installation at the Tower of London in 2014, for which 888,246 ceramic poppies were planted to mark those who died in the war. Jutland gave the British navy a tremendous kick in the pantsNick Jellicoe And that was supposed to be it for the poppies; but due to the artwork’s remarkable popularity – more than 5 million people are believed to have seen the Tower installation – the prime minister announced that the poppies would go on tour, hence their arrival in Kirkwall, Orkney, on a blue-skied but bitterly cold April day.The installation, Weeping Window, will help commemorate the 100th anniversary of the battle of Jutland, the biggest naval engagement of the first world war. The leader of the British grand fleet, which sailed from Scapa Flow in Orkney to battle in horrendous conditions off the coast of Denmark’s Jutland peninsula, was Admiral Sir John Jellicoe. His grandson Nick Jellicoe was at St Magnus Cathedral on Friday to see the poppies being unveiled.“You look at something like this and you go back to what it really means,” he said. “Souls passed away and there were many on the day … it was 10%.”More than 6,000 Royal Navy and 2,500 German sailors were killed in the battle, which began on 31 May 1916.Jellicoe said he was pleased to see Jutland being commemorated in so many places, not just in the UK, but Denmark and Germany too. “It was a Victorian/Edwardian navy trying to fight with modern weapons but old rules,” he said. “If nothing else Jutland gave the British navy a tremendous kick in the pants. There was a real effort in the decades that followed to reform just about everything.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A woman photographs the sculpture, made of ceramic poppies. Photograph: Danny Lawson/PARoyalty and political leaders will take part in the official centenary commemorations on the 100th anniversary of the start of the battle.The Orkney Islands council convenor Steven Heddle said they were proud to have the poppies. “It is the first time they have been seen in Scotland, which is a great honour for us and reflects the significance of the Battle of Jutland commemorations.“We still have the wrecks of the German fleet sitting on the bottom of Scapa Flow … Jutland is not something that is just being remembered 100 years on, it’s steeped in the history of the place.”About 70 volunteers have come forward to look after the installation and help with tours. “We’re generally quite reserved people but there has been a great deal of enthusiasm,” said Heddle.The men behind the poppies are the ceramic artist Paul Cummins and theatre designer Tom Piper. “I just think it is really good how they look different in each location,” said Cummins. “It resonates particularly here because they’re an island, they lose people at sea quite a lot especially with trawlers, so there is a connection with everyone … it resonates then and now.”Piper agreed: “Each location has been so different but the public response has been amazing, you can feel already that people appreciate it being here.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The poppies’ original installation at the Tower of London is believed to have been seen by more than 5 million people. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianThe tour is organised by the centenary art commission 14-18 Now and funded by the Clore Duffield Foundation, Susie Sainsbury’s Backstage Trust and the government, which announced an extra £2.5m for the project in the last spending review.“Now they have become properly works of art it has become so much more expensive to do anything,” said Piper.Orkney is roughly the halfway point of the tour. Weeping Window will travel to Perth and Caernarfon castle, while another poppy installation, Wave, will be taken to Lincoln Castle.Venues for 2017 will be announced later in the year. In 2018 the poppies will be permanently held by the Imperial War Museums.• Weeping Window will be at St Magnus Cathedral, Kirkwall, until 12 June.