The Guido Fawkes website is to launch an environment section in a redesign that will also introduce separate channels for technology and media.Its founder, Paul Staines, said that he wanted the site to become “more of a news website”, adding that it was dropping the word “blog” from its masthead. The site launched in September 2004 as “Guido Fawkes blog of plots, rumours and conspiracy”. It has since gained a high profile, claiming to have helped bring down MPs including Tim Yeo, David Ruffley and Brooks Newmark.Staines told the Guardian: “The site has had a redesign that we are going to switch on at midday [on Thursday], hopefully. We have broken out into different channels: media, and tech and we are doing environment, green and energy issues.“Most people don’t want to read about those but there is quite a cross-over with politics. If you see what is happening in the States with tech becoming a major consumer and political issue, what with all of the interest in surveillance and other things. There are also quite a lot of advertisers.“I would also like to have a go at all the Whitehall cock-ups. They have got better, but with Universal Credit – for example – they tried to do that on the cheap and it has gone wrong.“I am very nervous about moving away from the blog concept but we are more of a news website now. We’ve dropped the term ‘blog’ from the masthead.”He said that the separate environment section was prompted partly by the rising profile of the Green party.“We’re thinking it’s going to be called Gaia Fawkes. It’ll cover energy and other issues, plus the Green party, which I think will be a big thing in the next few months.“We want energy companies to be able to place their corporate responsibility advertising with us without fear. They know we have got that Westminster audience.“It will be the same approach as we have to politics: snarky and a bit of fun. It will approach big issues in a middle-brow tabloid way, it will be accessible. When something sexy comes along, we will cover the big issues.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Techno Guido: not aimed at competing with industry or gadget sites Photograph: PRThe Guido Fawkes site has been tentatively covering technology issues under the “Techno Guido” tag since last April, and Staines said its new channel will be aimed at a broad audience. “On the tech side, the Register has got uppity with us, but that site is written for the industry and we are writing for people who aren’t primarily coming to the site for tech. We are not going to try to compete with TechCrunch etc because we can’t hope to get our hands on the latest gadgets first,” he added.“We’re trying to do the tech-politics and tech-retail spaces.“We have hired Jeremy Wilson, who worked for the Kernel. That site was a good laugh. [Its founder] Milo [Yiannopoulos] is great at causing a storm and is a friend of ours but it was ridiculously antagonistic and negative and got everyone’s backs up. I don’t think we will be exactly like that.”