The corporate sustainability movement needs many things – scale, acceleration, a sense of urgency, science-based targets and goals – but one thing it surely does not need is another buzzword. Yet that is what "natural capital" is at risk of becoming.At the GreenBiz Forum last month in Arizona, which attracted nearly 600 sustainability professionals, talk of natural capital was everywhere. The Nature Conservancy and the Corporate Eco Forum unveiled the Natural Capital Business Hub, which aims to "help companies uncover opportunities to enhance their bottom lines by integrating the value of natural capital into their strategy, operations, accounting and reporting." Companies identified as Natural Capital Leaders – including Kimberly Clark, Freeport McMoran and Adobe – were praised.So what, exactly, is natural capital? And why should companies care? Will accounting for natural capital drive meaningful change – or will it merely consume time and energy, occupy panelists at sustainability conferences and generate consulting fees?Defining natural capital is relatively easy. "It's the products and services that nature provides to business," explains Libby Bernick, a senior vice president at Trucost, a consultancy that has popularized the idea. Forests, fisheries, water, soil, clean air, the ability of the atmosphere and the oceans to absorb CO2, minerals, biodiversity, pollination, even scenic landscapes upon which tourism may depend: all these are forms of natural capital. The problem, as some see it, is that businesses and individuals use natural capital without paying for it. As Pavan Sukdev, a former banker who helped spread the idea, likes to say: "We use nature because it's valuable, but we lose it because it's free." It's a profound statement. Catchy, too.But putting a price on nature's products and services and then using those valuations to actually do something useful – well, that's when things get fuzzy. In the GreenBiz Group's 2014 State of Green Business Report, Trucost poses a question: "If a company actually had to pay for its impacts on natural capital, what would it cost, and how would that affect the company's profitability?" Fuzzy pricingAfter crunching data from the world's largest 4,600 companies, an answer emerges: "If companies had to pay their fair share for their environmental impacts, their entire profits would have been wiped out." Trucost CEO Richard Mattison has estimated that the environmental impact of business – carbon emissions, land use, water use, air pollution and the like – on what he calls "our finite stock of natural capital" costs the global economy a whopping $7.3tn per year.Oh, really? The calculation depends on setting prices for more than 70 forms of natural capital, Bernick told me. These prices are largely based on academic studies, which may or may not reflect real-world prices. Carbon emissions, for example, are priced at approximately $120 a ton by Trucost. But companies that set internal carbon prices, including Disney and Microsoft, price those at half of that or less. And the Obama administration recently calculated "social costs" (meaning the impact to society) of carbon emissions at about $37 a ton, an estimate that has been supported by big environmental groups. Meanwhile, on the world's biggest carbon market, the admittedly flawed EU emissions trading scheme, carbon emissions trade for roughly $10 a ton. That's a long way from $120.Then there's the claim that stock of natural capital is finite. This, too, doesn't stand up to scrutiny. In the 19th century, guano – the excrement of sea birds and cave-dwelling bats – was so valued as fertilizer that nations went to war over guano deposits off the coast of Peru. Guano was natural capital, and presumably quite valuable, until the German chemists Fritz Haber and Carl Bosch invented a process to produce synthetic ammonia, the main ingredient in chemical fertilizers. Likewise, whale oil was burned for lighting until kerosene and electricity came along. The whale population may have been finite, but the ability of people to invent new things is not, as Ramez Naam argues in his book, The Infinite Resource: The Power of Ideas on a Finite Planet. Even as vital a resource as fresh water isn't finite: We can make more with desalination. And we will need less if scientists succeed in breeding drought-resistant crops. The world is dynamic, not static, thank goodness. On the corporate level, natural capital takes the form of an exercise known as "environmental profit and loss accounting", which requires measuring the environmental impacts of the firm, and perhaps its supply chain as well, and then expressing them in monetary terms. To what end, you ask? Kering, a collection of luxury and sport brands that include Gucci, Saint Laurent, Brioni and Puma, and an early adopter of the idea, says its EP-and-L "serves as tool for deeper understanding and better decision-making" in three ways: it helps direct sustainability investments to places where they matter most, it provides an early warning of emerging risks and it enables greater transparency. Led by its PUMA unit, Kering is rolling out EP-and-L analyses across its business units to be published … in 2016. The company has been talking about its EP-and-L since 2011, a year of after Puma pioneered the idea, and learned that its biggest impacts were created by its raw materials, notably leather – hardly an eye-opening discovery. But at least Trucost and Kering take the idea of natural capital seriously enough to try to attach dollar values to corporate impacts, By contrast, the Natural Capital Business Hub defines the concept so loosely that it lists examples including voluntary tree-planting projects by Marriott and Enterprise, HanesBrand decision to blend flax fibers into its cotton socks (which reduces pressures on water) and a Lockheed Martin initiative to reduce electronic waste. Worthwhile these may be, but if they are examples of valuing natural capital, the concept is so broad that it risks becoming meaningless. The business caseThe Nature Conservancy and its CEO Mark Tercek have seized on the story of natural capital to make a pragmatic argument to business – that the global economy depends on the preservation of natural resources and, therefore, smart companies will get behind the environmental movement. Traditionally, conservationists have argued that we must protect nature from people; Tercek and his colleagues at the conservancy say we need to protect nature for people. In his 2013 book, Nature's Fortune: How Business and Society Thrive by Investing in Nature, Tercek, a former Goldman Sachs banker, argues that concepts such as maximizing returns, investing in your assets, managing your risks, diversifying and promoting innovation, in the common parlance of business, can be usefully applied to nature.A three-year-old partnership between The Nature Conservancy and Dow Chemical demonstrates how valuing natural capital can benefit business and the environment. At a big Dow facility in south Texas, the company, with the help of environmental scientists, has figured out that investing in natural resources such as marshes and mangroves can deliver environmental and financial benefits that are equal to or better than those generated by conventional pollution controls."It's hard for anyone to get excited about a scrubber," Tercek explained at the GreenBiz event. "Now, in lieu of those scrubbers, we'll do massive reforestation." Trees deliver a range of ancillary benefits, even as they satisfy Dow's compliance obligations, he noted: "Houston's a very nice city but let's face it, they can use more trees."The idea that so-called "green infrastructure" can replace engineered "gray infrastructure" at a lower cost is an idea that any business executive can warm up to. It's the most practical way to show how accounting for natural capital can make a difference.According to Trucost's Libby Bernick, more than 200 companies now account for their use of natural capital in some way. They include Disney and Microsoft, which attach a "shadow price" to their carbon emissions; Colgate Palmolive and EcoLab, which are trying to measure the true cost of water; and Interface, which puts a price on the natural capital consumed by its carpet tiles. All that knowledge, she says, will help companies to think long-term and make smarter decisions by taking environmental risks and opportunities into account. That, at least, is the optimistic view.But it's also possible that natural capital will turn out to be little more than another way of talking about protecting the environment, "the latest advance in corporate messaging without necessarily a corresponding advance in anything else," in the words of GreenBiz founder Joel Makower. The burden is on the proponents of natural capital to show that it can make a real difference, not merely a rhetorical one. Otherwise a lot of well-meaning people will end up spending a lot of time analyzing a lot of numbers to no good end, and that would be unfortunate. After all, the one resource that is truly finite is our time.