When we asked our readers to share their Star Trek related photos and memories, we had no idea what would happen. The stories below are the kind of thing that happened.1) Captain Kamal v the KlingonsCaptain Kamal helps Dr McCoy outwit dastardly Klingons.In 1992 I was lucky enough to Captain the Enterprise with the help of Blue Screen magic at a Universal Studios Florida attraction. As a 13 year old StarTrek fan with Romulan Warbird models in his room, this was my dream come true. I got to defeat some rouge Klingons and had the whole experience recorded onto video for posterity, in the days before smartphones. I am still awaiting my next assignment on the Enterprise.Sent via Guardian Witness By guardianUser4008284  8 September 2016, 22:34 2) The ‘TrekBabes’ in Milton KeynesMe and my fellow 'TrekBabes' at Milton Keynes CollectormaniaWe are the USSR TyreIron (don't ask), a crew of ladies who crop up at conventions once or twice a year. Or, to put it another way, this is our equivalent of going to Marbs with the girls. We're all scifi fans of various forms but Star Trek is one of the things that truly unifies us. I don't even think any of us prefer the Original Series - there's a long-abiding passion for Deep Space Nine and at least two of us have inappropriate crushes on Gul Dukat..!Star Trek is a hope for a better future, one led by reason and kindness and doing the right thing. We all hope for the same thing, in our way. And at conventions we get together, we laugh, we have met a surprisingly large amount of the casts of various Treks. One of the common themes throughout all of the shows and films is the idea of found family, a crew that have come together and become a family. I think we're a bit like that too.On the weekend of this photo we danced with Michael Dorn at an afterparty, too. Well done us.(Oh, and I'm the one in gold.)Sent via Guardian Witness By hathycol  8 September 2016, 15:40 3) KHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAN!Kirk v Khan montage Vintage comic and retro figures housed in a modern frame. Makes me smile and reminds me not to act my age.Sent via Guardian Witness By Craig Ferguson  8 September 2016, 15:35 4) ‘As I’ve grown older, Star Trek has stayed with me’Meeting childhood hero Nana Visitor (DS9's Major Kira)I probably watched my first Star Trek episode in the womb. My parents are huge Star Trek fans and I grew up watching TNG, DS9 and the unfairly maligned Voyager. At primary school in Ireland in the 90s, I would race home to finish my homework by 5pm so I could watch reruns of old seasons, and had special dispensation to stay up late when new episodes were airing.I loved reading books like the Star Trek Encyclopedia cover to cover, and would frequently inflict many facts about the show on kindly babysitters. I was delighted to be taken into Dublin to meet Andrew J Robinson (Garak) at Forbidden Planet, where he was signing copies of the excellent book he'd written about his character, A Stitch in Time.My proudest childhood achievement was being a Star Letter in a 2001 edition of Star Trek Monthly, where I admonished the adult, and to my mind, excessively grumpy readers who seemed to only write in to criticise Enterprise every week. I reminded them that other Star Trek shows had also got off to a rocky start and they should have a little patience. In retrospect, my optimism didn't really pay off, but the show did always teach me to try and see the best in things.As I've grown older, Star Trek has stayed with me. I've gone back to discover the wonders of the original series, from Nichelle Nichols' groundbreaking portrayal of Uhura to Kirk & Spock and the beginning of slash fanfiction (even Gene Roddenberry shipped it!). I've introduced it to others, having just watched the entirety of DS9 with my best friend, who missed out as a kid.I've been lucky enough to meet some of the casts of the show, particularly the actresses who played my formative heroines, Terry Farrell (Dax), Kate Mulgrew (Janeway), and Nana Visitor (Kira, pictured). All of them have been wonderful, fascinating women, who seem to understand something of the impact they've had.In spite of previous disappointments, I have very high hopes for Discovery. It's hard to think of a better choice for showrunner than Bryan Fuller, given his experience on and off the show, and I think we could be in for something really special.Star Trek was even there on my wedding day. As my parents walked me down the aisle to marry my wife (my dad wearing a very fetching tie featuring the first four Captains), my processional music was the opening of the TNG theme, with Patrick Stewart's beautiful voiceover: 'These are the voyages of the starship Enterprise..'Sent via Guardian Witness By amywoodworth  8 September 2016, 16:11 5) ‘It’s come to embody a positive version of what humanity could be’2012 London Destination Star TrekWhen I met my American husband (via a Private Eye blind date in 1987), one of the things we talked about was our shared love of Star Trek. Though I didn't analyse it at the time, looking back on that evening it was a clue that we also shared the Gene Roddenberry vision of humankind. That vision privileged science and rationality (tempered by justice and kindness), the drive to explore and discover but not harm other cultures (Prime Directive rules apply) and it provided an unusual TV forum in which to act out dramas about identity and society. The crew of the Enterprise was ethnically diverse and had an African-American woman in an important role - for viewers in the US and the UK this was something novel, even before we got to the first interracial kiss. The Next Generation would go on to develop and enrich the themes articulated in the original series.Reader, I married him. Jim (not Kirk, but still), and I married in 1990. Our daughter, now 20, is a talented Cosplayer in anime and Marvel related material, but she's also a Star Trek fan, having been exposed to the shows at a young age. We are currently working our way through Voyager once more. We will be at Destination Star Trek Europe in Birmingham next month, and my father-in-law will fly over from Connecticut to join us. Costumes have been purchased...My brief photo shoot with William Shatner meant a huge amount to me and I meant it when I told him it was a real honour to meet him. He kindly said the same to me. Everyone who has ever worked on Star Trek series or films but the actors especially, have come to embody a positive version of what humanity could be. The actors focus the enormous body of emotions that wash around the franchise. Yes, I know there's an enormous body of business/money involved too. Nonetheless, I can't think of a better antidote than the Star Trek universe vision to the post-truth, build-a-wall, repel the outsider, repress the vulnerable political landscape we are living in today. We need more 'Roddenberries'.Sent via Guardian Witness By PennyEwlesBergeron  9 September 2016, 9:34 