Ryan Adams has talked about the night he cracked on stage when a concertgoer heckled him by calling for him to sing Bryan Adams’s Summer of ’69, saying the night “was the beginning of who I am today. All of the humour and self-deflection I would ever learn came from that night. I am now grateful for it.”Writing in the New York Times, the singer-songwriter remembered the gig, at Nashville’s Ryman Auditorium in October 2002, when his acoustic performance was interrupted over and over again by one person, culminating in them shouting for Summer of ’69 during an a cappella performance of the song Bartering Lines with Gillian Welch and David Rawlings.“I finally had enough and piped up: ‘Who is it? Who is shouting? Tell me who it is!’” Adams wrote. “I was so angry. I felt humiliated.” Other audience members identified the heckler, and Adams approached him. “I said, ‘Hey man, if you were trying to ruin the show you succeeded, but I need to try and finish this – it’s my job.’ I pulled out two $20 bills and said: ‘Here is your money, please take a taxi and leave here. Go home and take an aspirin. Please. Leave.’”However, he wrote, “A journalist in Nashville had taken the facts of that night and written a tale of madness. It said, more or less, ‘Ryan Adams throws out fan for requesting Summer of ’69.’ I was now a joke. All of my hard work was lost in a story picked up by the Associated Press. I soon became an attraction for people who wanted to pay money to hurl insults at someone. They wanted to yell that song like it was some magical power that would transform me into a golem.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The incident certainly became famous, with the Tennessean newspaper’s account travelling around the world, and affecting Adams deeply. In 2006, he told Spin magazine: “I had to go into therapy because of the whole Bryan Adams Summer of ’69 thing.” He also described his audience as “a bunch of cocks” who “come to my shows just to provoke me”.In the wake of the incident, he described the Ryman – famed as the former home of the Grand Ole Opry concert, and one of country music’s most sacred venues – as “a shithole … that has the balls to charge you for security when you play there but if some college kid, and I mean SOUTHERN college kid, decides to get wasted and scream through seven songs of a solo acoustic performance, they couldn’t give a fuck”. He also said, back then, that Bryan Adams “is quite embarrassing in general”.He’s mellowed towards his Canadian near-namesake now. The pair share a birthday, and he wrote in the NYT that he emails the other Adams every year to wish him happy birthday. Ryan Adams had in fact occasionally played Summer ’of 69 even before the 2002 incident, and has done so since, including one performance of it at the Ryman in April 2015. That said, he insisted in the Times that he would have shouted for a different Bryan Adams song had he been the heckler: Run to You. “That song is my jam.”