In her review of Cymbeline (12 December), Lyn Gardner refers to the heroine as Innogen, and states that the more common use of Imogen is a misspelling. This theory is based on a 1611 diary entry after a performance attended by Simon Forman, who died four days later in his 59th year. The only source we have for the text is the 1623 First Folio, where “Imogen” is printed 38 times and the editors, Heminge and Condell, would have been around at the time of that performance. So either we accept their inside knowledge, or one old man’s hearing and possibly shaky handwriting. I know which I prefer.Christine OzanneLondon• In trying to make a wider point about the nation state and globalisation and the COP 21 climate talks, you bracket the nationalism of Marine Le Pen, Donald Trump and Nicola Sturgeon as “peddling one form of nationalism or another” (Editorial, 14 December). You really don’t get it. Nationalism as promulgated by the SNP is the actual antithesis of Le Pen and the daft and incoherent utterings of Donald Trump. It is open, liberal and welcoming of refugees. Will your next editorial castigate Irish nationalism and urge the Irish Republic to return to the UK?Emeritus professor Bob OsborneBelfast• If George Osborne would like to save a bit more from the benefit bill, may I suggest that he looks at the annual Christmas Box of £10 given to all pensioners at this time of year, which appeared in my bank account last week. With over 12 million, and rising, beneficiaries of this – ever decreasing in value – so slightly derisory sum, he could save the UK £120m a year and more – money that could be used to help those who need it most. I wouldn’t miss it and I’m sure the majority of us pensioners wouldn’t either.Rob ParrishStarcross, Devon• So the atmosphere at the end of the Paris climate talks (Editorial, 15 December) was electric. Let’s hope it was renewable.Stephen DaviesSandbach, Cheshire• Celandines in flower – and have been since last Thursday… (Letters, passim).Graham StocksQuorn, Leicestershire• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com