Blair Braverman was born in California, but it wasn’t long before life took her to icier climes. She first moved to Norway with her parents when she was 10, and spent a year in school there. At 18, she moved from California to Norway to study dog mushing. After she appeared on This American Life, her dog mushing experiences now form part of a book, Welcome to the Goddamn Ice Cube, out this week in the US.“I learned to grab the dogs by the ruff and yank their strong bodies toward me, pin their hips between my knees so they couldn’t get away,” Braverman writes. “If my hands were numb from touching the frozen metal clasps on the gangline, I could slip my bare hands into the soft pockets of the dogs’ armpits, until the feeling seeped back into my fingers.”Currently splitting her time between writing and dogsledding, Braverman half-jokes that all her writing money goes to pay for dog food. She lives in Mountain, Wisconsin, where she founded Mountain Dogs Racing, a long-distance dogsledding team, and she is currently training for the Iditarod – the world’s most famous sled race. Instagram snapshots: dog gone – the Iditarod sled race, Alaska Braverman recently entered her first qualifying race, a 240-mile course known as the “UP 200”, in Marquette, Michigan. She didn’t finish because after 170 miles she came across another musher on the trail, and she stopped and stayed with her. The other musher was hypothermic, and by the time help came, Braverman’s dogs were too cold to continue. (She ended up being nominated for the Iditarod anyway because of her generosity.)On the cover of Braverman’s book there is a quote from the writer Adrian Nicole Leblanc, describing it as “a meditation on the frontiers of feminism”. For her part, Braverman says she wasn’t consciously shaping the book around feminist ideas, but feminism ended up being a major part of the book anyway. “The book was me trying to make sense as much as possible of all of the gender dynamics that had been playing out around me in these very isolated places,” she says. “I think any time you look at gender very closely it is feminist, because the default is to not look at it.” Braverman hopes that the book will give male readers a glimpse into experiences that are otherwise invisible to them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Being with dogs and dogsledding makes writing feel fake in a way that’s a great comfort to me.’ Photograph: Christina Bodznick/AuthorOne of those experiences, which Braverman already documented in an article for the online longform magazine the Atavist, was as much about consent as it was about ice and dogs. While she was working as a dog musher on the glacier in Alaska, a fellow musher became Braverman’s boyfriend, wooing her with handwritten notes. After one summer, they broke up, but continued working together. One night, he slipped into her tent claiming he was sad and wanted a hug, but once he was inside, he pulled out a condom. “I told him I didn’t want to, and he told me yes, I did, he could tell,” Braverman writes. “When I clenched my knees together he shoved them apart. ‘Shh,’ he whispered as I squirmed, no place to pull away between his body and the tent wall. ‘We don’t want everyone to hear us.’”Braverman began writing the book during her MFA program in nonfiction writing at the University of Iowa. It took her four years to finish. She describes the process as being much harder than anything she had ever done: “You could drop me in the wilderness in -20C (-4F), and I would have to find my way out,” she says. “And that would be less difficult to me than if you told me right now that I had to read the whole book over again.” She initially left a lot of painful experiences out of the manuscript, but they crept back in because “my whole book is things that I wanted to avoid but that I can’t avoid”. That took its toll. When Braverman was revising a passage about Alaska, she fell into a deep depression. She says she had the reaction when she was writing about it that she should have had when she was living those events.She was also so plagued by self-doubt during the writing process that she began to feel she was crazy, and at times didn’t trust her own thoughts. “Part of this book was about going back and saying ‘my experiences were real’ until I began to believe myself,” she says. “It is much easier to write about being buried in an ice cave than about sexual violence.”As she began to show people her work, it elicited strong responses. Not all of them were satisfying; Braverman also heard from people who knew her ex-boyfriend who said, “He wouldn’t do that. You’re lying.” Internet commenters, reading the piece at the Atavist, seemed to focus on the dogs at the expense of the rape.While researching trauma for the book, Braverman discovered that one of the recognized steps in handling such experiences is turning them into a story, telling that story, and then being believed. And she remembers thinking: “I didn’t realize that not being believed would be its own trauma.”Now that the book is on store shelves, Braverman says she’s counting on a new litter of puppies to keep her mood on an even keel. “Being with dogs and dogsledding makes writing feel fake in a way that’s a great comfort to me,” she says. “It will be really tremendous for my mental health to sit in a pile of puppies during the book’s release. I truly feel that they might save me.”