A pristine slice of New Zealand coastline may soon be safe in public hands if “head dreamer” Duane Major gets his wish and crowdfunds the NZ$2m (£900,000) needed to buy it.Just before Christmas a golden stretch of beach in Abel Tasman national park came up for sale for NZ$2m. If bought privately, public access to the turquoise waters and unspoilt native bush could have been restricted.Little blue penguins from Australia 'invaded' New Zealand The property features three buildings, 800 metres of beach and seven hectares of land.Major and brother-in-law Adam Gard’ner were moaning the possibility of New Zealanders losing access to the South Island beach over Christmas lunch.“We thought: put your money where your mouth is,” Major said.“We wanted New Zealanders to come out swinging and stand up for their values and their ability to believe in themselves and say ‘we can do this, we can save this beach’.” The two friends set up a Givealittle webpage three weeks ago to try and raise the funds to purchase the land, which if successful they would gift to the Department of Conservation or a “suitable trust” to ensure public access. They pledged $1,000 each to get things going. Donations on Tuesday totalled NZ$1.4m from more than 22,000 supporters. The campaign has five days left to raise the remaining $600,000.“This is an opportunity for New Zealanders to recognise this action as a statement about the way we want these special little places looked after, about the way we want to live and raise our children in this country. We can afford it, we are not that poor. We can’t afford not to,” he said.Estate agent Glenn Dick, who is managing the sale of the beach, said the fundraiser had generated “an extraordinary response from New Zealanders”.“When I first heard of their scheme I thought it was very, very optimistic. We have never had something like this happen before. But good on them – they are proving everyone wrong and it feels like the whole of New Zealand is behind them. ”In the last three weeks the Givealittle page has received thousands of donations, as well as garnering widespread national media attention and support.As well as thousands of small donations from Kiwis at home and abroad, New Zealand companies have gifted sums of up to NZ$20,000. Although there have been calls for the government to pitch in the remaining amount, Major is confident the beach can be purchased for New Zealanders by New Zealanders – without government help. “We don’t want this to get political, we don’t want to fight it out with big business, we want to be able to succeed as everyday people. To be able to achieve something like this would be so empowering for the average Kiwi.”On Tuesday, businessman and entrepreneur Gareth Morgan offered to stump up the remaining $600,000 – but on the condition he would retain private access to a part of the beach during his lifetime, and it would only go into public hands after his death.“We’re not going to take Morgan up on his offer,” says Major.cara (@sleepymurs)Gareth Morgan trying to buy Abel Tasman for his "own private benefit" the campaign was started so the beach could be used by the public?February 9, 2016“Thanks but no thanks. We have five days left to raise the money, but I want to wake up tomorrow morning and be able to get that beach. We can do it, I know we can.”Conservationist Dr GerryMcSweeny, a member of The Nature Heritage Fund and a Forest and Bird Conservation Ambassador, told TVNZnews tonight that he believed the price of NZ$2m for the beach was “excessive”, as the site was at risk of coastal erosion. TVNZ reports that in 2008 the beach was purchased by the current owner for NZ$1.925m. In 2014 the land was valued at NZ$1.58m.