How John Oliver started a revolution in US TV's political satire Two years after going it alone from The Daily Show, satirist John Oliver may not be Britain’s biggest export to America (that’s James Corden, for now), but he’s certainly its sharpest and funniest. This apparently entitles him to no special privileges from HBO, which broadcasts his current-affairs show Last Week Tonight. “I’m sitting in a windowless room with two gigantic pictures of [The Jinx’s villain] Robert Durst on the wall,” he explains on the phone from New York. “As I’m talking to you, his beady eyes are burrowing into my face. Perhaps Robert Durst will soon be in a windowless room with two pictures of me on the wall. But I can’t stress this enough: I did not murder three people.”The Guide has set Oliver a task: to explain aspects of modern America to Britain, and vice versa. It’s one he sets about with relish, but also with a caveat. “I’ve been here a decade so I’m institutionalised. My bafflement index is much lower than it used to be. This all kind of makes sense to me now.”Last Week Tonight With John Oliver      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. Photograph: Publicity Image“It’s the kind of inexplicable success which only America seems able to produce. Our show doesn’t have any remotely appealing ingredients and its popularity cannot be justified. People feel about my show the same way I feel about watching Kiss: why is this popular? It doesn’t make any sense. Maybe that makes me the comedy Gene Simmons, but at least he has the dignity to disguise his natural appearance. I guess Brits would enjoy the self-deprecation. Most British people instinctively know they are not as good as people think they are. In America you’re forced to confront that on a daily basis: someone will say something is really great, and you then have to explain why it’s not as great as they think it is. We’ve got a poster for the show up in Times Square, in a sea of quotes for movies you know are total shit – ‘The greatest thing you’ll ever see’; ‘A luminescent performance from Johnny Knoxville’, that kind of thing – our poster says: ‘Makes people dumb’. I don’t disagree with that.”Ted Cruz      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   US Senator Ted Cruz. Photograph: Joshua Roberts/Reuters“Now that is a very hard thing to explain. Born in Canada, yet every beat of his heart is that of a Texan. Why is he so popular when you consider the things that come out of his mouth? All I can do is reassure British people: don’t worry, he is not going to be president. I wouldn’t waste too much time worrying about what Ted Cruz is, where he came from or how this has happened. I don’t think there’ll be much residual effect from his behaviour outside Texas state borders. He is not going to be the nominee. Iowa has a distinguished history of not picking the candidate who becomes the nominee. That’s why we do not have a President Mike Huckabee right now. Don’t put too much emphasis on what the people of Iowa think.”Turducken      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A chicken, oblivious to the oncoming turduckening. Photograph: National Geographic Image Collec/Alamy“The backbone of American cuisine is that it is either absolutely disgusting or the most delicious thing you’ve ever eaten. I’d heard about turducken and I was very curious: eating it felt like a high-end version of being in I’m A Celebrity. It’s a chicken stuffed inside a duck, stuffed inside a turkey, then baked or roasted. I wanted to hate it, but it’s actually really tasty: three nice bits of meat welded together. You can serve it with mashed potatoes, sweet potatoes, but you don’t remember what you had with a turducken. It’s the preeminent force on the plate, and you’ve already demonstrated your dominance over the animal kingdom by making Russian nesting dolls out of three animals and eating them. You couldn’t be further on top of the food chain than that. It evokes the same level of awe as you’d have about America putting someone on the moon. It’s not about why they did it, it’s the fact that they did it at all.”US elections      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail. Photograph: John Locher/AP“American elections are so spectacular and go on so long that almost every part of it is fascinating, especially to a British outsider. The personalities are just the start. They’re almost in three-year campaign cycles now; it’s not going to take much for America to be in a permanent state of election. It costs you a billion dollars to lose that election, so you’re going to have to spend a billion dollars to not become president of the United States. Personally, I’d like to vote. I’m experiencing taxation without representation, which they did not enjoy when we did it to them. I’ve lived here for a decade, but I’m not able to vote unless I’m willing to commit voter fraud. I think it’s touch and go but it’s probably not worth it. We’re on the record here, after all. But if I could get dual citizenship, I’d be interested in that. It does feel like my home now.”Our Lady of Perpetual Exemption  An ad for Oliver’s bogus church: Our Lady of Perpetual Exemption. Photograph: Publicity image“In the last series, we set up a church [to expose televangelists and the ease of avoiding tax through establishing a religious organisation]. It took a lot of legal advice and months of gathering correspondence with one pastor. In terms of the UK, I’m not sure what the Inland Revenue’s position on churches is. The IRS is very much of the opinion that all churches, whatever their form, operate tax free. How would I make sense of what we achieved? We achieved nothing! We achieved $70,000 in single [donations], a four-foot wooden penis and five vials of human sperm. Although a lot of people would consider that a decent year’s work, I suppose. It’s a pretty impressive room full of tat.”Jeremy Corbyn      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn delivers his keynote speech at the 2015 party conference. Photograph: Facundo Arrizabalaga/EPA“Calling him the ‘British Bernie Sanders’ would be very reductive, very simplistic and probably the best way to explain him to Americans, while being wildly inaccurate. If you try to explain the differences, then you’re into the parliamentary system and you’ve lost them. For Americans, it’s all about the prime minister, whether or not he stuck a dick in a pig’s mouth. Over here, people hoped that story was true. I did. Either way, it seems entirely plausible, which makes whether or not it’s true kind of irrelevant. When Cameron came over here, he ate a hotdog in a stupid manner and completely lost any level of authority he might have had. He held it like it was a china cup of tea. That’s not how you attack a hotdog. As for Corbyn and Sanders, I think we’ll have to wait and see whether being principled actually gets you anywhere. I don’t think you can doubt the tenacity of their beliefs. But can you translate that into power?”The Milk Tray Man      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   New Milk Tray Man Patrick McBride. Photograph: Cadbury/PA“They’ve made a fireman the new Milk Tray Man? I didn’t know that. How would you explain him? I guess he’s the connective tissue between James Bond and [Russ Abbot character] Basildon Bond. They understand James Bond in America: very handsome man doing brave things to save us all. Well, imagine that, except he’s less attractive, has lower muscle mass and is just delivering mid-range chocolates to sleeping women in a way that definitely blurs the boundaries between stalking and breaking and entering. There’s a magnificent melancholy about him, this shadowy figure performing an act of unrequited love. And it’s not even that great an act of love. Are they from him or is it on behalf of someone else? No one knows. All you know is, that person isn’t sending a very strong message, otherwise it would have been a pyramid of Ferrero Rocher. Although Ferrero Rocher wouldn’t allow that anonymity because it would clearly be from an ambassador or, at the very least, someone with access to the embassy.”Brexit      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steve Bell’s take on Brexit. Illustration: Steve Bell“You’ve got to go back a long way to even start making sense of this. Initially, you’re having to explain what Europe is, the fact that there are different countries in it, and that some of them are part of this union. At which point, you’ll have to go right back to the start again and explain it all in more detail. They have absolutely no working knowledge of what the EU actually is over here. The quickest way to explain it would be that British people feel aloof about everything including the continent of Europe. There is no interest whatsoever in the intricacies of European politics over here. I think it’s fascinating. We did a piece on the Scottish referendum but even there you’re working with contained examples of things they understand. They understand Braveheart: the fact that an Australian man once painted his face blue, wore a skirt and screamed at an Englishman wearing a crown. They have a fundamental working knowledge of the tension in that relationship.”Pyjamas on the school run      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An early start to the school run. Photograph: Alamy“The right to wear pyjamas on the school run, like those parents in Darlington? You’re just describing ‘freedom’ to an American here. Just as they defend their right to bear arms, they [would] defend their right to wear pyjamas. They’re not going to have some town council or school governor tell them they can’t wear rabbit slippers to drop their kids off at school. That’s not what this country fought a revolution for. The very reason they kicked the British out was so that, one day, they could wear pyjamas on the school run, and in doing so feel the full force of freedom. They’re not hearing the specifics, they’re just hearing: are you free or not? If you’re not being allowed to wear pyjamas to drop your kids off, you’re basically in a Stalinist gulag.”Piers Morgan      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Piers Morgan at the opening of an envelope, yesterday. Photograph: REX/Shutterstock“I don’t know how you explain Piers Morgan back to Americans now. I don’t think he ever intended for America to be his home, and there’s a difference between criticising the place you have come to call home and the place you have come to live in for a bit. Ideally, on the Venn diagram between myself and Piers there would be no overlap whatsoever, on either a personal or professional level. If we could be two non-interlocking circles I’d be fine with that. Any comparison with him makes me want to challenge you to a duel.”Last Week Tonight With John Oliver airs Monday 29 February, 10.10pm, Sky Atlantic