This is a house in Kuwait. It belongs to the brother of an ex-Guantánamo Bay detainee. I’m not going to say who he was. The architecture of the room struck me as incredibly confining. The contrast between the bare walls and the ornate carpet was striking, plus the innocent child’s plaything – the slide – has been put right up against the wall in an uncomfortable way. Then there’s the basketball hoop in red, white and blue – an American presence in this country, in this person’s life.The idyllic art of Bagram airbase: Edmund Clark’s Mountains of Majeed When you think of Guantánamo, you think of people in shackles, dressed in orange, bound and gagged. That was how it was represented. We were told they were the worst of the worst, highly trained al-Qaida terrorists who had to be treated this way. It was about fear, terror and dehumanisation. Then you started to learn other things: how they had no legal representation, how they were interrogated. This shot is part of Guantánamo: The Light Goes Out, a series I did questioning its representation. Inmates were released without charge, yet they’d have to live with all that hanging over them forever.I started photographing the homes of men in the UK who’d been released from Guantánamo, humanising them by using domestic spaces. They put me in touch with ex-detainees abroad, like the one in Kuwait. Then I went to Guantánamo Bay itself, to photograph the prison camp and the US naval base, which has itself been a place of incarceration with a huge razor-wire fence since the Cuban revolution. It was small-town America writ large. There were schools, cinemas, a bowling alley, baseball pitches, tennis courts, a golf range, Subway, McDonald’s. I shot things in Guantánamo you didn't see on the news – a mobile force-feeding chair, for example I’d read about a behaviour management plan they had in the prison to make detainees feel dependent on their interrogator. They foster a sense of disorientation – which makes inmates compliant – through light, sound, temperature, stress positions and moving people around. I decided to put these images together in a similar way in my book, to create a disorienting, dissonant visual narrative: you jump from the naval base to ex-detainees’ homes to the prison camp.I was aiming to get away from the images you see on the news, which are about the detainees themselves – just these bits of people, because you’re not allowed to show their faces. All you get is hands, feet, shackles, orange – dehumanised images. I shot space and objects instead: a mobile force-feeding chair, for example.There are elements of the surreal in Guantánamo. One day, as the sun was setting, the flag-lowering ceremony began and the music struck up. The two officers I was with snapped to attention. Then, seconds after all this, the call to prayer went up from the camp next door. Hearing that combination was extraordinary. Also, 45 minutes after your plane landed at Guantánamo, you could be sitting in an Irish pub watching cricket.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photographer Edmund ClarkEdmund Clark’s CVBorn: Dover, 1963.Trained: London College of Printing.Influences: Francisco Goya, Otto Dix, Dutch vanitas painting, Robert Frank, Paul Graham, W Eugene Smith, Jillian Edelstein.High point: “I haven’t reached it yet.”Low point: “A few bumps, but no low points.”Top tip: “Use your own ideas. Work on something important to you.”• Edmund Clark: War of Terror is at the Imperial War Museum, London, until 28 August 2017.