The recent bout of smog in London led to much warranted public outcry and to comparisons being made with Chinese cities such as Beijing and Shanghai. Much was made of the fact that on a particular day, air pollution levels in some parts of London were higher than those in Beijing, a city plagued with air pollution problems.However, while London's smog was of serious concern and something that the government should take measures to prevent, it cannot be compared to the high levels of air pollution that routinely afflict China's big cities. The comparisons were made on what was a good day in Beijing. The levels of around 150 on the Air Quality Index which were experienced in London are an average day for many of China's cities. Upon reading the headlines about the smog in London, some in China scoffed. Even us expatriates, who are used to decent air quality in our home countries, joked that the levels in London are what we would consider jogging weather. This may sound flippant but when you live with consistently bad air, you tend to become somewhat unmoved by it.While the levels of pollution in the UK and China are not comparable, the smog did perhaps give Londoners a glimpse into what it's like to live in a Chinese city. Shanghai is by no means China's most polluted city, in fact it doesn't even make it into the top ten, but the city's residents haven't experienced a "good" air day since last October. A "good" air reading would be of 50 AQI or less. In general the pollution levels in Shanghai these days lingers between the "unhealthy for sensitive groups" to "unhealthy" ranges. The weather now has little concern for people, it's the air pollution that everyone talks about. The same way people in other countries check the weather forecast to see if it will rain in case they need to bring an umbrella, we start the day by checking an air pollution smart app to see if we need to wear a face mask. Small talk does not revolve around the weather anymore but instead the air quality. "The air is good today" has replaced "it's a nice day". Scientific terms relating to pollution such as PM2.5, fine particulate matter that is considered to be dangerous as it lodges deep in the lungs and enters the blood stream, have become part of everyday conversation.Sales of air purifiers, face masks and related products and services have soared as people try to protect themselves and their families. Air purifiers have become a must-have item and a status symbol. Like designer handbags the more expensive the price tag, the more desirable. Face mask companies sell masks with colourful designs and in sizes for children and babies. A baby's important 'firsts' now includes baby's first face mask, something I recently purchased for my nine-month old son but struggle to get him to wear. This winter there have been weeks at a time when, apart from a quick dash into a taxi, he remains indoors breathing air that has been recycled through an air purifier. In Shanghai we tend to console ourselves that, while the air isn't always up to World Health Organisation (WHO) standards, at least it's not as bad as Beijing. However, this winter we experienced our own airpocalypse with the smog reaching hazardous and off the chart levels of over 600 AQI.Air is not something you imagine has a taste but when the pollution levels get that high, it has metallic bitter taste and tickles the back of your throat. Hospitals reported high numbers of patients with respiratory issues. Many friends said they had trouble breathing, itchy skin and headaches. The smog clings to the city like a shroud, giving it a ghostly air. Skyscrapers disappear and people move along the streets like shadows. It's what I imagine Mordor must be like, inhabited by a colony of face mask wearing Darth Vaders. Ironically, the grey soupy sky creates beautiful sunsets.Air pollution is nothing to be scoffed at. It is a very serious health issue, killing as many as seven million people a year. Authorities in the UK and China should take tackling it seriously. There is little doubt that China's bad air now is storing up a host of health problems for it's population into the future.