Lindisfarne, or Holy Island, is to get a new viewpoint, which will be useful for its beautiful but low-lying dunes and fields which crouch just off the Northumberland coast.The local community development trust is working with Natural England to create a room with a view at the top of the disused Coastguard lookout tower which stands above the village 'capital'.  The tower awaiting its renovation. Photograph: Natural EnglandAs well as basic repairs to the workaday building, including full weatherproofing and a proper staircase in place of the current ladder, the dilapidated roof-room where the coastguard kept watch will be turned into a 360 degrees, round-the-compass observatory.The view from the heugh, a local word for cragg or cliff, will take in the whole of the Lindisfarne national nature reserve, 3,500 hectares (8,650 acres) of grassland, saltmarsh, dunes and tidal mudflats which are home to both resident and migrating birds and unusual plants. The reserve, which includes a swath of the mainland coast between Bamburgh and Berwick-upon-Tweed, has also been invaded, mind, by the non-native pirri-pirri bur, a menace to dogs and clothes. You're safe from that in the coastguard tower.  There'll be an easier way up than this. Photograph: Natural EnglandNatural England reckons that this view, the first time the whole NNR has been visible from the ground, will be complemented on good days by the Farne islands out to see and the Cheviot hills inland. A related scheme will create a 'Window on Wild Lindisfarne' overlooking the Rocket Field, along Harbour Road between the village and Lindisfarne castle (another great viewpoint).This is where coastguard and lifeboat teams, the heirs to Grace Darling, used to practice the vital skill of firing rockets accurately, to carry lifelines and breeches buoys out to foundering ships. It is notable for wildlife, especially in autumn and winter when wildfowl and waders congregate.The 'window' will be sheltered in a stone building with a 'living turf' roof on a site, like the coastguard tower, which has played a part in many islanders' lives. The chair of the community development trust, Dick Patterson, says: I well remember sprinting between the Lookout Tower and the Rocket House as a lad to raise the alarm after the coastguard had spotted a ship in trouble. I'm delighted that our Trust is leading on exciting projects at both sites that will benefit local people and visitors.Both will give an excellent chance to safeguard an important part of the Island's history and also a great opportunity to open the eyes of visitors to the wonderful natural environment here.   Lindisfarne Castle. Photograph: Murdo MacleodAdrian Vass, area manager for Natural England, says:Its extraordinary history and unique setting makes Holy Island a very special place, as well as home for the islanders who live there, a popular destination for visitors, and internationally important for wildlife throughout the year.Work should be finished by September.