MondayFirst seen at the Traverse in Edinburgh, the five-star Black Beauty gallops into Platform in Easterhouse. Rough and ragged but authentic and heartfelt, Dear Home Office, at the Bunker in London, gives space for young asylum seekers to tell their own stories. Caryl Churchill’s sublime Escaped Alone is at the Royal Court all week.TuesdayTheatr Genedlaethol Cymru, the Welsh-language national theatre of Wales, bring Gwyn Thomas’s version of Macbeth to Caerphilly Castle. Cardiff’s pub theatre, the Other Room, teams up with Gagglebabble for Sinners Club, where theatre meets gig to tell the story of Ruth Ellis, the last woman hanged in Britain. Sh!t Theatre’s Letters to Windsor House, about London’s housing crisis, continues at Soho theatre. Red Cape’s tales of everyday heroism, Be Brave and Leave for the Unknown, is at the Drum in Plymouth. Mark Gatiss leads a fine cast in the dated but still fascinating Boys in the Band at the Vaudeville. James Morgan’s monstrous drag act, Drag On, and Mamoru Irguchi’s 4D Cinema make a double bill at the Yard in Hackney Wick this week.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Angry agit-prop … E15. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianWednesdayCalais at the Vault festival in London is a piece created from Twitter users who documented the demolition of the Calais refugee camp last year. Also at the Vault is Romanian playwright Matei Visniec’s What Shall We Do With the Cello? which is set in a waiting room where a man refuses to stop making music. The In Between Time festival begins in Bristol with Nic Green’s Cock and Bull, Lone Twin’s Ghost Dance and Project O’s Voodoo. Griff Rhys Jones stars in the West End-bound The Miser directed by Sean Foley at the Theatre Royal in Bath. Lizzie Nunnery’s wartime love story, Narvik, is at the Theatre By the Lake in Keswick. It’s one night only for Made in China’s unsettling Tonight I’m Going to Be the New Me at the Continental in Preston. E15, the story of the teenage mothers who took on Newham council when they were evicted from a mother and baby unit, is loud and angry agit-prop theatre and well worth seeing at Hull Truck. ThursdaySimon McBurney’s staging of Stefan Zweig’s Beware Of Pity is sold out at the Barbican but there’s a live stream online on Sunday. David Rosenberg and Glen Neath’s creepy headphones show, Fiction, which uses binaural technology, plays the Arena in Wolverhampton. Middle-class hypocrisies are skewered in a revival of Yasmina Reza’s God of Carnage at the Tron in Glasgow. Over in Edinburgh at the Traverse, there’s a three-night run of Tortoise in a Nutshell’s show Fisk which uses puppetry and music to explore depression.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wildly creative … The Misfit AnalysisFriday and the weekendA new version of Le Gateau Chocolat’s Black, about the songs that see us through the darkest hours, is staged with an 11-piece orchestra as the opener in the Queer Contact festival in Manchester. Cian Binchy’s wildly creative exploration of the autistic mind, The Misfit Analysis, goes out on tour from Warwick Arts Centre. A cast of actor-musicians are directed by rising star Max Webster in The Winter’s Tale at the Lyceum in Edinburgh. Pilot Theatre’s staging of EM Forster’s The Machine Stops, about our complex relationship with technology, goes out on tour from Theatre Royal in York. On Saturday’s there’s the first performance of See Me Now at the Young Vic, a show created and performed by people who have earned a living as sex workers.