The crime section of my favourite bookstore has changed dramatically. What used to resemble a wall of books about burnt-out, middle aged male detectives now looks very different. Girl on The Train, The Good Girl, The Girl Before, The Perfect Girl and of course Gone Girl. There are countless titles like this, so many it seems farcical.Not that I’m laughing. I’m one of them. It may not have the word “girl” in the title (although it was proposed by the publisher) but my novel isn’t so far off. If you strip these stories back to their bones, they all follow the same rough chronology: A young woman fears her husband wants to kill her. She begins to search for evidence in their expansive home, which has begun to feel more like a prison. Is she really in danger, or is she paranoid?The Girl on the Train: how Paula Hawkins wrote ‘the new Gone Girl’ Long before Lina worried her husband was poisoning her in Alfred Hitchcock’s Suspicion – long before the body of Daphne Du Maurier’s Rebecca washed up on the shore – was a fictional French nobleman’s nameless young wife. When she unlocked the door to the bloody chamber in Charles Perrault’s 1697 folktale Bluebeard, she also unlocked a new genre: the domestic noir.I remember when I first heard about domestic noir. It was my second year at university, and I was sitting in the State library reading a breakdown of the genre and its roots in the Bluebeard folktale. I sat back in my chair. Right next to the textbook was a short story I’d been working on. It fit the genre perfectly. I experienced a rush of conflicting emotions that I imagine most young writers experience in some form or other: that I was not original, and that my work was part of something bigger, and more culturally specific, than just my own experience.I soon became fascinated with the Bluebeard story, enrolling in a research masters course to further investigate it. What interested me was not so much the folktale itself, but the way the narrative kept resurfacing again and again in fiction. The last time the genre was at its strongest was in the 1940s when the second world war was coming to an end and women’s roles were changing. Men were returning from war, often psychologically as well as physically injured, and women’s freedoms were retracting. Domestic noir gave them an outlet: ordinary wives and homemakers becoming pre-emptive detectives, investigating their own potential victimhood. Now, in 2016, the domestic detectives are back with a vengeance. The prominence of the genre is being called a new trend in publishing. A “fad” even. As though it is a brand new creation that will get as tired as ombre hair or the paleo diet.Grip-lit? Psychological thrillers were around long before Gone Girl Looking back at history, it’s easier to trace why this story appealed to women in certain eras. It is less straightforward in the context of our present moment. To look around ourselves, here and now, and understand why we have seen such a resurgence of Bluebeard-esque narratives. Some ideas do spring to mind: the shocking statistics around intimate partner violence; the culture of fear and paranoia in the current political climate. As Paula Hawkins told the Guardian last year, “Men tend to be attacked by strangers, women tend to be attacked by people they know.”In interviews I am often asked what makes my book stand out from the other “girls”. I find this question strange. No one seems to comment on yet another alcoholic detective trying to solve that last cold case. I don’t see these other books as my competition – the opposite. I’m proud to be part of this genealogy of writers who are repositioning women in crime narratives. Focusing on them as subjective in the story of their victimisation rather than being the ultimate objectification: a dead body. • Only Daughter by Anna Snoekstra is out now through Harlequin