Hope has millions of followers hanging on her every word as she teaches them how to be happy and more positive on her YouTube channel and blog. This is all paid for by the manufacturer of Leata, the wonder-pill that she believes will make you happier, no catches.The whole country is taking Leata; you are alienated if you choose not to take it or stand up against PharmaCare, the giant corporation behind it. This is exactly what Tom’s dad did and now he’s dead, allegedly having committed suicide, although Tom is beginning to suspect that it was murder. Years after their childhood friendship, Tom and Hope’s lives are about to crash together in a way neither of them expected.  This book feels very familiar and not particularly unique; when I read the description I could have sworn that I had read it before or picked up another book with similar concepts. A magic pill to solve your problems, a scary drugs company and a potential cover up of a parent’s murder – it all feels like it’s been done before within the YA genre. This may be because there are other books that significantly cover these topics but also because they are such clichés of YA fiction. However, the use of social media is really interesting and original, as it doesn’t shy away from asking serious questions about the role of internet personalities like Hope. Cloud 9 helps to explore the relationships between big brands, creators and their fans, asking what is true and what is the message that the creators and brands wish to spread. I would have loved to see this explored even more as it was one of the most relevant themes throughout the whole book. The action in the book was well written and really helped the story out of its rut about halfway through. Cloud 9 was much more enjoyable to read once the pace picked up and the ending was satisfying. I loved the characters Hope and Tom, because they were flawed and real; their personal development is easily as interesting as the main plot. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Cloud 9 is not particularly special among YA fiction but it is a good example of a well written and fun book, despite not being original in its initial concept. I would recommend it to anyone looking for a YA light read.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!