Yasiin Bey, the influential hip hop star and activist formerly known as Mos Def, has announced he will retire from the stage at the end of 2016.The artist will perform a series of shows in December in New York and Washington, DC. The news of his retirement comes after Tuesday’s update that Bey – who was arrested in January after trying to leave South Africa on a “world passport” and was subsequently detained in the country – had apologised for breaking immigration laws, and was now allowed to return to the United States.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Video:watch the rapper perform Umi SaysHe will perform at Harlem’s Apollo theater on 21 December before shows at the Kennedy Center from 31 December to 2 January. Bey’s farewell concerts are said to span his entire career, including songs from his albums The New Danger, True Magic, The Ecstatic and Black on Both Sides, as well as new material. Billboard reports that the rapper will also bring on “surprise special guests”.In January this year, Bey announced his retirement during a message via Kanye West’s website, in which he said he would leave both the music and film industry “effective immediately”. His news also came with a freestyle, in which he described his treatment in South Africa. He demanded: “No more parties in SA,” and asked: “Why these police up in my face? Why they raiding my place? Why I don’t feel safe? This is not an expression of fear. This is just to make things clear. My intentions are pure in coming here. And that’s for everything I love or hold dear. Homies in the building. So is my wife and my children. I committed no crime. Why is the state wasting my time?”At the time of his message, Bey also said he would release new music in 2016, but a fifth studio album has yet to emerge. Bey has two concerts at the O2 Forum in Kentish Town, London, slated for 26 and 27 January next year, rescheduled from dates abandoned in October. The Guardian has contacted the venue to ask if they will go ahead.In 2013, in collaboration with the Guardian, Yasiin Bey highlighted the plight of Guantánamo Bay detainees by undergoing force feeding. Watch the harrowing video here