Men working in the construction industry and women employed in culture, media and sport, healthcare and primary school teaching are at the highest risk of suicide, official figures for England suggest.The research, commissioned by Public Health England (PHE), found people in roles as managers, directors and senior officials – the highest paid occupation group – had the lowest risk of suicide.The Office for National Statistics (ONS) looked at all 18,998 deaths of people aged 20 to 64 – a rate of about 12 deaths for every 100,000 people per year – who killed themselves in England between 2011 and 2015. Of these records, 13,232 had information on the deceased’s occupation.Suicide is the leading cause of death for men under 50 and about four in five (10,688) deaths included in the analysis were among men.The ONS found low-skilled male construction workers had the greatest risk, at 3.7 times above the national average. Strong link between disadvantage and suicide, says Samaritans Building finishing trades, including plasterers, painters and decorators, had a risk twice the national average and the risk for low-skilled workers in process plant operations was 2.6 times higher. The agricultural sector also carried an elevated risk for men, more than 1.5 times above the average for both low-skilled and high-skilled workers. For women, the risk was elevated among those working in culture, media and sport occupations, at 0.69 times higher than the national average, compared with 0.2 times higher for men. The risk of suicide among female health professionals was about a quarter higher than the national average, largely driven by suicides among nurses, and it was 0.42 times higher for primary and nursery school teachers, although lower than average for the teaching and education profession as a whole.The risk among male and female carers was almost twice the national average but among corporate managers and directors the risk was more than two-thirds lower for both sexes.The ONS said previous studies suggested an occupation may have a high risk because of low pay and job security and/or access to or knowledge of methods of suicide. The Samaritans chief executive, Ruth Sutherland, said: “We spend a third of our lives at work and one fifth of us experience suicidal thoughts, so these resources are much needed. We shouldn’t stop there though – it is up to us to create a culture in our workplaces where people feel safe enough to talk about their feelings and get support if they need it.”PHE said the research, published on Friday, will help build a better understanding of factors that influence suicide and help identify where inequalities exist among different groups.The PHE chief executive, Duncan Selbie, said: “People who die from suicide are usually not in contact with health services, and often push through in silence as their ability to cope deteriorates. With more than two-thirds of adults in employment, the workplace offers an opportunity to reach people who need extra support.“I urge all employers, large or small, public or private sector to treat mental health as seriously as physical health. Early action can stop any employees reaching a desperate stage. Simple actions can make a huge difference – talking with a manager or colleague can help people get the support they need, and ultimately save lives.”PHE, Business in the Community and the Samaritans have published toolkits to help employers prevent and respond to suicides. The ONS limited its analysis to occupations where there were 50 suicides or more so that relative mortality rates could be estimated more precisely. In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here