How strange it was that the final day of Britain’s twice-yearly celebration of men’s fashion, London Collections Men, fell on the morning that we learned of David Bowie’s death.Monday’s hot ticket, the Burberry show, was full of flamboyant dressers who idolised the musician, such as fashion editors who danced to Ziggy Stardust at the Blitz Club as teenagers and stylists whose first experiments with crimson hair dye and silver nail varnish were inspired by him.David Bowie: legendary rock star dies of cancer aged 69 – latest updates “There isn’t a single person in this room, or single LCM designer, who hasn’t been touched by him in some way,” said GQ editor Dylan Jones before the show, as Oh! You Pretty Things played in the background. Many in the crowd hugged and consoled each other, united in the belief that they had lost one of their own. Bowie adopted so many looks over the years – psychedelic sci-fi, androgynous dandyism, razor-sharp tailoring – that it would be impossible to view a men’s catwalk show without seeing a glimpse of him. At the Burberry show his influence was literal: models wore glitter on their faces in tribute, while some had his name written across the palm of their hands.The rest of Burberry’s autumn/winter 2016 collection centred on one item – the zip-up tracksuit top – a piece that has been recently elevated to high fashion status across men’s and women’s fashion courtesy of Chloe, Gucci, Prada, and the hotly tipped Russian designer Gosha Rubchinskiy. Here the tracksuit was zipped up under the brand’s famous honey-coloured macintosh and layered beneath longline double-breasted military coats. There were further terracewear touches in black trainers with red piping, loose jeans cut awkwardly at the ankle and khaki bomber, parka and puffa jackets.The palette was either restrained and 1970s-influenced – forest green, mustard, black and tobacco – or red and black with shining buttons and golden frogging, giving a changing of the guard feeling to the show, appropriately enough for a brand that trades on its Britishness. The final looks included two fully sequinned tracksuit tops in tomato red and azure blue that sparkled like Christmas baubles under the spotlights.A couple of looks centred on the cream, red and black Burberry check worn in the noughties by celebrities who, to put it delicately, Burberry would not have sought as brand ambassadors. The pattern appeared as a scarf over a camel-coloured cable knit sweater in one look, with a more delicate version used for an overcoat in another.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Burberry autumn/winter 2016. Photograph: Tristan Fewings/Getty ImagesSpeaking backstage in a scrum of journalists and celebrities – Brooklyn Beckham, Mark Ronson and Steve McQueen, to name a few, issued bear hugs and compliments – Burberry’s CEO and creative director, Christopher Bailey, said the collection was a “mixture of different worlds” and that he had looked to vintage Burberry pieces, from the 1930s onwards, for inspiration. Tellingly, Burberry’s recent collections have usually taken high brow references as their starting point – David Hockney, the Bloomsbury group, Lucien Freud – in further efforts to distance the brand from the associations of its much-counterfeited check.Burberry attracts the attention of short-sellers The fact that Monday’s show offered no such esoteric references suggested that the Burberry brand has developed to such an extent that embracing this part of its past is now possible.Burberry will announce its Christmas trading figures later this week, with analysts predicting disappointing results owing to unusually warm weather and the economic slowdown in China. Creatively, however, Monday’s show suggested the company is on solid ground – and is confident enough to reclaim its camel-checked past rather than gloss over it. 