Bookmakers believe Catholic church abuse drama Spotlight will beat western The Revenant to the best film prize at this year’s Academy Awards, but expect Leonardo DiCaprio to take home his first Oscar for his role in the latter.The Revenant, from the Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu, leads the charge with 12 nominations, ahead of science fiction efforts Mad Max: Fury Road, with 10, and The Martian, with seven, following the announcement of the shortlists on 14 January. But overall nominations, which include large numbers of lesser technical categories, are routinely misleading during awards season and most bookmakers believe other challengers will punch above their weight for the major prizes.Oscar nominations 2016: The Revenant leads field, Mad Max in second place William Hill has Spotlight at 4/5 to win best picture, with The Revenant second-placed at 13/8. Paddy Power has similar odds: Spotlight at 5/6 and The Revenant at 13/8. The aggregator oddschecker.com also has Tom McCarthy’s film out ahead, with The Revenant second-placed and The Big Short, The Martian and Fury Road rounding out the top five.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Iñárritu looks set to take the best director prize for the second year running, however. William Hill has the film-maker, who also won for Birdman in 2015, at 4/7 to repeat his success, against 3/1 for McCarthy, while Paddy Power has Iñárritu at 4/6, with McCarthy at 5/2. Aggregator oddschecker.com places Iñárritu as favourite, followed by McCarthy, Adam McKay (The Big Short), George Miller (Fury Road) and Lenny Abrahamson (Room).In the best actor category, DiCaprio appears a huge favourite to buck an unfortunate personal trend after picking up four previous acting nominations but each time failing to go on to win. The Titanic star is 1/7 or 1/8 with most bookmakers after winning the Golden Globe for best actor in a drama, with Steve Jobs’s Michael Fassbender second-placed at between 5/1 and 8/1. Likewise, Room’s Brie Larson is a big favourite to win best actress (at around 1/3) ahead of Brooklyn’s Saoirse Ronan and Carol’s Cate Blanchett.Academy president 'disappointed' with all-white Oscar nominees Best supporting actor looks likely to go to Sylvester Stallone for Creed, according to bookmakers, ahead of Bridge of Spies’ Mark Rylance. And Carol’s Rooney Mara is the favourite for supporting actress, ahead of Alicia Vikander for The Danish Girl and Kate Winslet for Steve Jobs. Spotlight, written by McCarthy and Josh Singer, looks odds on to win the best original screenplay prize, at around 1/4, with Pixar animation Inside Out its nearest challenger. Few bookmakers are listing the best adapted screenplay prize, for which Adam McKay and Charles Randolph’s script for financial crisis drama The Big Short is expected to be a frontrunner. Inside Out, meanwhile, is roundly 1/10 to win best animated feature, with its nearest challenger expected to be Charlie Kaufman’s stop motion treat Anomalisa at about 6/1.This year’s Academy Awards ceremony will take place on 28 February at the Dolby theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles, with Chris Rock due to host for the second time.