School drop-out, conscientious objector, young communist, tramp, jailbird, hospital orderly, allotment keeper, painter and decorator – it hardly looks like a promising CV for a literary agent, but Jonathan Clowes, who has died aged 86 after suffering from Alzheimer’s, was all of the above, and the writers he nurtured go all the way up to a Nobel prize winner.Brought up in south London, Clowes came from a middle-class family; his father ran a picture-framing business. After leaving his grammar school at 15 “for failing every exam”, as he put it, he took a variety of jobs, predominantly manual and unskilled, before running into a spot of bother when called up for military service. Averse to fighting in the Korean war, he went on the run, but was caught and sent to jail. In all he served three short prison terms, in Wormwood Scrubs, Wandsworth and Brixton, where his work in the prison libraries fed the voracious appetite for reading he had developed after leaving school. He managed to shorten his third prison term by feigning a religious conversion, whereupon he was freed and given a job as a hospital orderly.His introduction into the world of literary agents came almost by accident when he was working as a painter and decorator and was shown a manuscript for a play written by a member of his crew, Henry Chapman. Placing great faith in his own judgment, Clowes took the manuscript to Joan Littlewood, thanks to an introduction from a mutual friend, and she was sufficiently impressed to put the play on. Soon after, he arranged for another friend’s novel, A Breath of Fresh Air, by Fred Ball, to be published by Faber and Faber. He later confessed it was the only publisher he had ever heard of.His third assignment came through another friend who was working as a graphic artist. Knowing the man well, Clowes suggested that he might do better writing fiction and the result was the first great success for both of them. The friend was Len Deighton and the book that resulted was The Ipcress File, for which Clowes negotiated both book and film deals.Taking on publishers and film producers from a position of sheer ignorance may seem an intimidating task, but Clowes quickly developed an effective negotiating style. At the start this may have consisted mainly of pure bluff and a silence suggesting deep thought, but from a position of having never even seen a contract, he quickly learned the trade, mainly by letting others do the talking and rejecting anything he did not understand. The reputation he gained for inscrutability, wisdom and quiet contemplation always stayed with him.Taking on only authors he truly believed in, and sometimes even lending them money to pursue their writing ambitions, Clowes built up a client list that included many of the top names in the world of novelists, poets, playwrights and TV script writers. In 1960 he founded the Jonathan Clowes Ltd agency, which attracted, among others, Kingsley Amis, Elizabeth Jane Howard, Christine Keeler, Maureen Duffy, David Nobbs, Carla Lane, Peter Tinniswood, David Bellamy and the Nobel laureate Doris Lessing. When asked what sort of writers he represented, he would simply reply: “The best ones.”In a rare interview for the Guardian in 1970, he described the qualities that make a good agent as “a good business sense combined with an ability to help a writer aesthetically”, going on to say: “A lot of agents have one without the other.” Having both in abundance was what gained Clowes great respect from publishers and trust and loyalty from his writers, many of whom became close personal friends. On the other side of the literary fence, the publishers quickly learned to appreciate Clowes’s lack of pushiness in favour of delicate understatement. When Clowes said that something seemed to him “rather good”, they knew it was liable to be sensational. Equally, when a troubled author was having doubts about a book and Clowes told them “I think it works”, they took it as the highest praise and breathed easy again.His successful ventures on the fringe of the world of book publishing included a long-term involvement in handling and advising on the Arthur Conan Doyle copyrights in the face of disputes among the author’s family, and working as assistant producer with Michael Deeley on the 1967 film Robbery. This almost led to an involvement with Deeley’s hugely successful film The Italian Job, but Clowes turned it down.In appearance, Clowes had the bohemian appearance of a leftwing intellectual, bearded and with corduroy jacket and open-necked, a style he maintained even when he had clearly become one of the literary establishment. It is not quite true, as has sometimes been claimed, that he never wore a tie, and while he did indeed have shirts specially tailored for him that did not need a tie, he did, on rare occasions such as his daughter’s wedding and Lessing’s Nobel prize award dinner, sport the approved neckwear.He ran his agency highly successfully until 1990, when he was told by his doctors that he must work less and live in a better climate. With extreme reluctance, he reduced his client list from more than 60 to only 12 and moved to south-west France with his second wife, Ann Evans, whom he had married in 1981.Together they bought a derelict Cistercian abbey dating back to the 12th century, where Clowes could enjoy a more restful life, where he developed a new passion for taking in stray cats, and where he had time to indulge his passion for wine, particularly claret. His friend and fellow agent Andrew Nurnberg recalls sharing an excellent bottle of Pomerol there to celebrate Jonathan’s 80th birthday. Restoring the wine cellar, its floor covered with stone chips to let the wine breathe, was apparently a priority in rebuilding the abbey. Perhaps his early experience as painter and decorator had at last come in useful again.He is survived by Ann and by his daughter, Victoria, from his first marriage, to Enyd Williams, which ended in divorce, and grandson, Cassius.• Jonathan Clowes, literary agent, born 8 June 1930; died 18 November 2016