Philosophy: Alain de Botton‘Seneca should be the author of the hour’Author Alain de Botton is known for applying philosophical concepts to everyday life; his books include How Proust Can Change Your Life (1997), Status Anxiety (2004) and The Architecture of Happiness (2006). In 2008 he co-founded The School of Life, an innovative school with a focus on emotional intelligence.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alain de Botton: ‘I discovered a Frenchman.’ Photograph: Eamonn McCabe for the Guardian1. Mythologies by Roland Barthes (1957)I wouldn’t have become the writer I am if I hadn’t discovered Barthes. At university I felt a confused longing to write, but couldn’t imagine what sort of writer to be – then I discovered a Frenchman who showed me a new way of writing nonfiction. Mythologies is about the most ordinary things: washing powder, the Eiffel Tower, falling in love, short and long-hemmed skirts, photographs of his mother. And yet he brought a classical education and a philosophical mind to bear on these subjects. He knew how to connect Racine and beach holidays, Freud and the anticipation of a lover’s phone call. His work rejected the division between the high and the low; he could see the deeper themes running through supposedly banal things. For Proust the meaning of life turns out to be located not so much in love or worldly success as in aesthetic experience 2. The Unquiet Grave by Cyril Connolly (1951)This is usually out of print and is often compared unfavourably with Connolly’s far-better-known Enemies of Promise (1938). The accusation most often levelled at it is that it’s a work of self-indulgence, which fails to distinguish between talking a lot about yourself and being self-centred; Connolly did a lot of the former, but was not the latter. It’s a seductive mixture of diary, commonplace book, essay, travelogue and memoir, arranged in loose paragraphs in which Connolly gives us his views on women, religion, death, seduction, infatuation and literature. The thoughts are wise and beautifully modelled, with the balance of the best French aphorisms: for example: “There is no fury like an ex-wife searching for a new lover.”3. Letters from a Stoic by Seneca (AD65)Given the times we live in, Seneca should be the author of the hour. In a time of continuous political upheaval (Nero was on the imperial throne), Seneca interpreted philosophy as a discipline to keep us calm against a backdrop of perpetual danger. He tried to calm the sense of injustice in his readers by reminding them – in AD62 – that natural and manmade disasters will always be a feature of our lives, however sophisticated and safe we think we have become. We must, argued Seneca, hold the possibility of the most obscene events in mind at all times. No one should undertake a journey by car, or walk down the stairs or say goodbye to a friend without an awareness – neither gruesome nor unnecessarily dramatic – of fatal possibilities.4. Essays and Aphorisms by Arthur Schopenhauer (1851)Schopenhauer is another great pessimist who makes you feel happier: he pointed out that all humans find it easy to imagine perfection, but that it’s a problem to suppose such perfection can ever occur. The modern bourgeois philosophy pins its hopes firmly on those two great presumed ingredients of happiness – love and work. But there is vast unthinking cruelty discreetly coiled within this magnanimous assurance that everyone will discover satisfaction here, which almost never happens. So our individual misfortunes – our fractious marriages, our unexploited ambitions – instead of seeming to us quasi-inevitable aspects of life, will weigh down on us like particular curses.5. In Search of Lost Time by Marcel Proust (1913-1927)What I appreciate here is that this isn’t a novel so much as a philosophy book with novelistic details. It’s one person’s search for how to stop wasting, and start appreciating, that most precious commodity: time. The meaning of life turns out to be located not so much in love or worldly success (two alternatives amply explored by Proust) as in aesthetic experience: the heightened, clarified, sympathetic version of reality we find in the best art.Film: Mark Kermode‘I remain in awe of Kim Newman’s work on horror’Mark Kermode is chief film critic for the Observer. He is the author of several books on cinema, including The Good, The Bad & The Multiplex: What’s Wrong with Modern Movies? (2011) And Hatchet Job: Love Movies, Hate Critics (2013).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Kermode: ‘Nightmare Movies is matchless stuff.’ Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose for the Observer1. Men, Women, and Chainsaws by Carol J Clover (1992)Clover was a specialist in old Norse-Icelandic literature who began to notice feminist undercurrents in the disreputable slasher movies that had traditionally been dismissed as sadistic trash. Exploring the complex ways in which horror audiences identify not with the tormentors but with the tormented, Clover identified the “final girl” as the touchstone character of these narratives, brilliantly refiguring theories of gender identity in exploitation cinema. Astute, insightful, and terrifically entertaining, Men, Women, and Chainsaws crystallised ideas many horror fans had previously struggled to express, and did so with an irresistible enthusiasm. With eye-opening candour, Roenblum explains how films can be lost, found and reshaped in post-production 2. The Dilys Powell Film Reader by Edited by Christopher Cook (1991)Over the years several friends and relatives have bought me film readers from the publisher Carcanet, including works by CA Lejeune, Graham Greene and (of course) Philip French, all of which now occupy a special section of my bookshelf. The first, however, was this collection by “the doyenne of British film critics”, Dilys Powell, which my mentor, Arnold Hinchliffe, bought me as a reminder of what “proper” film criticism should look like. Reading the work of critics like these has always been important to me, not least because it serves to remind me how elegant the medium can be.3. When the Shooting Stops… the Cutting Begins by Ralph Rosenblum & Robert Karen (1979)It’s often claimed (with some justification) that film critics don’t understand how movies are made, but when it comes to editing even those who make films can be baffled by this most “invisible” process. Editor Ralph Rosenblum worked on movies as diverse as The Night They Raided Minsky’s and Annie Hall, and his first-hand account of the practicalities and politics of the cutting room is as fascinating as it is accessible. With eye-opening candour, he explains how films can be lost, found and reshaped in post-production, blending technical knowledge with vast personal experience.4. Black American Cinema by Edited by Manthia Diawara (1993)Having studied English literature rather than film at Manchester University, I remain unqualified to talk about cinema other than as a lifelong enthusiast – something that only gets you so far. In attempting to plug the vast academic gaps in my knowledge, this seminal collection of essays from the AFI [American Film Institute] readers series proved invaluable. In the preface Diawara talks about addressing both “a black film aesthetic by focusing on the black artist” and “the thorny issue of film spectatorship”. This authoritative volume covers film-makers from Oscar Micheaux to Spike Lee, and is as relevant now as it was when first published.5. Nightmare Movies by Kim Newman (1985)Along with the horror/fantasy film critics Nigel Floyd and Alan Jones, Kim Newman was a guiding light when I started out in film journalism, and I remain in awe of his work. First published in the 1980s, since when it has been massively expanded and updated, Nightmare Movies is matchless stuff – a textbook which turns Newman’s encyclopaedic knowledge into a readable romp through the hidden byways of horror cinema. Like Mark Cousins’s The Story of Film, it’s as book that never ceases to amaze and delight me.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: James MelaughEconomics: Noreena Hertz‘Great economic thinking must straddle politics, ethics and history’Noreena Hertz has been economics editor of ITV News since May last year; she is a distinguished fellow at Cambridge, visiting professor at Utrecht and honorary professor at UCL. Her books The Silent Takeover (2001), IOU: The Debt Threat and Why We Must Defuse It (2004) and Eyes Wide Open (2013) have been published in 22 countries.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Noreena Hertz: ‘Sometimes people think about economics as a much narrower, less rich subject than it really is.’1. The Affluent Society by John Kenneth Galbraith (1958)I read this when I was studying economics for A-level aged 15 and it opened my eyes to the fact that it was a much richer discipline than the graphs and numbers in the dry textbooks I’d been exposed to. Here was a thinker who was making clear that economics was inextricably linked with politics and that economists not only could, but should, take views on big social and political issues, should challenge prevailing beliefs and norms. That was very influential reading at such an early age. It’s also beautifully written and showed me you could do yourself a real service as an economist if you could write well. Amartya Sen’s work really resonated with the realities I experienced in Africa and the Middle East 2. Exit, Voice, and Loyalty by Albert O Hirschman (1970)This is a really slim book but with a good idea: essentially that our power doesn’t only lie in our ability to walk away but also in our ability to stay put and complain. The economic orthodoxy up until then was that the market was the regulating force, so what regulated company behaviours was that customers could walk away if they didn’t like their product and what regulated governments was that an election would come up. But what Hirschman said was that it can be even more powerful to stay and exercise your ability to complain. I found it a powerful idea when I read it at university and it was definitely influential in my thinking behind The Silent Takeover.3. Institutions, Institutional Change and Economic Performance by Douglass North (1990)This is probably the hardest read from my list, but the ideas are some of the most influential I’ve come across – this was when I was studying for my PhD. His big idea was that when you’re trying to understand why some countries become rich while others remain poor, you have to look at the complex interplay of the country’s history, culture, societal norms, laws and belief systems, not just the markets. We ignore history and culture at our peril. I was looking at Russia in the early 90s and realised you couldn’t just impose a market economy on to it and expect something to emerge that looked like the US or the UK, but that a very particular Russian form of capitalism would emerge.4. If Women Counted by Marilyn Waring (1988)I read this at university and it was the first feminist economics book I read – I wasn’t even aware the branch existed. Waring talks about how much of women’s work at home isn’t included in GDP calculations, and how women are ignored in traditional economics. She argues that the production of well-cared-for children is just as important as that of cars or crops. It triggered my interest in where gender and economics intersect and I went on to do work around who we value in society. I think there has been progress, but the whole caring economy still remains significantly undervalued.5. Development As Freedom by Amartya Sen (1999)This essentially argues that economic development isn’t just about raising income, but also about political rights – health, opportunity, safety, security – ideas that were very influential in the creation of the UN’s human development goals. I spent a few years working in Africa and the Middle East and Sen’s work really resonated with the realities on the ground, how a person’s life was not necessarily enhanced in an uptick in that country’s GDP, how you had to look at how the money was being distributed and who got access to it. What all my authors have in common is that they straddle politics, ethics and history. Sometimes when people think about economics they’re thinking of it as a much narrower, less rich subject than it really is.Law: Helena Kennedy‘We have to keep remembering we are capable of terrible things’Helena Kennedy QC is a Labour peer and an expert on human rights, civil liberties and the constitution. Her books include Eve Was Framed (1993) and Just Law (2004). She is chair of the Helena Kennedy Foundation, which promotes social inclusion in higher education.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helena Kennedy: ‘I often use poetry when speaking to the jury.’ Photograph: Getty Images1. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948)This little booklet stays in my handbag and I constantly refer to it. My work is increasingly about human rights and this foundational document shows their development and reminds us why they matter. For example, it addresses the right to equal access to education. I’m the president of a bursary programme that helps the very disadvantaged begin education again: girls who get pregnant at school, young men in trouble. We’ve discovered that people fleeing persecution and given sanctuary are charged as if they were foreign students and article 26 argues this is unfair. I believe human rights should be integrated into our daily lives by recognising that everyone has a right to life, liberty and security. On every page beautiful black-and-white photographs display the inhumanity of war, lynching in America, Belsen, poverty… 2. Archbold Criminal Pleading, Evidence and Practice (Published annually)Archbold is the criminal lawyer’s bible: a great, fat legal tome, which I spend my life carting around. Now I have one shoulder that slopes down further than the other. The book sets out the law and is regularly brought up to date. It’s useful for addressing the law on homicide, for example, which has been modernised, and analysing issues such as diminished responsibility, which has evolved due to advances in psychiatry. It explains the changing position on the killing of newborn infants and the law on joint enterprise. The fine print is incredibly important to the way in which you make legal argument, a journey of research that culminates in the use of relevant cases in court.3. The Rule of Law by Tom Bingham (2010)Bingham was the president of our supreme court, or the appellate division of the House of Lords, as it was then known. He was a wonderful judge and an inspirational man and he wrote this very small book in which he sets down the meaning of the rule of law. It emphasises the importance of knowing the rules of society and the social contract and encourages equality before and open access to the law, something I’m worried about now because of the legal aid cuts. He discusses the sovereignty of parliament and I’m sure the judges had it in their mind during the recent decision regarding parliament’s role in any major constitutional matter (triggering article 50).4. Century: One Hundred Years of Human Progress, Regression, Suffering and Hope, 1899-1999  by Bruce Bernard and Terence McNamee (2002)I have this fantastic book on a stand in my study. It’s an incredible commentary on the 20th century, in many ways a century of horror, but which gave us the reasons why human rights matter. On every page beautiful black-and-white photographs display the inhumanity of war, lynching in America, Belsen, poverty, events throughout the world. I learned human rights by sitting in cells, in immigrant detention centres, in refugee camps. But you also learn from understanding our history and there’s nothing more powerful than an image to remind us. In the field of law, we’ve got to keep remembering we’re capable of terrible things unless we speak to our better angels.5. Staying Alive: Real Poems for Unreal Times Edited by Neil Astley (2002)I often use poetry when speaking to the jury, and I share the same taste as Neil Astley, who edited this anthology. It’s wonderful to find words that speak about human experience. This includes many poets I love, such as Seamus Heaney, Ted Hughes and Mary Oliver. She wrote a poem called Wild Geese, which is about how we are all connected, and you want to remind jurors of that connection, particularly on difficult cases. Poetry reaches parts that you otherwise cannot. You can quote Martin Luther King on “the arc of history”, or use Seamus Heaney to describe a moment to be seized, and say that as human beings we must rise to the occasion.Life writing: Olivia Laing‘Wojnarowicz’s Close to the Knives is my book of a lifetime’Olivia Laing is the author of To the River (2011), The Trip to Echo Spring (2014) and The Lonely City (2016). In 2014, she was Eccles writer in residence at the British Library. She’s currently working on Everybody, about freedom and the human body.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Olivia Laing: ‘Derek Jarman is a magically acute observer, celebrating wildness in all its forms.’ Photograph: Mike Sim1. The Diary of Virginia Woolf (Five volumes, 1915-1941) Everything starts for me with Woolf. I read Orlando first, but my abiding love is for the five pastel-jacketed volumes of her diaries. She began on 1 January 1915, writing after tea and using the notebooks as a laboratory for ideas, a place to catch stray thoughts and observations: weather reports from the teeming days. It’s this rough quality that appeals to me, the sense of someone thinking at full pelt, worrying their way into new concepts, new forms of language. As for that last, steadfast entry: “L. is doing the rhododendrons…” My aesthetics, my politics, my model of how to be an artist, even my style as a gardener, were founded in Modern Nature 2. Collected Poems by Frank O’Hara (1995)My battered copy bristles with pink and yellow Post-its. A queer poet and curator who was killed by a dune buggy on Fire Island in 1966 at the age of 40, O’Hara is one of the most purely talented and nimble writers who ever lived. His poems are a scourge to pomposity: casual, intimate and expansive, spreeing between registers, cramming in high art and oranges, taxi cabs and exclamation marks. I keep trying to put him in a book, but he wriggles away. All the same, he has my heart.3. The Andy Warhol Diaries (1989) I’m not sure I’ve ever written a piece without consulting the formidable index of Andy Warhol’s diaries. He knew everyone, went everywhere, possessed a gimlet eye for the absurd and was never shy about dishing the dirt on friends and enemies alike. Originally begun as a way of logging his expenditure for the IRS, Warhol dictated the diary down the phone each morning to his secretary, Pat Hackett, which accounts for the wickedly giggly tone. Forget self-reflection: Andy was the consummate mirror for his times, making this the best imaginable history of the glittering, vacuous 1980s.4. Modern Nature by Derek Jarman (1991)It always strikes me as funny that the nature writing currently in vogue never involves any sex. I much prefer Derek Jarman’s sublime and criminally underrated Modern Nature, a memoir-cum-plantsman’s diary, written as a kind of spell against the devastations of Aids. Jarman is a magically acute observer, celebrating wildness in all its forms, from the poppies and sea kale of Dungeness beach to the midnight boys out cruising on Hampstead Heath. Reading it now, I’m amazed to see how pervasively it shaped me. My aesthetics, my politics, my model of how to be an artist, even my style as a gardener, were founded here.5. Close to the Knives by David Wojnarowicz (1991) This, by the artist and activist David Wojnarowicz, is my book of a lifetime, my book for these dark times, an antidote to stupidity, cruelty and oppression of all kinds. Knives is about Wojnarowicz’s life – his boyhood as a homeless hustler in New York, his diagnosis with Aids, the death of his best friend – but it is also about art and power, sex, freedom and resistance. It’s long been out of print in the UK. Happily, next March it will be brought back into circulation by Canongate. Get those pre-orders in now.Nature writing: Richard Mabey‘Lewis Thomas changed the way I thought, wrote and laughed’Richard Mabey is a journalist and broadcaster whose writing examines the relationship between nature and culture. Mabey’s published works span more than 40 years and include Food for Free (1972), Flora Britannica (1996) and Nature Cure (2005). His most recent book is The Cabaret of Plants (2016).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Mabey: ‘To see how “nature” prose should be done I turn repeatedly to Kathleen Jamie’s essays.’ Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the Guardian1. The Lives of a Cell by Lewis Thomas (1974) I’m on my second copy of The Lives of a Cell and its wine stains and frayed pages give it the air of one of the ancient and sociable organisms that swarm in the text. I first read it in the 1970s after it had, uniquely, won two US National Book awards, in both science and arts categories, and it changed the way I thought, wrote and laughed. Thomas was a polymathic, witty, literate biologist and this collection of short essays covers subjects as seemingly disconnected as moth pheromones, language as an evolving ecosystem and the meaning of mythological animals. But his genius was to find and explore their connections, in a coherent story of reverberating wisdom and sublime prose. Oliver Rackham almost singlehandedly turned historical ecology into a national enthusiasm… we are all in his debt 2. The Poet as Botanist by MM Mahood (2008) Professor Molly Mahood is an eminent English literature scholar and her description of this book as exploring “the relationship between biological thought and the poetic process” does not do credit to its darting intelligence and mischievous humour. She trawls the works of writers such as Crabbe, Wordsworth, DH Lawrence, Ruskin and especially John Clare to examine how their botanical knowledge informs their poetry and vice versa. Poetry emerges as a kind of science, truth alloyed out of acute observation and imaginative insight.3. Insectivorous Plants by Charles Darwin (1875)When I was younger, I held a fashionably Romantic disdain for Darwin as a cold mechanist. Then I began to read him properly and found that he was passionate, uncertain, a magnificent writer and full of Keats’s “negative capability”. I once declaimed the final paragraph of On the Origin of Species, with its famous rhapsody to “endless forms most beautiful”, as a secular grace at a wedding breakfast and hankies appeared. Insectivorous Plants is a classic expression of both his scientific method and prose style and, as he experimentally feeds sundews with the contents of his larder, you feel you are in on a fizzing country house murder mystery.4. Ancient Woodland by Oliver Rackham (1980) Oliver Rackham, who died in 2015, almost singlehandedly turned historical ecology into a national enthusiasm. Ancient Woodland is his masterpiece, an overarching survey of East Anglia’s woodland heritage that embraces as evidence Anglo-Saxon charters, carpenters’ receipts and the habits of mildews. He excoriated generalisations and what he called “factoids” in elegant English that had its roots in the precision of Gilbert White and the robustness of William Cobbett. He had little truck with the self-centredness of modern nature writing but we are all in his debt.5. Findings, Sightlines by Kathleen Jamie (2005, 2012) Alan Bennett’s journals are my regular secular collects, but to see how “nature” prose should be done I turn repeatedly to Kathleen Jamie’s essays. Writing of the moon and the night sky, or the skeletons of embryos in a medical museum, she has a clarity, an attentiveness that rinses your mind. She is quite without ego and has no need of extravagant metaphorical frameworks. “The outer world flew open like a door,” she writes, “and I wondered, what is it that we’re just not seeing?”Thought and language: Steven Pinker‘Dawkins inspired me to write for a broad audience’Steven Pinker is professor of psychology at Harvard and writes about language, the mind and human nature. His books include The Blank Slate (2002), The Better Angels of Our Nature (2011), which argued that violence in the developed world is declining, and The Sense of Style (2014).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steven Pinker: ‘So many profound ideas were first explained in Thomas Schelling’s witty masterpiece.’ Photograph: Rex Features1. The Blind Watchmaker by Richard Dawkins (1986)This was one of the books that inspired me to try my hand at scientific writing for a broad audience. It’s a model of how to explain complicated ideas without dumbing them down or boring one’s readers and Dawkins’s description of how he refuted a creationist’s claim that bombardier beetles could not have evolved sent me into a fit of giggles. I’ve gone to it both for explanations of evolutionary phenomena and for examples of lucid prose, including the masterful use of analogy, which I reproduced in my book The Stuff of Thought. David Deutsch never passes along the conventional wisdom: everything is thought through and patiently explained 2. The Strategy of Conflict by Thomas Schelling (1960)So many profound ideas were first explained in this witty masterpiece: the bizarre logic of nuclear deterrence; the paradoxical value of being helplessly incommunicado or irrationally hotheaded; why negotiators split the difference or settle on a round number; why bribes and threats are so often veiled; the best way to rendezvous with someone if you made no plans and your mobile phones go dead.3. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffrey Pullum (2002)I go to this massive reference work to understand the logic of English. Unlike the primary linguistics literature, where you’ll find a mess of contradictory theories and a blizzard of jargon, this book analyses every grammatical construction in English in a consistent framework, with depth and insight that are nothing short of astonishing. I go to it for my research on language, my tinkering with definitions and usage notes for The American Heritage Dictionary (for which I’m chair of the usage panel) and for guidance in my own writing. Most of all, when I had to commit to a set of analyses and technical terms in my writing guide The Sense of Style, I adapted them from the Cambridge Grammar.4. Retreat from Doomsday by John Mueller (1989)It seemed foolhardy in 1989 to publish a book with the subtitle “The obsolescence of major war”, but in this punchy and wit-filled book Mueller correctly predicted the end of the cold war and the decline of interstate conflict. He also gave superb analyses of the periods of war and peace over the past two centuries and fascinating reflections on the nature of moral progress, such as the abolition of slavery. This book was a major inspiration for my own The Better Angels of Our Nature.5. The Beginning of Infinity by David Deutsch (2011)This 21st-century statement of the ideals of the Enlightenment offers fresh insight on a vast number of topics, including the workings of human cognition, the ways of science and the drivers of progress. Deutsch doesn’t labour to be provocative for its own sake and he never passes along the conventional wisdom: everything is thought through and patiently explained.Music: Paul Morley‘As a rock critic you’re writing about much more than music’ Paul Morley is a music journalist and television talking head. He wrote for the NME from 1977 to 1983 and has chronicled the era of British post-punk culture in several books on Joy Division. His part-memoir, part-biography, The Age of Bowie,was published last year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Morley: ‘Richard Meltzer made rock criticism an obsessive, dramatic and ultimately futile search for meaning.’ Photograph: Sarah Lee for the Guardian1. Awopbopaloobop Alopbamboom by Nik Cohn (1970)Cohn wrote this book aged 22 in seven committed weeks to the loud sound of Beethoven’s string quartet No 15 in A Minor, rather than the Little Richard, Dylan, James Brown, Beatles, Who and Stones he was vividly mythologising. Cohn helped me understand how exciting writing about pop could be. The old saying that writing about music is like dancing about architecture is wrong because, as Cohn made brilliantly clear, as a rock critic you are writing about much more than music – personality, appearance, illusion, myth, emotion, desire – and ultimately about yourself. Your response should be illuminating, exaggerated, inspired, serious, mischievous and put the reader somewhere new and special, like the music.2. The Aesthetics of Rock by Richard Meltzer (1970)This was another book ambitiously inventing a new form of writing, a new way of talking about art that fixed a fan’s intensity to a self-styled specialist knowledge. Briefly a philosophy student at Yale, Meltzer wasn’t afraid to consider that rock music was the world itself, a battle between purpose and purposelessness, and take it from there. It made rock criticism an obsessive, dramatic and ultimately futile search for meaning, an epic contemplation of possibilities. Meltzer advocated writing as a performance that mixed enthusiasm, insight, mystery and a weirdly focused sense of absurdity. The idea of writing as a projection of your own personality, became, for better or worse, a major factor in my own writing. Arts in Society's pioneering essays on style, pop and art were a big influence on me as a 20-year-old writer at the NME 3. Silence: Lectures and Writings by John Cage (1961)A timeless book about ideas that is itself full of ideas, a series of conceptual invitations. In the early 70s, when it was hard to actually hear any Cage music, I thought of him as being as much a writer as a musician, and not just about music, but about the mind, performance, pleasure, the future. After the influence of Meltzer and Cohn, and their indirect connection with the new journalism of Wolfe, Mailer, Didion and Sontag, my search for an innovative form of nonfiction writing led to the poetic, provocative Cage. It was never just about what he said but how he said it, his experiments with form as well as content.4. Stockhausen: Conversations With the Composer by Jonathan Cott (1973)I choose this as much for its influence as a book about the nature of the interview as for the ego, spirit and cosmic timing of musical illusionist Karlheinz Stockhausen, and for its enigmatic blue cover and minimal Picador elegance, which as a 16-year-old were irresistible. The way Cott, a writer for Rolling Stone, slipped through the looking glass into star man Stockhausen’s slightly menacing other world, burned the idea of the interview into my mind and it became something I wanted to do as much as being the personality rock critic – spend time with favourite musicians, having their glamour rub off on me, but also get some clues about life, living and other mysteries.5. Arts in Society Edited by Paul Barker (1977)This wonderful book compiles the stimulating, idealistic writings of weekly magazine New Society, first published in 1962, which expanded the radical approaches to popular culture and mass media initiated by Walter Benjamin, Roland Barthes and Richard Hoggart. It included pioneering essays on style, pop, art, TV and architecture by Angela Carter, George Melly and John Berger, all of them performers and entertainers in their own way. These were a strong influence on me as a new 20-year-old writer at the NME, serious about the role of critic and trying to bring speculative urgency into writing about rock. It’s original thinking and writing about art that was often itself art and remains invigorating today.History: David Olusoga‘Malcolm X’s book is one of the great indictments of US racism’British Nigerian historian David Olusoga is co-author of The Kaiser’s Holocaust (2011), and author of The World’s War (2014). He produces radio and television programmes for the BBC that investigate ideas of colonialism, slavery and racism in military history and in contemporary anglophone culture.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Olusoga: ‘Malcolm’s X’s autobiography is one of the great literary indictments of racism.’ Photograph: Martin Godwin for the Guardian1. The Autobiography of Malcolm X (1965) As for many people who write about race, this book was life-changing for me. It’s really two books in one, and strictly speaking neither of them is an autobiography. The introduction and epilogue, by Alex Haley (of Roots fame), could easily stand alone as a poignant snapshot of Malcolm X in his final years. The main body of the book is the fruit of more than 50 face-to-face interviews and plots how the young Malcolm Little is transformed, first into the Harlem criminal Detroit Red and then, via the US prison system, into the black Muslim Malcolm X. Over the months of interviews Malcolm bared his soul to Haley but often his accounts of others are the most telling: he describes the heyday and decline of his gangland boss “West Indian Archie”, the character of his closest friend, “Shorty”, and the suffering of his own parents; his father was murdered by the KKK. Alongside Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man, this is one of the great literary indictments of American racism. You can't get a rounded sense of the age of empire – the audacity and the horror – without reading Conrad 2. The Origins of Totalitarianism by Hannah Arendt (1951) Arendt is better known today for her 1963 book Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil. But, to me, her greatest work is this 1951 classic. Much of my historical work focuses on the idea of linkage; that what happens in colonies and on distant battlefields seeps back into Europe. More than any thinker it was Hannah Arendt who identified how those movements of ideas, racial theories, people and methods takes place, showing how they fused with other forces – most notably European antisemitism – to shape and ultimately disfigure the 20th century.3. Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad (1899) You can read this in a day but you can then spend years reading the many books written about it – few novels in history have generated so much speculation and debate. That’s because as well as being one of the most compelling and shocking novels, it is also a brilliant exercise in ambiguity. Whose voice do we hear, the unnamed narrator or the witness to events, Marlow? Where is the book set? Conrad never mentions Africa or the Congo but talks of a great river in a great continent. The biggest mystery of all is who – if anyone – was the central character, Kurtz, based upon? A whole array of possible contenders, men whom Conrad may have met during his time in the Congo, have been assembled by historians. To me it is impossible to get a rounded sense of the age of empire – the audacity and the horror – without reading Conrad.4. Straw Dogs: Thoughts on Humans and Other Animals by John Gray (2007)Since Darwin, millions of people have come to terms with the idea that humans are little different from other animals. In Straw Dogs John Gray forces us to examine the difficult corollaries of that easy statement. It’s a book that’s become infamous for its pessimism yet I’ve always found it enormously liberating, as it challenges so many of my own unexamined assumptions. Gray dissects humanity’s seemingly innate need for the consolation of religion, our addiction to the myth of progress and our Darwin-proof belief that we “belong to a species which can be master of its own destiny”. This, the so-called “philosopher of pessimism” warns us, is “faith not science”.5. The Collected Essays, Journalism and Letters of George Orwell Vols 1-5Orwell is a victim of his own versatility. Because he transitioned from journalist to novelist his posthumous fame centres on the novels 1984 and Animal Farm. Yet for most of his life Orwell was a working journalist and eloquent witness to the political ructions of the 1930s and 1940s. These volumes of his collected journalism are not merely a masterclass in journalistic prose, they’re history written in real time. No one skewered the hypocrisies of his age with greater precision and no one was more willing to own up to his own mistakes and misplaced loyalties. In my view, if you’re a journalist and Orwell isn’t one of your heroes then something’s gone wrong.