The Old People say, “when we leave this world behind all we leave behind is our story, so make it the best story possible.”How many of us, hand on heart with sincerity, depth and honesty, can say we have meaning in our life, that we 100% know our purpose. If you were told by your doctor you had 24 hours to live, would you be able to say with confidence you have lived the best story possible?For some Aboriginal people, we call our story our Dreaming or our Dreaming Path. Our Dreaming is our purpose in this life. It provides us with meaning.My day is full of colour and meaning. My Dreaming is strong. Every day there are a multitude of 10/10 moments that expose themselves to me and put the 2/10 moments in their rightful place. But as I look around me, I see far too many people Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal living in a world of grey. They have no meaning and they don’t have their Dreaming.My life wasn’t always big screen technicolour.When I was 34 years old, I was the Aboriginal success story. I had three qualifications, two jobs, two kids, two cars, a house and married to the love of my life. I was the contemporary societal Aboriginal prototype. I didn't understand how special it was to be Aboriginal until I was 17 | @IndigenousX I was living the Dream. But I wasn’t living my Dreaming. On the day of my 35th birthday I sat on some steps and cried. The tears continued for many months. The psychiatrist diagnosed major depression and anxiety neurosis. I went and researched these sinister words ... and the darkness went several shades darker. The labels were many and pessimistic. Reading about depression made me more depressed. I was told there was no cure and that this was a permanent gig. The Black Dog growled and I bowed. The role of Master had been reversed.I sat on the water’s edge and thought, this is the moment to end it. There was no fanfare, no eloquent final words, no audience pleading with me to stay. I would just sneakily end my life so those I loved could get on with theirs and not have the continued pressure of looking after this permanently disabled emotional cripple. But then a random thought betrayed my diabolical plan. “Maybe I don’t need to believe the labels. Maybe I can learn from this experience and prove them wrong.”Move forward 16 years and I am on stage as a CEO of a large training organisation. I have responsibility for 23,000 students, 1,200 staff and a budget of $60m per annum. We have just been awarded Large Training Provider of the Year in NSW and will later be acknowledged as one of the top three in Australia.The platform for this transformation from rags to riches wasn’t anything you will find in our contemporary health or education system. The profound event that saved my life, gave me life and gave me meaning was being taken bush by Aboriginal traditional knowledge owners. Over many years they have given me insights and learning that the modern world would consider unimportant in the scheme of things but are in fact priceless. From the moment we are born, everything that surrounds us tells us to consume to be happy. If we don’t have the right fashion, technological gadget, vehicle, house, holiday or job, then we become despondent. We become consumed by the pressure to fit in and be liked.The Old People say “we will always be given what we need, not what we want”. By continually wanting, we chain ourselves to the treadmill of “busyness”. Our story is no longer our own.After my breakdown, I realised I had been living everyone’s expectations and from that day on, have been able to walk my footsteps with ownership, purpose and acceptance of consequences. I have found my colours and am living my story. The bark of the Black Dog is worse than its bite once you know why it has appeared.The wisdom I have been given has been so profound and universal, that I have written a book called Iridescence – Finding Your Colours and Living Your Story with a view to sharing some of my learning. The Old People talk about the concept of “Nupitjee, Nupitjee”. It says I must always give, I must always share. If everyone in society gives, then we all receive. The words in iridescence reflect “Nupitjee, Nupitjee.” By sharing the wisdom of the world’s oldest living culture I am hoping to achieve two things.More people throughout the world can find their colours and live their story, and by doing so the world is a better place. An increased understanding of Aboriginal culture will create increased insight into the barriers Aboriginal face to achieving their Dreaming in contemporary society and an increased willingness to do what is right rather than what is popular for our people.Growing up I didn't speak my own language, and it made me feel ashamed | Angelina Joshua Imagine a world with no gaols, no castles, no fences, no theft, no greed, no poverty, no hunger, no homelessness and no debt. Where every child has over 50 people to care for them, where everyone has a purpose, where old people are respected and cared for, where the learning system gives you everything you need to achieve wellbeing mind, body and spirit. This world existed for over 100,000 years in Aboriginal Australia.This “almost too good to be true world” was maintained for such a long period due to the sophistication, adaptability, rigour and fitness for purpose of traditional learning systems, governance systems and leadership practices.I live in two worlds. I have been going bush for many years and so have a basic understanding of some of the traditional world in my region. I also have a bachelor of commerce degree majoring in accounting and economics plus qualifications in a number of areas including governance, leadership, training, emotional intelligence and executive coaching. I understand the contemporary world but just don’t agree with it. Particularly given I was a victim of it. I believe there is a great deal of merit in bringing the two worlds together.The Old People say, “if you come to me knowing everything, I can give you nothing but if you come to me knowing nothing, I can give you everything.” Our Old People are happy to share if people are willing to listen. Are you willing to listen?Iridescence – Finding Your Colours and Living Your Story can be ordered through www.culturalconsultancy.com.au with $10 of every purchase going to IndigenousX.“Our stories, our way” – each week, a new guest hosts the @IndigenousX Twitter account to discuss topics of interest to them as Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander people. Produced with assistance of Guardian Australia staff. 