VicelandFrom 6amExpect skewering perspectives aplenty as Vice’s 24-hour TV channel arrives on British tellyboxes. Among the offerings are US marijuana doc Weediquette and an exploration of the new-money glitz and varied cuisine of Orlando with foodie Eddie Huang. For British viewers, however, tonight’s highlight may well be watching Vice UK’s “TS Eliot of rave” Clive Martin resurrect his nightlife strand Big Night Out in the unlikely location of Ukraine. Hannah J DaviesThe Battle for the Labour Party: Dispatches 7.30pm, Channel 4Next Saturday, Labour will announce the winner of its interminable leadership contest (and in doing so, on current form, effectively announce the beginning of its next interminable leadership contest). If you can stand further argument over the custody of Labour’s soul, Antony Barnett’s film looks at how the party got itself into its present mess, and ponders how – or if – it can become a functional opposition once more. Andrew MuellerDante & the Invention of Hell 8pm, Sky ArtsThis boldly grandiose guide to Inferno for Sky Arts’ Italian Week leads us through Dante’s poem section by section, with the help of experts on the work itself and the art it inspired: Rodin, Dalí, Botticelli, Giotto. The programme-makers’ solution to what to show us apart from artworks and academics won’t be for everyone: they’ve gone for self-consciously intense dramatisations with a performance art bent. Good primer, though. Jack SealeCold Feet 9pm, ITVThree episodes in, Mike Bullen’s dramedy reboot has found its groove. Principally, that’s because, after an opener that came across as a frantic James Nesbitt vehicle, it’s back to being an authentic ensemble piece – and one with real depth as its characters deal with the difficulties, disappointments and general sagginess of middle-aged life. Tonight, David faces an early morning trip to the cop shop and a lapse in judgment causes problems for Jenny. Jonathan WrightSecrets of the SAS 9pm, Channel 5 With military interest in the welfare of SAS operatives historically ending the moment they leave for Civvy Street, readjusting to a life where lethal force is no longer an occupational option is no simple task. Former SAS soldier Yorky Crossland recounts the six-week mission to pre-war Iraq that left him changed for ever. For many, surviving outside the SAS – beset by PTSD and ghosts of their former lives – can prove as gruelling as any mission. Mark Gibbings-JonesWho’s Afraid of Conceptual Art 9pm, BBC4Art historian Dr James Fox is sceptical of art that prioritises ideas over end results. As part of BBC4’s conceptual season, he has been invited to ponder Marcel Duchamp et al and assess the appeal of their work. The premise smacks of reverse provocation – Fox is too embedded in his own rarefied cultural niche to be an everyman figure – but he’s an erudite presence whose opinions are nonetheless worth hearing. Phil HarrisonThe R&B Feeling: The Bob Parks Story 10pm, BBC4“The late 60s was either sex or self-mutilation,” says British performance artist Bob Parks, who would walk the streets of Los Angeles in a bikini after his marriage fell apart and his art career collapsed – before eventually heading home to the New Forest to live with his parents. This poignant film explores his journey to personal redemption via an LA gospel choir and his relationship with his dying mother. Ali CatterallFilm choiceOut of the Furnace (Scott Cooper, 2013) 9pm, Film4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sombre story … Out of the Furnace. Photograph: Allstar/Relativity Media/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarThe shadow of The Deer Hunter looms over this gloomy tale of warring steel mill folk. In the rundown town of Braddock, Casey Affleck’s Iraq veteran makes a living in bareknuckle bouts, while haunted big brother Christian Bale tries to look out for him. With manly support from Willem Dafoe, Woody Harrelson and Sam Shepard, this is a sombre story complemented by grainy 35mm film. Paul HowlettCourt (Chaitanya Tamhane, 2014) 1.05am, Channel 4There’s a Kafkaesque tone to this satire about white-bearded, 65-year-old folk singer and campaigner Narayan Kamble (Vira Sathidar), who is charged with inciting the suicide of a Mumbai sewer worker. The absurdities of the case are comically obvious, but this a serious indictment of an obsolete justice system, and provides a wider social context when the camera follows defence and prosecution counsels to their homes. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Eneco Tour Coverage of stage one of the race in Netherlands and Belgium. 1.30pm, Eurosport 1ATP Tennis: The St Petersburg Open Coverage of the opening day of the indoor tournament from Sibur Arena in Russia. 3.30pm, Eurosport 1La Liga Football: Alavés v Deportivo La Coruña The recent victors over Barcelona host underachieving La Coruña. 7.40pm, Sky Sports 1