Anton Yelchin, Star Trek actor, dies in car accident at age 27 Anton Yelchin, one of Hollywood’s most engaging young stars, has died at the age of 27 in a car accident. Despite a short career, the actor left an indelible impression on the industry, switching between studio films and indies, always stretching his scope and impressing with his talent. Here are some of his key roles.Hearts in Atlantis (2001)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At the age of just 11, Yelchin proved that he could comfortably hold the screen opposite Anthony Hopkins in Scott Hicks’ adaptation of Stephen King’s fantastical drama. He avoided the precocious child stereotype and hinted at great things to come. Alpha Dog (2006)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Anton Yelchin: actor of cherubic charm who inspired huge affection | Peter Bradshaw While Ben Foster might have nabbed the showier role, Yelchin was the tragic heart of this fact-based tragedy about the kidnap and murder of a teenage boy. He added depth to the role of a child growing up fast amid an escalating set of terrible circumstances.Charlie Bartlett (2007)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As the lead in this indie comedy drama, he was finally gifted the limelight and he took to it with ease, acting alongside Robert Downey Jr and undoubtedly coming out on top. He also showed that he could ground any situation, no matter how farcical, and make us easily identify with whichever character he was playing.Star Trek (2009)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest His progression to blockbusters was well-orchestrated with a funny role as Chekov in JJ Abrams’ thrilling reboot of the dusty sci-fi saga. He added his, by now, trademark light touch and delivered one of the most memorable turns in a large ensemble.Like Crazy (2011)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 2011, he graduated to more adult roles and this painful drama about a prolonged long distance relationship gave him his finest performance to date. He was one half of the tortured couple, along with Felicity Jones, and he made his character’s heartbreak feel believably raw. Fright Night (2011)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Underseen, and unfairly cast off as yet another remake, this witty and scary redo of the 80s comedy horror, expertly walked the tightrope between the two genres. Yelchin played the geeky kid who suddenly becomes part of the cool crowd who has to contend with his vampiric neighbour, and he showcased a natural comic touch yet again.Only Lovers Left Alive (2013)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He continued to spend most of his time working in independent cinema and acted for Jim Jarmusch in this elegant tale of vampires in decaying Detroit. He had a small role but he held his own against Tilda Swinton and Tom Hiddleston and was a believably grungy rocker.Green Room (2016)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest His most recent, and arguably most accomplished, role was the lead in this gruesomely entertaining horror film. Yelchin plays a band member facing off against neo-Nazis and he showed himself to be a charming lead, maturing into a man after breaking out as a young boy 15 years prior.