John Grant – Grey Tickles, Black PressureI can’t make a playlist without including John Grant. This is the title track from his new album Grey Tickles, Black Pressure which hasn’t been off my car stereo since it came out last year. John Grant is such an incredible songwriter but above all I love his lyrics. This song’s title is made up of two terms – the Icelandic word for midlife crisis which translates as “grey tickles” and the Turkish for nightmares which translates into “black pressure”. The opening line: “I did not think I was the one being addressed, in haemorrhoid commercials on the TV set,” has to be one of the finest opening lyrics of all time. Funny, self deprecating and honest.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Shocking Blue – Never Marry a Railroad ManMariska Veres has my favourite voice. I love how smooth and rich it is, with no vibrato, she hits the notes is a very pure way. Shocking Blue are an underrated band, most famous for writing Venus, as covered by Bananarama, but they have a swathe of other great songs which touch on garage psyche, country pop and folk, all topped off by her wonderful vocals. I could have picked half a dozen but I like the sentiment of Never Marry a Railroad Man.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Creatures – So UnrealSiouxsie Sioux and Budgie’s side project from The Banshees. Siouxsie is the ultimate British female pop icon, sharp lyrics and staccato vocals. Budgie is one of the most interesting drummers in the world. He uses drum sounds melodically as well as rhythmically which makes this drum/vocal duo work. You can hear their passion for each other in these recordings, they are so alive, despite being so minimal. I saw Budgie drumming with John Grant earlier in the year and he is still incredible.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Saint Etienne – Over the BorderA track from 2012’s Words and Music by Saint Etienne, Over the Border sends shivers down my spine. I love spoken word tracks. Sarah Cracknell’s delivery is so familiar and comforting, like stepping back into my childhood bedroom. Saint Etienne were a massive influence on The Long Blondes and on my solo album.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lonelady – HinterlandJulie Campbell, aka Lonelady, is one of the most interesting artists in the UK. This was my album of 2015. The diverse influences on her sound from post-punk to pop, funk and dance create a unique sound and she achieves something difficult with Hinterland in making a psychogeographical record. I’m in awe and can only aspire to make something this good.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kate Jackson performs at Tramlines festival, Sheffield, on 23 July.