Gogol Bordello – Start Wearing PurpleGogol Bordello shows are always thrilling, and Start Wearing Purple has been a favourite for over a decade. I’ve wanted them to play the festival for years; it’s going to be wild!   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Charles Bradley and His Extraordinaires – ChangesCharles Bradley is one of the most charismatic soul singers performing today. He’s survived poverty and homelessness and oozes passion with every note, facial expression and stage move. His version of Changes brings out emotions you’d never expect from a Black Sabbath song.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Songs of Separation – Echo Mocks the CorncrakeSongs of Separation is a special performance by 10 leading female folk musicians from Scotland and England, reflecting on the issue of separation in its many forms, through traditional song. Celebrating the similarities and differences in our musical, linguistic and cultural heritage, and set in the context of the referendum and rising prejudice towards immigration, this performance is set to be a festival highlight. I’ve also programmed a discussion with members of the band, to examine their motivations and messages behind the music.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Mike + Ruthie Band – What Are We Waiting forPart of the pleasure of programming Cambridge is being able to introduce new artists, our audience’s willingness to embrace them, and seeing them go on to future success. Bright As You Can went on repeat as soon as I heard it and this will be The Mike + Ruthie Band’s first major English appearance.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Megson – Generation RentThis award-winning Cambridge-based duo, famed for their show for children, took me by surprise with the power and political undercurrent on their new album, Good Times Will Come Again. As Stu Hanna fed me tracks throughout the recording process, I came to realise that it was likely to be their strongest yet and had to include them in the lineup. The Cambridge folk festival runs from 28 – 31 July. 