The land manager and naturalist Dick Balharry, who has died aged 77 of cancer, was an effective advocate both for conserving the environment of Scotland’s mountains and for persuading people to regard them as their own, both figuratively and politically. A turning point came when he visited the National Parks of the Midwest in the US and Canada in 1969: the experience fuelled a desire to drive change and promote the benefits and joys of Scotland’s natural heritage to a wider audience. In the process he became one of Scotland’s most accomplished public speakers, regularly appearing on television as a presenter and expert.In 1970 he became the Nature Conservancy Council’s chief warden responsible for the management of much of the Scottish Highlands. The purchase for the nation in 1985 of Creag Meagaidh, now one of nine national nature reserves in and around the Cairngorms National Park, proved a significant step. Dick worked tirelessly to control its deer, in order to encourage the regeneration of native woodland; the outcome is the wonderfully wooded mountain landscape reaching up from Loch Laggan.At the privately owned Glenfeshie shooting estate in the Cairngorms, he worked with the owner and managers to reduce the number of deer, again with benefits for the rejuvenation of wild land. In accepting the Royal Scottish Geographical Society’s Geddes Environmental medal there shortly before his death, he called for a collaborative approach to wild deer management; this should influence the Scottish government’s land reform programme.Born in the village of Muirhead of Liff, on the north-western outskirts of Dundee, Dick was the son of David, a builder, and Mary (nee Guild), a housekeeper. He was largely self-taught in wildlife ecology, and worked first as an under-keeper in Argyll, and then as a stalker for the Red Deer Commission.His big break came in 1962, when he joined the NCC as warden of Beinn Eighe, Britain’s first national nature reserve, with a cluster of mountain peaks and ancient pinewoods by Loch Maree in Wester Ross. His empathy with wild animals stemmed partly from observing young or injured animals, including pine martens, wild cats and ravens, and hand-rearing them. Encounters with elusive animals and studies made by scores of visiting researchers shed light on conservation matters such as the effects of pesticides on birds of prey. Dick also helped with studies of peat, pollen and the impact of fire.All of this contributed to a better understanding of the development of this rugged landscape and its wildlife, and to effective conservation strategies, later detailed in Beinn Eighe: The Sawtoothed Mountain (2001), written with Laughton Johnston.In 1991 his employer became Scottish Natural Heritage, and six years later he retired from it as area manager. In pursuit of his aim of connecting more people with nature, he chaired the John Muir Trust (2003-10), a charity devoted to protecting wild places, and he was a council member of the National Trust for Scotland, serving as its interim chair in 2009-10. He was a trustee of the West Highland Coastal Trust, closely involved in outdoor environmental education for youngsters, president of the Ramblers Association Scotland and chair of the local access forum for the Cairngorms National Park.Appointed MBE in 1996, and given an honorary DSc by Abertay University in 2010, Dick was happiest in good company on the hill. To the recently published collection Nature’s Conscience: The Life and Legacy of Derek Ratcliffe, he contributed a lively account of his work at Beinn Eighe with his friend and colleague, describing a female golden eagle, “suspended motionless directly above us, her head dipped as if trying to penetrate the dark shadowy depths below. Then, suddenly and dramatically, she closed her wings and fell. She must have dropped over 2,000ft before her wings eased open, with the resistance to the rushing air loudly adding to the drama we were witnessing.”In 1962 he married Adeline (nee Croal). He is survived by her, their son, David, daughter, Dawn, and grandsons, Ryan and Ross.• Richard Balharry, conservationist, born 3 September 1937; died 22 April 2015