How, mostly, do you listen to music?I’m pretty old-fashioned and still have shelves full of CDs, which I generally listen to in the kitchen on my Ruark music system. My favourite time to put music on is first thing in the morning. It can change the course of the day depending on what gets into your system when you’re still half asleep. I have tried to download albums, but it never seems to work.What was the first recording you bought?The first record that was bought for my sister and me was Kermit the Frog’s Rainbow Connection. Apart from the fact that it is a genius song, the record was bright Kermit green. “Some day we’ll find it, the rainbow connection, the lovers, the dreamers, and me” … pretty thought-provoking for a six-year-old.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Rainbow Connection from The Muppet MovieWhat’s your musical guilty pleasure?Probably listening to my husband’s [Julian Ovenden] recordings when he’s out. Guilty because he would be pretty embarrassed if he knew how much praise I have for his singing. What single thing would improve the format of the classical concert?More interaction with the audience, breaking up the odd, starchy atmosphere of some concert and recital halls. In the pop world, artists are constantly talking to their audiences. Hearing the performer speak about the music really helps to break down the formal barrier (but I have to admit the thought of talking to my audience scares me witless). The idea that as classical musicians we have to be musical intellectuals as well as performers puts me off. The same goes for opera – I think audiences often feel shut out, and directors need to work harder to explain their concepts to the paying public, be it through pre-performance talks or programme notes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Kate Royal sing from The Magic Flute with Michael Nagy and the Berlin PhilharmonicDid you ever consider a career outside music?I didn’t ever consider another career. I was pretty focused from a young age and wasn’t encouraged to look out of my bubble. If I did go back I would love to have trained more in the world of athletics. I have a lot of drive and patience and I think the requirements of a singer are not that dissimilar to those of an athlete. Apart from the regular trips to the doughnut shop.If you had to pick one work to introduce someone to the wonders of classical music, what would it be?It would have be Mahler’s Resurrection Symphony. I have experimented with it with my kids and they get pretty excited in the fifth movement. I have performed it many times and had the fortune to be sitting on stage among the brass. It just is an amazing experience to witness a group of people rise to such a climax and feel the earth vibrating.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Claudio Abbado conducts Mahler’s Symphony No 2 ‘Resurrection’What do you sing in the shower?I’m sad to say it, but I don’t sing in the shower or around the house. I have a strange relationship with my voice. Because it’s my livelihood I tend to rest it completely when I have the opportunity. I do sometimes long to have that relationship detangled. Perhaps a booth for one at Lucky Voice and a bottle of gin would do the trick.If you had a time machine, which moment in musical history would you travel to?I would like to be transported to Prague on 28 October 1787, the eve of the premiere of Don Giovanni, as Mozart rushed out the composition of the overture in order to hear the completed work the following day. To have gone to the post-show dinner and hung out and got drunk with Wolfgang…What’s the most unusual place you’ve ever performed?I sang a section of Mozart’s Requiem for the BBC’s Holocaust memorial documentary. We filmed in the snow in a disused arms factory in Auschwitz. Needless to say a pretty overwhelming experience.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kate Royal sings at AuschwitzWhat’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?I was recently lucky enough to hear Tony Bennett sing at Buckingham Palace. I was sitting perhaps 10 feet from him. I was blown away by his ability to tell a story, to mix speech and song with such fluency. He showed how silence in music is so important. To sing a phrase and then let it land and allow the meaning to resonate. Sounds simple, but it’s not.What was the last piece of music you bought?Laura Marling, Short Movie: a brilliant album. We are so overwhelmed with manufactured rubbish and it’s good to know that true artistry can still win through. Her voice is not overwhelming, but her lyrics and what she does with them is pretty moving.What’s the most overrated classical work? Is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to?If I have to hear Lakmé’s bastardised flower duet one more time on a BA flight, I might seriously consider a switch to easyJet.Kate Royal sings Helena in Britten’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream at Glyndebourne, 11-28 August.