Lawrence of Arabia’s dashing white silk robes and a magnificent steel and silver dagger – presented to him after the capture of Aqaba – are at risk of being exported from the UK unless new buyers can be found. The culture minister, Ed Vaizey, placed temporary export bars on two of TE Lawrence’s most famous possessions on Tuesday.They were sold at auction last year to overseas buyers and will be lost to Britain unless an individual or museum can match the asking price of £122,500 for the dagger and £12,500 for the robes.Lawrence, an archaeologist and diplomat, became famous for his daring exploits as a military liaison officer during the 1916-18 Arab revolt. Vaizey called him “one of the most extraordinary figures of the 20th century”. “These robes and dagger are absolutely iconic and a key part of his enduring image. It is important that these classic objects remain in the UK,” he said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lawrence’s white silk robes, which were presented to him after the capture of Aqaba. Photograph: DCMS/PAThe dagger was given to Lawrence in 1917 by Sherif Nasir after the victory at Aqaba in Jordan, an episode which sealed Lawrence’s reputation as a hero. It was a scene in the classic David Lean film with Omar Sharif, playing a version of Sherif Nasir, handing Peter O’Toole the dagger.Both the Arab jambiya dagger and the white robes will also be familiar to anyone who has seen Tate’s 1919 Augustus John painting of Lawrence, currently in the Tate Britain Artist and Empire show.The export licence bars were made on the recommendation of the Reviewing Committee on the Export of Works of Art and Objects of Cultural Interest. Its chairman, Sir Hayden Philips, said: “Although the depiction, in the film Lawrence of Arabia, of Lawrence leading a sweeping camel charge across the desert into Aqaba in 1917 is probably a romantic exaggeration – stunning though it is – the taking of Aqaba from the landward side, with the help of [Arab allies], was an extraordinary feat and marked a crucial turning point in the campaign. “The dagger was presented to Lawrence by Sherif Nasir in gratitude for Lawrence’s leadership and as a spontaneous mark of respect. The robes and dagger together form a crucial part of the images of Lawrence in painting, sculpture and photographs; and they are therefore an integral part of his life and our history.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The dagger was sold at auction last year for £122,500. Photograph: DCMS/PALawrence posed in the robes, with the dagger, for the sculptor and society hostess Lady Kathleen Scott, widow of Scott of the Antarctic, in 1921.The sitting came after a chance encounter between them at Waterloo station. She would write to him that she once spotted him at the ballet without knowing his identity - “you had a turban on and I think I thought you had been born in it”.Lawrence agreed but insisted she not “do me as Colonel Lawrence (he died Nov 11 1918) ... ” She ignored the request and depicted him in full Arab dress with his dagger at his waist.Lawrence left both dagger and robes behind after his final session so that Scott could continue working. Despite a polite request in 1922 for them to be returned – “There’s a little artist wants to do an Arab picture, & has asked me for kit,” he wrote. “Do you think you could provide some from your store?” – they have remained in her family’s possession and were sold at Christie’s after the death of Scott’s daughter-in-law, Elizabeth Ann Young, Lady Kennet.The decision to allow time for UK bids was made on the grounds of the items’ close association with British history and national life.There have been countless biographies on Lawrence, varying assessments of his “genius” and disputes over key moments in his life. For example, one of the most appalling incidents, hinted at in the movie, was when he claimed to be the victim of torture and a brutal sex attack by Turkish soldiers in 1917 at the Syrian fortress town of Deraa.A book by James Barr in 2006 claimed instead that Lawrence never went to Deraa and invented the attack to smear political opponents and fulfil his own sado-masochistic urges.His biographer Scott Anderson, meanwhile, suggests that Lawrence may have submitted to rape to avoid further torture and afterwards embroidered the story to absolve his “guilt”.The decision on the export licence has been deferred until 1 April and may, the government said, be extended further if serious intentions to raise the money are expressed.• This article was amended on 10 February 2016 to clarify ownership of Lawrence’s dagger and robes.