Recently, my partner and I had our second child and, over the subsequent weeks, as is often the case, we barely slept. What I didn’t expect was that, in the zombie hours at the edge of night, the harrowing cries of our newborn baby would keep pulling me back to something dark, distant and seemingly unrelated. Bloodborne.From Software’s 2015 masterpiece, a dark action adventure set in a plague-ridden gothic metropolis, is a towering achievement of interactive media, but it is also a grim and intimidating challenge requiring at least 50 hours to appreciate. During that time, players discover that a core theme of the game is progeny, covering the whole gamut, from birth to infanticide. Not for the first time, I realised the director, Hidetaka Miyazaki, thinks of everything.I’ll never stop playing video games but, with two kids, there are no longer enough hours in the day to play games like this. Some might call my tastes “hardcore”; I go for games with deep systems that slowly unfold over dozens and dozens of hours, ones where your mastery of the controls, mechanics and possibilities only ever increase. From Counter-Strike to Rocket League, I love games you can invest in. I’d already sunk hundreds of hours into Bloodborne before the birth of my second child, but what first inspired my return was that motif of an infant’s harrowing cry. The baby in this game is called Mergo, the offspring of an unholy liaison between humanity and the deity-like Great Ones. Mergo’s cries are initially heard in one of the nightmare realities you find in the late game, but when your character has acquired enough of one of Bloodborne’s trippy metaphysical commodities, Insight, the infant’s shrieking seeps into every strata of the world. I’d spend my days changing nappies and trying to comfort a screaming baby; then, when she slept, I’d sneak back to Bloodborne’s cursed township of Yharnam to listen to another.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   As this is a horror game, beasthood is eventually realised literally, but is presented as something innate to humanity. Photograph: Sony Computer EntertainmentThe nature and fate of Mergo’s birth is of enormous consequence in Bloodborne’s world, but the interpretation is up to the player. This is one of the great powder kegs in Miyazaki’s storytelling technique: introduce big themes, imply certain solutions, and then leave room for the imagination. In FuturePress’s Bloodborne Collector’s Guide, Miyazaki said: “The story setup was something I came up with pretty readily in my mind. When it comes to living creatures, the stronger or more advanced you are, the fewer offspring you produce in your life. Even with human beings, the birth rates in more advanced countries are lower, right? Looking back, I wonder if facts like that were at the root of the idea.”Babies are beautiful but they’re also a source of enormous anxiety. No matter how your mind is set, the fears still hover, and when you become a parent you come to appreciate the purely biological nature of existence. At a basic level, the experience reminds us that we are animals.During Bloodborne’s development it had the working title Project Beast, and man’s inner nature is the crux of the whole thing. As this is a horror game, beasthood is eventually realised literally, but is presented as something innate to humanity: at the bottom of Bloodborne’s many different stories of human failure is denial or ignorance of this nature. My sleep-addled mind tuned back into this confluence of themes and, as with any great work, I began re-seeing Bloodborne, projecting my situation, re-immersing in the minutiae.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bloodborne’s combat system is a beauty, built around precision, aggression, and the irresistible flourishes of its ‘trick’ weapons. Photograph: Sony Computer EntertainmentI have played Miyazaki’s game over and over, peeling back the narrative layers, luxuriating in the asymmetrical multiplayer design (which allows players to leave messages for each other in their separate worlds) pushing ever-onwards and learning more in a quest that may well be endless. Imagine exploring a collapsing civilisation, where you piece together the history through what survives, and add new meaning to it through your actions. In assembling everything you play many roles, not least as actor and creator.When I realised I was saying goodbye to Bloodborne, I did so with a certain reverence, because this world had reverberated with some part of my mind. The Yharnam Stone came to symbolise this and soon lodged in my thinking, its proportions growing by the day. This is not a key item – unusually for the game it has no function whatsoever – but it is kind of a capstone to one thread and, more than that, a hunter’s memento. I’ve known it existed for ages but the challenge of obtaining it, an optional trek to the bottom of the labyrinthine Chalice Dungeons, became a rainy day project. Two children means less time to mess about, and so it became now or never. A common idea about games is they can be finished – completed, clocked, platinumed, whatever – and set aside, even though one of the qualities we prize most highly is replayability. One definition for the latter is how refined a given game’s controls and core moveset are. Replayability is not about how long you can play for, but whether you want to. Bloodborne’s combat system is a beauty, built around precision, aggression, and the irresistible flourishes of its “trick” weapons – which radically change form in a flash. My stolen hours were spent re-discovering the combat’s depths and excesses while moving slowly towards the goal. A highlight of these wail-filled weeks were those bubbles where once again I strode, a resplendent hunter of the Dream, towards a foul beast. The worst of all, fittingly, was the Defiled Watchdog of the Old Lords. This boss is a minor icon within the Bloodborne community, inasmuch as many regard it as the game’s toughest challenge. I had seen a million Reddit post titles about beating this thing before I faced it. A common experience, of course, with the Souls games. While the online elements of From Software’s titles are highly praised, and should be, it’s less well recognised how their design intersects with the fact that contemporary audiences share online. The collective discourse on forums, reddits or whatever provides an outlet and a home base for obsessives on any topic, especially mysteries. These communities acquire an accretive, piecemeal consciousness over time, the arena where new ideas are sent to be poked and tested. They serve as gathering points.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Could you defeat the Defiled Watchdog of the Old Lords? Photograph: Sony Computer EntertainmentLeaving messages that cross worlds is a core part of Souls and Bloodborne, and the idea of fellow travellers ties neatly into the way that recording and sharing in-game footage has become a central element of the culture. One of the major innovations of Sony’s Playstation 4, for which Bloodborne was an exclusive, was putting a dedicated ‘Share’ button on the controller. Across PCs and other platforms sharing our experiences – whether screenshots, gifs, videos or streaming – has never been more pervasive. We inevitably focus on the ‘success’ stories, the Pewdiepies and KSIs, but sharing is now so easy that it’s often ready-baked into the experience. Almost none of my favourite creators make a living from producing this stuff, but are hollowing-out a niche where we share an interest – like Redgrave, a brainbox Bloodborne enthusiast who, as well as writing an A+ guide to the game’s lore, has a fascinating YouTube series focusing on miniscule details. His excellent analyses are lucky to hit ten thousand views. I stream and post videos of Bloodborne to even tinier audiences, literally dozens of people, and so the only reason to do it is for its own sake. Showing off your skills is part of the charm, of course, and enjoying the more cordial nature of a small crowd – mates from real life popping in to say hello, social media friends, fellow Bloodborne nerds with Serious Build Questions. Something about it, for me anyway, echoes the mental space that siblings and friends had in childhood. When I was younger I’d play games with other kids all the time, but as an adult gaming is a more solo pursuit (until my daughters can hold controllers, that is). Multiplayer games can be played with mates, sure, but an adventure like Bloodborne attracts a particular player – and the fellow obsessives become your de facto companions. Everyone understands the comfort of being in familiar company and using shared jargon, a place where you say, “This is a Choir weapon but we’re in Mensis territory,” and get feedback rather than bemused expressions. A weakness of how we view the internet is to exaggerate the importance of every aspect, to declare sub-communities like this the new punk rather than, say, a nice side-effect of where mass media is going. But the enormous gaming population – so wide it cannot possibly be categorised – is often covered in terms of the extremist nutballs. However, what really motivates and binds together gaming’s many smaller communities is a shared love that’s in evidence everywhere. What Bloodborne players especially enjoy doing, like any fans, is swapping stories and theories. Miyazaki’s games are somewhat different from most in having a narrative designed to take advantage of this medium’s interactive nature. Most games suffer story as a necessary evil, a series of vignettes explaining why we’re blowing up the Middle East this time. At the heart of Bloodborne’s technique is a fundamental quality of language, and a new way for using it. Writing is a precise art but words are by their nature approximations of reality – something Lovecraft was fascinated by, incidentally – and so the greatest writers exploit this ambiguity, implying relationships and teasing out links while saying something else. The great revelation behind Miyazaki’s story design is allowing this characteristic to define the wider narrative structure. His plots contain mysteries or ambiguities that players, through their own actions, discover and interpret and solve in different ways. The point is not the lack of a definitive answer, but the multitude of plausible ones.Novelists and film-makers must take their audience on a journey; the director of a video game can also do this, or they can choose instead to be guide and travelling companion. There is a philosophical choice for a creator here. Do you want to tell great stories, or do you want to enable people to create their own? The idea of authorial control is pre-eminent to how we examine and value the stories of media, whether that’s in a structural sense or simply the idea that a narrative should tell us what happens. I’ve always preferred Oscar Wilde’s theory of the Critic as Artist which, among many other things, posits that interpretation ultimately creates any given work. The idea is now widespread enough to have its own school of literary theory (Reader-Response Criticism), but the abstract truth of the idea becomes concrete with the addition of player agency. The style of Souls and Bloodborne owes much to a lineage we group under “role-playing games”, but in their re-invention of the genre that idea of playing a role stays central. Every game’s player-character is a blank slate for you to draw on, but their actions and discoveries have consequences. The mix of hard details and mystery encourages simple conclusions and great flights of fancy, while your life-and-death struggles against terrible beasts become this story’s moments of high drama and heroism. To play a role is not merely to wear a costume and greasepaint, but to inhabit someone else and – in those moments – let go of ourselves. We overcome these odds and, in doing so, illustrate our own adventure. The infant’s harrowing cry and the Hunter’s Dream may frame it but, with that nod to Lovecraft, some things remain outside and unknowable. Bloodborne’s world is filled with such detail that the quest to parse it all would be infinite, but one end does lie in being content with these half-truths and ambiguities for what they are – the scaffolding for a story that, even if imaginary, is wholly mine. Such thoughts swirled around as the Defiled Watchdog of the Old Lords slaughtered my hunter again and again. The reason this boss is such a bottleneck is that you are ‘cursed’ to half health at the time you fight it, so most attacks are fatal. As an optional endgame exam, it functions beautifully, because it tests the basic skills of hitting and dodging to extremes. As I died to flying headbutts again and again, the Watchdog acquired a new resonance – my old hunter’s last great challenge. I died again and again. Don Quixote came to mind as my hunter, once more, rose from the lamp to face this terror. Here we were, two aging men marching in parallel to fight imaginary monsters, dreaming ourselves grander than reality. And I had this funny sense of a Sancho Panza, the great companion and enabler, somewhere behind the scenes, cheering me on. When the beast finally fell, as is written in the legends, I held the ‘share’ button and made a video. This last trip, perhaps, was all about mementoes.After the Defiled Watchdog, my path to the Yharnam Stone was relatively straightforward. The item is acquired by killing (and I know how bad this looks) the pregnant Queen Yharnam, whom we know from other ghostly appearances as Mergo’s mother, both her society’s last monarch and the chosen vessel for a Great One’s child. The stone has a short text description and a picture which, if you squint a bit, looks like a foetus. Bloodborne takes place in the town of Yharnam, the same name as this Queen. Why?Well that’s up to you. The monicker “Yharnam Stone” may suggest it is the town’s founding stone – but that’s ambiguous. Yharnam is a town built on blood, named after Queen Yharnam, and as players we discover the harrowing cry that haunts this place across realities comes from her child, Mergo. Other hunters hear it, too. Yharnam’s founders discovered the Queen but, in the god-like child she carried, did they see something to revere, or something to exploit? Near Bloodborne’s end the player does silence Mergo, but who knows whether this represents atonement or merely acquiescence in a grander, indecipherable scheme.The story of Mergo and Bloodborne has many pieces, and I could tell you all about them. But the picture we each create of this game is our own, inked with our own ideas and journeys. Gaze on some parts at an angle, and you catch yourself staring back. The imagination is often discussed as a refuge, a place to escape the real world. But so often its richness and power comes from life and makes our little burdens more bearable. My daughter’s just over two months old now, in robust health and a little more chilled out. The harrowing cries have faded, and at the same time, my hunter has done it all – or at least enough. Finally, this hardcore gamer has let go. I can leave Yharnam in peace. 