On Saturday, Hong Kong will play Russia in a rugby match that will go unnoticed across most of the world. The All Blacks are returning to Dublin intent on revenge, leaving little time to focus on rugby’s developing nations. Hong Kong player Ed Rolston understands the disparity between the two games in the rugby world’s consciousness more than most. Rolston was born and bred in Hong Kong, but spent every summer with his family in Ireland. He is incredibly proud of his roots but on Saturday his only focus will be on captaining Hong Kong.The game against Russia will be an exacting exam for which the Hong Kong players have studied relentlessly for more than two years. If Hong Kong beat Russia, who are ranked four places above them in the world rankings, it will be the first big step towards their goal of reaching the Rugby World Cup in 2019.Rolston embodies a Hong Kong squad that celebrates its diversity. The team includes players born and bred in Hong Kong, talented expats, and project players who nearly made the grade overseas and came to Hong Kong to try something new. The Hong Kong Rugby Union decided to invest in a full-time squad to give themselves the best possible opportunity to qualify. They brought in Leigh Jones as coach and he should understand the underdog mentality required, having been Japan’s defence coach in the last World Cup under Eddie Jones. There are many languages spoken in the changing room, whether it is Cantonese, English or a sprinkling of Afrikaans, but the players are all bound by their passion for playing for Hong Kong.Last Chance U: the college that gives young players a final route to the NFL Rolston grew up among the condensed streets of Hong Kong before his talents as a rugby player took him to Loughborough University and Leicester Tigers, where the physical education he received at the Tigers worked in tandem with his studies as a drama student. “It was hard to combine it all, but at that age you have a single-minded goal in your mind, and you just go out and do your best on the rugby field. I was playing and training with incredible players like George Ford and Manu Tuilagi, but I just didn’t make it. I came very close, but just didn’t get there. At the end of a process like that, where you’ve given so much of yourself, you wonder has your love for the game slipped away.”Rolston consumed plays throughout university as part of his degree, reading and writing voraciously between his training schedules. He performed in plays and started to think seriously about acting professionally. After his professional dreams ended in Leicester, he set off first to Los Angeles and then to London to tread the boards. He didn’t think about rugby for three and a half years. He could barely face throwing a ball around with his friends and only wanted to focus on acting. Rolston applied the same rigour in his acting as he had in the weights room as a rugby player. He auditioned for the last Star Wars film, but ultimately struggled with the unstable lifestyle. “I was moving from a very regimented life at Loughborough and the Tigers. I studied, I trained and I played rugby. Obviously, I made a lot of friends and enjoyed being a student too, but I had a good routine, working as an actor was always a challenge as you never knew where your next pay cheque was coming, but I knew I had to keep going as I had so much love for what I was doing.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ed Rolston, actor and Hong Kong international rugby player. Photograph: Rory FlintA job opportunity to work as a producer on an extreme sports film brought him home to Hong Kong, initially temporarily. After the film was finished, Rolston stayed on with his family and, as ever, rugby was at the back of his mind. “After I finished with Tigers, I was a bit burnt out. Like so many young people who go after a pro career and it doesn’t work out, we forget why we started playing this game that we once loved. I sat down at home and thought I’d just love to go out and play again for the fun of it. I asked my old club coach if I could come down and maybe play on the wing for the second XV and have a few beers.”Rolston’s impromptu decision to play social rugby on the wing with his friends on a Saturday snowballed into serious club rugby and, ultimately, a return to international rugby for Hong Kong, who gave him his first cap when he was just 17 to make him their youngest ever international. Rolston doesn’t think beyond the next game, but simply focuses on the joy of playing. “I consider myself so lucky to have made the return, because I have realised why I am playing – because I want to and I love the game. We have a lot of players like me for Hong Kong – guys all over the world who were very nearly there, but didn’t quite make it, but now just love the game and the freedom to play.”Hong Kong club rugby has benefited from strong overseas recruitment, including former England out-half Olly Barkley, who coaches Kowloon RFC, and academy players from New Zealand’s Waikato Chiefs. A full-time international squad trains together every day, living in close proximity to one another. In the claustrophobic concrete streets of Hong Kong, a rugby revolution is taking place. Rolston wants to leave a legacy that helps to grow the game in its streets. He continues to write fiction in his spare time, reaching a World Cup with Hong Kong would give him a script he could never have imagined.“Obviously the team’s big goal is to get to the World Cup but, beyond that, we want to inspire kids across Hong Kong to take up rugby and to help instil that love in the game. It’s nice to be able to say that, as maybe at one stage I had become jaded with the game, now every time I take the field I have a huge smile on my face, and I know it’s the same for the other players.” Out here in Kenya. @sgvalleyrfc represent. #chur #hkrugby #UceInBoots #NairobiSkiesAndSmokinGuys #NairobiNightsAndHugosTinderSwipes #nairobi #valley #laderoonies #giraffes #RedBlackAndSweatySacksA photo posted by Edmund Rolston (@edrolston) on Aug 20, 2016 at 5:33am PDTEvery year, Hong Kong features heavily on the rugby calendar for their annual sevens tournament that attracts the world’s best teams. In the 15-man code, they have often flown under the radar, overshadowed completely by superior Asian outfits such as Japan. However, Rolston and his team are convinced that victory against Russia could open a slight gap for them to make a line break, hopefully all the way to the World Cup in Japan.• This article is from Behind the Lines• Follow Jonathan Drennan on Twitter