I first came across Catherine LePage’s illustrated book browsing the aisles of my local bookstore. I do this most days, as a way to get myself out of bed, out of the house. After months of holding down temporary and contract jobs, I’d recently landed a full-time job, quit after a week in a fit of panic, and now found myself unemployed, unsure and more anxious than I’d been in my entire life.I found it propped up in the small self-help section, tucked away in the back corner of the store. On approach, a young woman, flicking through a book on self-esteem, averted her gaze: a sign of mutual respect, sympathy or occasionally fear that I’d become accustomed to in frequenting this section over the past months. Among titles on self-compassion, mindfulness and personal transformation, LePage’s book caught my eye: a small hardback with an illustration of a porcupine trapped in a sea of hovering red balloons.How to talk to someone with anxiety | Guardian readers and Sarah Marsh I picked it from the shelf, opened the first page and read the opening line: “Are you anxious?”I turned the page. “I am.”What follows is a kind of illustrated guide to the everyday experience of living of anxiety. With her delicate sketches and personal observations, LePage seeks to capture our traits and thought patterns, our weaknesses and habits, and lay them bare on the page.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration by Catherine LePage: the Periodic Table of the Elements of Response. Photograph: Catherine Lepage/Chronicle BooksOn one page she maps out the Periodic Table of the Elements of Response: a tangled flow diagram of the word “If” linked in sprawling arrows in every direction. “Making a simple decision becomes impossible,” she writes. “I always simultaneously see two sides of the same coin. And sometimes find even more sides.” An illustration of two coins, one reading “the good side” and the other “the bad side” are joined in pencil to depict a pair of spectacles, looking out into the world.LePage illustrates the habits that trigger her anxiety – accruing fatigue, repressing emotions, setting too-high goals, accumulating responsibilities – and asks the question: “since I know the causes of my anxiety, why do I keep repeating unhealthy behaviours?”Like a storybook unfolding, she depicts the rise and fall of those with recurring anxiety, drawing the reader into a world where tiny figures jump and twirl and play with fire until, like a wind-up toy, they slump and fall.“It always ends up the same, and I have to face my biggest fear. Emptiness.” A girl cast overboard from her row boat tries to keep going but can only tread water. A lone figure stands trapped in a house of cards, living through other people’s eyes, afraid of judgment. An ice hockey player is captured mid-skate, frozen by indecision.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Making a simple decision becomes impossible,’ writes Lepage. Photograph: Catherine LePage/Chronicle BooksWe reach the emotional peak in the form of a confessional. “I’ve spent so many years repressing my feelings that I’ve lost touch with my emotions,” LePage writes. “I would like to change but I don’t know how and so I feel guilty for not being well. Me, the privileged one who has everything in life. Health, love, everything.”Like the experience of anxiety itself, the revelation does not offer release, and the book ends a few pages later: “I’m never satisfied. Finally, I’m only human.”Standing in the self-help aisle, I committed the first sin of bookstore browsing: I read the whole book. And, further insulting bookstore etiquette, I found myself crying.In a world where “worries” about money, relationships and success are normal markers of experience – where mental health is as best misunderstood and at worst stigmatised – it’s incredibly rare to find others who understand the experience of generalised anxiety. Trying to explain to friends that I’m cancelling dinner plans because I physically can’t muster the confidence to leave the house. Trying to hide my exhaustion at work, depleted from sleepless, worried nights. Physically drained from the constant wringing of hands and feet, the grinding of teeth, the constant racing heart. It’s almost impossible to explain the pervasive feeling of all things – all decisions, all possible outcomes, past, present and future – cascading through my mind, folding into themselves, forming a tighter and tighter ball until it feels as though all room to move or act or breathe has been squeezed out.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I physically can’t muster the confidence to leave the house’. Illustration by Catherine LePage. Photograph: Catherine Lepage/Chronicle BooksAnd on top of it all is that paralysing guilt of being anxious, being miserable and wanting, despite my privilege and comfort in life. Explaining that is hard. But somehow, through her simple words and pictures, LePage has found a way.The back cover of the book reads: “Thinly sliced and illustrated emotions are much easier to digest”, and perhaps LePage is onto something. You can find dense academic texts on the wiring of the anxious brain, and instructional tapes on breathing and mindfulness – but the power of LePage’s book lies not just in capturing the psychological condition, but the emotional experience that goes with it. To break down the everyday thoughts and moments of generalised anxiety – to lock them down on a page, to colour them in – somehow makes them feel a little less overwhelming.Before long, I’d passed the book on to my partner, my family, a few close friends, as a way of explaining myself and how I was feeling. They recommended it to others, started conversations, flipped through the pages and said, “Talk to me about this one”.And this, I thought, is all I was really looking for, browsing the self-help aisle that day. A book that not only helped me understand myself, but helped others understand me – and that, even for a moment, made me feel a little less alone.• Thin Slices of Anxiety by Catherine LePage is out now through Chronicle Books, distributed in Australia by Hardie Grant