You might die alone. In pain, frightened and confused. If you’re wealthy, you could be lucky enough to go when a private nurse is nearby. They’ll know how your body needs adjusting, what medication, at this point, will help you most. The luckiest of you might have family there too. But they will likely be absolutely clueless.Now we’ve got that out of the way, Chronic, Mexican writer-director Michel Franco’s subdued drama about end-of-life care, will be much easier to talk about. It administers all of these hard truths, but does so matter-of-factly. It stars Tim Roth as a palliative nurse who, over the course of the film, guides three terminal patients through their last weeks. He becomes, in many ways, closer to them than their families.Chronic began with Franco’s own experience of being gently supplanted. In 2010, his grandmother had a stroke and was confined to bed for six months before she died.“What was painful was that it was easier for my grandmother to communicate with the nurse,” says Franco. “The nurse would understand even without my grandmother having to talk. Because they connected, but also because of her experience. She was a professional: she wasn’t wary and heartbroken in the way we were. Then you feel like you’re being kept away, but by the situation, not by the nurse or the patient.“Once we were at my grandmother’s house and the nurse asked us to step out of the room so she could be cleaned. I turned to my father and said how strange the whole situation was. We were just asked by a stranger to step out and now she’s handling my grandmother. And we have to trust her. I asked him: ‘What kind of a person is doing that job?’”Franco wanted to find out. So he took his grandmother’s carer out to lunch and asked her what it was like making a living by being so close to death. He told her that he wanted to make a film about the experience. She was happy, but not thrilled.“She was always caring about her patients and felt surrounded by the dead ones,” he says. “She was carrying all that weight and was always depressed. She had been doing the job for 20 years. I asked her: ‘Why don’t you switch jobs?’ And she said: ‘No. This is my life.’ Her family insisted that she should, but she wouldn’t consider it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chronic - video reviewWhen Franco’s grandmother died, her nurse appeared at the funeral. The director was impressed and intrigued. In Chronic, Roth’s character, David, is similarly dedicated to his clients, even after their working relationship is over. He has experienced losing a loved one to a painful illness and for him the lines between the personal and professional are starting to blur. John, an architect who has suffered a stroke, finds his family an irritation. He bonds with David and tries to coax him into watching porn on his iPad. David resists, but then, a few scenes later, the pair are shown idly ogling as if it has become routine. When the family find out, they’re appalled. They threaten David with a sexual-harassment lawsuit. He seems nonplussed. How could they understand?Chronic review – a cool, calm look at death and the naked human body “It’s a beautiful job they do,” says Franco. “But nurses are either shown as loving angels or terrible people, and I wanted to show something in between.”Roth prepared for Chronic by working for several months with a series of patients and their nurses. He learned how to talk to someone in great pain, how to wash someone who can’t move. In the film, he has a slow, methodical bedside manner. It’s the same calm, almost detached air that seems to infuriate John’s family in the film. John has let David in on a secret they can never be part of.One of the patients Roth worked with died during their time together. He was also called John and Roth had bought him an iPad as a present. John died before Roth could give it to him.“He was very happy to deliver it and when he took it, they told him: ‘No, he died,’” says Franco. “He was very sad, but he said to me: ‘That’s the movie we’re making.’”Franco has never been keen on sanitising reality. In After Lucia, which won the top prize in Un Certain Regard at the 2012 Cannes film festival, he depicted the humiliation, violent harassment and then rape of a 17-year-old girl by her classmates. The director thinks death can be dealt with in ways that are funny (Woody Allen) and clever (The Seventh Seal), but you have to treat the process with respect. He has no time for the recent spate of films dealing with terminally ill teenagers, who die so that their squeeze can learn to live. These films find the end of life romantic, when in reality it’s normally anything but.“They always portray death in a sweet way, with people going away in peace,” says Franco. “They’re with a close relative, holding hands. At the climax, you’re supposed to feel at ease with death. It’s bullshit. Total bullshit.”“Suicide is romanticised as well,” he says. “The note and saying goodbye and the ritual. Sometimes suicides are like that, but in most cases they are accidents by depressed people. And they’re often not acknowledged as suicides. ‘No, no. He fell from that third floor because he was drunk.’ Come on. He looked for that situation.”Inevitably, Chronic throws up the issue of how much pain is too much. David takes on a patient with terminal cancer who is just beginning to lose her self-sufficiency. She is determined not to die helpless and wants him to help her end her own life while she’s able to make the choice. At the Cannes press conference for Chronic, Roth was unequivocal in his assertion that assisted suicide should be made legal in the UK. That it isn’t “crazy”, said the actor. Franco is in agreement.“While people are discussing whether it should be legal or not, it’s happening every day,” he says. “The movie just shows how painful it is and how hard it is to make that decision.”Chronic asks us to reassess how we approach the end of life: how we can prepare for it and leave it with less pain. We can’t answer those questions without thinking – and talking honestly – about death, says Franco.“People try to ignore the fact that we’re going to die. You can make a comedy of that, but if you’re going to show a serious, direct take on death and illness, then you have to face the fact that it is what it is. It’s never easy, but it’s interesting. How can we understand our lives without thinking about the possibility of dying?”He has been asked many times why a healthy 36-year-old would want to focus on the topic. He says asking these questions at a relatively young age is good for objectivity. It helps to deal with the subject honestly.“Because it’s something that will happen in many, many years it’s easier to analyse it,” he says. “If I’m still making films at 70, I might be less keen to talk about it.”So he hasn’t reached a point of acceptance? He is still frightened of death?“Yeah. Absolutely.”• Chronic is on release in the UK now.