The security guard said: “Get back up on the sidewalk, folks, no place to go,” as I was trying to leave San Diego Comic-Con after the panel for USA network’s edgy hacker drama, Mr Robot – just two shows into its second season. With hundreds of people vying for a spot in the line to leave and barely any room to exist, I certainly felt like I had nowhere to go both physically and psychologically. I’d been hemmed in and quartered against my will, causing me all sorts of existential damage. I was surrounded by human beings, but overwhelmed by the loneliness of finding oneself consumed by strangers. Really, it was the ideal situation to find myself in after an hour living in the world of Mr Robot – a TV series defined by isolation.Mr Robot recap: season two, episode three – Elliot is 'woke' “In this day and age, people are looking for something honest. We’re all so imperfect, and people can relate to that,” Carly Chaikin, who plays Darlene, said about the appeal of a series that is so preoccupied with darkness and isolation. Mr Robot tells the story of Elliot, Darlene’s brother and the mentally unstable leader of a hacktivist collective called fsociety. Elliot, played by Rami Malek, sees a version of his father – portrayed by Christian Slater – who goads him into antisocial behavior, including a forgiveness of all financial debt and an overthrow of the sitting government. It’s perfect material for a world overwhelmed by ennui and persistent terror.“We just hit every aspect of how the top 1% of the top 1% rule the world we live in. What’s fascinating about this show is these alienated, disenfranchised characters that everyone can relate to are trying to change the world they live in,” Malek said during the panel late in the day at Comic-Con. The event is ostensibly designed to bring people together in the shared love of genre fiction, but it’s hard to shake the fact that we are all trapped on a tiny sidewalk, trudging toward oblivion while security tells us there’s no place to go.Mr Robot's Rami Malek: 'The world is in chaos – and all we do is hyperconsume' Mr Robot creator Sam Esmail was not in attendance, but his influence was present in the actors he hired to bring life to his vision of a techno-dystopia ruled by disillusionment. The end of season one featured Elliot, Darlene and fsociety executing a hack designed to wipe out all global debt, but the result ends up being a general confusion and very little actual change. Part of the thematic appeal of the series is the acknowledgement that social change is more complex than it seems at first. “That scene [in season one] where Darlene lets the dogs out of the pound – who is going to take care of those dogs?” Malek says.Elliot’s decisions are often dictated by an imaginary, idyllic version of his dead father, played by Christian Slater and named Mr Robot – the persona most obsessed with the idealism of bringing down the social order. It’s unique for a major corporation to produce a series so concerned with ideas of anarchy. (Comcast Universal distributes Mr Robot on the USA Network.) “Someone asked Sam [about the anarchic aspects of the show] in the very beginning, and his response was, as long as they can make money,” Chaikin said.That tends to go a long way in show business. It doesn’t matter what you are saying as long as it’s profitable. Financial gain and visceral satisfaction tend to overwhelm logic. Someone in the crowd asked the panel who plays the mobile game Pokémon Go and Slater enthusiastically raised his hand, despite being the oldest member of the cast on stage. “Do you guys know what access you’re handing over when you sign up for that thing?” Chaikin said. The assembled masses didn’t care. They enjoyed the game, despite what they were giving up.Such is the real-world terror of Mr Robot. It’s a technological near-future in which humanity lives at the whim of the minority who understand the gadgets that rule our world. That the series’ fans and even their cast is willing to go along with it all is frightening. It’s like being on that sidewalk again – the authorities telling you to stay in line, to keep moving forward, and never to leave the herd.