A great masterpiece of European art has just gone on view at the National Gallery in London. Georges de la Tour’s painting The Cheat with the Ace of Clubs (1630-34) has been loaned by the Kimbell Art Museum in Texas and can be seen, for free, in the French galleries.Under normal circumstances I would be happy just to revel in this painting’s luminous beauty and cynical humour. De la Tour is a great master of light who loved to paint the Magdalene in darkness, her bare skin silvered by a pale candle flame. In The Cheat with the Ace of Clubs it’s the big, pale, brightly lit face of a woman in an elaborate headdress that catches our eye. She is a courtesan – hence the fancy dress – who is working with a servant and the boy showing us his hidden cards to cheat a foolish young man. I might have gone on to point out how a similar masterpiece by De la Tour, The Cheat with the Ace of Diamonds, hangs in the Louvre and how both paintings brilliantly reinterpret Caravaggio’s earlier work The Cardsharps. But that was in another world, or at least another Britain. In the Britain where we live now, I want to howl: how can we satisfy ourselves with a shut-in island identity when to be part of Europe is to claim the heritage of Georges de la Tour, Caravaggio, Rembrandt, Cezanne, Picasso … And it’s not just art. What a narrowing of the British mind is now looming, if the glories of European culture, from Dante to the Large Hadron Collider, are to be defined from now on as None of Our Business: as foreign muck. Brexit? Britain has already voted to stay. Just look in its galleries Yet what I should really be asking is why such concerns played no part in what passed for the EU “debate”. Soft stuff about the glory of Europe’s cultural heritage was nowhere on a Remain agenda that dwelt cynically on economic issues. One reason Leave won is that it gave people emotions and symbolism; the tear ducts of patriotism are easy to open. Where were the emotional reasons to vote In? We’re feeling them now. Indeed the loss is entirely emotional. The reason it was so hard to fight for the EU is that loyalty to it has nothing to do with its far from perfect administrative structures. It has to do with feeling European and sharing an identity with our fellow Europeans. That’s what has now been stolen from those of us who will never sign up to a narrow nationalism that sees beauty only in Blighty. This is why Georges de la Tour and all the other great European artists should have mattered in this referendum. It should have been possible to express a pride in Europe, an ownership of Europe as a history, a tradition, an identity – because without that passion for European achievements, heroes and glories how can the EU cause ever hope to fight against the demonic sexiness of national pride? One reason European culture was effaced from the referendum as an issue was that Boris Johnson was good at neutralising it. While Nigel Farage gives every impression of hating Europe, Johnson is a classicist who declared his love of European culture up front. That helped, along with the misguided materialism of the Remain campaign, to neutralise the glory of Europe’s art and architecture as an issue. On the face of it, Johnson’s claim that you can love Europe (De la Tour’s Europe) and hate the EU may have seemed reasonable. After all, the EU does not seem to have much to do with the Trevi Fountain or the Mona Lisa. Its image is bureaucratic and remote, rather than arty or flamboyant. The architectural style favoured by EU institutions is sleekly modern, suggesting progress and reason – but is that a mistake? Would it be easier to identify with the EU, to see it as the soul of Europe, if its headquarters was Versailles? The fountains and palaces, paintings and statues beckon us to be traitors to Brexit Britain. Suddenly all that great art seems subversive. If you feel like a stranger in a shitty utopia, why not flee to an art gallery and feast on Europe’s forbidden cultural fruit?