When Ali Wong’s comedy special, Baby Cobra, was released on Netflix last month, this once little known standup and writer was instantly praised as “a comic genius” and “groundbreaker”. This is one of the rare instances where the puffery is deserved. Wong, known before almost solely for her work on ABC’s Fresh Off The Boat, doesn’t just deliver one of the filthiest and funniest comedy specials I’ve ever seen, she does it while seven months pregnant. You haven’t seen comedy until you’ve seen a heavily pregnant woman miming how she likes to stick her thumb up her husband’s butt while having sex because his fear about being gay turns her on.Aside from the sex – and there is A LOT of sex in Baby Cobra – Wong looks at not obviously comedic subjects including her previous miscarriage and fertility struggles and makes them genuinely hilarious, while also picking apart both sexism and feminism. Wong is about to embark on a sold-out set in DC and, yes, she’s bringing along her eight-month-old daughter, although not in utero this time. We spoke by phone from her home in LA.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ali Wong: pregnant and funny. Photograph: Alex Crick/Netflix/NetflixHi Ali! So let’s start with the obvious question. Who’s the baby cobra – is it you, the baby or something entirely different?It’s my favourite yoga pose, it just feels good. But it’s really kinda my daughter. A lot of people said to me that as soon as I had a baby it would kill my career – but killing in comedy means you’re making people laugh. So I saw it as her helping me onstage. I’ll probably watch it with her when she’s 10 and I’ll be like, “There we are!”Do you think being pregnant helped you be even more out there when you were making your special? When I was pregnant I totally felt like, “Yeah, I’m big and everything’s leaking – deal with it, world.”I always felt like that, to be honest! Although being nauseous the whole first trimester made me feel out of control in a new way. I remember my husband and I had to fly somewhere back then and he was watching Selma and talking to me about how he wanted to get more involved in social issues, and I just threw up all over him. I could see everyone looking at me and I was like, “Yeah, I did that, what do you want?”Some women say being pregnant made them feel powerful and some say they felt vulnerable. I’m guessing you mainly felt powerful.I felt powerful in this way of “I don’t give a fuck about what people think,” and I felt this life running through me when she was kicking me. But I did also feel really vulnerable. You become like a vampire when you’re pregnant: your senses are so sensitive and your emotions are so heightened – that helps with performance because you really feel things. Any stories about something happening to little girls killed me. Put it this way: I did not find Inside Out uplifting. I had no idea about things like the severe constipations, the bleeding gums or that my lasered moustache would come back You’re the first comedian to make a special while pregnant. Was it important to you to break that barrier?Being the first to do it was less important to me than just getting it done before I had the baby. When I planned it in my first trimester I had no idea how I’d look or feel in my third. I had no idea about things like the severe constipations, the bleeding gums or that my lasered moustache would come back. So those were all fun surprises.Were you worried that maybe you wouldn’t be able to come back to comedy after having your baby? There aren’t too many female comedians who also have kids.Absolutely. Aside from Joan Rivers and Roseanne, it’s hard for me to think of any female comedian who’s had kids and has a serious level of fame – like the level where your mother has heard of them. So many women told me they didn’t want to come back after having kids, and I was shocked because often these women seemed so together and not that excited to be a mother, whereas I’m really emotional. So I was worried that I wouldn’t be motivated to do a shitty bar show working out new material when I could be home with this awesome baby who took a lot of work to make. But because I’ve had so much positive feedback from the special, it’s hard not to work. I sold out six shows in DC and that’s never happened before. If I were a male comic I’d be capitalizing on this and going out every weekend, but I can’t do that because I’m the mama. This is not daddy-shaming about male comics, but if I were on the road people would be like, “You’re a bad mom,” and I’d feel like it.Does that double standard irk you?Sometimes it upsets me, but look at what happens – the advantage is that I come from a more unique point of view. That’s the perspective I’ve always had. I think it was crazy for people to see not just a woman on stage but a pregnant five foot tall Asian American woman. But with the exception of the pregnancy, I’ve been all of those things for my life and people used to tell me they’d work to my disadvantage. But it was my choice to make them empower me, and I saw pregnancy and motherhood the same way.And in fact audiences and critics have all said how awesome it is to see a pregnant Asian American woman really going for it on stage.The response has been so surprising and shocking. I had no idea it would connect with so many women. I think men, too, are excited to hear that side. No one knew who I was before, I hadn’t even hired a publicist, so I didn’t know what would happen. But reading some of the feedback I’m really proud that it’s happened.The moment in your special that really made me gasp out loud is when you joke about how you suffered a miscarriage before, and how you were secretly relieved because they were twins. Do you think that joke only works because the audience could see that you got pregnant again so there is redemption to the loss?I think that’s part of it, for sure. But it really helped me when I had a miscarriage to talk to other women and hear that they’d been through it, too. It’s one thing to hear the statistics but it’s another to put faces to the numbers so you stop feeling like it’s your fault. I think that’s one of the reasons women don’t tell people when they’ve had a miscarriage – they think it’s their fault. I remember I worried what my in-laws would think, which is so crazy. I thought they’d think their son had married a terrible person. Also, because I made the mistake of telling people as soon as I got pregnant, I then had to tell them the bad news and then I felt like I was burdening them. So being able to joke about it was such a relief. Comedy only works when it comes from an honest place and the relief that I’d miscarried twins was real!In the show you joke about the stereotypes attached to women and Asian Americans, while also pointing to the truths in the cliches. It’s a tough line to walk between endorsing a stereotype and picking it apart. Have you had any complaints from people about this?I haven’t felt it too much. Overall [when I joke about how I don’t want to Lean Forward, I want to lie down] women are like, “Yeah! I’m exhausted!” I’m not on social media much because I don’t want to be an asshole around my daughter, checking how many people like me. But I’ve had a great response from black women especially, because they’re completely exhausted! I think women get the idea of the fantasy about not having kids and being married some to rich dude. Those women fascinate me. What do they do all day? I am so jealous of those women.How soon after you gave birth in November did you get back to work?The DC shows will be my first on the road, and my daughter and husband will come with me. But I started doing sets about a month and a half afterwards, as soon as I could drive after the C-section. I just thought, even if it didn’t work, I want to test out material. My brain still felt totally melted then, but that was probably a good thing because what comes out is instinct and emotion. I don’t write during the day, I just talk on stage and later I play back stuff that got a response. It would probably be easier if I wasn’t breastfeeding as I am sort of tied to the baby, but I wanted to do that and I’ll do it for a year. You just make it work.So presumably it’s all new stuff as you won’t be using material from your special?Yup, all new stuff, with lots about motherhood. I’ve done 20 minutes on breastfeeding. There’s so much to talk about there! My manager was worried that I’d lose some of the hardcore attitude but I was like, dude, there is nothing more hardcore than having a baby sliced out of you.