BBC Young Musician 20167.30pm, BBC4Another crop of insanely talented wunderkinder compete for the prestigious award, now in its 38th year, at Cardiff’s Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama. Tonight, five young keyboard whizzes – Jackie Campbell, Tomoka Kan, Harvey Lin, Julian Trevelyan and Yuanfan Yang – hope to reach the semi-final, and follow in the footsteps of past winners such as concert pianist Martin James Bartlett. Still not yet 20 and already critically acclaimed for his maturity, Bartlett turns up for a natter. Ali CatterallBilly Connolly’s Tracks Across America9pm, ITVConnolly’s people-spotting trip continues from Washington to California and across to Texas. On the surface it’s a cosy travelogue, picking a point of interest in each town, summarising what’s significant and tootling on, accompanied by shots of trains powering across magnificent vistas. But Billy has steely wisdom to go with his warm wit. His prioritising of ordinary folk above money and power informs his visits to a cannabis farm, a nuclear launch facility and the Mexican border. Jack SealeCleopatra: Mother, Mistress, Murderer, Queen9pm, Channel 5Why does the name of Cleopatra so endure? And what should we make of her turbulent life? C5’s underrated run of history commissions continues with a feature-length drama-doc that explores how the Ptolemaic queen survived murderous dynastic politics, traces her relationships with Julius Caesar and Mark Antony, and looks afresh at her supposedly asp-assisted death. Expert contributors include Bettany Hughes and Dr Chris Naunton, director of the Egypt Exploration Society. Jonathan WrightLookalikes10pm, Channel 4New series of the weird structured reality series documenting goings-on at a lookalike agency. David Beckham is the boss – that’s not the real Becks, but impersonator Andy Harmer. On his books are lookalikes for celebrities from Helen Mirren to Harry Potter, and what an entertaining bunch they are. Harmer is planning a big relaunch, so he goes in search of new talent, but it’s not easy to find. In the light of these slim pickings, will the addition of one or two controversial new faces save the day? Hannah VerdierThe Great Math Mystery7.50pm, PBS AmericaWhether you think they’re a human construct or the foundation of our very existence, something about numbers has never quite added up. This episode of Horizon-inspired US science strand Nova delves into their meaning with the help of a slew of international experts. Among the topics explored in this interesting – if overly long – doc are recurrences of the Fibonacci sequence and pi in nature, and the innate mathematical ability of animals. Sadly, the mystery of whether it’s called maths or math remains as puzzling as ever. Hannah J DaviesRobson Green’s Australian Adventure9pm, QuestThe former karaoke commando goes in search of the wilder side of Australian life in this new four-parter. Beginning in bone-dry Adelaide, he meets the region’s busiest snake-catcher, Roger, a cheerful Hulk Hogan-lookalike with a lock-up full of slithering nightmares. Green gamely bags up a red-bellied rattler and maintains a similar hands-on approach for the rest of his travelogue, descending into boreholes in search of opals and earning his spurs as a cowboy. Graham VirtueBoomers9.30pm, BBC1It’s the day of the naming ceremony for Alan and Joyce’s granddaughter and each Boomer has a plan. Joyce is determined to spend time with the baby despite protective daughter-in-law Suze, while Alan is preoccupied with keeping his wallet shut. Carol wants a publisher for her erotic novel, although Trevor frets about the revelations within. John and Maureen, meanwhile, are aiming to wangle a boat club membership, despite possessing as little nautical knowledge as your average Boaty McBoatface voter. Mark Gibbings-Jones      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Stuhlbarg (with Adam Arkin behind) in A Serious Man. Photograph: Allstar/Focus Features/Sportsphoto LtdFilm choiceA Serious Man (Ethan Coen, Joel Coen, 2009) 11.05pm, BBC2In this warm, wonderful tale, Michael Stuhlbarg’s Larry Gopnik is a science teacher in a pleasant Minnesota town in 1967. He’s an insecure loser who wants to be “a serious man”, but the odds are stacked against him: his job hangs in the balance; his wife wants a divorce; his daughter wants a nose job; and his bar mitzvah-boy son is smoking pot. This is the Coen brothers exploring their Jewish heritage – an investigation rich in humour, pathos and humanity.Serpico (Sidney Lumet, 1973) 1.05am, Channel 4The true story of a New York undercover cop committed to rooting out corruption in his department. Lumet is in his element with subject and setting, pushing along a fierce and gritty thriller on murky backstreets. Al Pacino, following up his Michael Corleone in The Godfather, makes Serpico an unlikely hero, a shambling, mumbling figure in hippy gear. A fascinating study in inner rage and conviction.Today’s best live sportCycling: Basque Tour Coverage of stage five, featuring a journey from Orio to Arrate. 2.30pm, Eurosport 1Golf: The Masters The second day of the major from the Augusta National in Atlanta, Georgia. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Scottish football: Hearts v Aberdeen Coverage of the Premiership match from Tynecastle. 7.15pm, BT Sport 1Rugby League: Warrington Wolves v St Helens Coverage from the Halliwell Jones Stadium. 7.45pm, Sky Sports 2