Your memoir The Actual One is about your 20s. Are you very different now to the way you were at that time of your life?I used to live my life in extremes: I wouldn’t just get drunk, I’d get absolutely wasted; I couldn’t just go for a walk around the block, I’d walk into the West End which would take an hour and a half. Over time, that’s smoothed itself off as I’ve become more happy.Isy Suttie webchat – post your questions now It’s such a cliche: “Oh, I’ve got my slippers on now.” But I think there’s no point in going out if I just want to read Heartburn by Nora Ephron. Elis [the standup Elis James, Isy’s long-term partner] and I have started doing this thing where we’re in bed by 11.15pm then we read till midnight. In a way that’s become my partying.The other day Elis said “I’m really sad”, and the reason was that he had a gig in Portsmouth the next night and would be travelling back afterwards. He said: “I’m gonna miss book club!”There’s a lot of reminiscing in the book – are you a sentimental personNot really, but for some reason Matlock [in Derbyshire, where Isy grew up] seems an exception. When I go back I can’t get my fill of it. It’s like an elusive, mysterious place that I feel so in love with still. I don’t think I quite appreciated it at the time.Do you still have family there?Not any more. I think that’s another reason why I talk about it so much in the book. Around that time I was thinking I would end up moving back there. I was at a real crossroads.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I used to live my life in extremes’ … Isy Suttie. Photograph: Andy Hall for the ObserverYou say that you thought you’d end up marrying a farmer and moving back to Matlock.Yeah it was like a safety net. If it all went wrong in London, I could go back and have a calm life and no one would ask too much of me. I could live on a farm and wear no makeup, learn how to make stews. I’m very unconfident about cooking, I cut sausages in half to check they’re done.In my heart I probably knew it was unlikely to happen, but it was a way of stopping investing in the present moment.You reveal that Joe was your favourite in New Kids on the Block – why was that?Yeah, the snogging the poster thing … I think he had big blue eyes, really big eyes. I was young and he looked like the youngest out of them – he was shorter than Danny for example – so that helped. He was the fittest and anyone who says he wasn’t is a liar.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mark meets Dobby on Peep Show. Warning: strong languageYou tell a story about throwing a pound coin at Howard Donald’s head during a Take That concert. Is that true? Who’s your favourite TT member nowadays?It is true! I saw them almost by accident, very, very early in their career. I think my favourite has to be Howard because I still feel bad about throwing a pound coin at his head.In the book you set out to find Mr Right, “the actual one”. The list of attributes that he had to have was very specific – how does Elis score? Does he know the difference between “your” and “you’re”, which was top of the list?Yeah he does. In fact, he thinks he’s better than me at grammar, but he’s not.Does he use moisturiser?He does, he’s got a big bottle of Nivea with a screw top that he likes. I’ve relaxed the rule about moisturiser a bit.Does he use yours? That was another stipulation.He wouldn’t use mine, no. If we go away anywhere he takes his own in a bag.Anything he falls down on from the list?He can’t do dry stone walling, which is actually a very specialised skill, like glass-blowing, so it was always going to be difficult to find someone who could do that. I think that one came from when I thought I was going to marry a farmer and move back to Matlock.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Isy Suttie on crafting a jokeWhat was it like being on the Peep Show set for the last time?It was weird at first as I’d not been there for three years, so I had to remember the thing about acting straight down the camera – I was quite rusty in terms of the tone. On the last day, I started crying. Then there were tech problems and we ran out of time so we had to come back for another day, and by then I was at peace with it. It was a really nice atmosphere, it felt kind of celebratory too.Do you think Mark and Dobby should have got together in the end?I think not, from her point of view. I think she was happy, she got together with Gregory and had moved on from Mark. From Sam and Jesse’s point of view, they did everything they could do with that character. I felt honoured to be in the last series really.The Actual One by Isy Suttie is published on 28 January by Weidenfeld & Nicolson. Isy Suttie is on tour from 26 January to 15 March. 