It has too often been portrayed as a problem to be overcome or used as shorthand for otherworldly genius. Now a new BBC drama hopes to present the everyday reality of life with an autistic child.The A Word, a reworking of the hit Israeli drama Yellow Peppers, starts on BBC1 this month and writer Peter Bowker hopes that it will help viewers understand both the pleasures and problems of raising an autistic child.“It’s important to stress that this is the story of one child with autism and not the experience of every family and every child,” he says. “I loved the original show but I also knew that I didn’t want to do an exact replica of it, not least because it wouldn’t work. Instead my interest lay in exploring a story about autism in which the child was neither a hidden genius nor a child whose autism was so severe or who was so distressed by their autism that it would become voyeuristic.”He is not alone in putting autism in the spotlight. Next month will see the publication of Jem Lester’s debut novel Shtum, which draws on the author’s own experiences as the father of a profoundly autistic non-verbal son, while Keith Stuart’s A Boy Made of Blocks deals with a father’s struggle to connect with his autistic son. Like The A Word, both books are as concerned with how we communicate with each other as with autism itself.“It was incredibly important that it was funny,” Bowker admits of The A Word. “I didn’t want to beat people over the head with the story. I want viewers to relate to the family and what they’re going through. There’s an aspirational element – they’re building their own business – and on the surface life is not perfect but pretty damn good. Humour is part of that and also the idea that they are a smart, articulate group, but they can’t talk about this one thing.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  How a chef transformed mealtimes at a school for autistic childrenSet in a close-knit Lake District community, The A Word, which stars Christopher Eccleston, Morven Christie, Lee Ingleby and Greg McHugh, is the story of Joe, a sweet-natured five-year-old with a penchant for listening to his father’s favourite punk bands on repeat and an inability to quite connect with his world. His parents know that there’s something not quite right about the way he shuts everyone out and insists on wearing headphones at all times, but they are also terrified of saying the word autism out loud, for fear of branding their son.“The key to The A Word is that it explores the experience of having a child who might initially just be seen as a little eccentric,” says Bowker, who taught children with learning difficulties and autism for 14 years before becoming a writer. “He sings, he dances, he can make eye contact, but there are key moments and key behaviours that mark this child out. I wanted to look at how hard that is for the family to explain to people and to process themselves.”Lester, the author of Shtum, believes that it is important that people continue to challenge public conceptions of autistic children. “I didn’t actually set out to write a novel about autism because my whole experience was still very raw at that point and we’d had to really battle to get Noah into residential care. But I also knew how hilarious and joyful he is and how great he is to hang out with and I wanted something that reflected that. I didn’t want to write a misery memoir.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Graham Butler as Christopher in The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time Photograph: Alastair Muir/Rex ShutterstockInstead his novel draws on his family’s own experiences to tell an often very funny tale of fathers and sons and the mistakes we all make. “I never set out to be a voice for autism,” he says, “but now I’m really gratified by the positive responses the book has had. I hope it helps people to understand that autistic children are all individuals with different ways of perceiving the world. There is no generic autistic way to be.”Bowker and Lester agree it’s time to move on from the perception of autistic kids as all having a gift that can be unlocked. “I used to find it incredibly frustrating when people asked me what Noah’s extraordinary skill was,” says Lester. “We should be over Rain Man by now. I sometimes say his extraordinary skill is making people laugh.”Bowker agrees. “Rain Man was a force for good at the time, but if that was the only portrayal of autism and Asperger’s syndrome it would be a false perspective,” he says. “There are dramas that have used Asperger’s in an interesting way. The Bridge has never formally said that Saga has it, but she is aware of her problems and they often find great humour in that. I adored The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time because it doesn’t shy away from the pain autism can cause, but it’s also celebratory and positive at the same time. What I dislike is when people say, ‘Oh well, we’re all on the spectrum’, or use ‘he’s a bit autistic’ as an excuse for rude behaviour. People use it so wildly that it becomes meaningless.”By contrast Bowker hopes that The A Word will do the opposite, bringing the realities of autism into sharper focus. “I want to honour people with autism and people who care for them and people who work around autism, because we live in a society which is a little bit too strong on scapegoating,” he says. “At the very least I hope this series helps people understand autism a little more and understand the day-to-day heroism of families raising an autistic child. If that makes me a soppy old liberal, so what? I embrace it.”The A Word starts on BBC1 on 22 March at 9PM. Shtum by Jem Lester (Orion Publishing £12.99) is out in April. To order a copy for £10.39 inc UK p&p see bookshop.theguardian.com