When Tziporah Malkah was Kate Fischer, she was engaged to billionaire casino magnate Jamie Packer. These days she works night shifts at a pharmacy. She’s completely physically unrecognisable and she’s a total loose cannon, and until recently she was stuck, by choice, in a jungle in Africa. She walked around camp in pigtails and boots – still quite cute – vacillating between aggression, self-deprecation and abject silent depression.Day after day she would walk up to her campmates and confess strange details about her past. “I’ve been through a lot!” she would say. She parroted on and on – and, since being evicted from the camp on Sunday night’s episode of I’m A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here she has continued to do so.The third season of Australia’s take on the reality show commenced with frankly woeful ratings, but as the season has pushed on, Channel Ten’s big-budget family entertainment program has blossomed into a ratings juggernaut. I love it and so does the public – but why?Ripping into Kim Kardashian and Kate Fischer – plain old bullying or 'public interest'? | Amanda Meade Perhaps it has something to do with the format. The UK version just wrapped its 13th season to enormous ratings; by now, the producers have mastered the tension and release contained within each episode. Having worked in reality television, I see the art in the execution – but even for the average viewer, it’s an opportunity to see celebrities absolutely lose it like they’re at some kind intensive detoxification therapeutic retreat. And as we near their end of their five-week program, we’re learning this is about far more than schadenfreude.All celebrities are interesting, even when they aren’t. They are often a bit messed up. On the show, they’re usually quite vulnerable and lovable. They’ve had their dizzying highs and, if they’ve chosen to enter the jungle for some televised humiliation, they’ve also probably experienced some lows.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tziporah Malkah endures a trial in season three of the Australian I’m A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here. Photograph: Nigel Wright/Network TenTziporah Malkah was a casting surprise – she’s been out of the limelight for 10 years. But her unbridled rawness was undoubtedly her biggest and most endearing asset, and meant more to casting producers than her famous past. She confessed that she hasn’t had sex for six years: “The first two years were hard.” And when a snake tried to crawl up her shorts in the Viper Room Challenge – her face covered in leaves and dirt, her hair wet – she confessed she “should have been grateful” for the action.These moments for me are not what makes I’m A Celebrity sick or sad. They’re what makes I’m A Celebrity special. Celebrities suffer for their art, and their life is a performance – they are selling out their personality. It’s no easy feat, and it’s nothing to be sniffed at; entertainment is a drain on the individual who gives it. And if they find themselves in front of a camera in the jungle, it’s the strange twists and turns in their strange careers that brought them there. They’re stripped bare. The makeup is off. Their mobile phones are gone. They know they’re going to cry, be degraded, humiliated, hungry, and sliced open at the mercy of the jungle and the public.And of course, at the conclusion of this narrative arc is rebirth and redemption. Australians have a hard time liking their celebrities. We have a hard time even acknowledging that they are celebrities. Every year Twitter is alight with the same gleeful mantra of, “Who are these people?!” Well, this year they’ve done quite well. Admittedly, I didn’t really know who the beauty queen Tegan Martin was, but I’m not going to deny she’s a celebrity. Meanwhile Steve Price, Casey Donovan, Nat Bassingthwaighte, My Kitchen Rules’ Mean Girl Ash Pollard, former Bachelorette Keira Maguire, former Olympian Lisa Curry, Carson “Queer Eye” Kressley? All these people are proper famous, at least to mainstream Australia. And if you don’t think they’re famous enough, well, this show has something for you too: degradation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You can’t have character growth without suffering’: Keira Maguire is covered in bees. Photograph: Network TenThe challenges tend to attract criticism for their torture to both the celebrities and the animals and insects used upon them. But the trials are so important to the show’s arcs: you can’t have character growth without suffering. Tune into pretty much any episode of I’m a Celeb and you’ll most likely witness a celebrity experiencing what looks like a real panic attack. Keira cries and shakes uncontrollably as cockroaches crawl on her tear-drenched face and her collagen lips. MKR Mean Girl Ash hates snakes, so every day they drape snakes around her pale limbs while she yelps and steels herself to the punishment. The celebrities are put into coffins and lowered underground; they fill the coffins with water and rats and spiders. The girls scream and wail; the boys breathe heavily. They hold hands and encourage each other like they’re in a hostage situation. It looks like a detail from Hieronymus Bosch’s The Garden of Earthly Delights, The Hell Panel. Or the torturous Room 101 in George Orwell’s 1984.Then they’re back at camp, eating rice and beans, rocking back and forth, hugging each other and saying how proud they are that they endured it, together. It’s madness and a little bit Stockholm syndrome-y. The suffering and endless humiliation and degradation has a darkness to it that appeals to the Australian tall poppy syndrome. Look at these celebs! They’re not even celebs! Make them eat worms! Now they’re crying. I feel bad, but now they’re hugging each other. I feel good! As contrived as it all may be, as the situations play out the show becomes more and more beautiful. Why? I see friendships forming. Weird friendships, where people are shoved together and told not only to survive, but to try to stay chipper.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keira Maguire, Carson Kressley and Tegan Martin endure the Bush Tucker Trial. Photograph: Network TenAs the series charges on, and the celebrities normalise into jungle life, camp starts to look like the rec room of a dirt-floored Betty Ford Clinic. The celebrities bicker and fight, but make up quite quickly, and hug often. “Haven’t you got to know about my spatial awareness over the past few weeks?” Tziporah asks Kris Smith, as if this is a normal thing to ask, as opposed to apologising for standing in his way while he was trying to play darts.Is I’m A Celebrity's Africa-themed show a bad case of cultural appropriation? MKR Mean Girl gives broadcaster Steve Price hourly pep talks. “Come on Pricey! I thought you didn’t care what other people thought of you?” Who would have thought those two would become best mates?Casey Donovan stands awkwardly in the middle of the camp and regales her campmates with a story of how she has always believed she is talented, but not quite good enough. “I still haven’t come to terms with the fact that I won Australian Idol,” she says. Watching her I realise how intimate she has become with her campmates. I listen to her story and my heart breaks for her. The moment seems unproduced and heartwarming, and her hair is wild! It’s what I imagine a really good AA meeting might be like.Skinny and funny Nazeem Hussain does 20 push-ups while jocks Dane Swan and Kris pummel his backside with a football. When he’s done, they tell him he has nine more reps to go. Nazeem wails and gets back on the dirt floor, heroically. These very different boys are all like brothers and best friends. This is the black magic of the jungle. You’re trapped, you’re routinely frightened out of your wits and pushed beyond your threshold. You’re constantly hungry. It’s traumatic and intense. You make fast friends with the weird people around you.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tarred and feathered: Kris Smith and Tziporah Malkah. Photograph: Nigel Wright/Network TenSure, it’s a romp to watch. But on a deeper level, our enjoyment comes down to the purity of the premise. Here are celebrities – usually produced, slicked up, coiffed and handled. There’s no PR manager in the jungle, no agent. No hair and makeup. It takes a few weeks, but as their bravado and ego starts to fall away, the viewer really does get to the heart of what it means to be a person in the jungle, just trying not to be too weird. It reminds me a little bit of life – suffering through strange situations, making nice with people you don’t always get along with, and occasionally sticking your head into a fishbowl filled with excited tarantulas. OK, maybe not the last bit. I’m A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here continues Sundays to Thursdays, at 7.30pm on Channel Ten