Before last year, Gary Owen hadn’t had a play staged in London for more than a decade. Come December, however, the Welsh playwright had not one but two productions on the best-of-year lists: Violence and Son, his Royal Court debut, and Iphigenia in Splott, a cri de coeur against austerity that now arrives at the National Theatre, ahead of a nationwide tour.Iphigenia in Splott five-star review – a whirlwind of aggression and seduction You don’t find many ancient Greek myths on the streets of Cardiff. The original Iphigenia, Agamemnon’s daughter, was killed for the sake of her nation’s war effort. Her counterpart in Splott, south Cardiff, is a loud-mouthed, loose-legged young woman named Effie who becomes pregnant just as funding cuts put the squeeze on local amenities and public services. She discovers the short-term cost of that long-term economic plan. “People [in Splott] are very, very dependent on public services – libraries, community centres, Sure Start – and all these things are being threatened,” says Owen. “People really need the state, and the state is withdrawing.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gary Owen: all my characters are based on real people. Photograph: Kirsten McTernanOwen used to live in Splott but moved away to raise his two kids. “Flowerpots get smashed. Cars get vandalised,” the softly spoken 44-year-old explains. “You get used to not leaving anything in the back seat of your car.” Neighbours like that might test a person’s patience, but Owen writes in order to figure them out: “Almost all of my characters are based on real people. Often I’ll take behaviours that I can’t quite understand, things I’d never do, and try to make sense of them.”His own experience fed into Iphigenia as well: his partner went into early labour with his second child – just as Effie does – and faced a precarious journey through worsening weather to reach a hospital with the requisite facilities. Owen’s son was born safely, but weeks later, he allowed himself to write the “what if?” account. “It wasn’t a cathartic process or anything like that,” he says, but it did afford the writing a level of detail and authority in its portrait of an NHS at full stretch.After an initial flurry of work in the early 2000s – three plays and a couple of awards – Owen fell off the new-writing radar. At the time, authenticity and realism tended to win out over flights of imagination, but Owen’s plays were strange and dystopian. The Shadow of a Boy featured an alien visitor; The Drowned World was an Orwellian parable about the persecution of beauty.Owen is philosophical about that period, describing “an initial burst of saying everything I had to say about the world”, followed by a hiatus. He didn’t stop writing, he just moved back to Wales; a one-man corrective to theatre’s London-centricity. “Sometimes, he’s prolific. Sometimes, he’s not,” says the Royal Court’s Vicky Featherstone. “He hasn’t followed the grind of the London glitterati career in any way. That was both his choice and his circumstance.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘People are attracted to the personality that’s afraid of nothing’ … David Rees Talbot in Crazy Gary’s Mobile Disco at the Lyric studio in 2001. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianYou could argue that it’s stopped Owen from being pigeonholed. He’s written plays for young people, trad second world war tales and a comedy of manners. In February, his clown piece for kids opens at the Unicorn theatre. The entire script consists only of the three characters’ names: Jeramee, Hartleby and Oooglemore. Raised on a farm outside Haverfordwest in Pembrokeshire, Owen came to theatre late. He read philosophy at Cambridge and planned on an academic career. He started writing “for a joke”, and almost inadvertently finished a novel, before someone suggested he try drama. “I knew Alan Bennett was a theatre writer and I’d seen his monologues on television. That looked relatively easy.”Hence Crazy Gary’s Mobile Disco, a sizzling set of three monologues that Featherstone picked up for Paines Plough. Crazy Gary is a hardnut on a criminal rampage: “In towns across the UK, these people aren’t hated,” Owen explains. “They’re feared, but they’re not ostracised. They’re socially successful – it’s better to be their friend than not, and there’s a genuine attraction to the personality that’s afraid of nothing.”Owen is a fiercely moral writer – a result, perhaps, of that philosophy degree – and a deeply compassionate one, capable of giving characters their dues. His characters speak with their own poetry, just above everyday speech, so that certain phrases ring out. Effie vomits up “sour liquorice juice”. Crazy Gary spots someone “major league fuckable”. He has been accused of overwriting, but Featherstone argues otherwise: “He creates these extraordinary images you can’t shake off.” The Royal Court is considering one of his plays and has another under commission. It might not be long before Owen is hitting top 10 lists againIphigenia in Splott is at the NT’s Temporary theatre, London, until 20 Feb; Jeramee, Hartleby and Oooglemore is at the Unicorn theatre, London, from 6 February to 15 March 