The pop group, The Move, yesterday apologised to the Prime Minister through counsel in the High Court and agreed that all profits on its record Flowers in the Rain – now fourth in the Hit Parade – shall go to charity.They and two other defendants, who will pay agreed damages, will also pay the costs of Mr Wilson’s action against them. Mr Quintin Hogg, QC, for the Prime Minister, told the court that Mr Wilson had brought the action “to make plain his determination to establish the complete falsity” of rumours of which he had been aware for some years.These false and malicious rumours, Mr Hogg said, had been spread concerning the Prime Minister’s personal character and integrity. He said a postcard sent through the open post to disc jockeys, journalists, and television producers to promote a record made by The Move had made use of the rumours, which Mr Wilson had “always considered it right to treat with the contempt they deserve.” He said: “But in the present instance the scurrility of the card coupled with the extent of the circulation and threatened circulation left him with no alternative but to assert his legal rights and thereby to make plain his determination to establish the complete falsity of these rumours. The defendants have now realised the unacceptable nature of their conduct and it is fair to say have never at any time suggested that there was a word of truth in any of the suggestions contained in the libel.”Mr Hogg said Mr Wilson had agreed to terms of settlement which might be thought “extremely generous.” Later, after detailing the terms, he said:“In view, however, of the wide dissemination of the postcard he wishes me to make it quite clear that he would not necessarily take the same lenient view of any subsequent occasion. Indeed, in the opinion of his advisers, the character of the libel was such as to warrant criminal proceedings.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Flowers in the Rain by The Move via YouTube500 copies orderedThe Prime Minister’s action, started when he issued a writ and was granted an injunction on September 1, was against The Move’s manager, Anthony Secunda; the group members, Bev Bevan, Trevor Ireson, Christopher Kefford, Carl Wayne, and Roy Wood; the designer of the drawing on the postcard, Neil Smith; C.C.S. Advertising Associates. Ltd., of Wardour Street, Soho, who sub-contracted an order for 500 copies of the card; and Richard Moore and Leslie Ltd., of Great Chapel Street, Soho, who printed those copies.In addition to the agreed payments, the defendants were required to submit to a perpetual injunction. The royalties on the record and sheet music of Flowers in the Rain and the coupled song Lemon Tree, and the damages to be paid by the last two defendants, will go into trust and the money be shared equally between the two charities named by Mr Wilson: the Spastics Society and the amenity funds of Stoke Mandeville Hospital, to aid paraplegic patients.Mr James Loring, director of the Spastics Society, said: “We are tremendously grateful for the Prime Minister’s generous and thoughtful gesture. The society is at present facing a grave financial crisis.” As reported in the Guardian yesterday, the society stands to lose up to a quarter of a million pounds annually as a result of a court decision on the tax liability of its football pool, a major source of income.How much the two charities will receive from The Move, however, is hard to assess. The record from which most of the money will come has been issued in this country, the US, Australia, Germany and Scandinavia, and the royalties will take some time to come through. People connected with The Move yesterday estimated the likely revenue at anything from £2,000 to £8,000.