Two weeks ago I wrote half a line hinting at my belief – no doubt senile and irrational – that the allegedly forthcoming global climate change disaster might still be up for discussion. Hundreds of objectors immediately surfaced through the web, many of them trolls. If I were out to count the percentage of violently angry people among the internet population, it would be easier than fishing with grenades.Several of these choleric experts correctly accused me of not being a scientist. My only field of expertise is the use and abuse of language; but a trained ear for empty rhetoric is what tells me that most of them aren’t scientists, either. People who call carbon dioxide “carbon” know even less about science than I do. Their anger, I suspect, is driven by belief rather than knowledge.Let’s be fair and say that people can harbour an irrational belief and still be rational in other respects. That’s what I would like my critics to think about me, so I strive to think the same about them; and anyway, it takes that kind of generosity to fit the historic facts. Sir Isaac Newton was rational about celestial mechanics, but quite nutty about numerology. The great poet Yeats believed in the Mystic Rose. For all I know, in order to act like Leonardo DiCaprio, you have to believe you are “fighting climate change” when you fly by private jet.It was while receiving his Oscar that DiCaprio told the world about its duty to fight climate change. He reminded me of the radical heyday when Vanessa Redgrave used to celebrate an extra few votes for her faction in the Workers Revolutionary Party by announcing that they had “smashed capitalism”. She is still the great lyrical actress of her time, but talent can be dopey.Clive James: ‘None of us realised that the bushfires and floods were climate change’ The vaulting eloquence with which Chris Rock hosted the Oscars proved again that satirical comedy is at its strongest when anger is expressed through reason. But there could have been several African-American actors among the nominees if the TV series The People v OJ Simpson had been eligible. Personally, however, I would have given the best actor award to John Travolta, who is monumentally good in that same show, which he helped to produce.Travolta is a small nation, big enough to have its own air force. Let’s not forget, however, that he nurses an irrational belief powerful enough to curdle your brains along with his own. Travolta the Scientologist not only believes the Earth was colonised by refugees from outer space, he made a movie about it, Battlefield Earth, that was so dire the small crowds who saw it would rush the exits as if the ocean were rising and capitalism had been smashed.