Unearthing World War I 7pm, YesterdayBlanch as you might at the idea of battles being described as iconic, this show – part history, part scavenger hunt – gets into some extremely interesting places in its investigation of Vimy Ridge. Things things get completely compelling on-site in Nord-Pas-de-Calais, as David O’Keefe and Wayne Abbott discover human stories in the region’s ordnance-littered “deep fighting system”. Their guide has some extremely solid advice for them: “Stay off the grenades.” John RobinsonThe Hairy Bikers’ Chicken and Egg 8pm, BBC2As the Hairy Bikers’ poultry-themed series continues, they head to the US to discover the secrets of southern fried chicken. They visit the hallowed Mama J’s in Richmond, Virginia, a temple at which the crispiest parts of the bird are worshipped, and Gordonsville, where its heritage is murky – recipes co-opted by slave owners and turned into the first iteration of fast food. Naturally, they also cook up their own buffalo wings. Ben ArnoldThe Dog Rescuers With Alan Davies 8pm, Channel 5More poorly, forlorn and generally disadvantaged hounds feel the healing hands of Alan Davies and friends. Tonight, we meet a pair of flea-riddled staffies, a bulldog cross in search of a new owner, and a jack russell with a chronic illness. The latter case threatens to be atypically cheerless, but this is a show that can be trusted not to force bleak outcomes on unwitting viewers, so dog-lovers can assume redemption is at hand. Phil HarrisonNational Treasure 9pm, Channel 4Part two of Jack Thorne’s drama detailing the downfall of a fictional household name following abuse allegations. The personal life of Paul Finchley (Robbie Coltrane) is murkier than most, with a second wave of allegations dragging his reputation through ever-muddier ground. A PR offensive misfires spectacularly, while daughter Dee (Andrea Riseborough) attempts to uncover her own truth via unconventional means. An unsettling but irrefutably compelling journey into a world where no one wins. Mark Gibbings-JonesBig Night Out 9pm, VicelandFollowing a successful online series of the same name, Vice UK journalist Clive Martin goes in search of the underground nightlife you won’t find on TripAdvisor. This episode takes him to Greece, where we see what happens when boats carrying refugees cross the same waters as Brits on booze cruises. Martin’s ability to gel with tourists, Greek locals and migrants alike makes this a refreshingly in-depth take on youth culture and crisis. Grace RahmanLater Live – With Jools Holland 10pm, BBC2Joolsy is joined by Barry Gibb, who sings tracks from his upcoming second solo album. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the former Bee Gee is keeping it in the family: the new release was co-written with two of his sons. Also appearing are punk duo Slaves; teen singer-songwriter Declan McKenna; piano crooner Norah Jones; and Lisa Hannigan, who has emerged from the shadow of her former collaborator, Damien Rice, in recent years. Hannah J DaviesDamned 10pm, Channel 4Beautifully bleak new series from Jo Brand and Morwenna Banks about the workings of a children’s services department. It hits the ground running in this promising opener with Rose (Brand) stumbling across an old flame on a home visit, Al (Alan Davies), having woman trouble, and Nitin (Himesh Patel) meeting with HR. Isy Suttie, meanwhile, is the temp with a “cheeky sideline” selling hair putty. There’s warmth in the comic one-liners, woven into realistic and grim situations. Hannah VerdierFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Philip Seymour Hoffman in Synecdoche, New York. Photograph: Everett/Rex ShutterstockSynecdoche, New York (Charlie Kaufman, 2008) 12.55am, Film4Screenwriter Kaufman’s directorial debut is dominated by Philip Seymour Hoffman as the shambling, neurotic New York theatre director Caden Cotard. In the grip of a midlife crisis, he buys a huge warehouse, and sets about reconstructing his life. Play and reality gradually merge in this brilliant, if baffling, comic-drama, which also stars Catherine Keener and Samantha Morton in a high-quality cast. Paul HowlettLive sportLive one-day international cricket: Ireland v Australia All the action from the match at Sahara Park in Benoni. 12.30pm, Sky Sports 2Champions League football: Leicester City v Porto; CSKA Moscow v Tottenham Hotspur Coverage of both games is available via the red button (kick-off 7.45pm). 7pm, BT Sport 2 & ExtraLive MLB Major League Baseball coverage. 1am, BT Sport 1