It’s a Wednesday evening at the Art Gallery of New South Wales and William Yang, the slightly built, bespectacled, gay, Chinese-Australian photographer, stands in front of a video screen that shows a selection from 50 years of his photography.His talk is on his male nudes, with images captured from his early years as a Queensland University student, through the halcyon days of Sydney’s gay scene that in the 70s swept him out of the closet, to imitating today’s selfie culture, as found on the gay dating app Grindr.LGBT films may now be mainstream but queer film festivals are still indispensable | Steve Dow Yang became a photographer as an excuse: he secretly lusted after a fellow architecture student and longed to “jump on him”. Taking photos was the next best thing, giving him certain liberties. “Take off your shirt,” he recalls commanding, and we see his images of this handsome, buff chap. “Lie on the bed.” The audience roars with laughter.Afterwards Yang feels elated he has been well received. “It had the right balance of frisson and titillation without freaking people out,” he says.Yang has a “calm and netural” narrative style, according to a perceptive and enlightening new monograph on the photographer, William Yang: Stories of Love and Death, by Edward Scheer and Helena Grehan: “Through his own stillness he makes room for others to move and be moved.”At 72, Yang’s long career has included not only his photography, but touring performance pieces – 10 in total – in which he stands in front of his images projected on to a wall or on a large video screen, often accompanied by live music, and calmly recounts the moments they were taken. Three of these live performance pieces, Blood Links, Friends of Dorothy and My Generation, have been made into documentaries which will be made available on ABC iView from 1 March.A major solo exhibition at Sydney’s Stills Gallery, also called Stories of Love and Death, takes a comprehensive look at his career, works with homoerotic themes and that delve into his community’s devastating losses to Aids.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cate Blanchett (2004) by William Yang.There are self-portraits and images of key Sydney arts figures such as Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush. Yang’s reclamation of his Chinese identity and the difficulty of presenting images and stories about his late mother and other family members are recalled, too.In the late 1980s, Yang developed a pictograph style: writing the story of his encounter with a subject directly on to the photograph. A number of these subjects were lovers and the stories were written retrospectively. Consider the image of Joe, photographed in 1979: “The music was loud so I leaned over to shout my opening line,” Yang later wrote on the image of the sleeping young man. “He pointed to his ear and shook his head and I understood he was deaf.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joe (1979) by William Yang.We are sitting in Yang’s inner-western Sydney apartment, near a train line. When he first started presenting images of gay sex to a broad audience, how did they respond? Yang admits sometimes there is a bit of self-censorship involved when presenting penises. The images of nude, often gay, men, sometimes post-coital, often very sensual, “divided an audience, I think. I think that the times are more conservative now. Showing those photographs now probably causes a bigger reaction.”Why more conservative? “I think the world is probably a harder place to live in now, and people are more cautious about surviving,” he says. “Say, in the west when I grew up, with the counterculture, the alternative culture, hippiedom, it was easy then to drop out. I felt perfectly happy doing that. Now it’s harder. I think people are too worried about their futures.”The formative years of the Sydney Mardi Gras feature prominently in Yang’s work. Today the GLBTQI festival is about “flying a flag for diversity and inclusiveness”, he says. “I think it’s now more a celebration of fun than solidarity, and it’s not even that gay any more. Young people don’t have that same rigorous identification of being gay that we had in the 70s.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Patrick White #3 (1980) by William Yang.In 1984 Yang’s friend the Nobel-winning Australian novelist Patrick White wrote to the Mardi Gras committee calling for the parade to be called off: “I have always detested the Gay Mardi Gras nonsense,” White wrote, “particularly since so many non-gay trendies seem to have jumped on the bandwagon.”Yang photographed the late White, who was also gay, several times. “I think that his crankiness was high camp kind of crankiness, really. I don’t think it was deep-seated [crankiness]; it was like, more of an act. A performance.”In 1985 White asked to be photographed acting out a death scene as his female alter ego Alex Xenophon Demirjian Gray from his book Memoirs of Many in One. White was photographed in bed at St Vincent’s hospital, with archangels, icons and cats that Yang later collaged into the picture.The problem was the spooky image didn’t look like Alex. It looked like White.So Yang took new photographs of White, this time in drag: a scarf concealing his hair, and wearing a cashmere shawl over a lace top. The resulting images were not campy drag, more a subtle playing with gender fluidity, which White intended to use as the book’s frontispiece.But the photos are filed away in the National Library collection and have never been seen at any Yang show. “His agent helped him change his mind,” Yang notes wryly.Will White in drag ever see the light of display? “No, I don’t think,” Yang hesitates, then continues: “Oh, I’ll publish them. I won’t destroy them.”• William Yang – Stories of Love and Death is at Stills Gallery until 5 March