The civil war in Syria scattered its members around the world as they fled their homeland, but now the Syrian National Orchestra for Arabic Music (SNOAM) is to be reunited for a rare concert in London. On 25 June, the orchestra – led by conductor Issam Rafea – will perform at the Southbank Centre, presented by Africa Express, and with appearances by Damon Albarn and others.The 90-strong orchestra first worked with Albarn at Damascus Opera House in 2009, then appeared on the track White Flag on Gorillaz’ Plastic Beach album and on the subsequent world tour. However, the outbreak of civil war in spring 2011 caused Rafea and many other members of the orchestra to flee. The London concert – which is intended to be the first of several events – will be their first performance together since then.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “The fabric of Syrian society has been torn apart as a result of the conflict. At the Syrian National Orchestra of Arabic Music’s performance, there will be people representing both sides of the argument present both on stage and in the audience,” Rafea said. “But all are in agreement that we want it to end. This concert is an wonderful opportunity to show the world another side to the Syrian story – joy and a celebration of our music and culture. We have not played together in a long time, so we are particularly looking forward to a wonderful night at the Southbank Centre this summer.”“This will be a great reunion,” Albarn added. “We’re so used to seeing Syria through the prism of news, this concert will give a completely different perspective.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Issam Rafea: ‘This is a wonderful opportunity to show another side to the Syrian story’The orchestra performs traditional Arabic music as well as experimental work based on traditional forms. “It’s a truly miraculous sound they create,” Albarn told Radio 4’s Today programme on Wednesday. “There’s a whole choir, there’s strings, there’s soloists, there’s amazing percussion. It’s a really dynamic and joyous sound and it’s stayed with me for all these years.”Albarn added that since war broke out he had “watched from a distance and felt utterly helpless, wondering about all the lovely people I got to know”. Rafea has lived in Chicago since 2013, and told Radio 4: “It’s hard to express my feelings. It’s good now to have this opportunity to come all together again.”SNOAM was formed in 1990, turning professional in 2003, since when Rafea has been its principal conductor.