The British have only themselves to blame for romanticising about the summer. It was William Blake who began his celebrated poem: "How sweet I roam'd from field to field/And tasted all the summer's pride." We've been stuck with this image of bucolic bounty ripening in the sun ever since: asparagus in May; strawberries in June; apples in September. This year, though, the weather has been so vile that fruit farmers are saying that not only have some crops failed, but our appetite for soft fruits has withered in the rain: producers are reporting the near-criminal sight of unsold fruit rotting.A few progressive growers are trying "exotic" crops, in the hope of riding out the vagaries of the British weather, perhaps benefiting from predicted climate changes. This should please the government, which this week published a report into sustainable farming, suggesting UK farmers could grow curry ingredients such as chickpeas.From almonds to Szechuan pepperAt Otter Farm near Honiton in Devon, Mark Diacono has produced a Mediterranean idyll. Stride through his "climate change nursery" and take your pick of pecans, almonds, grapes, peaches, apricots and olives. Diacono, who used to work at River Cottage, has ventured into growing Szechuan peppers, which he says are his biggest success commercially: "They are very reliable and fruit really well." His message to other commercial growers is to diversify: "Our weather is just too erratic to rely on one crop. I'm now experimenting with kiwi fruit and considering a Riesling grape. Olives haven't worked that well for me, though. Apricots are tricky, too, but localised conditions are crucial to your success or failure. We're in full wind here. I'm also of the view that perennial plants are the way to go because their mature roots make them more tolerant to drought."VinesThe Lindo family planted its first vines along the steep slopes above the Camel valley in Cornwall in the late 1980s. Two decades on, it has won international awards, notably for sparkling whites. "We have actually been OK this summer so far, but the next 10 days are crucial," says Sam Lindo. "We could lose everything if we don't get eight continuous hours at 22C. This is what's required for the vines to flower fully." But he is philosophical: "Anyone growing grapes in England knows you get good and bad years. What's important is that we're noticing an increasing amount of consecutive good years." The Lindos have successfully planted grapes such as pinot noir, which thrive in warmer climates. "We examined meteorological data for the area. Throughout the 1950s and 60s, there was not one year that would have suited grape growing. In the 2000s, we had four bumper years."ChilliesThe South Devon Chilli Farm near Kingsbridge has been feted by the likes of Jamie Oliver for its variety of chillies. Kaz Lobendhan, one of the farm's directors, says that, using polytunnels, they have been able to mimic the conditions in which the chillies flourish in their native countries, such as Mexico or India. "It doesn't affect the flavour," she says. "We first planted chillies here nine years ago; now we grow more than 100 varieties, from sweet and mild to fiery."Tea and coffeeThe Tregothnan estate in Cornwall is the UK's only tea plantation. Making use of the microclimate on the inland reaches of the River Fal, the estate poured its first pot of homegrown Darjeeling for customers in 2006. It made sense: two centuries ago, Tregothnan successfully grew a camellia introduced from Asia. Camellia sinensis – the tea plant – is now harvested for blends including Earl Grey and breakfast tea, and chamomile, fennel, echinacea, manuka, eucalyptus and myrtle are grown for infusions. Estate director Jonathon Jones says they are now trialling bananas and coffee.Despite the obvious stresses caused by this summer's washout, there might be a good reason for vanguard growers to persist. According to Diacono: "The closer you grow a plant to its natural limits, the more flavour it has. There's something about the stress it endures that enhances the taste."