When a star athlete is described as an “all-rounder” it usually means they excel at a second sport. But in the case of Team GB’s Rio long jumper, Jazmin Sawyers, it means a lot more.Sir Tom Jones to return to The Voice The 22-year-old from Trentham, Staffordshire, is about to show viewers of the new series of The Voice that her vocal cords are at least as exceptional as her sporting skills.The television talent show returns for a sixth series next month, on Saturday 7 January, this time on ITV, and Sawyers will be shown attempting to convince judges she has the potential to top the charts.After winning a silver medal at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow in 2014, Sawyers went on to achieve eighth place in her first Olympics, in Brazil this summer – and four years ago she also won Britain’s first medal for the bobsleigh at the Youth Winter Olympics. “Jazmin is a bubbly person and someone who enjoys doing lots of things,” said Harry Harvey, a former endurance coach at City of Stoke athletics club who has known Sawyers since she joined. “She likes to go off in a different direction at times. I do know she sings but I only really know her from the athletics side.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sawyers at the Olympics & Paralympics Team GB Rio 2016 victory parade at Trafalgar Square Photograph: Dan Istitene/Getty ImagesSawyers’s first attempt at international competition level was in a gruelling heptathlon contest at the World Youth Championships in 2011. Her bobsleigh efforts four years ago won her a silver medal. Her performance this year at Rio, she has said, was more difficult than she had expected due to the nerves caused by the incredibly high stakes and increased personal exposure. Since the Olympics Sawyers has not turned her back on track and field events but has also taken time to focus on her music. “She’s got a talent that she can do well at most things,” said Harvey. “She’s always had success and she has that sort of direction and determination to achieve things which I’m sure will help her with any career endeavour.”It is fair to say The Voice’s previous winners have had trouble making an impact afterwards in the tougher world of the music industry. Series four’s winner, Stevie McCrorie, has returned to working as a fireman, Andrea Begley’s debut single only managed to reach No 75, and Kevin Simm, who won the last series, already enjoyed fame as a member of Liberty X.Sawyers’s competitive instincts may help her push through, if she can conquer her nerves. A source on the programme has commented on “a big buzz about her backstage”.The Voice returns with a judging panel consisting of star names. Jennifer Hudson and Gavin Rossdale will join veteran panellists Will.i.am, and Sir Tom Jones, who has been reunited with the show since its move to ITV. “I had some great times on the show and I can’t wait to again discover and help some brand new talent. And of course be back with my pal Will.i.am,” he said.