London O’Connor has been wearing the same outfit since November. “Gonna wear nothing but this Gold sweater until my music makes more money than my parents. O∆,” the 25-year-old New York City songwriter and producer tweeted in the fall. When we meet up on a sunny afternoon at Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side, he’s indeed dressed in this look: off-white Velcro sneakers, light-washed jeans, and a long-sleeved, mustard yellow shirt stitched with his personal mantra, O∆, pronounced “circle triangle”. That’s the name of his 2015 album, but as he explains, it’s more than that.O’Connor is a wanderer. Originally from San Marcos, California, he has spent the past two years hopping around, crashing with friends here and there, making a quick trip to Europe last year to play some shows, but mostly embracing a life of rootlessness. “Couch life is a little awkward sometimes,” he tells me, thinking out loud about how he never gets to be alone. We talk and walk aimlessly in circles around the park, past the park’s usual characters who play chess, shoot the shit on benches, skateboard on the basketball court.Skream, DJ Premier and Maya Jane Coles to headline MoMA PS1 Warm Up “I wear the same thing every day because it simplifies life for me,” he says. “It lets me just focus on how I feel on the inside. When I started doing it, part me was frustrated with this feeling that you’re supposed to change, or give up on your dreams. So I’m just not changing.”Tompkins is a spot he’s been coming to for a while, a place where he skates when he needs a break from thinking, and one of the first places that felt like home when he got to New York. This afternoon, we run into one of O’Connor’s friends, a film-maker and skater he hasn’t seen in awhile. The two catch up. “You know I’m playing that show this weekend at PS1?” O’Connor tells him. Since the release of the album, this has mostly been his life: writing, floating around the city, thinking.“I care a lot about making space for other people,” he says. “A lot of the things that I care about, I realize, historically it’s been weird for a human who looks like me to just say they are into those things. There was no space for someone like me 10 or 15 years ago. To be represented.”Self-released via Soundcloud last June, O∆ is a rare and sonically varied electronic pop album about suburban survival, imagining something better for yourself and making it out of your small town. O’Connor is a songwriter at heart, and his Prismacolor production tells the stories as much as his words do. Its lead single is a story-song, Oatmeal, wherein he watches a crusty uncle on the couch eating cereal and wonders whether this could be him one day: “He don’t do nothing but watch the TV / Lookin’ like Oscar the Grouch again / But I’m scared that in him I can see / Me if I don’t go out and live out my dreams.” From there, he takes off.Perhaps what’s most striking about O∆ is its emotional resonance. Its sharp lyrics are full of blunt honesty, but the scrappy keys and bright soaring synth lines are tinged with optimism. “Real life has everything,” O’Connor says. “There are these waves. Sometimes people are trying to condense everything that life is into this line of up or down. They’re taking all of the color of the world and condensing it, and they only wanna feel up.” O’Connor says that his emotions come in many hues. “Sometimes I feel so orange and bright and warm and shimmering. And sometimes I feel these red waves of anger. Sometimes I feel a blue rippling.”O’Connor’s bouncing, mid-tempo beats are carefully placed, like his words in conversation. “I’mma make it out / I’m an explorer,” he sings on Natural, over electronics that bloom and chirp. His voice shifts throughout, sometimes a warm spoken-word infliction, sometimes rapping, sometimes a crooning falsetto. “All my friends are on the net / And all my friends are in the net / And all of us are out of it / And none of us are into it,” he sings on Nobody Hangs Out Anymore, a downbeat ode to the ways social media affects relationships. “Growing up on the internet gave so many of us a voice that we wouldn’t really have otherwise,” he says. “But recently, it makes me more and more uncomfortable. Because it feels like on social, some of the values are the opposite of what I value and care about as an artist. As an artist, all I care about is figuring out what’s true to me, and saying that. Regardless of how it’s going to be received. So much of Twitter is people saying things that they don’t feel, based on how often it’s going to get favorited or retweeted. It just gets in the way.”That’s part of why he once tweeted out his phone number, which he thought would lead to better, more real conversations than social media could facilitate. Now kids from all over just text him, and they talk about life, and it’s more personal, he says. “Growing up, I was never that crazy at parties. Sometimes social media just feels like one giant party. So actually talking to real people has always felt more natural to me.”O’Connor is known to unapologetically pursue what feels most natural to him. On the cover of O∆, he is wearing a dress, his previous uniform before the golden top came into his life. He often speaks candidly on his embrace of feminine aesthetics, and the power that lies within that to subvert systems of control. “When you stop accepting yourself, that’s how people control you,” he says. “As a male, there’s so much pressure, not just to suppress your feelings, but to not even accept femininity. Which to me is beyond even being female. Femininity is the part of our psyche that seeks to understand and relate, and see ourselves in relation to things. It’s the lyrical side of us. It’s part of being whole.“I look at media and it tells me that I am a male, and as a male, I am only supposed to want to acquire things, gain power, have strength that has to do with being active and asserting some sense of will,” he continues. “It’s so one-sided. And then because of that, they want me to not be parts of myself. And then they want to sell me a part of myself that’s not me. And then they start controlling me.” O’Connor speaks slowly, looking out in the distance, as if he’s looking towards the future, or maybe just at the pink flowers sprouting up across the park. He loves flowers, particularly the Plumbago auriculata. He and his art director have been working on some synthetic boulders the same color as those flowers. The plan was to incorporate these boulders into the PS1 performance this weekend, but the forecast is looking like rain, and they’re not waterproof, so it might not pan out. Regardless, he’ll roll with whatever gets thrown his way, ride the waves, make it work.O∆ allows him that flexibility, to deal with unexpected situations, though he can’t exactly explain what it means to him. “I can point to the sun, and I can show you the sun, but I can’t tell you what the sun means. And that’s how this symbol is for me. It’s just something that I found in my mind that resonated with me that I picked up. The same way you might find a rock on the ground and pick it up and carry it with you. For me, it gets its meaning from what I’ve experienced with it. It’s helped me grow.” And when I ask him about these boulders he hopes to be traversing this weekend at PS1? What it all means?“Ever ask a bird why it flies? Or a dolphin why it swims?”London O’Connor plays PS1 Warm Up in New York on Saturday. Details here