Tony Warren: Coronation Street's 10 best moments The rules of soap decree that the woman who says: “I am not having a baby in this lift!” is the woman who’s about to have a baby in a lift. Which is exactly what happened to Leanne Battersby, Coronation Street’s bump-holder-in-heels, who gave birth to baby Ollie while marooned in Victoria Court. A towering emblem of gentrification it may be – soaps, eh, always keeping with the times – but, just like real life, maintenance isn’t a priority and phone signal is as rare as truffle mushrooms.Scandal followed, and not just because the baby was such a whopper it looked like it could have got up and walked off. Really, she was lucky the three of them could fit in the one lift. After months of trying to convince the Street’s gossips that the baby belonged to Nick, though, the truth eventually came spilling out when gurning machine Steve McDonald revealed that Ollie was in fact his secret lovechild.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From here to paternity: Leanne keeps mum about the father. Photograph: ITV PlcOf course, the drama didn’t end there. All hell broke loose the moment Steve confessed the deed to his long-suffering wife Michelle (who, to make matters worse, is Leanne’s mate and had recently lost her own baby). Michelle is one of those women who has definitely ignored the league system in choosing Steve as her beloved. “I always knew you were an idiot,” she raged. “But you were my idiot.” Off she went to get revenge, in a rampage soundtracked – as all good breakups are – by a playlist that included both Radiohead and Cher. She slapped Leanne, smashed some stuff and then bolted the doors to the Rovers in some kind of lock-in/siege. She not only sacked Eva without consulting owners Liz and Steve, but dragged her out by the barnet in a ways that hasn’t been seen since the hair extensions-based bitchfights of arch-enemies Tina and Kylie. “She’s just assaulted my weave!” screamed Eva.Outside, there were even more tense scenes as Tim wondered whether or not to enter the pub. “I want a pint with my mate, but I want to support me mate’s wife when he’s been an idiot. I’m torn,” he said. “I feel the same about Brexit.” Life’s not easy for Tim, being in love with the Street’s political dynamo, Sally, who was busy protesting at the wolf-whistlers showing their appreciation for her window-cleaning daughter Rosie. Not that she approves of Weatherfield’s answer to Bella Hadid doing manual labour. “Mum, I’m a natural,” argued Rosie. “Plus it’s a great upper-arm workout.” Preach, Simone De Booboir      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fox and friends: Denise finds herself in an argument with Keegan in EastEnders. Photograph: Jack Barnes/BBCRoss Kemp: ‘People still think I’m Grant Mitchell’ EastEnders, meanwhile, should scrap the misery show and give the fabulous Fox sisters Denise and Kim their own spinoff. Forget Lee “Interesting” Carter’s departure, Michelle Fowler’s flirtation with some Zac Efron-like teenager she picked up in the US and – oh – definitely erase the memory of Ian Beale getting naked. Walford is all about the Foxes, who came into their own when Denise landed in court after slapping bad-boy Keegan.K-Fox has obviously been watching The Good Wife, because she supported her sister like a pro on her day of reckoning. “I’ve got a good mind to go out there and handcuff myself to the railings. This is a miscarrying of justice. You do know who you are, don’t you?” she said, before cranking up the volume to boombox level. “WALFORD’S VERY OWN NELSON MANDELA. I AIN’T ‘AVIN’ IT, D!” Fortunately, Denise escaped with a 50 quid fine, which bought Keegan a new pair of trainers and an even more badass attitude.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The girls is mine: Mac and Nathan fight over Lisa in Hollyoaks. Photograph: Lime PicturesOver in Hollyoaks, there’s been a tragic death. Oh, when hasn’t there? So Nathan and Lisa got engaged, but then he found out she was having an affair with Mac. Yes, her fiance’s dad. As Mac and Nathan fought dangerously/conveniently close to a gaping hole in the wall, Nathan fell and met his grisly fate.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   My Dingle-ing: Frank and Charity get together in Emmerdale. Photograph: ITVAnd so to Emmerdale, where resident fox Charity Dingle seduced Frank with the most random chat-up line of the month: “Why fly economy when you can ride up front with the pilot?” Well, quite. The back room of The Woolpack is her cockpit and she’s had many a man at the controls, but Frank’s going to need an emergency exit with this one.