Don Cheadle discussed how he tried to channel the spirit of Miles Davis in his biopic Miles Ahead and chose an experimental format rather than a more straightforward retelling, while on a SXSW panel in Austin.Joining Cheadle were Felix Contreras the host of NPR’s Alt-Latino who moderated, plus Grammy-winning musician Robert Glasper, Davis’s youngest son Erin Davis, his nephew Vince Wilburn Jr, the movie’s sound mixer Skip Lievsay and trumpeter Keyon Harrold. “I wanted it to be something that was innovative and crazy and kind of gangster,” said Cheadle of the movie. “I was more interested in making a movie in the way that I think Miles Davis would approach that medium, and create a film that he would want to star in as opposed to making a Cliff Notes version of his life.”Miles Ahead review: Don Cheadle is reverent without much to say Cheadle revealed that one of the touchstones of the movie was Thomas Berger’s tall tale of the Battle of Little Big Horn, Little Big Man, and that he also drew some inspiration from the hard-boiled classic The Maltese Falcon, with Davis’s studio sessions, which are fought over by the musician and his record label and his wife Frances Taylor, representing the coveted object. “I wanted to do something closer to Little Big Man,” he said. “Something that was more of a hybrid of historical fiction and biopic, rather than pure biopic. “The secret recording would be the Maltese Falcon. Frances for us was that tape incarnate; she was the muse incarnate. I wanted the film to feel very different from what we’d seen before.”He elaborated on why he wasn’t interested in doing a straightforward biopic and that it was essential for him that the movie, which has received mixed reviews, be something that represented Davis’s approach to life and his work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Don Cheadle as Miles Davis in Miles Ahead. Photograph: PR Company Handout“I wanted to do what Miles did, as opposed to just show who he was. I wanted to take on the task of being like Miles,” he said.Davis’s nephew Vince Wilburn Jr talked about the moment he knew he wanted Cheadle to star in a film about Davis’s life.He said: “The movie had to be done right in with the right kind of components. In 2006, backstage at the Waldorf Astoria I had an epiphany: Don Cheadle. Right away from him being Miles in Devil In A Blue Dress, that attitude, that killer instinct.”He also discussed the lengths Cheadle went to to convince the rest of the family that he was the right person to play the jazz musician. He invited Davis’s daughter and Wilburn Jr to his trailer while shooting his Showtime series House of Lies and played golf with Erin Davis.“This guy Don Cheadle, he really cared what the family thought,” Wilburn Jr said. “He really wanted our input, a lot of times you sign on the dotted line and that’s it, then the director changes their phone number.“He took time on his break and had us come to his trailer. He really cared.”The sensitivity over who plays artists in biopics has come up recently with the furore over Zoe Saldana being cast to play Nina Simone, with the singer’s family criticising the decision to cast a light-skinned actor who wore a prosthetic nose and dark makeup, to play the jazz great.Wilburn Jr added that the way that Glasper, Harrold and Cheadle approached the production – with confidence and conviction – was how Davis would have wanted it and spoke about how little time he had for people who weren’t “on it”.“Don said ‘well, I’m going to direct because I’m the only one that can tell the story.’ When you were around the chief that’s how you had to react,” he said. “You don’t have time to say ‘well, chief, I don’t know or well, chief, we should do this.’ You had to hit it or your ass was out. That’s how he lived his life, right now.”