It was hardly a surprise to learn that Peter Capaldi is to hang up his velvet jacket at the end of 2017. By the time of his exit at Christmas, he’ll have completed the standard stint of three-and-a-bit series as the Doctor. And with showrunner Steven Moffat also signing off, it stands to reason that the incumbent Chris Chibnall would want a clean slate and his own cast.Peter Capaldi leaving Doctor Who at end of 2017 So, while number 12 will remain on our screens for almost another year, let’s indulge in the national pastime of predicting who might be next. Joe Gilgun, Russell Tovey, Rory Kinnear, Harry Treadaway or another as-yet-unknown white male will probably get the part, but how would Doctor Who look if casting were more diverse? Let the trolling commence!Aziz AnsariThe first name on my wishlist would be the Parks and Recreation veteran. Not to tick boxes by casting the first non-white (and indeed, the first American) Doctor, but because Ansari embodies the same impish charm and quiet authority that would put him in the lineage of the Troughton/McCoy/Smith Doctors. In other words, the best ones.Olivia ColmanThough he is frequently trolled for his ability-or-otherwise to write women, one of Moffat’s legacies is having written into continuity that it is possible for Time Lords-and-Ladies to reassign gender. Extending the casting circle to the 51%, the most obvious contender would be the UK’s most beloved purveyor of complicated women. On the plus side, she already has a working relationship with Chibnall after Broadchurch. And it doesn’t quite rule her out that she’s already appeared in the show as villainous Atraxi-Lady.Ruth Negga      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianIt may sound fanciful to include an Oscar nominee on a wishlist based on a BBC budget. But let’s not forget that Capaldi actually won an Oscar for directing the short film Franz Kafka’s It’s a Wonderful Life. Rising star Negga was easily the best thing about the Preacher adaptation last year – her spiky-yet-serene Tulip O’Hare had a decidedly Time Lordy cut to her jib.Miranda HartBear with me! Britain’s plummiest national treasure is the bookies’ fourth favourite according to William Hill. But to me, that casting decision could only come from the imaginations of people who either don’t watch the programme, labour under the illusion that the role is purely a thing of broad comedy, or possibly work for bookmakers.Richard Ayoade      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Jonathan Alcorn/ReutersAyoade already has the other best job in television as the new, permanent host of The Crystal Maze. But possibly the only thing you would break your contract for would be to play the Doctor. The IT Crowd star ticks all the “British eccentric” boxes, but while I don’t doubt, as an accomplished director, that he’s capable of it, I’ve never seen him land the hefty emotional punches this role requires.David HarewoodAs Ladbrokes’ sixth favourite, Harewood tops the odds of black men, now that nobody is under any illusion the BBC could afford Idris Elba any more. I still can’t see it though – something about Harewood is just a little too normal.Bonus white male candidate: Ben Whishaw      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Allstar/Sony PicturesDepending on which metric you go by, the current Q in the Bond franchise is the bookies’ favourite. Whishaw is a wonderfully powerful actor, though in truth, I’m not sure he’s ever made me laugh and cry in a single beat the way this role necessitates. Still, casting the first out gay actor as the Doctor would do a lot to please the fanbase.Who would you cast as the 13th Doctor? Share your thoughts below. 