On 19 June 2008, 49-year-old Esmin Elizabeth Green died in the waiting room of Kings County hospital center in Brooklyn. She had been waiting 24 hours to see a doctor, fell out of her chair, and died on the floor from blood clots that moved from her legs to her lungs. A surveillance video shows security guards walking past her as she lies motionless in the waiting room. A nurse checked her pulse 30 minutes after she died.Eight years on, the New York artist Simone Leigh pays homage to Green in a new exhibition at the city’s New Museum called The Waiting Room. “Obedience is one of the main threats to black women’s health; it was a survival mechanism that Green waited 24 hours before collapsing,” says Leigh. “What happened to Green is an example of the lack of empathy people have towards the pain of black women.”Leigh’s show offers an African American, female vision of healthcare as an alternative to the hugely expensive system in the US, dominated by insurance and drug companies swooping in upon the sick, exhausted and depressed – all three of which described Green. “The project mines certain kinds of knowledge that are passed between black women,” Leigh says. “I wanted to expand the idea of medicine to include other self-defense and care mechanisms like strategy, or even desire, as alternatives to the stamina and obedience that is expected as normative behavior. Herbalism and dance would fall into the category of knowledge that resists the market and capitalization.”Honoring Green, the exhibition therefore includes a public health healing center that offers free workshops on holistic care and a six-week herbalism course, community acupuncture classes and massage sessions alongside a series of health and wellness lectures. “These types of things would have helped prevent Esmin Green from working herself to death,” says Leigh. Green had worked as a caregiver for the elderly and at a children’s day care centre, sending money back to her six kids in Jamaica. “It’s about cultivating a lifestyle that is more self-supporting.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leigh’s herbs, which she is displaying in the gallery. Photograph: Nadja Sayej for the GuardianThe exhibition also offers ways to prevent illness by providing free educational seminars with experts. “We feel the urgency because of what happened to the state of US health care, which is not good,” says Leigh. “From what I have observed, we have one of the worst healthcare systems internationally. And it adversely affects people of color.”This show connects to Leigh’s previous project, the Free People’s Medical Clinic, which she created in Brooklyn in 2014 and which offered healthcare without charge. “The New Museum is not free, so it’s impossible to relocate a Free People’s Medical Clinic here,” says Leigh. Nevertheless, she found a way around the gallery’s $20 entrance fee – outside exhibition hours, there will be workshops hosted in private as part of a project called the Waiting Room Underground.“We will be hosting these workshops when the museum is closed – there won’t be any spectatorship; no photography or video,” she says. “This is a longstanding tradition of continuing your work underground when you’re not allowed to do it in public. I don’t feel like I’m doing anything new. It’s just different because it’s in an art context.”Inspired by African American secret societies and private clubs – such as the free medical clinics set up by the Black Panthers in the 1960s and the United Order of Tents, a society of black female nurses that dates back to the Underground Railroad – Leigh wanted to keep this part of the exhibition out of the public eye.On the museum’s fifth floor, meanwhile, the exhibition features a meditation room with a fully stocked apothecary filled with herbs Leigh has collected from all over the world. “I just brought 70lbs of chamomile into the gallery. It smells great,” she says. “It’s important to take care of yourself with plants rather than rely on pharmaceutical medication.”While statements like this may well cause a storm of protest from the Bad Science brigade, Leigh is referring to historical precedents. “I don’t pretend to be a public health expert,” she says. “The project is more about remembering and honoring the work of the Black Panthers and getting back to the basics of learning how to take care of yourself. In the global south, I have noticed the use of herbs as an everyday, foundational way to care for the body. Some of the herbs in the installation are from a single block in Chinatown on Grand Street that houses several apothecaries, only a few streets from the New Museum itself. I think we have gotten to the point where we don’t realize that pharmaceuticals are in fact derived from plants, and we think the plants themselves are suspect.”Among the six lectures, which are all led by women, is On Disobedience, by the artist Chitra Ganesh, on 30 June, which Leigh describes as “cultivating a culture of protest – something anyone can do even on their kitchen table”. Another artist, Lorraine O’Grady, gives a talk on 4 August called Ask Me Anything About Ageing.Leigh is partnering with local organizations that will bring in groups of black women to attend three different classes, including home economics, self-defence and self-awareness courses led by the herbalist Karen Rose, the musician Karou Watanabe and the philosopher Aimee Meredith Cox. “Most people participating in the clinic are my personal friends,” smiles Leigh. “What can I say? I’m surrounded by fabulous people.”There will also be Taiko drumming classes for LGBT youth and a six-week paid summer internship for teens, who will work alongside museum staff. “I could not be more excited,” says the artist.Leigh’s exhibition is an act of selflessness in a narcissistic, selfie-driven art world. But she doesn’t take all the credit. In fact, she laughs, “I’m not an herbalist or an activist, I’m just an artist.”“In my community, I’ve seen our lives get harder, not easier. I’m finding ways to incorporate self-care practices, suggesting it’s not a luxury – it’s basic self-care.”Simone Leigh’s The Waiting Room is open at the New Museum, 235 Bowery, New York, and runs until 18 September. Sign up for classes on the same day; first come first served. See the full list of classes here