Legendary singer-songwriter and activist Joan Baez celebrates her 75th birthday this year with a tour throughout the US. Her mission: to spread positive political change through her music, remains firmly intact after well over 50 years as a performer.Having marched with Martin Luther King and been a prime mover in the folk revival of the late 1950s – not to mention her role in bringing the then near-unknown Bob Dylan to the world’s attention – she still holds the hope that the world might be a better place and is willing to do her part to make that happen. Even if she has to move to Australia after this year’s election.When do you feel you found your voice as a political activist?The first protest I went to was when I was 15 to protest bomb shelters. If there are bomb shelters, you are assuming there will be a war. At an early age, it just drew me. I followed my nose to my first folk albums, [Harry] Belafonte to Pete Seeger. Seeger really was the example for me. He was the one who mixed the politics and the music. The music couldn’t have done it without the politics. I’d say now, the places in the world that I feel most at home are the ones I feel are in struggle, and I have been associated with them and have worked with them.Do you feel music today still has the power to effect change in society?If people use it properly, it does. I imagine it always will. The question is whether or not people’s intention is [to effect change], you know?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dr Martin Luther King is shown leading a group of black children to their newly integrated school in Grenada, Mississippi, escorted by folk singer Joan Baez and two aides. Photograph: Bettmann/CorbisAny young artists come to mind?[Nano Stern], that Chilean kid I had with me in New York [at Baez’s 75th birthday concert]. I think he’s 24, maybe he’s older [he’s actually 30], but in Chile he is a rock’n’roll star, but he’s also a folk singer who writes songs that are very politically conscious. He really has a huge influence, especially with kids. That’s probably what we need more of.What’s your abiding memory of Martin Luther King?What comes to mind first is when I was in the congregation with him, he’d say something about non-violence, then he’d say: “Joan Baez, she’ll always cry when I’ll talk about non-violence.” [She laughs] Which was true! I just dissolved to tears when he would talk about it. When he talked about anything I suppose.What do you think are the most pressing issues out there today?Global warming beats them all. It’s inevitable and hair-raisingly real. You can show people who don’t believe in it as many charts as you want, about 860 degrees in 15 years – it’s not going to affect them until something affects them personally.Did you ever met David Bowie?I’m sure I met him. I’ve met everybody. My son once asked me if I met Jimi Hendrix, and I said “I don’t think so” and he pulled out a picture, and I said: “I guess I did!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bob Dylan and Joan Baez in London, April 1965. Photograph: Keystone-France/Gamma-Keystone via Getty ImagesYou once had a relationship with a woman, but do you consider yourself bisexual?That’s so funny. That came up as one question in the last 15 years and now it’s circulating again. I remember back then it said “Baez admitted to homosexuality”. I never did anything. I just admitted to having an affair with this woman. That was it, you know.Do you consider yourself a feminist?I’m not really good at labels. I would say, my background in the showbusiness world is not one where I had to fight as a woman. It doesn’t matter what you are. Check out Michael Jackson. I don’t think he ever figured it out, but it doesn’t matter. It never put me in the arena to struggle as a woman. I’m aware that the struggle still goes on. Maybe you call me a feminist because [I’m aware of] the consciousness of the women who are battling. Women in most poverty-stricken countries take the brunt of everything. They take care of the family. If anybody paid them anything, they keep it, because their husbands would just drink it away. They want to put their kids through school. Women are extraordinary! I’ll say that, no question.What are your thoughts on Hillary Clinton?She’s inevitable to run. I don’t want to talk about it too much. Let me put it this way, people think somehow if a women is in office, that her softness or her insights as a women or her making babies will make a difference in policy making and I just don’t think that’s necessarily true.What are your thoughts about the protests around the Academy Awards’ lack of diversity? Sort of inevitable. Honestly, I’m not involved in it at the moment. I take it for granted that this would be the case still. We’ve grown in some ways. In others we have not. Black stars and black movies probably are not as money-making. I don’t even know if that’s true, but why else?What do you think about Black Lives Matter movement?I’m relatively out of touch with things now. I’ve been in my studio painting.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Baez with another legendary songwriter, Taylor Swift and Julia Roberts. Photograph: John Medina/LP5/Getty Images for TASHow do you feel about Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders?Watching Bernie in action is refreshing and watching Trump in action is embarrassing. I mean I have to travel around the world, and when Obama was nominated and running, in the airports it was very different from Bush: people were actually jubilant to say hello. Now, I was in Australia talking to the audience about immigration and I said to them: “If Trump gets into office, you better be ready for an influx of Americans because we’re not going to be able to tolerate it.” If you could live life backwards, would you do anything differently?I haven’t changed my mind. That expression from somebody, that if you were radical when you are young, you can count on being conservative when you are older – I’d say I’m happy that hasn’t been the case.