Spoiler alert: this is published after The People v OJ Simpson airs on FX in the US. Do not read on unless you have watched episode three, which airs in the UK on BBC2 on Monday 29 February at 9pm. Read the episode two blog here.Episode three starts auspiciously, following the accursed Kardashian clan as they spend Father’s Day at the trendy (at the time) Chinese restaurant Chin Chin. It’s full, but due to Robert Kardashian’s newfound fame, he’s able to secure a table right away. Kudos to the production team for filming in the real Chin Chin in Brentwood, redone to look as much like it did in 1994 as possible. These enjoyable small touches reinforce the sense of place (although they mean nothing to anyone who isn’t an Angelino) and almost make me forget how skull-crushingly pedantic I find the further Kardashian foreshadowing. I have a low tolerance for the retroactive significance placed on the OJ trial in the development of Kris Jenner’s reality TV empire. It’s all simply a detour from the meaty, fascinating stuff happening elsewhere in this story.The crux of last night’s instalment was the formation of OJ’s so-called “Dream Team” defence: grizzled drunk F Lee Bailey (Nathan Lane, ably up to the task of meeting John Travolta in Crazy Town), nerdy forensic expert Barry Scheck (Rob Morrow), Alan Dershowitz (Evan Handler) and Johnnie Cochran (Courtney B Vance). The Dream Team really was remarkable, because they got OJ off despite a mountain of damning evidence: OJ’s car had blood in it; the steps leading to his house had blood all over them; his glove was at the crime scene; an eyewitness saw him speeding erratically through Brentwood around the time of the murder; domestic violence 911 calls from Nicole to the police gave him ample motive. Against all odds, this stellar collection of lawyers set him free. How they did it is one of the central questions of the entire miniseries. Was it the unprecedented talent on the defence side, a series of blunders by the prosecution, or a combination of the two? Thus far, there isn’t a firm answer, but executive producers Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski (and episode three writer DV DeVincentis) lay out a variety of factors that contributed to the outcome.The People v OJ Simpson: 21 years on, celebrity culture has changed but race issues have not The controversial Time magazine cover of OJ’s mugshot, darkened for dramatic effect, established the idea that Simpson was the victim of racial profiling. The real cover was certainly more ghoulish than a similar Newsweek cover. Even today, it’s hard to say that the decision to make him look monstrous was racially motivated. The episode paints the decision as motivated strictly by the desire to sell more copies than the competition. Still, the presumption of guilt levied on a famous black athlete preys upon unfortunate stereotypes of black men as violent “super predators,” as Hillary Clinton once called predominantly black gangs in the 1990s. The Time cover and the racist history of LAPD officer Mark Fuhrman, who found the crucial bloody glove at the scene, opened the door for the defence strategy that would lead to an acquittal. Robert Shapiro’s epiphany and subsequent use of the media to reinforce their assertion that the LAPD framed OJ is at the heart of this episode. Travolta’s work remains perplexing to me. At times, I think he’s doing a bad Lorne Michaels impression. At other times, I think he’s just playing himself in a hairpiece. No matter what he does, I’m still captivated by his acting decisions. In no way does he resemble the real-life Robert Shapiro, but the character he’s created is such a whiny, narcissistic sleazeball that I can’t look away. He represents a very real LA type – the person who values their own reputation more than anything else. His self-interest puts him at loggerheads with Johnnie Cochran, the man who says: “I need to look in OJ’s eyes. I need to believe him,” in order to take his case.Cochran cares about OJ. That’s not to say he doesn’t care about himself, too. The scene in which he fields a prank call reveals his eagerness to be a part of the action rather than merely comment on it on CNN. It would be naive to assume that Cochran’s desire to defend OJ was purely altruistic. Up until the point when Cochran joined the Dream Team, it was assumed that Simpson would be convicted without much of a fight. The writers don’t present Cochran as a quixotic altruist. He’s certainly motivated by a desire to take a pound of flesh from the fascistic LAPD, but he like to see himself on TV as much as the rest of them do. What separates him from Shapiro is his natural kinship with OJ. He visits him in jail. He calls him “my brother”. He hugs him. This jibes with the affection Cochran showed OJ in the real trial footage. He shows his client a warmth that aspiring defence attorneys should take note of. Regardless of OJ, or anyone else’s, presumed guilt, our judicial system demands that alleged criminals are able to enjoy a vigorous defence. Even OJ, a violent wife-beater and habitual liar, deserved a spirited trial. I can’t help but think back to Netflix’s Making a Murderer, a documentary series that illustrates a scenario in which the presumption of guilt is so strong that the process is corrupted beyond recognition. I think OJ did it. The majority of Americans think he did it. But one of the many lessons we should take from this story is that what we collectively think as a society is less important than the strict burden of proof we demand of our judicial system. The Dream Team used that to their advantage, punching holes in the district attorney’s case. We shouldn’t be mad that OJ’s lawyers ran through those holes the way OJ used to for the Buffalo Bills. We should be furious that the state didn’t do a better job of protecting its citizens. At the end of episode three, Marcia Clark takes a newspaper out to her backyard. She lights up a cigarette and reads the headline announcing Johnnie Cochran has joined the Dream Team. Her expletive-laden response says it all: she’s worried. She forcefully puts out her cigarette (yet another instance of Clark refusing to finish smoking her cigarettes for the sake of dramatic effect). The DA’s response to this development will change the course of the trial and make race even more important to the outcome. Of all the details ripped from the world of 1990s Los Angeles, the racial strife and mistrust is the most important. Robert Kardashian might have been able to get a table in an otherwise packed Chin Chin on Father’s Day, but Johnnie Cochran might not have been so lucky for reasons beyond his control.