The track you’ll be opening your next DJ set with Snorkel: This Headphone Mix    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When I play with [experimental musician] Kavus Torabi, sometimes it’s billed as a techno set. So we quickly put this track in, which does two things: it doesn’t turn away anybody that’s into techno, but it establishes that it’s not a strictly techno set.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Knifeworl:d High/Aflame    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is Kavus’s band. His new album is very addictive and will appeal to people who like complicated pop as well as many other genres. It’s not necessarily one for the dancefloor because it chops and changes too much, but it’s one I have on in the car and I keep on returning to it.The track that’s been unfairly slept on this yearSteve Davis: 'Call me DJ Thundermuscle!' I would say most of my record collection is unfairly slept on, so to pick out one track would be a bit unfair. However, an artist that’s unfairly slept on is a Manchester band called Trojan Horse. They’re fantastic and have got another album coming out relatively soon. The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Autechre: Nuane   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Most of my music is eclectic but I’d play this track if I was trying to show off what I listen to.The track you always play to rescue a dancefloor Surgeon: Transparent Radiation    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is a track that’s pretty tribal in its beat. If you can’t tap your feet or dance to it, then there’s something wrong.The track I wish I’d never playedMatchroom Mob With Chas And Dave: Snooker Loopy    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Myself and a load of snooker players got together with Chas and Dave and got to No 7 in the charts with this. It was a great laugh but it’s an albatross around my neck. Having said that, I played the tape recently and thought, “This is quite catchy.”The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding Matchroom Mob With Chas And Dave: Snooker Loopy   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Just to upset anyone that was upset by it. I don’t think wedding DJs are doing what they want to do, they’re supplying a demand. I’d play any old crap that was required.Steve Davis and Kavus Torabi play The Social, W1, Sat 