Towards the end of A Man in Love, the second of six volumes in Karl Ove Knausgaard’s autobiographical My Struggle series, the author returns to his native Norway to deliver two talks. Drinking coffee at a kiosk in Kjevik airport, he runs through his cues, reassuring himself: “It’ll be fine … It didn’t matter too much that these were old ideas and I no longer believed in them. The important thing was that I said something.”This notion might also be applied to Knausgaard’s autobiographical novels, which, like real life, can be inconsistent and contradictory. His thoughts on art, philosophy, marriage and raising children can be fallible and often change, but the fact that he has written them down, unrestrained and without moderation, is what counts. In this vein, Knausgaard has produced something colossal, prioritising “presence” and personal truth over all else. I was constantly afraid [and] full of fear, non-stop everyday… But then almost everybody has been extremely generousKarl Ove Knausgaard In conversation with Professor John Mullan at a Guardian Live event on Tuesday, Knausgaard explained what he was “looking for was presence, that was the most important thing: presence in a situation … It’s here and now and that’s the structure throughout the whole book. When I’m 16 it’s here and now, and when I’m 32 it’s here and now.”Following the deep trauma contained in its predecessor, A Death in the Family, which focuses on the writer’s difficult relationship with his late father, A Man in Love turns to the nitty-gritty of Knausgaard’s own family life. The idea was that the first book would be about death and the second about love, which doesn’t necessarily equal a much brighter affair. It’s crammed with frustrations and insecurities – even a children’s party is transformed into gripping, turbulent drama – but there is some relief.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Knausgaard, photographed at his home in Sweden last year. Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose for the Observer“When I delivered it to my editor, the love story wasn’t in it,” he said. “It was only covering the dark side of marriage and of relationships … and I realised that that isn’t fair, that isn’t right. I need light, I need a love story … That was two days before the deadline.”In order to give the book what it lacked, he sat down for 24 hours and wrote 50 pages that went straight in. He found that writing rapidly for such a long time took him into a kind of ecstatic state. “It was a very intense experience and I know I could never write like that again.”Listening to him reflect, one got the sense that this velocity, this unplanned and unrefined approach, was integral to the success of the whole project. He was taught at school to write in short, succinct sentences, but in My Struggle he writes with freedom, allowing impulse and intuition to dictate direction. Everything changed for him, he said, when in 1995 Marcel Proust, with whom he is often compared, was first translated into Norwegian. The long sentences, the movement and flow, were liberating. Before then, he hadn’t been able to write for five years. “I read Proust [and] two years later my first novel came out.”Of course, you can’t discuss Knausgaard’s work without touching on the people he’s written about. At the same time as going to extraordinary lengths to describe in minute detail – and uncommonly prosaic language – the banality of everyday life, he has dedicated reams to the people close to him: his wife, the poet and novelist Linda Boström Knausgaard; his mother-in-law Ingrid, who gets the toughest treatment in A Man in Love; and his best friend, the author Geir Angell Øygarde, for instance.For a work so fearless in its final form, it stands to reason that getting there was a tumultuous ride with a lot at stake, but what he’s done seems to have been largely accepted by those within his immediate circle. “It was very, very risky and dangerous doing this and I was constantly afraid [and] full of fear, non-stop every day … But then almost everybody has been extremely generous.”A Man in Love by Karl Ove Knausgaard – review Despite struggling with some aspects of what he’s written about others, he has no such concerns for what he’s divulged of himself: “I want it to be a good novel and if takes that, I tell everything, even the most embarrassing thing, then I’ll put it in the book, because I don’t care that much for myself – I care much more for writing novels … If I could have cut off my left arm, I would have done it if it ended up in a novel. I don’t regret anything about what I’ve been writing about myself.”• Karl Ove Knausgaard was speaking at a Guardian Live book club event. For future events, visit membership.theguardian.com