If there’s one positive takeaway from the furious sociopolitical mess that has been 2016, it’s that protest music is alive and well in Australia. And not before time.AB Original is the project of Briggs (aka Adam Briggs), the Yorta Yorta rapper, writer, Cleverman actor and Black Comedy star, and Trials (aka Daniel Rankine), the Ngarrindjeri MC and producer best known as one third of Adelaide hip-hop crew Funkoars.Their debut album, provocatively titled Reclaim Australia, is a savage broadside at our national culture, taking on hot-button issues such as police brutality (Call ‘Em Out), deaths in custody (Report to the Mist) and Australia Day (lead single January 26, featuring Dan Sultan).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The duo had been working together for the better part of a decade when they made their official debut at the Triple J 40th anniversary celebration Beat the Drum in 2015. But it was that weekend that they made it official.“We did two or three days around the weekend of Beat the Drum and every single song we worked on is on the album,” Trials says. Briggs adds: “And another song we threw on a mixtape called Black Balls, because it was funny. Sometimes the message has to be funny.”That’s the other thing about Reclaim Australia: it’s funny as hell. And among the puns and wordplay are some downright elegant slams. For example, the hip-hop artist Eso might have deleted his 2014 Instagram selfie – pretending to punch the waxwork of Rihanna at Sydney’s Madame Tussauds – but AB Original have longer memories: “The brothers are back they pay stacks to see ’em,” Briggs spits on 2 Black 2 Strong. “Fuck it up worse than Eso in a wax museum.”“Yeah, it’s a little tip of the cap,” Trials says.“What a dickhead,” adds Briggs.“Someone needs to discuss it,” Trials continues. “One thing you’ll notice about us is that we’re terribly shy about discussing controversial events.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The album’s first single, January 26, doesn’t mince words either, in explaining why Australia Day should be moved to a less insulting date: “I said how about March 8th? We can do it on ya nan’s grave / We can piss up, piss on her face”.The song draws attention to the “absolute absurdity of celebrating the day that our ancestors were slaughtered,” according to Trials. Briggs nods: “But people just hear, ‘They’re gonna piss on nan’s grave!’ The humourless right take it so literal.”It’s not just the humourless right who find the message of AB Original hard to swallow. Who among us expected Australia’s youth, for instance, to get so furiously affronted when Triple J announced they were considering moving the Hottest 100 from Australia Day?“We did,” Trials says.Triple J executive on Hottest 100 date change: ‘Sometimes the majority has to stand up for the minority’ Briggs explains: “The second that you challenge the perceived Australian way, the detractors lose their fucking minds. “The second you tell a white dude he can’t do something – like, ‘Hey man, maybe don’t climb Uluru’, it’s immediately, ‘Fuck that, it’s my right, I can climb it if I want!’ “As soon as you tell them that something’s not for them, it’s, ‘But what about me? This is just reverse racism!’”Trials adds: “It’s like the sexist lunacy that happened with the new Ghostbusters. For fuck’s sake, you have a bunch of Ghostbusters films already. Enjoy them.”January 26 also acknowledges one universal truth that unites all of us: lamingtons are delicious. “We don’t want to take lamingtons away from you – we just want to enjoy lamingtons together,” Briggs laughs.The album’s title is an obvious wink – a reference to the self-declared “patriots” who go by the same name.“Well they fucking should be [delighted by the title],” says Briggs, of the far-right group. “We gave them a lot of promo. What we’ve done is brought a bit of class to the wanky little rallies they do.”“We increased their Google searches tenfold,” Trials says. “Our shit comes up first. Hey Reclaim Australia, we reclaimed the hashtag.”Briggs had been very clear on the name of the album from early on in the process. The idea came after a chat with Michael Hohnen, Gurrumul’s long-time friend and collaborator.“He rang me up and said, ‘I’ve seen the Reclaim Australia people – I thought they were going to be Indigenous guys, because who else could reclaim it?’” He shakes his head. “Oh, poor, endearing, naive Michael.”Don't be fooled. Reclaim Australia won't fade away if starved of publicity | Jason Wilson For AB Original, the key to their music is in juxtaposition between dark and light. “The best comedy comes from tragedy, so we either laugh about it or we fuckin’ cry and flip out,” Briggs says. “We have to find the hilarity in the despair.”That’s no small challenge when you’re writing about Indigenous children being brutalised in detention, or people dying in custody. As subjects go, they’re not obviously fertile ground for comedy.“It’s absurd that this still happens,” Briggs says. “That’s where the humour is, not in someone dying.”“[It’s in the absurdity] that they’re still dying,” Trials adds. “We had a royal commission and it still happens. The irony is not lost on us. “You’ve got to laugh when you’re dealt out so much misery. You must.”Do they see their work as protest music?“Being black, evidently, everything you do is a protest,” Briggs says. “Everything you do as an Indigenous artist, whether you like it or not, becomes a protest.”Trials goes further: “I think rioting and protesting is an important piece of justice. We’re not writing protest songs; we’re writing songs just to raise awareness of the systemic shit that still happens.” Even so, there’s an optimism buried inside the anger and snark of AB Original.“It’s always going to get worse before it gets better,” Briggs says. “That’s the nature of things that are shit.”• AB Original’s debut album, Reclaim Australia, is out on Friday 25 November through Golden Era records. They’re playing at Laneway festivals around the country in 2017