Guilt Trip (Wednesday, 11.30am, Radio 4) is a delight. It was developed by Felicity Montagu and she stars with Olivia Nixon as a mother and daughter who decide they need to re-establish their relationship in the wake of the death of Dad by undertaking a walk along the Thames Path. The surface banter about ill-chosen backpacks and unsatisfactory snack foods camouflages a mother-daughter needle match. It was recorded outside, which adds to the fun, particularly when mother takes a would-be swan thief to task. The fact that Montagu and Nixon are real-life mother and daughter doesn’t hurt either. Working with her daughter, Montagu says, has taught her “how much talent and humour she’s got from me – and how much bossiness and vanity she’s got from her father”.Kudos to Clap Clap (Sunday, 7.30pm, Radio 4), Simon Callow’s history of applause, for managing to include a timely recording of that rousing and oddly threatening Viking clap that was in the end the most memorable thing about the recent football European Championship. Simon Evans Goes To Market (Thursday, 6.30pm, Radio 4) is one of those “edutainment” shows currently in favour at the BBC in which a serious subject – in this case economics – is kicked around by a presenter and a handful of experts in front of a studio audience who laugh just slightly harder than the jokes seem to warrant. This episode focuses on youth and its traditional unwillingness to do much in the way of financial planning. It also touches upon pocket money and the decline of the Saturday job, subjects that, you can’t help feeling, are sufficiently important to warrant some kind of follow-up discussion.One of the saddest aspects of the passing of the pre-eminence of print is that, in the future, designers and typographers will no longer sit around talking, often with a lump in their throats, about long-gone fonts or great kerning disasters. Before that happens, there’s An Obsessive Type: The Tale Of The Doves Type Face (Thursday, 11.30am, Radio 4) which goes in search of the Basement Tapes of font design: the face designed by TJ Cobden-Sanderson of the Arts and Crafts movement. In 1916, during a dispute with his business partner, Cobden-Sanderson flung the Doves typeface, together with the tools required to create it, off Hammersmith Bridge, consigning it to oblivion. This programme concerns a designer’s quest to recover it from the bed of the river Thames. I know people who will weep upon hearing it.Marc Riley’s Musical Time Machine (Tuesday, 11.30am, Radio 4) revisits two interviews from the archive, loosely connected by the artists’ relationship to the counterculture of the late 60s. The first has Marc Bolan talking to John Pidgeon in 1974 about his experiences in the underground in the late 60s. The second has Joni Mitchell talking to Richard Skinner in 1983 about the myth and reality of Woodstock Nation.