The Mr Men are joining the 21st century with the introduction of a handful of new characters to join the primary-coloured ranks of Mr Happy, Mr Bump and their compatriots: the prankster Mr Marvellous, the trendsetting Little Miss Fabulous, the thrill-seeking Mr Adventure and Little Miss Sparkle, who arrives offering “glimmering, shimmering razzle dazzle”.The new books celebrate the 45th birthday of the Mr Men characters, who debuted on the literary stage with the launch of Mr Tickle in 1971, followed a decade later by the Little Misses.Mr Marvellous is “simply a marvel”, able to cook better than Mr Greedy, outrun Mr Rush and even out-tickle Mr Tickle. But when he tries to out-prank Little Miss Naughty, things fall apart. Clad in high heels, meanwhile, Little Miss Fabulous has “fabulous hair … long and luxurious and silky, and it shone in the sun like gold”, but her trend-setting sparks the envy of Little Miss Splendid. And Little Miss Sparkle “is the brightest and sparkliest addition to the world of the Little Misses”, with “her shiny presence … guaranteed to add a little pizzazz to any situation”.The titles will be released later this month as ebooks, with plans to follow up with print editions. They follow the release of Mr Adventure earlier this summer, a new character launched for Heathrow airport but now widely available, who’s “looking for the greatest thrills that money can buy”.“We don’t do new characters very often,” said Adam Hargreaves, son of the late Mr Men creator Roger Hargreaves, who wrote and illustrated the new books. “I was trying to capture what is currently interesting.”Mr Tickle was created in 1971 by Roger Hargreaves when Adam asked him what a tickle looked like. It was rejected by all the major publishers in the UK, but the series had sold more than 1m books within three years. Today, it numbers 87 Mr Men and Little Miss characters, with lifetime sales topping 250m copies.Since Roger Hargreaves died in 1988, Adam Hargreaves’s additions to the Mr Men clan have included Mr and Little Miss Birthday, Little Miss Princess and Little Miss Hug. In 2011, the Mr Men brands were bought by Japanese firm Sanrio. In 2012, Adam created the first character based on a real person, Little Miss Stella, for a Stella McCartney fashion show in Paris.“I hope my dad would have liked my new books - and that he would think they were in keeping with the rest of the series,” said Adam Hargreaves. “It’s one of those weird things. I was never involved with the Mr Men before my dad died, and it took a very long time until I felt I had put in an apprenticeship that meant I could add new characters. There’s always a sense I’m walking in his footsteps, but I hope these capture the humour, which was always a key element of his books.”A recent survey of 1,772 people, carried out by Censuswide, found that Mr Happy is the UK’s favourite Mr Man, taking 18% of the vote. Mr Tickle came in second, with 14%, with Little Miss Sunshine third, taking 7%.This year’s anniversary is also being marked with a pop-up Mini Museum designed for children on London’s South Bank over the August bank holiday weekend, featuring hundreds of pieces of memorabilia from the past 45 years, and the launch of a virtual archive for fans to upload images of their own memorabilia.One collector, Michelle Harrop, has a Mr Men fairground ride in her garden, along with a Mr Men swimming pool and water slide, and has insured her collection for £35,000. Another, Joanne Black, landed a Guinness World Record in 2006 for the largest Mr Men and Little Misses memorabilia collection with 2,225 items. Her collection has since doubled in size.“I can’t wait to share my collection with fans this summer,” said Harrop, who is loaning items from her collection to the pop-up museum. “I first fell in love with the brand as a child reading the books, and know many other adults feel the same..”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mapping social trends... the new five Mr Men and Little Miss characters. Photograph: PRAs part of the anniversary, five existing Mr Men and Little Misses have been redesigned to map social trends over the last five decades – including a punk rocker for the 1970s and a video blogger to represent the 2010s – but these will not be released as books.