Walking into the studio of Viktor Horsting and Rolf Snoeren is like walking into a miniature version of Amsterdam’s Royal Palace – except the king and queen are replaced by two fashion designers and a wiener dog named Little Swan. In this luxurious 17th century building, the Dutch designers behind Viktor&Rolf have filled the walls with avant garde garments, sketches and dolls.A selection of pieces from their atelier will soon be on view in the forthcoming 23-year retrospective Viktor&Rolf: Fashion Artists, opening on 21 October at the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rolf Snoeren and Viktor Horsting, the two halves of the label Viktor&Rolf, in Amsterdam in 2008. Photograph: Anuschka Blommers and Niels Schumm“We decided to call it ‘Fashion Artists’ because we’re artists who work with fashion and the other way around. We do both,” Snoeren says over a cappuccino in their Amsterdam studio.Snoeren and Horsting are not your average fashion designers. They’re known for arty overload: from Picasso cubist couture to oversized, cartoonish bows that call to mind Walt Disney or even Salvador Dalí; stretching the limits of what can be considered wearable art to the point of it becoming unwearable. Impractical and bombastic, Viktor&Rolf is a brand known for sending art for art’s sake down the catwalk.“Maybe it’s fashion for fashion’s sake,” says Horsting.The exhibition will feature more than 35 haute couture pieces from their collections – including Van Gogh Girls, with oversized straw hats – alongside never-before-seen works including wall tapestries made from press clippings. Hovering over a tapestry in their studio, Snoeren points out a copy of their first magazine cover: Purple magazine in 1993. Not all their press has been positive. “We stopped reading reviews at a certain point but we still collect everything,” he says.The designers met as fashion students at the Arnhem Academy of Art and Design. They won a talent contest at the international festival of fashion and photography in Hyères and were called up to the stage as “Viktor and Rolf”. The name stuck. In 1992, they founded their namesake company.They moved to Paris but struggled to generate an audience for their work beyond a small crowd of insiders, and grew impatient with their lack of resources. In 1996 they went on strike from fashion for a season. Instead they showed off their ambitions in an art installation called Dreams in Miniature that featured a doll-sized runway, a fashion shoot and a fake perfume line.The installation brought them notice and extravagant catwalk shows, high-profile fashion shoots and successful perfume lines followed. “We visualised what we wanted and then it happened,” Horsting says.Designers Viktor and Rolf on their creative relationship To say their work is experimental is an understatement. In 1999 they famously dressed the model Maggie Rizer in nine different layers over the course of one show, Russian Doll. For 2003’s One Woman Show they sent the Scottish actor Tilda Swinton down the catwalk alongside models made up to look exactly like her. The soundtrack had Swinton reading a piece of writing about the importance of staying true to one’s vision.Despite their unconventional take on the fashion world, Viktor&Rolf’s work wasn’t always embraced. “There’s a substory to this exhibition,” says the NGV show’s guest curator, Thierry-Maxime Loriot. “You can do your own thing and be creative and not try to be like everyone else in order to be successful.” The exhibition will also feature pieces from their 2015 Wearable Art series, which was Snoeren and Horsting’s first collection after they stopped making ready-to-wear clothing – a collection that involved literally draping women in gold picture frames and Renaissance-style paintings.“We wanted to make a statement,” says Snoeren. “If we are not doing ready-to-wear, what is fashion to us? We thought, it’s wearable art! How do we literally translate it? A painting you wear as a dress.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A painting you wear as a dress’: Viktor&Rolf’s Wearable Art haute couture collection of autumn–winter 2015–16. Photograph: Team Peter StigterThe statement was on par with Viktor&Rolf’s first perfume, which came in a bottle that couldn’t be opened. And when they were asked by Swarovski to collaborate, they covered crystals in flocked felt. The exhibition includes a piece of sound art called L’apparence du Vide (“appearance of empty”). In the 1990s the duo felt that the rise of the supermodel was taking the focus off fashion itself, so they asked a class of eight-year-olds to recite the names of top models (“Amber, Brigitte, Cindy”), as if learning the fashion alphabet.Then there is an oversized cuckoo clock, out of which a doll appears and struts on a catwalk to lights and music. “It’s like the fashion system,” says Horsting. “When the clock strikes, she has to perform.” The duo is no stranger to double meanings. “We like the term ‘conceptual glamour’,” Snoeren says. “It’s just great if there’s meaning behind something that also looks spectacular.”Adds Horsting: “We like contradictions.” The designers look to unlikely sources such Disney for inspiration. “We create the comic-strip version of reality,” Snoeren says. “We have said to each other that what we make should look like it was made by the birds in Cinderella when they make her dress. It’s also in the way it comes across, there’s a certain lightheartedness.”• Viktor Horsting and Rolf Snoeren will be In Conversation at NGV in October. Viktor&Rolf: Fashion Artists is showing from 21 October to 26 February