China appears to have relaxed its rule limiting the number of Hollywood films that can be shown each year in a bid to boost slowing box office returns.In the last few days, a number of Hollywood films have secured release dates, pushing the total released in China this year to at least 38, compared to the usual quota of 34. Deepwater Horizon, Keeping Up With the Joneses and Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children have been given release dates, and films including Doctor Strange, Trolls, Allied, Moana and Sully had been confirmed.Will China's growing box office dominance change Hollywood for ever? The quota of 34 applies to films imported on a revenue-sharing basis, allowing US distributors to collect 25% of box office revenue. Other films can be imported on a flat-fee basis – in which Chinese distributors pay one fee and keep all of the profits – and account for about 30 films a year.According to China Film Insider, a spokesperson for the Chinese film bureau denied that the quota had been exceeded, saying some of the films did not count towards the number as they were “cultural exchange projects”.US studios are keen to capitalise on China’s enormous box office potential. A deal in 2012 increased the number of foreign imports from 20 and also improved the share of profits US studios received. After years of growth in China, box office takings in 2016 have fallen far short of what was expected – just $5.6bn (£4.57bn) of the hoped-for $8.9bn has been made so far. This downturn is thought to have prompted the relaxation of the quota as officials attempt to reinvigorate the film industry. Wang Jianlin: does China's richest man have a plan to take over Hollywood? The 2012 deal was valid for five years and will be up for renegotiation in February, when it appears the quota may be increased considerably. China Film Insider reported that a state official warned the domestic industry to prepare for “intensive and fair” competition, while the Hollywood Reporter suggested that the number of imports was likely to be increased by 10 to accommodate arthouse movies and Oscar winners.