Hot on the heels of the news that Mary Norton’s tiny Borrowers would not have been viable in the real world, two new scientific papers have analysed the spells JK Rowling invented for Harry Potter and concluded that they would need magic to work.In the papers Gillyweed – Drowning with Gills? and Revealing the Magic of Skele-Gro, both published in the Journal for Interdisciplinary Science Topics, students at the University of Leicester analyse two spells used by Rowling’s young wizard: Gillyweed, which enables its eater to grow gills and thus breathe underwater, and Skele-Gro, which repairs broken bones. If Harry were to open his mouth to allow water into his throat and out through the gills, it may be plausibleFrom Gillyweed – Drowning with Gills? Gillyweed, which is eaten by Harry Potter when he is attempting to swim to the bottom of a lake in the fourth book, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, was investigated by natural science students Rowan Reynolds and Chris Ringrose. Looking at the size of Harry’s gills in the film adaptation of Rowling’s novel, they estimated them to be 60cm2 in surface area. They then estimated the oxygen content of the Black Lake, and the maximum oxygen use of swimming, and found that the average 14-year-old boy “would need to process 443 litres of water at 100% efficiency per minute for every minute he was underwater”, meaning that water would need to flow at 2.46 metres per second.“This is extremely fast if Harry is to bring water into his gills through respiratory power alone. The velocity of normal breathing has been recorded as 1.30 metres per second; 2.46 metres per second is almost twice the velocity of normal airflow, which makes Harry’s gills unfeasible,” they write in the peer-reviewed student journal, which is run by the university’s Centre for Interdisciplinary Science and intended to give students practical experience of writing, editing, publishing and reviewing scientific papers.“In the film, Harry is frequently seen swimming with his mouth closed, which is not how fish use their gills,” they add. “If Harry were to open his mouth to allow water into his throat and out through the gills, it may be plausible that he could breathe underwater. However, without doing this, it is simply not plausible that he could extract sufficient oxygen for survival,” they conclude.Quidditch World Cup 2016 hopes to feature first African team Skele-Gro, meanwhile, used after Harry’s arm is broken during a Quidditch match in the second book, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, is shown to be just as magical. In a second paper, students Leah Ashley, Ringrose and Robbie Roe write that after Harry’s bones are broken, they are subsequently removed by the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher Gilderoy Lockhart at 11:13am, with matron Madam Pomfrey prescribing Skele-Gro at roughly 11:50am. Harry is healed within 24 hours, and the students have therefore calculated that his bones regrew at a rate “at least 90 times quicker (one day compared to 90) than is seen in the natural way of regenerating bone”.The energy expenditure required to grow the bones, they calculate, would be “at least 133,050kcal, giving a power output of 6,443W, so “Skele-Gro therefore must contain unexplained magical properties that allow it to hold such a vast amount of energy and indeed be able to apply it in a short period of time”.