It was early morning when I heard about the death of Bek Moore, founder and mainstay of Brisbane underground bands Clag and Scrabbled. Bek Moore – queen of the unruly, a scoundrel, no bullshit, a fervent supporter of DIY and underground Australiana, her freak flag waving high, courageous, mischievous – no longer with us. Not possible, please. Not possible. She was always the greatest part of Brisbane to me. Music You Missed: 10 essential releases from the Australian underground The unsettling 1990s (and reformed 2010s) kiddie-punk band Clag – formed with Moore’s high school friends Rachael Cooke and Alison Bolger – were a beacon of weirdness, surreal humour and unrepentant femaleness at a time when in the main Australian music seemed to be all macho swagger and grunge throwbacks. Live, as Chapter Music recounts, the band would face away from the audience and play with masks taped to the backs of their heads, dress in hospital gowns and bedeck the stage with fluffy Mr Men toys. Members went on to join various stalwarts of the Australian indie scene: Minimum Chips, Panel of Judges and Beaches.Clag were as ramshackle and strange and cute and tough as you could desire. Their songs were about everyday stuff: security men, goldfish, chips, gravy, sci-fi film stars and brains that refuse to function the way they’re told. There is a 23-track compilation of their stuff released in 2012 on Chapter entitled Pasted Youth, worth checking out by anyone who wants to know what lurks beneath Queenslanders in the autumn.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Clag’s influence was unsung but insidious, especially upon an isolated and deviant Brisbane underground scene that spawned Scraps, Bitchratch, Kitchen’s Floor and Bent. It is fair to say all these bands would have sounded very different without the inspirational presence of Moore, who also curated and promoted many of their shows.I first encountered the human dervish that was Moore three years ago: Scrabbled was playing a show just up the road from the west end of Brisbane, ranting about Triple J and calling out any member of the audience brave enough to take her on. Immediately, obviously, startlingly unique. Mountains trembled. Guitars pretended to be violins. Spontaneous, beautiful and belligerent.I was overwhelmed, inspired. “Every town should have at least 10 of these,” I wrote about her band. “Failing that, at least one. If it doesn’t, then you know it’s long overdue time to move town, or to start three of your own.” This, to me, was David Bowie riding out with the stars. This, to me, was Kate Bush swooping through the lower echelons of motherhood. She introduced herself in her first column for my former website Collapse Board: “I’m not a journalist but I’m not so much a critic either ... I’m someone who has played and been around the Australian indie music scene for the past 20 years, contributing to it in some way or another for most of that time.” She worked at 4ZZZ, wrote for her student paper and organised shows, she writes, “and played in I’m not sure how many bands – at least half a dozen, but probably more. Some of them good, some of them terrible and some placed somewhere in the middle. I love DIY.”Scrabbled have recordings too: go for the 2014 album Welcome to Pig City, plaintive, tough and funny. Like Velvet Underground if they had been subject to the unrelenting heat, everyday abuse and suburban sprawl of heartland Australia. Maybe. It features members of the similarly underrated Brisbane band Gravel Samwidge (as beloved by Mudhoney). Music journalist Tiarney Miekus summed up the appeal of Scrabbled well: “Music is just energy at the end of the day and that’s the best way to describe Scrabbled, as Moore screams and the band dysfunctionally goes on, and [guitarist] Dusty Anastassiou starts yelling and joins in the barbarism ...“Often I read and hear lots of conversations about whether punk or even alternative cultures can still exist and whether we’ll ever have the conditions for such a movement to happen again. I find it stupid and boring because the basic tenet for punk still, and always will exist: people who are not only alienated by, but disgusted with, the mainstream culture and status quo. It can’t ‘happen again’ because it’s never completed and all of the bastards are still in power. This doesn’t make it futile, but even more important.”RIP Bek Moore, one of the most punk people I’ve ever known.