The Oscar-nominated actor Tom Conti has defended his co-star Laurence Fox after he swore at a heckling audience member during a play at the Park Theatre in north London.Two lines from the end of The Patriotic Traitor on Tuesday night, Fox altered the script and turned to a man who had been heckling throughout, shouting: “I won’t bother telling you the story because this cunt in the front row has ruined it for everybody.” He then walked off the stage and did not return for the bow.Conti, who also stars in the play, as Philippe Pétain, did not blame Fox for his outburst and said the whole cast had noticed the heckling audience member, who got “worse and worse” as the play went on. Actor Laurence Fox rants at heckler who 'ruined play for everybody' “The man was a real nuisance,” Conti told the Guardian. “Everybody heard him talking throughout and, in the penultimate scene, it got really bad. He was using swear words directed at Laurence but addressed to de Gaulle. I think he was a bit muddled, confusing Laurence with de Gaulle. I don’t know if he was drunk or what.”Conti said Fox had been unwell during rehearsals and the opening of the play, leaving him “completely exhausted”. “Laurence is under a lot of stress and he’s still not feeling well, so when pushed, he snapped back,” said Conti, who was on stage with Fox when he launched into his tirade.“Afterwards Laurence went into the dressing room and was just staring with wide eyes saying: ‘Oh God, what have I done.’ But we weren’t bothered by it, I thought it was quite funny. Ideally the fourth wall should not be broken in either direction, but sometimes ...”Conti said that incidents of audiences talking, commenting and heckling during live theatre were becoming increasingly common as people had become so used to watching entertainment on screens.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laurence Fox on ITV’s Loose Women last week. Photograph: Ken McKay/ITV/Rex/Shutterstock“I think people these days forget that theatre is live, and performed by living creatures, because they watch everything on a screen now,” said Conti. “It’s a very odd society that we live in now.”Speaking to BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, Fox apologised for swearing in front of an audience of 200. “It was a very emotional part of the play and I was very upset about it and am upset about how I behaved,” he said.Fox is from a British acting dynasty that includes his father James Fox, and his cousins Emilia and Freddie Fox. He said his father had told him to “have a little speech prepared” next time.Tom Conti: 'I knew nothing at all about street dance … ' Fox said the man had “started muttering and heckling early on during the play and then towards the end started telling me to f off and sort of moaning about various things”.“I really should have had a little speech prepared and gone: ‘Excuse me sir, you can either leave, or whatever,’” he said. “But instead, in the heightened emotion of the thing, I told him to, er ... “If someone is hell-bent on heckling, they are ruining it for everybody ... it becomes an unperformable play.”Conti, nominated for a best actor Oscar for his role in the 1983 film Reuben, Reuben, said that while Fox was feeling quite remorseful about his outburst, the rest of the cast and crew were quite unfazed. “This is a mountain out of a molehill and poor Laurence is very contrite about it. We were right at the end of the play and none of us are bothered,” Conti said. “It was a very funny line and is one of those incidents on the stage that actors will tell at dinner parties for years to come.”His comments were echoed by Jonathan Lynn, who wrote and directed the play.Fox is far from the first actor to lose his cool on stage. In 2014, Kevin Spacey snapped at an audience member whose phone went off during the opening night of Clarence Darrow at the Old Vic. Still in accent, he snarled: “If you don’t answer that, I will!”The American actor Patti LuPone took a similar stand last year at a performance of Shows for Days when she walked into the crowd midway through the performance and snatched a phone from an audience member who was texting. In 2013, James McAvoy broke the fourth wall during a performance of Macbeth, when he shouted at a man in the audience to “put his phone away”.• This article was amended on 11 March 2016. An earlier version referred to Emilia and Freddie Fox as Laurence Fox’s siblings rather than cousins.