The Hairy Bikers’ Chicken and Egg 8pm, BBC2Si and Dave enjoy an interesting double life as both the stars of their fairly pedestrian cooking/lifestyle shows, and the subject of endless parodies by Leigh Francis and John Thomson. If only they were as exciting as their sweary counterparts on Celebrity Juice: in this not-misleadingly titled series, they attempt recipes based solely on poultry. Could a trip to cook lemon tagine with rebel Berbers in north Morocco spice things up at all? John RobinsonNational Treasure 9pm, Channel 4 Robbie Coltrane is Paul Finchley, a beloved old-guard comedian accused of rape, in this exhilaratingly timely and very convincing four-part drama. In the opener, Finchley’s cushty world swiftly disintegrates following a ring of the doorbell, with even his very tolerant wife (Julie Walters) beginning to give him the cold shoulder. Whether the comic is guilty is a mystery, but this will feel strangely regressive if he turns out to be innocent. Rachel AroestiBricks! 9pm, BBC4The “Is it art?” debate was born in 1976, when the Sunday Times sniffed at a Tate exhibit that was merely two neat layers of bricks on the floor. Fuelled by the gallery showing Equivalent VIII by US minimalist Carl Andre unexplained and out of context, a huge row raged about whether the piece had merit; its value was, of course, proven by the debate itself. It’s all recalled here by the main participants in a sparky doc ripe with unwitting comedy characters. Jack SealeIt Was Alright in the 1970s 10pm, Channel 4 The nostalgic clip show is now such a staple that one wonders how much miscellanea from our TV past can possibly remain unexplored. Still, Matt Lucas returns to narrate another series, this time venturing beyond the comfort zone of 70s light entertainment and into the decade’s current-affairs output. Expect antediluvian novelties including widespread union membership and Labour governments. Phil HarrisonRectify 9pm, AMCThird series opener of the slow, sad and very southern drama that’s a hidden gem to rival better-known US imports. Aden Young stars as Daniel Holden, back with his family after spending 19 years on death row for the murder of his girlfriend; the conviction overturned but the authorities still on his case. In this two-parter, Daniel struggles with his banishment order and Amantha has to decide whether she must serve a life sentence working at Thrifty Town. David StubbsVice Principals 9.35pm, Sky AtlanticSeries finale for Jody Hill and Danny McBride’s dark scholastic sitcom. The endgame approaches for Neil Gamby and Lee Russell’s plans to take down Belinda Brown, each veep desperate as ever to seize a position of power while fuelled by priggish entitlement. If nothing else, the antics of the incompetent co-conspirators striving to usurp a woman holding high office provide a suitable cypher for the Trump-trumpeting alt-right. Mark Gibbings-JonesAlex Jones: Fertility and Me 10.45pm, BBC1 The One Show’s Alex Jones began to ponder motherhood at 38, and this documentary follows her as she finds out her chances of conceiving. When she discovers her mother went through an early menopause, there’s a sense of urgency, and the documentary does have moments of “Women, don’t leave it too late!” Even so, it’s balanced and optimistic, and full credit to Jones, who manages a straight face when she comes up against a testicle measurer. Hannah Verdier      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Le Quattro Volte.Film choiceLe Quattro Volte (Michelangelo Frammartino, 2010) 2.20am, Film4Le Quattro Volte, the name of which relates to the life-force theory of Pythagoras, tells a tale of the four seasons via an ailing old goatherd, a charcoal kiln and a great fir tree. Very few words are spoken and any action is filmed at a semi-distant remove, yet it’s a deeply involving and compassionate story. Paul HowlettLive sportATP tennis: The St Petersburg Open Coverage of the second day of the indoor tournament from Sibur Arena in Russia. 10am, Eurosport 1Betfred Cup: Rangers v Queen of the South Action from the quarter-final at Ibrox. 7.15pm, BT Sport 1League Cup football: Leicester City v Chelsea A tricky away test for Chelsea in this third-round match against the reigning champs (kick-off 7.45pm). 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1