Audience graphicTV ratings for the Oscars broadcast have been on a steep decline in the US, despite the producers revamping the ceremony and drafting in an endless parade of new hosts. Polls this year suggest that a Trump-focused show could prove a turn-off for his supporters – so incoming host Jimmy Kimmel will have his work cut out. The one thing that does make people tune in is really giving a damn about the big movie. In 1998, 57.3m people watched James Cameron’s iceberg-fated romance trawl its way to 11 wins. This year, six in 10 Americans can’t name a single Oscar nominee. You do the maths.Nominations graphicTop of our charts of the actors, actresses and directors to have been nominated multiple times is poor old Peter O’Toole, who never got to hold a gong despite it being dangled in front of him no fewer than eight times. But spare a thought for Roger Deakins, the brilliant cinematographer who’s been unsuccessfully nominated for an Oscar 13 times … although this year could at least see a happy ending for Hacksaw Ridge’s sound mixer, Kevin O’Connell. If he wins on Sunday, he’ll break his own record for the longest losing streak in Oscar history: currently at 20 nominations to zero wins. Box office graphicRemember how people tuned into the Oscars when a massively popular movie won – and how they’re less keen when little-seen films triumph? Just to underline that point, here’s a comparison of the takings of the best picture winner and the box-office topper in the US the same year. Last year, for instance, Spotlight made 5% of the total takings of Star Wars: The Force Awakens. R-rated graphicDeadpool, Ryan Reynolds’s filthy – and filthy rich – superhero movie had been tipped to sneak into this year’s best picture nominees. That it didn’t might well have been on account of its language. The tolerance of Oscar voters for that sort of thing has declined dramatically since the 70s, when an X-rated movie (Midnight Cowboy) actually won best picture. Source material graphicObviously. But optioning a brilliant book is also a very good way forward. Failing that, try to dream up your own idea. Just don’t take your cues from telly. Dead or alive graphicNobody loves a good deathbed scene more than Oscar voters, it seems. Roughly 20% of best actor and actress winning performances feature the character expiring at some point in the film. So it’s well worth flicking to the end of the script to start with. Oscar bait graphicBen Stiller’s controversial comedy Tropic Thunder suggested that actors eager for an Academy Award should never go “full retard”, but that going “part retard” (like Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man or Tom Hanks in Forrest Gump) was a guaranteed winner. The dominance of Oscar wins for lead performances featuring a character with mental health issues lends credibility to the quip. Hair graphicFinally, the data everyone’s being waiting for: what hairstyle is best if you’re tilting for a prize? For both sexes, the results are conclusive: get it chopped off if you’re a fella, and ladies, don’t be afraid to go au naturale. And, chaps, if you can’t make it, fake it: a surprising number of hairpieces have proved triumphant. 