The Elizabeth Greenwood I meet on a recent afternoon in Brooklyn’s Boerum Hill neighborhood seems the least likely person to fake her own death. She is ebullient and animated, her voice rising when passionate about a particular subject. She has a job she loves and is in a serious relationship. She’s also brought along her adorable Jack Russell-chihuahua Bonnie, whose tail brushes up against my leg as she slurps water from a bowl helpfully provided by the waiter.But the Greenwood I meet is not the woman of five or so years ago. Back then, burdened by more than six figures of student debt and after a conversation with a friend, she sought out the rabbit hole of death fraud and fell straight down – all the way to a fake death certificate in her own name.The result, publishing on 9 August in the US, is Playing Dead: A Journey Through the World of Death Fraud. It features a motley cast of Ponzi schemers, insurance fraudsters, celebrity hoaxers and the people who love them, believe in them, or hunt for them, in various straits of desperation and skepticism.Greenwood’s book, her first, is catnip to someone like me, who has occasional idle thoughts about the possibility of faking their own death before rejecting those thoughts as ludicrous and unattainable fantasy. But then, I’ve been reading up on deaths accidental and homicidal since I was a child, excitedly listing to my mystified parents all the baseball players who were murdered. Was Greenwood similarly obsessed with the topic as a kid?“I’m not an inherently morbid person,” she says, “but I am very drawn to the darkly comic and absurd, and I don’t think there is anything more at the crossroads of comic absurdity than faking your own death.” Greenwood, who was finishing up an MFA at Columbia (where she now teaches), sensed that death-faking would be a good topic for a book, but her professors were less certain: what was her story, what was her through-line?Then Greenwood found private investigator Frank Ahearn, author of How to Disappear, and profiled him for the Believer in 2012. Ahearn, when he first started helping people fake their deaths, believed in the importance of creating a negative trail, an identity with little trace, almost an anti-legend.He has changed his tune of late, Greenwood says. It’s now better to have a digital presence, with “mirror sites” featuring the same name as yours, and to “stretch your footprint” so that information passes through multiple people before it reaches you. “We get so caught up in the technological aspects that we forget about the analog side, and that’s how people get caught.”It took “the better part of a year” of emails, dodged calls, last-minute cancellations and other near-misses before Ahearn finally agreed to talk to her. Greenwood switches to a tough-guy patois to imitate Ahearn as he explained his reluctance to open up: “‘I googled you and saw you were a cute girl, thought it was a honeypot scheme, thought they were setting me up.’ I said, but Frank, for what? And he said: ‘Anything, it could have been anything!’”The other investigative expert Greenwood features in Playing Dead, Steven Rambam, was almost as elusive and even more perplexed as to why she pursued the topic. But as Greenwood, over the period of years, asked Rambam and Ahearn better questions, switching from “What’s the best way to fake a death?” to “What’s the motive behind a certain way to fake a death?”, the more they trusted her. She was still taken aback when Rambam, after going through every other possible psuedocide scenario, brought up the idea of faking a suicide. “You ask yourself all the tactical questions, all the moral questions, all the strategic questions,” he tells Greenwood in the book. “If the stars align, you kill yourself.” But, as Greenwood tells me, “the type of person to fake a death is not the type of person who is suicidal”.Greenwood is just over 30 and the vast majority of known cases – this isn’t exactly something that can be scientifically quantified – are committed by middle-aged men. People like John Darwin, the “canoe man” who faked his death in 2002, turned up alive in 2007, and is now something of a minor celebrity. Or Olivia Newton-John’s former boyfriend Patrick McDermott, who staged his drowning and now, apparently, lives a new life in Mexico. If women are out there faking their deaths en masse, they haven’t been caught, or if they have, they aren’t talking about it.Getting inside the mindsets of death-fakers like Darwin and jailed financier Sam Israel is heady enough. The most surreal set piece in Playing Dead is when Greenwood essentially embeds with an extreme side of celebrity fandom: Michael Jackson death hoax truthers, known as “the Believers”. As with all fan cultures, there are factions who fight vociferously on Twitter and on message boards.In particular they argue about one woman named Pearl, who held up a mysterious man nicknamed “Peter Pan” as Jackson, returned from the dead. Greenwood, in her multiple conversations with Peter Pan, walks a fine line between empathy and gullibility as she listens to his excuses and prevarications, and largely pulls it off.“I loved Pearl and the Believers so much,” Greenwood says. “They were so refreshing. When I report I’m like a double-edged sword. On the one hand, when I interview people I’m extremely gullible, going along with what they say, but later, when I’m away from them, I go, hey, wait a minute!”It’s not that she agrees with what they say at the time: “I’m always asking questions, but I always say yes to their answers. I try to see through their perspective. I wasn’t going to drop any new knowledge. They hear they are crazy every single day. I have a lot of respect for what they do. It takes a lot of gumption.”After so many absurd scenes and stories, Playing Dead needed a journey endpoint to work as a whole narrative. For Greenwood, that point arrives in the Philippines, a veritable ground zero for death fraud, where black market morgues thrive and obtaining a fake death certificate is shockingly easy, with the right connections and enough palm-greasing cash. As Greenwood writes, her quest was catharsis: “It’s like the moment when you catch your breath after nearly being run down by a taxi: a brush with death shocks you back to life.” Though Playing Dead takes anxiety about student loan debt beyond an extreme, that anxiety is more prevalent in the culture, with novels such as Camille Perri’s The Assistants and a segment on Last Week Tonight with John Oliver (its debt forgiveness exercise owing much to prior work by activist groups like Strike Debt).“I still feel a lot of stigma,” Greenwood tells me. “But the book has my financial history on the dust jacket! It’s been kind of liberating, in a way, to talk more openly. The debt is part of who I am now, and it’s a big part of people’s experiences, informing decisions large and small. Writing this book was a way to make light of it and not let it own me.”As Greenwood works to pay off her remaining debt, she’s on to her next project of the criminally absurd: prisoners and the women who write letters to them, profess their love for them, and in a number of cases, marry them. This project is why, when I ask Greenwood if it was weird to get mail and collect calls from prisoners for Playing Dead, she laughs. “I get calls every single day now.”