At the end of Carla Bozulich’s online biography is a warning and an invitation: “She bites. Please feel free to touch her.” It makes her sound like a volatile cat, an impression borne out when you listen to her voice. In restrained mood it’s sleek and plush as midnight fur – but at the slightest provocation it becomes a yowling, scratching, gnashing thing, ripping into entrails and spitting blood. Watching her perform live, there’s no doubt that the voice controls the woman, rather than vice versa: her body contorts around it, as though it’s pummelling her from the inside. No wonder Bozulich discusses her voice with a certain resignation in interviews: “I would consider myself actually a writer, not just of lyrics,” she told a Canadian magazine in 2014. “I’m not a great musician. I think I’m a pretty fucking good lyricist. And I have the voice I have.”Listen to Carla Bozulic’s album Boy on SpotifyIt was a piece of her writing, as much as her music, that made me a devoted fan of Bozulich. In the mid-1990s, she published a short text in a fanzine, with the title Involuntary Movements of the Extremities: I Was Touched by Gustav Mahler, in which a woman looks back on a period in her life, around the age of 20, when she was financing her addiction to heroin and cocaine through increasingly risky prostitution. She recalls a sentimental hero trying to save her by booking her into rehab and giving her the collected symphonies of Mahler, which “caused my nerves to unhinge even further and reminded me of everything that was, and had ever been, wrong with the world”. Although the boy didn’t last, Mahler did, the “beauty and horror” of his music echoing her hard-won love of life. The heightened mood, the unvarnished tone, the compression of the writing dazzled me: the story was framed as fiction, but I – impressionable, and knowing that Bozulich had, in her late-teens and early 20s, almost died through drug abuse – read it as eye-opening fact.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Slippery and ambiguous’ … Carla Bozulich Photograph: Carlos Chavez/LA Times via Getty ImagesTwo decades on, and the qualities of that story remain characteristic features of Bozulich’s songwriting: fearless, visceral, bleak yet shot with hope; seemingly autobiographical yet slippery and ambiguous. Her lyrics have the ravaged intensity of deeply excavated personal truth, yet as often as not, the perspective she sings from is male, not female – and, as a fan of folk and country music, she has a way with the murder ballad that would have earned her multiple life sentences if any of it were real. With the Geraldine Fibbers, the first band she formed to her own vision, she served murder ballads up like good whiskey on the rocks, straight and icy with fire at their heart: Pet Angel starts cheerfully, a bucolic waltz, but glowers as a woman is set upon and retaliates; Outside of Town is grinding, inexorable, violin keeling as another abused woman takes her revenge. On her most recent, solo album, Boy, Bozulich presents an intriguing twist on the theme: Gonna Stop Killing, the reflections of a hitman making the decision to move “out of range”, her voice flat and cool over needling chimes.The intriguing twist is also Bozulich all over: the Geraldine Fibbers were a deliberate contrast to the queer-electro-punk outfit (Ethyl Meatplow) that preceded them; Boy she describes as a pop album, and so what if it’s an angular, crepuscular one. When she was between bands in the early 2000s, she gave herself a break from songwriting by covering an entire album, Willie Nelson’s Red Headed Stranger, treating its songs with profound respect while tilting and distorting them. (Far from balking, Nelson loved her interpretation so much he asked if he could sing on it.) Although presented as a solo album, Red Headed Stranger was one of many collaborations with jazz guitarist Nels Cline, who joined the Geraldine Fibbers for their second album and encouraged Bozulich’s interest in improvisation on the only album of their duo, Scarnella. Bozulich was never one for convention, but you get the impression that Cline – the kind of guitarist who won’t play with a pick if a whisk or a hammer would do – cemented her desire always to challenge herself, to push to the extremes of music’s possibility. That’s the impulse behind the deconstructions of Boy, but it also finds expression in Voyagers, her ongoing, ad-hoc series of musical installations programmed within performance-art spaces. None of this makes Bozulich populist – but it does make her endlessly fascinating.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Dragon Lady by the Geraldine FibbersShe’s been in music long enough now that she’s come to see statements of longevity not as a “point of pride” but a “death sentence”. In another interview in 2014, with the Quietus, she worried that “younger people, who are my audience” would be put off by a person her age singing about sexuality, which she does, fiercely and with compassion. It’s hard to imagine Nick Cave – the singer to whom she’s most often, and favourably, compared – entertaining such anxieties, and her ongoing obscurity, while deliberately chosen, is also a mark of the sexism still prevalent in pop culture. But there is something else that keeps Bozulich cult: her requirement that audiences give, too, meeting her truth and energy and darkness with their own. “My music basically exists to connect with other people, to find the sickness in people and not try to cure it or fix it, but to try and find some kind of bond,” she has said. Those who choose to bond with her, do so for life.