Drawn From Life: People On Paper, LincolnDrawn From Life is concerned less with the disciplined life-drawing tradition of nudity than with the intimacy of one person reflecting on the presence of another using the medium of sketching. It’s a simply themed Arts Council show, but one that has touching moments. Gwen John kicks it off with her painfully sensitive studies, while Woman Combing Her Hair by John’s contemporary Harold Gilman similarly glimpses the momentous in the mundane. Bringing the show more up to date are Frank Auerbach’s intensely laboured scrawls and Mimei Thompson’s spooked-out undergrowths. In our digitally mediated world, it is edifying to be reminded of the tactile power of a pencil.The Collection, Sat to 17 AprRCNotes On Gesture – I, II, III, LondonIn Table Of Contents, a 2014 live movement installation that toured venues including the ICA in London and Arnofini in Bristol, the Siobhan Davies Dance Company posed the question of how one goes about first exhibiting, and then archiving, dance and movement. How can we register a gesture, remember and repeat a motion, when the bodies that made them inexorably age, deteriorate and ultimately disappear? While the show was framed in the context of formal dance, for this three-part exhibition curated by artist Jeremy Millar, which features the work of Paul Elliman, Heather Phillipson and Rebecca Warren among others, the net is widened. With reference to the cult cultural theorist Aby Warburg, Millar explores how everyday gesture is historicised and what that might mean for cultural and social identity over time.Siobhan Davies Studios, SE1, to 27 NovOBRichard Smith, Letchworth Garden CityThe inaugural show for this new public gallery goes to a local boy. Smith was born and raised in the Hertfordshire garden city. Yet in the early 1960s, he travelled to New York, where he encountered the early flowering of US pop art, the most formative influence on his bright, abstract canvases. While the artist represented Britain at the Venice Biennale in 1970, and was given a retrospective at the Tate in 1975, he’s been permanently settled Stateside for the past 40 years. Indeed, Smith’s use of colour has an inherent sense of American optimism to it. One can also trace a lineage between the jet-age Googie architecture of the freeway and Smith’s unstretching of his canvas, disrupting the flat plane of the painting into sculpture signage. So, a homecoming of sorts.Broadway Gallery & Studio, to 5 JunOBAV festival, North-east England      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pallavi Paul, Long Hair, Short Ideas, 2014.The 2016 edition of this biennial multimedia event is ambitious. Its subtitle – Meanwhile, What About Socialism – is taken from George Orwell’s The Road To Wigan Pier. While “socialism” was the most-searched word on Merriam-Webster in 2015, the art world often seems conspicuously non-partisan. Redressing the balance are a series of exhibitions, performances, screenings and talks scattered throughout Newcastle, Gateshead, Sunderland and Middlesbrough. The tendency is towards questioning the powers that be, focusing on the specifics of real individuals. Hugo Canoilas’s grotto (Workplace Gallery, Gateshead, to 27 Feb) is a make-believe maze of miners’ banners and propaganda clippings, while Pallavi Paul’s films (Baltic 39, Newcastle upon Tyne, to 27 Feb) trace Indian women’s struggle for recognition. RCVarious venues, Sat to 27 MarRCInside Out, ManchesterInside Out is co-curated by David Maclagan, author of Outsider Art, a book that contentiously helped to cement the creativity of the obsessed and dispossessed as a genre in itself. The artists here have variously suffered from clinical depression, Asperger syndrome and a pathological fear of dying. It’s an uneasy collection but does establish common stylistic concerns. The interior turmoil is typified by Peter Darach’s Hell’s Mouth triptych, and throughout there’s a fixation with claustrophobic patterns. The show may problematically group together divergent sensibilities, but it is thought-provoking nonetheless.Castlefield Gallery, Fri to 24 AprRCBandits Live Comfortably In The Ruins, LondonIn 1989, an article in Country Life suggested beautifying petrol stations by disguising them as rustic cabins or in similarly bucolic architectural costumes. Such an idea of creating environmental fiction underpins this group exhibition curated by artist Sean Lynch. The gallery is the former home of the late British conceptualist John Latham, and Latham’s theoretical land art project concerning the Lothian bings also looms large. Riffing on similar theories of environmental transformation, and the readjustment of our relationship to natural and not-so-natural surroundings, are the wood sculptures of Seanie Barron and Sam Keogh’s phone-shaped lumps of rock.Flat Time House, SE15, Thu to 2 AprOBMark Wallinger, LondonPredicting what form Mark Wallinger’s work will take next is a fool’s errand. From giant white horses and replicas of the Doctor’s Tardis to donning a bear costume and investing in a real racehorse (named A Real Work Of Art), the Essex-born artist keeps us guessing with his projects. It might sound pat but there is one thing that does unite them, and that is the artist himself: in fact, the self, the bodies we inhabit and the way they rub along together to form something called society lie at the heart of Wallinger’s practice. For this show, titled ID, the artist brings this central facet of his output to the surface with a new series of Freud-referencing works, including a video of an Ilford roundabout shot on a phone and paintings that nod to Rorschach tests, scaled up to the dimensions of Wallinger’s height and armspan.Hauser & Wirth, W1, to 7 MayOB