 Why do you think un-heroic characters areso popular in children’s books just now? And can you recommend me some more to read please! Kids who look like “losers” are certainly riding high in books at the moment. Jeff Kinney’s 10 volume series The Diary of a Wimpy Kid has dominated the best-seller list in both the US and the UK for several years. How to draw … Tom Gates And the UK’s homegrown and equally delightful Tom Gates, who first appeared and immediately shot to fame in Liz Pichon’s The Brilliant World of Tom Gates, has also starred in 10 books.Both Tom and Greg Heffley, the self-confessed wimpy kid of The Diary of a Wimpy Kid, define themselves in their doodles, by their unwillingness to engage in the competitiveness of their class mates and by their general sense that being observers of the world they live in, as much as participants. Like the wimpy kid, Tom Gates was an immediate success with readers; The Brilliant World of Tom Gates won the Roald Dahl Funny Prize in 2011, a Red House Book Award and the 5-12 category of the Waterstones Book Award. If was as if readers had been waiting for just this kind of story.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   See Jim Smith get grilled by Barry Loser himself in our hilarious World Book Day video.Both these series were much helped by being vibrantly illustrated throughout. As are others in the same vein such as Jim Smith’s Barry Loser series which began with I’m Not Loser, the first of Barry’s notebooks in which he writes about overcoming his “outsider” image and the way he is regarded by others. How to draw… Timmy Failure Stephan Pastis’s Timmy Failure, the hero detective of Timmy Failure: Mistakes were Made and other titles, is also apparently underachiever but with an unusual talent for sleuthing. Although not a loser in quite the same way as the others, Alan MacDonald’s Bertie the eponymous hero of the Dirty Bertie in another who revels in his outsider status and turns into something tangible by being determinedly unkempt and yes, just plain dirty! In all of these, through the stories and the illustrations, outsider kids are given a great image; they appear to be smarter, funnier and curiously cooler than all the rest. They over turn the idea that a hero has to be a kind of super star such as the demi-god Percy Jackson in Rick Riordan’s fabulous Heroes of Olympus series. Rick Riordan: 'I’ve loved mythology since I was a child. They were my gateway into reading, and writing!' But the current crop of outsiders are not an entirely new phenomenon. They have been just more obviously defined by their characteristics which have then been accentuated by the brilliant storytelling in words and pictures. Fictional underdogs have always been valued because they have characteristics which everyone can identify with. They also give hope, just as Hans Christian Andersen’s famous story of The Ugly Duckling does, that even the unglamorous can become something amazing at some point. Underdogs beating the odds to win are fun to read about. Fictionally, they have further to travel; that is more interesting than if they are high achievers from the first. Although not like the current group of “losers” in that they then go on to greatness, stories such as David and Goliath from the Old Testament in which tiny David armed only with a slingshot defeats the mighty Goliath or the Arthurian legend of how a young, unimportant boy pulls the sword from the stone when many other far more highly valued men and boys had failed, show that there are no restrictions on who can be successful. Louis Sachar: 'I make up the story as I go along, but a lot of it is really bad' In recent fiction, Louis Sacher’s Stanley Yelnats, the star of his classic novel Holes, is the kind of boy to whom disaster happens to the extent that he is sent to Camp Green Lake, the correctional facility for boys which hides a secret, because of a totally random accident. Bad luck is one manifestation of being a loser. And Stanley’s triumphant ability to overcome it is part of the books appeal. Jerry Spinelli’s novel Loser is up-front about Zinkoff’s failure to conform to the behaviours of all those around him. He is one of those people who never seem to do quite the right thing. But gradually the tide turns and his individuality becomes more important than his oddness. Top 10 greatest underdogs These outsider characters are important for challenging conformity and for broadening readers’ views about what makes for success. At a time of immense pressure on children to fit in, to achieve within a very specific set of norms and to look a certain way, books that show other ways of being successful or even just happy become increasingly important. No wonder readers so enjoy the wimps, failures, dorks and the rest.Who are your favourite losers in children’s fiction? Tell us on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add your ideas to this blog. You can use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.