She looks like a fly in a fur coat; her wings made of clear cellophane with black bat markings; her syringe proboscis not for piercing flesh but sipping nectar; she is either a blur of speed or a full stop. The bee-fly is a chimera of contradictions and as true a sprite of spring as any of the animals associated with the season.Sunlight forms pools under the ancient trees in the park at Croft Castle in Herefordshire. The great trunks of sweet chestnut trees, grown according to legend from chestnuts captured from Spanish ships at the Battle of Trafalgar, spiral on a bank above an oak that is a thousand years old. Its massive trunk, broken, bulging with the fearlessly mischievous expression of Pan himself, still sprouts living branches. Like love, violets gladden the heart If the Quarry Oak is the stubbornly resistant face of life, then the bee-fly is its fleetingly ephemeral one. Bombylius major has been hovering at the solar discs of lesser celandine flowers, feeding on nectar and sunshine, becoming stronger and faster by the minute. In the accelerated world of flies, she will mate soon and when her eggs are ready, she will seek out the tunnel entrances of mining bees of Andrena species and flick them into the holes or as close to them as possible. When the eggs hatch, the spectral pale larvae will travel into the bee mines, seek out the eggs and larvae of the bees and eat them. What with parasitoids of larvae such as bee-flies, external parasites such as mites, internal parasites such as nematodes, predators such as wasps and cuckoo bees disguised as offspring to deceive parents – it’s a wonder there are any bees left. Of course, like the ancient oak that has endured its “outrageous fortune” for so long, the bee population can weather such attacks – it’s the changes in climate and profligate poisons we are responsible for they can’t take. The bee-fly is an actor in the uncanny drama of life feeding on life; a noble parasite with the glamour of a celluloid film star, a femme-fatale misunderstood and maligned for the briefest of lives.Follow Country diary on Twitter: @gdncountrydiary