It is a small town story where everyone knows everyone. It’s a story about a girl who is a victim and who is never treated right. It is a story about a boy who got away because of his rich status and connections. It is a story about a girl who isn’t trusted because she came from the wrong side of the town. It is the story about a group of ‘friends’ who are bullies. It is the story about a girl who is dead on the inside.Romy Grey believes she is dead. It is because of how she has been treated in the past. She hates the town she lives in and cannot wait to get out. Romy’s stylish looks - red lipstick and red nail polish - hide the real Romy and that is exactly what she wants. The real Romy is broken, damaged, lost, bullied, unjustified and the fake Romy is just trying to be invisible. On the contrary, the people of her town believe that she is an attention seeker since she is the “talk of the town”. She just wants to leave. With her mum moving in with another person after the divorce of her parents, things are difficult with her even though she doesn’t admit it. She works on the edge of the town where the only people coming in are truck drivers, travellers from far away - which is how she wants it. Soon she seems to be getting close with one of her colleagues to make her forget what was done to her.This is an excellent read to express the aftermath of rape and what a victim really feels like: isolated, tortured long after their suffering. This books tells us that rape victims may never feel one with the society they live in ever again; isolation slowly kills then as their own thoughts overtake them. Romy is a survivor but not everyone is that fortunate, or perhaps it’s worse to live after being a victim.This book is related to the tag #Tothegirls2k16 which is a supportive hash tag creating to give a tribute to all the girls especially the ones who suffered.Rating: 4.2/5• Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!