Skirmishes between classical music lovers over a yearned-for new London concert hall, intended to welcome conductor Simon Rattle back to our shores, have grown alarmingly ferocious this year. Should it be a sleek, City-funded adjunct to the Barbican or a new Queen’s Hall, perched dramatically on the edge of the Thames? Accusations of empire-building or, even worse, of a failure to appreciate acoustic science have been traded with increasing passion.Suddenly, it all looks like wasted energy. The £5.5m promised by George Osborne vanished, it has just been confirmed, when the former chancellor’s grip was wrenched off the exchequer in May. And, as Walsall’s New Art Gallery and Inverleith House in Edinburgh have recently joined those museums and libraries also fighting for survival in a tough funding environment, it is harder than ever to make a case for funding another place in which to listen to classical music in London.The only hope for those who believe, as Rattle indicated, that the capital suffers from the lack of a suitable, state of the art venue is that one or more rich philanthropists will now step forward.Government pulls its funding for London concert hall But Britain does not have a big habit of this sort of giving. The creative sector’s reliance on Arts Council grants and local authority funding has let the best-heeled fans of ballet, art and music enjoy these pleasures with a lot less tugging on their silky sleeves than they would have felt in America, where a surname chiselled on the wall of the new wing of an art gallery offers an essential bit of social cachet.Will we ever source a glittering new stream of arts donors to tap? Understandably, health, education and now climate change tend to jump to the head of the queue for help. And anyway, arts institutions have to tread carefully. How many other rich backers would be happy to fund an opera with the kind of alarming rape scene that upset some Guillaume Tell audiences at the Royal Opera House in June 2015? Corporate sponsors often have broader shoulders and are less thin on the ground, but rarely come problem-free. Last year, the Royal Festival Hall shook off the perceived dirt of oil company money when it dropped Shell as backer of its international piano series.It is clearly also tricky for a highbrow art form to present itself as relevant to everyone when it has to court and then accept money from special-interest groups. This is a real obstacle, despite the fact donations from the wealthy, like the original sugar baron Tate, can end up genuinely providing art for the masses.There was a philanthropic tradition in the arts in the past, of course. Among the old greats is the north-east’s William Armstrong, the engineer who lived through most of the 19th century and set up the Great North Museum. A little after him came the Welsh Davies sisters, Gwendoline and Margaret, who founded one of the country’s first music festivals, Gregynog.New London concert hall ‘too expensive and in wrong place’ In the 1990s, Dame Vivien Duffield, who inherited £45m from her father, property developer Charles Clore, famously raised half the funds for the £214m rebuilding of the Royal Opera House. The Paul Hamlyn Foundation funds youth workshops at the National Theatre, while the dealer Anthony d’Offay offered 725 artworks at a knock-down price to the national galleries of Scotland and the Tate.Last month, a new award for emerging philanthropists, the Achates prize, attempted to give the charitable sector a large nudge in the right direction. Yet even if a new generation of individual philanthropists does come forward, is a London concert hall a worthy project? Some musicians, such as cellist and head of the Birmingham Conservatoire, Julian Lloyd Webber, argue that the current Royal Festival Hall can work well, while others, such as the Observer’s Fiona Maddocks, sing the praises of rival venues in Birmingham, Newcastle and Manchester.There is some evidence that even Rattle does not care that much. His decision to leave the renowned Berlin Philharmonic to take up the baton at the London Symphony Orchestra next year, the great man has now clarified, was never dependent on the capital scrambling to build him a better venue.Some hope, however, dawns on the horizon. With the Tate’s Nicholas Serota soon to place his calm, controlling hand on the Arts Council’s tiller, London stands a fair chance of holding up its cultural head in Europe. The right course to steer, surely, is one that promotes the quality of British culture and makes sponsorship seem a true privilege.