A stage play based on the behind-the-scenes talks in Norway that led to the 1993 peace deal between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organisation is heading to the UK. JT Rogers’ Oslo, described as an “intellectual thriller”, is about to open on Broadway after a sell-out run last year at New York’s Lincoln Center.The National Theatre will on Thursday announce that it is also coming to London for a production at its Lyttelton Theatre in September, before it transfers to the West End.Its subject-matter, the secret talks that took place ahead of the 1993 Oslo Accords, may not seem the most obvious material for a stage thriller. But its director, Bartlett Sher, believes UK audiences will find it “surprisingly gripping … It is basically a history play. It is covering a lot of people and events.”The play tells the story of a young couple, diplomat Mona Juul and her husband, Terje Rød-Larsen, who orchestrated meetings that ultimately resulted in the famous public handshake between Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin at the White House in front of a smiling Bill Clinton.Sher said he had been wanting to address the Palestine and Israel conflict for a long time, “but it was always very hard to find a way in without it becoming blood boiling to one side or another”.In New York, Sher became friends with Juul and Rød-Larsen and, four years ago, he introduced them to the playwright Rogers. So began the project. The couple are a central part of the play and have been involved, but Sher stressed that it was a “fictionalised true story”.He added: “In the making of the piece, because we know them and because they were very accessible to us, to maintain some objectivity, we didn’t actually let them see the script, or review it or give notes. It has been really fun to work on and we had far more material than we could ever put in to one play. The first workshops were four and half hours of material.”Rød-Larsen has seen the play and approves, said Sher, but Juul, currently Norway’s ambassador to the UK, has yet to to see it because the Brexit vote made things busy for her last year.Oslo attracted strong reviews in New York, with Ben Brantley of the New York Times called it “a vivid, thoughtful and astonishingly lucid account of a byzantine chapter in international politics.” Variety’s critic called it “unequivocally fascinating” and “compulsively watchable”.The National Theatre’s director, Rufus Norris, said he was privileged to be presenting “JT Rogers’ extraordinary play, told with passion and humour, about a significant period in our recent political history”.The London version will have a largely British cast of 17 and will stay at the NT for three weeks before transferring to the West End’s Harold Pinter theatre from 30 September to 30 December.• This article was amended on 6 April 2017 to correct the closing date of the play.