I met my wife in Melbourne. I said: “What are you doing here?”Simon Munnery on Mark Lamarr’s masterclass in handling hecklers That was a joke Malcolm Hardee used to tell, and now I tell it sometimes. Partly in memory of him, and partly because it actually happened to me. I did meet my wife in Melbourne, and I did ask her, as you do, what she did. And – get this – she was working as a waitress in a cocktail bar. But that wasn’t our first conversation. She had heckled me and I married her as a kind of put-down. It hasn’t worked: she has proliferated, dropped sprogs – now they all heckle me.It was Melbourne international comedy festival, the joyous antipodean antidote to Edinburgh. I’d done my main show – it went well, thanks for asking – and I was in the dressing room prior to a short slot on a late-night show. I was cocky, riding for a fall, had had a couple of drinks, felt invincible. “How long have you been doing it?” I remember asking other acts, and feeling superior for my 15 years. It’s 30 now. I was Alan Parker, Urban Warrior, a character I used to do – an angry young man/punk-rock singer without a band/pub philosopher – wearing a worn-out Clash T-shirt and paramilitary trousers. I went on, did one joke from my set, and said: “Right, Melbourne, got any issues?” I wanted to improvise. I married her as a kind of put-down. It hasn't worked: she has proliferated, dropped sprogs - now they all heckle me “Repetitious comedians” came the reply from the back of the room, and I lost my temper. It seemed such an unfair heckle. From then on it was a weird gig. I couldn’t do the character effectively any more; all my well-honed material turned to dust in my pockets. Nothing worked, but I kept going. I did this one joke that was always a gamble. I say to the audience: “Anyone here ever felt totally alone?” hoping just one person says “Yes!” so I could then say: “Oh. Just you then.”The “ever felt totally alone?” got a massive laugh – because I was clearly dying on my arse. Then, perfectly, one person said “Yes!” and I followed up with: “Oh, just you then.” Nothing. I tried to explain to the audience that what they’d just heard had been funny, but that never works. You can’t convince a crowd that something they hadn’t laughed at was funny in retrospect, even using algebra.At some point, I made an executive decision to stop doing the Alan character and try something else. I’d been working on a new act called the League Against Tedium, a strange Mr Loser type who had reinvented himself as a god who had read too much Nietzsche. I tried that, pre-warning the crowd that I would ideally be wearing different clothes – as if that made a difference. It didn’t. There were laughs, but not from my material. Edinburgh festival 2016: the shows we recommend I asked someone in the front row what I was doing wrong. “You’re too polite, mate,” he said. “Oh, I’m sorry,” I replied, and that got a laugh. But I was grasping at nonexistent straws. I did a fragment of another act about the Act of Supremacy, Jesus and the Church of England. Epic fail.And then came this heckle, clear as a bell: “Don’t die!” It was more of an order than a plea, as I remember. The riposte that sprang to my mind immediately was “Where were you at the crucifixion?” because I’d been talking about Jesus and that might have been a good time to shout such a thing. But such was the discombobulated mood I was in that I changed it to “Where were you at Calvary?” which cuts out 80% of the audience. Or it might have been Calgary, which is in Canada … Either way, few laughs. The gig ended and I backed off the stage, a mess.Later in the bar I was drowning my sorrows when someone I vaguely knew came up. “You gotta meet my friend,” she said. “No thanks. I’ve just had a weird gig.” Ten minutes later she came back: “You gotta meet my friend.” “What are you, her agent? No thanks.” The third time, she explained that her friend had heckled me. “Don’t die!” I had to meet her. So I did. And, eventually, we got married and lived ever after.Simon Munnery: Standing Still is at the Stand, Edinburgh, 16-29 August.