10 of the best music festivals in Europe Unless you’re from the new breed of permanently hydrated festival-goer that brings chia seeds to snack on at their 9am terrarium-making workshop, chances are you’ll feel a bit fragile at some point. Hardened festivallers will know the feeling: the kind of fragile where even putting on wellies to queue for breakfast can reduce you to tears. Perhaps mindful of such inevitability, festivals are turning to ambient music this summer to try to help soothe weary souls and make a sudden squall of hail seem like a friendly exfoliation from the man upstairs.Ambient is, as its rather vague name suggests, a broad, mutable musical style, but is generally based on electronics that waft, often beatlessly, around beanbag-cuddling listeners, and was pioneered by artists like Brian Eno, Boards of Canada and Aphex Twin (when he’s not trying to soundtrack a rage blackout). It’s an ideal way to segue from 4am into the oblivion of sleep.In the 90s, the genre rose to popularity as a mainstay of Ibiza’s beach bars and superclub chillout areas. Come 2017, however, with deep house and techno dominating music festivals, alongside the rising wellness trend, a new generation are looking for after-after-party jams that pulsate and stimulate.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Midori Takada.Ambient classics like Midori Takada’s Through the Looking Glass are being reissued, hip labels such as Music from Memory and Lobster Sleep Sequence are now entirely devoted to the style, and there are numerous feted electronic producers like Vermont and Suzanne Kraft gaining traction with their amniotic tracks. Theirs is music that might initially sound like a playlist you’d play a nap-resistant toddler, but the more you listen, the more it unfolds. The quiet – and, whisper it, even mindful – moments it affords are what can bring your festival experience those eternally sought-after, non-specific “vibes”.Farr festival is a woodland dance event that’s been running since 2010 and is popular with dedicated ravers. This year it’s debuting its Campfire Headphase stage – named after an album by the aforementioned Boards of Canada – featuring live ambient sets and DJs, all of it hopefully insulated from the barrage of 4/4 beats going on elsewhere. Unlike your average dance festival, where ambient areas are used to corral drooling wastrels, this stage is very much part of the party. The best of the new ambient producers, Huerco S, will be playing his brilliantly scratchy lo-fi productions. Or, if ambient abroad appeals, he’s playing at Meakusma festival in Eupen, Belgium, and at France’s Les Siestes Electroniques festival in Toulouse and Paris – which is also zen for being free.Huerco S is ambient for the flat white generation; at Latitude however, there’s the Solas stage, full of the unfashionable end of the spectrum where chimes are winded and dreams are caught. The word “eclectronica” is used. And somewhere in the middle there is Bestival’s ambient forest, where DJs Chris Coco, Pete Gooding and Mixmaster Morris will be at the controls.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Having it Laraaji: see New York’s ambient trailblazer at Obonjan and Terraforma. Photograph: Liam RickettsBut it doesn’t matter if you’re a graphic designer or a reiki healer: ambient music can be a cosmic experience for any listener. Take it from Laraaji, who was discovered by Eno playing his autoharp on the streets of New York in the 1970s and who tapped into a “cosmic ambient sound ... like infinite layers of brass and woodwind” during a meditation. He has tried to replicate the eternal sound he heard ever since. “Ambient music offers a portable escape hatch for the listener,” he says. “In the last few months, the human heart might have had difficulty escaping some of the dramatic scenarios that are taking place. Ambient can provide a vertical escape, even if it’s temporary, without feeling like you’re abandoning your responsibilities as a planetary being.”Laraaji is bringing his strings, bells and drones to a couple of festivals that are massively embracing ambient: Obonjan and Terraforma. The former features a 70-day program of music, talks and yoga classes on a Croatian island that you can dip in and out of for as long as you like, also starring the likes of gong-wielding sound therapist Lani Rocillo. Terraforma, in the grounds of a Milanese mansion, promises to be genuinely transcendent with German genre legend Gas and synth pioneer Suzanne Ciani.The cynical reason for this ambient boom is that it’s an easily ignorable backdrop for the new kind of festival-goer who prefers showing off on Instagram to enjoying the music. But despite the protestations of bores, festivals aren’t just about the tunes – they’re an evocative mix of sounds, sex and cut grass, which ambient enhances in a way that straightforward bands often disrupt. In the sleevenotes for Eno’s ambient album Music for Airports, he describes wanting to make “an atmosphere … a tint”; ambient music gives festivals an extra psychedelic atmosphere, another tint. Bring an extra air bed, settle in, and chart a course far above the taco trucks. Farr, Hertfordshire, 13-15 July; Meakusma, Eupen, Belgium, 8-10 September; Les Siestes Electroniques, Toulouse, 29 June-2 July / Paris, 8-9 July; Latitude, Suffolk, 13-16 July;  Bestival, Dorset, 7-10 September; Obonjan, Croatia, 23 June-3 September; Terraforma, Milan, 23-25 June