Glen Rowe, Muse tour manager and founder, Cato MusicMusic Skills award winnerMake yourself indispensableWorking in live music is not for the faint-hearted; it’s tough, tiring and competitive. But we all have to start somewhere. No matter which job you’re given, go over and above what’s required of you. Make yourself indispensable. But how? It’s not exactly taught in schools and colleges. My advice would be to follow the three Cs: contacts, courses and commitment. First, network as much as you can and start as early as possible. The more contacts, the more valuable you are to an employer. Second, research job vacancies regularly to find out what skills employers are looking for. Take a course or teach yourself these skills (even via online tutorials) to ensure you have the extra edge over other job applicants. Finally, where appropriate, be the first to arrive and the last to leave. Whether you’re volunteering, interning or working, show your commitment.I’ve seen many Cato Academy students flourish after graduation. They put in the hours at festivals, help with the 2am load-ins at arenas and volunteer to get experience and contacts. It pays off; they make themselves indispensable to crew agencies, tour managers, artists and more. Being indispensable doesn’t just get you a job; it keeps you in one.Jo Davies, production coordinator, Wales Millennium CentreTheatre Skills award winner (with Martin Hunt, technical director)Get as much exposure as possibleMy top tip would be to get as much exposure to the industry in which you want to work as possible. I started out volunteering on am-dram pantomimes and the annual school musical, which fuelled my love of the theatre and led to my career as a stage manager. Also, try to meet as many people as possible connected to your industry of choice. Do your research. Contacts are so important and often it’s who you know rather than what you know that gets your foot in the door. There’s a perception that interns are an inferior part of the team, which isn’t the caseApril Skipp When we recruit apprentices, we look for a proven interest in theatre as this shows that the passion and willingness to learn is there.Peter Taylor, director, The Goldsmiths’ Centre Jewellery Skills award winnerDon’t allow your passion and enthusiasm to wane Starting a creative career or setting up a business takes talent, hard work and passion. That last one is key because if you don’t believe in your work, why should anyone else? One way to keep those flames of passion burning bright is to know your customers and get their feedback on your work. Seeing a satisfied client can rekindle your passion. It’s infectious.Imogen Gray, business information manager, and Dana Segal, development and events manager, Cockpit ArtsCraft Skills award winnersYou can always ask for helpOur tip would be to pick up the phone and ask for help or direction. Most people will be willing to lend a hand if you reach out to them in a personal and considered way.Top tips for early career artists If you’re looking for a job in a new industry, you probably won’t know how to navigate the sector. So it’s worth making a list of organisations you’re interested in and asking: where do they advertise their jobs? Do they offer placements, apprenticeships or internships? Gray: When I was 23 I was desperate to work at Tate, having interned there previously, so I called its HR department (I found the number online) and asked who it recruited its temporary staff through – and they told me. I quickly enrolled at the recruitment agency and was working at Tate less than a month later. Although it wasn’t a glamorous job (data input) it did have a direct impact on my next role, which was working at one of my favourite London galleries.Don’t be disheartened if a company doesn’t respond to your call or email; it might be a busy time of year, or it might not be recruiting at that time. Think about other ways to connect. Does it have a youth group? Does it host events throughout the year? Does it work with partner organisations that might interest you?April Skipp, marketing and development intern, Yorkshire DanceIntern of the Year award winnerBe a fearless internAs an intern, don’t be afraid to put forward new ideas. There’s a perception that interns are an inferior part of the team, which isn’t the case. Yorkshire Dance gave me the freedom and support to test out new ways of working from day one. So the next time you’re in an interview, at a staff meeting or even stood in the kitchen with some colleagues, run your idea past them. Gauge where it stands and discuss a simple action plan. How would your idea work? What impact or benefit would it have? Would you need a team to help move it forward or can you do this alone?Nicole Alison, creative apprentice assessor, Lewisham Southwark CollegeTraining provider of the year award winnerDon’t stop learningThere’s never been a moment in my career that I’ve felt as if I know everything, which is what makes it interesting. Even now I’m fine with saying there are many things I don’t know, but I keep questioning and exploring. Do this and you will continue to develop yourself and become more of an asset to your employer. You’ll also be able to take any new skills with you into your next role.Find out more about this year’s Creative & Cultural Skills Awards hereJoin our community of arts, culture and creative professionals by signing up free to the Guardian Culture Pros Network.