Snapshot: Mum on holiday in Blackpool, 1933This photograph, taken by my father, is of my mother, Hilda Ainsworth (as she then was), and a friend on his Triumph motorbike. It was taken in July 1933, Blackburn Wakes Week, in Blackpool. They are outside a boarding house and the three onlookers are all wearing hats. The gentleman has even added a bowler to his dark three-piece suit. Mum, aged 17, is still wearing ankle socks and has the Kodak Brownie camera case over her shoulder.These holidays were heavily chaperoned by the Ainsworth and Entwistle families.Edwin and William Entwistle both wanted to marry Mum and she chose William – they were married in 1939.I was born in 1941 and, sadly, both men were killed in 1942; Edwin, a gunner in the Royal Artillery, died in Benghazi and my father, William, in a car accident returning from the aircraft factory where he worked.I had no photographs of my father until after Mum died in 2003. The man she married in 1945 insisted that she threw away all her photographs of him. However, unbeknown to Mum, her sister Bertha rescued the collection from the dustbin and left them with my cousin John to be given to me on Mum’s death. It was only then that I discovered that William looked like our son, Duncan.Christine ArmstrongPlaylist: Unknown pleasures for my young sonAtmosphere by Joy Division “Walk in silence / Don’t walk away, in silence … Your confusion / My illusion”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Atmosphere by Joy Division.Our musical preferences are shaped by life’s many experiences. This was no different for my son, Joel, 25, whose eclectic musical tastes were sharpened by many, many hours of exposure to his dad’s music, as he was held hostage in his infant carrier in the front passenger seat of our estate car.This wasn’t always the case as from 1990 to 1995 the car cassette system was stuck semi-permanently on Postman Pat stories and repeat plays of Disney talking book tapes. As these tapes gradually self-destructed, however, the tables were turned and Dad took control of the airwaves once more. Out went the saccharine story and singalong tapes and in came Dad’s mixtapes from the post-punk indie scene. As they say, we never looked back!The playlist was wonderfully brooding and decadent and ranged from the Blockheads to Echo and the Bunnymen, via the Smiths and Stone Roses. But pride of place was always reserved for Joy Division (the original Northern Powerhouse). From the age of six, Joel happily sang along with Morrissey and McCulloch and our indie credentials were well and truly established.Or so I thought.On one particular drive, we had Joy Division on full volume with Peter Hook’s booming bass guitar turned all the way up to 11 as Joel and I joined in Ian Curtis and his haunting lyrics to the classic anthem, Atmosphere. The experience was moving. Towards the end of the song, however, Joel, after careful consideration, tendered the opinion that the music of Joy Division was “sad” to which Dad responded in his most John Peel manner, “Yes indeed, the music and sound of Joy Division does have a somewhat melancholy and taciturn feel about it.”Unfortunately, the true feelings of seven-year-old Joel were painfully clear when he added, “No, Dad, it’s just well-sad”!!!Stuart George BennettWe love to eat: Ricardo’s heavenly onion pakorasIngredientsOne large onion, sliced finely into rings Vegetable oil100g gram flour2 tablespoons frozen peas½ teaspoon medium hot curry powderFresh sage or ½ teaspoon dried160ml waterPinch of salt Slice the onions finely and pull the rings apart. Mix in a bowl with the gram flour and curry powder. Then either leave to sweat somewhere warm (the airing cupboard’s fine – but cover the bowl or your linen will smell like a takeaway) or mix with a little water. You are aiming for a thin, milky batter that barely seems to coat the onions. Trust it, it will. Finely chop a few sage leaves and stir in, then at the last moment add the frozen peas. Heat the vegetable oil – preferably in a deep fat fryer. Drop clusters of pakoras in, a few at a time, and watch like a hawk. They go from golden to black in the blink of an eye.Drain on kitchen towels and serve with veggie curry or something robust like good Lincolnshire sausages with a tomato marmalade. This quantity feeds four gluttons.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Felicity Cloake for the GuardianI was an only child of older parents and an orphan by my 20s. So my annual visit to my new family of hippy mates at the Big Green Gathering was a rare highlight. Food became part of the bonding process with my surrogate family and these delicious pakoras sum up that time for me. Neither English nor Asian, they fuse cultures the way the festival fused people back in the day.The Big Green was always a hotbed of new ideas – championing new “fads” such as recycling and upcycling decades before the mainstream caught on. Chips weren’t available there, but these incredibly tasty – addictive – little jewels of crunchy heaven were. Healthier and far more flavourful, I always serve them instead of chips whenever I get the chance.Ricardo, a former circus-ringmaster turned vegetarian cook, first showed me how to make them. He had a flair for the dramatic and when I innocently likened them to onion bhajis he had to lie down in a darkened room.If you can’t find fresh sage, use the dried version, but go easy.The smell of the cooking evokes for me the whole festival. There would come a point, usually on the second evening, when everything got a bit Brueghelesque, like the paintings only far more beautiful and even more chaotic. Then we’d come in from the dancing and music-making and, always motherly, Ricardo would pile his love offering of pakoras high on a steel dish and we’d scavenge and squabble over them like the young chicks we were.When I taste them again, all these years later, they carry with them an invisible payload of kinship and love.Fiona MaherWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We love to eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number