Before I did Pericles with the Royal Shakespeare Company in 2006, I knew the story vaguely, but it wasn’t high on my list of Shakespeares. That, of course, changed when I got a chance to look at it. Intellectually speaking, what was interesting in dealing with the text were the issues around the authorship. There is definitely a point at which the writing changes and suddenly it comes to life. I remember that being a little eureka moment in the process. It’s the same play and yet somehow completely different. I remember team members having a real problem with portraying ​starvation. It feels obscene to do this in make-believe Chaos and disorder in society are a constant. The battle for each of us is to steer a course through that in order to hold firm to our own values, and to defend those values and celebrate them no matter what. It’s easy to push that kind of credo into all sorts of spheres. In Pericles, we watch a man coming of age, having to lose everything, only for him to find that he is a good man, he did do some good in the world and he has received the greatest reward: to be reunited with those he loves.What was exciting for me was the way we staged it: doing it in promenade, transforming the Swan auditorium, in Stratford, and having the audience as an active part of this quest, this odyssey that Pericles goes on. The great joy and challenge of promenade is that it’s 360 degrees; you have to contend with all sorts. You have to bring the piece right up to the faces of the audience.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We didn’t try to hide who I was physically’ … Lucian Msamati as Pericles with Ony Uhiara as Marina. Photograph: Tristram KentonAn east African setting was very satisfying, and challenged a lot of notions of status and suffering. Pericles arrives in Tarsus with all of his wealth. Ostensibly, the idea in the modern context was a mightier foreign power arriving with aid and gifts to help its starving neighbours. I remember members of the team having a real problem with portraying starvation. It feels obscene in some ways to be doing this in make-believe, but the challenge for us was to find the truth within a context that is much closer to home. It is somebody who is on the street selling The Big Issue, for instance, or begging outside the local pub. What people go through in times of crisis is universal.Lucian Msamati: danger zone The challenge for me was how to portray a man going through various ages of his life. The first and most important thing was that we didn’t try to hide who I was physically. We didn’t try to amp it up or play it down. I am 5ft 5in and built like a rugby player; sometimes it’s about using what you have to your advantage. For instance in the games, the section in which Pericles battles for the hand of Thaisa with the various other suitors, we embraced the joyous absurdity of it while also being true to the fact that, yes, this man is exceptional at what he does. For the reunion of the family, we were shoulder to shoulder with the audience, seeing people in floods of tears. Those are the priceless moments when you know you have taken people on a journey with you.Lucian Msamati stars in Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom at the National Theatre, London, until 18 May