I’ll never forget my initial reaction to the news that Johnny Depp made some art with the tip of his bloody finger during his breakup with Amber Heard, which was: “OK.” “Sure.” “Fine.” “Makes sense.” It’s the sort of detail that would surprise you if your friend did it but Johnny Depp’s been famous for ever so of course he’s insane. If he hadn’t done something like this I’d be worried. Well that’s not true. I will never worry about Johnny Depp.Somewhere in those reactions, though, was a vague awareness that other visual artists (because let’s not forget that Depp paints) have worked with the medium of blood. “Use your blood to paint,” Yoko Ono wrote in her book Grapefruit in 1964. “Keep painting until you faint. Keep painting until you die.”The most high profile person to take this advice is likely YBAer Marc Quinn, whose Self (1991) was a bust of his own head made with frozen blood. There was a lot of that going around in the 1990s. Andres Serrano made a great deal of work with blood (his works Blood and Piss are both in the MoMA collection), while the performance artist Ron Athey was wrongly accused of exposing his audience to the risk of Aids when he hoisted over their heads paper towels freshly soaked in the blood of performer Divinity Fudge, at a show in Minneapolis in 1994. Senator Jesse Helms called for the withdrawal of public funds from Athey’s art, and that like it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andres Serrano’s Blood on the Flag. Photograph: andres serrano/SerranoIt’s always fun to upset rightwing culture warriors but there are better works of art that involve blood less directly. There’s Chris Burden’s Shoot (1971) in which he allowed himself to be shot in the arm with a rifle, or Ana Mendieta’s performances like Untitled (Death of a Chicken) (1972), in which she allowed blood from a decapitated chicken to splatter her naked body. Carolee Schneemann has done menstrual blottings but these could be read as an extension of the work Interior Scroll, a poem extracted from her vagina during a landmark 1975 performance.The fact is not many artists use blood in their work. Because a gimmick is always a crutch; not only should you not make a work that can’t stand on its own two feet without one, but any gimmicky quality in a work strikes a knowledgeable viewer as a sign of insecurity, like the artist doesn’t know what he’s doing and hopes he can use some touchstone or visceral reaction to bridge the gap. Also: artists need to eat and nobody wants to own something made from someone’s gross blood, you weirdo. A surprising number of outsider artists have made portraits of Donald Trump with their menstrual blood – and it seems as though there’s a newspaper story about each one of them. My reaction is in line with my attitudes to sanguine work by more famous artists. Everything makes sense, all the boxes are checked: Trump is about sex and violence (and talked about “blood coming out of her whatever”), so here you are, blood from a vagina. Beep boop, input output. Ironically enough, it’s a little too tidy. It’s a closed system that doesn’t much speak to anything else in art history.Perhaps thankfully, no one is ever likely to see the work Depp made with his blood – especially now his divorce from Heard has been settled. Perhaps he was trying to demonstrate that, just as he turned a movie about a Disneyland ride into a trilogy, he could turn one of the dodgier artistic tropes of our time into something deeper. Though obviously, like Yoko Ono, I’m just kidding. Don’t make art with blood. Thank you.