Much like Donald Trump’s candidacy for president, preparations for his inauguration on 20 January have been unorthodox. One main sticking point, making headlines in the music industry and beyond, is which artists Trump and his team can convince to play for the polarizing incoming president. Playing the inauguration, once a hallowed gig, has become a poisoned chalice, according to some.The Beach Boys consider playing at Trump inauguration “It should come as no surprise that Trump’s team is struggling to find big-name entertainers for the inauguration,” notes the industry observer and freelance music journalist Steven J Horowitz. “If you look at the pre-election support from artists for the presidential nominees, Hillary Clinton was the overwhelming favorite.”Top performers such as Katy Perry and Beyoncé came out in support of Clinton, with Trump struggling to gain backing from mainstream acts. His divisive rhetoric and statements made it difficult for artists to side with him and show support, even in traditionally Republican-siding genres like country, for fear of turning off fans. Beyond the tongue-in-cheek offer from Trump’s bete noire Alec Baldwin, who suggested he could sing AC/DC’s Highway to Hell, the president-elect has struggled to secure concrete offers.According to a recent report, not a single local Washington DC marching band has applied to perform during Trump’s swearing-in, making it the first time in decades regional band acts are not going to be involved in the festivities. For other artists, engaging in any form of politics is anathema, let alone when the politician you’d be backing is arguably the most controversial of the last 50 years in US politics.“I think musicians are keenly aware of the dangers of isolating their fan bases by admitting they’re in favor of one political party over another,” notes Horowitz. “Artists who are traditionally non-political, like Bruno Mars and Justin Timberlake, risk making grand statements when they accept a gig like the Trump inauguration.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lip-sync battle: Barack Obama, right, as Beyoncé sings the national anthem at the ceremonial swearing-in Photograph: Carolyn Kaster/APHoward Bragman, chairman of Fifteen Minutes Public Relations, echoes that sentiment. While he hasn’t been involved in inauguration planning, Bragman has advised a laundry list of high-profile celebrity clients over the years and knows the insight he’d offer if they were asked to perform. “In the past, one could say: ‘He’s the president,’” suggests Bragman. “But I’d tell a client who was asked that this one is different. In our politically charged world, performing for Trump is a political statement, and if one chooses to perform they should go in with their eyes wide open.”At press time, the Trump team had managed to secure only one contemporary name: Jackie Evancho (although the Beach Boys haven’t turned down the offer they received yet). The 16-year-old singer, who rose to fame on America’s Got Talent and has since launched a successful career, is slated to sing the national anthem. It was recently reported that the Mormon Tabernacle Choir was set to perform alongside the Marine Corps band, both positioned on the outdoor stand during Trump’s swearing-in, while the Rockettes will also perform.'Country music has become apolitical': why have acts kept quiet on the election? The Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli was also approached by the Trump camp, but he declined the offer after a viral social media campaign dubbed #BoycottBocelli, in which his fans made their displeasure known. Meanwhile, curiously absent from discussions, at least so far, is the small crowd of artists who have publicly voiced their support of Trump, from the Vegas showman Wayne Newton to the country crooner Loretta Lynn and the rocker Ted Nugent.The speculation and caution over taking the gig is in stark contrast to inaugurations past, none of which have met with such scrutiny. At Obama’s inauguration in 2013, the biggest controversy came when Beyoncé allegedly lip-synced the Star-Spangled Banner. Meanwhile, at Obama’s 2009 proceedings, performers included Aretha Franklin and Yo-Yo Ma, who provided a shareable moment rather than anything approaching controversy.When George W Bush took office in 2001, he opted for a lineup of military choirs while also holding a full-blown concert boasting top pop acts of the day, such as Ricky Martin and Jessica Simpson. Past inaugural performers have included the likes of Mickey Rooney, on hand during Franklin D Roosevelt’s swearing-in in 1941, and Frank Sinatra, who handled the entertainment for John F Kennedy’s 1961 festivities. Unlike any other year, however, the overarching theme of performing at Trump’s swearing-in is that of risk. “An artist would be risking too much,” notes Horowitz. “Their career, their fan base, their relationships in the music industry. As one of the most divisive president-elects in history, Trump shouldn’t be surprised that he’s facing a lack of support.”Musicians who have turned Trump down:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elton John Photograph: Atlantico/REX/ShutterstockElton John John was the subject of initial speculation about Trump’s inaugural after Anthony Scaramucci, vice-chairman of the inauguration committee, floated his name. John’s camp retaliated with the simple statement: “Elton will not be performing at a Trump inauguration.”Garth Brooks The country singer was also approached by the Trump camp and initially seemed open to the possibility in the press. However, he ultimately declined the offer. David FosterThe Canadian mega-producer, who has worked with everyone from Alice Cooper to Mary J Blige, was rumored to have also been approached by the Trump camp to have a hand in planning the proceedings. Foster confirmed he was indeed asked, but he later nixed the idea, saying on Instagram that he “politely and respectfully declined”.Gene SimmonsThe Kiss frontman has praised Trump in the past (calling him “the truest political animal”), but later declined due to scheduling conflicts.