We’re in the middle of the interview when a stranger approaches Johnny Harris. Sorry to interrupt, he says, it’s just that he has got a script he wants Harris to read. It’s mad seeing him here, he says, because he wrote it with him in mind. Harris nods, says: “Oh, lovely, nice one.” He promises he will talk to him about it later. He’s just doing this at the moment.We’re in the bar of a Soho theatre, the kind of place a working actor will get recognised. Elsewhere, it depends what Harris has been in lately. When he was on TV playing the monstrous and abusive father Mick in Shane Meadows’ This Is England, it happened a lot. Still, the nature of the role gave people pause. “There’s something to be said for playing a madman, because when people come up, they want to talk about the work.” He gently rolls his eyes. “I don’t get banter.”Interviews with Harris tend to discuss just how different he seems from the brooding tinderboxes of films such as action thriller Welcome to the Punch or TV sci-fi The Fades. It’s true – the gulf can feel ridiculous. With a dense beard and open bearing, he is endlessly warm and talkative, a man who will sometimes express surprise by saying “flipping hell”. But on screen, his signature as one of Britain’s best character actors is menace, a violent simmer. You see a trace of it in his new film, the stripped-down boxing movie Jawbone. Aside from starring in it, Harris wrote the script, the story of an alcoholic ex-contender staging a comeback.The project began in 2012. He had just appeared in lavish fantasy Snow White and the Huntsman, part of a crew of British actors including Ray Winstone, Ian McShane and the late Bob Hoskins, all cast as dwarves. “I came out with a couple of grand in the bank. First time I’d ever been in the black.” He bought a laptop, sketched out an opening scene of a ruined fighter breaking into his old gym, based on the fabled Fitzroy Lodge in Lambeth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘If you’re a working-class white actor, a lot of people only want you for “racist, misogynist meathead” … Harris. Photograph: Pal Hansen for the ObserverHarris used to box himself, a teenage champion at the place he calls the Lodge. Later, he too succumbed to alcohol. But the film, he says, is personal more than autobiographical. “It was always going to be about boxing and addiction, but it wasn’t about me. It sounds big-headed” – Harris often worries about this – “ but I just wanted to make a really good British boxing movie. And a working-class film with poetry to it.”He grew up in Kean House, a Kennington council block, the flat filled with an extended family of grandparents and uncles. “For so long, black actors in Britain haven’t had the chances they should. But also if you’re a working-class white actor, a lot of people only want you for ‘racist, misogynist meathead’. So I wanted to write something about the working-class men I knew from Fitzroy Lodge, who were the most inclusive, benevolent people I ever met.”The real Lodge sits under the railway between Vauxhall and Waterloo. The trains make the place rumble. Instead, though, Jawbone’s boxing scenes were shot in Stoke, in the abandoned Spode ceramics factory. During filming last year, I visited the set. In a corner of the vast empty space, a likeness of the gym had been recreated. The roof leaked into unattended cups of tea, the mood can-do on a low budget. In aged training gear, Harris did knee-lifts in the ring between takes, the scene a long session of sparring. Ray Winstone looked on from the corner as the gym’s taciturn elder statesman, his assistant played by Michael Smiley. Cast as an all-powerful promoter, Ian McShane had already filmed his scenes and returned to LA (one fan who saw him in town was so awed she just wordlessly patted his hair). Now, Paul Weller also stood out of shot in an expensive-looking overcoat. Introduced to Harris by a mutual friend, he had embraced the script and was writing the score. Another collaborator was Northern Ireland’s former world champion Barry McGuigan, who helped train Harris physically. For all his ring experience, the actor is now 43. In their first session, he cheerfully admits he threw up. In Stoke, he moved flat-footed around the ring, at this point in the story needing to seem more out of shape than he actually was.Harris left school at 13, alienated and refusing to go to lessons. He had been boxing since nine. He felt safe at the Lodge with legendary trainer Mick Carney. “Mick was a quiet man, but he wouldn’t tolerate bullying, racism, any threat to us kids.” Realising he couldn’t be persuaded back into education, Carney found him an apprenticeship as a locksmith. Harris was a good enough fighter to become a national junior champion. There was talk of turning pro. “But I was getting political by then.” Changing locks, he saw wealth in London he had never known existed. It made him queasy. “And more importantly, I fell in love.” He was 17, he met a French girl and they left for Paris. It didn’t last, but he was done with boxing anyway. Returning to Britain, he worked on building sites then found acting, inspired by Nil by Mouth, the brutal modern classic in which Winstone was directed by Gary Oldman.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Jawbone trailer: exclusive first look at Ray Winstone boxing movie – videoHe did Pinter and Terence Rattigan in the wilds of fringe theatre, took TV jobs, a small role in the well-received Gangster Number One. But disquiet nagged at him. It always had. Boxing helped. “There’s a serenity in the ring. You’re not in the before or after, you’re truly present.” He got the same feeling, he says, later in life. “as soon as I picked up a drink”.Harris is teetotal now. “There’s a saying about drinking, that it gives you wings and takes away the sky. That was how it was for me.” He had his first pint at 16. By the time he started acting, it was a problem. Alcohol is where Jawbone and real life overlap, the turmoil on screen a trace of the man he was then, raw and raging. “I remember walking past happy families in restaurants, thinking why can’t I find what they’ve got? Until you say: ‘Well, I don’t fucking want it anyway. Fuck ‘em.’” For a dark second, his eyes turn over like one of his characters. “And in no time you’re cut off from the world.” Sometimes he slept rough with a bottle near Lambeth Bridge, across the Thames from Parliament.What was it that tormented him? “I just never felt at ease in my skin.” He shakes his head and grins a sheepish grin. “My sister, she’s always been contented, hardworking, loving. I felt like I wasn’t born on this planet.”Sobriety was painful to achieve, but he made it. Professionally, a breakthrough came with a horribly real performance in the 2006 thriller London to Brighton. Since then, his reputation as an actor has only grown. (This is England also brought him a death threat: “Shane called me and said ‘You made it baby!’”) He would have made more money had he appeared in some of the conveyor-belt British gangster movies he always gets offered. But those films are not his thing.Before he started training for Jawbone, Harris spoke with Daniel Day-Lewis, who worked with McGuigan at Fitzroy Lodge, preparing for the 1997 Irish drama The Boxer. Day-Lewis gave him notes on his script, “the best I’ve ever had”. Then he told him he envied him. “He said: ‘Knowing Barry is like finding a tenner in the gutter when you’re skint.’”In Stoke, multiple takes got the sparring scene finished. Afterwards, Weller quietly sipped tea. Winstone worked the pads with a group of young boxers acting as extras. Smiley joined another circle of visitors, mimicking their London accents. As he walked away, an older woman peered after him. “Cheeky sod,” she said. Harris played host, beaming and gabbing. But when the next scene was ready, his face fell into concentration.Jawbone’s exteriors were shot in the same stretch of London Harris still lives in. His family remain nearby, his mother 10 minutes from his flat. “There were times I wanted to put a bomb under where I lived. Other times I could cry with love for it. But I want the film to celebrate people I’ve known there. Humble people whose actions mean something. People who stick the kettle on. People who turn up.”I glance back after we say goodbye. Harris is talking to the stranger with the script.Jawbone is released on 12 May. A live satellite Q&A takes place in cinemas 8 May