This week we want to compile a playlist from your nominations on the theme of climate change.Sheila Deane, who comments on the Guardian as thoughtballoons, will select from your recommendations and had this to say about widening the scope: You could include songs about any extreme or changeable weather, or the impact of weather on sea levels, wildlife or humans. Also songs from before present scientific thinking that now might seem prophetic, or about historical environmental catastrophes that may or may not be linked to humans. For instance, songs about flooding, such as Led Zeppelin’s When the Levee Breaks.Nominate and tell us why in the comments. You can find a list of all songs previously picked and so ineligible (including that Led Zeppelin song) here.You have until 11pm on Monday 25 April to post your nomination and make your justification in the comments.If you would like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions – and potentially blog about the process/selection for the Guardian – please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com, or make yourself known in the comments.Here’s a reminder of the guidelines for RR:Tell us why it’s a worthy contender.Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song’s words.Provide a link to the song. We prefer Muzu or YouTube, but Spotify or Soundcloud are fine.Listen to others people’s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.If you have a good theme, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded” (picked for a previous playlist so ineligible), “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog. We’d like to learn a bit more about you and what you love. Each week, alongside RR, we’ll be asking you to tell us more about the songs you’ve nominated through our GuardianWitness page. We want to hear the stories, see the photos – of gigs, of moments, of your record sleeves – that you associate with the songs you have nominated. You can also share your theme ideas.