Vicky Featherstone is asking big questions. “Do we know how to write and watch plays that have complex, flawed female characters? Is there something in our cultural DNA that makes us respond differently when a play has a central male character?”You would think that, as artistic director of the Royal Court, Featherstone would know the answers to such queries. After all, she has just announced a dramatic year in which women are slightly in the majority among the writers. At the end of this month, Caryl Churchill’s Escaped Alone puts four women in their 60s and 70s on stage, thus striking a double blow for neglected subject areas. It follows Penelope Skinner’s Linda, another play about a member of a normally invisible tribe – a middle-aged woman facing redundancy.It’s not as if women are absent from the theatregoers’ gaze. Yet the questions Featherstone is asking do strike a chord. There is a general feeling among female playwrights that their gender means their work is viewed differently – by audiences and, crucially, by critics. Sometimes, they feel that altered gaze costs them a star in the ratings; on other occasions, the bias is more subtle – perhaps just a mention of the author’s gender or age in a review. But whatever its manifestation, there is a sense that the playing field is not level.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration by Sébastien Thibault.Lucy Kirkwood, who won acclaim for Chimerica, believes that critics are reasonably impartial about gender. “But,” she adds, “something troubles me about how often I am asked by male journalists if people mix me up a lot with Lucy Prebble. Apparently, multiple Davids and Simons are very easy to distinguish, but two Lucys blur into one.”Featherstone has in the past suggested that critics are tougher on plays by and about women than about men, though she is now anxious to include all audiences in her point. “I think we all, and that includes the critics, need to test our preconceptions more. What sort of protagonists are women able to be in plays in order for them to be successful? I don’t think they are able to behave in quite the same way as male protagonists are. I think we ask different questions of them. It’s to do with what we are used to. Which kind of characters have the authority within a narrative to take us into a flawed, incomplete, tragic, hubristic world? It feels to me that plays where the female protagonist is a victim of a family situation, or of society, are more easily accepted than characters that aren’t necessarily victims but make bad choices – which every single one of our tragic heroes has always done. These men don’t start off as victims – they make bad choices.”Playwright Duncan Macmillan has seen a subtle note of difference in the reaction to Denise Gough’s career-defining performance as his difficult, dominant heroine in People, Places & Things, which was a great hit at the National Theatre and is now transferring to the West End. It centres on Emma, a recovering addict, who is sceptical of the consolations of rehab, simultaneously frightened and furious. 'What sort of protagonists are women able to be in plays, in order for them to be successful?' “What has been interesting to me,” he says, “is the way the character’s gender is very visible somehow, whereas if it was a male character I don’t think we would think twice. Even though a lot of the response to that has been very positive, it still feels as if it’s worth mentioning. That surely reflects that we have certain biases and a certain type of theatre culture that notices when a woman is talking on stage about something other than men.”The problem with this discussion is that no one wants to look as if they are complaining simply because someone didn’t like their play. Zinnie Harris had a rough ride with some critics for How to Hold Your Breath, a play in which the central character, played by Maxine Peake, was an Everywoman rather than an Everyman. The work was about migration and the humanitarian cost of the refugee crisis, yet it was that character that attracted opprobrium.“Of course they should be allowed to say the play isn’t any good,” Harris says, “provided they are also saying the same thing about a play of similar quality by a male peer with a male protagonist.”There’s the rub. Featherstone, who directed the play, was surprised by the reaction. “It is irrelevant whether people liked the play. What worried me was that Zinnie did something different with the main character and took her on an epic, political journey. It would normally have been a man. And I felt that the flaws of that character, and her journey, weren’t given a chance. If that play had a male central character, would people have liked it more? I don’t know the answer to that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Featherstone with Zinnie Harris (left), who wrote How to Hold Your Breath, a response to the refugee crisis. ‘What worries me is that the flaws of the main character weren’t given a chance,’ Featherstone says. Photograph: David M. Benett/Getty ImagesThis bias against women in theatre is both unconscious and historical. The ancient Greeks may have loved a vengeful, sorrowful, complicated heroine, but there is a long gap until the multifaceted, strong-willed heroines of Ibsen. “One thing Nicholas Hytner said to me years ago was that we expect on big stages for the stories we are being told to be the big public stories and currently the people who have that voice are men,” says Featherstone.This sense of authority being a masculine quality is reinforced by the weight of the theatrical canon stretching from Shakespeare to Arthur Miller, from kings and princes, to the sad, seedy tragedy of Willy Loman. Constantly watching men centre stage has a reinforcing quality on all of us; it is what we expect to see and what we accept.“You have to ask yourself how you receive those narratives,” says Featherstone. “Do I find the Willy Loman character easier to watch than Linda; do I allow a man this type of slightly fallen, hubristic behaviour more than I do a woman?”Director Katie Mitchell is tackling the problem head on. With a group of close collaborators, she has just created Ophelias Zimmer, which premiered last month at the Schaubühne in Berlin and is due to open at the Royal Court in May. It is what she describes as a “radical, extreme work” that looks at Ophelia’s existence outside the confines of Hamlet. “It is a pretty empty life,” she says. “And by presenting it in all its dull bleakness we invite a conversation about whether when we do these old plays we should present the gender politics, because when we drag the heroic lead character through time and present him today, he carries a lot of negative freight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Noma Dumezweni in Linda, by Penelope Skinner. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian“I find Hamlet offensive from a gender point of view. There is something about the celebration of a depressed, violent man in the play which I am a bit weary of – and the way in which the idea of Hamlet, the idea of the depressed, heroic, violent man, is still very much in our culture.”The attitudes to women shown in Shakespeare – the Elizabethan codes and politics they exist within – matter because the playwright remains at the heart of English-speaking culture. “If you are a young woman introduced to Shakespeare in school, it is probably quite complex to have a relationship with characters like Ophelia or Lady Macbeth. Certainly, I have never felt comfortable in my field from that point of view. I remember once sitting on the tube talking to Sam Mendes about Shakespeare, and thinking, ‘Wow, what must it be like to be a male director looking at those plays?’”We talk about the fact that when Lyndsey Turner, a female director, did tackle Hamlet in the biggest cultural event last year, with Benedict Cumberbatch, hardly any critics discussed her radical treatment of Ophelia. “Why was that?” Mitchell asks. “That’s just not acceptable, because it implies a blind spot on the part of the critics. Isn’t that quite serious?”The problem stretches well beyond Shakespeare. Recently chosen set texts for GCSE and A-level are shockingly light on plays by women; even an acknowledged modern masterpiece such as Caryl Churchill’s Top Girls is not judged a suitable case for study, while Willy Russell’s Blood Brothers is.“I think this failure to narrate a female canon is most problematic,” says Kirkwood. “This is something we all have to take responsibility for – playwrights, theatres, arts journalists. I am acutely aware of walking in the footsteps of the women playwrights before me – Chloe Moss, Zinnie Harris, Debbie Tucker Green, Phyllis Nagy, April De Angelis, Rebecca Lenkiewicz, Bryony Lavery, Timberlake Wertenbaker, Winsome Pinnock, Ann Jellicoe, Pam Gems, Caryl Churchill, to name only a handful. Where is the big second production of Weldon Rising? Or The Knack? Or The Night Season? All of which are plays driven by fantastic female characters. Why does the culture incessantly trace family trees back to Pinter and Miller and Williams, as glorious as these writers are, while neglecting how the women I’ve listed shaped the culture? Why does it treat new plays by female playwrights as one-off events? It is passively violent.”There is a sense that work by women and featuring female protagonists is simultaneously disproportionately anticipated – and then equally disproportionately attacked. Take the case of Rebecca Lenkiewicz, whose Her Naked Skin, about two suffragettes, became in 2008 the first original play by a woman to be staged in the Olivier Theatre. When its reception was lukewarm, screeds of newsprint were devoted to its apparent failure.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Royal Court’s production of Escaped Alone by Caryl Churchill (centre) will put four women in their 60s and 70s onstage: (l-r) Deborah Findlay, Kika Markham, Linda Bassett and June Watson. Photograph: Johan Persson“But isn’t that the point of art?” asks Zinnie Harris, “that we are trying to do something? Of course you are entitled not to like it, but don’t condemn or destroy someone’s career because they have tried.” She argues that “there is something about a woman who raises her voice in public that is difficult for us as a society. The woman who takes herself seriously is quite a difficult proposition. It is all right if you write a farce about just how silly women are, but if you turn that into a play which has something serious to say, then you are trying to stand in a man’s shoes. There is nothing like filling an auditorium with a voice and I think, unconsciously, that is a difficult place, even for other women.”The challenge of a public act, rather than a private confession, perhaps explains why it is harder for women to be heard in theatre than in the novel. But there is another difficulty: a woman centre stage still has to represent far more than herself. “She is emblematic of womankind,” says Harris. “But when you put a man in the main role, he is emblematic of everyone.”This, says Duncan Macmillan, is reductive for everyone. “I think things are beginning to change, but it does seem that the default starting position for any character is white, male, middle aged, probably middle class and heterosexual, English speaking and able-bodied. Anything other than that feels like a visible decision. When she was at the RSC, Katie Mitchell used to be told to 'Shut up, Hedda' when she raised her concerns “If a very thin slice of experience is being represented, it is massively limiting. I think we go to the theatre to exercise our empathy and to think about being other people, and [live] other people’s experiences. I feel, as a dramatist, you look and respond to the world around you – and I am not entirely surrounded by white men, and frankly, white men have had enough stories about them. I am aware that, being born male, I have been born into an accidental kind of privilege that I want to use to the advantage of those who aren’t born into that privilege. That just seems like the moral thing to do.”Katie Mitchell shares this obligation to bring about change. She says that she used to be told to “shut up, Hedda” when she raised such concerns in her early days as an associate director at the RSC. “I’ve spent most of my career not ever wanting to talk about these things. I think that is the case for a lot of women, because it would be ill-advised to have these conversations. But now I am old and long in the tooth, and to some extent I remain a role model of sorts, so I feel I must be accountable politically concerning my gender.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I feel I must be accountable politically, concerning my gender’: Katie Mitchell, director ofOphelias Zimmer, which frees Ophelia from the constraints ofHamlet. Photograph: Christian JungeblodtFeatherstone doesn’t believe in quotas for promoting women writers: playwrights must write what they want, she believes, and excellence has to be the benchmark of commissioning. “But once we start to have the conversation, you then look at things through a different lens,” she says.There is something in the air when it comes to women asserting their cultural importance – whether it be the fact that the true hero of Star Wars: The Force Awakens is Rey, a woman who doesn’t need a man to protect her, or that Charles Saatchi for the first time has an exhibition that features only women artists. People protested on social media when the Abbey theatre in Dublin announced a season that featured only one play by a woman; they cheered when Jennifer Lawrence took up the baton for equal pay in Hollywood.But there is a long way to go. As Kirkwood wryly points out: “What’s fascinating is that in some ways we have travelled backwards. If you watch any of Mae West’s films now – mainstream and popular at the time of release and written by her – their nonconformity is shocking; it’s more subversive than anything in any movie made in the past 10 years. What do we mostly have today in mainstream film? The slotting of female characters into male paradigms (which mutates the problem rather than truly solving it) and the revelation that Moneypenny became Miss Moneypenny because she was a shit spy. So we have some way to go before we catch up with the 1920s!”• Escaped Alone opens at the Royal Court, London on 21 January; People, Places & Things opens at Wyndham’s Theatre, London on 15 March