Last week we asked you to pick your favourite horror films for Halloween. Many of you are looking forward to revisiting classics like The Shining, The Wicker Man and reliable slasher franchises Halloween and Scream. And while Brexit and Love Actually are both apparently enough to give some of you the shudders, here are some other suggestions you might wish to add to your list of essential horror viewing this year.The Cat and the Canary (1939)I always revisit this film starring Bob Hope and Paulette Goddard. I’ve adored it since I was a boy, when it would thrill me with its spooky old house atmosphere, chill me with sinister hands coming out of the wall and darkened secret passages. Hope and Goddard never fail to charm with their sparkling humour and wisecracks. I loved the possibility of a supernatural power lurking in the house as well as the all too human murder mystery at the heart of it all. Gore is not necessarily horrifying, usually it’s just unpleasant. Thrills and chills are far more effective as far as I’m concerned. This one is perfection from start to finish. Shout outs too for The Others (2001) and The Devil’s Backbone (2001). GeoffreyIt Follows (2014)David Robert Mitchell’s film about a girl pursued by a supernatural being after a sexual encounter is eerie, ambiguous, and otherworldly. Not to mention highly original. The camerawork, gorgeous cinematography, and a terrifying (and misleading) score combine to create an atmosphere of tension. Maika Monroe is fantastic as 19-year-old Jay. The film focuses on tension rather than jump scares, and it works. You’ll be terrified just walking down the street. Nica      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maika Monroe stars in It Follows (2014) Photograph: Allstar/ICON FILM DISTRIBUTIONThe Dead Zone (1983)I first saw the film when I was a teenager during the Cold War. The themes and fears running through the film were very relevant at the time and the idea of the wrong man given power to destroy the world felt a distinct possibility. However, it also suggests that we have the power to choose or even change our destiny if we’re heading in the wrong direction. Sadly, current world leaders have made this film quite relevant again. Lee      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christopher Walken in The Dead Zone (1983) Photograph: Courtesy Everett Collection/REXThe Innocents (1961)This black and white, British supernatural gothic horror is quite simply a ghost story. There’s no splatter, gore or torture scenes in sight- it’s a pure old school that uses the darkest horror trick of all - the human mind. The Innocents was my first experience of cinema, where one realises that audio is as important as the visual message. This is a masterclass in sound and vision. The absolute sudden appearance of the governesses ghost, as it brushes past Deborah Kerrs face, can’t be beaten. I dare you to watch with only a candle light for company. Colin      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deborah Kerr starring in the 1961 film The Innocents. Photograph: Allstar/20TH CENTURY FOX/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarKill List (2011)Ben Wheatley’s stripped-back, stylish psychological horror is unnerving throughout. The build up to the climactic point of the film is almost unwatchable and totally unexpected. The threat of violence is tangible in every frame. It’s ambiguous, unsettling and truly unpredictable. Kieran      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neil Maskell starring in British psychological horror Kill List from 2011. Photograph: Allstar/Optimum ReleasingYou’re Next (2011)I watched this on a first date with someone who claimed to be an avid horror fan. He ended up hiding behind his popcorn, and this really isn’t that scary! I always return to this film, although many might describe it as slightly pedestrian. It certainly isn’t thought of as a universal classic, but it has a cult following. The plot is all about a dysfunctional family at a a wedding anniversary getaway who are attacked by a group of assailants wearing various animal masks. Unoriginal maybe, but I like the tenseness of it. Sharni Vinson who plays lead character Erin is terrific. I gave my first date a second chance, and now I watch it with my husband every year. Gemma      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nicholas Tucci and Wendy Glenn in You’re Next from 2011. Photograph: Allstar/ICON FILM DISTRIBUTION/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarThe Changeling (1980)I was petrified with saucer-eyed stupefaction when I stumbled upon this movie on TV as a kid. Today I see the movie for what it is - a masterpiece of the haunted house genre. I could make my case by citing George C. Scott’s crucial anchoring performance as a widower in deep psychic pain. Or, I could cite the successive images and sounds that sear white-hot into the cortex such as the punctual pounding from the bowels of the house, the lost well under the floorboards, or, ugh, that little wheelchair. No, I need only mention the seance scene, surely the most terrifying ever put on film. Never has a film managed to show a troubled spirit’s vociferous and haphazard manifestations with quite so much sustained vigor. I now live in Vancouver mere minutes from several key locations where the film was shot, a fact that delights me no end during my annual viewing. MikeDario Argento’s Suspiria (1977) and Profondo Rosso (1975)Most people tend to focus on Suspiria’s nightmarish colourful cinematography but for me Suspiria’s score, composed by the group Goblin, is wonderfully haunting. In particular the film’s main musical theme which sounds like a warped, corrupted music box tune. Not as well known as the likes of John Carpenter’s Halloween films main theme music, but easily as spine tingling. KevinSuspiria is widely regarded as Dario Argento’s masterpiece, but I love Profondo Rosso (Deep Red). The director is at the top of his game here with the wonderful cinematography, the amazing score and a memorable performance by the late great David Hemmings. The rhythm of the film is spectacular. Profondo Rosso is a reminder that the strange and unusual can be very effective. Argento’s strange, disconnected Turin, with people merely set dressing always sticks in the mind. Marcus      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jessica Harper in Dario Argento’s 1977 horror Suspiria. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoLet the Right One In (2008)I first watched this around a year after it was released,. I was very depressed at the time, taking various medication which just made everything feel boring and stale. I started watching the film and straight away the dark palette of blues and blacks contrasting the falling snow made sense at the time to me unlike any other film. For the following two hours I was transfixed. I could relate to Oskar’s disconnect from the world and when meeting Eli and the shower of red, discomfort and warmth of heart she brought with her was frightening but captivating at the same time. Somehow the subdued horror of this film encapsulated everything I ever needed in a horror film. It is exceptional. Lee      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kare Hedebrant in the 2008 Swedish romantic horror film Let The Right One In. Photograph: Magnolia Home Entertainment/Allstar/MAGNOLIA HOME ENTERTAINMGreen Room (2015) The structure doesnt stick to the standard horror formula at all. You really feel like anything could happend to anyone at any time, which keeps the tension ramped up. Anton Yelchin’s performance is fantastic, playing a relatable hero who isn’t completely confident in his abilities. Past the franchises, horror is a great area for experimentation. It Follows and You’re Next stand out as horror films which subvert the genre enough to remain interesting. In that regard, horror has always lent itself to young directors and writers who want to make a statement.I think we’re awaiting the next big generation-defining fashion. The 2000s were all about metaphors for terrorism, with the likes of Saw and Hostel kidnapping everyday Joes and forcing them into terrible situations. Now the genre has reverted back to the classic ghost and witch movies with not much modernity to them. The industry is sticking to the safe bets until a new trend arises. With so many countries currently facing upheaval in various ways maybe there will be more political horrors in a similar vein to The Purge? Paul      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anton Yelchin, Joe Cole and Alia Shawkat star in Jeremy Saulnier’s Green Room (2015). Photograph: Altitude