Meringue is the ultimate crowd-pleasing dessert. Whether it’s a pretty pudding at the height of barbecue season, piled high with soft fruits, or the so-called “light option” at a Christmas party after more puff pastry canapes than you can shake a cinnamon stick at, a decent meringue will always be a winner. The recipes from this week’s swap though, are far from pedestrian; with savoury herbs, creamy chestnuts, and believe it or not, the water from a can of chickpeas, there’s no need to go classic from this moment onwards.The winning recipe: Mont Blanc messDetoutcoeurLimousin declared this “a mix of two equally delicious, classic desserts from both sides of the Channel; the British Eton Mess and French Mont Blanc”, which ultimately proved too hard to beat. You’d be wise to bank this one for Christmas entertaining.Serves 4-690g meringue, crushed125g creme fraiche125g sweetened chestnut puree (creme de marrons) Optional toppingsDark chocolate, gratedMeringue, crushedMarrons glacés (candied chestnuts)1 Combine the meringue, chestnut puree and creme fraiche. Spoon into individual serving dishes. It’s ready to eat immediately, but will keep in the fridge for a few hours if you want to make it ahead. Don’t leave it too long as they will lose their crunch.2 Sprinkle over grated dark chocolate, crushed meringue and a few chopped marrons glacés if you like just before serving.Queen of puddings with a differenceThe addition of savoury rosemary to putneyscott72’s classic pudding is a great balance to the super-sweet meringue and custard.Serves 4-6Butter, for greasing600ml milk50g caster sugarZest of 1 lemon½ tonka bean, freshly grated (optional)1 tsp vanilla extract2 eggs, separated130g breadcrumbsA pinch of salt120g caster sugarFor the jam filling250g fresh raspberries2 sprigs fresh rosemary250g caster sugarReaders’ recipe swap: Buttermilk | Dale Berning Sawa 1 Grease a medium-sized glass or ceramic oven dish with butter. Combine the milk, caster sugar, lemon zest, tonka bean and vanilla extract in a saucepan over a medium heat, stirring occasionally, until the sugar has dissolved. Set aside to cool a little.2 Beat the egg yolks together in a separate bowl. Whisk in 3-4 tbsp of the warm milk mixture. Slowly add the remaining milk mixture to the egg yolks, whisking gently until fully added. Fold in the breadcrumbs and mix well with the liquid. Pour the breadcrumb mixture into the prepared dish and set aside to soak for 20 minutes. While the breadcrumb mixture is soaking, preheat the oven to 170C/340F/gas mark 3½. Bake the breadcrumb mixture in the oven for 30-35 minutes, or until golden brown and set.3 Meanwhile, make the jam. Put a saucer in the freezer. Heat the rosemary sprigs and raspberries in a saucepan over a medium heat until they start to break down and release their liquid. Add the caster sugar and stir until dissolved, . Once the sugar has combined with the raspberry liquid, turn up the heat and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat. Drop 1 tsp of the mix on the chilled saucer. Gently push your finger through it; if the mixture holds its shape where your finger went through it and the surface wrinkles on both sides wrinkles you can carry on with the recipeIf it wrinkles when nudged with your finger, it’s ready. If not return the pan to the heat and , boil for another 2 minutes, then test again. Take the jam off the heat, take out the rosemary sprigs and set aside to cool.4 In the bowl of a stand mixer, whisk the reserved egg whites with a pinch of salt until increased in volume and dry. Reduce the whisk speed to medium and add 1 tbsp caster sugar. Whisk to fully incorporate. Increase the speed of whisking and add the rest of the sugar 1 tbsp at a time until it has all been added, and the meringues are stiff and glossy.5 To finish, spread the raspberry jam on top of the breadcrumb custard in a even layer. Spread or pipe the meringue the raspberry jam layer. Put the completed dish in the oven and bake for 20-25 minutes until the meringue is toasted and golden. Remove and serve while hot with cream, custard, or ice cream.Vegan fig, blackberry and pistachio pavlovaBryony Bowie’s show-stopping dairy-free dessert will work just as well with any seasonal fruits.Serves 4-6Water from 400g tin chickpeas125g golden caster sugar½ tsp cream of tartar½ tsp vanilla extract or pasteTo decorate500ml coconut cream, refrigerated overnight1 tsp vanilla extract or paste50g icing sugar150g blackberries3 figs, cut into eighths50g pistachios, shelled and crushedMaple syrup, for drizzling1 Preheat the oven to 110C/230F/gas mark ¼. Grease two large baking trays. Cut out two large pieces of greaseproof paper into 23cm-diameter circles. Stick them on to the baking trays.2 In a large, clean bowl, use an electric whisk to whisk the chickpea water for about 10 minutes until white, thick and shiny with soft peaks. While whisking, add the sugar and cream of tartar a little at a time until fully mixed in – about 5 minutes. Whisk in the vanilla.3 Spoon the meringue mixture on to the marked circles on the baking parchment, then transfer to the oven. Bake for 2½-3 hours, until dry and beginning to turn a light brown colour. Turn off the oven and leave the meringues inside to cool completely: this should take about 2 hours. Once cooled, carefully peel off the baking paper.4 To decorate, whip the coconut cream with the vanilla and icing sugar to soft peaks. Spoon half over one of the meringues, then top with half the fruit and pistachios. Place the second meringue on top and repeat. Drizzle over a little maple syrup and serve immediately.Dale Berning Sawa is back next week.Take part in our next theme, KALE! Three easy ways:Upload: theguardian.com/witness;email: recipes@theguardian.com; Instagram @guardian_cook by noon on Wednesday 9 Nov. Selected recipes will appear in Cook and online on 19 Nov.