It was a sprint worthy of his greatest farces: between 1937 and 1944, Preston Sturges made some of the funniest films Hollywood ever produced, including The Great McGinty, The Lady Eve, Sullivan’s Travels, The Palm Beach Story, The Miracle of Morgan’s Creek, and Hail the Conquering Hero. Then suddenly, as if his frantic, frenzied comedies had exhausted not only himself but his form, Sturges ran out of steam. Blending the comical and serious, farcical and cerebral, high and low, Sturges found catalytic energy in mixing formulas like a madcap scientist; as if he had released actual kinetic energy, he went ricocheting through Hollywood cinema, until he fell to earth with a thud. Happily, the BFI season celebrating Sturges offers audiences the chance to rediscover golden-era Hollywood’s minister of misrule.Amid a generation of the finest writers in screen history, including Ben Hecht, George S Kaufman, Charles Brackett, Billy Wilder and Anita Loos, Sturges was distinguished by his willingness to push the story, or the joke, as far as it needed to go, and the fun he had shuffling through genres and registers, like a cardsharp riffling the deck. Taking comic language seriously, Sturges was a master of exposition, using what he called “hooks” in dialogue to give his character, “like a trapeze artist, something to swing from on his way to another point of view”. The pendulum swing between perspectives was Sturges’s specialty, resulting in a volatile density of language, reminding us that “ludic” and “ludicrous” share the same root. His comedy relies less on one-liners than on the cumulative effect of repartee, and the accelerating sense that everything might go entirely off the rails, a mounting unease entangled with his films’ satirical sense of mischief.Genre conventions safeguard the viewer, who stays confident the hero will survive, right will prevail, rules will be followed. Sturges offers no such assurances. His films often begin with endings. They also resist endings – or, put another way, gleefully carry on ending, piling up closures. One of his last films, The Sin of Harold Diddlebock (1947), opens with a re-edit of the final reel from Harold Lloyd’s 1925 silent film The Freshman before turning into its sequel. Easy Living is surely one of the few films to introduce its heroine by dropping a fur coat on her head; and at the end of the film, the same coat is dropped on a different girl’s head, as Sturges breezily implies he could have told a different story. The Palm Beach Story ends by refusing to explain its opening sequence; the hero simply declares: “Of course, that’s another plot entirely.” Arbitrariness is one of Sturges’s favourite themes, equally shaping his characters, plots and the boundaries of his films.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch The Sin of Harold DiddlebockAlways ahead of his time, Sturges anticipated the games of cinematic postmodernism before modernism had even found its feet, while his satirical targets remain as current as ever: economic and political corruption, the contingency of success, the delusions of meritocracy, the jaundiced sense that the US is a lottery that’s either rigged or random. In Christmas in July (1940), about a working man who mistakenly believes he has won a big-ticket contest, Sturges offers an acidic jibe at false consciousness: “I’m not a failure,” insists a corporate middle manager. “I’m a success … No system could be right where only half of 1% were successes and all the rest were failures.” Preoccupied by questions of inequality, success, power, money, chance and luck, Sturges’s films could not be more timely.Summoned to Hollywood in the wake of a hit play, Sturges commanded astronomical fees in an age when most scriptwriters were treated like hacks. Always fighting to control his own scripts, he eventually became Hollywood’s first writer-director. His debut independently written feature was The Power and the Glory (1933), a dark little fable about ambition and betrayal, using narrative voiceover to bind discontinuous chronology and competing perspectives, breaking the rules from the start. Orson Welles said part of his preparation for making Citizen Kane was intently studying The Power and the Glory, a film also likened, not unjustly, to the work of Eugene O’Neill, if O’Neill had ever written anything so concise.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Preston Sturges. Photograph: Paul Dorsey/The LIFE Picture Collection/GettyIt was 1937 before Sturges wrote his first full-length comedy, Easy Living, finding his metier in an acerbic satire of the filthy rich. After the fur coat lands on her head, our heroine turns around and, seeing a man in a turban behind her, demands an explanation: “Say, what’s the big idea?” Looking up from his book, he solemnly replies: “Kismet.” With that joke, Sturges announced that his comedies would play with big ideas: Easy Living is indeed about kismet, spinning the wheel of fortune to skewer the Puritan work ethic, sending up the myths that discern morality in the caprices of American society. Easy Living is an archetypal screwball comedy, a genre that flourished in Hollywood from 1934 to 1944 and derived its energy from setting oppositions (male-female, rich‑poor, fast-slow, honest-crooked, innocent-experienced, and many more) into conflict. Embracing speed like a religion, screwball found in Sturges, who loved the exhilaration of movement, its greatest practitioner. He would never make a film without some element of screwball again. His next major feature was the underrated Remember the Night (1940), an eccentric mix of screwball and melodrama starring Barbara Stanwyck, whom Sturges liked so much he wrote The Lady Eve for her a year later. Somewhat resembling It’s a Wonderful Life, Remember the Night offers a similar blend of redemptive Christmas-time Americana grounded in a darker story about moral relativism. It was, Sturges said, a film in which “love reformed her and corrupted him, which gave us the finely balanced moral that one man’s meat is another man’s poison”. Unlike most American film-makers, Sturges never confused morality with moralising. Easy Living is about kismet, spinning the wheel of fortune to skewer the Puritan work ethic After years of lobbying to direct, he agreed to forego his usual hefty fee in order to direct his next film, The Great McGinty. In it, a bum joins forces with a corrupt boss and eventually becomes a state governor. When he tries to go straight for love, his life is ruined; if he had stayed crooked, he would still have been governor. The film, which won Sturges the first Academy Award for an original screenplay, shows why André Bazin called him the “anti-Capra”. Mr Smith Goes to Washington had recently promised that Washington could be redeemed by one honest man. The Great McGinty burlesqued that very idea, declaring the entire political system unconditionally rotten. McGinty was also the first film to establish Sturges’s unofficial stock troupe, a group of character actors with whom he worked repeatedly, giving continuity and texture to his filmic world, while also creating the possibility of traversing it, as the governor and the boss from The Great McGinty reappear later in The Miracle of Morgan’s Creek. The borders of Sturges’s films are always porous.Sturges’s annus mirabilis was 1941, the year of both The Lady Eve and Sullivan’s Travels, his two finest films. In The Lady Eve, Sturges enjoyed the most formidable screen pairing of his career with Stanwyck and Henry Fonda, matched with his most sophisticated, layered, hilarious script. Lampooning original sin, The Lady Eve flung a defence of sexual maturity in the teeth of the Hays Code of censorship. Riffing on the Garden of Eden, Sturges reverses the morality of the fall: the puritanical character played by Fonda falls for Stanwyck’s con artist, figuratively and literally. Fonda takes one pratfall after another (Sturges refused stuntmen), until his character finally grows up, accepting the shady past of the woman he loves. Like most plots revolving around masquerade, the story’s resolution entails the symbolic acceptance of a lover’s true self, but love is never an answer in Sturges; at best it is a good question.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Edward Arnold, Jean Arthur, and Ray Milland in Easy LivingTen months later, in Sullivan’s Travels, Sturges made his generic versatility the moral of the story. Careering wildly between screwball and melodrama, satire and social protest, even language and silence, the film mocks Hollywood’s sentimentality about suffering. Although its title might seem a throwaway gag about Gulliver’s Travels, Sullivan’s Travels asks Swiftian questions about whether power derives from physical force or moral rectitude, as a giant (in this case a film director) finds himself among the little people, who manage to capture him. By the film’s end, Sturges has linked comedy with freedom, offering a remarkable defence of escapism and a robust celebration of the ameliorative powers of comedy. The film director John L Sullivan begins his adventures by demanding, “What’s the matter with Capra?”; by the end, Sturges has suggested several answers, including Capra’s faith in naïveté. Sturges never assumes the ordinary guy is morally superior; the poor are just as likely to be venal as the rich, who are in turn perfectly capable of virtue. And there are always jokes on the edge of the frame: in one extraordinary shot, Sully and the girl he encounters, who have been drifting as tramps through the grim reality of depression-era America in a 10-minute silent montage, are walking down a moonlit road. Suddenly in the frame behind them is a pair of hanging legs, dangling from one of the trees. Is it a suicide? (Later plot twists might suggest a lynching.) The film keeps moving; the characters don’t notice the body, and neither have most of Sturges’s viewers. The moment has garnered almost no commentary, a moonlit scene with a body dangling from a tree in the background is the purest gallows humour.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joel McCrea and Claudette Colbert inThe Palm Beach Story. Photograph: BFIAfter defending escapism, Sturges threw himself into it with an effervescent comedy, The Palm Beach Story, in which Claudette Colbert and Joel McCrea play Tom and Gerry (get it?), a couple who fight, separate and reunite, thanks to a Shakespearean solution set up by the opening credits, an extraordinary sequence that again Sturges refuses to explain. Both The Miracle of Morgan’s Creek and Hail the Conquering Hero, his last great films, released in 1944, lambast the false pieties of patriotic wartime. Essentially one long elaborate setup for a single punchline (the eponymous miracle, which causes Hitler to demand a recount), Morgan’s Creek is one of the most subversive films produced during the heyday of the Hays Code, satirising attitudes towards unwed motherhood, teen pregnancy, patriotism, the glorification of war, and small-town America. Then came Hail the Conquering Hero, another sweeping broadside at the sacred cows of heroism, civic pride and the nobility of war. Both were huge hits, nominated for Oscars, and then Sturges suffered a series of abrupt reversals of fortune worthy of his own plots. His next film, The Great Moment, edited against his wishes, was his first pratfall. Several failures followed; Sturges made one last notable but problematic film, Unfaithfully Yours (1948), structured around a conductor whose fantasies of murdering his wife are shaped by the musical pieces he is performing. The film effectively ended his career.AL Kennedy applauds Hollywood's screwball comedies In his unfinished 1959 autobiography (provisionally entitled The Events Leading Up to My Death), Sturges wrote: “I know that my life, even in these disagreeably trying times, is complete … Is it because my hopes and disappointments and renewed hopes and ideas and inventions go all the way, the full swing of the pendulum?” The full swing of the pendulum would always be as close as Sturges came to completion. After remarking that his reflections, along with his dinner, have given him indigestion, Sturges says he’ll “ingest a little Maalox … and hope to God I don’t croak.” Sturges died of a heart attack 20 minutes later. It’s a grimly satisfying joke – the king of acidic comedy felled by antacid – and no one would have appreciated it more than Sturges.• The BFI Southbank season dedicated to Preston Sturges runs until 16 March. Bfi.org.uk