Michael Caine has said he would sign on to star in a film about the Hatton Garden jewel robbers – dubbed the “bad grandpas” – in an instant.Hatton Garden heist film goes into production Speaking to Sky News, Caine said that he was now limited in the number of potential roles he can play, and would be keen to play one of the older members of the jailed gang. “That story, the four guys in Hatton Garden, they are very, very tough,” he said. “I’ve heard my name and Ray Winstone’s name mentioned. I would do it in an instant. I’ll be 83 in March, you know, so obviously there [are fewer roles] for me to play.”The star of the classic crime capers The Italian Job and Get Carter signalled that he would not come cheap, however. He joked: “If they want me to do the Hatton Garden robbery I’ll do it – but it’ll cost you!”Speaking later to Magic Radio, Caine added: “It just goes to show, you get to my age and you say there’s no parts, and then suddenly you’re sitting there and there’s a part in the newspaper – if someone’s got the time to sit down and write it.”Four men – Brian Reader, 76; John Collins, 74; Daniel Jones, 58; and Terry Perkins, 67 – were considered the ringleaders of what has been called “the biggest burglary in English legal history”, and pleaded guilty to conspiracy to burgle with intent. The raid took place over Easter weekend in April 2015.Defending a fifth man, Carl Wood, 58, who was found guilty on 14 January after denying conspiracy to burgle, barrister Nick Corsellis pictured the heist as a Hollywood movie. “You can imagine the film titles,” he said at Woolwich Crown Court. “Bad Grandpas? The Enfield Expendables?”Michael Caine: 'I used to drink a bottle of vodka a day' A total of nine people have now either pleaded guilty or been convicted in connection with the burglary at Hatton Garden or handling the mammoth haul of bullion, jewels and cash. According to Screen International, a film with the working title The Hatton Garden Job has already gone into production. It is backed by the UK company Metrodome, which previously developed and released the gangster film The Guvnors.No details of about the director or cast have been announced, but the script has been written by Simon Cluett, whose writing credits include Age of Kill and Bonded By Blood 2. The screenwriter has mentioned that he has Caine, Winstone, 58, and Terence Stamp, 77, in mind for roles, but it is not clear if any of them have been contacted.