The composer and conductor Pierre Boulez died in January last year, aged 90. He was the first of many great musicians to die in 2016 but his name was rarely mentioned in the end-of-year roundups, simply because he didn’t have the public prominence of David Bowie, Leonard Cohen or Prince. Nonetheless, Boulez changed the concept of music – the very idea of what it is – far more than those who are more publicly mourned. He completely transformed the rules of composition, and his work challenged preconceptions in postwar Europe just as it does today. He began his musical revolution in 1943, when he was 25, and went to Paris to study with the godfather of the European avant-garde, Olivier Messiaen. When his studies were over, he needed a job. Fortunately he was a skilled player of the ondes martenot, an early electronic instrument that sounds like a lamenting robot. He got work as a jobbing musician performing with theatre companies and in cabaret.He was a regular at the Folies Bergère and there’s one fantastic story about an appearance where he was lowered on a glittering platform from the ceiling, Liberace-style.George Benjamin on Pierre Boulez: 'He was simply a poet' But he cut his serious, professional teeth with the Renaud-Barrault theatre company, who performed Greek plays, Shakespeare and other classics. He began in the pit band, playing the ondes martenot, but soon became the company’s musical director, arranging and conducting popular classics and theatre music. In his spare time, he composed Structures Book 1, Polyphonie X and Le Marteau sans Maître, wrapped in a blanket in his tiny, two-room garret that was without heating or running water.The French government funded several tours of South America by the Renaud-Barrault company and in 1950, 1954 and 1956 Boulez went with them. It wasn’t what he really wanted to do; he wanted to be an avant-garde composer, but he needed to earn a living.Letters that Boulez wrote at the time of his South American journeys have recently been unearthed by Edward Campbell of Aberdeen University. They tell of his frustrations at having to work in the theatre. He refers to “ … insipid and unimportant music” and “tiresome incidental noises”. But the indigenous music of South America was a different matter, especially when, in Brazil in 1950, he witnessed the magical rituals of Candomblé, a religion with twin roots in Roman Catholicism and African Vodou.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The theatre company’s director, Jean-Louis Barrault, described one ceremony they attended: “The singing became more intense. The audience began to get caught up in it. Suddenly one of the choir singers was electrocuted by the medium. Like a wounded man he bent forward and moved inside the circle.”Speaking with the scholar Peter O’Hagan in 2013 about the impact South American music had on his work, Boulez said: “… I used the music of Candomblé, because it was mainly percussion, very impressive … [In Peru] I liked the songs and the sound between the harp, flute and piccolo – that was really something. I took it [into] Pli Selon Pli, where there are four piccolos and three harps.”A guide to Pierre Boulez's music So, Boulez, the doyen of 1950s serialism, was taken by the sounds of Peruvian folk music and bewitched by the frenetic drumming of frenzied, spiritual rituals. His music is often considered a cold, detached juggling of mathematical tables, but in fact pieces such as Le Marteau sans Maître and Pli selon Pli are infused with the powerful sonic magic he experienced in South America.And that isn’t all. In 1956 in Caracas, he conducted a symphony orchestra for the very first time. He achieved international fame and acclaim as a conductor, perhaps more than as a composer, but his orchestral conducting career began not in Paris but in Venezuela, well away from the attentions of the cosmopolitan music scene. In a letter home, he wrote: “To be honest, I feared the test of the large orchestra … I’ve done it and I pulled it off without doing any harm.” Here was one of the greatest conductors of the 20th century, initially full of self-doubt, celebrating the fact that he could actually conduct a large symphony orchestra, having previously only conducted small ensembles. It must have been like driving a juggernaut having previously nipped around in a two-seater.Surprisingly, the early career of the last great modernist composer and celebrated conductor was boosted, not in the salons and concert halls of Paris, but at the edges of the rainforest in a country far removed from the European avant-garde, where some of the most radical music of modern times became possessed by native ritual magic.• Boulez and his Rumble in the Jungle, presented by Robert Worby, is on BBC Radio 3 on 29 January at 6.45pm and then available on iPlayer for 30 days.