Adam West and Burt Ward are reprising their roles as Batman and Robin in a new animated film.The two men announced the news themselves in a trailer for Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders posted by Entertainment Weekly. The video shows the two heroes tied up and lying on a lunch tray which is headed for an aptly labelled giant oven. It was complete with campy jokes reminiscent of the live-action 1960s TV show in which the two men starred.Batman 66 Labels (@BatLabels)GIANT OVEN pic.twitter.com/H6DxV4bahHAugust 17, 2016“Holy spoiler alert!” Robin, voiced by Ward, exclaims. West’s Batman discusses the film while freeing himself his bonds by dipping his hands into food on the tray.The caped crusader and his sidekick will face all the familiar villains: “Joker, Riddler, Penguin and Catwoman on earth and in space,” according to the trailer.Julie Newmar, who played Catwoman on the show, will also reprise her role. No other casting announcements have been made thus far.The Batman TV series which starred West, Ward and Newmar originally ran from 1966 to 1968. West has become a beloved Batman icon, with fans fondly remembering his role as that of a kooky, exaggerated superhero. West and Ward have played animated versions of their famous characters once before, in the short-lived New Adventures of Batman cartoon in 1977. West has also appeared as himself on cartoons like Family Guy and the Fairly Odd Parents.Warner Bros Home Entertainment is scheduled to release the film digitally 11 October and on Blu-ray on 1 November.The delightfully tacky film comes mere months after the release of another animated Batman film with nostalgic ties, but with much more humor. An animated version of Batman: The Killing Joke, based off a 1988 graphic novel, had a limited cinema release last month to controversial reviews, calling it out as “wretchedly awful” for its sexist plot. Its cast featured alums from the 1990s Batman: the Animated Series – including Kevin Conroy as Batman and Mark Hamill as the Joker.Fans seemed excited about the new film. “There May Be Hope For This Fallen World,” comic book news site Comics Alliance titled their article on the movie.In the trailer, West signed off with his famous line from the 60s TV show: “To the Batmobile!”