Barn dance with Aphex TwinLondon’s most discerning day festival, Field Day, has a flash new bit of kit to show off this year: the Barn, a vast hangar-like structure that boasts cutting-edge light shows and a whomping, next-level sound system. Of course, such a forward-thinking space needs a headliner to match. Step forward Aphex Twin, who will be blasting out his glitchy, futurist rave for a rare UK performance. Likely to be, err, barnstorming. Gwilym MumfordCelebrate 50 years since the summer of love Nothing says turn on, tune in, drop out quite like, er, the Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra, so head to Festival Number 6 in September to see them celebrate Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band’s half a century along with premier tribute act the Bootleg Beatles. It’s not the only loved-up happening at this year’s festivals – Bestival have an Increase the Peace fancy dress theme, while Port Eliot is promising a summer of love for all who attend. Tim JonzeShed a tear at Bon IverWhen writing the hyper-modern 22, A Million, Bon Iver found himself having panic attacks and singing “it might be over soon” into a sampler – not exactly an ambience that screams “living it up at a European waterfront festival”. But given he cancelled a recent run of gigs due to “personal reasons” earlier this year, his returnexclusive sets at the two Primaveras should be cathartic for those on and offstage. Harriet GibsoneWatch out for Wiley      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grime of your life: Wiley.When they played Wireless last year, MC collective BBK – including Skepta, JME, Jammer and Frisco – were doing a victory lap after restoring grime as a British cultural behemoth. The likes of Shutdown, Feed Em to the Lions and Man Don’t Care will pop off at Manchester’s Parklife (10-11 June) and Glastonbury (21-25 June) will go off like a rocket – but whether grime’s ultimate enigma, Wiley, will turn up is anyone’s guess. Ben Beaumont-ThomasFire a giant confetti cannonBestival (7-10 September) has gone all out for visual spectacles. Not only do they have a headline set from Pet Shop Boys and their excellent new stage show, but they’ve also got the a whacking great confetti cannon – the world’s biggest – which is great news for anyone planning to pop the question. Even better, you won’t have to traipse over to the Isle of Wight to see it, as the festival has moved to Dorset. Gwilym MumfordCheer on Chance The RapperIt’s the best pun of the festival season and it may well be the best party, too, as Kendal Calling (27-30 July) hosts a night playing nothing but Toronto’s biggest grime fanboy Chance may be the world’s most woke artist, having led a march of thousands to vote in the US elections. He’s just cancelled the rest of his European dates so his Wireless headline slot on 7 July will be the only place to catch him. Kate HutchinsonTake midnight mass with Father John      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mist opportunity: Father John Misty. Photograph: Kevin Winter/Getty Images for CoachellaLove him or loathe him, former Fleet Foxer Josh Tillman, AKA, Father John Misty, can out-hip-shake Jarvis Cocker in the performance stakes, managing to pull off impressively limber backbends even as he’s mourning his own existential crisis. He plays his debut UK festival headline slot at End of the Road (31 August-3 September). Hannah J DaviesSing along with CharlotteMorphing karaoke into conceptual art and having wild fun in the process, Charlotte Church’s Late Night Pop Dungeon is a delight. Backed by a full band, she belts her way through mashups of songs by everyone from Super Furry Animals to Amerie. If you aren’t screaming along with her within 10 minutes, you’re probably dead. Phil HarrisonDance with disco legendsIf the time Guardian writers all ditched Glastonbury’s Pyramid stage in order to party to Chic at West Holts proves anything, it’s that disco is the perfect festival music. Which is why Chaka Khan at Wild lLife festival and the never-less-than-mesmerising Grace Jones at Wilderness should hopefully distract you from whatever guitar band is plodding away elsewhere, hula hoops’n’all. Tim JonzeDiscover the sound of 2017      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Get Wizzical: Wizkid.After grime’s dominance over the last three years, the key sound in black British music now is Afrobeats, a diasporic style where west-African or Caribbean rhythms are topped by UK MCs and slick production. Get down to Brighton’s new music showcase the Great Escape (18-20 May) or London’s Wireless (9 July) for Abra Cadabra and Kojo Funds, or go to BBC Radio 1Xtra’s Reading and Leeds stage, with J Hus, Mist, Not3s and more (25-27 August). And for the new generation of Afrobeats, breakout Nigerian star Wizkid also appears is at Wireless. Ben Beaumont-ThomasSit at Solange and Frank’s tableThe leaders of the alt-R&B charge are the stars of Lovebox’s 15th anniversary edition – a treat for the eyes as well as the ears: Solange will hopefully be transposing her glorious Cranes in the Sky visuals to the stage, while Blonde was famously trailed with Ocean labouring over some woodwork, so who knows what kind of conceptual craft-based performance could be in store for us at his Victoria Park show. Rachel AroestiParty like it’s 1998There are umpteen potential fireworks moments at London’s gay/straight/whatever fest Mighty Hoopla on 4 June – Years & Years, Sink the Pink’s dragtastic dancers, Will Young, and Charlotte Church’s the aforementioned Late Night Pop Dungeon, but the Guilty Pleasures stage is doubling up as the TOTP of your youth with 90s pop group S Club getting in formation and Now That’s What I Call … mainstays Snap! and Technotronic pumping out the jams. Kate HutchinsonLose yourself in Block9       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Been around the Block: NYC Downlow at Block9. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianThe apocalyptic treasure trove of disco and drag queens is Glasto’s year-on-year highlight, and it celebrates its 10th birthday in 2017. Will it be growing old gracefully? Hopefully, and almost certainly, not. Luke HollandPay your respects to the Black MadonnaChicago’s Marea Stamper is the must-see DJ of the season summer – her electrifying sets spanning disco, techno and acid feel like dance music’s riot grrrl: gritty, raw and imbued with sweat. Catch her at UK fests this year Parklife, Sunfall, Creamfields and Lost Village. Kate HutchinsonSee festivals in 3DWatching things in 2D is so last century. In 2017 German electro automo-titans Kraftwerk bring their stereoscopically spectacular live experience to Portugal’s Neopop, while Gorillaz’s great esc-ape, the Demon Dayz fest in Margate, will once again see the fictional band brought to life in a digital visual spectacular. Luke HollandRemember the Fresh Prince rap“Now, this is a story …” Marvel at how that immortal line will trigger a long-forgotten memory of the entire Fresh Prince of Bel Air theme tune as Will Smith and Jazzy Jeff reunite for the first time in 12 years for a string of live dates, including the Livewire festival in Blackpool, 25-27 August. Kate HutchinsonReach for the air mic      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aero dynamic: Steven Tyler of Aerosmith. Photograph: Kevin Mazur/WireImageYou don’t want to close your eyes, you don’t want to fall asleep, because you might miss lithe and suspiciously ageless pec-rockers Aerosmith bringing their glossy stadium rock to devil-hornfest Download (9-11 June). It’s the third time Steven Tyler and co have headlined the festival, Whatever happens at Donnington Park, triumph or wee-showered calamity of the decade,and as they’re currently on their ‘Farewell Tour’, expect a few deep cuts. No matter what, it’ll be interesting. And fun. Luke HollandRave in an ancient tunnelWhen it comes to festivals with the wow factor, you could do worse than a 5,000-year-old lava tunnel featuring a live set from someone who looks like a Game of Thrones extra. Iceland’s Secret Solstice has such (new for this year) earthly delights, with acoustic music from Viking-like folk dude Hogni and more local names to follow. Kate HutchinsonDiscover a cool choirPaul Simon might not be headlining any festivals this year but that matters not in 2017: you will still be able to do the air saxophone and slap bass to a triumphant rendition of You Can Call Me Al thanks to the London African Gospel Choir, who will be performing Simon’s masterpiece Graceland in full at Kendal Calling (27-30 July) and Bestival. Cue 1,000 Instagram “stories” of mates singing You Can Call Me Al at top volume – brilliant fun. Kate HutchinsonFeel the burn It’s the final curtain for one of the UK’s first boutique festivals (read: flower crowns, naked sauna tents and a music lineup that never really made sense) in August. But no matter the downsides of Secret Garden Party (20-23 July) and the ra-fest it became, its Saturday night fireshow was always a treat, where they set their installations on fire and let off the catherine wheels into the sky. Expect it to bow out with a truly magnificent bang. Kate Hutchinson