If I had to describe what I do in a sentence, I would say that I listen to how the actors are delivering Shakespeare’s words. It’s not really anything to do with voice production: it’s more that I’m paying attention to how the thoughts travel into space, and I intervene if I think I can make the thought travel more acutely. I work individually with actors: most sessions go on for an hour or so, and if they’ve got a large role, I might see them three or four times in the course of rehearsal. You’re trying to break down the sense; sometimes you’re paraphrasing, trying to get to the bottom of what Shakespeare really means by a word or a phrase. It’s never arbitrary.What I’ve realised over the years – I’ve worked on more than 90 plays at the Globe now – is that Shakespeare has a particular kind of music, but it changes through his career. The really early plays are similar to Christopher Marlowe: strong line after marvellous strong line. Even weak characters – you think of Henry VI, for instance, who’s an absolute failure as a monarch – sound strong. But quite early on in his career, Shakespeare begins to realise that’s not the way people actually speak; he’s attracted to people who are unsure or beginning to doubt, trying to find their way and not always succeeding. And the verse he writes reflects that: it’s full of pauses, uncertain rhythms, slight inconsistencies. He’s trying to find a way that people actually speak, but do it in a poetic form that will echo around an open-air theatre as big as the Globe. Technically the form is iambic pentameter, five beats per line, but I hate that phrase: it scares people off. I prefer to think of it as the pulse of the line.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Shakespeare is always thinking about how to make the scene as intense as possible on stage’ … John Light in The Winter’s Tale. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianHenry VIII, which I worked on in 2010 in collaboration with the director Mark Rosenblatt, is fascinating in that it’s a collaboration with Shakespeare’s younger colleague John Fletcher, written almost at the end of Shakespeare’s career. Even if you can’t see on the page where the joins are between the two authors, the moment they’re spoken by actors you can hear the difference. Fletcher doesn’t sound like Shakespeare – he’s got a softer, slightly more romantic and lyrical sound. By contrast, Shakespeare is frequently very clunky and aggressive, lots of hard sounds together. He compresses things, compresses thoughts; that’s a real hallmark of his late style. He is so experienced by this stage of his career, 40-odd plays in, and he knows exactly what he’s doing. Henry VIII is all about political machinations, who’s up, who’s down, who’s in and who’s out. It becomes of crucial importance how people speak as well as what they say. I’ve recently been working on The Winter’s Tale, written a year or two earlier than Henry VIII. Some of its language is so dense. There’s a famous speech early in the play where Leontes begins to convince himself that his wife Hermione has been having an affair with his best friend, and it begins: “There may be in the cup / A spider steeped …” The language is so complex at that moment. It’s almost as if, even as Leontes speaks the words, he doesn’t really understand what he’s actually saying. His mind is racing. Shakespeare is always thinking about how to make the scene as intense as possible on stage. But for all the links between the plays, they are also so different from each other; once he’s finished one play, that’s over, and he’s on to something completely different. I’m always trying to find ways to describe why Shakespeare writes the way he writes. Somehow you never quite get to the end of the journey.