A short film is showing in a corner on the eighth floor of the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. Just over eight minutes long, the 2004 piece by Oscar-winning film-maker Laura Poitras shows a family in Iraq up on their roof checking out gunfire on the streets.Laura Poitras takes documentaries into the future with Field of Vision The footage is fairly banal especially coming, as it does, at the end of Poitras’s dark and absorbing new exhibition, Astro Noise, a series of installations and pictures the artist has used to explore her interest in the surveillance state that arose in the wake of 9/11. Despite the gunfire, it is the show’s quietest moment. Just a family reacting in the morning light to what, sadly, is their everyday life. The film changed Poitras’s life. Like the photo in Antonioni’s Blow-Up or the recordings in Coppola’s The Conversation the film is an “inciting incident” – a document that initially appears benign but that triggers a journey into the dark.After returning to the US from Iraq, where she had been filming her Oscar-nominated documentary My Country, My Country about life for Iraqis under US occupation, Poitras was placed on a government watchlist, detained and searched every time she crossed the US border amid unfounded rumours that she had foreknowledge of the attacks on US soldiers near where she had been filming. She said she never felt she had been “put on a list because people were watching my movies. It’s not 1984 and Thought Police. It’s more Kafkaesque.”Poitras sued the US government under the Freedom of Information Act (Foia) to find out what they had on her. Documents started arriving just in time for the show – 800 pages so far – and some have been included in the accompanying catalogue. “The Foia lawsuit was very much part of the artistic practice,” she says, laughing. “I’m very grateful to the government for releasing them just in time for the show.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vibrant but sinister: ANARCHIST: Israeli Drone Feed (Intercepted February 24, 2009), 2016. Photograph: Courtesy of Laura PoitrasPoitras is a collaborative artist and Astro Noise is a name she took from her most famous collaborator, Edward Snowden. The National Security Agency (NSA) whistleblower contacted Poitras anonymously in 2013 impressed by the two documentaries she had made about the post-9/11 world, The Oath and My Country, My Country.At the time Poitras was working with curator Jay Sanders on a piece for Whitney’s biennial art show. “I was having all these ideas and thinking this isn’t going to work for a documentary because I will never meet this person,” she said. She spoke to Sanders about presenting it as an installation.The idea fizzled out at that point especially as she had been informed it was “probably not a good idea” for her to return to the country. And then, of course, Snowden revealed himself. In a series of explosive stories that won Poitras, her friend the journalist Glenn Greenwald and the Guardian a Pulitzer prize, Snowden laid bare the vast network of mass surveillance US and UK authorities had covertly spun in the wake of 9/11.As a visual artist, Poitras initially had some frustration with the medium, if not the message, of Snowden’s revelations. “I felt an obligation: of course I was going to report it,” she said. “It’s information of vital public interest. On the other hand, as a visual journalist, there is a limit to what you can do with a PowerPoint.”Poitras found enough visual material to win an Oscar for her documentary on Snowden, Citizenfour. But she felt there was more more to be mined from the archive he had trusted her with.Astro Noise was the name Snowden gave to an encrypted file containing evidence of mass surveillance he sent to Poitras. It also refers to the faint background disturbance of thermal radiation left over from the big bang.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Poitras and Glenn Greenwald accept the best documentary Oscar for Citizenfour. Photograph: Kevin Winter/Getty ImagesThe Whitney show opens with a video installation. Shocked faces stare out of the screen hanging from the center of the room. Some are open-mouthed, others apparently wiping tears, all in slow motion as they stare at the unseen smouldering ruins of Ground Zero. In the background an eerie choir sings a distorted national anthem, recorded at New York’s Yankee stadium weeks after the attack.On the flipside, soldiers drag two hooded men in chains into a stark concrete cell. Interrogations begin: “Who is Fatima?” “My daughter.” “You are lying.” The prisoners, Said Boujaadia and Salim Hamdan, were both later transferred to Guantánamo. Hamdan, who had been Osama bin Laden’s driver, was the subject of The Oath.From there the show takes a journey through the surveillance state 9/11 created offering – in one piece literally – windows into the world in a series of installations that end with the family on the roof. The show is oddly beautiful. You can lie down and watch the night skies over Iraq and Yemen. Vibrant computer-generated prints greet you as you exit the elevator. But the sky is full of drones (or at least their suggestion); you are being literally spied upon as you watch, as an earlier video shows. The prints are images from a project codenamed Anarchist, a top secret spy program run by the NSA and its UK counterpart Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ).“I feel working with cinema, with any medium, I wanted beauty and also this undercurrent. I am not interested in one note, I am interested in layers. This is not just an abstract painting, it’s a communication from an Israeli drone flying over the occupied territories and then it has a very interesting subtext,” said Poitras.The show has been a freeing experience for Poitras, she said. “I get to give up a certain amount of control. I get to give up control of time. You decide how long you stay with a piece, you can’t do that in film. I like that. I like saying it’s up to you. But then I get a new kind of control. I get to decide how people can navigate a space. I’m interested in these twists and turns and reveals,” she said.Twists and turns that Poitras has illuminated to reveal a world that would rather remain unseen.Laura Poitras: Astro Noise is at the Whitney Museum, New York, from 5 February until 1 May. Details here