It has been described as his parting gift, a knowing musical finale before he bowed out of this world. And now Blackstar, David Bowie’s final album which was released just two days before his death from cancer, has stormed to the top of the UK album charts.Bowie’s final album sold 150,000 copies in its first week, knocking Adele’s 25 from her seven-week stronghold at the top of the charts, and securing the pioneering musician his 10th No 1 album.David Bowie's last days: an 18-month burst of creativity Blackstar had already been on course for the top spot before the singer’s death was announced on Monday but purchases and streams by hundreds of thousands of mourning fans helped Bowie secure a quarter of the spots in the week’s Top 40 album chart. A total of 623,000 Bowie recordings were sold this week, including 241,000 album sales. Nothing Has Changed, a 2014 best of Bowie compilation, shot to No 5 in the album charts and two other greatest hits albums – the retrospective The Best of 1969/74, and Best of Bowie – came in at No 11 and 18 respectively.This week also saw a revival of sales of Bowie’s classic albums from the past six decades, including Hunky Dory, which re-entered the chart at 14, The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust (17) and Aladdin Sane (23).It was a similar story on the the iTunes chart where Bowie’s Blackstar made No 1, Best of Bowie was at No 3 and his 1972 album The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust was at No 8.David Bowie: Blackstar review – urgent, contemporary and elliptical Tony Visconti, Bowie’s long-term collaborator and the producer of Blackstar, said tthe singer had begun making the album 18 months ago after he was diagnosed with cancer. It marked a new sound for Bowie, who brought in a group of renowned New York jazz musicians to work on the album. “He always did what he wanted to do,” said Visconti in a tribute message. “And he wanted to do it his way and he wanted to do it the best way. His death was no different from his life – a work of art. He made Blackstar for us, his parting gift.”As well as jazz influences, Bowie took inspiration from the rapper Kendrick Lamar for Blackstar, his 25th studio album, with songs such as Tis a Pity She Was a Whore bringing together a hip-hop beat with free-form sax.On its release in 8 January, it was received with almost universal critical praise, with the Guardian’s Alexis Petridis calling it “ambiguous and spellbinding … a rich, deep and strange album that feels like Bowie moving restlessly forward.” Before his death, Bowie reportedly recorded five new tracks that he planned to release on a later date, either as part of a Blackstar re-release or as an entirely new albumIn an interview with Rolling Stone, Visconti revealed that Bowie’s cancer had briefly gone into remission last year and that the singer had hoped to make a follow-up to Blackstar. Before his death, Bowie reportedly recorded five new tracks that he planned to release on a later date, either as part of a Blackstar re-release or as an entirely new album Was David Bowie saying goodbye on Blackstar? The mass outpouring of grief and nostalgia prompted by the news of Bowie’s death has led the singer to dominate the singles charts and streaming sites. Streaming services reported that listens of his music had hit a high of 19m this week, alongside 167,000 purchases of some of his most famous tracks. Five of his songs re-entered the Top 40, peaking at number 12 with Heroes, a new high for the track which only reached number 24 on its release in 1977. Despite being one of Britain’s most beloved musicians, Bowie only had five No 1 singles in his career and spent a total of just 13 weeks in the top slot. Bowie was reportedly cremated in New York and his family said the singer would be commemorated in a small private ceremony.