Worse than a whitewash: has Ghost in the Shell been Hollywoodised? Once upon a time, traditional art forms feared the internet’s piracy potential. Yet while the cadging of content is still the knife to the throat of many industries, the web has also proved itself to be a marketing miracle – not just in terms of how quickly it can spread the word, but in the strange ways the public will create their own guerrilla ad campaigns. Hip-hop duo Rae Sremmurd’s 2016 single Black Beatles sold more than a million copies thanks to the mannequin challenge, a viral-video craze started by some Florida school kids, and this year’s Bad and Boujee by Migos also reached the top spot after being buoyed by the “raindrop, drop top” Twitter snowclone based on its lyrics.Film and TV are also reaping the rewards of this ad-hoc publicity. Barb from Netflix’s Stranger Things became a viral sensation last year, inspiring various gifs and image macros – something that transformed her from minor character into internet shorthand for empathetic loserdom, and a priceless publicity tool in the process. More recently, race-based comedy-horror Get Out spawned a viral-video challenge aping a shot from the film, in which a man runs right up to the camera before turning away at the last moment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Ghost in the Shell Meme Generator Tweet by @ValerieComplex. Photograph: TwitterYet when publicity campaigns try to force this kind of meme-making, it can backfire. In this week’s manga adaptation Ghost in the Shell, Scarlett Johansson takes on the role of the Major. When Paramount Pictures, the studio behind it, created a meme generator with which users could upload a picture and statement about their own inner strength into a poster for the film – thereby standing in for Johansson’s character – people were quick to utilise it in order to call out the film’s whitewashing. “I am the woman that should’ve been cast,” @ValerieComplex captioned a picture of an Asian woman, while @weimingkam splashed “I am putting the Asian in Caucasian” over a still of Tilda Swinton as the Ancient One in Doctor Strange, a character who was a Tibetan monk in the film’s comic-book source material. It’s proof that, while social media users can be powerful messengers, they will choose their message; that is risk-free if you’re a slightly inane rap song, not so much if you’re a movie trying to negotiate troubling imperialistic overtones.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   #TFWGucci by Ege Islekel. Photograph: GucciMeet the man behind the 'white guy blinking' meme This month, the fashion industry likewise jumped on the memes-as-marketing brandwagon, with Gucci creating a line of memes to publicise its Le Marché des Merveilles range of watches. The series, titled #TFWGucci, combines glossy fashion editorial pictures, illustrations and candid shots with watch-themed captions, in collaboration with notable meme-makers such as @champagneemojis, @beige cardigan, and @textsfrom yourexistentialist. The effect is slightly strange: they look like real memes, but their captions – such as “when you get a new watch but you don’t have any friends to show it to” and “buy milk, call mom, wash car, new watch” – use the openly disingenuous tone of traditional advertising. It’s a difficult balance to strike – capitalising on the comforting, consolatory appeal of amusing memes without cancelling out the solace with cold consumerist demands.  A meme by @gothshakira. Photograph: InstagramDespite the corporate overtones, Gucci at least plumped for some cutting-edge meme-makers for its campaign. Another of its chosen collaborators was @gothshakira, part of a new breed of content creators whose memes are obscure enough to provide a genuine alternative to the mainstream. At present, most memes operate within the bounds of only a few different emotional universes. One is the self-indulgent state of arrested development (drinking too much, eating unhealthily, liking cute animals and drowning in social apathy and/or anxiety) that is the modus operandi of some of the most-followed meme Instagram accounts, including FuckJerry and TheFatJewish. Elsewhere, there’s the ultra-nerdy 4Chan-associated memes that appropriate images such as Pepe the Frog into their ironic-but-not world of far-right japes. Others include the memes concerned with identity politics – which often go viral and lose their original meaning – as well as duller iterations, such as memes for people who really like going to the gym.But there are some fledgling fringe meme themes – the alternative music genres of the meme world, if you like – that are becoming increasingly popular, proof of how memes are currently the most fertile ground for creativity and innovation. @gothshakira, for instance, makes slightly satirical, intersectional feminist memes, often posting reaction shots of celebrities such as Jennifer Lopez and Selena Gomez with long and verbose captions referencing race, gender and astrology in a way that points out the reductiveness and simplicity of most meme text. Then there are wholesome memes, a subgenre of memes that promote uplifting, po-faced and really nice sentiments as part of a self-conscious rejection of the bitchiness and self-denigration combo the form favours so often. It’s still early days for this most modern of mediums, but it is slowly splintering into distinct styles: genre might be dying in other art forms, but with memes it’s only just beginning.