The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Riton ft Kah-lo: Rinse & Repeat   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The biggest dance anthem of early 2016 for sure. Every DJ I know is literally rinsing this!The track that currently gets the most rewinds Get Real: Mind Yo Bizness   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It has to be the new project from Claude VonStroke and Green Velvet. It’s bonkers. Two genius minds in electronic music can only be a good thing, right?!The track I think has been unfairly slept on this year CamelPhat: Constellations   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This should have been so much bigger than it was. It featured in almost every one of my sets, got support from every major DJ in the world from Eric Prydz to Pete Tong, and was on course to be the big crossover post-Ibiza tune but, unfortunately, like many people do – including myself – it missed the flight back!The track I wish i’d never played Kill The Noise: Dolphin On Wheels   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It seemed like a good idea at the time as I was doing a back-to-back session with Diplo and pretty much anything went… which it did, until you listen back to this on its own! If you fancy sampled dolphin noises over a really hard-hitting beat, this should be right up your alley!The track that should have been a crossover hit Josh Butler: Got A Feeling (Bontan remix/Pleasurekraft Edit)    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It was back in 2013 when deep house started becoming huge and this track got hammered everywhere. It was the most Shazammed track in Ibiza that year and is one of the most downloaded tracks on Beatport! It had all the makings of a hit but, due to the artist’s wishes, it never got the major-label push, which you have to respect.The best track by my favourite new artist Sonny Fodera: Invisible (U Won’t C Me)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Really loving Sonny Fodera’s house sound at the moment and find myself playing a lot of his original tracks and remixes. His productions have a great, feelgood, party vibe to them.The ideal festival track Eric Prydz: Opus (Four Tet remix)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This became a seminal club anthem ever since a video of Maceo Plex playing it to the Amnesia terrace crowd went viral!The track I’d play at my funeral Simple Minds: Don’t You (Forget About Me)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Why not go out with a bang? And let’s be honest, I want to be remembered!Danny Howard plays Refreshers 2016 at Dundee University, Friday & Cream, Liverpool Student’s Union, 20 February