FILMThe RevenantThere have been epic wilderness westerns before, but none quite as epic or wild as this. At times it’s so viscerally real and outrageously grand, you can’t quite believe what you’re seeing, let alone imagine how they did it – not least the already-infamous bear-attack scene. That show-stopping mauling sets Leonardo DiCaprio’s fur trapper on a purgatorial cross-country survival/revenge mission through a freezing cold gamut of frontier adversities, natural and human. The story, based on a true account, is pretty old-fashioned at heart, but the execution is state of the art. SRAll this week’s new film releasesTHEATREEscaped Alone(Jerwood Theatres At The Royal Court, London, Thursday to 12 March)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Tea and catastrophe”: the trailer for Caryl Churchill’s Escaped AloneAttempting to preview a new Caryl Churchill work is a hiding to nothing, given the secrecy that always accompanies it. All we know about Escaped Alone is that it concerns four women – played by Linda Bassett, Deborah Findlay, Kika Markham and June Watson – tea and a “catastrophe”. We do know that the piece will be – like most of her later works – short (at about an hour), and probably divisive. That was the case with Here We Go (45 minutes about death) at the National Theatre late last year, described as “sheer tedium” by one critic but dubbed “unforgettable” by another. Whatever transpires, the 77-year-old writer of Top Girls, who has tackled such diverse subjects as 80s bankers and human cloning, remains a landmark voice in British theatre. MCAll this week’s best new theatreTVThe Comic Strip Presents … Red Top(Wednesday, 10pm, GOLD)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A trailer for The Comic Strip Presents ... Red Top.Rupert Murdoch’s festive drinks with David Cameron indicated that after, a derisory period of exile, he’s back in the inner circle. So now is a good time for the Comic Strip team to skewer the Rebekah Brooks story. Particularly with the incomparable Maxine Peake playing the titular Red Top herself. Harry Enfield and Johnny Vegas also star. PHTALKJohn Akomfrah In Conversation(Arnolfini, Bristol, Sat)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest John Akomfrah talks about the making of Vertigo Sea and other films.Once a 1980s radical, now an OBE-holder, documentary-maker and artist John Akomfrah is one of British film’s greats. Born in Ghana, bred in the UK, he’s made deeply political, staggeringly beautiful movies since the early 80s, when he co-founded the Black Audio Film Collective, a group who melded avant garde movie-making techniques with stories of diaspora life. Thirty years after he made the landmark Handsworth Songs, a meditative yet searing Channel 4 film about the riots that exploded in Birmingham and London in 1985, his themes of migration, memory and the relationships between the old colonial powers and the developing world have never been more pressing. Vertigo Sea, a three-screen feature about oceans and the people who travel on them, is coming to Bristol’s Arnolfini gallery this week (Sat to 10 Apr) after debuting at 2015’s Venice Biennale. Shot in Norway, the Isle of Skye and the Faroe Islands with help from the BBC’s natural history unit, it’s one of the few responses to anti-migrant hysteria to involve jellyfish, 18th-century frock coats and Moby Dick. To coincide, he’ll be speaking here to writer Anthony Downey. CJAll this week’s best talksMUSICSOPHIE(Village Underground, London, Thursday)The biggest success to emanate from the PC Music stable, SOPHIE’s Photoshop-perfect productions play with the knife-edge of pop, where the distance between the sublime and banal is atomically small. Some of his creations are perfect, thrusting life into flawless crystal focus: the earwormy Bipp, the cutesy swag of Hard, the near-beatless ballad Just Like We Never Said Goodbye. But a tiny shift and suddenly they’re asinine consumerist hellscapes, as on Msmsmsm or LOVE. Expect this live set to prance gleefully between the two. BBTAll this week’s best clubsCOMEDYIsy Suttie: The Actual One (Norden Farm Centre For The Arts, Maidenhead, Sunday)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ertswhile Dobby, Isy Suttie, tells jokes. Photograph: Idil SukanFor years, Isy Suttie was one of the London circuit’s hidden treasures – an unassuming, occasionally guitar-wielding comic offering gentle but wonderfully crafted stories about her idiosyncratic upbringing in Matlock. Then she got an unexpected break with a part in Peep Show, in which she played offbeat love interest Dobby. Now she has the task of introducing her own established comic voice to new audiences, who’ll be more familiar with the sight of her repeatedly breaking Mark Corrigan’s heart than telling jokes. The Actual One ties in with the newly published book of the same name (her first), a tale of a delayed rite of passage that’s becoming increasingly common: finding you’ve turned 30, and deciding this is probably the point where you should start becoming an adult. JKAll of this week’s best live comedyFILM EVENTSSlapstick(Various venues, Bristol, Wednesday to 25 January)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sound-assisted slaptick The Awful Truth.The mechanics and dynamics of silent comedy didn’t die with the advent of the talkies – just look at last year’s Shaun The Sheep Movie. A breadth of remit allows this silent and classic comedy film festival to stray beyond the confines of early cinema, although it always manages to find more of that out there. New (re)discoveries this year include Mancunian comedies (from the studio once known as “Jollywood”), silent westerns and a Soviet menage a trois. In addition you get sound-assisted slapstick such as Cary Grant’s breakthrough The Awful Truth (introduced by comedian Lucy Porter), and guests including Stephen Merchant, Ken Dodd, Tim Vine (on Sgt Bilko), and Marcus Brigstocke in conversation with the makers of Shaun The Sheep. And if all else fails, you can’t go wrong with an orchestrally accompanied screening of Charlie Chaplin’s The Kid. SRAll this week’s best film eventsMUSICMassive Attack(Dublin, Glasgow)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Unfinished Sympathy, from Massive Attack’s 1991 debut Blue Lines.Even with a genre-shattering band such as Massive Attack, there still exists the notion of a definitive lineup. However, the group that made their first two classic albums – comprising 3D, Mushroom, Daddy G and Tricky – were destined for greatness but, given their volatile personalities, possibly never longevity. Since their mid-1990s heyday, though, the band have gained a monumental stature, embracing guest vocalists and political issues, becoming a kind of Newsnight version of Gorillaz, and lately working with film-maker Adam Curtis. The band have also attempted a rapprochement with Tricky, who has recorded for their new album – material from which may well be aired here – only to then apparently abruptly end the association. Evidently, like a dangerous country, Massive Attack is interesting to visit, though you wouldn’t want to live there. JRAll this week’s best live musicON DEMANDThe Rack Pack (BBC iPlayer, from Sunday)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest New iPlayer-only green-baize drama The Rack Pack.The picaresque world of 70s and 80s snooker was so obviously ripe for retrofitted TV drama that the only surprise is that this feature-length tragicomedy is an iPlayer-only affair. Luke Treadaway and Will Merrick enjoy themselves as broad, even scurrilous, caricatures of Alex Higgins and Steve Davis, respectively. Higgins is cast as snooker’s darkly irresistible demon who self-destructs even as Davis, in cahoots with ruthless promoter Barry Hearn, is taking the game into every living room. This narrative thrust is a slight over-simplification but does make for high drama. PHDANCEBalletLORENT: Snow White (Edinburgh Festival Theatre, Friday & 23 January)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liv Lorent and Carol Ann Duffy’s latest fairytale reboot. Photograph: Bill CooperChoreographer Liv Lorent joins forces with poet Carol Ann Duffy for the second of their clever, and illuminating fairytale collaborations. For Snow White, they return to the Grimm Brothers’ early telling, in which the heroine’s nemesis is not her stepmother but her actual birth mother, who has grown lethally jealous of her beautiful daughter. Duffy and Lorent explore the dark dynamics of family life and the relationship between beauty and power, as the work shifts from the brilliant opulence of palace life to the forest where Snow White finds humour and compassion. JMAll this week’s best live dance