      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Dawkins. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianRichard Dawkins, author of The Selfish Gene and The God DelusionThere’s a serious risk of climate catastrophe and it could be soon. Another alarmingly plausible possibility during the present century is that weapons of mass destruction, which are designed to deter, will be acquired by deluded people for whom deterrence has no meaning. Assuming we survive such manmade disasters, external peril may be averted by technology growing out of the brilliant feat of landing on a comet. The dinosaurs’ world ended when a comet or large meteorite unleashed titanic destructive forces. That will eventually happen again, and smaller but still dangerous strikes are a perennial danger in every century. Telescopes of the future will improve the range of detection, increase the warning time, and give engineers the notice they will need to intercept the bolide and nudge it into a harmless orbit.What's in a number? Richard Dawkins on 40 years of The Selfish Gene In the world of science, DNA sequencing will become ever faster and cheaper and this will revolutionise medicine, taxonomy and my own field of evolution, not to mention forensic evidence in courts of law. Embryology and cell biology will advance mightily. Novel imaging techniques may enable palaeontologists and archeologists to see down into the ground without digging it up. The rendering of virtual reality will improve to the point where the distinction from external reality may become blurred. I expect unmanned space exploration to continue, albeit with economically imposed hiatuses. Out beyond 50 years, self-sustaining colonies may be established on Mars. Human travel to other star systems lies way beyond 50 years, but radio communication from extraterrestrial scientists is an ever-present possibility. However, the intervening light centuries will rule out conversation.Richard Dawkins will present a keynote address about his career on 11 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Margaret Atwood. Photograph: Amit Lennon for the GuardianMargaret Atwood, author of Hag-SeedWill we still have a liveable planet 50 years from now? Kill the oceans and it’s game over for oxygen-breathing mid-range mammals – the oceans make 60 to 80% of our oxygen. Superheating them and dumping them full of plastic may spell our doom. I hope that we’ll be smart enough to avoid this fate. From ideas proposed in my fiction, many are equally horrible, but it seems as if the use of the blood of young people to rejuvenate rich older people – as posited in The Heart Goes Last – is already in process. I do try to avoid predicting “the future” because there are so many variables; thus, so many possible futures. But here’s a safe bet: in 25 years I won’t be on the planet, unless of course I get my tentacles on some of that rejuvenating blood.Margaret Atwood will talk about Hag-Seed, a re-imagining of Shakespeare’s The Tempest on 6 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marcus du Sautoy. Photograph: Oxford Univers/REX ShutterstockWhat We Cannot Know by Marcus du Sautoy – review Marcus du Sautoy, Simonyi Professor for the Public Understanding of Science at Oxford University and author of What We Cannot KnowIf I could communicate 100 years into the future and talk to the incumbent Professor for the Public Understanding of Science at the University of Oxford (which I can confidently predict won’t be me, even if some scientists think that we are about to cure ageing), I wonder if he/she/it will know it all. Will we have answered all the big open questions of science? I think we’ll have understood what dark matter is and what is causing the accelerated expansion of the universe. But are there questions to which we’ll never know the answer, no matter how long we wait? Could we ever know if the universe is infinite? Can we find out what happened before the big bang? I predict that science will never know it all. It would be terrible if we did. Science is a living, breathing subject because of what we don’t know. But might there be things we’ll never know? That’s a bit more frightening for a scientist.Marcus du Sautoy will deliver a keynote address on the limits of human knowledge on 16 October.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lauren Beukes. Photograph: Ulf Andersen/Getty ImagesLauren Beukes, author of The Shining Girls and SlippingWithin 10 years, cellphones are going to become our all – ID, passport, entry codes – inextricably linked to our identity with all our history carried around with us. Governments will be able to access it, and also use it to control us. Within 25 years, sex with robots or in virtual space will be normal, and in some cases preferred. Especially if the intelligence is designed to suit us, which will make us long for the era of hookup culture and Tinder dates when it was human connection, even if it wasn’t meaningful connection. We’ll travel in virtual reality to places of natural wonder, mostly because those places will be devastated by global warming and will then exist only in virtual reality, but also because air travel will have become even more unbearably hellish and no one will want to undertake it. I do hope we see more civil liberties globally. I’d like emancipation for all women 50 years from now, the freedom of choice and the information and education for everyone to live their lives as they see fit. And I think we can get there, mostly.Lauren Beukes will discuss South African sci-fi and the future of women and girls on 16 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thomas Thwaites receives the 2016 Ig Nobel prize in biology, for “creating prosthetic extension of his limbs that allowed him to move in the manner of, and spend time roaming the hills in the company of, goats”. Photograph: Brian Snyder/ReutersThomas Thwaites, 2016 Ig Nobel prizewinner and author of GoatMan: How I Took a Holiday from Being HumanNo kidding: what I learned from becoming GoatMan I think that the animal rights project will succeed in its mission to see some animals granted some of the rights of humans. But more generally, it’s tricky – there’s such a multitude of humans. I’m interested in the idea of victimless meat: growing meat in vats rather than rearing a whole sentient being just so we can eventually eat its muscles. So I predict that we’ll happily eat in-vitro meat in 10 years’ time and that within 50 years we’ll have found extraterrestrial species. I hope that evidence for intelligent life on other planets is found in my lifetime. I could die happy knowing such beings are out there!Thomas Thwaites will talk about Transhumanism and his experience of using prosthetic limbs to live as a goat on 11 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gaia Vince. Photograph: Matt LincolnGaia Vince, environmental journalist and author of Adventures in the AnthropoceneMy fears for the future are that we miss the opportunity to act as a cohesive global society to address the environmental challenges we face and end up in a situation in which a small population thrives but many struggle in poverty. My hope is that instead we face up to the crisis as a cooperative species and negotiate a way to share the world’s resources between ourselves and the natural world. I do predict, however, that in 50 years’ time the majority of our energy will be generated from carbon-free sources.Gaia Vince will be on a panel discussing climate change and the future of the planet on 11 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nikesh Shukla. Photograph: Chris Lawson/PRNikesh Shukla, author and editor of The Good ImmigrantI worry a lot about the world we’re handing over to young people. I’m a youth worker so it’s on my mind a lot. My biggest fear is we’re handing over an unfixable world, one where lines in the sand have been drawn and the only way to undo all of this is for a revolution. Or for the west to no longer be a cultural leader. It’s damn sure on its way to not being an economic one. I don’t know what the future looks like. I try to be optimistic, because you have to be, especially when you have children. But I feel as if what has happened this year will have repercussions for the future that will outlive us all.Nikesh Shukla will be talking about the essay collection The Good Immigrant alongside contributors on 6 October.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Etgar Keret. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianEtgar Keret, author of Seven Good YearsAs a parent, I think that the greatest challenge is and will always be to serve as an interface between a child and a world that often makes very little sense. Technology may advance but human behaviour will stay unpredictable and often difficult to explain. I find the present tough enough to handle. When I’m done with sorting that, I’ll be ready to deal with the next challenge – but broadly speaking, things will get better, then worse and then better again.Etgar Keret will be discussing what the future holds for the next generation on 16 October.