Most historical films reveal more about the time they were made than the eras they depict, so when a single historical figure has a sudden cultural renaissance, it’s got to mean something important. Consider the case of LBJ. In the last few years, Lyndon B Johnson has been ubiquitous in our culture: on the stage, the silver screen, and even on TV. He popped up in The Butler and Selma, and received a small but important mention in the Oscar-nominated documentary The Look of Silence. Most famously, Bryan Cranston won a Tony award for playing LBJ in Robert Schenkkan’s All the Way. The Broadway play, now an HBO movie that premiered last month, holds the key to understanding why the 36th president has suddenly become relevant again. It’s an effort to reclaim Johnson’s legacy from that of a cold-hearted politician who escalated the Vietnam war to a master negotiator who, through Washington insider-ism and sheer ingenuity, willed the 1964 Civil Rights Act into existence.And yet any time you try to pigeonhole Johnson, he slips out of your grasp. All the Way captures him in all of his frustrating complexity, and his contradictory nature allows his meaning to ebb and flow with time. Even in the last few years – since he has enjoyed this newfound cultural relevancy – he has become a political football. His legacy, so integral to our understanding of today’s racial politics, has once again become a matter of debate, and several film-makers have sought to understand our era by exploring his.Robert Schenkkan on LBJ: 'People loved or hated him, often in the same moment' Even our current president cannot resist this temptation. Just after All the Way opened in the spring of 2014, Obama spoke at a three-day celebration of the anniversary of the Civil Rights Act. Recounting some of Johnson’s most famous words, he asked that if a president can’t stand up for his values, “What the hell’s the presidency for?” Obama also explicitly compared the passage of the Civil Rights Act to his Affordable Care Act. The timing could not have been accidental – not for a president so attuned to pop culture. As All the Way was reclaiming the legacy of LBJ, Obama chose to remind Americans, as his presidency neared the beginning of the end, of his own hard-fought victories. When one critic wrote that All the Way is a portrait of a man who “made the most of our messy democratic process”, comparisons to Obama, who has navigated perhaps an even more divisive political era, are inevitable. The achievement depicted in All the Way has a natural through line to Obama. Without the passage of the Civil Rights Act, we would almost certainly never have elected a black president. But the idea of a white president who passes meaningful reforms for black Americans is not so easy to swallow today. It’s a depiction of a “white savior”, that lightning-rod of an archetype that has become a symbol not only for Hollywood’s inability to create meaningful for roles for black actors but also our society’s failures to allow the black community to be champions of their own liberation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lyndon B Johnson shakes Martin Luther King’s hand at the signing of the Civil Rights Act. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesIn 2014’s Selma, director Ava Duvernay depicted Johnson as an obstacle to civil rights who continually preached patience to Martin Luther King, while the president pursued other legislative priorities. This proved to be a contentious point, as former LBJ aides and historians emerged to refute her narrative. In a Washington Post op-ed, Joseph Califano Jr accused the film-makers of taking “dramatic, trumped-up license with a true story”. In his eyes, “the film falsely portrays Johnson as being at odds with King.” Critics have speculated that the controversy was created by a rival studio to dim the film’s Oscar chances, but, in retrospect, it seems like an inevitable reaction. Duvernay’s critical portrayal of Johnson seems designed to subvert the “white savior” archetype. Is it any surprise that some white people complained?All the Way takes a middle ground between saviorism and condemnation. On the one hand, its focus on Johnson’s effort to pass the Civil Rights Act, as opposed to his escalation in Vietnam, could be read as a celebration by means of omission. By focusing only on his biggest achievement, in other words, it inherently praises him. Yet it also exposes his flaws. He uses racist slurs in private but works publicly to enact the most important civil rights legislation since Reconstruction. He is a confident political operator, but also riddled with doubt and fear. He is a bully when the situation calls for it, but away from the political battlefield, he reveals a painful vulnerability. Bryan Cranston: 'I scare people' Perhaps in the time since All the Way has been adapted into an HBO movie, another meaning to Johnson has emerged. In an election year, All the Way scans as a plea for nuance in our reading of our political leaders. In a hyper-partisan era in which politicians are viewed either as a saint or a devil, All the Way bravely refuses such a narrow perspective. Instead, it is a portrait of that rarest of political icons: a complicated man. You can even read the Johnson depicted in All the Way as an amalgam of Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. In an early scene – Johnson’s first in the Oval Office since assuming the presidency – he displays a coarseness and insensitivity to rival the presumptive GOP nominee. He fires a secretary and taunts her on the way out for not having enough “meat on the bone”. Johnson laughs at “negro comedian Dick Gregory” for his public criticism of him, then complains that his shoes make him look like a “dago undertaker”. Then, of course, there is his utter lack of discretion when it comes to his body. He tells his tailor to “leave room for [his] nutsack” and, famously, holds meetings with key allies while sitting on the toilet.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anthony Mackie as Martin Luther King, director Jay Roach and Bryan Cranston as Lyndon B Johnson on the set of All the Way. Photograph: Hilary Bronwyn Gayle/APHis sexism, racism and lewd behavior may have made him an outlier among White House residents, but he was, in many ways, the consummate insider. All the Way dispenses with these personal flaws in the early scenes and instead homes in on his expert political maneuvering. To pass the Civil Rights Act, Johnson uses every trick in the Capitol Hill playbook: he threatens, cajoles, glad-hands and more. Democratic partisans could see the film as a defense of Washington insider-ism as a means to passing meaningful reform. It’s clear that Johnson could not have achieved these victories without the years he spent building relationships in the House and Senate. In other words, All the Way makes a case for a Hillary Clinton presidency.It’s as if Johnson is a human Rorschach test. Any effort to apply a singular meaning to him will inspire counter-arguments, which means that depictions of LBJ in our pop culture are unlikely to end anytime soon. Later this year, another biopic, this one titled simply LBJ  will be released, with Rob Reiner directing and Woody Harrelson starring. We also await the fifth(!) volume of Pulitzer prizewinner Robert Caro’s biography of Johnson. In the end, perhaps the question is not why he is suddenly so relevant, but rather what took these artists so long to discover the dramatic and political potential of an American figure so complex, so dramatic and ultimately, perhaps most importantly for our era, so pliable.