I literally grew up with Harry Potter. When the final book came out a decade ago, we were both 17. With more than 450m books sold since Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone was published in 1997, JK Rowling’s series transformed reading into something genuinely cool during my lifetime. By my late teens, I was such a big fan I donned a Sirius Black costume before queuing for the final instalment.But when it was announced in 2015 that Harry would return in a new story, the play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, and that he’d be 37, an overworked civil servant, struggling with parenting, I was dismayed. How had he gained 12 years on me? With every subsequent announcement, I got more cynical: it’s five hours long? Split in two parts? The final nail in the coffin: a midnight release for the play script in book form. It was marketed as a benevolent gesture to those who could not see the play in London, but even as someone who queued for at least four Harry Potter books, it was hard to imagine kids lining up for screeds of stage directions.Should plays be read? Many would say, no – plays are written to be performed. Many actors argue that Shakespeare’s plays shouldn’t be studied in schools, as he is only truly appreciated through performance. But then what of The Iliad or Beowulf, composed for recitation but plonked on the page for posterity – would we not consider those literature?When The Cursed Child box office opened, 175,000 tickets sold out in 24 hours – more than half of them to under-35s. At the performance I attend, the audience is mainly twentysomethings taking selfies; two guys behind me discuss the representational politics of Dumbledore’s homosexuality. I’m sitting next to one of the youngest people I can see – Maddie, 16, who tells me things like: “Did you know there are 142 staircases in Hogwarts?” – and I am filled with a profound sense of pride in the kids these books produced.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie Parker as Harry Potter. Photograph: Manuel Harlan/PAMinutes into the play, I begin to feel sorry for all the fans worldwide whose experience will be restricted to reading The Cursed Child’s script. As a book, it will be a slog: it is the equivalent of three Harry Potter novels squeezed into one, running on a Groundhog Day grasp of time travel and a Star Wars-esque handling of oedipal myth. But as a live experience, it is unique and incredible. An obsessive audience gasps at each of the reveals, cheers for the illusions, claps at the showdowns. For me, a lot of the joy comes from sitting next to Maddie, hearing her laugh, shout, cry. I can imagine that struggling through the script might be a lonely experience: something communal rendered solitary.But during the break between plays (I’m seeing both on the same day) I head to the nearby Foyles bookshop, the site of a Potter pilgrimage for 25- to 30-year-olds, and any cynicism I have for the script’s midnight release evaporates in the face of the genuine excitement all around me. Many of those who have already seen the play intend to join the queue. Wide-eyed kids who had been too young for the last Potter launch. Students who make faces at the suggestion of dressing up, but mention they have swapped Sunday shifts to spend the day reading. Grey-haired adults who proudly announce they have kept their costumes for a decade – Kingsley Shacklebolt, Luna Lovegood, a female Harry.Like me, these fans see no distinction between the characters in their heads, on Rowling’s pages, and the actors on stage. This new, older Harry is still my Harry. Watching the play, I feel an irrational desire to pull him off the stage and ask where he’s been for the last decade. The whole theatre is united by a longing for something too complex to define: nostalgia for afternoons spent reading, a reminder of childhoods gone by.Harry Potter and the Cursed Child: the West End extravaganza – in pictures So at midnight, no one will be lining up simply to buy a script, just as no one was in that theatre simply to see a play: they’re there for Harry, in any form they can get him. The Cursed Child, either as a performance or a script, is going to make a lot of people really happy. Should you read a play? If it features Harry Potter, I’m going to.• Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is at the Palace theatre, London W1. harrypottertheplay.com. The script is published by Little, Brown. To order a copy for £9 (RRP £20) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.