Oval Space Music x Dial Records, LondonThe dance LP can be a bit of a bloated format, where producers strain towards “proper artist” status when they’d be better off chucking out lean 12-inches. But as well as nurturing underground stars such as Roman Flügel and Efdemin, the Dial label has been responsible for some exceptional long-players over its 17 years: John Roberts’s cosmically jazzy Glass Eights, Pantha du Prince’s symphonic This Bliss, DJ Richard’s 2015 masterpiece Grind. Armed, then, with an exquisite taste for emotional minimalism, its founders Carsten Jost and Lawrence both DJ at this event (each are also great producers in their own right). The bill is topped by Move D and Jonah Sharp, with a rare live set for their Reagenz project. Like the former’s jams with Juju and Jordash as Magic Mountain High, they dream deeper than most, finding something eternal and ineffable in old-school drum machines.Oval Space, E2, FriBBAndrew Weatherall, Birmingham & DublinDespite having been present and generally correct on the UK electronic music scene for the past 25 years, Andrew Weatherall is far from a spent force. He describes his latest solo LP Convenanza as “looking back at the clutter of a life thoroughly lived and realising it’s too late to tidy it up in any meaningful way”. It’s been a journey that has encompassed everything from wading out of the foam when the original wave of acid house came crashing down, retreating into, and somewhat reinventing, dub through his Sabres Of Paradise project, through to his current more rockabilly-inspired output. Despite maintaining a relatively low profile, Weatherall still attracts unmatched reverence as a DJ. Seeing and hearing him play in a smoky, sweat-drenched club goes some way to explaining the appeal. You can expect a perfectly stitched exploration of his idiosyncratic taste, with tracks likely to be drawn from the near future rather than his illustrious past.Hare & Hounds, Birmingham, Sat; Wigwam, Dublin, WedJTSubstance, EdinburghWhile studying music technology in Leeds, Ed Russell skipped lectures in favour of educating himself by more visceral means: namely through having his organs displaced by the West Indian Centre’s soundsystem and attending Hessle Audio-affiliated night Ruffage. Later, this physicality seeped into his own productions as Tessela, which even by his own admission are less about subtlety and more concerned with colliding adroit patterns headfirst into one another. His latest 12-inch, Swimming With Patsy, exemplified this inclination; one side boasting clipped vocals obliterated by sonic drill splatters, the other littered with syncopated rhythms choking on infinite broken beats.The Bongo Club, FriSCTale Of Us, LondonWith their moody minimal techno scattered with bright, forehead-kissing melody, Italian duo Tale Of Us have become all things to all people: deep enough for the underground, and immediate enough for the mainstream. They’re now commanding Ibiza residencies, R&S releases, and are consistently voted into the top three of Resident Advisor’s end-of-year DJ polls – deservedly so, given their Geppetto-level skill in manipulating dancers, teasing then finally satisfying them. Tickets for this four-hour set (with Somne in support) are scarce, but returns are cropping up online.Studio Spaces, E1, SatBBPLO Man, BristolSince the dawn of time, or at least rave, DJs have been described as “blissed out”. Now drawing on the history of relaxing dance music, some of the most interesting producers of 2016 are retooling and slowing down what once was a drastically uncool sound. One of the best of those is Vancouver’s PLO Man, whose breakbeat house-referencing Stations Of The Elevated EP and bi-weekly shows on Berlin Community Radio have proven to be some of the most dreamily fixating listens of recent times. See him here at his Bristol debut.Cosies, FriCJ