Mikhail Borisovich Piotrovsky, 71, is the director of the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg. Next year he celebrates 25 years in the role. He has been described by Neil MacGregor, former director of the British Museum, as “the greatest museum director in the world”. Born in Armenia, Piotrovsky worked as an archaeologist and interpreter before taking on the museum post once held by his father, Boris. He is currently a judge of the annual Pushkin House Russian book prize, awarded to a work of nonfiction about Russia. The winner will be announced in April.The Pushkin House prize is designed to “encourage public understanding about Russia”. What do we not understand about Russia?In general there are certain images that we have. Good ones and bad ones. I think too much of today’s writing about Russia is concentrated on personalities. And today’s journalists focus too much on political opinions and political sensationalism. For example, there are now two Russias on British television: the BBC adaptation of War and Peace and Moscow politics. The latter is political issues of the day that will be forgotten within two or three months. I think what is important is War and Peace. It’s a real picture of Russia. Everything that happens in Russia today and tomorrow comes from War and Peace. There’s a connection.What is that connection?Today’s events don’t help you understand War and Peace. But War and Peace will help you to understand what happened yesterday, what is happening today and what will happen tomorrow. It explains the Russian soul. It explains something more permanent about Russia. For example, the war for the homeland against Napoleon shows that Russia does not like to be in a corner. When she is in a corner, she is not exactly lazy… But she takes time to do something. And when the response comes, it’s a strong response. It was the same situation in 1812. At a certain moment Russia had just had enough. Britain always thinks Russia is psychologically its greatest enemy In BBC1’s War and Peace there are some key scenes featuring the Winter Palace, the home of the Hermitage. The Catherine Palace and Yusupov Palace were also used during filming. Is this unusual?They did some filming near the Winter Palace. Nothing inside because there are no scenes in the novel inside the Winter Palace. I was there, but upstairs in my office. But it’s really not unusual to have people filming around St Petersburg: BBC documentaries, Anna Karenina…How do you explain the tension between Britain and Russia?Britain always thinks Russia is psychologically its greatest enemy. Because historically Russia wanted to conquer India and so on. So there have always been anti-Russian feelings in Britain. And in Russia there have been anti-British feelings ever since Britain refused to receive Tsar Nicholas II [in 1917]… But on the other hand, there is also a great deal of anglophilia and there are always British film crews who want to come and film in Russia.Your father was the director of the Hermitage for 26 years. Did you dream of following in his footsteps? And did he know you would succeed him?No, he definitely didn’t. Although in the last few years of his life there had been talk that maybe I could be a good director. I’ve kept the traditions of the Hermitage of my father. For many people they might look like conservative traditions but for me they’re the right traditions. We’ve done nothing especially new, just what my father began and planned: an understanding of the Hermitage as a global museum and a global institution. I think he would approve. I’m always trying to explain inside Russia: we have many competitive advantages. But we mustn’t be shy and we mustn’t be arrogant. Neither too proud nor too humiliated.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sculpture of the river god Ilissos on display at the Hermitage Museum in 2014, after it was loaned by the British Museum. Photograph: Grigory Dukor/ReutersWhen you brought one of the Elgin Marbles to the Hermitage in 2014, on loan from the British Museum, what did that loan represent?It showed how much trust there is between museums. It was a gift, something extraordinary for our 250th anniversary. And it showed that the British Museum is a global museum and that London is a world city. Of course not everybody understood and some people were very angry. But for me culture is always above politics. If it had been left in the hands of the politicians, it would never have happened.How is the Hermitage affected by censorship? And by public opinion? Orthodox Christians complained when you showed the Chapman brothers’ show The End of Fun, which depicts the crucifixion of Ronald McDonald.We are always talking about censorship and government. We are completely independent. We can do the exhibitions we want. But what about the public? When the public know that the museums belong to them, they want to dictate what can and can’t be shown. When you have the public saying, “I don’t like this, you shouldn’t show it”, that might sound democratic, but it’s not. It’s the dictatorship of the public. This is what happened with the Chapman brothers. At that moment we had to say: “You don’t like it? Don’t come and see it.”Why was the word “gay” removed from the title of South African artist Marlene Dumas’s Famous Gay Men work last year?At the Manifesta 10 exhibition, the artist was asked by the curator to title the work Famous Men instead of Famous Gay Men. We need to do everything within the limits of the law and not be showing propaganda. [Russian law prohibits the display of “gay propaganda”.] We addressed a lot of issues with this exhibition: the “gay” question, Ukraine… But not in a way that was a provocation.Do you have a favourite museum in London?Sir John Soane’s Museum. All museum people love it. In our new wing at the Hermitage, the General Staff Building, the architects made walls based on those in Soane’s Museum, which can be moved for temporary exhibitions.Is there a particular work of art you would love for the Hermitage?From outside? No, no. I think we have enough.The last episode of BBC1’s War and Peace is about to be screened. Have you seen it?No, not yet. But I hear it’s becoming better and better from one week to the next.