Peter Morgan has allowed us to peek through the palace curtains into the private lives and minds of royalty. Or, at least, his version of them. And his version, The Crown, is so believable that I had to keep reminding myself that this is a drama, not a documentary, as I binge-watched all 10 hours in just one day.After nearly 30 years of reporting on matters royal, I know how hard it is to penetrate the inner sanctum of palace life. Royal correspondents often work on no more than snippets backed up, if you’re lucky, by nods and winks from sources on the outer periphery of the family. So it was riveting to suddenly find myself on the inside, witnessing pieces of history I’ve talked about for years and learned about from people who were actually there – such as the moment in Africa when Philip told Elizabeth her father had died. The duke’s cousin, Lady Pamela Hicks, was with them in Kenya, as lady-in-waiting to the princess. She has described to me in detail the shock and horror of that day, which Morgan accurately depicts.The Crown review – the £100m gamble on the Queen pays off royally Claire Foy captures Elizabeth’s mannerisms perfectly. The Queen has a way of saying “Oh!” as if it were somehow more than one syllable. It is also full of meaning – as I have experienced, and as Foy portrays. With just one word, the Queen can be dazzling, disparaging or dismissive. Even seasoned correspondents get tongue-tied, and my occasional attempts to lighten the mood and make her laugh would sometimes be greeted with a bemused “Oh!”, before she moved on to the next in line. She did seem rather to enjoy it when I once told her that – having just seen her wedding dress on display – I was impressed by her tiny waist. For all their privilege, luxury and cosseting, few of us would change places with the royals and swim in their goldfish bowl. In The Crown, we see how the palace machine takes over Elizabeth’s life from the moment her uncle, Edward VIII, abdicated.Any semblance of normality was extinguished. No maths or science lessons for her. She was schooled, alone, but only in the constitution. She was immersed in “Queen-training” from the age of 10: her future mapped out, her destiny sealed. It is a nice conceit by Morgan that, in later life, her old uncle – now Duke of Windsor – advises Elizabeth that: “We are half people ripped from the pages of some bizarre mythology; two sides engaged in some civil war that never ends and which blights our every transaction as brother, husband, wife or mother.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   For all their privilege, luxury and cosseting, few of us would change places with the royals and swim in their goldfish bowl. Photograph: Alex Bailey/NetflixI doubt she ever turned to her disgraced uncle for advice, but he voices the tension that runs through the series: Elizabeth as Queen v Lilibet as wife, sister and mother. Duty versus family. Then, as now, it is the Queen and duty that prevail.But it was the wisdom of the old Queen Mary, Elizabeth’s grandmother, that stood out for me. People have always accused Elizabeth of being a cold fish, and she has made it her life’s work to remain neutral. But according to Morgan, she has simply been following Granny’s advice: “To do nothing is the hardest job of all. To be impartial is not natural. People will always want you to frown or smile – and the minute you do, you will have declared a point of view. And that’s the one thing, as sovereign, you cannot do.”To which Elizabeth poignantly replies: “Well, that’s fine for the sovereign ... but where does that leave me?”There are similar dilemmas for Philip, mischievously played by Matt Smith. I believe the Queen and duke – who will shortly celebrate their 69th wedding anniversary – have a deep and loving relationship. In The Crown, we glimpse the real passion I’m sure they enjoyed, as well as the strains on the marriage as the Queen’s duties take precedence. I’ve heard a lot over the years about Philip’s shenanigans with the notorious Thursday Club in Soho, an exclusively male gathering of the wealthy and well-to-do. The booze would flow and the banter was raucous. From his immediate family, I’ve learned how difficult those early days were for him. They told me how hard it was for Philip (a proud prince who has more royal blood than Elizabeth herself) to play second fiddle. Giving up his naval career had been a huge sacrifice – and then palace courtiers froze him out and recoiled from his modern ways. He felt emasculated and furious when Elizabeth (on the instructions of the palace and government boffins) refused to take his name, Mountbatten.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Did Philip find their Commonwealth tour ‘an absurd pantomime’ in which they were obliged to dress up and be the ‘coat of paint on a rusty old banger’? Photograph: Alex Bailey/NetflixMorgan suggests that Philip found their 23-week tour of the Commonwealth “an absurd pantomime” in which they were obliged to dress up in costumes and be the “coat of paint” on a “rusty old banger” that was “falling apart”. That may well be. But I have watched him on many royal tours, and he’s always interacting with the crowds (occasionally with gaffe-strewn results) and hoisting children over the barriers to present their posies.The series paints a fascinating portrait of life inside the palace walls, and of the ruthless “men in grey” (as Diana liked to call the courtiers who rule the royal roost). “You need to understand how things are done here,” says the steely private secretary Tommy Lascelles (played by Pip Torrens) to upstart Martin Charteris – a man I knew well and who the Queen very much wanted as her private secretary from the start. “Any departure from the rules is not to be encouraged. It results in disasters like the abdication.”Thankfully, as Charteris once told me over lunch, the way things are done at the palace now is by “evolution, not revolution”. At least, under Elizabeth’s reign, it has not remained in a state of total stagnation.• The Crown is available on Netflix now. 