“A great title is half the battle when it comes to writing a book,” my novelist friend Natasha Soobramanien told me once. She had a point. Take, for example, what is arguably Charles Bukowski’s finest work, the semi-autobiographical coming of age story set during the Depression, Ham On Rye. The title brings to mind the classic blue-collar lunchtime staple as well as being a joke about unreliable boozy narrators with bad memories.Mishka Shubaly is a 39-year-old writer and musician who is responsible for “true stories about drink, drugs, disasters, desire, deception, and their aftermath” and has been compared to Bukowski himself (most recently by his friend and one-time touring partner, the hard-drinking standup comedian Doug Stanhope). Given that his debut book, I Swear I’ll Make It Up To You, is a memoir that not only describes Shubaly’s two decades at the mercy of the bottle, but also his ultimate redemption via extreme long-distance running, I’m not sure how useful this comparison is. Biker-baiting, rum smoothies and magic mushrooms with comic Doug Stanhope But it is true that he has written a great book with a great title. Speaking in a voice that is one part rusty-nail-studded tarmac to one part engine-oil-stained sandpaper, Shubaly says: “The title is the ultimate alcoholic’s hollow apology. ‘I’m sorry I got drunk and got your car towed and then threw up all over your couch, I swear I’ll make it up to you.’”But as well as hollow platitude, the title refers to the infirmities of memory especially when it applies to writers in recovery. (For those missing the joke, Shubaly is explicit elsewhere. The prologue opens with a quote from his father, Murray: “People misremember things. Even if I remember it wrong, this is how I remember it.”)Shubaly was born in Ontario, Canada, but moved to the states when he was young because of his father’s job as a rocket scientist. He had a relatively normal childhood but can pinpoint a bleak 24-hour period in his mid-teens when his life was suddenly thrust into darkness and confusion.He was boarding at the liberal arts college known as Simon’s Rock, in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, on 14 December 1992 when there was a multiple shooting executed by his schoolmate Wayne Lo. “I was studying for my exams when I heard something that I was instantly able to identify as gunshots,” he says. “I remember hearing my classmates screaming. When the police finally arrived and Wayne Lo was taken away, he’d shot six people, killing a student and a teacher. He had enough ammunition for all of us but his cheap automatic rifle jammed. Then the next day I went home and I found out that my parents were getting divorced.“When you’re 15, it’s easy to say, ‘I’m a man so you need to treat me like a grownup.’ But I was just a kid and it was as if someone had said to me, ‘You want to be a grownup? Here you go – this is what it’s like to be a grownup.’”His slump into alcoholism, habitual narcotic use and prescription drug addiction makes up the meat of the book. He casts a forensic eye over the detritus of his life during this two-decade period – the squalid housing, the violence and the transient low-paid work. Despite all this, however, he still found time to work hard at his songwriting craft and at several points it almost looked as though he was going to make it as a musician. But he was a masterly self-saboteur, who wrecked each new opportunity in a haze of scotch, cocaine and painkillers, almost as immediately as it arose. This included a call from Doug Stanhope inviting him on tour as his opening act. But this opportunity wasn’t enough to calm his prodigious thirst and his chaotic behaviour on the road meant that after a while his phone stopped ringing. He says: “It was acutely painful when I stopped being Doug’s opener. But when you’re an alcoholic, these life-changing experiences and opportunities blow by one after the other, without actually changing anything.”Eventually at the age of 32 he realised even though he had an entrenched death wish it could be years before he managed to kill himself this way: “I understood it could take forever and before then it would sap every good thing from my life. I’d just be a body moving through life, but I would have long since ceased to be a human being. And that scared me more than dying, the idea of a living death.”Getting clean wasn’t simple and each of his three major vices – booze, prescription pills and illegal drugs – posed its own problems. “The most potent drug I was doing was Opana, a prescription painkiller,” he explains. “I didn’t have to convince myself that those pills were dangerous. I understood how bad this drug was for me. The process of coming off it made me feel like I was haunted … the seams of reality came apart. I used to live in terror of going to sleep and experiencing what my mind would spit at me.”While getting clean is hard, it’s staying sober that is the real struggle and Shubaly did it by becoming an ultrarunner – someone who undertakes 50- and 60-mile all-terrain races. It is, he admits, the million-dollar question, when asked why so many people with drink problems find the kind of peace that evaded them through their drinking years via running but says for him it’s probably nothing more complicated than replacing one form of masochism with another.Going the (long) distance: ultra-running takes off Just months sober, he published his first Kindle Single, (the self-explanatory) Shipwrecked in April 2011 – it became a runaway success. “I should say,” he laughs. “I told Amazon that the format was a stupid idea that wouldn’t work for anyone, let alone me.” He has essentially become the breakout star of this new format with subsequent titles about running, being shipwrecked and alcoholism also selling well.He sidesteps any self-analysis of this success by saying: “When you’re a dog lying on the kitchen floor and someone knocks the turkey off the platter and on to the floor, you can either sit there and try and analyse what’s going on or you can grab the turkey and try and get out of there as quickly as you can. Eat the turkey first, think about how it happened later!” But when pushed he adds: “After years of claiming the absolute opposite I guess I’ll admit that I write a good story, the kind that people find either entertaining or useful.”As with anyone who earns their living writing about themselves – even ultra-marathon running, recovering addict musicians with a history for getting shipwrecked – there is a limit on how long it remains viable. He jokes: “Right now I’m tremendously sick of this character … I’ve had it with this guy. I do hope to eventually move to fiction. There are so many other lives out there. There are so many other worlds out there. There are so many other forms of writing to explore out there.”Mishka Shubaly’s I Swear I’ll Make It Up To You is out now via Public Affairs. John Doran’s memoir about recovery from alcoholism, drug addiction and mental illness, Jolly Lad is out now via Strange Attractor 