“This is a most significant book – one that, I believe, will continue to be read years from now,” wrote Liam Halligan in the Daily Telegraph  of Mervyn King’s The End of Alchemy, in which the former governor of the Bank of England offers a highly critical analysis of modern banking and predicts that another financial crisis is imminent. “Just as it will no doubt provoke scorn from the powerful institutions King has had the audacity to challenge, so it should bring praise and gratitude from the broader public.” For Ed Conway in the Times the book was “invigorating, terrifying and occasionally even inspiring. Its analysis is stark, its conclusions bold.” In the Independent, Ben Chu  commended the “depth of King’s thinking” but argued that “his suggested real world reforms feel rather undercooked … the agenda many clear-thinking politicians and analysts have been pushing for years, with virtually no success”. David Smith, writing in the Sunday Times, was the most critical, finding that “King has brought into the mainstream theories about money and banking that used to be confined to the wilder fringes of the internet.” In the Financial Times, however, John Plender wrote that King is “entitled to say we have been warned. Those who do not agree with his recommendations will still have to concede that this book is an outstandingly lucid account of post-war economic policymaking and the dilemmas we now face … a dazzling performance indeed.”In the Sunday Times, Ian Critchley praised Uprooted, Nina Lyon’s exploration of the mythical Green Man, as a “quirky but engaging book … Ultimately the book is less about the Green Man and more about the author’s search for meaning in her life. It could have become unbearably self-indulgent, but Lyon is a witty and insightful writer and her account is filled with self-deprecating charm.” In the New Statesman Paul Kingsnorth wanted more of the Green Man himself: “I could happily read 300 pages on the history of the Green Man, and I would like to know more about him than this book tells me.” However, he described the book as “an unusual, digressive and timely piece of writing that pulls on many threads, sometimes too many at once, but which ends up weaving them into a unique pattern”. For Melissa Harrison in the Financial Times, there is “a delightfully dry humour that runs throughout”, but “often, too much ground is covered too fast and without reference to the book’s central argument”.Javier Marías: a life in writing In their reviews of Thus Bad Begins, a novel examining the aftermath of the Spanish civil war by Javier Marías, several critics lumbered the author with the rather intimidatinglabel of “Spain’s greatest living novelist”. But “do not be disheartened” advised Siobhan Murphy in the Times, as “he manages to tread the tightrope between a very literary fiction and an utterly absorbing plot … a novel that teases, tantalises and entertains and is easily as engrossing as anything he’s written before”. For Tim Martin in the Daily Telegraph, “the light-heartedness of this novel is skin-deep. Its themes of self-inspection and self-revision, where truth and discovery are evaded, undermined and subverted, mean that its dark secrets billow, its unspeakables amplify – and its strange, mannered dread-laden atmosphere haunts the reader until the final page.” But in the Observer, Robert McCrum argued that the book “will mean a lot to Spanish readers but … from an Anglo-Saxon perspective, might seem underwhelming”. The problem, he wrote, is that it is “far too long … countless elegant, serpentine sentences, meditative passages mixed with provocative paradoxes, but not enough substance”.