After two attempts to bring classic British comic character Judge Dredd to the big screen, the publishers of 2000AD have decided that the only way to properly adapt the leather-clad lawman of a dystopian future is to do it themselves.The game developer and comics publisher Rebellion, which bought the title in the year 2000, is creating a TV series called Judge Dredd: Mega-City One. The project is still in its early stages, with no director or cast yet in place, but fans are hoping the square-jawed judge, jury and executioner who patrols the future-shocked streets of the 22nd century will finally get the adaptation he deserves.While 1995’s Judge Dredd movie, starring Sylvester Stallone, had something of the look of the comics, it was roundly derided for missing the mark. And when Karl Urban went under the helmet in 2012’s Dredd – staying true to the original by keeping it on at all times (unlike Stallone) – he found more favour with fans, but both movies failed to tap into the sharp, satirical humour that has fuelled the character since his introduction in the second issue of 2000AD in 1977.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Judgment reserved ... Sylvester Stallone as Judge Dredd. Photograph: Allstar/BUENA VISTA/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarDredd was created by the writer John Wagner and the artist Carlos Ezquerra, unleashing a character loosely based on Clint Eastwood’s Dirty Harry on the remains of the eastern US after an apocalyptic war. He was an instant hit, riding around the monstrous Mega-City One on his Lawmaster bike, dispensing justice to a parade of grotesque “perps” with his Lawgiver gun.40 years of 2000AD: looking back on the future of comic books According to Jason Kingsley, who runs Rebellion with his brother Chris, it’s time for a screen Dredd to be done right at last.“The films didn’t tackle the satire very well,” Kingsley says, “but in the TV series we’re certainly going to be giving that a good try”. In the past they’ve licensed characters to other people, he continued, letting them “have fun with our toys. But we have so many people wanting to play with our toys now we thought: ‘Let’s do this ourselves.’ As Rebellion Productions we will put a studio together, and pull together the cast and crew. It’s very exciting but also a bit nerve-racking.”Rebellion has teamed up with IM Global Television to look for big-budget commitments from networks in North America and Europe, with Kingsley aiming to be “well above” the £1m an hour budget a major TV show demands. “If everything goes according to plan, we’re going to make one of the most expensive TV shows the UK has ever seen.”While Judge Dredd will get top billing, the series is due to explore a broader canvas, Kingsley adds, bringing the city and its sprawling cast of characters to life. “We want to capture the atmosphere of Dredd, we want all the crazy fashions and the kneepads. We’re not going for comedy but there will be moments of light and dark, just like in the comics.”In the longer term, Rebellion has ambitions to develop screen adaptations of other 2000AD stories, as well as video game properties including Sniper Elite and titles from their science fiction imprints Abaddon and Solaris.So given a hypothetical unlimited budget tomorrow, who else would Kingsley get on the starting blocks for a 2000AD-based TV series? “Good question, and one that we’ve discussed at length. It’s a classic pub conversation!” he says. “So … well, Rogue Trooper, obviously, and Strontium Dog, and definitely Absalom”.