Less than a quarter of Americans support a boycott of the Oscars over the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ failure to nominate any actors of colour for the second year running, according to a new poll.Just 23% of respondents to a survey by Reuters said they backed calls for viewers to “tune out” from the world’s most famous film ceremony this year, which will take place at the Dolby theatre in Los Angeles on 28 February. Spike Lee, Will Smith, Jada Pinkett Smith, Tyrese Gibson and Michael Moore are among the notable figures who have called for a boycott or signalled that they will be staying away in protest.Reuters’ poll found that 44% of Americans disagreed with the idea of a boycott. However, the same proportion of respondents (44%) said they believed studios had a problem with minorities, and 30% said that Hollywood’s output does not accurately represent US diversity.Reuters and Ipsos polled 2,423 people online, three weeks after the Academy’s announcement of changes to membership rules, including proposals to double the number of voters from black or ethnic minority backgrounds. Producers promise 'most diverse Oscars ever' - nominations aside Oscars organisers have promised the 2016 ceremony will be the “most diverse ever”. The actor Morgan Freeman and musician John Legend, both past winners, yesterday joined a list of presenters that already included the musician, composer and producer Quincy Jones, the Django Unchained star Kerry Washington, Indian-born actor Priyanka Chopra, and South Korea’s Lee Byung-hun.Meanwhile, a separate survey revealed that women have been nominated for just 19% of all non-acting Oscar prizes over the past 10 years. The Women’s Media Center (WMC) poll also found that not a single woman has been nominated for the best cinematography Oscar in the past decade, and only one woman (2010 winner Kathryn Bigelow, for The Hurt Locker) has been nominated for best director.Female film producers do better, having received 24% of previous Oscar nominations for best picture. Women have been nominated for 13% of the original and best adapted screenplay prizes.“There is a clear connection between the low numbers of women hired for behind-the-scenes jobs in film and women’s low representation among Oscar nominees,” said WMC president Julie Burton. “If they’re not hired in these non-acting categories, they’ll never have a chance to be recognised for their excellence. Research by the Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film shows that, of the 250 top-grossing films of 2015, women [made up] 9% of directors, 11% of writers, 20% of executive producers, 26% of producers, 22% of editors and only 6% of cinematographers. If more women were hired as writers, directors, editors and producers, the talent pool for nominations would be more reflective of the overall population and audience — more than half of which are women.”