Twelve years is an uncomfortable length of time in fashion. Long enough ago to feel outdated, but not quite long enough for nostalgia to erase embarrassment. It’s like bumping into a friend you haven’t seen since that time a few months ago when you bumped into them and made vague plans to get together which you never followed up on. If you could avoid them for another few years, you could be long-lost soulmates, but for now it’s just a bit awks.So next month’s almost-reunion of the cast of Friends, who will appear together in NBC’s tribute to director James Burrows, doubtless won’t get the style fanfare it deserves. But, no matter that Perry has thrown the symmetry off by being unable to attend – typical, can you BE any more Chandler? – this should be, if there was any justice in the world, an all-time Fashion Moment. Sex and the City, which, like Friends, left the small screen in 2004, gets all the airtime for being the iconic style show of its era. But it was Rachel and her floppy-shiny-haired crew who truly defined not just what to wear in the 90s, but what to wear as a grownup in a post-business-suit world.The very thing that was brilliant about Friends is what holds it back from being given its style dues. It was never, ever cool. There was no coolness, no distance between the show and the audience. Sex and the City was all Cosmopolitans and bar stools, but while Monica’s gang were in their 20s, their social life was closer to The Golden Girls’ than to Carrie Bradshaw’s. Even Friends’ most iconic look, the Rachel haircut, based its appeal on being an everywoman cut, a style everyone could and did emulate with the help of a high-street salon and some hair straighteners.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Aniston as Rachel – withthat haircut. Photograph: NBC via Getty ImagesWe loved Friends for making adult life look unintimidating. The characters were not dropouts or rebels, but neither were they high-flyers or industry trailblazers. Before normcore was a thing, they were just normal. This, as the theme tune put it, was a life lived in second gear. To go to work, the boys just buttoned up the oversized Gap shirts they wore loose over a T-shirt to Central Perk, and swapped the jeans for chinos. “Layering” did not mean poring over the Gucci catwalk photos for inspiration for ingenious new colour combinations, it just meant wearing a cardigan. It was the perfect style formula for an era that championed what the costume designer of Oscar-contender, about-to-be-released Spotlight, set in a newspaper office in 2001, calls “unthought about” clothes. Not thinking about clothes was big, in those days. (See: “Dress-down Friday.”)Even Rachel, the Hot Girl of the show, was muted. For someone who apparently worked in the New York fashion industry, she spent a lot of time in tartan pyjama bottoms. Jennifer Aniston played down her movie-star looks, and pulled off the unlucky-in-love girl-next-door role so well that after Friends ended, and she started wearing wall-to-wall red-carpet frocks, Aniston was still endlessly condescended to as Poor Jen by audiences, who could not stop viewing her through the prism of dorky Rachel, with her nervous-tic hair tucking.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Aniston, Matt LeBlanc, David Schwimmer, Lisa Kudrow, Matthew Perry and Courteney Cox in Friends. Photograph: APIf the impact of Friends was merely ironic, just a tongue-in-cheek reference for hipsters doing normcore, its status as just a fashion footnote would be right and proper. But it’s not. It may be insufficiently edgy to get the inspiration namechecks at fashion week that go to Blade Runner, Bonnie and Clyde, Grey Gardens, and the rest, but the Friends look is still powerful. Not least in Silicon Valley, where the Monica’s Sofa Look – college sport sweatshirts, plaid shirts, grey marl – lives on in Zuckerberg and his countless mini-mes. As does, indeed, drinking cereal-bowl sized mugs of milky coffee, in offices everywhere. And while I doubt JW Anderson would thank me for tracing the gender-neutral aesthetic back to Joey Tribbiani, if you watch the show now you notice how remarkably similar the fabrics, colours and styles are between the male and female characters. Rachel and Joey wear T-shirts or sporty tank tops; Monica and Chandler wear shirts and sensible knitwear. Joey had a man bag in 1998 and got his eyebrows waxed in 2003. Could you BE any more ahead of the curve?