Let’s get one thing straight: MTV Classic does not play music videos. The criticism that MTV, the cable channel formerly known as Music Television, doesn’t even play any music has lasted more than half of the 35 years it has been on air, an anniversary it celebrated on Monday by turning the former VH1 Classic, which focused on classic rock and hits of the 70s and 80s, into MTV Classic.The new channel, like a good BuzzFeed list, is preoccupied with preserving everything Gen Xers and millennials loved about the 90s and 00s. Yes, that era is well after the channel eschewed the visual oeuvre of Duran Duran for reality shows like The Real World, Pimp My Ride, Cribs and other non-music-related programming. The first day of programming on MTV Classic started off with MTV Hour One, a special that replayed the first hour of the channel complete with commercials for Chewels (a gum with a liquid center), Mountain Dew and other confections. The music videos included hits by Rod Stewart, the Pretenders and the Who, but also tracks from acts never to be heard from again, such as PhD, Robin Lane and the Chartbusters and Split Enz (to be fair, the latter band did morph into Crowded House). The whole thing was terribly quaint, from the way the VJs were obsessed with the fact that it was being broadcast in stereo, to its telling viewers who wanted an “MTV dial sticker” that they could get one by sending a self-addressed stamped envelope to an actual physical PO Box.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The next hour was given over to The TRL Decade, a documentary about Total Request Live, the staple that ran from 1998 to 2008 and was dominated by Britney Spears, NSync, hip-hop and a future reality show host by the name of Carson Daly. While it was nice to chart the rise, fall and influence of this undeniable pop behemoth, it would have been even better just to watch an episode of TRL from the late 90s and laugh at the music, hair and whatever dumb turtleneck Daly was sure to have on.The rest of the day was dominated by replays of Unplugged, MTV’s groundbreaking show that got bands to play their hits on acoustic instruments. The channel is resurrecting the series later this year with modern acts. I rewatched the most famous episode of all, Nirvana Unplugged, which was filmed about six months before Kurt Cobain’s suicide and went into heavy rotation on the channel after his death. I’ve watched this special countless times, flipping around the dial aimlessly after high school looking for something to watch and landing on this so often. It was just as remarkable as I remembered it, each song howling like a dirge, sublime not only because it was so close to the end, but because Cobain and company were creating such raw, emotional magic. But it was also different. Cobain was so much more handsome than I remembered; he looks so young in his fuzzy green sweater cradling his guitar so delicately. When it aired in 1994, I was 10 years younger than Cobain and he seemed like such a grown-up. Now I’m 10 years older; he seems like such a baby, and his death so much more tragic. Nirvana Unplugged was always imbued with a sense of loss, but now it wasn’t just the loss of genius wasted, but the loss of my own youth, driving around my hometown wearing out the cassette of the broadcast in the car stereo. I was transported back immediately not just to the music, but to the memory and the emotions, like Proust’s madeleines dunked in Pennyroyal Tea.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The funny thing about MTV Classic, though, is that most of it doesn’t really hold up, and I’m not just talking about the Backstreet Boys’ ridiculous outfits on TRL. MTV’s groundbreaking 90s animation, such as Daria, Beavis and Butt-head and Aeon Flux – all of which aired later in the evening – inevitably don’t seem remotely revolutionary now. In between two programming blocks, there was just enough time to air a Limp Bizkit video, which reminded me that, contrary to what the internet will lead you to believe, not everything from the 90s needs to be brought back and re-experienced. The strangest thing about MTV Classic is that it’s not only celebrating a bygone era, but seems linked to a bygone way of consuming television. Back in the day, if I was sitting and aimlessly looking for a way to pass 30 minutes and came across an episode of The Real World, Jon Stewart’s old talk show or the game show Remote Control (oh please, MTV Classic, I’m dying to see Remote Control!) I would stop and watch it. But I never do that anymore, and I have a feeling that most people in the on-demand age don’t either. We now watch the shows clogging our DVRs or find something to stream on Netflix, Hulu or any of the other services, all of which have vast libraries of content. There is so much out that that instead of trying to stumble upon things by happenstance, we search them out with surgical precision. For those that really want to scratch an itch, MTV has tons of its archive online already (including all the episodes of Daria). What do we need MTV Classic for? So that we can teach the next generation what Jenny McCarthy looked like on Singled Out before she went crazy and decided that vaccines are killing our children? I’m not saying I will never be tempted to relive my teen years with some well-curated nostalgia bait – just that I don’t know if I’ll come across it like I used to, hoping for some music videos but being sucked in by a Real World: Boston marathon instead. 