Brexit: A Very British Coup? 9pm, BBC2Ah, Brexit, the gift that keeps on giving, with endless, maddeningly balanced BBC documentaries about its dismal, meandering fallout. Still, at least we got our country back. Here’s the behind-the-scenes story of the Leave campaign and its chief “architects”, featuring previously unseen footage of “ambition, passion, and strategy”. Alternatively: a cavalcade of nonsense, xenophobia and utter incompetence. Ali CatterallParanoid 9pm, ITV Things have been looking up for ITV drama in the past couple of years, and the new, spooky Paranoid looks as if it could well join the likes of Grantchester and Broadchurch in the ranks of recent hits. When a GP is killed in a local park, it opens up a case more far-reaching than it at first appears. Robert Glenister excels as panic-prone detective Bobby Day, who isn’t exaggerating when he says he thinks there’s someone watching the investigation. Good stuff. John RobinsonHunted 9pm, Channel 4A new series of the compulsively watchable pursuit show starts with 10 “fugitives” legging it from central Birmingham to the four corners of the country with former police and special forces folk on their trail, and a £100,000 prize at stake. Anna and Elizabeth are planning to hitch their way to obscurity but the hunters are soon on to them, as are those tailing an amusingly hapless pair of army veterans. (Google “ghillie suit” for an idea of their tactics.) Ben ArnoldSuspended: Britain’s Pay Scandal? Tonight 7.30pm, ITV Every year, hundreds of public sector employees are suspended on full pay. There may, of course, be good reasons why people take an enforced break (eg, while allegations against them are investigated). Nonetheless, it’s the taxpayer who picks up the bill, and in the case of senior staff the cost can be considerable. Utilising freedom of information legislation to learn more, Jonathan Maitland and the Tonight team investigate. Jonathan WrightThe Doctor Who Gave Up Drugs 9pm, BBC1 Conclusion of Dr Chris Van Tulleken’s attempt to demonstrate that GPs are too swift to prescribe drugs that aren’t really necessary. Van Tulleken – one of the medic twins responsible for terrific kids’ show Operation Ouch! – makes his case by taking over part of a GP surgery, and weaning patients off repeat prescriptions. Among his suggestions: that people taking pills to prevent heart attacks try taking a walk instead. Andrew MuellerRed Dwarf 9pm, DaveThe underrated sci-fi sitcom returns for an 11th series, recorded – as in days gone by – in front of a studio audience. It wastes no time beaming its maladjusted away team of slob (Craig Charles), hologram (Chris Barrie), feline (Danny John-Jules) and robo-drudge (Robert Llewellyn) to an alternate United States where prohibition cracks down on science rather than booze. That means Bugsy Malone dress-up, rapid-fire physics gags and Kevin Eldon as a gossipy Borg. Graeme VirtueA League Of Their Own 9pm, Sky1 From duetting with Michelle Obama to watching Freddie Flintoff neck a raw egg: this is quite the welcome home for James Corden. But US talkshow duties haven’t dampened his enthusiasm for hosting this sporting panel show. As a new series kicks off, Jamie Redknapp is joined on his team by Roisin Conaty and Rob Beckett, while Flintoff is flanked by regular panellist Jack Whitehall and IBF heavyweight champ Anthony Joshua. Mark Gibbings-JonesFilm choiceMad Max 2 (George Miller, 1981) 9pm, TCMMore money is involved in this sequel – they surely couldn’t have done it any cheaper than the original adventures of Max Rockatansky – and it’s money well spent. The outback clashes for scarce oil between medieval-looking bikers and Mel Gibson’s leather-clad, post-nuclear hero, done with great verve, energy and gallows humour. Paul HowlettLive sportBetfred Cup Football: Aberdeen v St Johnstone Action from the quarter-final tie at Pittodrie (kick-off 7.45pm). 7.15pm, BT Sport 1Super League Top-flight rugby league action from the Super 8s stage. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1NFL: New England Patriots v Houston Texans Coverage of the AFC clash at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts. 1.30am, Sky Sports 1