CatastropheSharon Horgan and Rob Delaney return – with their startling comic chemistry still very much intact – for more marvellously dysfunctional parenting. A touch of added poignancy this time: the series wrapped shortly before the sad passing of Carrie Fisher. Enjoy her turn as Rob’s waspish mother Mia for one last time.Tuesday, 10pm, Channel 4TabooThe compelling if divisive historical drama concludes. Tom Hardy’s disreputable Delaney is charged with treason and tortured at the Tower. How can he possibly bring his plans to fruition? He’s Tom Hardy: he’ll find a way.Saturday, 9.15pm, BBC1The Nightly Show With David Walliams      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Life chats … David Walliams. Photograph: Joel AndersonExpect intense and undiluted flamboyance as David Walliams is given free rein in this new shiny-floor extravaganza stripped across the week. Expect comedy monologues, games, guests, video clips and generally plenty of hyperactive fun.Monday, 10pm, ITVRoots revival: how does the new Kunta Kinte compare to the classic? RootsThis affecting and accomplished remake of Alex Haley’s slavery epic concludes. Chicken George finally returns from England and attempts to track down his long-lost family. Inevitably, unpleasant surprises await him, not least the advent of civil war.Wednesday, 9pm, BBC4Stacey Dooley InvestigatesBBC3’s tireless documentary maker returns – this time exploring disturbing attitudes towards underage sex in Japan.From Tuesday, BBC3Broadchurch      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Look who washed up ... Olivia Colman and David Tennant in Broadchurch. Photograph: Colin HuttonYet more bother for the most troubled seaside town in Britain. After the murders of the first two seasons, there’s a serious sexual assault to contend with this time. Although we wouldn’t bet against another murder in due course. DI Hardy (David Tennant) and DS Miller (Olivia Colman) join forces once again as they return to the scene of old crimes.Monday, 9pm, ITVExtremely British MuslimsBoasting rare access to the inner workings of Birmingham Central Mosque, this new series offers a nuanced insight into British Muslim life. This week, we begin with love and marriage: how do the expectations of traditionally minded community elders co-exist with the more liberal desires of younger Muslims?Thursday, 10pm, Channel 4The ReplacementWorkplace intrigue in this tense new drama. When architect Ellen (Morven Christie) becomes pregnant, her company hires Paula (Vicky McClure) to hold the fort. But Paula’s ambitions stretch well beyond providing a few months of maternity cover.Tuesday, 9pm, BBC1Imagine: Maya Angelou – And Still I Rise      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An extraordinary life ... Maya Angelou. Photograph: Wayne Miller MagnumIt feels like an understatement to describe Maya Angelou’s life as extraordinary. From poverty, abuse and prostitution to familiarity with presidents and worldwide renown as a poet, activist and memoirist, she travelled remarkable distances in her 86 years. Oddly, this is the first major documentary to explore her life – and it’s safe to say that there’s plenty to get through.Tuesday, 10.45pm, BBC1TakenTurns out there was good reason for Bryan Mills’s ferocity in the 2008 film. This prequel series tells Mills’s grim origin story.From Tuesday, Amazon Prime