Though there are many brilliant lines in Maggie Nelson’s The Argonauts, said critic Wayne Koestenbaum, this one especially jumped out at him: “You’re a great student because you don’t have any baggage, a teacher once told me, at which point the subterfuge of my life felt complete.”“That was me, wasn’t it?” Koestenbaum asked Nelson on Wednesday night, speaking at the New York Public Library. “Ever since I read the book in pre-galley I thought: ‘Wow, why did I say that, what did I mean?’”Koestenbaum and Nelson have known each once since “the 20th century, when neither of us had email” and when Nelson was Koestenbaum’s student at the City University of New York. At Live from the NYPL, the two discussed how someone with “no baggage” ended up writing two books about her aunt’s murder, purported differences in their temperaments, and how the highly acclaimed Argonauts — a mix of memoir, criticism, and theory about “small, miraculous domestic dramas” — came to be.“Since writing it, people often ask me, ‘from a feminist standpoint, how did you feel about writing that birth story since it’s been done so many times before?’” said Nelson. “And I respond, ‘Where? Show me.’ There are really only two birth accounts and everything else is a third-party, fictionalized account.”Maggie Nelson interview: ‘People write to me to let me know that, in case I missed it, there are only two genders’ But what really happened was less analytical and more born out of annoyance. She had been a visiting writer “in one of those dismal cottages that have three books”, one of which happened to be an anthology with a Phillip Lopate story about giving birth. “It got under my skin,” Nelson adds. “It was like, ‘Goddamnit, if he could write this story, then I could write it from a first-person perspective. That’s in the best American nonfiction? I could do that too!’ So I sat down and gave it a shot.”For all the praise her books have received, including the National Book Critics Circle award for The Argonauts, Nelson is sensitive to the “very boring, very strange” label of being the author of three memoirs. She would have been dismayed to hear that she’d write a book about maternity, and once told poet Eileen Myles that she just didn’t want to write the “family story” that became the books about her aunt Jane. It was only when Myles asked how she could not write about her aunt being killed that Nelson felt what she calls the kaleidoscope shift of realizing that writing about these deeply personal topics was the way to go.So she agrees when Koestenbaum amends his comment, having since realized that her work, “far from having no baggage, is entirely dominated by baggage”. Yet he stands by one part of his original comment: that there is no baggage, or false complication and intellectual laziness, in how she approaches her subjects.“We’re all people and our baggage makes our writing autobiographical, but the important thing is that whatever baggage you have from your life that you bring to intellectual scenarios is not going to keep you from being able to focus on the intellectual work being done,” said Nelson. Her books are highly intellectual and, though she doesn’t like to do so, can be flattened into academic “thesis-like statements”. Red Parts, covering her aunt’s murder, is about “how social justice and emotional justice is not the same as criminal justice”. The Argonauts explores “what living or feeling or being would be if caretaking and freedom weren’t put on opposite ends of the binary”.The Argonauts by Maggie Nelson review – ‘one of the sharpest thinkers of her generation’ Koestenbaum’s life wasn’t marked by murder like Nelson’s, but he does have an interest in death which is tied to his experience of writing. “I feel dead,” he said. “Even though writing is the thing that makes me feel most alive, it makes me feel dead too. The procedure of writing is to inject excitement.” Koestenbaum turns projects like his study of Harpo Marx almost into performance pieces, driven by a desire for “mental claustrophobia”. He becomes the experiment, making himself annotate everything Harpo did “even though it courts inanity and idiocy, even if it’s not the right way to do things.” Koestenbaum wondered if this is a temperamental difference that makes him more prone to a compulsive masochism while Nelson is more lucid.She’s not so sure. Perhaps she doesn’t share the same compulsions, but each book “always invokes a kind of shadow feeling or topic that you might not have been aware of when you go to town on one idea.” Nelson said that that is a type of mental claustrophobia, or baggage, in its own right. The motif of freedom, for example, started becoming apparent when she was writing The Art of Cruelty and bled into The Argonauts as well.“With each new project, I rarely swing around on a vine to a new forest – usually there’s some problem or interest that developed out of the last book,” Nelson said, and so freedom may well be the focus of her next work. This interest is especially strong around election season, with all the questions about political freedom, intellectual freedom. “It never ceases to amaze me how we shortchange ourselves on that account,” she said.