Joe Berlinger and Tony Robbins are a curious pairing, and not just because at 6ft 7in, Robbins resembles a superhero standing next to his friend and collaborator.Berlinger is an activist and award-winning documentary film-maker. His Paradise Lost trilogy, shot over two decades, led to the release of the West Memphis Three after more than 20 years of wrongful imprisonment for the supposedly satanically inspired murder of three boys. In his 2009 documentary Crude, Berlinger took on the Chevron Corporation while investigating the story behind the world’s largest oil-related environmental lawsuit, which landed him in hot water.Robbins is America’s most famous and successful motivational speaker, best known for empowering CEOs and lending support to a roster of famous clients that include Hugh Jackman, Julianne Hough and singer Melissa Etheridge. Most recently, he caused controversy after 30 attendees of his Unleash the Power Within event in Dallas, Texas, were treated for burns after walking across hot coals – a regular feature of his popular seminars. The act is meant to symbolize overcoming fear.Tony Robbins event attendees burned after walking on hot coals The pair’s collaboration, Tony Robbins: I am Not Your Guru, doesn’t have the fiery tone of Berlinger’s most celebrated work. It’s not even a biopic of Robbins, tracking his rise to Oprah Winfrey-level fame. Instead, Berlinger has made what he says is “almost like a concert film of human emotion”. In it, the film-maker lets us inside a hotel ballroom in Palm Springs, California, to track six days and nights inside Robbins’ mega annual seminar, Date With Destiny. The two-hour film grants audiences never-before-seen access to Robbins’ workshop, which draws more than 2,500 people a year.“My goal in making it is not to have people run out and sign up for Tony Robbins seminars,” affirms Berlinger. “My goal is for people to spend two hours to do something we all don’t do enough: think about the direction and quality of your own life.”In essence, Berlinger – chatty and excitable in person – has made his first feel-good film. It’s a charge he’s more than happy to own up to. After making what he describes as “hard, tough films about tough subjects”, Berlinger says he was ready to “use the documentary form in a different way”.He came to this realization while serving on a jury for a documentary film festival in Europe, where he recalls spending a week watching films about campus rape, corporate pollution and political scandals. Says Berlinger: “I remember thinking to myself: this is what documentary has generally become. People think of documentaries know as investigative take-down pieces of the latest social ill. I’ve made many of those films.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Berlinger arrived at the subject of his new film after being bowled over by Robbins’ teachings during a Date With Destiny retreat that he was initially reluctant to attend. The pair had been introduced in 2012 through a mutual friend. Robbins confessed himself a huge fan of Berlinger’s Metallica documentary, Metallica: This Monster Lives and a connection was struck. “It made sense,” says Berlinger. “The documentary is about therapy, relationships, and the vicissitudes of fortune – things that resonate with what Tony’s about.”Berlinger confesses to knowing Robbins only superficially as a TV presence prior to their first encounter – and “that guy who had a cameo in Shallow Hal”.That didn’t stop Robbins from inviting Berlinger to take part in the week-long workshop for free (normally, it costs participants $5,000), probably sensing what Berlinger describes as a “childhood issues” that were welling up at the time. Setback for Chevron in attempts to seize Crude outtakes from Joe Berlinger “I was turning 50,” says Berlinger. “My personal life is great. And yet professionally, I was hitting 50 and realizing I’m never happy, I’m never satisfied. I’m always just onto the next. That’s generally what it was about: a lack of gratitude for my life.” Berlinger says he fled for the exit doors during the first group break, reluctant to open up with strangers he’d been paired with. In hindsight, he now says, the experience was touching a “raw nerve”, that only further emphasized why he made the trek from New York to California. Berlinger was finally hooked by the guided memory exercise – whereby participants are challenged to remember a key point from a critical early childhood memory that they think they might have forgotten. “I went through this experience in a room of 2,500 people, opened my eyes and was flooded with tears,” says Berlinger. “It’s not like the angels came out and I was healed – it just was a feeling of lightness. I felt like, wow, if something can make me feel this way, even for five minutes, there’s something here that I’d like to continue to explore. So I stuck it out for the six days and found it to be an incredibly transformational experience.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony Robbins: I Am Not Your Guru takes the format of a concert film. Photograph: NetflixWhen Berlinger suggested making a film about Robbins, the motivational speaker balked. Robbins says he had been approached in the past “multiple times” by film-makers wanting to profile him, something he has “no interest in.”“I’m not interested about Tony Robbins,” he bellows down the phone. “I’m interested in people seeing other people change.” Robbins says he couldn’t imagine how the six-day workshop could be distilled into a two-hour feature, without trivializing or misrepresenting the content of the conference. He was also concerned about interfering with the attendees’ experience. Berlinger asked Robbins to watch Paradise Lost, which condenses the West Memphis Three’s six-week murder trial into a single hour. “I captured the emotional essence of what those trials were about,” says Berlinger. He stressed that the documentary would take on the format of a concert film, which won Robbins over.“I’m not here to tell people what to believe,” Robbins explains. “A concert film puts people in the experience and lets them judge it for themselves.” He eventually came around to Berlinger’s proposal, with one caveat: that he have the power to shut down production on the documentary at any point during filming. Berlinger agreed, on the condition that Robbins would compensate him for the expenses incurred should he be forced to abandon the best, and that Robbins had no authority to interfere with the final cut of the film, should it be completed. Robbins shoots down the notion that part of him agreed to let Berlinger document his seminar in an effort to quell his many detractors, who take issues with his financial strategies and heated approach to life coaching. “You’re never going to convince a cynic,” says Robbins. “There are too many that want help to worry about those that don’t.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I Am Not Your Guru: ‘an immersive drop into the world’ of a Robbins seminar. Photograph: Netflix“I don’t have the delusion that my way is the right way,” he adds. “It’s just a good way for someone who is hungry and driven and wants to go full force. It’s right for some people and not for others.”The Oscar race for best documentary is on – here are the early contenders The film, which was eventually acquired by Netflix and is now available to stream, was criticised following its world premiere at the SXSW film festival in March by reviewers who accused Berlinger of essentially making a promotional film. “Clearly an authorized project, it never leaves [Robbins’] perspective,” wrote Indiewire’s Eric Kohn in one of several negative reviews.Berlinger defends his approach, stressing that being a concert film, Tony Robbins: I Am Not Your Guru is at its core “an immersive drop into the world” of a Robbins seminar.“In a concert film, the film-maker isn’t going to say that the drummer is having an affair with the lead singer,” says Berlinger. “Or hey, that guitar line is much better in the studio album than in this live version. No – in a concert film, you’re experiencing the concert. You can think what you want.”