A confessional show about sexual assault, a puppet writing a novel and a record-breaking fifth consecutive nomination for James Acaster all feature in the shortlist for the annual Edinburgh comedy award. Eight shows compete for the prestigious prize, known as “the Oscars of comedy”. The winner will be announced this Saturday.The favourite is bound to be micro-observationalist Acaster, nominated for his show about honey-selling scams, Brexit and starting life over, entitled Reset. Having been a runner-up every year since 2012, the Kettering man is unlikely to be subjected by the judges to another near-miss. Other front-runners include Kieran Hodgson, whose show Maestro is about his love of Mahler and his effort to write a symphony, and Nish Kumar, whose political piece includes a routine about a racist heckle he received after the EU referendum. Both Hodgson and Kumar were also nominated in 2015.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nish Kumar: What can a satirist do with our post-truth politics?The most eye-catching nominee is the Fife comic Richard Gadd, overlooked for his extraordinary stunt-comedy show Waiting for Gaddot last year. His new set – in which he dramatises his struggle to come to terms with a sexual assault he experienced four years ago – treads a fine line between comedy and traumatised confessional: an unusually near-the-knuckle nomination for a prize that tends to reward commercial potential.The other nominees are Al Porter, a 23-year-old Dubliner described by one critic as “a throwback” – albeit a knowing one – to “the sort of screamingly queer comedy icons of yesteryear”; Australian Tom Ballard, nominated as best newcomer last year and back with another hour of socio-political comedy; and Randy Writes a Novel, in which Aussie Heath McIvor’s animated felt alter ego keeps failing to read extracts from his earnest new work of fiction.Completing a trio of Australians on the shortlist, Zoe Coombs Marr is the only female act nominated – and even she dressed as a man to get there. Her show Trigger Warning won the Barry award at the Melbourne Comedy festival in April, from which springboard her compatriot Sam Simmons went on to win last year’s Edinburgh gong. Trigger Warning reacquaints us with her alter ego Dave, an old-school sexist standup now experiencing full-blown existential meltdown after failing to retrain as a clown.Edinburgh comedy awards: explore all the winners – interactive The best newcomer list – last year’s winner was Danish comic Sofie Hagen – features US comic and new Daily Show star Michelle Wolf and New Act of the Year 2016 champ Bilal Zafar (with a prank-show about online Islamophobia), alongside ex-Funny Women award-winner Jayde Adams, Glaswegian Scott Gibson, Aussie Nath Valvo and Mancunian Brennan Reece.In a year when more reputations have been consolidated than made, there are few conspicuous omissions from the list – although they include a second snub (after Dracula in 2014) for Nick Mohammed’s alter ego Mr Swallow, whose faux-musical about Houdini is one of the most incontrovertibly hilarious hours in town. In his absence, I’d guess it’s Acaster’s year, for a show that’s not quite up to the giddying standard of its two predecessors. But it’s still excellent, and few would begrudge the award to a man who now holds the clear record for nominations in the prize’s 35-year history.The shortlist is selected by a panel chaired by Alice Jones, arts editor of the i, and comprising journalists, industry figures and members of the public. Previous winners of the award include Frank Skinner, The League of Gentlemen and Bridget Christie. Formerly known as the Perrier award, it is now sponsored by lastminute.com.