Doon Mackichan has just moved to Hastings with her third child, the only one left young enough – at 12 – to make move places with you. She lives in dinky, seaside-Regency elegance, and I keep expecting something dark and unexpected, like a wolf, to lope in. Mackichan is a true original, subversive, very fast and witty, slightly surreal, with a straight-backed gangly mien, like a teenage clown.Something as normal as a sofa just seems too normal, yet here we are on a sofa, discussing her recent documentary for Radio 4, Body Count Rising, a profound, textured, definitive consideration of violence against women on television – what it does to the viewer, the actor and the culture. “I was getting really quite angry about what I was watching,” she says. “I hadn’t been involved in anything since I was at uni: Reclaim the Night, shaved head, monkey boots, nought-to-60 radicalisation in about two weeks.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mackichan on the Hastings funicular. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianIt was a great time to be at uni, says the actor, who studied drama at Manchester. “When I finished, I joined Violence Against Women in London. We used to meet at the Embankment and graffiti at night.” (I actually remember their graffiti. On a bridge in Wandsworth, in huge white letters, it said: “Women say NO to male violence.” And underneath, smaller, it said: “Men say no to graffiti.” This was back in the day, when funny people were serious and serious things were funny.)The sight of “porn bleeding into entertainment”, “women being pulled by their hair down the stairs, followed, raped” galvanised her, and the documentary did the same for me. “The bit that people mention,” she says, “is an interview with an actress about what it’s like to film a rape scene. She’s done two and she’s only 27.” The testimony was striking and the conclusions irresistible: it’s not nothing, to have to do this for your job. It is a failure of compassion, collective and individual, that prime time relies so heavily on brutalising young women, make-believe or not. “And I’m worried about 14 or 15-year olds who are watching Game of Thrones. What would it feel like to watch men and boys being raped the whole time? They just wouldn’t watch it.” In the interests of devil’s advocacy, I point out that Theon gets his dick cut off. “That’s a one-off. If it were most of the time, they’d feel like we do most of the time: profoundly exhausted and deflated by the whole experience.” Mackichan’s CV is short on sexual violence. “I would go up for dramas and say, ‘Why is there nudity in this?’ and then not get the part. I remember directors looking crestfallen, ‘Oh really, poor you for being so repressed.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘She drinks too much, she’s a hysteric’ … Mackichan as Cathy in Two Doors Down.The show we should be talking about is Two Doors Down. About to start its second series, this endearing, ensemble BBC comedy about a set of Scottish neighbours has something-for-everyone humour, sometimes a bit random, always very warm. She plays Cathy, “channelling a lot of women in my life. The panic, which is all around me now, with the menopause, and people so terrified about having perfect faces, the obsession with looking good. She can’t have children, so who is she? She drinks too much, she’s a hysteric. Luckily, she’s got a husband who loves her and she loves him, so deep down, they’re going to be OK. That’s what I like about it, deep down they really love each other.” Two Doors Down was torture – I had to wear a wig that made me feel like I'd been stung by bees She’s fascinated by her character, but clearly doesn’t love playing the enthusiast. “It’s a really good cast, very good actors, and we do good acting in it,” she says drily, before relaxing into all the things she hates about it. “And the days were very long and hard and brutal and grim – 11 hours on camera, in the most uncomfortable outfit with pleather trousers, and a wig that makes me feel like I’ve been stung by bees on my head, and a lot of make up which I never wear, and very high heels. So it’s like torture.”She’s always had a sceptical, outsiderish relationship with “straight” drama, probably also “straight” conversations. While studying, she devised a standup act, and brought it to London. Armando Iannucci saw her and this led, circuitously, to The Day Today and then Smack the Pony, the sketch show that everybody assumes started with three friends – Mackichan, Sally Phillips and Fiona Allen – but didn’t start like that at all.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We were women being foolish and there wasn’t a tradition of that’ … Smack the Pony.“Armando said, ‘Watch the pilot – if you like it, they need a third person.’ Sally did a sketch with a parking attendant, who had no friends so just gatecrashed funerals. It was hilarious. I hadn’t seen people deal with these issues, women and loneliness. I loved the tone. But then I met them and it was like, ‘Who are these people?’” Phillips is a born-again Christian and Allen – for reasons we don’t get to the bottom of – was “even more different to me”. Usually, when I remember sketch shows, it’s in broad characters (Harry Enfield) or creative atmosphere (The Day Today). But Smack the Pony, I can recall at the level of the facial expressions they made, all three but Mackichan in particular possessing a mime-like physical hilariousness that bit you without warning. She has, as comedians say sagely about much-admired peers, funny bones. It was very popular, but never really recognised, or rather siloed as “women’s comedy”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘On the surface, I’m quite nice – but underneath, I’m no longer tame’ … Mackichan dives in to the water in Hastings. Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian“I really don’t care about awards,” says Mackichan, “but we were never nominated in this country for best comic, best comedian. It’s never mentioned on the 100 best comedies, it’s never in the round-up. Even when we’d won two Emmys, we still didn’t get our Smack the Pony DVD. I just don’t know what that’s about. We were funny and we weren’t doing jokes about fatness or periods or chocolate or men. We were doing women being foolish, which there wasn’t a great tradition of. And we looked quite attractive sometimes, we were quite sexy and funny. Perhaps that was a bit too much.” The show ended when “we’d done four series and I literally couldn’t write another quickie. We had no punchlines left in us. You cannot sit in a basement with the same women for four years.” They remained very close, and went through a huge amount together: “My son had cancer, Sally’s boy has Down’s syndrome. We’ve all had problems at home.”  I've stopped being afraid of saying the wrong thing Mackichan had a career break to care for her son, but his recovery was followed swiftly by a divorce from her husband, actor Anthony Barclay. She wrote all this devastation into a show at the Edinburgh fringe in 2010. Then, she was commonly agreed to be darkly hilarious about it; six years later, there’s a relieved lightness, as she talks about having her own house for the first time since the divorce, and her mother’s reservations about Hastings. “She said, ‘Darling, don’t move there. You’ll never meet anyone. You’ll be buried alive.’”A lot of people, perhaps most, say they don’t care what people think, but Doon Mackichan has the charisma of genuine nonchalance. “I’ve stopped being afraid of saying the wrong thing, or trying to be a good girl. We’re overdomesticated: there’s a whole other side of our natures – a need to be properly seen to. That sounds rude! ‘Addressed’ not ‘seen to’.” This momentary derailing resolved, she concludes: “On the surface, I’m quite nice – but underneath, I’m no longer tame.”Two Doors Down is on BBC2 from 21 November.