Among the coalition of artists denouncing Donald Trump, the White Stripes went one step further this week by creating a T-shirt targeting the Republican nominee.The front of the shirt reads “Icky Trump”, a play on their song Icky Thump, while the back features searing lyrics from the track , “White Americans? What? Nothing better to do? Why don’t you kick yourself out? You’re an immigrant too.”The release of the shirt comes a few days after the White Stripes released a statement expressing outrage that Donald Trump had used their music for his campaign video.The White Stripes join a long list of artists, writers, and musicians that have made some form of protest art targeting the Republican presidential nominee this election cycle.White Stripes release shirt targeted at Donald TrumpArtists have been galvanized in their opposition to Donald Trump, evidenced most clearly by the range of anti-Trump groups that have emerged. Celebrities have lent their names to groups such as United Against Trump, #StopHatredDumpTrump, and 450 American writers signed a petition against Trump. Two weeks ago, actors including Robert Downey Jr, Scarlett Johansson, and Mark Ruffalo, among many others, made a video imploring people to register to vote to make sure Trump does not get elected. Don Cheadle described Trump as a “a racist, abusive coward who could permanently damage the fabric of our society”.Several artists have also penned songs targeting Trump. The Mexican American singer Becky G released We are Mexico in response to Donald Trump’s inflammatory remarks about Mexican immigrants in the US.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Becky G’s song We Are Mexico, targeting Trump.Many examples of visual protest art have emerged since Trump announced his candidacy. Naked depictions of Trump have been a recurring theme. Los Angeles-based artist Illma Gore made a nude painting of Trump, whose penis size was discussed during the Republican primary season. The pencil illustration, titled Make America Great, received a huge response; the artist was even suspended from Facebook for posting the painting. She said she later received threats of legal action and death threats, and a Trump supporter reportedly punched her in the face.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Painting of a naked Donald Trump by the artist Illma Gore. Photograph: Courtesy of Illma GoreNude statues of Trump were erected in New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Cleveland and Seattle in August and instantly captured the public’s attention. The statues show Trump wearing a grim expression and portrayed with saggy features and missing testicles. The artist responsible said the statues, named The Emperor has No Balls, were meant to humiliate Trump while highlighting his authoritarian tendencies. The statues, however, received criticism for body shaming.  The Emperor Has No Balls. Los Angeles #INDECLINE . . . . . . (photo: @birdmanphotos)A photo posted by INDECLINE (@indeclineofficial) on Aug 18, 2016 at 9:21am PDTTrump’s star on the Hollywood Boulevard has been targeted by artists several times during this election cycle. The Norwegian street artist Pøbel released a video of himself spray-painting a mute symbol on Trump’s star on Hollywood Boulevard.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Video of artist spraying mute symbol on Trump’s Hollywood star.Former Def Jam Records CEO Russell Simmons is among the celebrities to have penned an open letter to Trump, in which he called Trump a longtime friend and implored him to “stop the bullsh*t”.YG and Nipsey Hussle’s Fuck Donald Trump is probably the most pointed of all when it comes to Trump protest music. YG recently invited fans onstage at his concert to smash a Trump piñata. However, YG’s label censored certain lines from the song, leaving awkward gaps in the rap. Lines such as “Surprised El Chapo ain’t try to snipe you” were blocked by his label. Fans beating a Donald Trump piñata at YG concert