The Sound is not just music. On the exclusive island of Nantucket, the Sound is the sea. The sea where people die. Ren Kingston has suffered enough humiliation with her ex-boyfriend, so to avoid a summer of pain she becomes a nanny for a wealthy family, the Tripps.The family is nice enough, two gorgeous kids and nice parents. It’s the neighbours you have to worry about. The Thornes know everyone; rich and overachieving, they throw the parties of the century. The private school kids, with their secret rendezvous on the beach, take an interest in Ren, take her under their wing and warn her about the dangers of the island. The thing is, last summer a rich family had a nanny and the young girl was found on the beach. Dead. Strangled, they say. This summer another foreign girl is found dead. Another nanny. At least Ren is safe. Isn’t she? The resident bad boy, Jesse Miller, seems to be in all the right places and do the sweetest of things. Maybe he’s not as bad as everyone thinks. But you may have to ask Tyler Reed about how sweet Jesse’s fists were when they sent him into a coma. Ren tries to keep boys off the agenda but Jeremy Thorne seems to say all the right things, except his ‘studying’ seems to be a little suspicious – who studies when all exams are over, and in the summer too? And what’s with the competition with Tyler? Rich boys want revenge and so do bad boys. But what are they fighting over? That’s the question no-one seems to know. Tensions escalate. Ren’s summer may not be the only thing burning. A serial killer on the loose, boys to hook up with and little girls with bullies. This aspiring music journalist may be escaping ex-boyfriends but she’s run into something that she may not come back from. This time her favourite playlist won’t mend her broken heart. Especially when it doesn’t have a beat.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Welcome to the USA. Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!