It’s easy to see why adoption is such a powerful source of storytelling. Mystery. Multiple identities. Families turned inside out. In my novel The Doll Funeral, Ruby finds out she’s adopted on her 13th birthday. When she hears the news, she runs out into her unkempt garden and sings for joy to the storm clouds, so awful has her life been up to that point. This is the jumping-off point for everything, and her subsequent search for her real parents ends up uncovering terrible secrets in both her own and others’ families.  For Ruby, knowing that she’s adopted means both despair and hope. Until she knows her roots – “the soil” in which she was formed, as she puts it – she will never be able to know herself or find rest. In both fiction and nonfiction, adoption has meant many things. These are some of the books I’ve loved where it has featured.1. The Book Thief by Markus ZusakLeisel Meminger’s adoption has its roots in the dark machinations of Nazi Germany. Her mother’s outlawed communism forces her to send her daughter to be fostered by Hans and Rosa Hubermann. This is a fantastically nuanced story. Rosa – with her nasty tongue – hardly seems much of a mother substitute. Yet through her foster father’s gentle parenting – and through her love of books – this grows into a powerful tale of non-familial relationships and their healing possibilities. Even Rosa unbends. It is narrated by the tender voice of Death – a strange kind of father figure to humanity.2. The Jungle Book by Rudyard KiplingMowgli was adopted by wolves and raised away from humans in the Indian jungle – much as Romulus and Remus, the mythical founders of Rome, were said to have been suckled by a she-wolf. An enduring and potent story where some animals are as loving and nurturing, or more, than their human counterparts.3. Oliver Twist by Charles DickensPoor Oliver undergoes multiple adoptions: by the workhouse; by Mr Sowerberry, the miserly undertaker who takes him on as an apprentice; by Fagin’s gang and by the terrifying surrogate father Bill Sikes, until his final adoption by the gentle and genteel Mr Brownlow. Also known as The Parish Boy’s Progress, each adoption enables Dickens to investigate the various plights of destitute children in Victorian England.Top 10 mothers, 'bad' and otherwise, in books 4. The Cider House Rules by John IrvingHomer Wells is a long-term resident of an orphanage and spends his days “being of use” to the director Dr Wilbur Larch. Although Larch’s technique is to maintain a distance from the orphans so they can be resettled into families, Homer is returned so many times that Larch’s boundaries eventually break down. The book shows how adoption can mean many things and Homer’s identity becomes bound up with his institution, so much so that he is known as “the boy who belonged to St Clouds”.5. The Winter’s Tale by William ShakespearePerdita – “the lost one” in Latin – is abandoned in the wilderness after her royal father Leontes wrongly believes her to be illegitimate. In part, this is an investigation of the nature/nurture debate that is so pertinent to all adoption stories. Shakespeare stays firmly on the side of nature. Despite being found and raised in a simple life by a shepherd, a prince still falls in love with Perdita. As in a fair few adoption tales, her royal nature has been retained despite the fact she is unaware of it. 6. The Bad Seed by William MarchChildren’s books feature many adoption stories about the plight of youngsters in the clutch of evil adults. But what if the boot is on the other foot? I first read March’s book – another nature/nurture tale – when I was very young and it grabbed me by the throat. Eight-year-old Rhoda Penmark is every parent’s dream, polite and impeccably behaved. However, fatal “accidents” occur around her. Her mother Christine – spoiler alert! – finds out that she herself was adopted, her birth mother a notorious serial killer; the bad seed that her daughter has inherited. I won’t give away the ending as well but safe to say it’s a chilling one!7. Why Be Happy When You Could Be Normal? by Jeanette WintersonA profoundly moving book, which sees Winterson revisiting and updating her semi-autobiographical novel Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit. The terrible force of her adopted mother’s apocalyptic religious fervour features again and it’s fascinating to see it again through the prism of the quarter-century that has gone by. In the intervening years, Winterson has also searched for – and found – her birth mother, with all the complexities that involves. She writes: “I suppose the saddest thing for me, thinking about the cover version that is Oranges, is that I wrote a story I could live with. The other one was too painful. I could not survive it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In search of a story that could be lived with … Jeanette Winterson. Photograph: BBC8. The Secret Garden by Frances Hodgson BurnettNow considered a classic in children’s literature, this book has something of a mystical atmosphere to it. I think it’s because the protagonist, the sickly, spoilt 10-year-old Mary Lennox, bereft of her parents and household and moving from India to a chilly Yorkshire, undergoes such a profound emotional and spiritual journey. It shows the possibility of forming a surrogate family that sustains you better than the biological one.9. Red Dust Road by Jackie KayA compassionate and funny account of Kay’s search for her real parents, which begins with her as a child in Glasgow, realising that her skin is a different colour to her mum and dad’s. Nature and nurture both feature again, but so does that other “parent”, place. In Kay’s case, one of these turns out to be Nigeria, which sings out from the pages.10. Jane Eyre by Charlotte BrontëHow could this not be in the Top 10? When Mrs Reed unwillingly adopts Jane, the young girl begins a fight to define herself in the face of others attempting to do it for her. This is the ultimate novel, for so many people, about how one holds onto identity in the face of overwhelming odds.The Doll Funeral by Kate Hamer is published by Faber & Faber, priced £12.99. It is available from the Guardian bookshop for £9.74.