Tristram Hunt’s appointment at the V&A is a surprise, particularly since he has no experience running a large organisation. But does that matter?The answer is yes and no. Certainly Hunt will have to be a fast learner in getting to grips with the labyrinthine complexities of the world’s largest museum of art and design. The V&A’s vast collections are striking in their diversity, from a 1,000-year-old Egyptian rock crystal ewer to the original Joey puppet from the National Theatre’s production of War Horse.He will need to be diplomatic, dynamic and not afraid to make difficult decisions quickly.Tristram Hunt to quit as MP to become V&A director But what Hunt also brings is communication and vision, and there is precedent for this type of appointment. In 1987 the National Gallery decided to appoint a rank outsider to replace Sir Michael Levey as director. They chose a former university lecturer and editor of the specialist Burlington magazine, Neil MacGregor, who went on to become director of the British Museum and one of the finest arts leaders of his or anyone’s generation.The question of big organisation management experience is not one generally asked in other arts areas. Rufus Norris is director of the National Theatre and Gregory Doran is director of the Royal Shakespeare Company. Both are leaders steeped in the creative process. Doran does not even have a computer in his office.What every good leader needs, of course, are skilled lieutenants and Hunt will have that at the V&A, particularly with a very able and highly regarded deputy director, Tim Reeve.V&A trustees have decided to think outside the box for their appointment, but look closely at Hunt’s CV and track record and the decision soon seems less of a risk.He is a skilful communicator, able to articulate complex ideas easily. His seven years in parliament also stand him in good stead, in that any museum director needs to understand and get on with their political paymasters. He knows the museums and heritage sector well: he is a former judge for the annual Museum of the Year award and a serving trustee of the Heritage Lottery Fund.The appointment comes at a crucial time in the V&A’s history. This year it will open its £49m underground extension, creating a new grand entrance on Exhibition Road and temporary exhibition space. The V&A Museum of Design Dundee is due to open in 2018, and V&A East, described as a museum for the digital age, is expected to open in the former Olympic park in east London by 2022.The V&A is getting bigger, and clearly there are risks in handing the keys to someone not steeped in museum management. But any worried trustee can close their eyes and think: Neil MacGregor.