UnlimitedThis brilliant festival of high-quality work made by disabled artists returns. Look out for Liz Carr’s Assisted Suicide: the Musical, which considers the legalisation of suicide as a humane choice, and Cherophobia, in which Noemi Lakmaier will spend 48 hours attempting to lift her immobilised body off the ground using 20,000 helium balloons. There is plenty more, including a solo show from Backstage in Biscuit Land’s Jess Thom.• 6 to 11 September, Southbank Centre, London. Box office: 020-7960 4200.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maxine Peake in A Streetcar Named Desire. Photograph: Jonathan OakesA Streetcar Named DesireMaxine Peake, following striking performances in Hamlet and The Skriker, now plays Blanche DuBois in the Tennessee Williams classic. It will be fascinating to see whether Peake plays Blanche as an embodiment of the poetic spirit rather than a cracked southern belle. With Sarah Frankcom directing and Ben Batt as Stanley Kowalski, the omens look good.• 8 September to 15 October, Royal Exchange, Manchester. Box office: 0161-833 9833.No Man’s LandIan McKellen and Patrick Stewart, having bonded in a revival of Waiting for Godot, star in Sean Mathias’s production of Harold Pinter’s austere masterpiece about the meeting of an aged literary lion and a pushy minor poet. Owen Teale and Damien Molony play the manservants in a work that, with its echoes of Eliot and Beckett, ushers one into an unforgettable twilight zone.• From 8 September, Wyndham’s, London. Box office: 0844-482 5120.DedicationNick Dear’s new play explores the relationship between Shakespeare and the third Earl of Southampton, who was his cross-dressing patron and to whom The Rape of Lucrece is dedicated. He might also have been the playwright’s lover. Set against a background of an Elizabethan England full of suspicion and plots, this speculative romantic drama puts Shakespeare in the dock to try to uncover the truth of the relationship, and uses poetry as evidence.• 9 September to 8 October, Nuffield, Southampton. Box office: 023-8067 1771.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   What lies beneath … Things I Know to Be True. Photograph: Helen MaybanksThings I Know to Be TrueAn international collaboration between Frantic Assembly and the State Theatre Company of South Australia, this show looks at the secrets hidden beneath the apparently calm and loving surface of family life. It mixes Frantic’s trademark movement with Andrew Bovell’s text. The show had great reviews when it premiered in Adelaide, praised for its frankness about the pleasures and resentments of being part of a family.• 10 September to 1 October, Lyric Hammersmith, London. Box office: 020-8741 6850. Then touring.The Cheviot, the Stag and the Black Black OilJohn McGrath’s play about the exploitation of the Scottish Highlands has been described as “the single most important show in the history of Scottish theatre”. First seen over 40 years ago, the show is now revived by Joe Douglas and the Dundee Rep Ensemble in a production that earned universal five-star reviews on its first outing.• 14-24 September, Royal Lyceum, Edinburgh. Box office: 0131-248 4848.Father Comes Home from the Wars (Parts 1, 2 & 3)These three short plays by Suzan Lori-Parks are the start of an ambitious attempt to retell the story of the American civil war. The focus is on a slave promised his freedom by his master if he joins the Confederacy in its fight against the Union. Steve Toussaint and Jimmy Akingbola head the cast, and Jo Bonney, who directed the hugely acclaimed 2014 American production, is in charge.• 15 September to 22 October, Royal Court, London. Box office: 020-7565 5000.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scrumdiddlyumptious fun … a poster image for Roald Dahl’s City of the UnexpectedRoald Dahl’s City of the UnexpectedThere will be pandemonium across Cardiff on 17 September as the city centre is transformed into a surreal world in celebration of the work of Roald Dahl. More than 6,000 people will be creating pop-up performances and unexpected spectacles, culminating in a top-secret finale, details of which will be revealed only on the day. Sunday sees a ticketed storytelling event and a mass pyjama picnic in Bute Park. All scrumdiddlyumptious fun from Wales Millennium Centre and the National Theatre Wales.• 17-18 September, various locations in Cardiff.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Realities of diagnosis … A Pacifist’s Guide to the War on CancerA Pacifist’s Guide to the War on CancerBryony Kimmings and Brian Lobel consider our attitudes to cancer and the language and metaphors we employ to deal with it through the stories of five people. This is an all-singing, all-dancing affair with music by Tom Parkinson, stripping away the pink charity ribbons to look at the realities of diagnosis and what it means for the wider family.• 20-24 September, Home, Manchester. Box office: 0161-200 1500. Then touring.The NestEvery parent wants the best for their baby. Kurt and Martha are prepared to work hard to ensure theirs has everything he needs, even if that means Kurt taking on extra work. Franz Xaver Kroetz’s extraordinary play about the damage that profit wreaks on individuals and the environment gets a new translation from Conor McPherson. PJ Harvey provides the music for Ian Rickson’s revival.• 1-22 October, Lyric, Belfast. Box office: 028-9038 1081; 28 October to 26 November, Young Vic, London. Box office: 020-7922 2922.Barack, the Beatles and Bridget Jones's Baby – 40 films to watch in autumn 2016 The Suppliant WomenA new version of Aeschylus’s 2,500-year-old play about a group of women seeking asylum who make the treacherous journey across the Mediterranean from North Africa to escape forced marriage. Written by David Greig and directed by Ramin Gray, it reunites the team behind The Events and will include a huge community chorus at each venue. An ancient piece that asks a contemporary question: when we are in trouble, who will open their doors and give us haven?• 1 to 15 October, Lyceum, Edinburgh. Box office: 0131-248 4848. Then touring.TravestiesPatrick Marber directs the first London revival in over 20 years of Tom Stoppard’s exuberant 1974 comedy. Tom Hollander plays Henry Carr, a minor consular official who, in first world war Zurich, encounters James Joyce, Lenin and the dadaist Tristan Tzara. Freddie Fox and Amy Morgan play supporting roles, and the play offers a wild, and even Wildean, excursion into art, politics and the strange coincidences of history.• 22 September-19 November, Menier Chocolate Factory, London. Box office: 020–7378 1713.The Red BarnDavid Hare’s new play is, rather unexpectedly, based on La Main, a psychological thriller by the great Georges Simenon. The setting is Connecticut 1969, and the story concerns two couples who, on their way back from a party, struggle through the snow. The play is directed by the Almeida’s current golden boy, Robert Icke (1984, Oresteia), and the cast is headed by Mark Strong and Hope Davis. Bunny Christie designs.• From 6 October, Lyttelton, London. Box office: 020-7452 3000.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Unanswered questions … The Gaul.The GaulSome time on the night of 8 February 1974, fishing trawler FV Gaul disappeared without trace off the coast of Norway. For the families of the 36 men on board, waiting for news back in Hull was a time of great distress. Theories began to abound, including the possibility that the boat had fallen victim to cold war hostilities. Even when the trawler was discovered on the seabed, and despite a subsequent inquiry, many still feel there arequestions that remain unanswered. As Hull hurtles towards the 2017 Year of Culture, Mark Babych directs Janet Plater’s play.• 6-29 October, Hull Truck. Box office: 01482 323638.The Intelligent Homosexual’s Guide to Capitalism and Socialism with a Key to the ScripturesThe title is a bit of a mouthful but anything from the pen of Tony Kushner, who wrote Angels in America (soon to be revived by the National), is to be savoured. This play takes the form of a family reunion in which everyone struggles to find meaning in a landscape they no longer recognise. Michael Boyd directs the British premiere of a piece of theatre that, on its US debut, was said to fizz with ideas.• 15 October to 26 November, Hampstead theatre, London. Box office: 020-7722 9301.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inevitable pathos … Lazarus.LazarusThere is an inevitable pathos about seeing this musical by David Bowie and Enda Walsh so soon after Bowie’s death. Inspired by the sci-fi novel and movie, The Man Who Fell to Earth, it deals with a hero, Thomas Newton, unable to die and haunted by a past love. Likely to be the autumn’s hottest ticket, the score includes new songs specially composed by Bowie and Ivo van Hove’s production features the stars of the original New York cast, Michael C Hall, Michael Esper and Sophia Anne Caruso.• From 25 October, King’s Cross theatre, London. Box office: 0844 871 7604.Eyes on the prize: the must-see art and design of autumn 2016 King Lear In a year filled with Lears, including Antony Sher and Timothy West, no one should be surprised to see Glenda Jackson having a crack at the title. She not only has impeccable Shakespearean credentials, but also direct experience of the madness of politics. Deborah Warner’s production includes a strong supporting cast, including Celia Imrie and Jane Horrocks as Goneril and Regan, Rhys Ifans as the Fool and Harry Melling as Edgar.• 25 October to 2 December, Old Vic, London. Box office: 0844-871 7628.The RoyaleA welcome return of the knock-out play about Jack Johnson, the first African-American world heavyweight boxing champion, which received sizzling reviews on its 2015 debut at the Bush. It should deliver an even greater punch as Madani Younis moves his production to the Tabernacle in Notting Hill, which has often been a venue for amateur boxing bouts. Expect the atmosphere to be electric.• 3-26 November, The Tabernacle, London. Box office: 020-8743 5050.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Groundbreaking tech … The Tempest.The TempestSimon Russell Beale returns to the Stratford stage for the first time in 20 years to play Prospero in Shakespeare’s magical fable about the supremacy of forgiveness over vengeance. Mark Quartley is Ariel, once played by Russell Beale, in a production by Gregory Doran that promises a groundbreaking link between the RSC and Intel in its use of advanced technology. Could that mean a digitised TV Ariel?• 8 November-21 January, Royal Shakespeare theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon. Box office: 01789 403493.Trouble in MindAlice Childress won an Obie (Off-Broadway award) in 1956 for this story of a black actress rehearsing a play with a white director who increasingly finds it impossible for the show to go on. The wonderful Tanya Moodie and Joseph Marcell star in a scathing satire directed by Laurence Boswell, who has turned the tiny Ustinov Studio into a powerhouse.• 10 November to 17 December, Ustinov, Theatre Royal, Bath. Box office: 01225 448844.• This article was amended on 31 August 2016. Cherophobia will use 20,000 helium balloons, not 33,000 as an earlier version said. 