Superheroes used to be loners. They were isolated by the exclusivity of their superpowers, the singularity of their origins, the particularity of their neuroses and the eccentricity of their garb.The very earliest of the big-screen superheroes, Captain Marvel (1941) and Batman (1943), were marked out by their apartness. When the genre really took off, in1978, it found Christopher Reeve’s Superman grappling with his solitude. If Michael Keaton’s Batman (1989) was hardly companionable, Christian Bale’s was even less so. Through the 1990s and the 2000s, most of their burgeoning array of peers managed to cut the mustard by themselves. Then, it seems, the loners got too lonely. In 2012, Avengers Assemble brought together Iron Man, Captain America, Hulk, Black Widow and even Hawkeye just to take on Thor’s half-brother, Loki. The result delivered $1.5bn (£1bn) at the box-office. Understandably, a trend was set.Captain America: Civil War review – an aspartame rush Last year, Avengers: Age of Ultron grossed almost as much as its predecessor. We can therefore look forward to Avengers: Infinity War – Part I in 2018 and Avengers: Infinity War – Part II in 2019. By then, the Avengers’ hegemony will be under challenge from an even more variously powered superhero collective. Next year, Justice League: Part One will bring together Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, the Flash, Aquaman, Cyborg and Mera. Meanwhile, Spider-Man will be required to divvy up his reboot with Iron Man and perhaps other super-protagonists. Justice League: Part Two will arrive in 2019. Why have these once proudly self-reliant characters been so bunched up? To be fair, you can’t blame the movies alone Of course, Batman and Superman have already had to share the screen. And this week, we are offered Captain America: Civil War. The film finds the eponymous captain leading an Avengers team that includes Iron Man, Black Widow, Falcon, Winter Soldier, War Machine, Hawkeye, Black Panther, Scarlet Witch, Ant-Man and Spider-Man. The troop are split into warring camps with a plan to subject their exploits to political oversight.If that sounds like a recipe for inanity on an unprecedented scale, then so it turns out. Yet we don’t get the wild self-mockery of Guardians of the Galaxy. The goings-on are supposed to be taken as seriously as anything can be in the superhero universe. Sages have even discerned profound messages in the super-squabble.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch theCaptain America: Civil War trailer – videoPhilosopher Mark D White says the film addresses issues found in Aristotle, Jeremy Bentham and Immanuel Kant. Captain America is the Kantian upholder of autonomy and privacy; Iron Man, the leader of the opposing faction, is the Benthamite pragmatist. Spider-Man, an Aristotelian virtue ethicist, bends according to the principals’ arguments. Well done, Mark D White. Yet Aristotle, Bentham and Kant can probably rest easy in their graves; history is unlikely to determine that Captain America: Civil War superseded their efforts. Were history to take an interest, it would more likely conclude that the Avengers’ bickering was super-fatuity writ large.Still, you can’t blame super-persons for coming up short in Shavian disputation. The singularity of their selfhoods militates against subtlety of engagement. Their difficulty in finding common ground may also explain why their jokes are so terrible. Meanwhile, their superpowers are devalued by simultaneous application. A world in which different characters are suspending different laws of physics becomes imaginatively unmanageable.So why have these once proudly self-reliant characters been so ignominiously bunched up? To be fair, you can’t blame the movies alone. Their comic book sources were teaming up superheroes long before Hollywood followed suit. The idea seems to have been that conflict between figures of disparate capabilities and temperaments would re-energise the genre. Captain America: Civil War brings home the limitations of this tactic. So why did re-energisation seem necessary?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christopher Reeve’s Superman didn’t need a little help from his friends. Photograph: Channel 5Originally, the function of the superhero was straightforward. His task was to provide a consoling fantasy for adolescent boys unsure how to fit in and frustrated by their powerlessness. What such lads really needed was a magical capability. With this, they could take command of the grownup world that marginalised them. They could even rescue their scornful elders from fearsome evils. That’d show ’em.The infantilisation of society has enabled superheroes to spread similar consolation to adult filmgoers. Yet the succour provided is limited. A hero’s superpowers, initially seductive, soon start to become irritating. They’re OK for him, but we mere mortals have to manage without them. It’s easier to identify with a Bond or a Bourne. Superheroes are therefore set up to disappoint; by huddling together they may hope to distract their devotees from this unfortunate failing.The ruse seems to be working. Next week, Captain America: Civil War may deliver one of the top four North American openings of all time. Perhaps more surprisingly, the film has also garnered critical acclaim.Togetherness seems to be securing a super-heyday for superheroes. But they may yet rue their urge to herd. In the end, theirs must surely be a solitary calling.