   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Watch our video review of Straight Outta ComptonThe makers of Oscar-nominated rap biopic Straight Outta Compton have hit back against a $110m defamation suit filed by the former NWA manager Jerry Heller.Heller, who is portrayed by Paul Giamatti in the box office smash, went to court last November claiming F Gary Gray’s film portrayed him as “sleazy” and greedy, as well as using details without consent from his memoirs. But defendants, who include former NWA members Ice Cube and Dr Dre, as well as Gray, the Universal studio, the biopic’s Oscar-nominated screenwriters and others, have called for large portions of the suit to be thrown out. They claim Heller’s legal threat amounts to a “hodgepodge of conclusory allegations and subjective interpretations” and have separately claimed that Straight Outta Compton is based on historic accusations by NWA against Heller which the latter has admitted were made in his own autobiography.“The ‘Jerry Heller’ character in the film is not shown committing any improper or illegal actions, or even admitting that he had ever done anything improper,” reads the legal rebuttal. “Rather, the film depicts criticisms articulated by others about plaintiff, which plaintiff’s own memoir concedes had been very publicly leveled against him ... It is impossible to conceive of a serious docudrama exploring this history that would not depict these disputes, and the first amendment protects the right of film-makers to tell this story.”NWA manager Jerry Heller files $110m Straight Outta Compton libel suit Heller, played by actor Paul Giamatti, can be seen as the source of conflict between group members Ice Cube, Eazy-E and Dr Dre in Straight Outta Compton. The music industry mogul, who managed NWA throughout the hip-hop outfit’s late 80s and early 90s success, is seen encouraging Cube (O’Shea Jackson, Jr) to accept a cheque for $75,000 in order to sign a contract without the involvement of a lawyer. He regularly sides with business partner E (Jason Mitchell), and towards the end of the movie is fired by him after the warring group members agree in principle to reunite.The music mogul, 75, has denied being responsible for NWA’s breakup or creating conflict between the group’s members in his suit, which was filed at the Los Angeles superior court. He further objected to being depicted as a sleazy type who tried to force his clients to sign unfavourable contracts, says he never offered Cube a $75,000 cheque and has denied ever being fired by Eazy-E.However, the defendants said the characterisation of the mogul in the film was merely opinion, and not actionable. They also denied malice and presented a public interest defence under Californian law against Heller’s claims that the film undermined his publicity rights.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Giamatti’s portrayal of music manager Jerry Heller in Straight Outta Compton Photograph: AlamyTwitter: tweets in James Woods cocaine defamation case were 'hyperbole' In other Hollywood legal news, the twice-Oscar-nominated actor James Woods has won the right to move forward with his $10m defamation suit against a Twitter user who labelled him a cocaine addict. The ruling by Los Angeles superior court judge Mel Recana means Woods can take action to force the social networking site to reveal the true identity of user “Abe List”, who has been allegedly trolling the actor online.Abe List’s tweets have typically been replies to controversial statements made by the conservative-leaning Woods on Twitter, including a “birther”-related tweet about Barack Obama in December 2014. In reply to a post the actor made about media priorities, the Twitter user replied “cocaine addict James Woods still sniffing and spouting”.Twitter’s lawyer for the case, Ryan Mrazik, filed a legal letter accusing Woods of trying to “chill the First Amendment”, the US constitutional chapter that deals with free speech, in November. Mrazik also argued Twitter users were merely responding to the actor’s own combative tweets. But after initially ruling in favour of the defendant’s motion to strike Woods’s case on 2 February, the judge has now allowed the suit to proceed in a move described by the Hollywood Reporter as a “stunning reversal”.