In a sweltering Edinburgh room Richard Gadd stands, a perspiring vision in pink lycra shorts, before an audience who are all on their feet. The applause is heavy, loud, interjected with occasional whoops and shrieks, and Gadd gazes out at them all, a look of surprise on his face. He blinks vigorously. “Thank you,” he says. “Honestly. This has been the fucking toughest four years of my life.”Last year, the standup was the underground hit of the festival with his show Waiting for Gaddot, based on the absurdist premise that he didn’t actually turn up for the hour-long show until the final five minutes. It was chaotic and crude and painfully funny. Gadd admits he could have ridden this wave of success for a second year and “easily done Waiting for Gaddot part II”. Instead, he wrote the most searingly personal show of his career.Monkey See, Monkey Do explores masculinity and the dangers and stigmas attached to the very definition of what – even in today’s supposedly progressive society of metrosexuals and stay-at-home-dads – it is to be “a man”. It’s a popular theme at the fringe this year, but Gadd’s show feels braver as it emerges that his own crisis of masculinity was triggered by a sexual assault four years ago.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I used to run just to feel normal’ … Monkey See, Monkey Do is performed on a treadmill. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianI meet Gadd the evening after his second show, which is the first time in his comedy career that he has received a standing ovation. It’s a moment, he says, he will never forget, mainly because he never really believed he would make it up on to the stage in the first place. “I’ve been thinking about writing this show for years, but I always postponed it because there’s something about writing things down that makes it very real. I never believed I was going to do this up till yesterday.” He stops, then adds: “This is the most truthful thing I’ve ever done.”For Gadd, a motivating factor in writing the show was to focus on the warped and outdated idea of manhood that he sees as still “dangerously” prevalent today – and that was a pivotal part of his own struggles to come to terms with what happened to him. Comedy might seem a strange realm to discuss these issues, but for Gadd the opportunity to bring laughter into this dark chapter of his life is a form of catharsis. “I was very down on my life, very ashamed. I punished myself so much and my self-esteem was so low. ”Richard Gadd review – grindhouse gags give way to courageous confession It is visibly tough for him to speak about it. He writhes and squirms, wrapping his arms over his face. It is, after all, just a few days since the show opened and his experiences of the past four years came into the public realm. Now, on a daily basis, he is recounting a time when, “it was just about getting through the day”.You don’t have to say anything you don’t want to, I tell him. Gadd nods. “Keeping this in was really hard. And I knew the only way I’d be free of it is if I start to tell people. I don’t think anyone knows how bad it is until it happens.” Gadd pauses, then breaks into a tentative laugh. “What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, I think.”For him, the incident was a dividing line in his life. Looking conflicted, he says: “I am a completely different person than I was. It changes your life. After it happened, I lost control of myself.”Gadd does the show on a treadmill. “I used to run just to feel normal again,” he says, “because the memories … it was hard. As I ran I would put on the Pogues or Flogging Molly. These angry tunes for my angry life.” He was repressing what had happened, “telling myself, ‘Don’t think of that, don’t think of that.’ Swallowing my thoughts and feelings.” But then he began telling those closest to him what had happened.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Previous shows were ‘loud romps, a few degrees away from me as a person’“I was always worried what people would think and that they would judge – but nobody gave a shit. I mean, they cared, but they didn’t think less of me for it.” Eventually it got to the point where he’d told everyone important in his life, and it was time to deal with it through his work. Previous routines were, he says, “loud romps, a few degrees away from me as a person.” There were dark hints (“like one of those gas canisters, relieving a bit of tension each time”) but now was the time to “let it all out”.In the show Gadd talks about how, after the incident, he fell victim to a crippling inner monologue of anxiety – the monkey that still rattles him throughout our conversation. It also saw him adopt a more fluid approach to his own sexuality. Yet he is mostly plagued by how much he thought to himself, at the time, that that wasn’t something that happened to “guys like me”. I thought of myself as a man and I felt like that was taken from me, and I’m ashamed of that now “I’m the man playing football twice a week with my football pals. Or watching boxing.” He says: “If I’m being honest, I thought of myself as a man and I felt like that was taken from me, and I’m ashamed of that now. But I felt like that was the story I wanted and I needed to tell with this show because it was just the part of it that seemed to bother me more than anything.”Gadd says he was born into a liberal family who couldn’t have been more supportive and yet he still grew up with anxieties about masculinity. He sees this as his chance to challenge toxic ideas of stiff-upper-lip strength. “I’ve bungee jumped and skydived and done all that fear bullshit, but the scariest thing I’ve done in my life was admitting who I am to people. Maybe the measure of a man is admitting how scared he is sometimes.”Gadd pauses for a moment. The lack of male figures in the public eye admitting they have experienced sexual assault is glaring, he notes, and ensured he felt even more isolated. Even now, he feels a lone voice. He is right. It’s why the show feels like one of the most courageous hours of comedy I’ve ever watched.“If I think of my life, even before the incident, all the issues and neuroses, fundamentally it’s been guilt that I’m not living up to being a man. And it’s crazy. People are so obsessed with diagnoses and definitions – we cannot resist putting people in a box. That’s why Tom Hardy, in every interview, is hounded about his sexuality. It’s why John Travolta is followed out of his car and into his house – because people need to know where people fit. But life is more complicated than that.”Richard Gadd: Breaking Gadd review – comedy of relentless degradation The set is as much about bringing some meaning and purpose to what he refers to as four years of hell and entrapment – “to see that I made it out alive”– as it is about challenging social stigmas. But it is also a way for Gadd to right a wrong from previous shows. A major critique of his past work by the Guardian’s comedy critic Brian Logan was that they were “obsessed with gay sex. Three times in the first half-hour, Gadd gets molested or threatened with molestation by predatory gay men – which is presented as hilarious.” The decision to make light of sexual assault in his comedy is one Gadd regrets now as “a poor artistic decision.”“That criticism of my show really hurt because I remember thinking, ‘If only he knew.’ I was trying to convince myself at the time that you could joke about these things – I was poking fun at it because I wanted to reduce the gravitas of what had happened to me.”Gadd is still clearly trying to flee his demons. But while he has no answer to the question that opens his show – “Who is the real Richard Gadd?”, he has at least come to stop caring whether he is adequately living up to being a man – whatever that means.“I believed that life was a stack of boxes and that I needed to fit into one of them. Whereas, fuck it, now I’m between boxes. It just doesn’t matter.”