1 Róisín MurphyThe former Moloko frontwoman continues to innovate with her offbeat electro, with latest album Take Her Up To Monto meandering around jazz, pop and cabaret influences as well as those intoxicating disco flourishes. She comes to the Globe for the theatre’s first ever contemporary live music performance.Shakespeare’s Globe, SE1, Mon2 Edward Sharpe And The Magnetic Zeros      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros.The 10-piece LA collective are probably best known for their 2010 single Home, a slice of Americana that naturally ended up on an ad for a family car. Sharpe and co are responsible for more than just one hazy earworm, though. Their latest album, PersonA, saw them amp up the hippy vibes despite a change of personnel.Islington Assembly Hall, N1, Mon & Tue3 V festival      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sia.It is easy to write V off as one long episode of a Sun, Sex And Suspicious Parents festival spinoff soundtracked by X Factor winners. Despite its unashamedly commercial nature, there’s no denying that this is the best place to go for a pop fix. Head to one of its two locations to catch the likes of Bieber, Sia, David Guetta and Rihanna.Hylands Park, Chelmsford & Weston Park, Shifnal, Fri to 21 Aug4 Green Man      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Marling. Photograph: Rough TradeThe Brecon Beacons-set festival’s 14th outing is likely to be as chilled and folksy as ever, with Belle And Sebastian, Laura Marling and Wild Beasts among the headliners. It’s got a more grown-up vibe than some other festivals (see above) but that doesn’t equal dull – and you might even nab a shower.Crickhowell, Thu to 21 Aug5 DJ Luck & MC Neat      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   DJ Luck & MC Neat. Photograph: Saira AwanFrom Craig David’s comeback to BBC3 mockumentary People Just Do Nothing, the past few years have been awash with appreciation for the days of UK garage. Without it, we wouldn’t have the grime artists we do now. Catch Luck and Neat as they party like it’s 1999.The Clapham Grand, SW11, Fri