Five artistic directors in a single company might sound like a case of too many cooks but the arrangement suits Chicago-based theatre outfit Manual Cinema perfectly. Their charming, gothic show Ada/Ava at the Edinburgh festival is an exquisitely precise piece of visual storytelling that requires all of them to operate in harmony, making use of several overhead projectors, more than 400 puppets, and actors, live music and a soundscape that is attuned to every emotional nuance in the story. The result mixes the simplest shadow puppetry with the sophistication of a modern movie, but has all the liveness and sense of shared experience that you get in theatre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Exquisitely precise … Ada/Ava. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianAs their arms move about to create the show in front of your eyes, it’s like watching an octopus. “You have to work as a team,” says Julia Miller, explaining that there is no room for inflated egos as the set-up requires every person on stage – not just the two actors – to play the elderly sisters, Ada and Ava, who live in a storm-tossed cottage under a lighthouse on the New England coast. “Every night we have to be acutely aware of what the others are doing and adjust what we are doing,” says Miller. When I first meet the company they are bemoaning the mistakes each of them had made during that afternoon’s performance. But those mistakes – which are not apparent to the audience – keep them on their toes in an hour-long show that requires thousands of repeated actions to create its magical and sometimes downright spooky illusions. A shorter, less sophisticated version of the show was first performed in the window of the company’s Chicago building one Halloween, and there were gigs in an old funeral parlour. Ada/Ava has gradually been scaled up and finessed since then. “We are much better puppeteers than we were when we started out,” says Miller. “And the better we’ve got, the more ambitious we’ve become.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ada/Ava requires thousands of repeated actions. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianFor the audience, seeing how fragile the process is adds to the pleasure and knowing how the effects are created makes you realise the effort that goes into making it look so effortless. It wouldn’t work if the storytelling wasn’t so tight, but the company understand the importance of narrative. They worked together to plot and storyboard the show. Dramaturg Drew Dir took inspiration from Hitchcock’s Vertigo, while the show’s exploration of twins and mirror images also borrows from Shakespeare’s The Comedy of Errors. “I was thinking about that play not as a comedy, which is how it’s normally seen, but as something more terrifying and touched by the uncanny. I wondered what it would be like if you slowed it down and played it as a dark thriller.”The New York Times praised its “spectral beauty”, but Ada/Ava is also a theatrical handbook for dealing with grief. The death of Dir’s grandmother, and then watching his grandfather adjusting his life to her absence, were powerful influences on a show that is drenched in the melancholia of loss. After the sudden death of her sister, Ada’s responses range from bewilderment and disbelief through rage to quiet acceptance, almost mirroring the stages of grief identified by Elisabeth Kübler-Ross.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mirror images … Ada/Ava by Manual Cinema. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianFor such a young company, Manual Cinema are worryingly obsessed with death. Their latest piece, Mementos Mori, is about our inability to confront our mortality. “We were interested in exploring mourning with Ada/Ava,” says Miller. “How do you recover from losing your twin? By the end Ada’s not OK – but she has found a way of surviving and going forward.”Ada/Ava is at Underbelly Potterrow, Edinburgh, until 29 August.