“Do you want to see her?” A 28-year-old actor is teasing Redbook magazine editor Robert Stein at Grand Central Station, New York, in March 1955. She’s gone completely unrecognised as photographer Ed Feingersh snapped candid pictures on the subway. Now, she slips off her bulky overcoat, fluffs her blonde hair and strikes a pose.Marilyn Monroe: sex symbol, model and muse – in pictures “In an instant she was engulfed,” Stein remembered in 2005, “and it took several shoving, scary minutes to rewrap her and push clear of the growing crowd.”She is Marilyn Monroe. Born 90 years ago as Norma Jeane Mortenson, she’s currently starring in two major regional exhibitions. Bendigo Art Gallery’s Marilyn Monroe showcases her costumes and possessions alongside her film work at Twentieth Century Fox, while Marilyn: Celebrating an American Icon, at the Murray Art Museum, Albury, explores the imagery she has inspired.Monroe’s glamour centres on her body. What’s missing from the stories of her as some kind of victimised sex object, is how cannily and consistently she deployed her physicality as a professional tool. In public life, she favoured tight clothing that outlined her perfect hourglass figure and exposed the milky skin of her back, shoulders and décolletage. Nudity is a constant subtext of her screen costumes, photo shoots and flirtatious interview remarks. (And, yes, even the reports of her death.)“I believe your body should make your clothes look good,” Monroe said in a 1952 interview with Movieland magazine. “You can’t put on womanliness; you have to be womanly.”More than 50 years after her death, we still love to see her romp and wiggle with kittenish eroticism. Her metamorphosis from all-American girl in sweater to heavy-lidded bombshell continues to fascinate us, because it shows how a human body could become a transcendent presence. Maybe the persistent myth that Marilyn wore a size 16 – when her dresses would be a modern size 8-10 – reflect that to us, she’s still larger than life. I believe your body should make your clothes look goodMarilyn Monroe in 1952 But when viewing her clothes in the still, dry hush of a climate-controlled museum, the lights dimmed to prevent fading and discolouring of delicate textiles, it’s impossible to avoid contemplating the absence of the living Monroe. This disembodiment feels melancholy and reverent.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marilyn Monroe stars in the 1953 comedy Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. Photograph: Bendigo Art Gallery and Twentieth Century FoxThe German cultural critic Walter Benjamin wrote that being in the presence of an authentic, original art object carries a frisson that he called its “aura”. Monroe’s clothing is thrilling because, having been perfectly tailored like a second skin, it summons that vanished, famous body. In Bendigo, invisible dress forms have been padded to fill out each garment on display, summoning Monroe’s aura in a way standard resin mannequins cannot.“You complete the picture,” says Tansy Curtin, the Bendigo Art Gallery senior curator who created the Marilyn show. “You envisage Marilyn in that dress.”Marilyn’s aura doesn’t stop with her clothing. Everything she ever owned – from her Elizabeth Arden eyebrow pencil to her brightly painted kitchen tile – is infused with uncanny glamour because she touched and interacted with it. And these incidental objects have become holy relics, obsessively bought, sold and hoarded. The death of each person who actually knew Monroe drives her further into the realm of myth; but our connection to her endures in these tangible fragments.“Their owners revere them,” says Curtin, who met with collectors in the United States, Australia and Barcelona to assemble the exhibition. “They would touch them and they would handle them. Some of her rubs off on those items, you know?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marilyn Monroe and her ‘famous figure’ in How to Marry a Millionaire. Photograph: Bendigo Art Gallery and Twentieth Century FoxMuch like religious relics, there’s a weird history of shonky trading and caching of Monroe’s estate. In the upheaval following her death, her business manager stole two filing cabinets containing her private documents, many of which have since “gone missing”. And at least one item in a 2005 exhibition of Marilynalia – a set of hair rollers said to contain a strand of Monroe’s hair – turned out to have been manufactured after her death.“It’s really hard to tell what’s real,” Curtin says. “What’s the truth – and is there a truth to find?”As officially sanctioned custodians of art and culture, museums can shape cultural truths. Yes, they can bring us closer to the people who create art; but they also risk limiting what’s deemed worthy of celebrating and preserving. In a political climate where cultural institutions must justify their existence in economic terms, celebrity shows certainly draw crowds. But should museums be enshrining celebrity culture? For every exhibition focusing on Monroe, how many other lives go unexamined?“For me, it really helps to tell that story of Marilyn the commodity, because everything that ever belonged to her was sold,” Curtin reflects. The proliferation of her glamorous image can critique cultural commodification – which Andy Warhol’s famous screenprints wittily underline.But her aura – the presence that Monroe so successfully conjured with her body – persists in the things that body touched. Celebrity glamour is enjoyable, but it’s slick and impersonal, remote from lived experience. What fascinates us most is to see a real woman wield, and transcend, her mortal body. That’s what we love when we see her.Marilyn Monroe is at Bendigo Art Gallery from 5 March to 10 July and Marilyn: Celebrating an American Icon is at Murray Art Museum, Albury, until 8 May