Victory for outrage! After they unwittingly let their kids watch an animation featuring scenes of bloodied bunnies tearing the merry hell out of each other, a group of parents “slammed” Channel 5’s decision to screen Watership Down on Easter Sunday. The people screamed so loud, in fact, that the system buckled. If it was released now the film, rated U by the British Board of Film Classification in 1978, would receive a PG rating, according to the BBFC chief David Austin. Not that the film’s being reclassified, but … sweet, meaningless pacification.The violence of Watership Down, a children’s film about a group of rabbits trying to find new home, was “arguably too strong”, Austin told the BBC. “The film has been a U for 38 years, but if it came in tomorrow it would not be,” he said. “Standards were different then.”He’s right. Kids back then were tougher. Born in a recession, they played Connect Four just for fun and wore corduroy without complaint. Watership Down’s challenging moments – Fiver the rabbit’s apocalyptic visions, the bloody turf war between rival broods, the Black Rabbit of Inlé (the bunny Grim Reaper) – would wash like so much gore off a mangled pelt. Oh wait, hold on: reviewers in the hard-nut 70s thought the film a little strong for kiddies, too. Watership Down: the film that frightened me the most Kids haven’t changed, but the BBFC has. Over the years, they’ve got broadly more lenient about sex on screen, while violence – especially sexual violence – has rightly pushed a film into the more restrictive categories. For example, The Wicker Man was given an X certificate in 1973 (roughly equivalent to 18 in 2016). It was reclassified to 15 after the BBFC’s guidelines changed in 2000. The contemporary censors found the violence (the burning of Sergeant Howie in the titular effigy) tame and the sex (blurry nudie shots of women on horseback) pretty silly.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Not many tots are likely to want to watch a tweedy horror about pagan sacrifice. But there are films, some perhaps unsuitable, that older kids do get drawn in by. It’s at the midpoint of the scale – your PGs, 12s and 12As – that the BBFC faces the really tough job. For a start, the market is against them. Franchise-holders such as Marvel and Warner Brothers want to attract young audiences to their superhero flicks. Anything higher than a 12A knocks out a significant portion of their market. This has led to the studios making tame versions of adult stories (Terminator: Genisys was bloodless, as well as charmless) and the BBFC occasionally awarding a 12 to films that, while not viscerally violent or sexually explicit, probably deserve something stronger. Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice is a 12A. There’s an argument that its tone (grim), themes (grownup) and content (thumpy and quite nasty) push it into 15 territory. And that’s the problem when it comes to Watership. Everyone’s idea of what is right and wrong for their kids is different. When we think the BBFC have fouled up, we treat them as if they’re careless child minders, because in a sense, they are. But it’s the parents’ choice to let someone else do the minding. Is watching a bunny tear chunks out of another bunny on Easter Sunday damaging to your kids? Probably not. Would a PG rating, instead of a U, have stopped shattered parents from plonking their sprogs in front of those bunnies at the end of the long weekend? Probably not. Is it important to have a target to vent at – Channel 5, the BBFC – when we slip up while looking after our own kids? Definitely. Before Easter, billboards for one supermarket chain showed off a selection of its seasonal confections. The centrepiece was a chocolate rabbit. “I’ll have the ears,” said the slogan, written by “Harry, aged seven”. He’d seen Watership Down and was ready for the slaughter to begin. No one, not even the BBFC, can fix damage this deep. 