The Missing 9pm, BBC1The pieces of the puzzle are beginning to fall into place in the penultimate episode of this gripping thriller, every pore of which seems to ooze with sadness and malevolence. A flashback to Iraq in 1991 confirms the identity of the third man; meanwhile, back in the present day, the “tide is coming in” for Julien Baptiste as he fights to bring Alice Webster’s captor to justice, if he can get anyone in Eckhausen to believe him. And a very creepy final scene reveals Alice’s fate. Ali CatterallBlack and British: A Forgotten History 9pm, BBC2One of the many great things about historian David Olusoga’s series is the way it tells its story using almost exclusively black talking heads and images of black people today. Tonight, he examines the Victorian moral mission to emancipate slaves, which, while visionary, had a deeply patronising undercurrent – including Queen Victoria’s adoption of a six-year-old slave girl – and would morph into colonial exploitation. David StubbsCrazyhead 9pm, E4The terrifying yet funny demon-bashing series draws to a close in outrageous style. It’s Halloween and brilliant double act Amy (Cara Theobold) and Raquel (Susan Wokoma) go into hiding with only vodka, Jenga and boys for company. But, when it looks as if evil Callum has finally got hold of Raquel, Amy has to brave a fancy dress party to rescue her. That’s if wise-cracking Raquel doesn’t finish him off first with a barrage of “your mum” jokes. Disturbing and excellent. Hannah VerdierKids On the Edge: Last Chance School 10pm, Channel 4Increasing numbers of children in the UK are receiving treatment for mental health disorders. The second of three films on the topic follows pupils at Gloucester House, an educational centre focused on complex emotional, social and behavioural problems. For many, it provides a final throw of the developmental dice. An unflinching and occasionally unsettling examination of how truly indispensable such NHS services can be. Mark Gibbings-JonesThis Time Next Year 8pm, ITVMore personal transformations to behold in ITV’s slightly odd life-change/time-travel show. Forty-year-old nurse Karen from Brighton wants to lose half of her bodyweight so that she can have IVF treatment, and her son Harry can have a new brother or sister. Elsewhere, army medic Lisa from Doncaster – who suffers chronic pain in her leg from a rare neurological condition – makes the momentous decision to have an amputation to improve her quality of life. Ben ArnoldHate Thy Neighbour 10pm, VicelandJamali Maddix spends time with Ben-Zion Gopstein, leader of the Israeli far-right organisation Lehava. While Maddix doesn’t quite have Louis Theroux’s knack for connecting with unpleasant people, there are some revealing moments, such as when the comedian realises Gopstein carries a knife in his car. Documentary sequences are interspersed with standup, including Maddix on why Lehava’s preparations for Gay Pride aren’t much fun. Jonathan WrightNo Such Thing As The News11.15pm, BBC2It has been a tough few weeks for the podcast-turned-TV show that seeks to put a positive spin on current affairs. That’s not to say the puckish quartet of QI researchers have shirked the task of unearthing trivia fascinating enough to leaven even the most depressing news cycle: Andrew Hunter Murray recently seemed particularly delighted to relate the story of a Trump speechwriter whose trousers caught fire in an autocue-related mishap. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceCaptain America: The First Avenger, (Joe Johnston, 2011), 9pm, Film4The origin story of Captain America (Chris Evans): he starts out as little Steve Rogers, too weedy to join the US war effort in 1941 until refugee scientist Stanley Tucci’s secret serum turns him into a one-man army. Which is pretty useful, since his foe is Hugo Weaving’s gruesome Red Skull. There’s a nice retro feel to the story and action that earns the Cap his niche among the myriad superhero sagas. Paul HowlettLive sportChampions League Football: Celtic v BarcelonaCeltic host Barcelona in the Group C clash at Celtic Park. 7pm, BT Sport/ESPNWorld Cup Of GolfCoverage of day one from Melbourne. 1am, Sky Sports 4Test Cricket: Australia v South AfricaOpening day of the third Test with South Africa looking for a whitewash of the hapless Aussies. 3am, BT Sport 3