The last time David Bowie visited Los Angeles he was in a state of “psychic terror” and his artistic sensibility involved a humanoid alien, an exorcism, a musical masterpiece and cocaine – lots of cocaine. It was 1975 and Bowie was the Thin White Duke, a persona possibly only slightly madder than the musician himself at that time.Despite keeping vampire hours and fearing that the swimming pool in his rented home was possessed by the devil Bowie’s eclectic talent manifested in the film The Man Who Fell to Earth, in which he played an alien, and the album Station to Station, one of his best.Four decades later the late rock star has returned and Americans can once again behold unfamiliar, eclectic British talent, except this time Bowie’s role is that of collector, not creator, and the vibe is corporate, not spooky.Dozens of paintings, sculptures and pieces of design from Bowie’s extensive art collection will go on display in LA on Tuesday, part of a global tour before Sotheby’s auctions the entire collection in London in November.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ettore Sottsass – ‘Enorme’ Telephone (1986). Photograph: Sotheby's“We think he would have really enjoyed it, the idea of bringing very British art objects to LA and New York,” said Simon Hucker, the auction house’s senior specialist in modern and postwar British art. “He never lost touch with his Britishness.”Hucker spoke this week as workers put finishing touches to the exhibition in Sotheby’s gallery on the 29th floor of a gleaming tower in Century City, just a few miles, but another world, from one inhabited by Bowie during a 10-month sojourn when he tootled around LA in a battered Volkswagen Beetle and subsisted on milk, peppers and drugs.“It’s a really private collection, very intimate and personal. It’s quiet and meditative. We’ve picked artists that are quite new to an American audience,” said Hucker. Americans who knew Bowie largely through the Duke, Ziggy Stardust, Aladdin Sane and other alter egos may glimpse a different man through Harold Gilman’s Interior (Mrs Mounter), a subtle portrait of an English cleaning lady in a Tottenham Court Road room painted in 1917.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Harold Gilman, Interior (Mrs Mounter), from the David Bowie art collection. Photograph: Sotheby'sIt was one of about 400 pieces Bowie bought during a lifetime of collecting, quietly amassing a trove which includes names like Damian Hirst, Henry Moore and Frank Auerbach plus relatively obscure artists, including Africans and Americans but especially 20th century Brits.Of Auerbach’s densely worked, almost sculptural paintings, Bowie once said: “My God, yeah. I want to sound like that looks.” A legendary rock star whose influence transcended music, fashion and sexuality, Bowie died in January, aged 69, from cancer. He was best known for more than 27 albums which produced a string of hits including Changes, Life on Mars and Ashes to Ashes. Less well known was his passion for art and design, which he studied at technical college. He once confessed to buying art “obsessively and addictively”.Bowie often bought through direct contact with the artists, visiting their studios. He also served on the editorial board of the journal Modern Painters and participated in a famous art-world hoax by hosting a party at Jeff Koons’ Manhattan studio for the launch of a book on a fictional artist, Nat Tate, which fooled many guests.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wyndham Lewis, Circus Scene (1913-14) Photograph: Sotheby'sA spokesman for Bowie’s estate said in July that his family would keep some pieces of the collection with personal significance but, lacking space to keep it all, wished “to give others the opportunity to appreciate – and acquire – the art and objects he so admired”.In addition to LA Sotheby’s will display, some works in New York, Hong Kong and London before the three-day auction, which is estimated to fetch more than £10m. “Eclectic, unscripted, understated: David Bowie’s collection offers a unique insight into the personal world of one of the 20th century’s greatest creative spirits,” said Oliver Barker, the chairman of Sotheby’s Europe.Some Bowie fans, however, have lamented that the collection will be dispersed rather than kept and publicly displayed.Hucker called that expensive and impractical and said the musician would likely have endorsed a big auction that would spotlight lesser known artists alongside famous names. “He really loved these British artists. I think David was possibly frustrated that some ... were not as well known as the likes of Lucian Freud and David Hockney. Having a Lanyon beside a Basquiat does Lanyon a great service.”The LA exhibition showcases the collection’s top lot, Jean-Michel Basquiat’s Air Power, valued up to £3.5m. Bowie played Andy Warhol, whom he knew, in Julian Schnabel’s 1996 biopic of Basquiat.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Hucker, Sotheby’s specialist in modern and postwar British art, beside Jean-Michel Basquiat’s Air Power. Photograph: Rory Carroll for the GuardianThe exhibition also shows Auerbach’s Head of Gerda Boehm, valued up to £500,000 and Hirst’s Beautiful, hello, space-boy painting, valued up to £350,000. In a nod to tinseltown it also includes Patrick Caulfield’s Foyer, a 1973 portrait of a cinema entrance, valued up to £600,000.Alongside them hang more modestly priced works by Percy Wyndham Lewis, Kenneth Armitage, Romuald Hazoume, Johann Fischer and Sir Eduardo Paolozzi. Some garishly coloured lamps, vases and a teapot – Memphis Group works from the 1980s – are priced at a few hundred pounds each.“We were really careful to pick a selection that represents the texture of the collection,” said Hucker. “It’s unusual and unpredictable, as you’d guess with Bowie. It goes into strands, themes, an idea; he collects not just the main players, he collects around the main players. It proves he’s really, really intelligent.”The pop star was a painter himself and sought to translate visual art into soundscapes, said the auctioneer. “Collecting is a creative act. It’s making connections.” Even so, lots were priced on the basis of the art, not their late owner, he said. “If I was in an old lady’s house with this material I’d die of excitement.”The two-day exhibition, which ends on Wednesday, is open to the public but Sotheby’s clearly hopes deep-pocketed buyers will visit a gallery which overlooks the city that once seduced and tormented the boy from Bromley.A famous scene in Cracked Actor, a BBC documentary, showed Bowie being driven through the desert near LA in a black limousine, gaunt and wired, comparing himself to a fly he said was floating in the milk carton he was sipping. His biographer David Buckley said the singer was at that time “in a state of psychic terror”. Bowie subsequently referred to the mid-70s as the darkest period of his life, a cry for help reflected in Station to Station, the album he recorded a few miles up the road from the Sotheby’s gallery, before fleeing to Berlin.• This article was amended on 21 September 2016 to correct the number of albums David Bowie was known for.