Doris Roberts, who played the tart-tongued, endlessly meddling mother on Everybody Loves Raymond, has died. She was 90. Roberts died overnight in her sleep, family spokeswoman Janet Daily said on Monday. Daily was told of the death by Roberts’ son, Michael Cannata.In the past two weeks, the actor had attended a discussion on Hollywood and gender held by the SAG-AFTRA actors’ guild.Roberts won four Emmy awards for her portrayal of Marie Barone on CBS’s Everybody Loves Raymond and received a total of seven nods as best supporting actress for the show. “We loved our mom, the great #DorisRoberts. A wonderful, funny, indelible actress and friend,” Phil Rosenthal, the show’s producer, posted on his Twitter account. The sitcom, which aired from 1996 to 2005, also starred Ray Romano, Brad Garrett and Patricia Heaton. Peter Boyle, who played husband Frank to Roberts’ Marie, died in 2006. “She was funny and tough and loved life, living it to the fullest,” tweeted Heaton. She recalled Roberts as a “consummate professional”. Patricia Heaton (@PatriciaHeaton)To my beloved Marie - RIP. pic.twitter.com/TtZCySQnLKApril 18, 2016Roberts also was known for her role in the 1980s TV detective series Remington Steele. She appeared on stage and in a variety of movies, including The Rose, The Taking of Pelham One Two Three, and Madea’s Witness Protection. Her lengthy list of TV and movie credits included projects from 2015, including the TV movie Merry Kissmas and others slated to be released this year. She was born on 4 November 1925 in St Louis and grew up in New York, Daily said.The actor began her stage career on Broadway in the 1950s, amassing credits that eventually included Neil Simon’s The Last of the Red Hot Lovers and Terrence McNally’s Bad Habits. In early TV appearances, she was seen in episodes of Studio One, The Naked City and The Defenders. Roberts received her first Emmy award in 1983, for her supporting role on the series St Elsewhere. She received a total of 11 nominations for her TV work overall, including her bids for Raymond.An enthusiastic cook, Roberts co-wrote Are You Hungry, Dear? Life, Laughs, and Lasagna, a memoir with recipes, in 2005. Besides her son, she is survived by her daughter-in-law, Jane, and three grandchildren, Kelsey, Andrew and Devon Cannata. 