A video of Tian Tian the giant panda rolling around in the snow has gone viral. Arms over his head, rubbing his face, revelling in the overnight fall, he looks nothing so much like a man in a bear suit. So of course a man dresses up as a panda and mimics the real creature. Humans just can’t help it, can they?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Will the real snowy panda please stand up? Costumed man mimics clipTian Tian is the child we all once were, rejoicing in the imaginary, benevolent snows of yesteryear. Those front-facing eyes – like primates, and even owls – dig into something deep in our psyche. Little wonder the video has been viewed around the world – an antidote to the scenes of nature-induced chaos we’ve been experiencing over here on the east coast of the US, in snowbound Cape Cod, from where I’m writing. It is a wonderful contrast to another animal clip from the weekend: the tragic scenes of dead and dying sperm whales on the British east coast. The one, with its intimations of majestic marine mammals brought low, possibly by human causes; the other, with its idyll of a world beyond ourselves. They both are emblematic of a nature that we instinctively anthropomorphise, and which we cannot help but see through our own physical selves.In our ever-connected, always-on, 24/7 lives, animals are our escape. They provide something entirely other. We wish we could be like them, apparently careless and irresponsible, unsubjected to the demands that rule our existence. The fact that these creatures are often captive, in zoos, introduces a rather more querulous note, one we prefer to ignore. Cultivated as pets, their antics are extensions of our emotional hinterland; they provide us with a backstory. Domesticated, they provide some of us with food.Don’t knock dead whale selfies | Patrick Barkham Of course, it’s not really about the animals at all. These film clips, endlessly, almost religiously replayed, act as windows into our souls – because in a faithless world, we need something to believe in. Our ancestors worshipped animals as intermediaries. They created totems and talismans out of wolves, crows, whales, bears, elephants and monkeys. They ascribed creation myths or trickster status to them. They could be mischievous or vengeful. They helped them see into another world, and reassured us of our dominion.The 15th century orator Pico della Mirandola, in his essay On the Dignity of Man, declared that to be human was to be caught between God and animal: “We have set thee at the world’s centre that thou mayest more easily observe what is in the world.” The Norse believed that two ravens, Huginn (thought) and Muginn (memory) sat on Odin’s shoulders, and flew around the world each day, bringing back its news to the god, like a corvid-borne search engine.Tian Tian’s antics, disseminated by the new oracle of the internet, help us see ourselves. The virtual world is our new solace. In the days after Bowie’s death, it was the sight of the performer, preserved on video and accessible via my laptop, though I was far from home, that enabled me to come to terms with my irrational but retching grief. It was only another kind of worship, another kind of iconography.What you see in this picture says more about you than the kangaroo | Stephen Moss Images remain the most powerful force in our world, more than ever, now that they move. Animals – about which we know almost nothing, certainly little about what they might or might not think – play their part in reconciling us to our mortal state. Look lovingly at Tian Tian, at his antics. What do you really see? A cute and cuddly bear? Or the self you’d rather be?These past few days I’ve been wading through the New England snow to swim in an ice-cold sea. As I do, a pair of young common seals regard me with their puppy eyes – the sort of full-on look which makes you want to hug them, or even wonder if they’re selkies. I’ve no idea what they might be thinking. There might be fear, or ignorance, in their regard. But perhaps my efforts to enter their environment are as funny to them as cat gifs are to us. They probably take one look at my furless body, and conclude how hilarious their fellow mammals are, so ridiculously ill-suited to rolling around in the water, to living in the real world at all.