Not a hair is out of place in Nocturnal Animals (Universal, 15), and I mean that quite literally: I must have spent several minutes of Tom Ford’s luridly luxe melodrama-within-a-melodrama hypnotised by Amy Adams’s expensive copper curtain of a coiffure, marvelling at its serenity amid her character’s anguish. That might sound like a slight, but fashion supremo Ford doesn’t intend any detail of his film’s exhaustive, immaculate styling to go amiss, from the white-cube minimalism of Adams’s LA show home to the artfully creased plaid of Jake Gyllenhaal’s work shirt – at least half of Nocturnal Animals is about people caught in cashmere-cushioned limbo between life and a lifestyle.Some have criticised Ford for hypocrisy here, though his film’s moral ambivalence is its saving grace. As Adams’s freeze-dried gallery owner is chased by the warmer, messier ghosts of her romantic past, in the shape of Gyllenhaal’s earnest ex-husband, Ford himself resists deciding whether or not she was wrong to reject love for frosted fabulousness. (That Gyllenhaal represents the unglamorous path on Planet Ford is something we have to accept.) The rejected man’s act of rapprochement – or is it revenge? – is to write a warped roman à clef of sorts, a Texan gothic merry-go-round of murder that gives the film its silly but savoury other half. Ford’s fantasy of white-trash criminality could hardly be more inauthentically moisturised, but this is a film that thrives on artifice and lacquer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Prettified heartbreak’: Michael Fassbender and Alicia Vikander in The Light Between Oceans. Photograph: Allstar/Touchstone PicturesAlso working in a lavish melodramatic register – albeit of a more frilly, lilac-scented variety – is director Derek Cianfrance. Previously best known for the hard emotional injury of Blue Valentine, he’s a seemingly unlikely match for the florid, prettified heartbreak of The Light Between Oceans (Fox, 12). Yet for the first half of this canny, well-cast costume soap, he proves the perfect one, lancing through the film’s gorgeous surface dressing directly to the acute psychic pain of a lonely woman (Alicia Vikander) repeatedly foiled in her maternal yearnings. Having scurried away to a remote island off the western Australian coast after marrying a taciturn lighthouse keeper (Michael Fassbender), she endures two miscarriages and seizes upon the baby girl mysteriously washed up on their shore; the child’s not theirs, she reasons, but the universe owes her one. The equation, of course, isn’t so simple, but Cianfrance’s film wavers and meanders as proceedings devolve into a sudsy crisis of custody. Luckily, Fassbender and, particularly, Vikander, as a woman turned by grief to shatter-prone alabaster, maintain its intensity of feeling.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Impassive good humour’: Ben Affleck in The Accountant. Photograph: Chuck Zlotnick/API have, I confess, a resilient soft spot for Ben Affleck as a movie star. When not encumbered by stiff superhero trappings, there’s a meat and potatoes density to his screen presence that is oddly reassuring, even – or perhaps especially – when it’s holding down material as solidly disposable as The Accountant (Warner, 15), the kind of thriller that throws a lot of puzzling figures in the viewer’s face just to disguise how basic its founding formula is. With impassive good humour, Affleck plays the eponymous, navy-suited numbers nerd, whose dreary day job masks a ludicrous secret life as a high-stakes, arms-laden underworld book-cooker. The great joke of The Accountant, and of Affleck’s game performance, is that he’s perfect casting for either persona. Viva details a straitlaced suburban housewife’s erotic awakening with gleeful stylistic abandon American writer-director Trey Edward Shults makes one of those sit-up-and-pay-attention debuts with Krisha (Studiocanal, 15), an exquisitely personal, bone-deep affair that circumvents the usual affectations and contrivances of the dysfunctional family drama – chiefly because the family in question is Shults’s own. Well, sort of: casting his own relatives in the key roles of this anxious reunion lends the film’s fine network of character conflicts a ragged emotional conviction. The performance of his aunt, actor Krisha Fairchild, in the title role, is no stunt: she’s astonishing as an estranged black sheep who shows up at her sister’s Thanksgiving gathering and sends shockwaves of fear and resentment through the brood. It’s a familiar tale told with unusual grammar and invigorating energy.Elsewhere, you can read Wendy Ide’s well-placed enthusiasm for Anna Biller’s feminist B-movie sundae The Love Witch, which also hits DVD next week. But if it whets your appetite for more of Biller’s lush, lascivious style of pastiche, Mubi.com is obligingly streaming her little-seen 2007 debut Viva. Rifling through a similarly luminous wardrobe of 60s sexploitation influences to the new film, it details a straitlaced suburban housewife’s erotic awakening with gleeful stylistic abandon and winking stabs at the patriarchy. It’s spottier than the new film, but watching them back-to-back would make for a pretty kitschtastic evening.