As Carol, Cate Blanchett drinks in Rooney Mara, a young girl working in a department store. As the New Jersey police detective Laurel Hester, Julianne Moore is smitten with Ellen Page. As Australian playwright Tim Conigrave, Ryan Corr holds his man from the age of 16 until the end of their too short lives. And, as Danish artist Einar Wegener, who becomes Lili Elbe, Eddie Redmayne resurrects a pioneering transgender journey.Released over the past year, these four films – Carol, Freeheld, Holding the Man and The Danish Girl – have done an excellent job of elucidating sexuality and gender experiences that exist outside the “norm”. What’s more, Blanchett, Mara and Redmayne are all up for Oscars: what validation for queers like me. We exist!These four films connect with broad audiences because they are compassionately layered with complex but universal human truths: desire, the need for love, a fear of rejection. Baftas 2016: How the British academy stole a march on the ‘so straight’ Oscars But all four of those stories are propelled by the struggle for the expression of the characters’ sexual or gender identity and their relationships that exist against repression. These stories, in essence, are all about the fight for the right to exist.That’s an important story to tell but, in the broader sense of cinema, it’s limiting. There’s so much more that needs to be explored in queer film, to provide a full kaleidoscope of our lives. The mainstream success of these four films represents a huge step for our stories, but alone they’re not enough. The 23rd Mardi Gras film festival opens in Sydney this week and, like other celebrations of queer cinema around the world, it will do a much better job of reflecting queer lives as they are actually experienced today. Stories abound here about gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people whose internal and external battles have already been established and, when these people are still exploring their sexuality, there’s often a narrative drive that’s broader and more complex than a simple response to the mainstream climate.There’s another shortcoming with the range of queer stories that have dominated awards season this year: Carol, Freeheld, Holding the Man and The Danish Girl all have white-skinned characters – just like much of the film industry here and abroad. While the Mardi Gras film festival’s offerings are also predominantly white, there are many significant exceptions. Of the more than a dozen of this year’s Mardi Gras films I have previewed, my favourite is the Thai film How to Win at Checkers (Every Time), written and directed by the Korean-American Josh Kim. In the film, an 11-year-old boy, Oat (Ingkarat Damrongsakkul), tries to save his 21-year-old gay brother Ek (Thira Chutikul) from being drafted in a corrupt lottery in the town square.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ek’s sexuality is accepted by his family; this is more a story about economic disparity – Ek’s more affluent boyfriend, Jai, can bribe his way out of the draft – and the ties of blood and friendship, mixed with the seamier side of the Thai bar, drug and prostitution scene. As Hollywood protests that it cannot find transgender actors to play transgender roles, transgender actress Natarat Lakha is a scene-stealer as Kitty – two years into taking hormone pills, she proudly shows off her bulging groin in a one-piece bathing suit.There are two terrific Mexican films in the festival with transgender characters, too. Lonely Stars, a comedy directed by Fernando Urdapilleta, stars Dana Karvelas as Valentina and Jorge Arriaga as Joana, nightclub workers whose boss controls them through fear of violence. Karvelas, also known as androgynous performance artist Ysak Mantu, describes herself as a “fine, classy travesty” and “something apart, underground … between the sexes”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Meanwhile, Carmin Tropical is fascinating noir directed by Rigoberto Perezcano, starring Jose Pecina as Mabel, a transgender nightclub singer. She identifies her gender as “muxe”, a local word for a third sex, who is trying to solve the murder of a fellow muxe, Juchitan.Ellen Page: ‘Being out became more important than any movie’ I also enjoyed Naz & Maalik, the story of two African-American Muslim teenage lovers who spend their days hawking lottery tickets, snacks, perfumes and Catholic saint cards in Brooklyn. Yes, the film was written and directed by a white guy (Jay Dockendorf), and the pair are stuck in that old trope of trying to keep their sexuality secret from their families, but the narrative drive here is Islamophobia: the FBI is following them.This year’s Australian showcase film at the festival is Downriver, directed by Grant Scicluna. In Downriver, which made its debut at the Melbourne international film festival, Reef Ireland plays a young man released from jail after serving his sentence for his part in the drowning of a child. While most of the characters are same-sex attracted, and there’s quite a bit of male-on-male sex, sexuality is almost beside the point: here is a story of guilt and redemption that asks what culpability a child has for killing another. (One wonders what mainstream cinema opportunities Downriver will have, though; Jonnie Leahy’s life-affirming Skin Deep was shown at last year’s festival to acclaim and has a few non-festival screenings this year, but never received a general release. An “oligopoly” of Hollywood studios and distribution arms tie up Australian cinema screens, overwhelmingly programming heteronormative films and TV shows that still take straight, cisgender status as a given.)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In Colombian film The Firefly, directed by Ana Maria Hermida, a woman finds herself drawn to her late brother’s fiancée – it’s as much a study of grief as latent same-sex attraction. Another highlight is Remembering the Man, which dovetails archival footage and sound recordings of the Holding The Man playwright Tim Conigrave, along with his friends’ recollections of Conigrave’s relationship with long-term partner John Caleo. The documentary had a difficult gestation, including rejection for airtime by ABC – in light of the success of the play’s film adaptation, this was a bad call.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest From Switzerland, What’s Between Us has a great performance by Ursina Ladi, whose husband leaves her for another man; from Sweden, Alexandra-Therese Keining’s Girls Lost features three outcast girls who swallow a potion and are given cisgender bodies and find they are treated differently.Taiwan, Israel, Japan, Germany, Canada, France, Argentina, the UK and the Netherlands are all represented on the program, which features a bunch from the US too. Perhaps you should consider getting along to the festival, and seeing human sexuality in a rainbow of permutations, before blindingly white Oscar night.Presented by QueerScreen, the Mardi Gras film festival runs in cinemas around Sydney from 18 February–3 March