When I think of an artists’ colony, my mind wanders to that very average 1994 Hugh Grant film, Sirens, which depicted the life of the painter Norman Lindsay (played by Sam Neill) and the bohemian characters (Kate Fischer, Portia de Rossi, Elle Macpherson) who surrounded him in his country idyll in the Blue Mountains.It was all art, nude bathing in bubbling brooks and talk of culture and nature and morals – an exaggerated version of how artists might actually live.Ariel Levy, Krissy Kneen, Cat Marnell – literary highlights for Australia in March I am in an artists’ colony at the moment, four hours down the road in Bundanon, and I can tell you it is nothing like that. This colony is more like a country within a country – a republic of creation. On the south coast of New South Wales, gifted to the state by the painter Arthur Boyd (I’m writing this actual sentence while sitting on Boyd’s nice floral couch), there’s nothing to do, nowhere to go – you are just expected to work on your art, or think about it, or read. We are discouraged from swimming – the Shoalhaven river that runs along the border of the property is wide, fast-flowing and brackish – and I don’t fancy drowning before I finish my book.My fellow artists in the colony are an Indigenous hip-hop collective, a couple of visual artists (one of whom does almost brutalist architectural-style drawings), a couple of writers, a musician and a dancer. Nor do we don’t hang out talking for hours. We’re here to work. During the week when I went to visit one of the musicians (I needed to use his shower, my hot water was broken), his voice was croaky from lack of use and he’d had only a few hours sleep the night before. He’d had a creative breakthrough of sorts and had stayed up most of the night composing. He talked at a pace, then apologised for rambling; he hadn’t seen anyone in days.Most people stick to themselves but on Saturday night, one of the writers invited everyone to her cottage and we had a roast beef dinner, saw and trapped a funnel web spider and stepped over wombats on the walk home. The next morning the dancer led a movement class, which we did while the musician played the music he’d composed this week. It was like a summer camp for creative grownups. Then we all went our separate ways, to our studios overlooking fields of kangaroos.  Even a successful author in Australia doesn’t earn enough to live on, owing to the demographics of the country Artists’ colonies emerged in the late 19th and 20th century in European villages that welcomed a mix of a floating and permanent population of artists. The first world war ended a lot of them but their spirit can still be found in places such as Bundanon – intermingling different types of creative people in a rural setting, free from distractions.In these philistine years, when artists are treated with contempt by the government and are being starved out of creation, the fact that such a place exists feels like a miracle. Artists in this country are used to the spoils of their craft being meted out in a spiritual, not material, currency. The low four-figure advances for many Australian novelists are essentially a token amount – the real prize is the permission from the cultural mandarins to create and distribute the work. There are other consolation prizes – invitations to writers’ festivals, where you might be put up in a nice hotel, or being taken out for dinner by your publisher – but few go into the arts to get rich. Authors in Australia can expect to earn, on average, $12,900 a year and cuts to arts funding under this government have hit artists.The novelist Frank Moorhouse explores the knotty question of writers and money in an excellent essay in this month’s Meanjin. Could, he wonders, a fund be set up to support senior writers on renewable “long term (say 10-year) national contracts”. This would get around the fact that even a successful author in Australia doesn’t earn enough to live on owing to the demographics of the country (small population, therefore small sales). Ibsen, points out Moorhouse, received a lifetime pension from the Norwegian government when he was 38; it enabled some of the finest plays of the 19th century to be written. Paganism with a $16 paella: why my love for festivals takes me way back | Brigid Delaney But artists’ colonies do fill a bit of the gap. Where else could you do writing workshops then play tennis in the hot Florida sun with the novelist Geoff Dyer, as my friend the writer Virginia Lloyd did. Or find yourself in one Australian retreat playing “naked chat roulette” with erotic fiction writers – as another writer friend did – who is still alarmed by the experience (which, come to think of it, sounds not a million miles from Sirens). Or have, as a poet friend of mine put it, Terrible Affairs I Should Not Have Had: The Residency Years.Where else could you have the time and space to do the work?These places of creation are a great solace to impoverished and isolated artists. It gives them a community, and space and time to create. It also takes them seriously. After all, isn’t most art a confidence trick? It is no accident that two of the most magical arts residencies in Australia – Bundanon and Varuna in the Blue Mountains – were bequeathed by artists themselves (the family of the writer Eleanor Dark bequeathed Varuna). They know what it’s like to create something when the barriers are against them.