Graham Greene, who has died aged 80, was one of the leading publishers of his generation, as well as giving huge public service in an impressive range of activities, usually unpaid. As managing director of Jonathan Cape from 1966 to 1988, he built this small, cottage-industry publisher into a top name for developing outstanding authors and publishing quality books, both fiction and non-fiction. Benign and genial in manner, Graham had a keen eye for literary talent and a managerial ability to soothe artistic egos. He nurtured young authors so that they would remain long on the Cape lists, and greatly appreciated the commercial and marketing skills of his charismatic partner, Tom Maschler; together they were a formidable team.Eventually, Cape was sold to the giant Random House. Graham retired from the business as he recognised that he was personally and professionally unsuited to the ruthless new publishing world, driven by accountant directors seeking to maximise short-term profits from illiterate celebrity authors who often did not read, let alone write, their ghost-written memoirs. He recently said that “in all my publishing career, I never asked myself how many copies a book would sell. I simply asked: is it good?”At the peak of his pro bono work, his reach through the British cultural establishment was astonishing. He served as chairman of the British Museum, of the Museums and Galleries Commission, of the National Book League and of the New Statesman. He was a long-time president of the Publishers Association and on the board of the British Council. He worked and travelled hard for the GB-China Centre and, although not strikingly musical, was a trustee of Garsington Opera, helping to steer its successful move from Garsington Manor in Oxfordshire to Wormsley Park, Buckinghamshire. His step was light and his touch was soft, but his networking was intensive and frequently effective. He persuaded people to get things done.Always a skilled negotiator, Graham was often used to resolve complex disputes, not least because he was totally honest and would be trusted by all sides. He had learned about mediation from his friend Lord (Arnold) Goodman, who was Harold Wilson’s wise choice to seek compromise in his many political difficulties – though Graham was less flamboyant than Goodman and modestly never sought to claim praise for his negotiating successes.His 24 years as a British Museum trustee (1978-2002), culminating as chairman, was his peak public achievement. It was briefly marred by a newspaper campaign against the new Norman Foster design for the museum courtyard and the refurbishment of the wonderful reading room. The experience was painful for Graham, who was sensitive and had, with his close friend and fellow trustee Claus Moser, raised the cost – around £100m – mainly from private donors.Graham was gentle and patrician in style, always polite and kindly, a fine example of an old-fashioned gentleman, most at ease at his London flat in Albany, Piccadilly, at his modest house in Wootton, Oxfordshire, or in Italy, reading a Victorian novel or biography.He was driven not by any burning ambition for advancement, but by his deep liberal and humane values and by his concern to promote a civilised cultural society in Britain. He also passionately supported its membership of the European cultural family. The recent referendum left him feeling very low and inclined to spend more time in Italy. He had been long depressed by the dominance of Thatcherite commercial and material values in Britain.In 1974, backed by Harold Evans, then editor of the Sunday Times (and by friends in No 10, while Wilson looked on amused), he had fought to publish Richard Crossman’s indiscreet diaries. This was fiercely resisted by the cabinet secretary, Sir John Hunt, who angrily mobilised full Whitehall power to protect cabinet secrecy, finally losing in the high court. It is not clear today that any small modern publisher would take the financial and legal risks involved on behalf of the principle of freedom to write and publish in which Graham so deeply believed. Its success of course did have commercial benefits.It was a serious reflection on Whitehall that Graham did not receive the knighthood that he richly deserved for his public service (in 1986 he was appointed CBE for his publishing achievements). Some insiders believed that this denial was a petty punishment for his brave and successful campaign while chairman of the British Museum to resist the government’s intention to impose charges on museum entrance. For him it was another liberal principle that all people should have free access to their cultural heritage.Hugh Gaitskell was his great hero, and a large portrait of the Labour leader dominated his sitting room in Albany. He naturally moved on to support Roy Jenkins after Gaitskell died in 1963. For Graham the 1960s were in some ways a peak era of his life, because of the great social reforms Jenkins introduced in Wilson’s 1964-70 government, liberalising laws on race, gender, homosexuality, capital punishment, theatre censorship and abortion. They transformed and civilised British society in a way Graham wholly approved of – though he himself remained deeply traditional in his own style and behaviour.In the early 1980s he moved actively to support Jenkins in founding the Social Democratic party. The hard-left Trotskyist movement then seeking to take over the Labour party was to him almost as bad as the rightwing reactionaries he so disliked: his life was spent opposing illiberalism. More recently, he expressed despair as the hard left renewed its attack on Labour, and was especially shocked at accusations of leftwing anti-semitism.In recent years he spent more time reading and drinking wine at his small Italian castle, which was being developed successfully by his son, Alexander, and stepdaughter, Charlotte, with vineyards and for social events.Son of Helga (nee Connolly) and Hugh Carleton Greene, Graham was born in Berlin, where his father, who would later become director general of the BBC, was a Daily Telegraph journalist reporting on the Nazi regime. Graham was educated at Eton and University College, Oxford. He was the nephew of the novelist of the same name, with whom he had a mixed relationship. He once observed with sadness that the Greenes had “a dark gene” and added that “few of them were very nice people”. Graham was an exception to that. To the many who knew him closely and loved him, his genius for loyal friendship will be remembered.He was twice married, to Judith Gordon-Walker and then to Sally Horton, and twice divorced, though he maintained civilised friendships with both. He is survived by his son and two stepchildren.• Graham Carlton Greene, publisher, born 10 June 1936; died 10 October 2016