Bram Stoker took few things in life more seriously than the composition of Dracula. His notes, charts and endless annotations for the 1897 bloodsucking opus reveal all the early sketches, shopworn ideas and characterisations that were wisely jettisoned. But not even Mina Harker in a Dracula-induced trance could have foreseen that another version of Dracula would be created in Iceland in 1901, in turn creating its own mysterious legend and strange lore.Valdimar Ásmundsson, the founder, owner and editor of newspaper Fjallkonan decided in 1900 to serialise Dracula, and that he’d handle the translation himself. But Ásmundsson took more than a few liberties, and created a distant cousin of the book he was charged with rendering into Icelandic. His “translation”, Makt Myrkranna (Powers of Darkness), is so tonally different that you wonder if any translator before has had the gumption to go this far in reinventing an original text.While Stoker’s novel has a lot of dialogue, Ásmundsson replaced the talk with a lot of walk; barrelhouse action, really. Jonathan Harker’s trip to Transylvania is two-thirds longer in Makt Myrkranna; the rest of the novel, conversely, has been massively reduced. The epistolary format of the original is replaced by an omniscient narrator. Adding an Icelandic twist, Ásmundsson has plonked in numerous references to Norse literature. There are fewer bromantic moments between Van Helsing and his vampire-chasing mates – and larger doses of lasciviousness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not above a little sauce … Christopher Lee in Hammer Horror’s version of Bram Stoker’s original tale. Photograph: Allstar/Hammer FilmStoker himself wasn’t above a dash of sauce; with all Dracula’s references to fellatio and bodily fluids, he probably would have enjoyed the Porky’s films. But Stoker’s metaphors serve deeper, dark concepts: the idea of an antichrist, the blood-sucking serving as a compelling, hellish inversion of communion. Makt Myrkranna, conversely, could have had the subtitle Lust in a Cape. Joseph Harker frequently remarks on the “bosom” of scantily clad women, whether covered in blood or jewels, and other entirely new moments are added. He finds a dead peasant girl, watches Dracula preside over a sacrificial ceremony. There is even a new reference to the Thames Torso Murders, which predate Jack the Ripper’s killings by a year: “Numerous parts of the body showed up in various parts of London – until a complete body minus head and upper chest, was reconstructed.” All in all, this is one doozy of a coach ride along the Borgo Pass.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Makt Myrkranna by Valdimar Asmundsson as it appeared in the newspaper Fjallkonan in 1901. Photograph: FjallkonanSo what happened? Was Makt Myrkranna a translation, or did Ásmundsson just think he could do better than Stoker? The question resided in its own metaphorical coffin until 2014, when Drac scholar Hans Corneel de Roos found it in Iceland. To this day, the book remains a mystery of motives — Ásmundsson’s, and, more interestingly still, Stoker’s own.In a preface to Makt Myrkranna, Stoker wrote: “I had to do no more than to remove some minor events that do not matter to the story, and so let the people involved report their experiences in the same plain manner in which these pages were originally written … otherwise I leave the manuscript unchanged.” Ásmundsson certainly did not leave the manuscript unchanged, but it is possible that he wasn’t working with Stoker’s final, much loved text. Was Ásmundsson actually using one of Stoker’s early drafts or notes, reanimating the story for a foreign market?In 1988, fans were shocked when a number of Beatles outtakes were leaked on the Ultra Rare Trax bootlegs. Perhaps that is what is going on with Makt Myrkranna: it’s an outtake of sorts, based on an alternate version of Stoker’s evolving vision which he packed off to Iceland, almost like the Beatles popping an outtake of a song on a single released solely for the Japanese market. The novel – or novel partial – ended up with Ásmundsson, for what his newspaper called an “abridged translation”.We may never know who – Stoker or Ásmundsson – was responsible for what is in Makt Myrkranna. Regardless, our familiar, beloved count has a wintry doppelgänger, thanks to this strange, pleasing curiosity of a book. Almost makes you wonder, in proper vampire fashion, if there are others out there. Powers of Darkness: The Lost Version of Dracula by Bram Stoker and Valdimar Ásmundsson is published in English translation by Gerald Duckworth and Co