While researching for her debut novel, Burial Rites, Hannah Kent came across a peculiar newspaper article. The clipping, from 1826, noted that an Irish woman had been acquitted of a serious crime because she claimed she had been trying to banish a fairy. Kent returned to the case a few years later and immersed herself in Irish folklore and folk medicine. The result is her second novel, The Good People, which grapples with morality, grief and the nature of faith in a remote southwestern Irish village in the 1820s. Central to its plot is Nóra Leahy, a woman grieving for the husband and daughter she has lost, both in the same year. Taxed with the care of her young grandson, who can neither talk nor walk, Nóra seeks help from a healer, Nance Roche, who the villagers believe can consort with fairies.“Women like Nance did exist,” says Kent. She mentions the 19th century herbalist Bridget Ellen “Biddy” Early, who was seen as an “intermediary between the ordinary world and world of fairies. People said she had foresight, that she could heal people of inexplicable ills.”Burial Rites by Hannah Kent Fairy lore was an integral part of the fabric of rural Irish culture at the time, says Kent. Children who looked unusual or behaved aberrantly were accused of being “swept” away by the fairies and of a changeling, or fairy child, replacing them. Such beliefs often had serious consequences: an infamous case involved a 25-year-old woman, Bridget Cleary, who was tortured and murdered by her husband and relatives. They believed her to be a changeling and maintained they had killed the fairy replacement rather than Bridget herself. Irish folklore provided explanations for and solutions to otherwise taboo issues, including mental illness, disability and even marital problems (in Kent’s novel, a long-suffering wife tries to set a piseóg, or curse, on her physically abusive husband). Being able to blame the fairies when in a helpless situation afforded people a certain sense of agency, Kent says. The novel allowed her to probe the psychology of folklore belief as both a means of empowerment and entrapment.The rituals and remedies that feature in The Good People are historically accurate, Kent says. Several are grotesque: pig dung rubbed onto a pregnant abdomen; chicken’s blood dripped around a house to create a protective perimeter; a child bathed in a seizure-inducing broth of foxglove. Some were drawn from Robert William Wilde’s book Irish Popular Superstitions and others from Seán Ó’Súilleabháin’s A Handbook of Irish Folklore. These rituals may seem strange to the modern mind, Kent says, but some folk remedies bear lasting wisdom. The flower St John’s wort, for example, has been shown to be as effective as antidepressants in treating mild to moderate depression. Mint is a repellent against fleas and moths. And foxglove – which, in the novel, temporarily poisons Nóra’s grandson – is the source of an extract used to treat cardiac arrhythmia. Lack of knowledge about safe quantities of foxglove and how to administer it compromised the plant’s efficacy, Kent says. “It started to acquire this reputation as a supernatural plant.”Several years of research went into the novel, culminating in a six-week trip to Ireland last year. “Having never lived there, I knew I needed to spend a lot of acquainting myself with pre-famine 19th century Ireland,” she says. In addition to travellers’ journals and academic articles, Kent read Irish fiction widely, including works by Liam O’Flaherty, Claire Keegan, Éilís Ní Dhuibhne, Eddie Lenihan and Angela Bourke. Seamus Heaney is a favourite poet. “There’s a lovely sensory quality to [Heaney’s] work,” Kent says. “You feel the stickiness of the blackberries in your hand and the mud on your shoe.” Kent’s own writing has the same visceral immediacy. There are similarities between The Good People and Kent’s bestselling first novel, Burial Rites, which told the story of Agnes Magnúsdóttir, the last person to be executed in Iceland. Both books are set in the 1820s and focus on death, grief and vilified women but Kent says parallels between Burial Rites and The Good People occurred more by coincidence than by design. “I haven’t really sought to carve out a niche for myself as a writer of miserable people in cold places,” she jokes.Hannah Kent on north Iceland Kent, who co-founded the Australian literary journal Kill Your Darlings, found significant critical and commercial success with her first novel. Burial Rites won numerous prizes, including the ABIA literary fiction book of the year and the people’s choice in the 2014 Victorian premier’s literary awards. It was also shortlisted for the Guardian first book award, the Baileys women’s prize for fiction and the Stella prize, to name a few, and was translated into nearly 30 languages. Did the success of Burial Rites play on Kent’s mind as she wrote The Good People? “Trepidation and some anxiety” was involved, she says. “I was hugely grateful to have a readership and I didn’t want to disappoint them … and also at the same time I knew I wanted to extend myself and to continue to develop as a writer.“I think it’s damaging for anyone, whether or not they’ve been published previously, to write with reception in mind. My way around it was give myself back up to the love of writing.” Kent’s passion for the craft will take on a new form for her next project. Kent recently received funding from Screen Australia’s Gender Matters program to work with Carver Films on a psychological thriller called Reincarnation. “I’ve never done anything to do with screen before but at the same time I really enjoy looking at the visual in my own writing,” she says. “This will be an interesting challenge.”• The Good People is published by Picador Australia and is out on 27 September