A statue of a cartoon dog greets me as I enter Carl Reiner’s home in Beverly Hills. It was one of the last things Estelle – the late wife of the writer, actor and director – ordered from a catalogue. Everywhere I look, there are stacks of books and DVDs, not to mention a prominent bust of Shakespeare, and a chair where comedian Mel Brooks, Reiner’s best friend, sits every night as the two watch Jeopardy! and exchange quips over dinner. On the sofa beside Reiner sits Dick Van Dyke, dressed in a dapper beige blazer and navy slacks. When the actor stands up, I feel very short. He’s sharp, thoughtful and jovial as he chats with his old friend. Reiner, now 94, is still every inch the charmer. Every few minutes, he stops to scribble down notes as he thinks of something that tickles him. “Start talking, something will come” – that’s his philosophy on creativity, and he has spent his latter years knocking out an impressive number of books, with titles such as What I Forgot to Remember and I Just Remembered. His latest is Why & When the Dick Van Dyke Show Was Born, a behind-the-scenes look at the slapstick show that may mark the dawn of the modern sitcom. It’s exactly 50 years since the last episode aired, and 55 since audiences first fell in love with Van Dyke’s character Rob, the lanky head writer for the fictional Alan Brady Show. His wife Laura was played by Mary Tyler Moore, while Reiner was his egocentric boss.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We were not allowed to sleep in the same bed’ … The Dick Van Dyke Show, 1963. Photograph: CBS Photo Archive/Getty ImagesReiner went on to direct films such as The Jerk and The Man with Two Brains, later popping up on shows and films such as Two and a Half Men and Ocean’s Eleven. But as far as he’s concerned, The Dick Van Dyke Show will always be his best work. When he first wrote it, he was meant to be the star. He filmed the pilot, but it didn’t sing. Producer Sheldon Leonard asked Reiner to give it another go, but he was reluctant – he didn’t want to fail twice. “You won’t,” said Leonard. “We’ll get someone better to play you.” Van Dyke was that person and the rest is TV history.Van Dyke, now 90, says he still gets letters from young kids. “They watch our show and say, ‘What happened to comedy?’ Our show makes them really laugh, unlike what they are seeing now.” “There are very few satirical shows on now,” agrees Reiner, leading me upstairs to his office. Beside his nine Emmys sits the typewriter he banged out all those award-winning shows on. There are photo albums and a set of letters he exchanged with his wife during the second world war, when he was serving as a radio operator and French translator, before joining an entertainment unit that toured the Pacific. By the window is a sculpture of a horse made for him by Estelle. On the wall, there’s a jokey clock she bought him. The two were married for 65 years: “She was brilliant,” he says. “She was my everything.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Still every inch the charmers … at home with Carl Reiner and Dick Van Dyke. Photograph: Lawrence O'FlahavanSomething suddenly makes Reiner remember the blacklist days. One morning in 1954, he found himself embroiled in Hollywood’s communist witch-hunt, as two men in black came knocking. It was the FBI. He answered the door in his boxer shorts and decided to give them nothing but charm. “Come in, gentlemen, come in. How do you guys feel about coffee?” “We’d love some.” “No, I was asking if you had any.” They quizzed him on his voting habits, the fact he’d compered shows for known political activists, then they hit him with the big question: “Do you know any communists?” “I’m sure I do,” he replied. “Would you tell us who they are?” “Communists don’t tell you they are communists. If they told you, you wouldn’t be coming to me. But I know they’re out there because you guys keep looking.” The men didn’t smile. They just thanked him and left, never to be heard from again. “It was my best acting job,” he says. “Charmed the shit out of them.” Such a witch-hunt, he says, would be a little harder now. “But who knows? Who thought a guy named Trump would get such a big following?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I won the worst accent competition hands down’ … Van Dyke in Mary Poppins. Photograph: APAs we wander back downstairs, he continues: “Anybody who tells a very big lie is paid attention to. If you say, ‘Shakespeare could not write. He was illiterate,’ everybody says, ‘Well, what do you know that we don’t?’ That’s what Trump does all the time.” Van Dyke, firmly in the Bernie Sanders camp, pipes up: “That kind of bravado suggests there’s something missing. I think if you hit the right note with Trump, he’d crumble. There’s an insecurity in there.”Reiner doesn’t care whether it’s Sanders or Hillary Clinton who wins the race to the White House, just so long as it isn’t anyone else. “I need to see a woman president in my lifetime,” he says. “Or the first Jewish president.” “Then we’ll have to have a gay president,” suggests Van Dyke. Reiner replies: “That would be nice.”Now that they’re both pushing a century, they’re thrilled that these days almost anything goes – especially in the world of television. “Mary and I had twin beds,” says Van Dyke. “We were not allowed to be seen to sleep in the same bed. Look at TV now: there’s practically nothing you can’t get away with.”Reiner remembers a first world war sketch he wrote for Your Show of Shows in the 1950s. As soldiers gaze up at planes about to drop bombs on them, Sid Caesar yells: “Damn you! Damn you!” The censors said: “You can’t say damn.” So they ended up changing it to: “Darn you! Darn you!” Reiner ends his memory with an envious observation: “The word fuck is a perfectly good word now.” “I never minded Richard Pryor saying it,” says Van Dyke, “but so many comedians use it constantly instead of good material. That’s when it gets offensive.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Slapstick landmark … Van Dyke and Reiner recreate The Dick Van Dyke Show. Photograph: CBS via Getty ImagesIt would be easy for both men to rest on their laurels, but Reiner and Van Dyke are both very active on social media. Reiner tweets a combination of rants about Trump, adages he’s forgotten the endings to, and “puns worth passing on”. These include: “2 silk worms had a race. They ended in a tie. A dog gave birth to puppies on the road & was cited for littering.” Van Dyke, meanwhile, leads an a cappella quartet and dabbles in computer animation, having started 25 years ago on simpler systems. “It moves so fast I can hardly keep up,” he says. “But it’s fascinating – the kind of thing you lose hours doing.” He’s also itching to do an autobiographical one-man stage show, and take on some serious acting – King Lear, perhaps. It’s a long way from Bert, the cockney chimney sweep in Mary Poppins.“Did you see that 60th anniversary Poppins thing where I danced?” says Van Dyke. “Yes!” says Reiner. “I was worried for your life. He was dancing on rooftops, that chimney sweep thing. When he first filmed it, he told me he was scared of falling and killing himself – and now he’s 64 years old or whatever it is.” “I’m 90!” “And he’s still doing it! I couldn’t believe it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Van Dyke performed Step in Time, the frenetic Poppins number, with dancers at least 60 years his junior. “I heard one of them say, ‘We really better get our knees up now.’ God it was fun. I have to retire – I can’t top that.” Reiner quickly chimes in: “You can’t retire.” Van Dyke recalls a TV show where Judi Dench and Jeremy Irons were asked to name the worst British accent in history. “I won hands down,” he says. But there’s one thing that puzzles him to this day: “There was a whole cast of British people and nobody said, ‘Y’know, you’ve got to work on that accent a bit.’ Nobody said a word.” He may joke about it, but the idea of retiring is anathema to Van Dyke. “When I rise in the morning, I’m much better off if I have somewhere to go.” He works out at the gym every day – and he’s not even the oldest person there. There’s always a 97-year-old man there with his trainer.“My brain is still going but my feet and the rest of me barely make it,” says Reiner. His health may be ebbing away, “but not this part,” he says, tapping his head. “I think I write better than I used to.” Ageing often brings with it crippling bids for perfection, rather than the spontaneous, judgment-free creativity of the young. “Go back to being younger,” nods Reiner. “You can polish after, you can improve later, but the original thing that hits you in the head is usually right.”Van Dyke has a final revelation: he has found love. “She’s changed my whole life,” he says. “She sings, she dances, she even makes balloon animals! The other day she made a penguin. One day, she was in the kitchen doing the dishes and she had her tap shoes on, and she was tap dancing as she washed up. How can you not love a woman like that?” He thinks people are too afraid of getting old. “Ageism has become the last acceptable form of discrimination,” he says. “They make fun of old people constantly. There is an obsession with youth. But as you get older, you take a better look around – and life seems more beautiful than ever.” 