Had it with studying? Recent scientific studies suggest that procrastination can actually make us more creative. So instead of another Big Bang Theory binge, here are a few inspiring internet wormholes…Adult Swim A day inside Adult Swim: the craziest TV network in America Cartoon Network’s late-night “alternative” slot is home to some of the most boundary-pushing TV out there. Tune in for a mix of offbeat animated series such as Bob’s Burgers and The Boondocks, Japanese anime, and trippy cult comedies like Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!. www.adultswim.comWikiverseIf you’ve ever wanted to reimagine falling down Wikipedia holes as an epic interstellar journey, this visually stunning website lets you do just that. Freewheel through the infinite Wikigalaxy, where constellations of articles on simil subjects are linked by colourful meteor paths that act like literal information superhighways. I made a round trip from Dita Von Teese to Medieval philosopher Boethius and Russian history – it never ends. Simply put, this is the coolest mind map ever.http://wikiverse.io      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Wikiverse Photograph: WikiverseHazlittThis Canadian culture magazine is like a leftfield, subscription-less New Yorker. A lot of its articles are geared towards literature, but there are also first-person memoirs and cultural longreads for when you want to lose yourself in a decent piece of writing. These include an astonishing deep dive into the tragic real-life inspiration behind Nabokov’s Lolita, and Jess Zimmerman’s recent essay that xplores how we view the female appetite for food, sex and beyond.www.hazlitt.netNational Geographic’s Instagram Photo by @dguttenfelder. A diver plunges into a deep swimming hole in Firehole Canyon, one of two swimming spots inside Yellowstone National Park. This month marks the 100-year anniversary of the US National Park Service. For @NatGeo, I was lucky enough to spend my past year photographing the people and wildlife who share Yellowstone and the land surrounding it. For more photographs of the US National Parks please follow along at @dguttenfelderA photo posted by National Geographic (@natgeo) on Aug 27, 2016 at 1:35pm PDTYou don’t have to be an amateur wildlife conservationist to find the NatGeo feed endlessly fascinating. Their diverse selection of photos and stunning time-lapse videos make you feel as though you’re on the set of a global nature documentary. Of course, if the world’s rampant environmental destruction continues at the same pace, these pristine landscapes won’t be there for us to gawk at for much longer.www.instagram.com/natgeo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Modern Love Podcast Photograph: Courtesy of The New York Times and WBURModern LoveThe podcast serialisation of the New York Times’ popular column sees celebrities narrate compelling real-life confessions on love and relationships submitted by its readers. As you’d expect, the act of hearing these stories read aloud brings them to life in a way that’s perfectly suited to the medium. Although occasionally there is no agony-aunt style resolution to these universal dilemmas, the series is strangely addictive, despite being a tad sentimental at times.www.wbur.org/modernlove 