Born in Dundee, Brian Cox, 70, won an Olivier in 1988 for his Titus Andronicus for the RSC. In 2001, he was awarded an Emmy for his portrayal of Hermann Göring in the TV mini series Nuremberg; his more recent TV work includes Bob Servant Independent and War And Peace. His films include Braveheart, two Jason Bourne movies and Zodiac. He is currently filming Churchill, in which he plays the title role. He is married to the actor Nicole Ansari-Cox, has four children and lives in New York.When were you happiest?I’ve had a lot of happiness in my life: 1) the birth of my children; 2) getting into Lamda when I was 17; 3) meeting my wife; 4) and the renewal of our marriage vows and my 60th birthday.What is your greatest fear?Poverty.What is your earliest memory?Listening to King George VI on the wireless when I was about two.Which living person do you most admire, and why?My friend Billy Connolly, for his incredible sense of humour and wit. But greater than that is Billy’s courage and sheer chutzpah, to take his Parkinson’s and make it central to his brilliance as a performer.What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?Weight issues and untidiness.What is the trait you most deplore in others?The inability to learn from mistakes.What is your most treasured possession?A photo of my late father fixing a buttonhole rose in my lapel when I was about three years old and sitting on a tricycle.What is your favourite word?Rigour.What was your most embarrassing moment?A few years ago at a dinner: the subject of conversation was the casting of a particular role in a friend’s project and a certain well-known name came up – a name I have since grown to admire but, at the time, I was rather dismissive of. As I was going on rather disparagingly about this gentleman’s ability, I became aware of a cool shift in the atmosphere. Then, the partner of my friend with the project, turning to an extremely glamorous woman on the other side of the table, said with extraordinary panache, “Brian, I don’t believe you have met Valerie. Valerie is the fiancee of…” You guessed it!Who would play you in the film of your life?A really good and committed actor with a tremendous sense of humour and a streak of moodiness. And tremendously sexy, too, of course.Which book changed your life?In Search Of The Miraculous, by Pyotr Ouspensky: it introduced me to radical ideas about consciousness, to the idea that man spends most of his life in a state of sleep.Vinnie Jones: ‘My favourite smell? Flowers’ What is your guiltiest pleasure?Liquorice. And cannabis.What do you owe your parents?Life.What does love feel like?Indescribable warmth.What was the best kiss of your life?Probably my first. We used to meet up and practise in our old air-raid shelter. I was seven. Elizabeth was taller than me, so I had to stand on a brick.What is the most important lesson life has taught you?It’s an old saying of my mother’s: what’s for you will not go by you.