The Great British Bake Off: The Final 8pm, BBC1The grand final is here, which sadly means Bake Off is about to switch off its oven, wipe down its worktops and say goodbye to the BBC. Savour every Mel and Sue pun, as soon their soggy bottoms and spotted dicks will be no more. Before the mourning begins, the remaining bakers must whip up a perfect meringue and then embark on the trickiest showstopper ever. It’s hard to imagine Bake Off without M-Bez, too, so enjoy this final fling. Hannah VerdierThe Missing 9pm, BBC1“I don’t feel like it’s her,” says Gemma, as she contemplates the apparent return of her daughter. It’s an observation that takes us to the heart of the mystery as this superb thriller continues. As to where the overarching story is heading, that’s trickier to understand as the action again flits between past and present, bouncing from Germany to France and Iraq. Among strong performances, special mention to Roger Allam’s brigadier, by turns stolid, pitiful and scary. Jonathan WrightHim 9pm, ITVSupernatural chiller plus domestic blended-family drama equals no satisfaction from either, as Paula Milne’s oddly muted Carrie update continues. The unnamed teenager (like the frequent filming from directly overhead, it’s not clear if that gimmick has a point) is exercising his secret telekinesis much more now, to the point where his parents and step-relatives really should twig; but they’re busy being mildly selfish in a manner too humdrum to sustain any menace. Jack SealeSailors, Ships and Stevedores: The Story of British Docks: Timeshift 9pm, BBC4It’s impossible to recall any documentary under the Timeshift marque that wasn’t worth watching, and this is no exception. It’s a beautifully wrought evocation of a time when Britain’s dockland districts had actual docks, rather than boutique apartment blocks. Crucially, however, this is not a sentimental defence of ye olden days, but an astute, even-handed survey of a transformation. Andrew MuellerThe Exorcist 9pm, SyfyEpisode two of the atmospherically gloomy TV reimagining of the horror classic. In a benighted Chicago, Geena Davis remains convinced her teen daughter is hosting a demonic squatter (symptoms include throwing up centipedes and cheating at Jenga). Hunky-but-tortured priests Alfonso Herrera and Ben Daniels begin their unsanctioned exorcism by surveilling the victim. But could it all have something to do with the Pope’s imminent visit? Graeme VirtueState of Undress 9pm, VicelandFashion is anything but frivolous in this promising travel series, in which model Hailey Gates explores what the world wears and why. This week, she’s in Pakistan, where the catwalk is a battleground for creativity and religious compliance. Her impressive cast of interviewees includes a transgender stylist, a hardline cleric and the creator of female superhero Burka Avenger. As Gates observes, no one comes to Karachi fashion week for the free champagne. Bella ToddGogglebox: Celebrity Special For Stand Up to Cancer10pm, Channel 4Among the many celebrities to have died in 2016, the passing of Caroline Aherne packed a particularly heavy blow; the comic writer lost her battle with lung cancer at the age of just 52. Marking the first edition of Celebrity Gogglebox without narration by Aherne, famous faces accompany the usual suspects to wax lyrical about TV highlights – and lowlights – in support of Stand Up to Cancer. Mark Gibbings-JonesFilm choiceLetters to Juliet (Gary Winick, 2010), 1.30am, Channel 4Talk about la dolce vita: this Verona-set romcom comes with lashings of extra zucchero, with an enjoyably daffy performance from Vanessa Redgrave adding zest. She’s a grandmother back in Italy to find her long-lost amore, a mission that overpowers the romance between her hunky grandson (Christopher Egan) and young Amanda Seyfried. Paul HowlettLive sportODI Cricket: India v New Zealand 8.50am, Sky Sports 3 The fourth game of the series.EFL Cup Football: Manchester United v Manchester City, 7pm, Sky Sports 1 A Manchester derby in the fourth round. United’s best chance of a trophy? Highlights, including Spurs v Liverpool, Channel 5, 10.30pm.Cycling: Six Day London 7.30pm, Eurosport 1 Day two from the Lee Valley velodrome.