In The Night Manager, the undercover hero Jonathan Pine juggles not just two identities, but four: his own (ie Jonathan Pine, the eponymous hotel night manager); Jack Lindon (the drug-dealer who causes mayhem in a Devon village); Thomas Quince (the Devon man whose identity he steals to get a false passport); and Andrew Birch (the name given to him by arms dealer Richard Roper).The hero of John le Carré’s book, recently televised to rapturous acclaim, manages to leap effortlessly from one to another – and to dish the villainous Roper in the process. But, as I am discovering, assuming a false identity to engage in a spot of espionage is not easy. To see if I’m as tough a nut to crack as Pine, I’m being interrogated by a former MI5 agent. And not just any former MI5 agent – my foe is Annie Machon, who in 1996 became famous, along with her then boyfriend David Shayler, for blowing the whistle on the agency, alleging all manner of crimes and misdemeanours.Welcome to Dragon School – the lair of the British acting elite This is the scenario: I am an investigative journalist (yes, this is fiction) with a mole at the Ministry of Defence. We meet clandestinely, like the show’s Angela Burr and her MI6 contact, on park benches near the Thames Embankment. I am operating undercover and using a false identity: Elliot Hugo Winterbottom, a theatrical casting agent and sometime actor. This is wish fulfilment on my part. I have always wanted to be a thesp – and a spy.The plot thickens: I am picked up – in my disguise as Winterbottom (fedora, moustache, theatrical bowtie) – for supposedly hanging about near the MoD, and hauled in for questioning. Machon sits behind a desk (actually in a posh hotel near Victoria frequented by Ian Fleming and famed for its martinis) and triescoolly to break me. I’m convinced I can hold out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jonathan Pine (Tom Hiddleston) in The Night Manager, a man who manages to pull off four identities. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryShe begins by exploring my acting past. I ham it up splendidly, mentioning my King Lear in Wigan and small character parts (usually playing antique dealers) in sitcoms and dramas. I am Winterbottom! Then I trip over my stage name and have to improvise hastily – but I survive. We also discuss my three wives and my son in rehab. I have perhaps overelaborated the identity.So far, so Tinker Tailor. Then things get trickier. Machon asks me why I was “loitering outside the Ministry of Defence”. “I don’t think I was loitering,” I reply, suitably affronted. I was on my way to have a game pie at the Red Lion pub (I had reconnoitred the area around Whitehall). She then produces what I feel is a low blow, claiming to have CCTV footage of me talking to a man on a bench near the MoD. I insist we had never met before and were simply passing the time of day, talking about cricket. The Night Manager finale recap – an explosively Oedipal climax It’s getting warmer – so warm, in fact, that the glue on my moustache is melting and I have to keep sticking it back on. Machon sharpens her attack, claiming the footage shows me picking up an envelope left by my mole. I was not prepared for this, and refuse to let her search my bag, insisting she get a warrant. She leaves the room to call a policeman (and, presumably, to get a warrant). I intend to throw the envelope out of the window or stuff it down the back of the sofa while she is away. Sadly, she comes back in while I am in the act, forcing me to hide it inside my jacket. Hanging on to the envelope (actually a plastic folder) while trying to stick on my moustache proves too much. I crack. It is me who is stuffed. And my source, of course.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I don’t think I was loitering’ ... Stephen Moss (in disguise) cracks under pressure while being questioned by former MI5 intelligence officer Annie Machon. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the GuardianIn the debrief, Machon says she thought I did pretty well, but it was a mistake to admit I was carrying a phone – she had asked me if I was and I said yes, even giving her my real number. I then failed to rebut the park bench and envelope questions. Never take one with you when you meet your mole, she advises (a phone, she means, not a park bench). The spooks can intercept them and even turn them into recording devices. She also reckons it’s better to use your real first name in an assumed identity, so you respond if someone says it unexpectedly. Elliot Hugo Winterbottom is just too ridiculous. But she has words of encouragement: “You did very well to remember all the little details – three wives! You stumbled over your postcode, which is a bit of a giveaway, and the question of the phone and the envelope threw you, but mostly it was very good.”I tell her I’ve always wanted to be a spy, and was disappointed not to have been recruited by MI5 or MI6 – or, indeed, the KGB. Missed opportunities. But perhaps it’s not too late? Machon, despite her warm words earlier, thinks it probably is. Anyway, my personality may not be right. “They usually go for people who don’t want to be spies. They try to weed out the James Bond wannabes.”Having earlier been stirred, I leave sadly shaken.The Night Manager is out on Blu-ray and DVD this week