The strange thing about the SAG Awards, which were held on Saturday night, is that while they are seen as a filmic precursor to the Oscars, their television awards really have no impact on the Emmys, which aren’t held again until September.Regarding television, though the Screen Actors Guild largely made very safe choices, in many ways echoing the choices of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences just a few months ago, some perceived wrongs were righted.The biggest slight to be addressed concerned Orange Is the New Black, which the Academy forced to compete as a drama after a rule change that essentially said all 60-minute programs should be labelled that way. The SAG thumbed its nose at that ruling and awarded Netflix’s prison show the award for outstanding performance by an ensemble in a comedy for the second year in a row. In doing so, it was basically telling the Emmys: “Nope, there’s nothing different here.” Orange is the New Black has the best and most diverse ensemble on television, especially when it comes to female actors. It is great that it is being continuously rewarded.SAG awards: diversity is the night's winner in pointed counter to Oscars Downton Abbey took home the award for best performance by an ensemble in a drama. While always full of noteworthy performances, especially by the universally lauded Maggie Smith, the show is generally seen has having slipped in quality over its last several seasons. This could have been a sort of “lifetime achievement award”, since the show has already gone off the air in the UK and is airing its final season on PBS.Just as she walked away with an Emmy in the drama category, Orange is the New Black star Uzo Aduba took a second SAG award for outstanding performance by a female actor in a Comedy. She gave one of her patented inspirational speeches while picking it up. She was one of the several actors of color to take home a statue. Idris Elba, who also won for his film Beasts of No Nation, scored for BBC’s Luther with best performance by a male actor in a TV movie. Queen Latifah, nominated for both the Emmy and Golden Globe, won best performance by a female actor in a TV movie for HBO’s Bessie, in which she played jazz legend Bessie Smith. Viola Davis, who earlier this year was the first woman of color to receive an Emmy for best actress in a drama, triumphed again with best performance by a female actor in a drama, for her role in How to Get Away with Murder. Two-time Oscar winner Kevin Spacey, snubbed by the Emmys while playing a scheming president on House of Cards, took home his second SAG award in a row for best performance by a male actor in a drama. It was a crowded field that included Jon Hamm’s final nomination for Mad Men and a nod to breakout star Rami Malek from Mr Robot. The Guild ratified the Emmy awards’ decision and singled out Jeffrey Tambor for his universally praised turn as a trans woman undergoing a transition late in life in Amazon’s Transparent. He won best performance by a male actor in a comedy.None of the winners were undeserving or even unexpected. The SAG awards, even when correcting the Emmy awards’ mistakes, were playing it incredibly safe. That is the ultimate hallmark of television’s biggest awards ceremony. 