YouTube sensation the Bondi Hipsters have released a scathing parody of Australia’s first male-only gym and co-working space, Nomadic Thinkers, after the controversial startup used images of the pair without permission.Christiaan Van Vuuren and Nick Boshier’s video is set at an “all-male thinktank” called Bromentum, “designed to create momentum for males in an over-feminised world”. Bromentum includes “an all-male workspace called Brotopia, a place for all-male startup businesses, with all-male business ideas, for an all-male audience”. According to a workspace whiteboard, the company values include “brofessionalism”, “brosponsibility” and “brolow the line spending”.Portlandia takes on men's rights movement with new music video “It’s a scientific fact that females distract males from our work by us wanting to have sex with them all the time. The world needs more spaces for men to be men, because progressive society is crushing masculinity from every angle.”Bromentum takes a swipe at Nomadic Thinkers, the Brisbane-based male-only co-working space which announced last week that it would launch in January, with the backing of six investors. Describing itself as “an innovative way to address male-related social issues”, it offers a number of membership options exclusive to men, including “The Bear Grylls” and “The Musk Have” (named after Elon Musk). “The gender-specific focus is bound to ruffle some feathers however the founders believe there is a genuine call in society for their offering,” it wrote in a media release.The intent behind Nomadic Thinkers was expanded on in a since-deleted blogpost written by a co-founder, Samuel Monaghan: “Nomadic Thinkers teaches men how to be vulnerable without becoming feminine, so as to build deep and meaningful relationships with spouses and children,” he said. “Nomadic Thinkers is a place for men who want to embrace their innate masculinity to succeed in business, relationships and health.”In the same post, he wrote: “The old saying that it takes a village to raise a child is so true. Unfortunately we have a village of women because the men have been slaughtered and the boys have been babied and coddled in cotton wool. It’s time to create some men again.”Monaghan told Junkee that he and his business partner, Matthew Mercer, wanted to offer the male-only space to prevent domestic violence, depression and suicide. In a statement to press Nomadic Thinkers said: “Our intention is and has always been to highlight the seriousness and social costs of these issues ... we believe that our space that combines mental, physical and social stimulation will be a catalyst for impact amongst the men of our community.”They said a male-only working space was always going to be a source of contention, but they had “hoped for constructive and meaningful conversations”.The Red Pill: Melbourne cinema drops men's rights film after feminist backlash According to StartUp Muster, there’s no real need for a male-only workspace in the first place: a survey of Australia’s startup ecosystem showed 74% are headed up by men. As Osman Faruqi wryly wrote in his article for Junkee: “If there’s one thing the startup sector needs it’s a blanket ban on women.” The Bondi Hipsters got wind of the company after it used images of the comedy duo on its site, without their consent. They left a scornful post on Nomadic Thinkers’ Facebook page, which has since been switched to private, along with the venture’s Twitter account.The Facebook post, co-written by Van Vuuren’s girlfriend, Adele Vuko, threatened to sue the startup unless it took the photos of the Bondi Hipsters off its site. Written in character, it also included “a few quick quezzies”, such as: “How can you ensure that the office remains so stress free that I’ll stop punching strangers?” and “How can you guys guarantee the entire office complex won’t collapse in on itself as a result of all that insecurity in the building?”The blogpost containing photos of the Bondi Hipsters has since been removed. Nomadic Thinkers have been approached for comment.Watch the full Bromentum video here.