Who Do You Think You Are?8pm, BBC1The 13th series of the celebrity genealogy show gets off to an unusually high-octane start with Danny Dyer, former anthropologist of football hooliganism-turned-beloved Queen Vic landlord. Excavating his authentic East End roots, Dyer blazes through prison records and workhouse databases. It’s a rollicking journey even before a much-publicised right royal twist comes along to give him and the historians a shock. Graeme VirtueClose to the Enemy 9pm, BBC2This Stephen Poliakoff serial promises much. An elegantly and evocatively distressed late-1940s setting. Spivs and former Nazis working uneasily together in an effort to win the peace. And a general lawlessness in which the noble and the malign could thrive equally. And yet, it never quite flies: the dialogue feels sluggish and none of the characters make a convincing enough play for our engagement. Tonight, Victor’s behaviour leaves Callum vulnerable to blackmail. Phil Harrison      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Their stories require no embellishment … Black Nurses: The Women Who Saved the NHS. Photograph: Victor Chimara/BBC/Maroon Productions Ltd/Victor ChimaraBlack Nurses: the Women Who Saved the NHS 9pm, BBC4Part of the BBC’s Black And British season, this is a fascinating and humbling doc about the nurses who moved from the Caribbean to help build the NHS. It’s a straightforward, unfussy assemblage of archive footage and interviews with the altogether heroic women concerned, which recognises that their stories require no embellishment. It’s also an implicit rebuke to boneheaded ideas currently at large in Britain and elsewhere. Andrew MuellerRandom Acts 12midnight, Channel 4A strand of new video art ranging from short films to music promos. The feel is subversive and occasionally quite strange, bringing a gallery-installation flavour to your front room. Tonight’s showings include a satire about the future of data storage, and George Wu’s film for the single Luminous Freedom by electro band New Build, featuring witty juxtapositions between painterly still-life composition and celebrity puns. John RobinsonMillie Inbetween 4.30pm, CBBCA third series of the comedy-drama about teenage life with divorced parents opens, and Millie’s resolve is tested by Dad’s decision to move the family into a new flat. There’s an extra bedroom, but who’s getting dibs on it? As a fight breaks out between the step-siblings, maybe this is one dilemma that can’t be solved by emergency pancakes. While the affable and oblivious Dad leaves Millie and her sister Lauren to sort things out, they come up with a radical plan. Hannah VerdierThe Apprentice 9pm, BBC1More buffoonery from Lord Sugar’s eager charges as they’re tasked with coordinating opposing late-night events at the London Aquarium and Madame Tussauds. Two truly terrible nights out are conceived and foisted on unsuspecting punters. Heading up team Titan, Dillon takes great delight in muscling in on his own night’s entertainment, while Nebula’s bolshy leader Paul provides his own sideshow in the form of a stand-up row with a teammate. Ben ArnoldThe Young Pope9pm, Sky AtlanticSumptuous and surreal, Paolo Sorrentino’s drama of life in the Vatican continues with Lenny agreeing to meet with the Italian PM. It’s an awkward encounter, at least from the politico’s perspective. Elsewhere, Dussolier takes a sexually charged trip to his home of Honduras. Where the overall plot is going you wouldn’t like to say, but this is like nothing else on TV, and made believable by a never-better Jude Law. Jonathan WrightFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Old-Testament-scale violence … The Book of Eli. Photograph: Photo courtesy of Warner Bros. P/APThe Book of Eli, (Albert Hughes, Allen Hughes, 2009), 9pm, ITV4Another post-apocalyptic parable with Denzel Washington as holy warrior Eli, carving his way along what is pretty much the Cormac McCarthy road, trying to keep the last surviving copy of the Bible out of the clutches of Gary Oldman’s tyrannical Carnegie. The violence is on an appropriately Old Testament scale. Paul HowlettLive sportFootball: Hyundai A-LeagueCentral Coast Mariners host Perth Glory (Kick-off 8.50am). 8.45am, BT Sport 1Europa League FootballSouthampton take on Sparta Prague at St Mary’s, and Feyenoord travel to Old Trafford to face Manchester United. 5.30pm, BT Sport 3Test Cricket: New Zealand v PakistanAll the action from the opening day of the second Test in the two-match series. 9.45pm, Sky Sports 2