      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One Leg Over by Robin Dalton (Text)Ninety-five-year-old Robin Dalton (née Eakin) has had an interesting life, to say the least – her short-lived first marriage made the front pages during the second world war, she was an intelligence agent for the Thai government, a literary agent to four Booker prize-winning novelists as well as playwrights Tennessee Williams and Arthur Miller, and a film producer with credits including Oscar and Lucinda and Country Life.More a memoir of romance and high-society high jinks from the nonagenarian than a how-to guide to intimacy (for that, see Sex After Sixty), One Leg Over follows Dalton’s memories of the time she embarked on a whirlwind series of parties and dalliances in postwar Europe before finding the second love of her life. – SCAvailable now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Storm and Grace by Kathryn Heyman (Allen & Unwin)Publisher Allen & Unwin has tagged Kathryn Heyman’s latest book a “literary thriller” but don’t expect a genre-bound police procedural. Heyman’s serious literary ability takes precedence in this story about male power and violence set in the curious world of free-diving. The Storm and Grace of the title are the main characters – he a charming egotist and world champion free-diver, and she a young diving enthusiast sent to interview him. What starts as bolt-from-the-blue love and romance steadily progresses to dangerous, controlling behaviour as Heyman drives an utterly compelling narrative towards a shocking ending. – LCAvailable now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Helen 100 by Helen Razer (Allen & Unwin)No matter how much you agree or disagree with Helen Razer, there’s a universality to the experience of reading her: when she’s rude, she’s very, very rude; and when she’s funny she’s hilarious. The new book from the polarising commentator and Crikey columnist uses as its crux her decision to go on 100 dates in less than 12 months after being left by her partner of 15 years and quitting her job.But the book itself is about more than that. It’s about love and sex and womanhood and sex and grief and rebuilding and sex. It’s self-help meets confessional; raw and honest and funny and brutal. Your enjoyment will depend on how much time you can spend in Razer’s idiosyncratic world – but if it’s anything like your world, then this book is probably for you. – SHAvailable now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Getting Away With Murder by Duncan McNab (Vintage)From the late 70s to the early 90s a spate of attacks on gay men, and men suspected of being gay, occurred throughout Sydney. About 80 men disappeared or died during this period; some of their deaths were ruled as suicide or misadventure, others left unexplained.In 2016 88 cases from this era became the focus of review by New South Wales police as part of Operation Parrabell, with the objective of determining whether they were gay-hate crimes. The attacks were also the subject of a wide-ranging investigation by SBS’s Deep Water project, which included documentary media and a fictionalised TV miniseries based on the events. Duncan McNab was a member of the NSW police force during the late 70s and early 80s, working in criminal investigation. Getting Away With Murder is McNab’s personal and procedural reflection on these crimes from the point of view of an insider on many of the investigations, but it’s also an analysis of prejudice and the shifting perspectives on sexuality and society across the past three decades. – SCAvailable now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Circle and the Equator by Kyra Giorgi (UWAP)Kyra Giorgi’s first interest is history: the researcher and Perth native (and daughter of the highly regarded Australian writer Gail Jones) has a PhD in the subject, and it is perhaps this enthusiasm that is the driving force behind this collection of 13 stories, which cross eras, oceans and cultures. The Circle and the Equator is Giorgi’s first book of fiction, and with her careful, eloquent prose (which has occasionally made an appearance in local literary journals) Giorgi interrogates the experiences – and ethics – of war, medicine, science and identity, and what it might feel like to live through the turning points of history. – SCAvailable now.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Testosterone Rex: Unmaking the Myths of our Gendered Minds by Cordelia Fine (Icon)Cordelia Fine’s writing is marked by an impressive synthesis of feminist politics, clarity of vision and scientific rigour. Fine’s 2010 release, Delusions of Gender, was a comprehensive analysis and systematic dismantling of “neurosexism” – the idea that there are hardwired differences between “male brains” or “female brains” or that they have anything to do with a natural predilection for things like empathy, mathematics, doing laundry or running a country. In Testosterone Rex, Fine turns her own excellent brain to examining the narratives around the supposed king of hormones. The Guardian reviewer Sarah Ditum writes: “Fine is a sure guide to the science, building up complexity without sacrificing clarity. By the time she’s finished, any lingering confidence that hormones exert a simple dose-response influence on our behaviour is thoroughly done for … Testosterone Rex is a debunking rumble that ought to inspire a roar.” – SCAvailable now.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Case Against Fragrance by Kate Grenville (Text)Kate Grenville was very young when she started getting headaches from perfume, but it wasn’t until a run-in with a virus during middle age that her sensitivity to scent really took over her life. Finding herself accosted by fragrance at every turn – even needing to tape up the cracks around hotel doorways and run through perfumed lobbies and shopping centres with a scarf covering her face – Grenville embarked on a quest to discover what exactly is in these fragrances with which we cloud ourselves, and why does even the slightest hint of them send some people spiralling into ill health?“Using fragrance is a choice,” Grenville argues, “and my hope is that this book might give people the chance to make that choice an informed one.” – SCAvailable now.Lincoln in the Bardo by George Saunders (Bloomsbury)When Abraham Lincoln’s 11-year-old son Willie died in February 1962, as the civil war gathered steam, the president was devastated. According to some historical accounts, after the sun had set on the day of the funeral, Lincoln – racked with grief – returned to visit the corpse that lay in a marble vault locked behind an iron gate. Such is the jumping off point for Lincoln in the Bardo, George Saunders’ first novel – although novel isn’t really the right word for it. At this point in his innovative career, no one would expect Saunders to go by the book.Set on that one night, the text is presented in part as a script: a dialogue between the ghostly forms – dead people, from different ages – who haunt the graveyard where Willie’s spirit is also trapped. This is interspersed by whole chapters which quote from historical texts (made up by the author), which highlight that underlying tension of history: it’s pretty much always subjective. This odd format – which has polarised the Guardian Australia office – gives Saunders an opportunity to flex his greatest muscle: inhabiting the minute idiosyncrasies of a diversity of characters, and painting them so vividly that the ghosts become real. His second greatest muscle, of course, is his humour – and if you can sink into its style, this becomes a very funny, deeply original book. – SHAvailable now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fear by Dirk Kurbjuweit (Text)The German journalist and author Dirk Kurbjuweit provocatively poses the question “can anyone become a murderer?” in his latest novel, based on his family’s personal experience with a stalker. Eight years ago Kurbjuweit and his wife and his two children were terrorised by a neighbour, a hellish time which he has revisited for dramatic effect in this book, his first to be translated into English. Kurbjuweit plumbs his own family’s terror but takes it a step further into the realm of violence and revenge and the question: how far would you go to protect your family? – LCAvailable now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Refugees by Viet Thanh Nguyen (Hachette)Viet Thanh Nguyen follows up his Pulitzer prize-winning novel, The Sympathizer, with this collection of short stories about those people who cross cultural, national and emotional borders to escape – and to come home. The Guardian reviewer Yiyun Li writes that Nguyen’s stories “do not aim to surprise us with new twists or shock us with sensational details, as war and refugee stories could easily choose to do. Rather … Nguyen’s characters tell these stories because they are the only ones known to them … Nguyen has breathed life into many unforgettable characters, and given us a timely book focusing, in the words of Willa Cather, on ‘the slow working out of fate in people of allied sentiment and allied blood’.” – SCAvailable now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Idaho by Emily Ruskovich (Chatto & Windus)It’s very hard to write about the debut author Emily Ruskovich’s novel Idaho without giving away something you don’t want to know yet. What you want, what is best, is to come to it with little knowledge; to have the story unfold according to Ruskovich’s plan and pace. From the first page it is clear that Ruskovich’s poetic, spare writing would be enough to compel on its own, but this extraordinary story of a violent event that decimates a young family in northern Idaho is the true engine here. It’s a puzzle that enthrals from the outset. – LCAvailable now.Why I Am Not a Feminist: A Feminist Manifesto by Jessa Crispin (Black Inc)Jessa Crispin, founder and editor of the online literary magazine Bookslut, has issues with feminism – but it’s not the fighting for women’s rights part, it’s that feminists so often seem to not be fighting for much at all. Too busy trying to make itself universal, feminism, Crispin argues, has made itself redundant.“Crispin is telling us that we have to imagine something better in order to build it,” the Guardian reviewer Suzanne Moore writes. “Feminism as self-absorption, as an add-on label to a new lifestyle, has got us … where exactly? Where we are now. Stalled. Look how quickly we can go backwards. When did feminism get so small? When it became polite, unthreatening and marketable. Crispin blasts through all this by asking us to think big, properly scarily big.”“If by declaring myself a feminist,” argues Crispin, “I must reassure you that I am not angry, that I pose no threat, then feminism is not for me. I am angry, and I do pose a threat.” Why I Am Not a Feminist certainly pulls no punches; it is short, sharp and polemical, and will be a guaranteed conversation starter among feminists for the foreseeable future. – SCAvailable 21 February.Audacity: How Barack Obama Defied His Critics and Transformed America by Jonathan Chait (HarperCollins)The legacy left by the first African-American president of the United States will be much debated, and one of the first out of the gates with the political eulogies is Jonathan Chait, writer for New York magazine and former senior editor at the New Statesman. Obama’s legacy is stronger than Trump, Chait argues, in policy as well as in perception. Whether this is the case remains to be seen, but one of the hallmarks of Chait’s writing is that he is persuasive, even when you don’t agree with him, and has an enviable talent for making complex ideas readable. Chait’s optimism in the face of Trump-era pessimism may feel a bit jarring for some, but for others might be precisely the kind of reassurance they need right now. – SCAvailable now.Norse Mythology by Neil Gaiman (Bloomsbury) A book about Norse mythology by Neil Gaiman is one of those ideas that seems so bleedingly obvious that it’s a wonder it took so long to make it happen. After all, the English author is no stranger to myth: from the Sandman comics to that modern classic, American Gods, his books are so chock-full of mythological references and reimaginings that one suspects he could probably fill an entire library with just his own research notes.“The halls of Valhalla have been crying out for Neil Gaiman to tell their stories to a new audience,” writes the Guardian reviewer Natalie Haynes. “Hopefully this collection will be just the beginning.” – SCAvailable now. 