Rooks Cottage is nestled down a winding country track in deepest Surrey. It is a place of ramshackle, chocolate-box charm with low ceilings and twisted staircases, though in the winter with the leaves stripped from the trees, it feels melancholic. Not the sort of place, then, that you’d expect to find obscene manga illustrations. Yet, at the end of the garden, pages of comic-book pornography are being burned on a bonfire. As the protruding mega-boners wither in the flames, Julian Barratt’s Maurice Flowers, a successful children’s author, looks on gravely. He has a dressing gown like the one Arthur Fowler used to wear in EastEnders after he stole the Christmas Club money and had a funny turn. As anyone with a passing knowledge of TV storytelling will tell you, a dressing gown worn outdoors is shorthand for someone approaching a shattering breakdown. But it gets worse. Maurice has recently tried – and failed – to hang himself from a tree in the garden.This is Flowers, a comedy-drama that’s at once funny, tragic and touching. What’s more, this tale of an eccentric family failing dismally to connect with each other has been deemed substantial enough by Channel 4 to be stripped across every night this week. The pornographic drawings are of a superhero known simply as Mr Gay, whose achilles heel is his persistent erection. They were drawn by Shun, Maurice’s live-in illustrator. Maurice’s wife, Deborah, played by Olivia Colman, thinks Shun and her husband may be having an affair. It’s a suspicion hardly allayed by the priapic etchings.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Oh, pissflaps!” spits Colman after fluffing a line. Peep Show apart, you’d probably associate Colman with more genteel language. In Flowers, though, her character is a fizzing bag of anxiety, prone to bursts of wittering in the hope of dispersing the awkwardness that has consumed her family. Alongside Maurice, that means 25-year-old twins Donald (Daniel Rigby) and Amy (Sophia Di Martino), a rubbish inventor and unfulfilled arty type respectively. Interloper Shun lives in the garden shed where Maurice pursues his work, a popular, Roald Dahl-esque series of books about a family called The Grubbs. Shun provides the intricate illustrations. Thankfully on this occasion they’re family-friendly. Shun is played by 29-year-old Will Sharpe. He’s also the writer of Flowers, and the director. I get a sense of what this involves when I watch him shoot a scene in the garden; he runs on, delivers a line, then dashes off again, finding a monitor on which to watch the rest of it, headphones on, script in hand. Sharpe made his name as co-writer and co-director of the 2011 Bafta-nominated comedy-drama Black Pond, which starred Chris Langham and Simon Amstell. He also appeared in 51 episodes of Casualty as junior doctor Yuki Reid. Now, on the set of Flowers, his ability to keep all the plates spinning is impressive. “I guess it’s not that weird, say, if you’re in a band to write the music, and then play it, and then produce it too if you want to,” he says. You get the sense this won’t be his last turn making a show from scratch.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Angus Wright and Georgina CampbellOn set, there is no modern technology to be seen, no mobile phones, no computers. Sharpe confesses to having set Flowers “in a kind nowhere place and nowhere time”. The consequence of which being, he says, “it was harder to be distracted by ideas of ‘our times’ or ‘society now’.”  Their relationship is at the stage where something needs to be done. Everything is awkwardJulian Barratt This applies not just to real society but the stuff we see on TV too. “If we ended up in a house that looked like the Outnumbered house, suddenly you’re in quite familiar territory,” reckons producer Naomi de Pear, who has worked on the show since Will first came to her with it, two years ago. “A lot of telly looks really clean. It doesn’t smell of anything. We wanted it to be like when you go to someone’s house and you think: ‘Oh, this is what their family smells like.’ Also it had to be eccentric without being kooky or hipster or try-hard. We took things out if they looked too cool. Gathering beautiful retro things is fashionable at the moment and would root the time in a way to 2016, too, rather than staying in the ‘nowhere time, nowhere place’ we wanted. Plus, real, proper, good old crap once piled up looks beautiful anyway.”In his on-set motorhome, Julian Barratt’s brow is furrowed. “It’s great fun,” he says, his face sombre. It must be hard to shake off playing a depressive all day. “Maurice is a tragic character, trapped behind many layers of problems. Inside, he wants to connect but he’s unable to. He’s got fossilised somehow. He’s quite brown and beige. All walled up, emotionally blocked. There’s stuff in his past that’s not in the show, that Will told me, eventually. His dad was a magician, and left the family. His mother told him it was a disappearing act.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Des WillieBarratt has been largely absent from our screens since the end of his surrealist sitcom The Mighty Boosh. But this role fits him like a moth-eaten glove. Maurice’s failure to suffer fools gladly recalls an older, even more disillusioned Dan Ashcroft, Barratt’s weary style mag columnist in Nathan Barley. And, as it turns out, Maurice isn’t having an affair with Shun after all.Julian Barratt: 'Pain – that's what life is all about, isn't it?' Of Colman’s Deborah, he adds: “Their relationship is at the stage where something needs to be done. Everything is awkward, reaching out and missing each other. They did have good times. And that’s the sadness of it. Is it possible? Is it too late? It there one last chance?” Despite Flowers’s moody, out-there tone, some classic sitcom tropes remain, from bawdy misunderstandings to the breezy, incongruous tunes that bridge the scenes. “It reminds me of old sitcoms I used to like, like Butterflies or The Good Life, but then with a much darker element,” says Barratt.“I like ‘dark’,” concurs Colman at lunchtime, pushing her plate over. “Grab a spoon if you want some, it’s delicious. I love a lentil.” She speaks quickly, but scattershot Deborah is an unorthodox role for her, especially as she ascends the ladder of British drama (first Broadchurch then The 7.39, then The Night Manager). In fact, she had read the first script of Flowers while filming series two of the ITV detective drama.“Deborah tries to hide all her problems behind a slightly manic grin,” she says. “She’s a glass-half-full type person, where Maurice is not; he’s having a terrible time. And they are failing to meet in the middle. She feels like she’s trying but she never stops to listen. Then awfulness ensues.”As much as Deborah is the polar opposite to Maurice, so Colman is to Barratt. Colman is fizzing and bubbly, Barratt is reserved and quiet, though they seem to get on tremendously well. “Julian is a gentle presence. Very calm and kind. And it’s lovely getting him to giggle: ‘I’ve made Julian Barratt laugh!’ But then I’m a bit annoying. Jolly all the time. He watches and observes, which makes me even more [she laughs manically] ‘I must do something to make him laugh!’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anna Chancellor as Auntie Viv and Colman as Deborah. Photograph: Des WillieThe conversation turns to Sharpe. As well as his stint in Casualty, he was also at the RSC for around 18 months, and before that was a member of Footlights while studying at Cambridge. “He’s irritatingly young,” says Colman. “Ugly. So unpleasant. Isn’t it annoying? His directing notes are totally on the money, though. I worried that while making the pilot he was too polite to say: ‘What you’re doing is shit.’ Now he’s not.” Julian is a gentle presence. Very calm and kind. And it’s lovely getting him to giggleOlivia Colman “What I like about Olivia is that she is very funny,” says Sharpe in return. “But she’s also very good at being emotionally open. Have you seen Tyrannosaur? I think she’s amazing in that, she makes the film almost. Maybe some people see her as a comedy actress, and some as a drama actress. It was quite an exciting idea to see if we could see both in the same show.”Sharpe has lived the show for some time now. After the set visit I meet him again in London, during a break from editing. We discuss Shun. My initial response was to see him as a modern Manuel from Fawlty Towers, a Japanese man-servant stereotype. To call it racist would be excessive, but it definitely cuts close to the bone. Sharpe, whose mother is Japanese and father English – he lived in Tokyo until he was eight – has his own view.“I’ve got Japanese family, and I wanted to go to the edge of what I find fun about some of the Japanese people in my life,” he says. “Often it’s cheeriness, I suppose, and the way the English language comes out. I find that enjoyable. If I had to psychoanalyse it, maybe I’m trying to own it. Weirdly, it still does happen [to me] in the street. People make karate noises and stuff. I think: ‘Really? It’s 2016, what are you doing?’ Often grown men. It’s just so weird. So I might as well own it, and run with it, do the best version of it that you can.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Will Sharpe as Sun. Photograph: Des WillieSharpe’s portrayal of Shun is therefore affectionate, and this is a thread that runs beneath the bleak humour in Flowers. Relationships are fracturing, not only that of Maurice and Deborah but twins Amy and Donald, too (they are both in love with neighbour Abigail, played by Georgina Campbell). There is vicious fighting, both verbal and physical, but moments of tenderness break out and are deftly pitched. A scene in the third episode between Maurice and Shun in which Shun compares Maurice’s existential malaise to being like “a massive poo” blocking a toilet is actually incredibly touching.Now, in the final phase of production before all of his work finds itself on the telly, can Sharpe look back happily on it? Did he ever feel out of his depth? “Oh, that’s a constant feeling,” he says. “Literally all the time. And not even when I’m doing a job. When I’m making breakfast, I feel out of my depth. Armando Iannucci said something along the lines of: ‘No one knows what the hell they’re doing, everyone is winging it.’ I’ve found it helpful, knowing that.”Flowers airs Monday to Friday, 10pm, Channel 4