Character actor Abe Vigoda, known for his work on The Godfather and on the television series Barney Miller, died Tuesday aged 94. The actor’s daughter, Carol Vigoda Fuchs, confirmed his death to the Associated Press, and said her father died in his sleep at her home in New Jersey.Vigoda, recognizable for his leathery, sunken-eyed face, came to fame in 1972 after Francis Ford Coppola cast him in The Godfather as Sal Tessio, an old friend of Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando) who aims to take over the family by killing Vito’s son, Michael Corleone (Al Pacino). In the film, Michael anticipates that Sal’s suggestion for a “peace summit” among crime families is a setup and has him executed by the men Sal thought were his escorts.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The success of the Godfather films brought Vigoda’s face and voice to fame and led to numerous roles. But it was his turn in Barney Miller as Phil Fish that brought the actor the most recognition. For his portrayal of Detective Fish, Vigoda received Emmy nominations three years in a row (1976-1978).Vigoda enjoyed sharing the story of how he won the role in Barney Miller: he had just returned from a five-mile run when his agent told him to report immediately to audition for the part. Danny Arnold, who was producing the pilot, remarked to Vigoda that the actor looked tired, and Vigoda told him about the long run.Arnold said: “You look like you have hemorrhoids,” to which Vigoda replied: “What are you, a doctor or a producer?” He got the part and remained a regular on Barney Miller until 1977, when he took the character to a spin-off series called Fish.Before he making it onscreen, Vigoda earned his acting stripes on and off Broadway, performing Shakespeare, Strindberg and Shaw.Vigoda died about 34 years after People magazine started the rumor that the actor was dead. In 1982, People magazine wrote that “the late” Abe Vigoda did not attend the Barney Miller wrap party, spawning years of reports that Vigoda was no longer alive. He played up the mistake by posing for a photograph published in Variety in which he was sitting up in a coffin and holding a copy of People. A website dedicated to tracking the actor’s status was updated on 26 January to reflect Vigoda’s death. Vigoda was married to Beatrice Schy from 25 February 1968 until her death in 1992.