I was an only child. Both my parents came from working-class families in Hackney, east London. My parents were quite young when they met at a badminton club in the 1930s. Dad was the second son so, although he won a place to go to university, he couldn’t go because there was no money. He got a job with the council – but then the war happened. He joined the RAF and was stationed on the east coast of Scotland. Mum joined the Women’s Auxiliary Air Force. Nothing too traumatic happened to either of them during the war, and they enjoyed the social mobility and different life that it brought. Mum took part in amateur dramatics; Dad learned the boogie-woogie piano and could have gone to Canada to pursue a music career. He chose to continue his life in London instead.My mum had a hysterectomy after I was born, so I was the only child. I was very much the centre of my mum and dad’s lives. I think I was fulfilling their performing desires by becoming a child actor. Just before the war, my dad made that long journey, of about seven miles, from Hackney down to South Woodford, along the Lea Bridge Road, to buy a semi-detached house, so I grew up there.The road we lived on was pretty safe. Back then, we all played outside in the street, and as Epping Forest was close by, we would also go to play there. My best friend in the street was a girl called Susan Pears, who was the same age as me but much brighter. We would read random pages from the children’s encyclopedia together. I spent a lot of my time in my imaginary world when I was small. My mum took me to see a specialist when I was eight because she thought I was deaf – I was actually more interested in hearing the voices of my imaginary friends.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tony Robinson as Baldrick in Blackadder the Third. Photograph: BBCMy grandad on my dad’s side was a joker. He was pretty unfocused, but my grandma, his wife, was a working-class businesswoman who ran the local newsagents. She died before I was born. My grandad on my mum’s side was a merchant seaman. He lived with us for about 10 years towards the end of his days. His wife died when I was very small so I didn’t know her very well. Both families lived in east London, so I did see my grandads often.My parents taught me practical things, about how important hard work, discipline and the necessity of managing your own money were. Their values were very much the values of the postwar middle class.Getting married wasn’t that big a deal when I was younger. In fact, the mother of my children and I were very much of the same view. We were together for 17 or 18 years. Having children was important though. I was a liberal parent when my children were young. Back then, my daughter used to call me Tony; now she calls me Dad. Intellectual and emotional curiosity is what I hope I’ve taught my children. My fame as an actor never really had an impact on our family. I adore being a grandad. I feel very moved and emotional that my two grandchildren love me and every time they see me they are genuinely pleased. Nothing compares to it. I’ve been married to Louise for five years and we are very happy. My wife is central to the lives of my grandchildren, and was present when my first granddaughter was born.Both my parents developed dementia in their old age. Everyone I know whose parents had dementia feel that they didn’t deal with it very well. Family is much more important than work … I’d choose being a son, dad and grandad over being Baldrick any day.No Cunning Plan by Tony Robinson is published by Sidgwick & Jackson, £20. Tony Robinson will be giving a talk and Q&A at Bristol Old Vic on Sunday 6 November, ideasfestival.co.uk/events/tony-robinson