Libraries are as popular as Premier League football, the cinema and the UK’s top tourist attractions: in 2014/15, libraries in England received 224.6m physical visits - almost as many as visits to Premier League football games (13.8m visits), the cinema (171.5m) , and the top 10 UK tourist attractions (42.7m) combined.Nearly 60% of people hold a current library card, and libraries received 96m website visits in 2014 to 2015 – more than three every second. These statistics show that libraries are both phenomenally popular and a phenomenally important public asset for communities.Councils recognise this and are doing everything they can to support libraries. But local authorities are stuck between a rock and a hard place. The Local Government Association estimates that increasing demand for social care will create a funding gap of £2.6bn by 2020. Councils have experienced a 40% reduction in central government funding over the last parliament alone, and serious funding pressures continue. This week’s freeze for 2017/18 funding has led to warnings that essential services will be cut. .Council funding freeze 'means cuts to many essential services' This has a major impact on councils’ ability to support key public services, including libraries. Reducing branches, shortening opening hours and cutting staff are some ways to save money, but that’s not what anyone wants for a service that can offer so much to so many people. Councils are going to have to do more with less, finding creative and innovative ways to use library spaces.Libraries are dying – but it’s not about the books | Simon Jenkins Libraries are already adapting to these changing circumstances. Of course, we don’t want to lose sight of libraries’ core purpose – to provide access to books and information, both for learning and pleasure – but libraries are also well placed to tackle many other big issues which are priorities for councils. Namely, supporting the local economy and fostering innovation, bringing communities together, and keeping people healthier and independent for longer. There's fantastic creativity and ambition among library staff and councils trying to make the best of limited resources. Councils are responding to these challenges by ensuring libraries play an increasingly important role as community hubs, empowering local people to use them for a wide variety of services ranging from homework clubs to public health and business advice. Libraries help residents and local businesses boost their digital skills and get online, for example. Coding clubs, in particular, are equipping children with the skills needed for tomorrow, while Google Garage tutorials help local businesses maximise their online presence. Libraries provide these services through outreach – with skilled people taking services out into communities – as well as virtually, allowing access to a wide range of online resources and spaces for people to meet, debate and learn from each other. We’re also ensuring that libraries are accessible for the most vulnerable in our communities. Many libraries have redesigned themselves to welcome those with autism, Alzheimer’s or dementia, providing one of the few public spaces where people can relax and safely participate in everyday, communal activities. In some areas, the community has even come together and volunteered to take over the running of their local library. This can have tremendous benefits, but does require support from the council to train volunteers in the skills needed to operate such a large and complex organisation. Will digitisation destroy libraries or make us stronger? Partnerships between libraries and local businesses are developing in more places, and not just cities. Libraries can support businesses by providing access to start-up space, advice and resources. Some libraries have even made 3D printers and other tools available, turning them into mini-workshops and giving local businesses access to services that would otherwise be hundreds of miles away. In turn, businesses can help to make libraries more viable by supporting local growth and increasing reach. There is a fantastic amount of creativity and ambition among library staff and councils trying to make the very best of limited resources. Working closely with their communities, they are helping to shape a fresh future for libraries.Cllr Ian Stephens chairs the Local Government Association’s culture, tourism and sport board.Talk to us on Twitter via @Guardianpublic and sign up for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.