Police were given a shock when they were called to reports of an assault, only to find two comedy zombies running late.Officers rushed to the scene at junction 11 of the M62 on Sunday after receiving a call that a woman was being assaulted by a man in a car.But when they arrived it turned out to be two actors, a man and a woman, on their way back from working as extras on the set of an online sitcom set in Runcorn, Cheshire.A spokesman from Greater Manchester police said a panicked caller phoned 999 at 5.45pm on Sunday reporting an assault near the the junction at Birchwood and Warrington, but when officers realised what had happened they took no further action.The spokesman said: “The officers probably got a bit of a shock but they appear to have survived.”North West motorway police posted a photo of the duo on Twitter.NW Motorway Police (@NWmwaypolice)report of female being assaulted on M62, vehicle stopped pair of extras making to a job - posing as Zombies - takes all sorts pic.twitter.com/QluQZVbzQXSeptember 25, 2016The director of the show, Peter Mckeirnon, said Diane Holden and Steve Lowe were returning home after filming. “We were filming the very last scene of the last episode and we took all day,” Mckeirnon explained. “Steve and Diane jumped in the car and drove off before getting pulled over. It was so out of the blue.“We were filming so long that they had to rush off and didn’t have time to take their makeup off.”Lowe, 60, a charity volunteer, said: “This has really been our 15 minutes of fame. I’ve been playing drums for 40 years and I never once got my name in the paper. Put on a zombie costume and we are splashed all over the internet!“There was nowhere for us to get changed so we just got in the car and didn’t think anything of it. I don’t know where the assault report came from, but an unmarked police vehicle pulled us over just as we were getting home. “We wound down the window and when the officer saw us he burst out laughing. He asked to take a picture because no one would believe him back at the station.”Lowe and Holden occasionally take part in zombie-themed events for charity and they particularly enjoyed their day filming in Widnes for Dead Town.“There’s a great sense of camaraderie and it was a cracking day,” he said. “It was dead good.”Mckerinon said: “Diane and Steve were actually acting as zombies for something else in Manchester on Saturday. There is a whole community of zombie extras that do this for a hobby. There are hundreds of them, they love it.” Dead Town is based on Mckerinon’s books Death in a Northern Town, inspired by characters from his own life growing up in Runcorn.He raised £2,000 through a crowdfunding campaign to put his stories in front of a camera and Sunday was the culmination of 18 months of filming.It is not the first time the Dead Town team have unleashed their gruesome cast members on the public. “One guy once drove back to the Wirral with his eye hanging out,” he said.After seeing the story posted on social media platforms in Australia, he added: “It’s all gone completely bonkers.”