The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with The Hold Steady: Positive Jam   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I love the lyrics, I find them really funny. The lyrics are “we’re gonna start it off with a positive jam, man”, which is great. It’s more like a spoken-word piece but it’s pretty rocking as well.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor MIA: Paper Planes   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s one of those songs that, no matter where you are, you’ve just gotta move and do all the actions.The track that’s been unfairly slept on this year Thundercat: Them Changes   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s a phenomenal tune. He’s an incredible bassist; it’s got such groove that I feel like everyone should know it.The track that got me out of bed this morning   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I love reggae in the mornings. It was from when I lived with my first boyfriend when I was 16; his dad used to play reggae in the mornings every day. It was a great way to wake up, a bit of Garnett Silk. I’m a proper night owl so I find reggae helps a little.The track that should have been a crossover hitI’m going to go a different way with the question, and say if you mashed up Radiohead’s A Wolf At The Door with Casta Diva, which is an aria, that would be pretty wonderful.The ideal festival track MGMT: Electric Feel   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest That’s an absolute tune. I also love a track called True Thrush, is that it? By Dan Deacon. And then I’d probably go for Dance Yrself Clean by LCD Soundsystem.The track I’d play at sunset in Ibiza Radiohead: Weird Fishes/Arpeggi   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’d play this. Or would I? Yeah, that’s what I’d play. It’s just one of my favourite tracks of all time; I just love it and it might be one of my funeral songs, too...The best track by my favourite new artist Aldous Harding: I’m So Sorry   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s one of the saddest songs I’ve ever heard but it’s so beautiful. She’s got a really interesting, mournful voice. Make sure you’re in a good place when you take a listen because it’s heartbreaking.Charlotte Church’s Late Night Pop Dungeon is at Simple Things festival, various venues, Bristol, Sat & Roundhouse, NW1, 31 Oct