There’s something pleasing about a gruff, 53-year-old Yorkshire dad, long finished with any involvement with discotheques, having made one of the freshest club music albums of the year. But Richard Barratt has dance in his blood. He was one of the first DJs to play house in the UK, and has worked with Sheffield’s best talent, from Cabaret Voltaire through Jarvis Cocker and Róisín Murphy to Toddla T. Although his response is a crisp: “Good God, no,” when asked if he still has any interest in DJing or seeing the reaction to his own music in the clubs, and although it’s 15 years since he was last in the public eye with his band the All-Seeing I, he has never stopped making glorious electronic disco records – culminating in the new collection of his work as Crooked Man for James Murphy’s DFA Records. [Many of us] managed to turn our layabout fantasies into actual jobs. Not sure how we’d fit back into real life now The son of a farm labourer, Barratt grew up in the hills just outside Sheffield, where, he says in all seriousness, “we’d not long had electricity”. His parents were “pre-rock’n’roll” but he and his sisters navigated their way through glam rock into the full musical diversity of the early 70s, and he quickly discovered a love of “listening and dancing to music in dark dingy little spaces”, with “mushrooms and sulphate” as drugs of choice.He found punk diverting, but was infinitely more impressed by locals Cabaret Voltaire and the Human League applying its principles to electronic sound. He fell into DJing by dint of having the biggest record collection out of his mates, and eventually he (as DJ Parrot) and his friend Winston Hazel became a fixture in the city, playing “anything that could make you dance” under the Jive Turkey banner.Jive Turkey was notable for its diversity. Sheffield’s large Afro-Caribbean population gave it burgeoning soul and hip-hop/breakdance scenes that spilled into the club, but there was also a particular subculture that Barratt calls “benefit bohemians … artists, musicians, drop-out students, fashion victims, entrepreneurial football lads, et cetera et cetera, who’d all dropped out of the mainstream, facilitated by social security payments”. Flamboyance mixed with blunt northern humour and politics (a vital nexus was FON studios – an acronym for “Fuck Off Nazis”). It was a scene with a great sense of possibility as various among its participants “managed to turn our layabout fantasies into actual jobs. Not sure how we’d fit back into real life now. Could you see Jarvis stacking shelves in B&Q? Phil Oakey with a window round?” And the openness to new ideas extended to new sounds, with Barratt and Hazel adopting the house sounds of Chicago well before the acid house explosion as such hit the UK.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Crooked Man (aka DJ Parrot) performs with Jive Turkey collaborator Winston Hazel, right, on the London Eye in 2013. Photograph: Sarah Ginn/Red Bull Content PoolWhen acid house did hit, they rode it out, but became rapidly disenchanted as it turned into rave. “I’ve got nothing against MDMA,” Barratt says, “it’s a wonderful dance drug, but the crowds became very ‘mono’–– they only seemed to want things above a certain tempo with as much piano banging and big daft noises as possible. Nothing against pianos and daft noises either, mind, but my priority was always a certain emotional charge irrespective of BPM.” He quit DJing in 1992, but not before making a major contribution to rave culture as Sweet Exorcist with Richard H Kirk of Cabaret Voltaire, making epochally great “bleep techno” – “a nod from the old guard of Sheffield electronics to the young whippersnappers” – and helping to launch Warp Records along with the likes of LFO and Hazel’s Forgemasters.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Video:Simulation by Róisín Murphy with Crooked ManSince then he has been involved in dozens of projects, emerging overground with All Seeing I, but generally in the shadows, maintaining a musical career “more out of belligerence than any sensible plan”. But he’s never been wilfully musically obscure – “in my tiny world of delusion, I always think I’m making pop music” – and when Róisín Murphy challenged him to make some more straightforward club tracks after their slow-motion disco collaboration Simulation in 2012, he hit a rich seam. The tracks are made with Sheffield band scene veterans Mick Ward and David Lewin plus virtuoso guest singers, and channel the melancholia and euphoria of the earliest Chicago house uniquely well with proper song structures and, in Scum (Always Rises to the Top) a bona fide protest song.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen toCrooked Man’s Scum (Always Rises to the Top)A cult steadily grew around the Crooked Man 12-inches, until DFA picked them up this year. Combined with new material they form an impressively complete and structured album. Though generally drily cynical about the industry, Barratt is very happy with the label: “I’ve never worked with anyone who’s so into the music and also manages to just about keep things running as a proper business,” he says, though he can’t resist following it up with” “Ha! Watch them go bust now I’ve fucking said that.” He frets about being seen as revivalist – “I do worry that I might have turned into the Ocean Colour Scene of dance music, without the popularity” – but funnily enough, for all their deep roots, his songs sound weirder and less retro than most house music made by people half his age, and that’s down to one core principle. Barratt’s own raving shoes may be hung up, but, he says: “I can never quite get my head round DJs that don’t like dancing themselves.”Crooked Man is out now on DFA