In terms of drama and characterisation David Bowie put his genius into his music, not his movie work, although his film career was as imaginative, daring and eclectic as everything else about him. Space Oddity is, in its way, a perfectly formed sci-fi mini-masterpiece of the 60s, charting in tiny, brilliant narrative leaps Major Tom’s excitement at blast-off, his ascent to celebrity status, his “space birth” outside the capsule, the disaster of the mission, and his epiphanic acceptance of love, mortality and man’s insignificance in the vastness of space. A film might take 120 minutes to tell the same story — less well.  Bowie convinced his public that every role he accepted was an artistic decision and experiment, governed by idealism Pop singers from Sinatra to Elvis to Madonna have dabbled in the movies, with varying results, but David Bowie always convinced his public that every role he accepted was an artistic decision and an artistic experiment, governed by his own idealism.His orchidaceous strangeness made Bowie perfect casting for Nic Roeg’s 1976 movie The Man Who Fell To Earth — his film debut, in fact — based on the Walter Tevis novel, about the extraterrestrial creature who comes to Earth looking for water and natural resources for his own stricken planet. Bowie himself, the exotic exquisite, was to all intents and purposes an extraterrestrial himself; and unlike all the other heroes of 70s glam, it seemed as if his eerie beauty would not come off with the make-up.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for The Man Who Fell to EarthBowie’s style and his line readings were not those of a trained actor, and he continued to be mocked, affectionately and otherwise, for a certain space-oddity in his performance. But watched again, what is striking in The Man Who Fell to Earth is Bowie’s utter calmness, self-possession and poise. This is not stunt casting: it is event casting. Bowie endows the movie with his own extraordinary charisma and prestige, as if appearing in an installation or art happening.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie and Kim Novak in Just a Gigolo (1978). Photograph: Imago / Barcroft MediaIn 1978, David Bowie’s interest in Berlin led him to accept a role in David Hemmings’s Just a Gigolo, playing an army officer after world war one who becomes a gigolo in Berlin in a notorious establishment run by Marlene Dietrich, in her final screen role. In some ways, Dietrich was quite as much “event casting” as Bowie himself (their dialogue scenes were cut together without them being in the same studio) and the brittle, contrived decadence of the whole affair was loathed by the critics, who decided the novelty of Bowie’s screen acting had expired. Just a Gigolo has some cult interest now.But Bowie’s movie career took a leap forward in 1983, with Nagisa Ôshima’s Japanese PoW drama Merry Christmas Mr Lawrence, in which his performance appreciably loosened up, although he still looked every inch the aesthete. Bowie played the rebellious officer who subverts and unsettles the camp’s authorities with his own extraordinary sort of sacrificial homoeroticism, at one stage interrupting a punishment to kiss the commander on both cheeks, who in astonishment and ambiguous fury topples backwards in a dead faint. Perhaps only Bowie could have carried this scene off. He is entertainingly paired with the easy naturalism of Tom Conti, playing his brother officer Lawrence, and there is an interesting, subsidiary chemistry between them.In 1986, Bowie made a sensational impression in the fantasy extravaganza Labyrinth, as one of the few humans – alongside Jennifer Connelly – in a cast of Jim Henson creations. The role is perfect for his aptitude for fantasy and a certain kind of magical surrealism.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch David Bowie in a music number from LabyrinthFor Martin Scorsese, he was a subdued and disappointingly conventional Pontius Pilate in The Last Temptation of Christ (1988) and this is the one performance which I think is a misfire, perhaps more than the obvious flop of Just a Gigolo. He is assured and perfectly decent, but outclassed by Willem Dafoe’s Christ, and is not allowed to bring any of his own specialness to the part.From there, Bowie contributed performances to dozens of films, but my favourite is his work on Christopher Nolan’s The Prestige, a tale of warring stage magicians. Bowie plays the maverick scientific genius Nikola Tesla, a pioneer in the field of electricity, who is suspected of creating occult magic. It is a performance of real strangeness, alienation, wit and unreadable charm. Bowie does really look someone on the borderline of genius and craziness, a fish out of water who is somehow able breathe through his gills. It was fitting late-period cameo for this fascinating, endlessly charismatic screen performer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie as Nikola Tesla in Christopher Nolan’s The Prestige (2006). Photograph: Allstar/Warner Bros