There was a torrential rainstorm 10 minutes before the new fourth plinth installation was unveiled in Trafalgar Square on Thursday morning. And then it cleared, and a seven metre-high thumbs up emerged.“What this represents is so important,” said the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, revealing the latest artwork to occupy the renowned spot.V&A exhibition reunites masterpieces of English medieval embroidery “Optimism. Positivity. The best of us. Particularly post-Brexit, the three most important words I say are ‘London is open’ and this shows Londoners, visitors to London, tourists, EU citizens, immigrants that London is open.”The giant thumb is the work of artist David Shrigley and is the 11th contemporary art sculpture to be shown on the plinth. It was four years ago that Shrigley first came up with the idea of a giant thumbs up, so he had no inkling it would be seen in a Brexit context.But that’s fine, he said. “It is such an ambiguous thing which you can quite easily project your own meaning on to, it could endorse something I didn’t want to endorse.“My line is that it means whatever you want it to mean, but it doesn’t mean ‘that’.” “That” for Shrigley would be a rightwing message, although the interpretation is clearly out of his control. “It is an interesting thing and a scary thing. There is still time. There is potential for the meaning to change.”Ayahuasca and anal beads: the hallucinogenic art of Donna Huanca The giant thumb is called Really Good and is the latest commission in a project which started in 1999 when Mark Wallinger installed Ecce Homo on the empty plinth. Other works have included Alison Lapper Pregnant by Marc Quinn, Nelson’s Ship in a Bottle by Yinka Shonibare and Katharina Fritsch’s Hahn/Cock – literally a giant blue cockerel.Shrigley hopes the thumb will become a self-fulfilling prophecy, that things considered bad – the weather, the economy, politics – will benefit from the positivity contained in the work.Cast in bronze, it has the same dark patina of the other statues in Trafalgar Square.Khan said: “The great thing about this sculpture and the fourth plinth is we can all be art critics and David is looking forward to your criticism, or your compliments, or your comments.”Shrigley hopes the thumb will have a life after its stay in Trafalgar Square and might become a gift in the spirit of the French giving the Statue of Liberty to the Americans. “Maybe we can give it to the EU after we leave and they can find some Ellis Island-type rock formation off Calais for it.”