Spotlight (15) (Tom McCarthy, 2015, US) Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams. 129 minsIn keeping with its subject, this true-life investigative thriller sticks to the facts, avoiding speculation, exaggeration and emotional histrionics. Instead it’s a story of patient, diligent accumulation, mirroring the work of the Boston reporters at its core as they methodically expose the Catholic church’s covered-up history of the sexual abuse of children. It’s never less than absorbing, and what it lacks in style it makes up for in substance.Youth (15) (Paolo Sorrentino, 2015, Ita/Fra/Swi/UK) Michael Caine, Harvey Keitel. 124 minsAfter the sustained brilliance of The Great Beauty, a more sedate, though equally elegant, Sorrentino story. It’s set in an Alpine spa, where Caine’s conductor reflects on ageing, love and the gallery of grotesques before him.13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers Of Benghazi (15) (Michael Bay, 2016, US) John Krasinski, Pablo Schreiber, James Badge Dale. 144 minsBay brings his blockbuster machismo to the sensitive subject of the 2012 US compound attacks in Libya, and the soldiers who bravely repelled it. Explosions guaranteed, but the absence of toy robots is a bonus.Innocence Of Memories (12A) (Grant Gee, 2015, UK) 97 minsA tangential take on Orhan Pamuk’s The Museum Of Innocence in the form of a mesmerising travelogue set in Istanbul.Dirty Grandpa (15) (Dan Mazer, 2016, US) Robert De Niro, Zac Efron, 102 minsDe Niro’s old lecher cajoles his uptight grandson into a last-hurrah trip to spring-breaking Florida, which becomes an exercise in bigotry and crudeness.The 33 (12A) (Patricia Riggen, 2015, US/Chi) Antonio Banderas, Rodrigo Santoro. 127 minsDramatising the globally known story of the trapped Chilean miners, this earnest but flimsy rescue thriller really has nowhere to go but down, then back up.Backtrack (15) (Michael Petroni, 2015, Aus) Adrien Brody, Sam Neill, Robin McLeavy. 88 minsDerivative mystery-horror in which Brody’s psychologist treats dead people, who point the way down memory lane towards his own buried trauma.Capture The Flag (PG) (Enrique Gato, 2015, Spa) Carme Calvell. 94 minsSpanish-made family animation telling a very American story of surfing teens and Nasa veterans on a lunar adventure.One & Two (12A) (Andrew Droz Palermo, 2015, US) Kiernan Shipka, Timothée Chalamet. 91 minsA somewhat frustrating addition to the ever-growing line of dreamy sci-fi American indies, centred on siblings living a mysterious 18th-century existence in the modern day.Lazer Team (12A) (Matt Hullum, 2015, US) Burnie Burns, Gavin Free. 102 minsSci-fi comedy as four ordinary dudes discover parts of a combat suit, with which they must defend Earth.We Come As Friends (18) (Hubert Sauper, 2014, Fra/Aus). 110 minsIntrepid documentarian Sauper flies around wartorn South Sudan, revealing a previously unseen landscape of political divisions, exploited locals and neocolonialist agendas.Out from Friday      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Goosebumps. Photograph: RexDad’s Army Toby Jones and Bill Nighy revive the wartime-set sitcom’s spirit.Trumbo Hollywood history with Bryan Cranston as the defiant blacklisted screenwriter.Point Break Edgar Ramírez and Luke Bracey reboot the cult action thriller.Goosebumps Meta-fictional family adventures with Jack Black and a host of monsters .Janis: Little Girl Blue Sympathetic biographical doc of the troubled singer and her bright, brief career.Rams Cannes-winning drama on the unlikely subject of Icelandic sheep farmers.Lee Scratch Perry’s Vision Of Paradise As warped a film biography as you’d expect for the dub legend.Miss Hokusai The artist’s daughter is the subject of a detailed anime.Strangerland Nicole Kidman comes home for an outback drama.Amazonia Live-action adventure with a monkey stranded in the Amazon.Taking Stock Kelly Brook leads a cheery London crime caper.Coming soonIn two weeks... Ryan Reynolds has another stab at superheroism in Deadpool… Ben Stiller is so this season in Zoolander 2…In three weeks... Rebel Wilson explains How To Be Single… Another western ride for Kurt Russell in Bone Tomahawk…In a month... Sacha Baron Cohen in spy spoof Grimsby… Chiwetel Ejiofor leads the remade The Secret In Their Eyes…