A talk by a rape survivor and her rapist, which was planned to take place at a women’s festival in London, may be cancelled after a petition was launched to deny him a platform.Rapist Tom Stranger was due to appear with Thordis Elva at the 2017 Women of the World festival at the Southbank Centre next week. The two have written a book, South of Forgiveness, about the attack and its impact on their lives.Southbank Centre artistic director Jude Kelly said the organisers were “taking the time to listen to different viewpoints before deciding the most appropriate way forward” after seeing the strength of feedback. “Rape is one of the most complex and difficult issues that all societies around the world struggle to deal with, every day,” she said in a statement.Adding that “conversations about blame are mostly focused around the survivor not the perpetrator”, Kelly said the event had been programmed so one woman could “share her journey of coming to terms with the devastating impact of her rape and her decision to invite her perpetrator to take full responsibility for his actions”.Can I forgive the man who raped me? Elva was raped by Stranger when she was 16 in 1996, but contacted him eight years later to tell him what she had been through. The two struck up an unlikely email correspondence, in which they discussed the impact of the assault. They met again two years ago and have since given a TED talk and published South of Forgiveness, which publisher Scribe claimed could “contribute to our understanding why sexual violence occurs”.Opponents to the appearance, who described themselves as a group of feminist activists and academics, as well as concerned citizens based in the UK and beyond, singled out the proposed event with Elva and Stranger as “triggering for many survivors and which we believe goes against the values espoused by the WoW festival”. The festival is billed as championing “gender equality, celebrating the achievements of women and girls everywhere and examining the obstacles that keep them from fulfilling their potential”.In the preamble to their petition, which was signed by more than 2,300 people, the activists said they were deeply concerned about the event, planned for 11 March. “In its current format, the event will see a rapist given a platform to talk about the rape he committed, where his narrative will unavoidably be given equal weight to that of the survivor’s,” the petition’s organisers said. They added: “By giving the rapist in question a platform to relay their narrative, the event will inevitably encourage the normalisation of sexual violence instead of focusing on accountability and [the] root causes of this violence.”Philip Gwyn Jones, the book’s publisher, said: “We hope to get a decision that everyone is comfortable with.” He defended the proposed presence of Stranger at the festival and said the publishers, authors and organisers had hoped the event would “move the debate forward”. He added that they had hoped that hearing a rapist’s perspective could help “if we are ever to get to the point where men are to change their behaviour”.Elva and Stranger, who is donating a proportion of his proceeds from the book to charity, believe their contribution to the debate can help explain why sexual violence occurs by placing it in the context of wider society. “Tom Stranger is a perpetrator of rape. He has acknowledged as much publicly, and seeks to avoid inappropriate praise for his admission of guilt,” Gwyn Jones added. “He believes taking responsibility for committing any form of sexual violence should be viewed as essential rather than praiseworthy, while going to lengths to avoid suggesting that perpetrators should make contact with any individuals they have subjected to sexual violence.”• This article was amended on 8 March 2017 to clarify that the petition was signed by a group of feminist activists and academics, as well as concerned citizens based in the UK and beyond.