The blues can seem like the most unassailably archaic of genres. Reggae, jazz and even folk have their cycles of modernisation and reinvention, but for whatever reason adoption of the blues by musicians – whether dad pub bands or high-concept arch throwbacks like Jack White – often seems to imply traditionalism and small c conservatism. There are always exceptions, however, and the worlds of sampling and DJ culture have a hidden history of repurposing the blues in more interesting ways. This week, a former resident at London’s Fabric nightclub, DJ Ali B, has released a seamless DJ mix of tracks by John Lee Hooker, BB King, Howlin’ Wolf, Muddy Waters, Lightnin’ Hopkins and Sonny Boy Williamson. There’s no technological radicalism to it – just ultra-slick selection and sequencing, and neat blends from one track to the next – but it throws new light on the tunes as immediate, strange and fully functional in a modern club, rather than as museum pieces. Ali B is following in the tradition of other club and hip-hop DJs such as Keb Darge and Jurassic 5’s Cut Chemist, whose crate-digging exploits have taken them back through funk and soul and into the worlds of old-style R&B and jump blues – and who continually prove that the music has value for hip and hopped-up young audiences in nightclubs. But this isn’t the first time the blues has worked its way into club music.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When Andrew Weatherall latched on to Primal Scream’s Rolling Stones fetishism in 1989, a bit of bluesy grit was thrown into the oyster of the acid house era. Artists and DJs orbiting the loose and eclectic Balearic aesthetic started throwing slide guitars into their mix downs. Notable examples from 1990 include Ariel (a band featuring Tom Rowlands pre-Chemical Brothers), the country-blues-dub Scottish trio One Dove (also produced by Weatherall), and – of all things – a remix of Bananarama by the Orb affiliates Youth and Thrash. That susceptibility to blues-rock has never quite left the more grizzled side of clubland, and a quarter century on, whether it’s DJ Harvey’s band Wildest Dreams or Weatherall’s own new subscription label Moine Dubh, they still weave it together with experimentalism and wild abandon. Some of the more seemingly innocuous dance music of the 90s had a deep blues undercurrent, too. It’s easy to stereotype trip-hop together as homogeneous tasteful background music, but there was a lot of diversity within it – and even if the likes of Moby and Morcheeba did use blues signifiers in a rather anodyne way, there were moments where those undercurrents bubbled up into new and intense forms. Beth Gibbons’s more harrowing work for Portishead, the stately work of Attica Blues on the Mo’ Wax label, the singing/rapping of unsung Bristolians Earthling, and particularly the deep purr of singer Nicolette on Massive Attack tracks and her own albums, could make it feel as if a whole new British blues was being invented.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Likewise, the Parisian house producers of the late-90s “French Touch” wave could seem overly tasteful, but they could also pack an emotional punch. Alex Gopher’s Billie Holiday-sampling The Child became a global club hit in 1998, while Ludovic Navarre has made a career out of looping up louche blues licks as St Germain. His 1995 track Alabama Blues remains popular with DJs. There’s a nice circularity to the fact that the young British producer Romare – whose recent records on Black Acre and Ninja Tune explore the blues’s African roots through sample collage, and are not a million miles from St Germain’s style – credits Parisian thrift-shop crate-digging as one of his most important musical inspirations.There are other, more scattered examples. Every so often, a rapper (Nas with Bridging the Gap, David Banner with Mississippi, Kanye with Golddigger) will have a rootsy moment. An astounding album of gritty, bordering on the industrial, remixes of RL Burnside, Come On In, was released in 1998. Detroit house producers Theo Parrish and Moodymann have touched on the blues as part of their wider explorations of black music history. There are even glitchy Berlin-bunker techno producers who’ve gone to town on blues-based projects: Akufen, the Rip-Off Artist and Tallmen 785 have made some deeply weird and wonderful cut-ups over the last decade or so. But there’s never been a movement or a moment in the sense of “nu jazz” or “folktronica”. Maybe it’s the whiff of earnest rockist historical theorising that goes with the genre nowadays, or the Budweiser-advert whitewashing of its past, because, despite the excellent nightlife moments it’s been responsible for, the blues remains an overlooked ingredient in modern dance music. Still, so long as there’s whisky and DJs willing to draw for a Lightnin’ Hopkins track at a surprising moment, expect many more reinventions to come.