Kirstie’s Handmade Christmas 8pm, Channel 4Ever unafraid to give the festive season the full Blue Peter treatment, Kirstie Allsopp continues her crusade to create the perfect handcrafted Christmas. Tonight’s opening episode takes in a visit to the Highlands and Blair Castle’s Christmas fair, with a wealth of curios on offer. That’s followed by an invitation to break out the craft kits, with a guide to decking the halls with bespoke decorations and festive foods. Mark Gibbings-Jones Six Wives With Lucy Worsley 9pm, BBC1Worsley opens this three-parter by announcing a fresh gimmick: to bridge the gap between presenter and reconstruction, she’s cast herself as a contemporaneous observer of Henry VIII. The historian lurking at the frame’s edge as actors re-create Henry and Catherine of Aragon having a domestic adds little. But it doesn’t overwhelm a typically vigorous Worsley analysis, with emphasis on the women’s motivations. Jack SealeThe Big Life Fix With Simon Reeve 9pm, BBC2What a fantastic idea: a crack team of inventors engineer ingenious technical solutions to everyday problems faced by people in need, from Emma, a graphic designer whose career ended when Parkinson’s symptoms arose at the age of 29, to James, whose skin condition prevents him from indulging his passion for photography. Reeve appears to contribute little besides some enthused honking, but this is lovely, moving stuff. Luke HollandIn Plain Sight 9pm, ITVBased on a true story, this three-parter dramatises the pursuit of Peter Manuel, a Scottish sexual predator of the 1950s. Martin Compston gets inside the arrogance and vanity of Manuel, a rapist and murderer who was praised by judges for theatrically conducting his own legal defence. Douglas Henshall matches him as the dogged, family-man detective Muncie who knows Manuel is guilty but, as of this episode, can’t quite prove it. Well-written nastiness. John RobinsonFinding My Twin Stranger 10pm, Channel 4An exploration of the peculiar phenomenon of finding and meeting one’s “twin stranger”, a doppelganger who could be anywhere in the world. It’s social media-fuelled, of course; a website now even offers the service for a fee. Seven non-related pairs of twin strangers are brought together, agreeing to undergo tests to see if there’s any scientific reasoning behind their similarities, or whether it’s all just baffling coincidence. Ben ArnoldRich Kids of Instagram 10pm, E4Last in the series, and fashionista Imam is launching her new collection, while Christopher woos a love interest using everyone’s favourite aphrodisiac, a helicopter. It’s been easier to warm to some of the millennial multimillionaires than others, as a few are little more than proof that, regardless of wealth, some people’s only sense of taste remains in their mouths. Yes, they’re young and loaded. Yes, they look happy. But are they really? Yes, they probably are. Luke HollandBilly on the Street Christmas Special 1.30am, Comedy CentralA Christmas edition of the improvised outdoor quiz. Sporting festive onesies, indefatigable host Billy Eichner and guest star Will Ferrell dash around Manhattan demanding answers to trivia questions from sceptical pedestrians. This being New York, the replies range from the surreal to the downright hostile. Elsewhere, the pair offer up festive gifts – including a bail of replica manger hay – to bewildered passers-by. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceBlue Ruin (Jeremy Saulnier, 2013) 10.50pm, Film4With his hangdog face masked by shaggy hair and beard, Macon Blair’s Virginia drifter Dwight is not your average avenger. But when the man convicted of murdering his parents is released from jail, he stumbles into ineptly bloody action that endangers his sister (Amy Hargreaves) and her daughters. Director-writer-cinematographer Saulnier’s lean and vicious low-budget thriller depicts revenge as messy as can be: fear-filled, with one violent act leading inexorably to the next. Paul HowlettLive sportChampions League Football Eliminated Spurs and qualified Leicester are both in action in tonight’s final group matches. 7pm, BT Sport 2Cycling: 6 Days Of Amsterdam The second day of the track race from Amsterdam. 7.30pm, Eurosport 1Test Cricket: India v England The opening day of the fourth Test from the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. 3.30am, Sky Sports 2