Professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and an Atlantic contributing editor, Ian Bogost is one of the foremost writers on gaming culture – though he’s probably best known for the Facebook game Cow Clicker, which, despite being a satire, became a viral hit. In his new book, Play Anything, Bogost takes his expertise away from the screen and into the real world, arguing that in the 21st century we’ve lost track of what it really means to “play”.You’ve become known – as you put it – as the “Cow Clicker guy”. But now you’ve written a book warning against the dangers of indulging in such aimless fun…In some ways the Cow Clicker thing is an example of the kind of crisis that I hope the book offers a little bit of a help in addressing: that feeling of being stuck inside an ironic orientation to the world. It made me stop and say: OK, what is it about games that might actually be useful and good?One of the moments for me as an individual is realising that maybe the most interesting thing about games is not the “games” part; it’s the way that they allow an excuse for setting up and respecting these arbitrary limitations, and working with them.The call to turn anything into play could be taken as a call for gamification – the practice of giving rewards such as points and prizes as a motivation for performing simple tasks. But you’re actually scathing about gamification. Were you worried you might be taken the wrong way?It is a subtle problem, and of course subtlety is not what we deal in when we talk about ideas generally, and especially when we talk about gamification. This is a lesson I learned over many years: games are a kind of play. But actually, play is in everything.We know that games are powerful and keep people’s attention. They become obsessed, maybe unhealthily obsessed, with them, and we want that obsession in our lives, in many different ways. But not so you can transform the boring into the extraordinary. Take your job: now you’re getting points for operating your desk properly, and suddenly it’s enjoyable? That’s not really the answer. It’s a way of taking what you’re already doing and paying a different kind of attention to itIan Bogost Did gamification get anything right?We were on the right track when we pursued looking into this domain that’s called “games” for something to extract and bring to errands, or bring to home life, or bring to work. That was not a mistaken idea, but you know, maybe the way we’ve been going about it hasn’t produced the result we desire.It’s not like you take this miserable world and then you add this sugar-coating, this layer of games atop it. It’s a way of taking what you’re already doing and paying a different kind of attention to it.Why is now the right time for this book? Play is old, and none of your advice explicitly relates to video games. One of the key examples in your book is your daughter playing the game of “don’t step on the cracks” as you lead her around a shopping mall.We’ve been in a series of socioeconomic moments for some time now that are uncomfortable, that we need resolution for. One of the touch points in the book is Barry Schwartz’s idea of the paradox of choice: the enormous surplus of capitalism, and the fact that we have all these choices and it puts the burden of decision on the chooser, who then is of course doomed to be disappointed, and then to blame him or herself for their disappointment.It was 2004 when Schwartz’s book was published, and even then we had been living with that condition for a long time. Now we’re adopting coping mechanisms: the rise of asceticism, this Marie Kondo [bestselling author of The Life Changing Magic of Tidying Up] stuff: “I’m going to throw away all my stuff, I’m going to move into a tiny house, I’m going to live in a dumpster, I’m going to get rid of all my possessions, I’m going to live on a dollar a day.”Some of those responses have been tied to the rise of technology culture. You now don’t have to go anywhere in order to experience the existential dread of a thousand shampoos at the grocery shop. I open up my computer or my mobile phone and there are just as many different ideas to contend with.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bogost speaking at the Wired by Design retreat at Skywalker Sound, Marin County, California, 2014. Photograph: Lester Cohen/Getty Images for WiredIs there a risk that some of the advice could become self-help for the already well-off? You discuss your elaborate ritual for making coffee in the morning as a form of play, but it’s a very expensive form of play, involving a lot of specialist tools.Right, there is this risk. But I think the book goes behind the kind of first-world problem level: the quantity, the size, the financial investment, these are incidental features from the perspective of play. The argument is that you can take anything and you can play with it.If you look at these day-to-day things, part of it is rhythmisation – you get up in the morning, and you do the same thing over and over again, you make your tea, or your coffee, and the boredom of that sameness, you have to face that boredom and make it meaningful again. That’s not an income balance problem, that’s something that affects everyone equally.David Foster Wallace hovers throughout this book, both positively and negatively. He wrote a famous essay on irony, where he suggested that the answer was a sort of universal empathy. You vociferously disagree with that, but it still feels like he is your icon of irony.It was The Pale King that did it. I just thought: “Wow, this book is really getting at some of the same ideas that I’m interested in.” The problem of repetition, of boredom, trying to make the day-to-day palatable while also recognising that you yourself are only a small component of a much larger social and cosmic system. I just thought it was a lovely project.I mean, if anything, one of the interesting things about the conversation about irony that we’ve been having in popular discourse over the past five to 10 years is how few people cite Wallace as an example. Even though he wrote this fairly influential essay that for a long time was one of the great touchstones.Wallace lays out the problem in such a clear way, and then gets it wrong, in such an equally clear way. The answers in The Pale King are better answers for me than the answers in his irony essay, which is this kind of dream of perfect empathy. “I’ll just imagine that this is a reasonable world for me to live in.” The cognitive burden of that act can’t be underestimated.Aside from Wallace, the other stars are your daughter and your lawn. Your daughter, because of the inspiration she provided walking through that mall, and your lawn because of your frustrations with trying to keep it lush and alive in Georgia – and your attempts to see the play in that, too. Was it a personal book?The book is the process of me coming to terms with the advice that I’m giving. If you take my advice in the book and accept the invitation to “play anything”, then the first thing you have to do is look around yourself.This is not a dream for the future, this isn’t setting goals for some vacation or other life, this is a matter of your actual life today, and tomorrow, and next week. I hope those examples help show that it doesn’t matter what it is, there’s always something possible, but sometimes we have to look harder to find it.Play Anything by Ian Bogost is published by Basic Books (US) $26.99. Click here to buy it for £17.99