Sony music will reportedly sever ties with Dr Luke, the producer accused of sexually assaulting singer Kesha – charges he denies.The Wrap reports that the record label is expected to end its relationship with the producer, whose real name is Lukasz Gottwald, a year ahead of his contract’s expiration. This comes amid public outcry for Sony Music to drop the producer, according to “knowledgeable individuals”.Singer's legal battle casts spotlight on sexism in the music industry Pressure on Sony has mounted since Kesha filed a lawsuit against Gottwald and Sony in 2014, alleging that he physically and sexually abused her. Kesha’s motion for a preliminary injunction was denied in a 19 February court case, binding her to Gottwald’s Kemosabe Records, which is owned by Sony. The record label has said it is not legally permitted to end the contractual relationship between Kesha and Gottwald.Since the court case, a groundswell of support has built up for Kesha, including declarations from fellow stars such as Adele, Lady Gaga, Kelly Clarkson and Lorde. Protesters gathered in front of Sony headquarters in late February and have spread their outrage online using #FreeKesha. A second protest outside Sony headquarters is planned for Friday, where supporters will deliver a petition urging the record company to release Kesha from her contract with Gottwald.“There is no contest. Kesha has no case in regards to her contract but they can’t afford the Adeles of the world calling the label unsupportive,” a source told the Wrap. “The fact that this hasn’t already been taken care of with Luke is confusing, especially for people in the building.”Gottwald, who has denied all allegations via public comments on his Twitter account, signed a five-year contract with Sony in 2011 that is set to expire in early 2017, meaning both Sony and Gottwald would have to come to a mutual agreement to terminate their relationship.A spokesperson for Sony Music declined to comment.An attorney for Gottwald denied reports of Sony Music dropping the producer in a statement to Entertainment Weekly: “This is not true. Luke has an excellent relationship with Sony. His representatives are in regular contact with executives at the highest levels at Sony and this has never come up.”