The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Sleezy D: Get Down    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kicking things off with a slice of real house music! This is a new track that I made with Rhythm Masters and Sleezy on the label I co-run with House Of Virus and DJ Ides, Freakin909. It’s banging from the start and is pretty much guaranteed to get everyone who wasn’t already on the dancefloor on there in a hurry. Should be dropping around Christmas.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Harry Romero: Tania    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is a real eye-opener. People can just be going through the motions on the dancefloor until I drop this. It’s usually one of the earlier records I play as it wakes them right up.The track I wish I’d signed to my label Purple Disco Machine: Song For O    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest PDM is the absolute don! Could have picked a few of his records, but this is a current favourite. Anthemy, great drums, great piano – a rare example of how to make a timeless, memorable, feelgood record without vocals.The track that got me out of bed this morning Parliament: Funkentelechy    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Nothing funkier, period. Peck me lightly, like a woodpecker with a headache. Dope!The best track by my favourite new artist Lovebirds: Love’s Like Dancing    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is very melodic while at the same has enough oomph to keep the dancefloor moving.The track I’d play in sunset in Ibiza Basement Jaxx: Samba Magic    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Picture the scene: Café Mambo, sun going down, and then the DJ drops this! I just love it how it grooves and builds and grooves and builds melodically while giving out tons of energy.The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding C&C Music Factory: Deeper Love    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If anyone knows a better singalong record, please stand up! No? Didn’t think so. Auntie’s wedding or underground club, not many records can claim to work pretty much everywhere, but this is one of them.Overrated x Tahanan Daytime Summer Soirée at Egg London, N7, Sat