In the week that A Nation’s Theatre festival begins showcasing some of the most innovative theatre from all across the UK, it’s good to be reminded regional theatre really does compete with London’s best.I’ve just come back from the Theatre by the Lake in Keswick, and straight up I must confess that although it’s been open for 17 years, I’ve never previously visited, although my colleague Alfred Hickling has been on several occasions. More fool me. Not only is it situated in the most idyllic location right on the edge of Derwent Water, but the production of A Shepherd’s Life that I saw was hugely entertaining, and a fine example of a theatre show being very cannily matched to a particular context and location. Not cosy, not safe, no tractors: the plays redefining rural theatre Getting that kind of programming right is a real skill and art, a kind of alchemy that many regional theatres and arts centres around the country practise every single day, refusing to succumb to the idea that audiences outside London lack the sophistication to respond to either challenging ideas or form. One of the things A Shepherd’s Life touches on are the tensions between those of us who visit the Lake District for leisure, bringing money to the area via tourism, and those who live and work there all year round. It does so using simple but what any regular London theatre-goer would recognise as highly contemporary theatre techniques.I’ll be making sure it’s not another 17 years before I return, but my and my fellow national theatre critics’ lack of attention to Theatre by the Lake, or indeed other theatres that are remote, and not easily accessible by public transport, only contributes to the notion that little of real theatrical interest happens outside the M25. Theatre is about relationships and this week I've started a new and long over​-​due one Tighter budgets on arts desks, rising travel costs and the fact that over the last 20 years London’s subsidised stages, in particular studio spaces, are more tightly curated and now produce more in-house work every year, leaves theatre outside London less rather than more likely to get critical attention. Even the most fearless and dedicated bloggers have time and financial constraints when it comes to covering a geographical spread of work.As Megan Vaughan observed recently, pointing to the invisibility of small out-of-London companies: “If a tree falls in a forest and there’s noone there to hear it, does it make a sound? If a new company is stone cold amazing and there’s noone there to write about them, do they still get to have a career?” Well probably not, unless they can raise the cash to get themselves to Edinburgh, where they are more likely to be able to persuade programmers and producers to see them.It’s why Battersea Arts Centre’s A Nation’s Theatrematters, offering 60 companies and 350 artists who make work across the UK the opportunity to play dates in London venues. The opportunities for work created in the regions to tour into London are also far fewer than they were 20 or 30 years ago and for many the costs are prohibitive, so the programme for A Nation’s Theatre, which includes shows for all ages at venues across London from Arts Admin to the Barbican, the Young Vic to Rich Mix, operates as a corrective to the idea that most great theatre is made in London and then travels out to rest of the country, increasingly in the form of a live stream. The Shepherd's Life review – gentle farming wisdom and animal magic Of course some of this work might have been programmed in London venues in any case, but a lot of it would never have been seen. Talking to BAC’s David Jubb a few months ago, he mentioned that looking for shows to programme had made him and BAC’s producers engage more proactively with work being made elsewhere and starting relationships with the arts organisations across the UK – from Belfast and Glasgow to Devon and Wales – that are creating it. Theatre is about relationships. This week, I’ve started a long overdue relationship with the Theatre by the Lake, one I hope will continue beyond my one-off visit to see The Shepherd’s Life. The test for A Nation’s Theatre will be not in the success of individual shows during their London showcase, but in whether the relationships formed endure beyond the end of the festival in May.