Hi, Pos, AKA Plug Won AKA Kelvin Mercer from De La Soul. You’re releasing your new album, And the Anonymous Nobody, through the crowdfunding site Kickstarter. How come? Have you run out of money?Ha. We are blessed with performing all over the world. We make great money. We had sunk hundreds of thousands of dollars of our own into this album already. The album was already coming out beautiful, but unconventional. We knew different labels – Interscope, Atlantic – wanted to hear it. But we felt they would immediately jump into their music-business mind and say: “Woah, you have this great song with Little Dragon, but there’s no chorus.” Or: “You have this song with Damon Albarn, but he doesn’t even start singing until two minutes towards the end.” So that’s why we decided to crowdfund, so we didn’t have deal with a label.You reached your $110,000 goal within nine hours and went on to raise more than $600,000. What are you going to do with the extra $500,000? Record five more albums?We were able to hire full orchestras to play. We realised, “Yo. Let’s put all that money into this record.”A bit like Brewster’s Millions (1)?Ha! Sort of. The Kickstarter fans need to get their shirts and different vinyl and all that. So every bit of that money went into making this project.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pos of De La Soul at the band’s Glastonbury appearance in 2014. Photograph: Shirlaine Forrest/WireImageYour Kickstarter project was successful. But others have been less so. Could you offer some advice as to where these crowdfunding hopefuls may have gone wrong?Definitely.The PetPhone – the world’s first a personal music player for pets, which won pledges of $10,112 towards a goal of $196,000 goal.I mean, honestly. Who’s going to invest in something for their dog to be able to listen to their favourite music? That’s ridiculous.Next, the Vapecase – an e-cigarette that plugs into your iPhone, which only made $911 out of its $50,000 target.I’m not into all that, but I think that’s kind of cool. Don’t they already do stuff like that, though? I’ve seen ones that plug into your USB.Cage Match – an online dating app that matches you to other people based on your ranking of Nick Cage films – only £3,193 pledged towards £20,000 goal. (2)That is cool. That should definitely have been out there. I like Nicolas Cage. That’s funny.And here’s a successful one: Wengash Silver Anti-Radiation Underwear exceeded its $2,000 goal by $141.Wow. I think that’s just scary. It makes people realise maybe there is a reason why you need that. I’ve heard people say: “Hey, don’t lay your phone in your pocket, it can lessen your sperm count.” (3) I think I’ll get me a pair now.You gave away your entire back catalogue for free recently. How close did your accountant come to having a heart attack?Not only our accountant. Our lawyer was a bit frazzled, too. We were already in the process of talking with Warmer Brothers about it. But our fans had been asking for so long, we just thought it would be a good gesture to put it up for like 25 hours.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mercer with bandmates Vincent Mason and Dave Jolicoeur. Photograph: Steven Dewall/Redferns via Getty ImagesSnoop Dogg and Damon Albarn feature on your new album. How does the process of “featuring” work? Do you just owe them a pint or something?It comes when we feel we’ve got something that would be a great match for an artist. With Damon, it was easy because we love working with him. We’re about to be on the new Gorillaz album (4). Snoop was also performing on the record when we were over there. He pulled us to the side and said: “Hey man, we’ve never worked together, can we get this going?” Usually the lawyers will say: “You can pay this artist or maybe we can swap?” and then it goes from there.How much of the Gorillaz album is done? Have you heard it? What’s it like? Have you done your bits yet?We actually sat down with Damon two weeks ago and he played us some of the new Gorillaz album, and it sounds amazing. He played us a track that he wants us to get off on his album so we got to get in the studio and put that down.Aren’t you worried about being the only humans in a cartoon world again, like in the video to Feel Good Inc?That’s what makes it fun. You get your little acting chops going. You’ve got to act like someone is standing next to you. It’s pretty cool when they put it all together and you see how your little acting part went down.Your new single, Royalty Capes, features saxophones and poetry. Is there anything you can’t do?Ha. Put it like this. There’s nothing we shy away from. You can do a blues record, a jazz record, a country and western record. As long as you marry the right aspect of who you are to it, it can work.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for De La Soul’s single Royalty CapesWhen you play in France, are people disappointed that you’re not a French-speaking soul group?That’s funny. When we first came out in New York, people thought we were Hispanic – they thought we were De La Sol as in sol as in sun. Lots of people originally assumed we were from overseas.You do realise you’d fail GCSE French?When we first came to the UK, we were like, “Why is everyone saying like, ‘De La’?” We’re like, “Day La …”Would you like to record an album in French one day?I would be up for that challenge of working with a French artist, but my French is definitely not good at all. Dave [AKA Plug Two], now Dave, his parents being of Haitian descent, he understands a little bit better than me.So we probably won’t see Trois Pieds Haute Et En Hausee released anytime soon?No. Ha!You recorded 3 Feet High and Rising by transmitting music from Mars by using three microphone plugs. Wasn’t there a cheaper way?There’s always a cheaper way. You unfortunately learn what you did wrong after you waste the money.De La Soul’s new album And the Anonymous Nobody is released on 26 August.Footnotes1) 1985 film where Richard Prior has to spend $30m within 30 days to inherit $300m. Come on! You remember 1985. It wasn’t that long ago.2) Also featuring a Face/Off mode, which allows you to chat with singles in your area, except all of their profile pictures have been replaced by a picture of John Travolta.3) A recent study by the Technion University in Israel found that sperm counts were affected in 47% of men who kept their phones in their pocket.4) The new Gorillaz album is expected in 2017.