 There’s one thing that might surprise fans of Walking Dead creator Robert Kirkman, the comic book author and TV series writer and producer whose apocalyptic stories about death, gore and zombies loom so large in the pop culture zeitgeist – he calls himself an “optimist” about the future of humanity.That’s right. Never mind the dark themes explored across his TV portfolio – also including spin-off show Fear the Walking Dead and now Outcast, a new supernatural thriller that’s yet another series based on a Kirkman comic book – or the real-life horrible phenomena he sees marching across headlines and TV news tickers like some shambling horde of zombies. He’s convinced humanity is ultimately going to be fine.The characters who populate the Kirkman universe, like whoever Negan apparently beat to death in The Walking Dead’s much-speculated-about season six finale? That is, of course, another matter. “I think it’s a concern everyone has. The news and media are what make us all terrified for the potential of the future. But I actually think history has shown when we get down to it, as a whole, we strive for excellence and solve our problems in productive ways,” says Kirkman.“While I do see water crises and antibiotics not working any more and the threat of global climate change – all of this looming on the horizon in very terrifying ways, I think there are actually a good deal of very intelligent people and compassionate people working to solve these problems. It just … doesn’t always show in my work.” He allows himself a chuckle at the irony.That’s because Kirkman has been best known for twisted creations like The Walking Dead which drip with despair. But that’s too narrow these days to encompass the myriad projects touched in some way by the self-confessed workaholic. Kirkman has unquestionably become a major force in the entertainment industry today, presiding over a sprawling, interconnected media empire spanning comics, TVs, video games and more. He enjoys a worldwide fanbase devoted to his stories and to characters whose deaths can cause conniptions on Twitter. And the new projects keep coming.Premiering on Fox in the UK on Tuesday, Outcast is a departure from all the zombie-fuelled mayhem of previous Kirkman series. It centres on a young man plagued by demonic possession, with other characters including an alcoholic preacher who believes he’s a soldier for God against dark forces on earth.Meanwhile, season seven of The Walking Dead kicks off in October, after Fear the Walking Dead returns in August.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robert Kirkman Photograph: Smallz & Raskind/Getty Images for SamsungReflecting on his body of work to date, Kirkman says he thinks zombies will always have an enduring appeal in popular culture for reasons that include their representing “the physical manifestation of everybody’s fear of death. It’s that looming feeling of unavoidable doom, manifested in flesh.“I think because of that, it makes the stories so much more relatable. I also think zombies and demonic possession are very similar in that stories about them don’t focus on the supernatural element. When you have a vampire story, it’s about vampires. When it’s about demons and zombies, it’s about the people dealing with that supernatural phenomenon from an outside perspective. ‘What is this? Why is this happening? This is scary – what do I do?’“I love the horror genre. I also think the exorcism genre has just as many nooks and crannies that have somehow gone unexplored over the years. There’s a lot of room to twist the genre in different kinds of interesting ways. To take something that’s familiar to a large number of people and do something different with it.”That is a reference, of course, to Outcast. Beyond that, though, he has another show being readied for a premiere in 2017. It’s a documentary series for AMC, with the working title Heroes and Villains: The History of Comic Books. Kirkman is co-executive producing the series through his company Skybound Entertainment along with David Alpert, a fellow executive producer on The Walking Dead.Kirkman launched Skybound with Alpert in 2010, and in the years since, it has launched TV shows, merchandise and more, as a hub for new ideas from Kirkman and other creators he works with - among the most recent is Outcast, a TV adaptation of the Skybound/Image comic.One way Kirkman balances the demands from these and other projects is to wake up early – 5am most days – to write and be creative before the pressures of the day start mounting. He reads his Twitter feed and acknowledges keeping up with fans’ reaction to his work. “I feel it’s important, as a creator,” he says. “It doesn’t necessarily inform where the story goes from beat to beat, from season to season. But it helps give a sense of what writing is the most effective.”Even though he has sold millions of comic books and has created one of the biggest franchises on TV today, there’s a part of Kirkman that still appears to observe all this at a remove. It still seems so improbable, he confesses, that the phenomenon he dreamt up in his basement when he was 23 would spawn TV properties, video games and action figures.Bask in it too deeply, get too wrapped up in all the social media chatter, and it’s the kind of thing, he says, that could make you crazy. Better to keep your head down and concentrate on the next thing, because there’s always something else – the writers’ room, production questions, a story addition, a million other things tugging at his sleeve.On a recent Outcast shoot, he was watching through the monitors while also writing new material for the Walking Dead comic book series on his laptop. “I’m always out there living life, as they say,” Kirkman says. “And I always have my notepad, am always taking notes. Maybe somebody will have said a funny line I think might be great for Negan on The Walking Dead. I have little folders for each different thing. I can pull it from a file and just starting working it into a story. I’m always working.“If I ever slowed down for even a minute, I would die. I always have to keep moving. To a certain extent, I try to only see the flaws in all my work, so that will drive me to work harder and get better.”Curriculum vitaeAge 37Career 2000 co-creator, superhero parody Battle Pope 2003 co-creator, Invincible with artist Cory Walker, began comic series The Walking Dead with artist Tony Moore 2004 joins Marvel comics 2008 partner, Image Comics 2010 launches Skybound Entertainment, producer, TV adaptation of The Walking Dead 2013 miniseries, Outcast 2015 producer, scifi thriller Air