Mastermind 7.30pm, BBC2The question setters for tonight’s episode have the opportunity to uncork pub quiz classic: the middle name of Harry S Truman. The contestant specialising in the life of the 33rd president of the United States will probably have seen that one coming, however. Other specialist subjects tested are the World Cup, the works of REM, and the Scandinavian political drama Borgen, which John Humphrys should handicap by asking the questions in Danish. Andrew MuellerAmazing Spaces Shed of the Year 8pm, Channel 4What a pure delight this show has been – everyone involved should be applauded for shining a frankly much-needed beacon of undiluted loveliness on to 2016. However, before tonight’s grand finale, there are two categories left to play for: budget sheds, and cabins and summerhouses, including a shed on wheels, a painstaking recreation of a 1940s Canadian lodge, and a beach hut built for just £20 by a hilariously excitable Will Hardie fan. Ali CatterallHighlands: Scotland’s Wild Heart 9pm, BBC2Very much a standard modern BBC nature series, in that it’s visually stunning but suffers from a slightly overwrought script. As autumn arrives and preparations begin for the privations of winter, there’s plenty at which to marvel. Reindeers rut. Squirrels hide nuts (and decoy nuts to fool other squirrels). And, most memorably, grey seals make sweet love before collapsing into blissful post-coital embraces among the crashing Orkney waves. Phil HarrisonSummer of Love 9pm, PBS AmericaPBS paints a more nuanced picture of the Summer Of Love than history books provide, transporting us to 1967 San Francisco through archive footage and interviews with former hippies. Expect subversion, rock’n’roll and lots of LSD. The flaws of the hippie movement aren’t overlooked – we learn how popularity quashed its true spirit, and about the drug culture behind all those cosmic experiences. Micha Frazer-CarrollFriday Night Dinner 10pm, Channel 4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cast chemistry … Friday Night Dinner. Photograph: Mark Johnson/Channel 4With the exception of the Siddiquis from Gogglebox, the Goodmans are arguably the funniest family on British telly right now. Each episode of Robert Popper’s sitcom highlights the chemistry between Simon Bird, Tom Rosenthal, Tamsin Greig and Paul Ritter. This week, Uncle Saul’s funeral means Martin’s mum – AKAHorrible Grandma – is back in town, making Adam and Jonny’s squabbling seem good-natured by comparison. Hannah J DaviesIt’s Not Me, It’s You 10pm, Channel 5Eamonn Holmes welcomes his wife Ruth Langsford to the dating-themed panel show. In her absence, she’s often the subject of the host’s self-mockery, so now she can turn the screw in person. Also guesting on the series closer are Russell Kane, Al Porter and Carol Vorderman. There’s cheeky banter – personified by Kelly Brook as one team captain – but the show is made somewhat edgier by her rival, the naturally hilarious Vicky Pattison. Jack SealeMonty Python: Live at Aspen 11.40pm, GoldFilmed in 1998, this sees the surviving Pythons already well advanced on the reminiscence trail that has lasted a good deal longer than their heyday as a group. Hosted by Robert Klein and featuring a staged intervention by Eddie Izzard, this reunion also features some funny business involving the late Graham Chapman’s urn as the group discuss, among other things, the absurdities of their rock star-style success. David StubbsOlympic ChoiceFor all the Jamaican sprint fans, there’s a final chance to see the lightning Bolt in action as his Jamaican team take part in the men’s 4x100m relay (2.35am, BBC1). Elsewhere, there’s one of the more unusual components of an unusual event as the women’s modern pentathlon takes on combined running and shooting (10pm, BBC2). It’s also the final of the women’s football competition, held in the Maracanã stadium (9.30pm, BBC1). Paul MacInnesFilm ChoiceThe Martian(Ridley Scott, 2015) Friday, 1.35pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereThis expertly staged screening of Andy Weir’s novel about extreme self-sufficiency in space has astronaut Mark Watney accidentally marooned on Mars, air and food running out, and no means of communication. Does this daunt him? Not a bit, as he decides to “science the shit out of this”, becoming the red planet’s first potato farmer. It’s a role perfectly suited to the engaging everyman qualities of Matt Damon, who also reveals a talent for funny one-liners. A hugely enjoyable, suspenseful piece of sci-fi.Fast Girls(Regan Hall, 2012) 7.15pm, Film4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A feelgood flurry … Fast Girls.The winning tale of a British 4x100m female relay team – just what you want with the Olympics on. Like an athletics version of Bend It Like Beckham, its characters verge on the stereotypical – Shania, the black kid from the sink estate (Lenora Crichlow); Lisa (Lily James), the white middle-class girl with the dictatorial dad. But there’s a bright young cast, with Noel Clarke as coach Tommy, and it sprints home in a feelgood flurry.