‘I went on TV, tried to chat up a bird, failed – and now I’m a role model?’Jodie, 31, is a postal worker from Newcastle. She dated Laura then LouiseWhen I said I was going on First Dates people were like ‘Is that that Undateables one?’ Nah man, I said – it’s the other one when you go on a date with a total stranger. After I was on TV, my phone didn’t stop going. The reaction was a bit mental like.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   JodieAnd you know that Others folder in Facebook? Full. There were nice messages: one from a woman in Brazil going through a divorce, who said my rants cheered her up. I was like eh – it’s me complaining about slipping in dog poo on my post round! Another woman in Scotland said her daughter watched us and her face lit up. She was 15 and she’d just come out, and she said there’s no role models for young gay girls. I went on TV, got mortal, tried to chat up a bird, failed – now I’m being told I’m a role model.I woke up the morning after, hungover, going I think I may have said ‘show me your pussy’ in front of a load of TV cameras. When I watched the show, it was as new to me as it was to you. I was that drunk. On the train home, they rung us and asked if I would come back on. Then I asked to be matched with Cheryl Cole mixed with Katy Perry, which I never thought I’d get. I still don’t know how they managed to find Louise. We’re still mates, but it never worked out. To be honest, I’ve only been on three dates since the show. One woman used to wear wigs, and she’d look like the girl from The Ring when she got drunk. Another suggested we go to Warwick Castle. She opened her bag and I happen to have a glance inside, and I was like WHOA what’s that? She went, ‘Them’s me knives.’ We’re not talking butter knives here, we’re talking proper flip-out hunting knives. I never saw her again.The third date, I picked her up and drove her to South Shields. We walked along the beachfront, sat on some rocks in the baking sunshine and we could hear music. It turned out Billy Ocean was doing a concert, and we could hear it perfectly. After that we went and got an ice-cream and the woman behind the counter recognised me from TV. I tried to shuffle away, but she shouts after us, ‘She looks lovely!’ It was worse than if you’d bumped into your mother on a date. ‘People look at me and think: is this contagious?’Chuks, 38, is a support worker from Surrey. He dated Grace      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ChuksI wish I could make people see past the cover of the book. I have friends who have made it their life’s mission to set me up. But they sometimes forget to tell the person I have a disability.I’ve had all sorts: people look at you and think is this contagious? Or they look at your disability and their eyes glaze over. They become cold or hostile, or they go to the other end of the spectrum – overly nice, very patronising. Or you go for a date and they bring a friend.Everyone works too much, so there’s no time for a social life. Why not go on a dating show? It wasn’t a get-your-own-back at my ex-girlfriend. She’s in Nigeria, so she probably wouldn’t see it anyway. Yes, that’s the ex I got the wedding invite from – her wedding to another man – when I thought we were together.I’m still single and still searching. I am a hopeless romantic. I’m looking for what my parents have: they’ve been married 51 years. When they’re together they hold hands, look into each other’s eyes. It’s still exciting for them. I want that feeling.‘An art professor asked to sketch me nude – he liked fat guys’Thomas, 49, is a masseur from London. He dated Patrick and Colin      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ThomasIt’s very difficult for someone with HIV to date. Gay dating apps aren’t really for dating, and I’ve tried placing classifieds in the paper, though most replies I get are abusive. I’ve been asked by an art professor if he could sketch me in the nude as a first date. This was when I was 26 stone – he liked fat guys. (He put it that bluntly.) When they find out I’m half-German, that’s the worst. I’ve had men ask more than once if I’d be willing to put on a uniform. You can guess what sort of uniform.I’ve been an HIV campaigner for a long time so I had no problem being very open on the show about my partner dying. I went on for the cause, and hoping I’d find the person to marry me. I wanted to highlight that there are people dating with HIV who look quite normal. Attitudes haven’t changed at all over the years. If I were to go to a gay bar and wear a red ribbon, the room would divide instantly. I lost half my body weight in 2014. I had been off dating for 20 years, but my friends said ‘Now you’re fit and feel good, get back out there.’ I really like myself now; in the past I didn’t. I haven’t given up hope.There’s been no offers of any dates since the show, sadly. My only long-term partner was 20 years my senior, and he was a doctor. I want someone who’s intellectual, at least my age but preferably 10 years older. I want to be in a monogamous relationship. I believe in one partner for life, or one partner at a time for life. If my partner hadn’t died, I’m quite sure I’d still be with him.‘I had to walk out’Jo, 43, is a teacher from London. She dated Gus      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   JoI’d had a really rough week when I walked out of my date with Gus. I’d been seeing someone much younger who I’d grown fond of, and I’d sensibly said the age gap was an issue so we called it a day. I just happen to date younger men. Men my age don’t seem to have maintained themselves to the same level, and everyone’s married. Gus fit the hole I have on paper: he’s divorced, he’s got kids. But we weren’t suited at all ... he reminded me of my dad and we had nothing to talk about.These dating algorithms online don’t seem to be matching people. I’ve spoken to a guy that’s a 97% match, and there’s gulfs between us. Dating needs to either get more innovative – or more old-fashioned. What about just one of those team-building days? I’d build a raft with a guy. You can tell a lot about a guy by how he builds a raft! The students at my school never watch TV (too busy on YouTube) so I didn’t think they’d watch me on First Dates. But they did – and they were so brilliant. They were like ‘Miss, Miss, we’re gonna bang him Miss! Why did you go out with that guy?! You have to go back on it for us, Miss, there’s a man for you Miss. Try again.’ ‘I put a ring on it’Dan, 42, is a communications manager from Sunderland. He dated Adam My first date with Adam was three hours long; they had to chuck us out of the restaurant. We hadn’t even had pudding!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   DanI decided to go on the show out of desperation. I’d been single for nine years. I was so nervous. My first thought about Adam was ‘He won’t be interested in me at all.’ He’s so broad-shouldered and manly. But here we are, six months later. It’s been a total whirlwind.Adam and I got engaged on Christmas day, which is his birthday too. I left him a stocking at the end of his bed, and the ring box was in the toe. When he got the box out, he gave me a funny look, opened it up and then I proposed. His eyes filled up a little bit, then he said ‘Yes, yes I will.’ Before we met, I lived 250 miles away in Sunderland. Two months later, I moved to Bury St Edmunds. It was really weird, we met on the Sunday on the show and we had four dates that week. I happened to have meetings in Ipswich on the Tuesday and Wednesday, so we went to Pizza Express and out for more drinks. Then I came down again on the Friday and met his Mam and Dad. Adam was late home from work and his Mam’s very punctual so at 4pm on the dot she was stood there. When he walked in later, we were chatting on the sofa and he just said ‘I see you’ve met me Mam then.’ At first it was just, oh I’ll stay for the weekend, oh I’ll stay down this week ... but we kicked off the new year with me moving even more stuff down and ordering Fibre Broadband together. If that’s not commitment I don’t know what is!  If you’d told me six months ago that I’d have left my beloved north-east, met the man I want to spend the rest of my life with, that there’s no tension ever and we laugh constantly, I’d have said you must be crazy.‘I’ve been Catfished’Marcus, 22, is a designer from Basingstoke. He dated Claudia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   MarcusBefore First Dates, I never really went on any dates to be honest. Since I was on the show I’ve taken the wrong path and kind of been a serial dater. I was dating two or three times a week then wouldn’t see them again. I’ve slowed that down; I wasn’t getting to know anyone. I didn’t really care.I’ve been Catfished by one date. I thought I was speaking to a woman online and it turned out to be a bloke. She said she was shy so didn’t want to talk on the phone. We ended up meeting. I was sitting on a bench and being texted that she was about to get off the bus. I couldn’t see her anywhere. Eventually, this bloke was staring at me and starts waving. The worst date I’ve ever been on though was when I met a girl at uni and she asked if I wanted to have a meal at Westfield shopping centre. We met up and as we were walking around she kept wanting to buy me things. I was saying no, it’s fine. She got quite persistent. We barely spoke again after that day, then weeks later she turned up at my house with all the things I refused to let her buy me. She’d bought thousands of pounds worth of clothes and trainers. She said I thought it’d look nice on you, it doesn’t matter, it’s not my money. It’s my dad’s. I just said give it back and give your dad his money back. But it didn’t stop there. She started sending flatscreen TVs, games consoles, iPhones. I’d like to think I’ve been in love. I was in a relationship for three years; we broke up in 2014. Being in love gives you that rollercoaster kind of feeling in your stomach – but you’ve got a nice taste in your mouth at the same time. • First Dates returns to Channel 4 on Tuesday at 9pm.