Whether it’s through overuse or greenwashing, terms like “eco” and “green” often seem to elicit eye-rolling and sighing from a wide swath of the sustainability community. Distaste for those terms may be about the only thing on which some environmentalists and climate-change deniers can agree.Is “sustainability” going the way of eco and green? And are any words fit to describe the environmental and social movement going forward?We asked readers to weigh in on Twitter and in a Guardian poll. After the dust settled, the only thing clear from all the tweets and votes is that opinions vary – broadly.The GreenShows called sustainability “a fan favorite”. Trafford GasMaskBoy also likes sustainability, along with “healthy”, “viable”, “progressive” and “future-friendly”.Meanwhile, Dan Saccardi says the word “ecoefficiency” gets to him “because it settles for marginal/intenisty gains rather than substantial impact”. And Bryony Cunningham isn’t keen on “social licence to operate” because, as she puts it, the phrase “sounds James Bond-y and not concise when really just about reputation”.Colin Josef Rice included “green” in his list of words – along with “natural” and “innovative” – that he hates. But the word was one of the faves – along with “renewable”, “ethical” and “upcycled” – for the folks at Blue Patch.Other words tweeters suggested include: purpose,ethical, ecochic, considerate, thoughtful, off-setting, a version of “Roi” (return on investment), securing the future, minimal throughout, no growth and creative stabilization.Even the hashtag for this discussion – #sustywords – generated its own raves and flames. Is susty “a dire word” that’s “never going to happen”, as Imogen Birt claims, or will it be “the buzzword of 2014” as Daniel G Nemet predicts? Dafna Nudelman ‏tweeted that “susty” is “the worst of all”, while la leaf responded: “i love susty – like sassy and lusty rolled up into one!”Check out more of the discussion – including photos, Facebook posts and interviews – in the roundup below.This article was originally published 18 October 2013. It was republished 24 March 2015 to restore content that was lost when it was switched to the new web design.Amy DuFault is a writer and sustainable fashion consultant. In addition to being a former co-owner of an eco-boutique and a rep for sustainable designers, she coaches the sustainable fashion community.Jennifer Kho is the US editor for Guardian Sustainable Business.The sustainable living hub is funded by Unilever. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled brought to you by. Find out more here.