Benedict Cumberbatch’s Hamlet has received four Olivier award nominations, including best actor for his portrayal of the Shakespearean prince at the Barbican.The actor’s revival of the tragedy was the fastest-selling show in London theatre history but opened to mixed reviews last summer. Cumberbatch will be up against British theatre royalty in the best actor category, with Kenneth Branagh nominated for The Winter’s Tale, Adrian Lester for his role as Ira Aldrige in Red Velvet, and Kenneth Cranham for The Father. Mark Rylance, fresh from his Oscar win on Sunday night, is also nominated for best actor for the Globe’s new production, Farinelli and the King, at Duke of York’s Theatre.Olivier awards 2016: complete list of nominations Branagh’s season at the Garrick secured seven nominations, including best supporting actress for Dame Judi Dench for The Winter’s Tale – her 15th Olivier nomination. Jonathan Kent’s sell-out revival of the musical Gypsy at the Savoy Theatre picked up eight nominations, including best actress for Imelda Staunton and best musical revival.Staunton said the wide range of ages and ethnicities represented across the nominations, both in the performance and the technical categories, was evidence that British theatre was far better at embracing diversity than the film industry. “I think we tackle diversity by those young writers at the Royal Court, by getting those female directors and producers out there,” she said. “I think we look at it a bit more because although shows have to make money, that’s not all it is about – it’s about getting in an audience and telling a story that reflects today.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gemma Arterton, centre, in Nell Gwynn by Jessica Swale at the Apollo theatre. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianGemma Arterton’s return to the West End stage, taking the title role in the Globe’s play Nell Gwynn, was recognised with a nomination for best actress, and the production is also in the running for best new comedy. Nell Gwynn, a play about Charles II’s favourite mistress, premiered at the Globe theatre in 2015, with Gugu Mbatha-Raw in the lead role, then transferred to the West End. It was a good showing overall for the Globe, picking up 10 nominations altogether, including best new play for Farinelli and the King, Claire van Kampen’s study of the healing impact of music on the bipolar Spanish king Philippe V. It will go up against People, Places and Things, which premiered at the National Theatre; Hangmen, which initially ran at the Royal Court; and The Father, which premiered at the Tricycle before transferring to the West End.Can you recognise the West End shows up for the Oliviers' audience award? Also competing for best actress will be Nicole Kidman, for her return to the London stage in Photograph 51. This year’s nominations emphasised the recent trend of adapting films into successful West End productions. Kinky Boots, which began life as an independent film in 2005 and was adapted into a Broadway musical with music by Cyndi Lauper, transferring to London in August, picked up seven nominations. It was a similar story for the stage version of Bend it Like Beckham, which closes on 5 March after a year-long run at the Phoenix Theatre, and which picked up three nominations. Lauren Samuels, who plays Jules in the production, described the nominations as “bittersweet” but said there were negotiations for the show to go on tour, both in the UK and internationally.Despite being mired in turmoil over the past year, with its staff currently on strike over proposed cuts, the English National Opera managed to pick up four nominations, including best opera production for The Force of Destiny.The veteran musical actor Michael Ball, who announced the list, said. “I think these nominations show that British theatre is really healthy, with great new writing, great new productions and great new comedies, which is the lifeblood of what we do. It’s alive and it’s thrilling.” The Olivier awards are in their 40th year.• This article was amended on 1 March 2016. An earlier version referred to Hamlet as a king, rather than a prince, and said that the production received three, rather than four, nominations.