“Where can it be found again, an elsewhere world, beyond maps and atlases,” wrote Seamus Heaney in the final lines of A Herbal, a poem in which human mortality is contrasted with the circular and continuous life force that is nature – lush grass growing from earth in a graveyard. When Dutch photographer, Bertien van Manen, was searching for a title for her new book, which was made during several visits to Ireland in the wake of her husband’s death, she came upon the line and was immediately taken by its evocation of “that faraway world that is beyond everything”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The statue of Jesus: Clifden, Connemara. Photograph: Bertien van ManenBeyond Maps and Atlases is a book in which death is an oblique presence, hinted at in ghostly landscapes – mist-shrouded fields, looming trees, shadowy rural nightscapes – and in images of the Atlantic, that vast emptiness that lies beyond the west of Ireland. It is also, inevitably, a book about the profound absence that the death of someone close leaves in its wake. “I started out with no idea of what I was doing,” she says, “but slowly images of people gave way to images of nature as the work became more and more imbued with a kind of mystical feeling that is hard to describe. There is so much water in Ireland – the rain, of course, but lakes and rivers and this vast sea that surrounds it. In retrospect, I can see that perhaps I was looking for the mystery in this big nothing that lies beyond the edge of the land.”Van Manen, who was born in the Hague in 1942 and started out working as a fashion photographer in 1977, uses a cheap analogue snapshot camera, which, she says, helps put her subjects at ease. It also imbues her images with a slightly otherworldly aura. Her style approaches a kind of heightened observational photography, moving between the intimate and the impressionistic with a deceptive ease.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tulan Beach, Co. Donegal from Beyond Maps and Atlases. Photograph: Bertien van ManenVan Manen’s Ireland is all her own, imbued with both a strong sense of place and an attendant sense of mystery. An image of a line of riders on horseback crossing a sandy beach looks more like the Russian Steppes than rural Donegal. Elsewhere, a statue of Christ, arms aloft, rises out of the darkness like an apparition, so dazzlingly white that it appears, at first, to be a silhouette cut out of the print. A dead lamb is another study in whiteness, though this time defiled by bloody innards and entrails. Nature here may be mystical, but it is also red in tooth and claw. Heaney, you feel, would have approved.Van Manen’s restless imagination has, in the past, taken her to Russia (A Hundred Summers, A Hundred Winters), China (East Wind West Wind) and the Appalachians (Moonshine). Beyond Maps and Atlases continues, and deepens, that sense of a continuous journey into place and belonging. On each stage of her several visits to Ireland, she was accompanied by a local photographer: Martin McGagh, Paul Gaffney, Ciarán Óg Arnold and Jim McKeever are among the names on her “thank you’ list.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The waves, Donegal. Photograph: Bertien van Manen“I started out with Paul and he handed me over to Martin,” she says, laughing. “It was just an interesting way of working with people who knew each place and were also making their own work along the way. I was also guided by the Irish writers I love: Heaney, John Banville and John McGahern. McGahern, in particular, wrote about what lies under the surface, the bad things that nobody wants to see but everyone knows about. “Everyone has their fantasy Ireland, but underneath, it is a place where life was – and is – often dark and difficult. That is in the pictures too, I hope.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yellow road: Ballyvaughan. Photograph: Bertien van ManenAn exhibition of the images in Beyond Maps and Atlases will open in Belfast on 14 January. As in the book, Van Manen will present her photographs without any accompanying information, allowing the viewer to “have space to bring their own imagination”. She finds it hard to speak about individual images other than to make clear that they needed, on some instinctive level, to be taken.“I am looking for the enigmatic,” she says. “There is an image of a yellow road at night, for instance, that was taken from the car. I asked Martin [McGagh] to go back along the road several times before I found the picture. I was sure I needed it but I was not sure why.”That is perhaps the essential mystery at the heart of Van Manen’s work, a mystery best articulated by another Irish artist, Van Morrison, who famously sang “It ain’t why, it just is.”Beyond Maps and Atlases is at Belfast Exposed, Belfast from 15 January to 19 March.This article was amended on 12 January to correct the final picture caption to the correct spelling of Ballyvaughan