The votes are in – record number of them. More than 1,500 have been cast in this year’s competition. That’s impressive enough in itself – but even more so when you consider our rules and that more than 1,500 reviews have also been written, and more than 1,500 second preference votes also cast. So despite the really very modest prize on offer, our uniquely democratic judging process (any reader can help decide) seems to be attracting growing interest.I’m happy to say that – as far as I know – it has been a relatively orderly and respectable process this year. There have been a few accusations of entryism and outside pressure, but it wouldn’t be a proper election without some controversy, and I’d say we’re doing much better than most. Not least because we know have an interesting and unusual group of books to consider. Here’s our current top six, chosen from the 147 books longlisted, ranked by number of votes:The Combinations by Louis Armand (Equus) – 123The Less Than Perfect Legend of Donna Creosote by Dan Micklethwaite (Bluemoose Books) – 101Walking the Lights by Deborah Andrews (Freight Books) – 99The Summer That Melted Everything by Tiffany McDaniel (Scribe) – 98Chains of Sand by Jemma Wayne (Legend Press) – 80What Will Remain by Dan Clements (Silvertail) – 61It’s going to be intriguing to see how those votes get turned around as we move through the competition.At this stage in the proceedings, I generally like to complain about how much the counting has made my head hurt, but this time, I can’t. All credit for battling through those votes has to go to Lisa L Jones, a TLS stalwart and all-conquering spreadsheet hero. She’s done all the hard work, in close consultation with me about rules and eligibility, and I can’t thank her enough. I also have to thank everyone who voted and contributed: it’s already a bumper year and that’s a fine feeling. I hope you aren’t too upset if your favourite book didn’t get through, and that you’ll stay with us through the rest of the competition as we see how those that did make it on to the list measure up.On the subject of those books, many of them are entirely new to me, and I’m guessing to most other readers too. That always makes things more exciting. It’s also good to see that we’ve got a 50/50 split when it comes to gender, as well as an all-independent set of finalists. I know something about one or two of the authors, but at this stage I won’t make any comment as I’ll be hoping to take each book on its own merits.On that subject, I’ll be posting reviews just-about-weekly from now on, building up to our call for votes on 17 October. I’ll read in reverse alphabetical order, just to shake things up a little. Some of you will have realised that this means we’ll start with Jemma Wayne’s Chains of Sand. I hope you’ll join me in reading it. I especially hope you’ll join me because, like last year, we’re hoping to find three judges whose opinions will be counted alongside the public vote in the final round. Look out for an article explaining more about that next week. For now, in case you want to jump in and get reading, the relevant section from our high and mighty terms and conditions:11. Three readers will be selected by the Guardian to form a panel of judges from those readers who have made substantial contributions to the discussion of the shortlisted books. The process by which these readers are chosen is left studiously vague and is at the Guardian’s discretion. These judges undertake to read at least three of the six-book shortlist before the final judging meeting.And now we can get to the best bit: the actual reading of actual books. Game on!