 “We become artists in the act of creating art, not because we have studied or been paid,” writes François Matarasso in a piece on A Restless Art blog. “It is ‘artisting’ that makes us artists, nothing else.” Matarasso’s article is a fine reminder that anachronistic attempts to distinguish between professional and amateur artists are breaking down. After all, this week the RSC’s production of A Midsummer Night’s Dream: A Play for the Nation goes on a tour of 11 venues across the UK, with different local amateur performers appearing as the Rude Mechanicals, alongside the professional cast.It’s becoming increasingly obvious that community engagement is at the heart of some of the most exciting arts organisations. That’s a result of cultural shifts meaning that all of us, at different times, will want to be makers as well as consumers. Many of us don’t just want to be an audience, we want to have a go at what Matarasso calls “artisting” too. That’s crucial to remember in a week in which Arts Council England’s Taking Part survey showed a decline in engagement with the arts. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport has announced that while its five-year plan for sport will concentrate on grassroots participation, its plan for the arts has a different emphasis: buildings. It is grassroots and everyday cultural opportunities that increase participation, not creating buildings.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Sheen in National Theatre Wales’s The Passion. Photograph: Tim Ireland/PAIs an amateur group that revives a new play previously only seen at the Royal Court or the Traverse really doing any less for new writing than many professional organisations? Is the NPO-funded Slung Low a professional company when it makes White Whale with a professional cast and creatives – and not one when it works with Sheffield People’s Theatre to make Camelot: Shining City? Was National Theatre Wales’ The Passion (one of the best shows I’ve ever seen) of less artistic merit because it involved the community? The young Warwick University company Breach Theatre will be out on tour soon with their Edinburgh hit The Beanfield. So are they amateurs when they are performing on home ground in Warwick and suddenly professionals when they are performing at NPO-funded buildings such as Home in Manchester or Battersea Arts Centre, London, as part of A Nation’s Theatre? Are professional artists suddenly less professional when they take part in an artist-led initiative such as Buzzcut, in which they may or may not make some money, collected from the pay-what-you-can audience?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Beanfield at Edinburgh fringe, 2015. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianThe Edinburgh fringe is the point at which many graduate companies start calling themselves professionals, even though they may still have much craft to learn. One of the things that has been apparent from the RSC’s Open Stages strand of work, initiated by Michael Boyd, which led to A Midsummer Night’s Dream: A Play for the Nation, is that the RSC has learned as much from those who are putting on theatre for fun as the amateurs have learned from the RSC. Amateur theatre is a fine training ground and has a significant role to play within the community. In amateur dramatics, the play’s not just the thing, because other benefits accrue. This is currently the subject of a major piece of academic research. It’s clear that the old demarcations or notions of what is professional and amateur no longer hold and that means that the theatre industry will have to adjust accordingly. After all, in my own field, some of the most interesting writing about theatre is being done by bloggers who are not paid by anyone to post. But you wouldn’t call them amateurs, so why does the theatre industry persist in calling those who don’t get paid “amateurs” in such a derogatory manner?Why every artist should be a community artist Some of the most radical work at the moment is being made by youth theatre groups working with professional artists.Without the involvement of non-professional actors, the RSC’s version of A Midsummer Night’s Dream simply wouldn’t have happened. Community involvement was at the very heart of the project. It’s a very different case from a theatre simply deciding that it will use amateur actors because they can save money on the wages bill. The RSC’s Play for the Nation is a community project and it’s great to see a national flagship organisation recognising that it has a role to play in this field. I hope they will do more of it. Some have expressed surprise at the levels of artistry demonstrated by the non-professional actors – this reflects an unfamiliarity with the thriving voluntary arts sector, where people make theatre not just for love, but with consistently high levels of artistry – and play a vital role within their communities. 