“I’m secretly hoping that something goes wrong tonight,” says Cheryl serenely to a table of her fellow contestants, while their hosts pace around the kitchen. Cheryl knows that she and her boyfriend Matt will probably go home, but they’re still hoping for the best.My Kitchen Rules: comfort food ruined by attempting to be something spicier I wish they could stay, too. Cheryl, who is in her 50s, refers to herself as the “cougar” and 26-year-old Matt as her “cub”. And sure they can’t make a caesar salad to save themselves, but since when has that ever made for good television?The seventh season of My Kitchen Rules began last week and it’s already inescapable. Last night’s episode alone brought in more than 2.7 million Australian viewers. It dominates social media in a way other cooking shows never have, precisely because it involves contestants called Cougar and Cub, who openly wish failure upon their fellow competitors, and discuss how cooking together makes them want to have sex over a montage of them riding bikes while laughing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cheryl and Matt, aka Cougar and Cub, from season seven of My Kitchen Rules Photograph: Channel SevenMKR mostly hinges on the “instant restaurant” phase that dominates the first half of the series, whereby the teams are forced to entertain a butter-obsessed Manu Feildel, the human activated almond Pete Evans and a group of hostile strangers, in their very own home. It’s in this portion of the show, which is by far the most talked and tweeted about, where MKR’s brilliance is set in amber. Perhaps because these contestants are living out our darkest desire: being able to go to someone’s house for dinner and truthfully telling our host that their overcooked and indigestible tenderloin dripping in a congealed ooze of “mushroom” “sauce” is the worst garbage we’ve ever pretended to eat. The competitors rely on the scores of their fellow contestants, giving their opponents no choice but to be merciless. After Evans and Feildel pass judgment on the course, the contestants poke at their food with scrunched-up faces, complaining about the flavours being either too strong or too mild, and discussing the right way to cook a chicken liver in a way that falsely suggests they’ve eaten one before.This is a classic MKR trick: if you haven’t yet tasted a type of food, just assume that you deeply hate it. Tell everyone at the table you’re offended it’s even on the menu. If you do happen to like the dish, make sure to repeat the criticisms that the judges have made lest anyone think you don’t know the difference between a good smoked venison and a bad one – because frankly, that would be humiliating.Every contestant is playing make believe, and it is intoxicating. They repeat catch phrases like “hero of the dish” that they’ve learnt from cooking shows on other networks, and try to use technical terms at all times, even if it results in awkward sentences like, “Lamb is by far my favourite protein.” This is a universe where people’s perception of your culinary knowledge is far more important than your actual culinary knowledge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Manu Feildel and Pete Evans, the MKR hosts. Photograph: Channel SevenThis show should be terrible, right? After all, a large portion of it is dedicated to dinner parties with people who often and openly don’t like each other. Feildel and Evans are noticeably absent between courses, as if they can’t stand to be there either.But it’s the tension of a bad dinner party that pushes this fun cooking show into cannot-miss, thank-god-for-online-streaming TV. There’s something cathartic about seeing people act so badly, without repercussions. Then we get to say horrible things about their horrible behaviour on social media, and we don’t face repercussions either! This truly is the golden age of television.Every season sees the construction of at least one “villain” couple. Last year we were taught to despise fine-dining lovers Ash and Camilla from Melbourne; the year before that it was the “bullies” Chloe and Kelly, whose supposed dirty tactics inspired a Boycott MKR Facebook group with more than 6,000 members (the group seems to be opposed to Channel Seven promoting bullying more than the women themselves). It should be noted that the season baddie is pretty much always a young, competitive woman; judging by the ads, in the second group of teams this season is a woman called Jessica who causes an “incident”, which judging by the overwrought severity of the promo’s tone might actually involve setting someone on fire.In the first group this year, the villains are the posh Melbourne lawyers Zana and Gianni. In an especially precious moment, Gianni maintained they would never consider ordering a meat pie because they’ve never eaten one before. Zana, meanwhile, had been making sour facial expressions at every contestant’s dish, while reassuring them all that her team would wipe the floor with them. When she announced that she was serving calf’s liver at her instant restaurant, I was surprised she didn’t lay a mewing baby cow down on the table and rip out its organs herself. My Kitchen Rules: people pushed to breaking point screaming at food The thing that makes MKR more of an enduring zeitgeist-y show than, say, MasterChef is that cooking isn’t actually the main focus. Most of these pairs don’t actually want to be chefs and the set-up of the restaurant space and banter between contestants takes up as much air time as the actual food. Last night Evans reminded everyone that the aim was “simple food, cooked extremely well”; hilariously, the episode before described the contestants as armed with “nothing but self-belief”. Maybe they can’t really cook to restaurant standard – perhaps these people don’t have any discernible talent in any area of their lives at all – but they are absolutely chock full of self-belief. Watching people have meltdowns in the “privacy” of their own homes is captivating television; this we already know. But some of the greatest MKR moments involve teams having to pick themselves back up – sometimes literally off the kitchen floor – and trying to recover from bad feedback to get the next dish out on time. The hope we feel that these contestants can bounce back from disaster – even the contestants we’re told we should hate – represents the beating heart of what can make reality TV great. I may not want to learn how to perfectly prepare a calf’s liver but by god I want to see what happens when people who hate each other are forced to eat one. • My Kitchen Rules aires on Sundays at 7pm, and Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays at 7.30pm, on Channel Seven