‘Movie blood tastes so good’ – on The Neon Demon set with Nicolas Winding Refn When I got sent the script for Neon Demon, I thought the idea and concept was interesting. But some of it I wasn’t sure about. There was a lot of dialogue and it was very literal – it certainly didn’t feel like [Nicolas Refn Winding] at all. His movies don’t explain to the audience so that they easily get what’s happening. I went to the meeting anyway in his house and we talked for an hour about both being foreigners in LA, how we perceive the city, the film industry, and the situation of women in society. We hit it off and were on the same wavelength with everything we were talking about.At some point he asked me what I thought about the script. I said, well, there’s all these things that we’ve been talking about that I feel can be in there, but in this script I’m not so sure about this dialogue and this character. I thought, if we’re going to work in collaboration then I should be honest. I’m going to spend six months of my life with them and we’re going to have a baby together. I don’t want to invest that energy in something if I don’t absolutely believe in it.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So I finished criticising the script and he looked at me and smiled and said, “Well, that’s the fake script. I don’t like giving out the real script to people, agents or casting directors. I’ll send the real one to you – and it’s everything we are talking about.”On the drive home, my agent called me to tell me I’d got the job. And I’m like, “I just left his house?” He wasn’t due to finish the script for a few days, so I took the job without even reading it. We both work a lot on instinct and from the stomach more than the brain. So we got all the brainy stuff [out of the way] during prep for two months, talking, talking, talking, talking, and then by the time we got to the shoot, we could just film.The Neon Demon review: Nicolas Winding Refn makes Zoolander 3, but erotic and evil The Dead Body      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fanning as Jesse.We start with Elle Fanning’s character, Jesse, dead. Then we reveal that somebody is photographing her and we don’t know if he’s just killed her or if he’s visiting a crime scene. And then we go back to Elle, pull out very slowly with the dolly camera and it becomes clear that it’s a photography set. That game of “Is this a murder scene? Is this reality?” was really important for Nic [Refn] to set the tone of the film: don’t expect the expected; you’re sitting watching one thing but actually you’re watching something else. As an artist, it’s interesting to be under that direction and go really extreme. You create something that might polarize, but you’re going to be thinking about it for a week. It’s touching some places that are not so rational. Nic doesn’t want to give you everything digested and manipulated like in most movies.The White TriangleWe were inspired by the work of James Turrell. He’s a sculptor of light, but an architect too. His works become, for me, sacred spaces. That reference gave the triangle in The Neon Demon [pictured, below] a subliminal touch of the spiritual as well.The Colour Blue      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There is a strong use of colour in the film, specifically red and blue, because Nicolas is colourblind to some colours. The blue had a lot to do with the Greek myth Narcissus, and to reflect Elle Fanning’s climactic narcissistic moment, so we did an abstract representation of going to the pond and looking at her reflection in the triangle. That’s when she’s going to transform into red and go from the Alice In Wonderland girl to the empowered beauty queen. It’s very subtle; it’s done with just light and mirrors. If we’d had another $5m it could have been underwater but we had to do it with no money, so it was a minimalist realisation of the Narcissus story.The Colour Red      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jena Malone as Ruby. Photograph: RexI set a base of colours to represent specific emotions. Red meant danger and was in every scene with Jena Malone’s Ruby. We planned this well in advance. At times plans would change though; Nic would say: “It’s dark, but why don’t you go darker?” That’s a sensibility that Nic and I share; the last thing we want to do is to play it safe.The Static Camera      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bella Heathcote (left) as Gigi and Abbey Lee as Sarah.Most of the time, the camera is static. Nic wanted the movie to feel like if you were going through a photography book. He loved telling the story inside the composition of one shot and cutting as little as possible. He wants the audience to be able to fill some gaps that are left for the imagination; that’s more interesting to him than conventional narrative storytelling. For me, it was exciting to try and pack all that [in]. He’s suggesting more than showing; that’s the magic of Nic’s work. It’s poetry.The Neon Demon is out in the UK on Friday 8 July