Alan Cumming to return to Edinburgh festival as cabaret singer The debutHome, various venues, 2006There had been talk of a Scottish national theatre since the early 19th century, so it was with considerable weight of expectation that Vicky Featherstone launched her self-styled “theatre without walls” 10 years ago. She did so in a way that would define its maverick spirit. Not with red carpets, classic texts and theatrical grandees, but with 10 site-specific performances around the country on the same weekend. I saw amateur actors on a ferry in Lerwick, domestic drama in an Aberdeen council flat, a first minister’s question time written by schoolchildren and abseiling actors scaling down a Glasgow tower block. The National Theatre of Scotland had arrived.The global hitBlack Watch, Drill Hall, Edinburgh, 2006For all the careful planning that went into the inaugural year of the NTS, the one thing the company hadn’t anticipated was success. And Black Watch was a world-straddling hit, which would divert its attention for several years to come. Written by Gregory Burke and directed by John Tiffany, it told the story of a band of Fife squaddies on tour in Iraq at the very time when their regiment was being amalgamated into the Royal Regiment of Scotland. Staged on the scale of a military tattoo, it varied from the poetic to the scabrous, from the intimate to the international, as it foregrounded the little-heard voice of the ordinary soldier.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Theatre of conflict ... Black Watch. Photograph: National Theatre of ScotlandThe impossible classicPeer Gynt, Dundee Rep, 2007The NTS was established not only to stage its own work but also to showcase Scotland’s existing companies. This collaboration with Dundee Rep on Ibsen’s unwieldy epic showed what could be achieved with a large permanent ensemble and a director as gifted as Dominic Hill. Sharing out the title role between Keith Fleming and Gerry Mulgrew – both on mesmerising form – Hill staged Colin Teevan’s translation with a vulgar raucousness, beginning with a wedding party in the foyer and continuing with a rock’n’roll swagger. Despite the swearing, comedy and irreverence of this “old whore of a tale”, it still hit a tone of poignancy by the end.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Disturbed imaginings ... Alan Cumming as Macbeth. Photograph: Manuel Harlan via NTOSThe solo turnMacbeth, Tramway, Glasgow, 2013 Famous faces to have worked with the NTS include Siobhan Redmond, Sofie Gråbøl and Billy Boyd, but few have been more starry than Alan Cumming. Having done a cheeky turn as Dionysus, the god of good times, in The Bacchae, the Perthshire-born New Yorker returned to play the whole of Macbeth single-handed. Remarkably, he pulled it off. Working with director John Tiffany, he reconceived the tragedy as the disturbed imaginings of a psychiatric patient. Well cast in every role, he even managed to create a convincingly erotic sex scene between himself as Macbeth and himself as Lady Macbeth.The verse comedyThe Strange Undoing of Prudencia Hart, Tron, Glasgow, 2011National theatres tend to do things on a grand scale, but the “theatre without walls” approach allows the NTS to operate at any level. That includes performing in pubs – the route taken by David Greig’s modern take on the traditional borders ballad. A comically spooky tale of an academic who gets snowed in after a conference in Kelso, it was staged by director Wils Wilson around the bar-room tables where the audience sat. It was like being part of an unusually lively lock-in, complete with rhyming couplets, satirical stings and Kylie Minogue covers.The blockbusterThe James Plays, Edinburgh festival theatre, 2015The critic who claimed The James Plays plays were better than Shakespeare may have been overstating the case, but there’s no denying the accomplishment of Rona Munro’s historical trilogy. That Laurie Sansom chose to mark his arrival as artistic director of the NTS with a production spanning nearly eight hours demonstrated either recklessness or rare confidence. Either way, he did an impressive job of turning a little-known period of 15th-century history into something bold, gripping and funny. The three plays are back on tour in 2016.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Better than Shakespeare? ... The James Plays. Photograph: Tommy Ga-Ken WanThe community joyride Ignition, Brae, Shetland, 2013If you live on an island, it’s hard to get by without a car. For many, there isn’t a major life event that happens without motorised transport. That’s why Wils Wilson’s Ignition was not just about cars but performed in them. From inside your vehicle, you heard from hitchhikers, watched displays of free-running and tuned in to stories on the radio. It was a novel experience, but it wasn’t just about the performance. One of many large-scale community projects set up by Simon Sharkey’s Learn department, it was the culmination of a six-month programme of songwriting, parkour training, knitting classes and reminiscence sessions that reached across Shetland.The children’s showGobbo, North Edinburgh Arts Centre, 2006When it comes to performances for younger audiences, it’s tempting to single out Mr Write, in which Rob Drummond conjured up a script about someone in the audience; Dragon, in which Vox Motus told a wordless story about grief; or A Christmas Carol, in which Graham McLaren upped the gothic creepiness. But the one I loved most was Gobbo, a cross between a wild children’s party and an unorthodox fairy story that was as silly as it was imaginative. Written by David Greig (long before Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and The Lorax), it was about a goblin who goes on an epic island quest and was performed with an exhilarating love of make-believe.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Grid Iron’s Roam at Edinburgh airport. Photograph: Richard CampbellThe frequent flierRoam, Edinburgh international airport, 2006Did the disembarking passengers ever realise they were walking into a theatrical performance? Probably not, but for those of us in the audience of Roam, the travellers were the realistic backdrop for a show about international travel, the movement of people and baggage, emotional and physical. Staged by site-specific specialists Grid Iron, Ben Harrison’s production took us beyond the check-in desks to reflect on a globalised world of holidaymakers, terrorists and refugees. Playing with the airport’s duel role as supplier of consumer fantasies and upholder of border controls, the show flew us through light and shade.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Service Wash, performed at the Majestic laundrette in Glasgow as part of Five Minute Theatre. Photograph: Peter SandgroundThe online game-changerFive Minute Theatre, 2011With the possible exception of the Wall of Death fairground act, Five Minute Theatre was the NTS’s most audacious redefinition of what theatre could be. Watched online, it was a 24-hour compendium of mini-plays from around the world, most of them performed and streamed live. Amateurs, professionals, adults, children, old hands and first timers turned up in farmyards, treehouses, libraries, trains and caves. It wasn’t exactly that all of them were good, but such was the variety, imagination and enthusiasm, it was almost impossible to stop watching. See for yourself on the website.• The National Theatre of Scotland production of This Restless House opens on 22 April. The James Plays is at Royal and Derngate, Northampton, 16 and 17 April, then touring.