Chris Rock took aim at the Academy, its detractors and Will Smith during his turn as Oscars host, which managed to find the funny in a controversy that has rumbled on since the all-white nominations were announced in January.In his opening monologue, Rock seemed nervous, delivering lines that skewered the diversity debate in a high-pitched range that was even higher than his signature lofty patter. Whether he was unnerved or not, he immediately addressed #OscarsSoWhite and the Academy’s decision to include films with black members such as Creed, Concussion, Straight Out of Compton and Beasts of No Nation, none of which received nominations, in its opening segment. Chris Rock: five of his best moments As host he settled into the role and addressed the serious issues surrounding the Oscars diversity furore, while also making fun of the outrage itself. He made the audience squirm by saying that even the liberal film community wouldn’t give actors of colour jobs (“They don’t hire black people. And they’re the nicest white people on earth”), and he offered his own flippant solution to the problem: create black categories. Rock said he had considered quitting the role of host but decided against it because he “didn’t want to lose another role to Kevin Hart”.It’s the second time Rock has hosted the awards show. He first took charge in 2005 and received mixed reviews. On the night, Sean Penn chastised him for his taunting of Jude Law; other targets included Nicole Kidman and then president George W Bush.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Whoopi Goldberg addresses the #OscarsSoWhite boycottThis year there were barbs aimed at Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith who did choose to avoid the ceremony. Rock said: “Jada boycotting is like me boycotting Rihanna’s panties … I wasn’t invited.” Following up on the Pinkett Smith comment, he said it was unfair that some people weren’t nominated, but that it was also unfair that Will Smith received $20m for 1999’s steampunk flop Wild Wild West.Rock called on cameos to further pick at the issue of diversity. In a segment about the difficulty that black actors have in securing roles, Whoopi Goldberg appeared as an aggrieved caretaker in Joy; SNL’s Leslie Jones replaced the bear in The Revenant; Tracy Morgan took the role of Eddie Redmayne in The Danish Girl, and Rock himself was left stranded in The Martian. One moment that failed to land saw him bring out Clueless star turned Fox host, Stacey Dash – who had been criticised for saying there shouldn’t be Black History Month – and introduced her as the head of the academy’s new diversity outreach programme.There were further sprinklings of #OscarsSoWhite references throughout the ceremony, such as when the broadcast came back after an ad break (“We’re black!”) and when Rock introduced Michael B Jordan as the “should-have-been-nominated Michael B Jordan”.But throughout Rock seemed to make a conscious effort to move the conversation elsewhere, seemingly taking random tangents – he brought his daughters out at one point to sell girl scout cookies (they raised $65,243). In his opening monologue he also referenced the police shootings in the US: “This year in the In Memoriam package, it’s just going to be black people who were shot by the cops on the way to the movies.”Rock made his personal stance on diversity in the film industry known in December 2014. In an essay for the Hollywood Reporter, written while promoting Top Five, Rock wrote: “It’s a white industry. Just as the NBA is a black industry. I’m not even saying it’s a bad thing. It just is. And the black people they do hire tend to be the same person.”Mark Rylance: 'Black actors are in a stronger position now thanks to Chris Rock' In a wide-ranging and candid interview with New York magazine, he talked about the fact that casting decisions always come down to one factor: money. He said: “I never take any of it personally. It’s all money, especially when you’re talking about playing a lead of anything … as far as being a leading man, there’s a printout, and there’s how much the movie made here, here and here. How do you do in Budapest? How do you do in Calgary? Germany? And they make the decision.”There was the same rationalising in his monologue, as he highlighted the fact that this is far from the only year there have been no actors of colour nominated for the acting awards, before saying in the 60s people didn’t protest because “we had real things to protest at the time. We were too busy being raped and lynched to care about who won best cinematography.” But he also used that no-nonsense approach to declare that, of course, “Hollywood is racist”.A stand-out moment was when he harked back to his 2005 performance by including a man-in-the-street section in which he conducted vox pops with Compton residents who gave their frank and often acerbic assessments of Hollywood.For Rock, who had been announced as host before the diversity conversation erupted, it was a balancing act of acknowledging that this year was different, but not letting it become the only thing he could take aim at. That meant pushing the audience’s buttons, repeatedly joking about how Kevin Hart is one of the few regularly employed black actors and mocking Will Smith just as much as the lack of diversity in the acting categories. Ultimately, it was the skits – especially the cameos and the man-in-the-street segments – that cut through and got to the heart of the #OscarsSoWhite outcry and why it mattered so much to so many people and why its predictability and reaction was, at times, funny.