The Brit Awards 20168pm, ITVAnother year, another Brit awards – and, as ever, so many questions. Will James Bay buy a new hat for the occasion? Will Aphex Twin pip him to the post in the British male solo artist category? On what grounds has Amy Winehouse secured a nomination? And who will get drunk and make an exhibition of themselves? Sadly, we can already surmise that the answer to the last question is probably no one – the Brits feel rather tame these days, so expect the David Bowie tribute to prompt a certain wistfulness. Phil HarrisonThe Prosecutors: Real Crime and Punishment9pm, BBC4Police work has been well documented on TV, but little has been seen of the next link in the chain of justice until now. This series offers a look at the Crown Prosecution Service – and a nondescript office that belies the importance of the work carried out within. A gang of cashpoint-clobbering criminals pose problems getting a definitive ID, but it’s the case of a child’s death due to a dangerous driver that really highlights the service’s role. Mark Gibbings-JonesKeeping Up with the Khans10pm, Channel 4The series following life in Page Hall, Sheffield concludes by focusing on white working-class residents, who once made up the majority of the population. Then, in the 1960s and 1970s, migrants from Kashmir arrived, followed, in the past five years, by Roma from Slovakia. The latter have been accused of antisocial behaviour, which sparks former environmental campaigner Bug (“You shouldn’t generalise about people”) into organising a litter pickup. Only three volunteers turn up, all Slovakian. Jonathan WrightPerson of Interest10pm, Channel 5George Orwell meets The A-Team in this procedural predicated on a CCTV-scanning computer that pre-empts major crimes in New York. Tonight’s double bill kicks off season four, with Reese, Finch and Shaw in hiding after being targeted by a rival all-seeing AI called Samaritan. But it’s not too long before they’re back on the beat, helping out an Egyptian expat and a maths prodigy. As Reese, Jim Caviezel – doing his best Clint Eastwood – is almost distractingly deadpan. Graeme VirtueInside Buckingham Palace9pm, Channel 5The Queen has three residences, but it’s Buckingham Palace (rather than Sandringham or Balmoral) that enjoys the largest place in the popular imagination. While there’s interest in knowing something of the practicalities of how the royal family lives behind the gates, there’s more fun to be had in perpetuating the mystery: all hidden doors and gilded splendour. This documentary series will address both angles, plus more theoretical questions: what will happen to the structure when Charles ascends to the throne? John RobinsonGrossbusters9pm, MTVTwo episodes of the bedroom makeover show for the terminally untidy and dangerously unhygienic. In tonight’s first episode, Evan meets a sun-shunning shutaway whose room doubles as a holiday camp for cockroaches. Charmingly, the second episode features a homeowner who saves money on tissues by smearing mucus on their walls. In short, an omnibus perhaps best viewed from behind a protective mask. Ew, you gonna call? MGJOccupied9pm, Sky ArtsThis series – imagining a scenario in which an eco-conscious Norway finds itself at loggerheads with the rest of the world, and Russia in particular – may seem a touch explosive and far-fetched. However, beneath its fast-moving dramatic currents lurks the uneasy feeling that this is indeed how our global administrators would behave if push came to shove. Tonight, Jesper Berg experiences the hollow feeling of election victory, with the Russians staying put, while Hans Martin receives an intriguing offer. David StubbsFilm choicesMen in Black (Barry Sonnenfeld, 1997) 9pm, Film4Sonnenfeld’s very hip, very funny sci-fi spoof in which the world is full of aliens living incognito and the Men in Black are interstellar immigration officers. It’s their reactions to the dazzling array of space beasts that give the film its comic buzz: Tommy Lee Jones deadpan and seen-it-all-before; Will Smith wide-eyed and incredulous. Paul HowlettFunny Games (Michael Haneke, 1997) 10pm, Sky ArtsPeter and Paul seem such polite fellows when they turn up at a lakeside holiday home. But they are wearing surgical gloves, and the atmosphere shifts swiftly from oddly menacing to nightmarish. Haneke’s intentions seem deadly serious: a cool and calculated discourse on our voyeuristic fascination with screen violence. PHToday’s best live sportThe Dubai Duty Free Tennis ChampionshipsCoverage from the Aviation Club in Dubai. 10am, Sky Sports 3Biathlon: the European ChampionshipsFeaturing the single mixed relay event. 9.45am, Eurosport 1Champions League football: PSV Eindhoven v Atletico MadridAction from the last 16. 7pm, BT Sport 2NBA: Chicago Bulls v Washington WizardsEastern Conference basketball from United Centre. 1am (Thursday), BT Sport 1