1 Loyle CarnerIntrospection is key to the south London rapper’s sound, with the downbeat delivery of his debut album Yesterday’s Gone seemingly reflective of Britain’s current gloom. But his live shows are far from moody affairs, with the young showman oozing charisma. Liquid Room, Edinburgh, Saturday 4 February; Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne, Sunday 5 February; Manchester Academy, Thursday 9 February; touring to Saturday 18 February2 Two Door Cinema ClubNorthern Ireland’s foremost electro-indie popsters bring their massive UK tour to a jangly close this week, culminating with two huge Ally Pally shows. While their tunes do sound increasingly Radio 1-focused, you can’t fault their retro-tinged enthusiasm. Barrowland Ballroom, Glasgow, Saturday 4 February; O2 Guildhall, Southampton, Monday 6 February; O2 Academy, Bristol, Tuesday 7 February; Alexandra Palace, N22, Thursday 9 February and Friday 10 February3 Raye Raye’s rise to fame may sound familiar: the 18-year-old from Croydon went to the Brit school and was tipped on the BBC Sound of 2017 list. So far, so every-other-next-big-thing. But she’s far from a follower: the artist AKA Rachel Keen dropped out of the Brit because it made her feel “confined”, and has since crafted a sound that absorbs pop, soul and woozy electronica. XOYO, EC2, Thursday 9 February 4 DrakeThe biggest UK tour of the year so far rolls into its second week and Drake still hasn’t left London, the lazy get. Indeed, he still has a couple of dates to complete at the O2 before heading to Leeds. Expect enormo crowds in both cities, bouncing to his wild party anthems about feeling desolate and alone in hotel rooms. O2 Arena, SE10, Saturday 4 February and Sunday 5 February; First Direct Arena, Leeds, Wednesday 8 February and Thursday 9 February; touring to Thursday 23 March5 INHEAVENThey may style up their name in bold capitals, but this south London four-piece aren’t all about cranking up the volume dial; instead they mix grungy tendencies with shoegaze aesthetics and guitars that wobble in and out of tune. Just heavenly. The Engine Shed, Lincoln, Wednesday 8 February; Wolves Civic, Wolverhampton, Thursday 9 February; The Sugarmill, Stoke-on-Trent, Friday 10 February; touring to Tuesday Saturday 4 April