Remember the first time you watched Star Wars, before you knew that Luke Skywalker was definitely going to blow up the Death Star? When there was still a hint of a sniff of a chance that the Rebels might lose the battle, that Luke might never develop his full range of Force powers, or that Darth Vader might pick him off like any one of the dozens of other X-Wing pilots who went spinning off to a fiery death?That’s how I feel about Rogue One right now. The trailers so far have shown us plenty of shiny stuff, from Darth Vader’s return to new versions of classic Star Wars staples such as stormtroopers and At-At walkers. But we’re still in that final run with Luke, wondering if he’s going to make it to the end of the canyon and save the galaxy from the world-killing Imperial menace. We want to believe everything’s going to be OK, but we’re just not sure.Here are five reasons why the trailers so far, including the new one that hit the web today, have left us worrying that Rogue One might be a dud. 1. Spectacularly obvious dialogueWhen does bad dialogue become great dialogue? When it’s delivered by a screen legend like Harrison Ford, and has been seared into childhood memories with all the heat and intensity of a Jedi lightsaber cutting through wampa flesh. “It’s not my fault” … “I have a bad feeling about this” … “Never tell me the odds” … All cheap, throwaway lines in isolation, but when uttered by Han Solo in the midst of the greatest frickin’ space saga of all time, suddenly worth their weight in old Corellian gold.When is bad dialogue simply bad dialogue? When a screenwriter has just borrowed the movie’s main theme and written it into the script at every available opportunity. In the first trailer for Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, released in April, Felicity Jones’s Jyn Erso gave us the immortal line: “This is a rebellion isn’t it? I rebel.” In the latest trailer, she asks her band of anti-Imperial space grunts: “You’re all rebels aren’t you?” As famously cheesy as the scripts of the original trilogy were, Han, Leia and Luke at least refrained from constant self-referential commentary. In Rogue One, it appears to have been shoehorned in every time the story requires a rousing speech about overcoming impossible odds. Though I must admit, I do rather like the line about taking the next chance ... and the next.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 2. They’ve given too much awayUntil now, the film-makers had done a reasonable job of stirring up excitement without revealing the entire plot of Rogue One. But the latest trailer, when taken together with previous promos, appears to reveal the following:1. That Erso was taken from her father as a child and has been on the run from the Empire ever since.2. That her dad, Galen Erso (Mads Mikkelsen), helped build the first Death Star, in part because he hoped to keep her safe.3. That Erso has been recruited by the Rebel Alliance to reconnect with her father, and presumably convince him to hand over those rather useful blueprints revealing the superweapon’s vulnerability to X-wing fire. That pretty much looks to be the whole story, especially as we already know that the Rebels succeed in their mission. But fingers crossed Edwards and his team have a little more up their sleeves. Perhaps there’s a giant twist, and we will find out Mon Mothma is dating Chewbacca’s perverted dad Itchy from the Star Wars Holiday Special.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Felicity Jones as Jyn Erso, with Diego Luna as Cassian Andor. Photograph: Allstar/Lucasfilm3. The absence of the Jedi and the ForceYou thought this was a Star Wars movie, with Jedi, lightsabers, telekinesis and freaky magical lightning? Nope, the Jedi are nowhere to be seen. The Jedi are in fact so absent that even statues of them have been symbolically buried beneath the sand in the new trailer for Rogue One, clasping their lightsabers feebly in a deserty purgatory. Every now and again in these trailers, Chirrut Îmwe (Donnie Yen) pops up to remind us what we have lost. “A ha!” he seems to be saying. “This is a Star Wars movie, so the Force is bound to be around here somewhere. It’s sure to turn up in a minute. And if not, there’s no need to panic, because I’ll be talking about Jedi and the Force loads, even if you never actually get to see any.”This seems less than fun. But maybe Darth Vader will Force-choke an Imperial general or two to cheer us up.4. The overuse of other Star Wars tropes to compensateSo, no Jedi then. But hey, look ... there are aerial X-wing and Tie-fighter battles, and once again everyone discusses their plans around a big fancy round table in Rebel central command. There’s a hologram, and even a jump to light space. Mon Mothma is back! And she looks just like she did in Return of the Jedi. There are even rumours Jimmy Smits is set to return as Bail Organa from the prequels, though the less we say about that the better ...       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The stormtroopers are back. Photograph: Allstar/Lucasfilm5. The Suicide Squad-style ensembleThe original Star Wars movies function so well because they rarely divert from the three core heroes: Luke, Leia and Han. But in Rogue One, there seem to be an awful lot of hangers on, about whom we still don’t know very much. Maybe Riz Ahmed’s Bodhi Rook and Diego Luna’s Cassian Andor will turn out to be the Poe Dameron and Lando Calrissian of the new film, iconic characters whose impact was not limited by their minimal screen time. Or maybe they’ll be Star Wars’ answer to Suicide Squad’s underwritten Killer Croc and Katana. The jury also remains out on Yen’s Îmwe and Jiang Wen’s Baze Malbus: are they vital members of the team, or has Disney added two famous Chinese actors to the crew in an attempt to improve on The Force Awakens’ relatively dismal returns at the world’s second largest box office? It wouldn’t be the first time.