Let battle commence: swishing crinolines against sleek cocktail gowns, herbaceous borders against snowy Alpine peaks, gun battles against venomous gossip over the tea tables. The struggle between BBC and ITV for the dozy loyalty of Sunday night viewers looks set to break out again this weekend. .As is traditional, the channels have programmed their most extravagant drama offerings directly against each other, with ITV1’s new offering from the Downton Abbey creator, Julian Fellowes, Doctor Thorne, doing battle in the 9pm slot against BBC1’s well-received adaptation of John le Carré’s spy thriller The Night Manager. Both have a powerful secret weapon – an actor of immense range, subtlety and charisma. Unfortunately it’s the same actor. Tom Hollander, already starring as the sinisterly witty sidekick in The Night Manager, will be seen for the first time on Sunday as the eponymous Dr Thorne.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hollander also stars in The Night Manager alongside Tom Hiddleston. Photograph: BBC/The Ink Factory/Des WillieITV will hope Fellowes’ adaptation of Anthony Trollope’s novel – with its plot of romance across the class gulf, and the precariously wealthy needing to shore up their fortunes through judicious marriages –fills the gap left by the final slamming of the green baize door on Downton Abbey.Like many admirers of Trollope’s work, Hollander admitted he had not read the book, and did not even when he got the part, which he believes will reveal him in a new light. “I’ve not played this straight, heroic, leading man type before,” he said in an recent interview. “I’ve played a lead but often in a comic, undercut way, or something quirky like with In the Loop or Rev; so this victorious, virtuous hero is a departure for me.”The first episodes of The Night Manager have drawn an audience of more than 6 million viewers.  The mesmerising central performance by Tom Hiddleston as Jonathan Pine has won rave reviews, with fans demanding the actor be cast as the next James Bond when Daniel Craig hangs up his Speedos. (Apart from those demanding that his co-star Olivia Colman – star of that other drama hit for ITV, Broadchurch – become the next Bond). A flurry of tweets described his role as an 007 audition.That might be trickier to contrive for Hollander, given that his character is a buttoned-up country doctor.Night Manager director Susanne Bier: 'I'm always wary of fantastic-looking actors' But while Trollope’s cosy Barsetshire setting might struggle to compete with the Night Manager’s cosmopolitan glamour of lakeside castles and mountain-top luxury hotels, it will certainly give a starring role to one of the most spectacular and best preserved Victorian mansions in the country. Tyntesfield near Bristol, now owned by the National Trust, may be preparing itself for a flock of visitors, following the influx of tourists at Highclere Castle, the real-life Downton Abbey.The apparently remote and bleak coastal cottage in which Pine hid from the world while agonising over what to do next – alone save the inevitable glamorous woman who made her way down the steep track and into his bed – is in reality a four-bedroom, 15th-century holiday rental on the privately owned Hartland Abbey estate in Devon, which is reporting heavy bookings. It was previously seen in the 2007 BBC adaptation of Sense and Sensibility, which starred Downton’s Dan Stevens.