It’s difficult to be outwardly proud of English traditional culture, partly for fear of being called racist or a flag-waver. English folk music is sometimes seen as the poorer cousin of the rest of the British Isles. It’s not part of England’s mainstream culture in the way its Scottish, Irish and Welsh traditional music counterparts are. It’s not something you are taught to value. Better that you know all the names of kings and queens, the people who rule you. Some folk musicians we know are not especially proud to be English or to be performing English folk music, and Brexit has compounded that. But to us, now is the very time when we need to knuckle down with a quiet pride in the surviving traditions. English folk music is something to be celebrated and cherished.Being new to the English folk scene, we decided a good way of exploring it would be to record some English folk musicians on their own turf, asking them to interpret the two words “from here”. We asked them to respond to a geographical location that resonates with them, or that was a starting point in their musical journey, or simply to record a song that sums up who they are and where they are from. We went to their homes and recorded them in their kitchens and living rooms and captured raw and immediate performances.What our field recording trip around the country revealed to us was how diverse the notion of Englishness and perceived authenticity in traditional music is. It told us more about how these people relate to their own culture, and their own relationship with it, than we ever thought it would.Jon Boden chose a traditional drinking song, Fathom the Bowl, that he learned as a teenager. It’s the story of a working man who hates his wife, who laments the loss of his father at sea, but doesn’t actually seem to care, because life is shit – so let’s keep drinking. As Jon says, this isn’t a character you can easily sympathise with. He drinks to lose himself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stick In The Wheel live in London, 2016. Photograph: Maria Jefferis/RedfernsBut this kind of nihilism – engendered by years of doing the empire’s dirty work – makes people drink to excess. It’s the same feeling of powerlessness that makes them end up voting for an issue, person or party that they know deep down is wrong, but they do it because they don’t care if it all burns down because, well, we’ve all got blood on our hands.In English folk music, the message of protest is often intrinsic or hidden. It has to be quietly subversive because our enemies are among us: our rulers and bosses. English folk musician Chris Wood reminded us of Martin Carthy’s observation of how the Irish and Scottish have a sort of rebel music that is essentially about and against us, the English, but that the English working class is almost being completely squashed. A folk opera about mass migration? Let the Young'uns transport you The act of living can be a protest in itself, that we won’t quit or become invisible.Woven into the very fabric of our collective history is a seething resentment of the ways we have been treated for hundreds of years. Yet much of it is coded, in metaphors or symbolism. Nicola Kearey sings Georgie – in which a woman begs for her husband’s life to be spared. His crime is poaching the Lord Judge’s deer – a poor man’s crime for which the penalty is his life. A lower-class man’s life was worth less than one of the Lord Judge’s animals. The song doesn’t need to explicitly spell out the injustice, but you can be sure as hell that people would have understood this.English identity is complex and distinct from its neighbours – its working people were oppressed for far longer. Even with the empire and all its evils, remember that we practised them on our own first, and we carry the weight of that in our collective memories every day. When you come here you become a part of that, and you suffer like the rest of us.From Here: English Folk Field Recordings review – 17 intimate performances Just a Note/Wild Wild Whiskey – chosen by Peta Webb and Ken Hall – documents the experience of the Irish coming to England to work on the roads in the mid-20th century. It’s not only in recent years that England has been a place of economic migration. These men and women came here to earn a living and endured terrible hardships: many were driven to find solace in drink, and their lives spiralled further into ruin. Their singing of those songs is a kind of meta-narrative of English culture, bringing these themes into existence, expressing the inexpressible.The current climate of this country seems to us an opportunity for us all to look hard at ourselves and to try to understand why people think and act as they do. Condemnation only leads to further division and unrest. Unity only comes from understanding our shared history and finding empathy with all cultures. Pride in your heritage should not come at the expense of others. But this is what we are sold. We think that, if you take time to look into our traditional music, you will see that we have always been under the same pressures, as much then as now, and understand that most of us are facing this struggle on a daily basis. You never know – it might stop us all being such dicks to each other.From Here: English Folk Field Recordings is released on 17 March. Stick in the Wheel perform at Cafe Oto, London, on 18 and 19 March.