Given that Grégory Fitoussi has now played major roles in two British shows, Mr Selfridge and Beowulf, has English dialogue become natural for the 40-year-old Parisian? “I wouldn’t say that,” he says with an apologetic grimace. “You’re going to figure out in this interview how difficult it is for me. Even though I’ve done it for years now, I have to work hard to be understood.”What are the toughest English sounds? “Oh, there are so many, Sir! I remember one that I really had trouble to say on Mr Selfridge. It was mouth.” Mouth? “No, like a flame to a mouth?” Ah, moth? “Yes. Everyone was trying to help me on set: ‘Open your mouth! Say it like this!’ And so on. But it’s so different from French. We talk buh-buh-buh-buh, all on the same level. There’s no stretching or anything. As a French actor, you have to learn to play with the English sounds.” Three seasons on Mr Selfridge proved a shop window for more English-language work, including a major part in NBC’s conspiracy thriller American Odyssey, which introduced Fitoussi to the dialogue coach Peggy Hall. Recently, they faced their biggest challenge with an American role in a movie, Hostile, that was filming in Paris. Hall banned him from speaking French to anyone during the shoot. So he had to ignore his friends and family? “Yeah! Which is good sometimes.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mr Selfridge proved a shop window for more English-language work … Fittousi as Henri. Photograph: ITVAnother rule was that he mustn’t mentally translate English lines before saying them: “I’ve learned not to. I realised that you have to lose the way you think in French to be able to speak in English. If you try to translate, it doesn’t work.”Fitoussi also stars in Spin and Spiral, two hit shows from his home country, so is unusually well placed to compare the different ways of working in the French, British and American industries. When he first worked outside France, he was stunned there was no red wine on the table at lunchtime in the catering truck.“When I mention this to actors in England or America, they say: ‘Really!’” he laughs. “But also, on Mr Selfridge, everything was much more organised. And on American Odyssey, the main difference was the hours. I did a day of 18 hours, and it was 14 to 16 hours, six days a week, which is not even legal in France.” Spin – it's the West Wing, with added sex One reason he has been able to be so busy is that Spin – voted by many as the second best political TV drama ever, after The West Wing – has had to space out its series, for various logistical reasons. Season two was entirely rewritten because Nathalie Baye, who was due to be elected president on screen, suddenly left the cast. Then the scripts for the third run were changed after the terrorist attacks at the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and the Bataclan theatre came eerily close to scenes imagined by the screenwriters. Even after the rewrites, the opening moments of an assassin on a motorbike feel like a flashback to news headlines.“I know!” agrees Fitoussi. “It was weird. When I see that first scene on screen, I feel uncomfortable. Because it is so close to reality.” Central to the Spin trilogy is the competition between Fitoussi’s Ludovic Desmeuve and Simon Kapita, played by Bruno Wolkowitch. The men, former friends, are now spin doctors working for rival Presidential candidates, fighting viciously over the same votes and women. Fitoussi already had experience of the electoral war room, having played Laurent Solly, President Sarkozy’s image manipulator, in The Conquest. Before filming Spin, he talked again to Solly, and met other political press aides, including one who confided that he had once paid actors to pretend to be a crowd of supporters waiting to greet an unpopular candidate.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I feel uncomfortable watching because it is so close to reality’ … Spin. Photograph: GSN Press/Channel 4“I met one guy who was such a cliche, so self-confident. But the thing I took away was that he was having fun: for him, politics was such a game.”While preparing to play assistant prosecutor Pierre Clément in Spiral, Fitoussi hung round the Palais de Justice, watching all the lawyers: “Luckily, I had never done anything that brought me to the courts, so I had to go there. What I love about acting is the what-if: suppose I’d become a lawyer, a businessman, a politician. But I don’t think you can just turn up on set and pretend. It’s your duty to go and find out what it’s really like.”Fitoussi’s own spin on the likely result of this year’s real French presidential election is cagey. “Let me just say I hope it’s not going to be certain persons.” National Front leader Marine Le Pen? “Yeah. The far right is the threat.” Which is partly what series three of Spin is about? “Yes. If it is her, the consequences could be very serious. I’m scared. Because we do not seem to be going forwards, we seem to be going backwards.”Unusually for a successful actor, Fitoussi never went to drama school. Aged 20, working in a “shitty job selling T-shirts on a market stall”, he made friends with some actors. “One told me to go for an audition for a TV show, as it would be fun, and I’d make money. And I got the job.”As Benjamin in Sous le Soleil, a soap opera about the “young in the sun” in St Tropez, Fitoussi became a teenage pinup. But coming to the conclusion “that I was so bad, but also that I loved acting”, he asked to be written out and went to theatre classes. His acting hero has always been Gérard Depardieu, which may surprise some as the only role for which they could plausibly both be in contention is Oscar Wilde’s Dorian Gray: Depardieu as the rotting picture in the attic and Fitoussi the youthful smoothie in society.The contrast, though, is what attracts Fittousi to him: “It’s not about the way he looks, but where he can go with a role. Actors can become too precious about how they look: film that side, not that side. I get told about being pretty and handsome, so I try to go for roles far from that. Because I want to be different each time.” Fitoussi hopes those different performances will continue to span French, English and American roles, and has his eye on a particular UK show: “Peaky Blinders! I think it’s amazing and I would love to be in it!”Spin returns on More 4 at 9pm on 14 April