‘We’re all just people’The season finale, more than anything, feels like a sequel to the Preacher pilot, with Sam Catlin back behind the camera. This is a good thing, but also makes things feel a little abrupt. It starts with a sleepy montage of Annville waking up, set to Willie Nelson’s Time of the Preacher.There’s a strong sense of urgency here that’s been missing from the past few episodes: Jesse is running from the cops (literally, in one notable shot), the entire town appears to be buzzing about it (there’s graffiti and signs ordering Jesse to run, and asking about the presence of God), and Annville genuinely feels like it’s experiencing its end of days – more on that in a minute. So much has changed that it feels like there’s a whole episode we haven’t seen. Cassidy is in jail, apparently nabbed at the whorehouse because of his association with Jesse. (A sequence I would have loved to see.) Sheriff Root puts two and two together, using Cassidy’s penchant for shade and long arrest record (why doesn’t he just use different names?) to suss out that he’s a vampire. The sheriff spends the night shooting him in an effort to find his son.Also, has Donnie Schenk found mercy? Jesse has been staying with the Schenks apparently, because Donnie letting Jesse live proved to be a spiritual awakening. This is a good idea: Jesse finally saved someone not by using his power, but simply by being a good person. But it also feels like a scene we really needed to see. While the Schenks read Good Housekeeping and Gorillas in the Mist, Jesse and Tulip take it outside. Ruth Negga does a delightful impersonation of Dominic Cooper’s gruffness, and she leads Jesse flirtatiously by the belt buckle – only to show him that Carlos is, of course, in the trunk.‘We’re all just people’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kiss, Kiss, Bang, Bang: W Earl Brown as Hugo Root. Photograph: Lewis Jacobs/Sony Pictures TelevisionCarlos is played by the great Desmin Borges of You’re the Worst. It turns out the big incident in Dallas is a lot smaller in scope than we’d been led to believe: tired of being stepped on and mocked by the admittedly obnoxiously in love Jesse and Tulip, Carlos lets a security guard go during a bank robbery, forcing Jesse to kill the guard and causing Tulip to lose her baby in the process. It’s a strange development. Miscarriages are already an overused plot device on TV, and the baby is in this case just a convenient reason why Tulip and Jesse hate Carlos so much.Still, the final confrontation – in which Jesse first decides to kill Carlos out of despair and is then turned back by Tulip, who was never going to kill him anyway – is really sweet and fun. (It’s especially fun to watch couched in an argument over how messy the car would get if Jesse shot Carlos in different places.) This is a much better look for the show, and its central couple. By the time the camera pulls in on Jesse and Tulip preparing to mercilessly beat Carlos, firmly together in both goodness and mild sadism, their relationship has become the most important thing on the show.‘You are all saved’The next morning, Betsy Schenk appears to rat Jesse out to the cops, but it turns out that she and Donnie snuck him and Tulip to the church in the trunk, where she helps him set up the angel phone. All of this camaraderie is fun, and pleasant in the way that, say, an Oceans movie is, but it mostly serves to remind us that we’re not going to be spending much more time with these characters.Finally, the last Sunday service. (I assume there won’t be many of these in the next season.) It’s cool to see the whole town assembled, maybe even more so than the last service – it feels like something the whole season has been building to. Of course, the phone doesn’t work at first. But then, God shows up in the video conference who is an old dude with a booming voice sitting on throne, surrounded by bright light. (Cue the unfazed Tulip: “Told you he was a white guy.”)The video-conferencing God deigns to answer a few of the town’s questions, but everything he says is terrible, a series of religious cliches about divine authority and the “plan” that sends everyone into a tizzy. (It’s crazier than the time Cassidy drank a bunch of Red Bull and saw Justin Bieber.) Quincannon even confronts God about his family, who he is assured are safely in heaven. But when Jesse realizes that this “God” doesn’t know about Genesis, he sees the truth, and the foundation of the comic: God is missing. It turns out to just have been an angel (or something), stalling to fill the void on high. This knowledge sends the town into a riot, culminating in a fuzzed-out shot of Quincannon snapping off a crucifix.‘Nothing’s changed’Preacher’s first season concludes largely on a montage set to Blind Melon’s No Rain, which seems about right. Far from saved, Annville is in ruins – Emily tells her kids that they never needed God in the first place, but no one else seems to believe that. Death overtakes the town and it becomes a place that could inspire a thousand Murder Ballads: both of the mascots hang themselves on the scalp tree. The children murder Linus the creepy bus driver. Mrs Loach smothers her comatose daughter. There’s even a last Tom Cruise gag, with a TV showing his ashes being shot into space. Root stares into the distance, haunted (W Earl Brown has done really excellent work in these past few episodes.) And Quincannon cradles a baby made out of meat, stuffed into a parka.In the chaos, the Quincannon power plant, which we’ve seen a few times over the course of the season, spews methane all over Annville and the town explodes. There’s no way the season wasn’t going to end with a massacre, which makes it a lot harder to invest in all of the characters we’ve been told to care about for the past 10 episodes. I suspect Quincannon will be back in some form, but will Emily? Donnie? Sheriff Root? As Cas says, what’s the bloody point?At least our core trio is out of town, plopped down at a diner where Jesse lays out his plan: find God. This plan will, it seems, involve a road trip, lots of sin, and shooting a second season that sounds way more fun than this one. Preacher was always going to get to this point, which made a lot of this first season feel like a waiting game. It’s been a bit of a slog, but there have been enough genuinely fun, exciting sequences that Jesse, Tulip and Cassidy putting on shades and punching the gas feels like it’s been worth the wait. Let’s hope that season two delivers on the promise of this moment. Oh, also, the Saint (Cowboy) shows up in Annville, and starts his hunt for Jesse in earnest. This should be interesting.Notes from the nave      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   RIP, Annville? Photograph: Lewis Jacobs/Sony Pictures TelevisionCassidy, to Sheriff Root: “I’m not an asshole, I’m the asshole.”Also, he finally says “arseface” and Sheriff Root empties a round into him. (Related: Jesse still sees a hallucinatory version of Eugene – possibly God? – which is good, because Ian Colletti really needs to remain in this cast.)Clive asking, “Can I get my dick back on?” Everyone’s raucous, borderline wholesome laughter at this inquiry is hilarious.Cassidy still hates the end of The Big Lebowski.Obligatory Johnny Cash songFinally, another one and boy, is it appropriate.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Worst job in TexasWhoever had to clean up after Cassidy bleeding out in a cell all night, then probably getting vaporized in the explosion. Bummer.Scripture of the weekRevelation 18:13, graffitied on a wall in Annville. The passage, about the fall of Babylon, reads: “Cargoes of cinnamon and spice, of incense, myrrh and frankincense, of wine and olive oil, of fine flour and wheat; cattle and sheep; horses and carriages; and human beings sold as slaves.” I’m not totally sure what that means (if it’s supposed to mean anything), but I’m going to optimistically hope it means that next season is going to be batshit crazy.