It’s been almost two decades since Notting Hill became flooded with foreign tourists who do nothing but stand around in Notting Hill purely because someone once made a film called Notting Hill. And now, finally, someone has decided to send them somewhere else.In June, a film called Hampstead will be released. Like Notting Hill, Hampstead is a geographically specific romcom. Like Notting Hill, it is likely to send visitors into a frenzy. And, like Notting Hill, it’s probably going to annoy the locals quite a lot. But does Hampstead really have what it takes to become the new Notting Hill? Let’s find out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Meet Diane Keaton, Hampstead’s mandatory American. Today is Diane Keaton’s birthday. It is also the day of her epiphany. Diane Keaton doesn’t have any friends, she realises. She just has a collection of middle-aged white people who look as if they’ve just spent their appearance fees from a Wiltshire Farm Foods advert on tickets for a cruise on board the HMS Laura Ashley. She also realises that these people love ukulele orchestras. Diane Keaton is horrified. Tourism potential: 1/10. Clearly, nobody on Earth would want to visit anywhere containing people like this.The trailer also reveals that Diane Keaton’s husband is dead, and that he cheated on her before he died, and that she now often throws shoes at his gravestone as punishment. Tourism potential: 8/10, although locals might object to the coachloads of tourists who will soon turn up three times a day to deface graves with footwear in tribute.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In fact, let’s allow the trailer to tell us the plot. “Emily’s life is complicated, but a fresh outlook could change everything,” it says, before adding: “Discover love.” Tourism potential: 5/10. Because, who knows, maybe foreign tourists go crazy for hackneyed, fortune cookie-style platitudes expressed via genuinely distressing fonts.But before we get into how Diane Keaton finds her fresh outlook that changes everything, here’s a quick shot of her visually summing up her predicament. Tourism potential: 10/10. It’s easy to see visitors flocking to Hampstead in their millions just to re-enact the famous scene where Keaton, who is better than this, did a passable impersonation of Dan Aykroyd being orally serviced by a ghost two thirds of the way through Ghostbusters.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Right, so, this is Keaton’s fresh outlook. It’s Brendan Gleeson, playing whichever of the Hairy Bikers it is who hasn’t been on Strictly yet. He’s a primitive man who lives in a shack on Hampstead Heath, which is under threat of demolition by an evil property magnate. Tourism potential: 9/10, because if this shack does get demolished then at least visitors will have somewhere nice to stay.Luckily, Keaton and Gleeson hit it off by bonding sparkily over a misbehaving water-based creature. Tourism potential: 7/10. I can just see the signs now: “COME TO HAMPSTEAD, HOME OF THAT FILM WHERE DIANE KEATON TRIED TO MIMIC THE LOBSTER SCENE FROM ANNIE HALL BUT DIDN’T REALLY PULL IT OFF!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Anyway, there’s a court case to see whether Gleeson can keep his shack and blah blah blah. Meanwhile, the trailer gives us plenty of this film’s real selling point: lots and of shots of lovely Hampstead Heath looking lovely in the sunshine. Tourism potential: 10/10. People of north-west London, consider yourselves screwed.