Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by reader Marco den Ouden (who runs the Marconium website) from your suggestions after last week’s callout.  about how our weekly readers recommend series works at the end of the piece.Gases are vital to life on Earth. And the importance of oxygen to human life is celebrated in Jean-Michel Jarre’s monumental 1977 hit Oxygène Part II, which starts us off this week. From the lungs to the heart, some artists have compared oxygen to love – and vice versa. Love is Like Oxygen, sing glam-rock group the Sweet. When the drug culture evolved in the 1960s, Quicksilver Messenger Service suggested that you didn’t need drugs. All you needed was a hit of Fresh Air. Or was “fresh air” a euphemism for drugs?    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube list.Not surprisingly, people are concerned when the quality of our life-giving air is threatened. When chlorofluorocarbons threatened the ozone layer, Warren Zevon thought he was seeing the world Run Straight Down, but fortunately the threat of CFCs has been largely controlled since then. Oxygen is not the only useful gas in human life, of course. One of the most common is neon, a gas that conducts electricity and so has become a staple in the lighting industry. Indeed, locations such as New York City’s Times Square and Tokyo’s Shibuya Center Gai are celebr ated for their colourful neon signs. The Box Tops sing of this Neon Rainbow. And with the preponderance of water on the planet, water vapour in the form of clouds and steam play an important role. Indeed, the short-lived 70s band the Id rhapsodised on steam in Boil the Kettle, Mother, an odd little retro number reminiscent of the some of the grungier sounds of the 60s – groups such as the Count Five, with guitar breaks a bit like early Kinks.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Le Pétomane Photograph: YouTubeIn the City of God, Saint Augustine says, “there are individuals who can make musical notes issue from the rear of their anatomy, so that you would think they were singing.” One so blessed was French vaudevillian Joseph Pujol, who became a headliner at the Moulin Rouge under the stage name Le Pétomane. His well-tempered derriere was a bigger draw than the Divine Sarah Bernhardt, pulling in as much as 20,000 francs a show. Punk band Splodgenessabounds may have been inspired by the Frenchman when they recorded Michael Booth’s Talking Bum! But not all gases are beneficial or benign. Regina Spektor sings about suicide on Carbon Monoxide. The first world war introduced the horrors of mustard gas, and chemical weapons have since been banned by many nations. The Destructors graphically describe the effects on their Nerve Gas, and 10,000 Maniacs continue this theme: “If you could hear blood gurgling from ruptured lungs / If you could witness vile sores on innocent tongues / You would not tell me / Not with such pride and such zest / The lies of history.” They speak of one lie in particular, The Latin One (“Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori”: loosely, that it is sweet and honourable to die for one’s country, a line from the Roman poet Horace’s Odes). Sadly, men have not learned the folly of destruction. Peter Blegvad and Andy Partridge hypothesise a new and different weapon, a sort of freezing ray created by circulating helium gas through a series of valves and pipes in a specially constructed instrument, The Cryonic Trombone. This spoken-word song is eerie and creepy, and reminiscent of the malevolent weapons of science fiction. But let’s bring this playlist towards a close on a happier note. Rihanna compares freedom to life-giving oxygen in American Oxygen. “You can be anything at all in America.”  Partridge’s Dictionary of Slang tells us that the word “gas” as a joyous occasion, a celebration, derives from the use of laughing gas. So finally we’ll have T-Rex, who reflect my own native optimism that, in spite of its foibles, Life’s a Gas after all.Not all songs appear on the Spotify playlist as some are unavailable on the service.New theme: how to join inThe new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 20 April. You then have until 11pm on Monday 24 April to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for Readers recommend:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog. 