The race to the Academy Awards is largely believed to kick off every autumn, when film studios typically unveil their slate of serious contenders. But for the feature documentary competition, the gallop often begins as early as January, before the previous awards season has even wrapped. Weiner – how a film about a political sex scandal suddenly got more intimate The Sundance film festival in January serves as a springboard for the documentary film-making community. The bulk of eventual nominees start their journey at the event. These include two of last year’s most high-profile contenders, Cartel Land and What Happened, Miss Simone?, as well the musical documentaries, 20 Feet From Stardom (2013) and Searching for Sugar Man (2012), both of which won the top honor during their respective years.The Berlin film festival that immediately follows showcases more documentaries aiming to make it on to the Academy’s shortlist, as does Austin’s SXSW equivalent in March. Cannes may be known for premiering the best new narrative films the world has to offer, but in recent years it has opened up its doors to more non-fiction work. Asif Kapadia’s devastating Amy Winehouse tribute Amy, premiered out-of-competition there in 2015, before going to net the Oscar the next year.With all this in mind, below are the documentaries that have been making waves this year, with the best chance of being remembered come Oscar time.The sure betsGleason   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Gleason looks like the documentary to beat this year. At first glance, it sounds like a sentimental hoodwink: the entire film’s composed of home videos New Orleans NFL player Steve Gleason made for his son, shortly after being diagnosed with ALS (the same muscle debilitating disease that afflicted Stephen Hawking). Instead, Clay Tweel’s film is one of the most intensely raw documentaries in recent memory.Gleason by no means make for easy viewing: watching Gleason’s supportive wife crumble under the weight of the expectations placed upon her is heartbreaking, as are the many heated exchanges between Gleason and his religious father, who wants his son to accept his fundamentalist ideals. What it is, is essential viewing. You leave the film shaken to the core, yet profoundly enriched by Gleason’s continued fight to live life to the fullest. Every tear feels earned.Life, Animated      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Owen Suskind in a scene from Life, Animated. Photograph: APThe same goes for Life, Animated, another incredibly moving documentary about a young man battling a life altering disease, in this case, autism. From Oscar winner Roger Ross Williams, the film focuses on the life of Owen Suskind, who used his passion for Disney cartoons to develop communications skills and to connect with his friends and family. It’s more heartwarming than Gleason and more conventionally made – factors that could either hurt or help its chances.Weiner      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anthony Weiner, politician and subject of Weiner. Photograph: PRJosh Kriegman and Elyse Steinberg’s candid peek into Anthony Weiner’s disastrous New York City mayoral bid in 2014, is one of the most entertaining films to come out this year – it also just so happens to be a documentary. Like the best political comedies (Wag the Dog, Primary Colors), it sends up its subject, while also skillfully peeling back the layers to show the inner workings of a major campaign gone awry. Its mix of uncomfortable yucks and pathos led it to net Sundance’s highest documentary honor.Likely contendersOJ: Made in America      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   OJ Simpson and Robert Shapiro during the trial. Photograph: Sipa Press/REXYes, ESPN’s seven-and-half hour documentary was made to be experienced on TV, but in choosing to play it in select theaters in New York and Los Angeles in May, the episodic film stands a shot at garnering Oscar attention. It more than merits it. Ezra Edelman’s epic chronicle of Simpson’s life and times was heralded as “marvelous” and “gripping” by the Guardian’s Brian Moylan upon its premiere at Sundance, where it drew some of the best reviews of the festival. One thing’s for sure: it’s bound to succeed at the Emmys.Author: The JT Leroy StoryTo literary-minded audiences, the story of JT LeRoy is no doubt a very familiar one. Still, Jeff Feuerzeig’s riveting re-telling of the events that lead to the bombshell discovery that LeRoy was in fact a fictional creation, is made freshly provocative because of its fascinating subject: Laura Albert, the Brooklyn mother behind the conspiracy. It shares a lot in common with Tabloid, Errol Morris’s 2010 twist-filled documentary, which in the end proved too enigmatic for the Academy’s tastes.And the Oscar might go to: the sure bets and underdogs critics have already seen Risk      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Poitras’s follow-up to Citizenfour shifts its focus to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. Photograph: Jack Taylor/AFP/Getty ImagesLaura Poitras won her first Oscar for Citizenfour, her urgent 2014 paranoia exposé on Edward Snowden. Her chances at bagging a second for that film’s follow-up, Risk, look unlikely, although a nomination could surely be in the cards. The Cannes premiere, which shifts the focus from Snowden to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, was met with less favorable reviews upon its unveiling. In a review for the Guardian, Catherine Shoard blamed the film’s shortcoming on the protagonist. “...this is a passive hero, for all his keyboard-tapping, trapped in an inert, finger-twiddling narrative,” she wrote. “Risk has little of the shivery thrill of Citizenfour, with its claustrophobic focus and tight timeframe.”Tickled   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tickled: what starts out as lighthearted soon morphs into a disturbing study.Tickled, the first documentary from New Zealand TV personality David Farrier (co-directed by Dylan Reeve), tells a story so outlandish it could only be true. Farrier features prominently in his own film, searching for answers after stumbling across a Facebook page advertising a “competitive endurance tickling” event in Los Angeles. What starts out as a lighthearted glimpse into the inner workings of a niche porn empire soon morphs into a disturbing study of cyberbullying. The film’s caused quite a stir since premiering at Sundance and opening in select theaters over the summer, much like 2010’s Catfish – which, while popular, failed to net any major accolades.Outside betsZero Days      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alex Gibney hasn’t won an Oscar since Taxi to the Dark Side in 2007. Photograph: Axel Schmidt/APThe prolific Alex Gibney (in 2015, he release no less than three films) is back with his latest provocation, Zero Days, a documentary that posits cyber-attacks as the next big thing in war. Like his damning Scientology exposé, Going Clear, Zero Days is expertly unnerving. It’s also very expository, often laboriously so, weighed down by all the information Gibney wants to get across. And although he won the Oscar for Taxi to the Dark Side in 2007, his 18 features that followed failed to net him a nomination.The Eagle Huntress      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Eagle Huntress is suitably epic. Photograph: Kissaki FilmsDocumentary director Ott Bell’s portrait of a 13-year-old girl from Mongolia with aspirations of being the first woman to follow in her community’s male tradition of training her own eagle to catch foxes is suitably epic in scope and stunningly captured by cinematographer Simon Niblett. However its subject matter and Bell’s gentle approach to the material also skew a bit young; calling to mind last year’s He Named Me Malala, which failed to enter the Oscar fray despite a prestigious premiere at the Telluride film festival.Sonita   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sonita follows a 14-year-old Afghan refugee in Iran who dreams of becoming a rapper.As far as uplifting documentaries go, Sonita seems unstoppable. A hit on the festival circuit, where its been met with many a standing ovation, Rokhsareh Ghaemmaghami’s film follows Sonita, a beautiful but visibly dispirited 14-year-old undocumented Afghan refugee in Iran, who dreams of becoming a world famous activist rapper. For three years, Ghammaghami documents the turbulent life of Sonita, while crossing the line from observer to participant in her own documentary. That bold choice, which calls into question the ever-evolving role of non-fiction film-maker, could prove too divisive.Trapped   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Trapped follows the struggles of Texas abortion clinics, but its impact may be diluted by recent developments.In Trapped, lawyer turned film-maker Dawn Porter follows the ongoing struggles of abortion clinic workers in Texas, fighting against so-called Trap laws to keep the procedure safe and legal in the US. Porter’s crafted a persuasively angry film, full of heartbreaking moments – but its impact on some could be diluted by a recent development that renders the film somewhat dated. Much of Trapped concerns the US supreme court case of Whole Woman’s Health v Hellerstedt, the biggest abortion rights challenge in two decades, that centers on two such pieces of law passed in Texas. In July, months after the Sundance premiere of Trapped, the supreme court effectively struck down the laws.