Anyone who has ever watched Prime Minister’s Questions, heard a budget speech or listened to a party manifesto will be familiar with the ritualistic slogan speak used to deliver policy positions in easy, bite-sized measures. It is this overly simplistic delivery that prevents engagement with the actual policies of our political administration. It writes us out of our own story through generalisation. No one can interact meaningfully with a monocultural, political-performance factory, riddled with pretence and convention, because it means nothing. When words are so cleverly disengaged from their meaning to prevent reaction or counterpoint, it remains impossible to fully understand how such soundbites might relate to the reality of living.Theatre: the nation’s debating chamber When Rosana Cade, Laura Bradshaw and I set out to make a show to highlight our disenchantment with this state of affairs, we decided to use words from actual Tory party conference speeches. In our piece, Cock and Bull, the material of party rhetoric is composed, patterned, repeated and developed until we exhaust both the words themselves and our capability to say them. The process began with watching all the speeches from the 2014 Conservative party conference. In full. I had never heard so much political speak back-to-back before and, reaching the end moments of the conference, I felt overwhelmed by the presentation of mostly white, male, middle-aged, privileged voices, stuck in the blatant repetitions of catchphrase, motto and tag line.We are the party of hard-working people! Returning fairness to the system! Fix the roof while the sun is shining!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   George Osborne at the Conservative party annual conference at Manchester Central in 2015. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianI was first invited to create Cock and Bull by the Arches venue (sadly now closed) in Glasgow. I wanted to create a piece for the eve of the 2015 general election, responding to what I was hearing from the voices in power. I wanted to find a space for the frustrations and alienation that I and so many were feeling. With the ballots opening hours after the performance, we thought of it as a potential exorcism of sorts – spitting, chanting and drawling these words out of our bodies. The audience was energised and optimistic, teetering on the brink of potential shift. Many of the Scottish left were still wounded by the outcome of the independence referendum, but rejuvenated by the hope for change at the ballots the following day. The morning did indeed bring about a shift in Scotland (with Conservative votes almost non-existent), but on turning on the radio I cried at the news of a Tory victory. Making this work had only reinforced how polarised I felt in relation to these men in navy suits, telling me repeatedly of a “land of opportunity for all”, which most of us will never see.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I felt overwhelmed by the presentation of mostly white, male, middle-aged, privileged voices.’ Photograph: Julia-Kristina BauerA year on, we are not on the brink of another general election, and this month’s polls told a different story of the Conservatives in Scotland. The context for this work is changing all the time, and so must the piece. However, at its core, it remains about trying to find a way through a system that you feel does not represent you. What do you do when you feel your voice goes unheard?I can recall times where I have witnessed voices used to undermine or silence others with seeming effortlessness. In many instances I have seen this done by men who wished to exert their intellect or privilege (a phenomenon brilliantly captured in Rebecca Solnit’s essay Men Explain Things to Me or characterised in David Cameron’s famous “Calm down, dear” moment). While a tool for beauty and transcendence, with the means to communicate our deepest and most vulnerable selves, the voice can also be a dangerous and damaging weapon.If Cock and Bull is a kind of exorcism, then we are purging an inner-life possessed by the very darkest of shadows: repeated alienation, misrepresentation and disenchantment. This feels more meaningful, empowering and effective than many of the crosses I have drawn on ballot papers in recent years. Cock and Bull is at Toynbee Studios, London, 20-21 May. Box office: 020-7650 2350.