Starz’s The Girlfriend Experience, which started on Sunday and is available for screening now, checks a lot of boxes for what prestige TV is supposed to look like. There’s an illicit setting, in this case high-class escorting. There’s nudity (entirely female of course, at least in the premiere). And there’s an aggressively dislikable antihero in law student Christine Reade, played with disengaged froideur by Riley Keough. Not since early Mad Men has a facial expression of sheer boredom and disdain been so compelling. And it has a big name from Hollywood attached: Steven Soderbergh, who directed the original film The Girlfriend Experience. The series is credited as having been “suggested by” the movie, and Soderbergh is an executive producer.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Soderbergh isn’t behind the camera – each episode of the show is written by Lodge Kerrigan and Amy Seimetz (who both worked on AMC’s The Killing) and directed by one of them, but Soderbergh’s influence is felt throughout. There’s the sterility and claustrophobia of Chicago’s legal world and expensive bars, the show’s willingness to engage in and comment on voyeurism, and its droning score. (Rather than regular collaborator Cliff Martinez, the music for The Girlfriend Experience is composed by film-maker Shane Carruth.) Soderbergh hasn’t really stopped working since his much-publicized “retirement” from film-making, but he has largely migrated to television, directing 20 episodes of The Knick for Cinemax, producing Red Oaks for Amazon, and, now, executive-producing The Girlfriend Experience. And he might be just what TV needs.The Girlfriend Experience: sex work drama needs a lighter touch It not as though film-makers working in TV is news. Going back as far to David Lynch’s Twin Peaks in 1990, and Fassbinder’s Berlin Alexanderplatz a decade before that, distinctive directors have found the freedom to tell ongoing stories, using the template of a longer series to explore, especially, particular tones. (Small-town surreality in the case of Twin Peaks, adult emotional devastation in the case of the Duplass brothers’ recently concluded Togetherness, unadulterated, sterile gloom in the case of David Fincher’s first two episodes of House of Cards.) And it’s not hard to see why film-makers flock to television, a medium where simply putting the camera in weird places is often lauded as revolutionary, and “cinematic” is consistently employed as a complimentary adjective, as if to suggest that TV shows are “good” by virtue of their proximity to movies.But Soderbergh has the opportunity to be a genuine innovator at the intersection of film and television, precisely because, unlike many other directors who are simply ported over to TV, he has a handle on what makes each medium unique. The Knick brings Soderbergh’s experience behind the camera to bear on one of TV’s biggest challenges – making a period piece feel fresh. Its electronic score and frenetic camerawork succeed admirably at putting the viewer in the precarious position of an actual doctor on the then cutting edge of medical progress, a task of place exploration that is far more difficult for a film working in two or three hours, rather than 10 or 20.Steven Soderbergh on turning The Girlfriend Experience into a TV show In turn, Soderbergh felt that The Girlfriend Experience could hold up as a television show because Christine’s clients provide an easy in toward one of the most important parts of an ongoing series: the distinct episode. An episodic focus is an easy way for a show to be slagged, especially in the case of rote procedurals, but they’re still the basic building blocks of television. Most of the worst offenders in the rush to make “quality TV”, especially ones made by film people, do not understand how to make a coherent episode. In giving Kerrigan and Seimetz primary creative control on the project, Soderbergh is also the right auteur to wholeheartedly embrace television’s spirit of collaboration – it’s nearly impossible for a single person to produce the amount of material needed for a season of television, especially when that person is writing and directing.And where his openness to TV production allows him to avoid some of the big mistakes made by big-name directors moving to the small screen, Soderbergh’s experience in the world of film also puts him in a prime position to push back against many of TV’s worst impulses. Take the ending of the second season of The Knick, when (spoiler!) Clive Owen’s John Thackery dies on the operating table. On nearly any other show, and on most other networks, this would never happen – Thackery is, after all, the main character of the show, and Owen its biggest star. This kind of decision is anathema to TV shows, which thrive on extending a status quo long past the point of narrative incoherence or even the slightest bit of audience interest. Remember when Brody stuck around for three whole seasons of Homeland? Or how Dexter didn’t die at the end of Dexter, just because Showtime maybe wanted to bring him back at some point?Blending the sensibilities of film and television across a wide variety of projects allows Soderbergh, and The Girlfriend Experience, to start to get at something that manages to push at the boundaries of both. (Soderbergh is also working on a “choose-your-own-adventure” project with HBO, titled Mosaic.) This flexibility also allows The Girlfriend Experience to incorporate a wide variety of genres, from legal drama to art film to bizarre intimacy play (without the intimacy). Of course, not all of this means the result will be good, just that it will be interesting.For all the well-shot, well-composed moments of the first episode of The Girlfriend Experience, there are some tone-deaf, overly “meaningful” exchanges (a representative exchange: “You find guys online?” “I find everything online”). And the strength of Riley Keough’s performance doesn’t make the show’s relationship to its subject matter any less … icky. Throughout most of the first episode, Christine is content to simply drift through her relationships, picking out things that are useful to her in the same way Soderbergh picks out elements from the histories of film and television. Christine even has a brief phone call with her mother, but we don’t really hear the maternal voice. Saddling the audience with Christine has left us, ultimately, alone.