Game of Thrones author George RR Martin has revealed details of a new short story set in his Westeros universe, focused on the bloody and incestuous Targaryen family history.The Sons of the Dragon will be published in a fantasy anthology called The Book of Swords in October. Chronicling the reigns of the second and third Targaryen kings, Aenys I and Maegor the Cruel, the story will also explore what happened to their families, friends and enemies during their time in power.In the world of Westeros, both kings reigned roughly 250 years before the main storyline of Game of Thrones begins, when their descendent Daenerys begins her attempt to reclaim power.In the Game of Thrones reference book The World of Ice and Fire, written in the voice of historian Yandel, Aenys I is described as being a dreamer, alchemist and womaniser. Weak and indecisive as a ruler, Aenys flees the throne in the midst of a religious uprising, spawned from the populace’s disgust at his having arranged the marriage of his son and daughter to one another. His half-brother, Maegor, inherits the throne and embarks on a series of brutal acts of revenge on those who question his right to rule, using torture, execution and his enormous dragon to keep would-be dissenters in line.“He is better remembered as Maegor the Cruel, and it was a well-earned sobriquet, for no crueller king ever sat the Iron Throne,” Yandel writes. “His reign began with blood and ended in blood.”The Book of Swords anthology will be edited by Martin’s friend, the editor Gardner Dozois, who has co-edited eight anthologies with the Game of Thrones author. However, The Book of Swords will be edited by Dozois alone, as Martin is now focused on finishing the long-awaited sixth book in the Song of Ice and Fire series, The Winds of Winter: “The anthologies, much as I loved them, were taking too much of my time, so I stepped back from them … until I finish The Winds of Winter, at least. Once that’s done, maybe I can sneak another one in.”On his website, Martin revealed the story emerged from his previous writing about Westerosi history, which was collated into The World of Ice and Fire, published in 2014. After he got “carried away” writing the history of his creation, Martin abridged the biographies of several characters and family lines for that book, and on his blog revealed that they would be included in a longer history book, still “years away”, called Fire and Blood.Game of Thrones: how will Winds of Winter regain the suspense stolen by the show? The Sons of the Dragon had come from the same collection of unused material, Martin said, which he gave to Dozois for the collection as he did not have time to write something new. Martin wrote that the story would be “a history rather than a traditional narrative. A lot of telling, only a little showing. (The opposite of what I do in my novels). But if you’re fascinated by the politics of Westeros, as many of my readers seem to be, you should enjoy it.”Other authors featured in the anthology are Robin Hobb, Ken Liu, Garth Nix and Scott Lynch and will be published on 10 October.