Game of Thrones 9pm, Sky AtlanticWith the Battle of the Bastards settled and Daenerys (Emilia Clarke) back in the saddle in Meereen, the series six finale is free to focus on other storylines still strewn across Westeros – principally, the judicial smackdown between Cersei (Lena Headey) and the High Sparrow (Jonathan Pryce). Some fans claim HBO’s fantasy mega-hit has lacked pace this season, but it remains in a class of its own. Who else is even attempting screen storytelling on such an exhilaratingly ambitious scale? Graeme VirtueWimbledon 2016 11.30am, BBC2Will there be rain this year? Probably. Will there be Cliff Richard? Probably not. Will a new name break through? Perhaps. However, expect the men’s game in particular to be dominated by the usual suspects, led by the seemingly invincible Novak Djokovic. Attention will also focus on how far the non-Andy Murray Brits will make it through the first week. As for Murray himself, he comes in off the back of a victory at Queen’s, confident as ever. David StubbsDanger Mouse 6.45pm, CBBCThe Beeb’s terrific reboot returns. Earth has been invaded by self-unaware clowns who take laughter as a grave insult: as a custard-based homage to Independence Day gathers pace, Danger Mouse (Alexander Armstrong) must curb his mirth. It’s a typically limber script that never lets the grown-up gags impede the kiddie fun. In particular, a line about balloons, nailed with relish by Stephen Fry as Colonel K, must have had the writers high-fiving. Jack SealeAre You Owed a Pay Rise?: Channel 4 Dispatches 8pm, Channel 4Difficult though it is to imagine the viewer who would respond to the titular question in the negative, there is a serious point to this documentary. Morland Sanders explores the consequences of the national living wage, meeting workers threatened with the sack if they refuse to sign punitive contracts, and revealing well-known companies that regard employees as inconveniences rather than assets. Andrew Mueller Superfoods: The Real Story 8.30pm, Channel 4A series in which reporter Kate Quilton attempts to unravel some of the myths of superfoods. There’s a trip to Japan for the presenter to try natto – a fermented soy bean good for bone health – and to say “konnichiwa” (hello) in a fashion evidently learned from Hello Kitty. And there’s also tomato news (cancer-fighting lycopene doubles in the cooked fruit) and the lowdown on red-wine drinking and hippocampus health. John RobinsonWentworth Prison 10pm, Channel 5It takes a hard woman to survive on the inside, so it’s just as well this contemporary take on Prisoner: Cell Block H is full of them. The new series kicks off four months after the prison was burned down, and Vera has been appointed governor. Those prison cliches keep on coming, with a fight in the showers and Kaz heading for top-dog status while Bea’s on the outside. And brace yourself: “The Freak” is back and out for revenge. Hannah Verdier The Great British Sewing Bee 9.30pm, BBC2We’re at the semi-final stage of proceedings, and the four remaining contenders are faced with some deviously difficult tasks. Tonight’s pattern challenge requires tackling the seaming chicanery of a Japanese-style asymmetric yoked skirt, while the alteration challenge involves transforming a duvet cover into haute couture. Will these trials bring out the best in meticulous polymath Charlotte, or will the youngest-ever semi-finalist, Jade, make it all the way through to the final? Presented by Claudia Winkleman. Mark Gibbing-JonesFilm choiceRoxanne (Fred Schepisi, 1987) 3.35am, Sony Movie ChannelA reworking of Rostand’s tragicomedy Cyrano De Bergerac, with the nasally challenged poet-warrior transformed into Steve Martin’s fire chief with the big conk. The plot stays true to the play, with Martin yearning for Roxanne (Daryl Hannah) but nobly wooing her on behalf of his dim young chum (Rick Rossovich). It’s lots of fun, particularly when Martin responds to jibes at the size of his nose with a litany of imaginative insults; and although a schmaltzy ending is on the cards, it retains much of the lyricism of the original: it’s a proper love story. Paul HowlettHanna (Joe Wright, 2011) 11.20pm, Film4Like Jason Bourne, except the assassin is a hit-girl – 16-year-old Hanna (Saoirse Ronan), who is brought up by her ex-secret agent dad (Eric Bana) in remote Lapland and taught all the ruthless skills she will need when nasty Cate Blanchett and her CIA minions turn up. Wright manages to ring quirky genre changes without stinting on the action thrills. PHLive sportWomen’s International Cricket: England v Pakistan Live one-day action from Taunton as new skipper Heather Knight beds in. 10.25am, Sky Sports 2Euro 2016: Round of 16 The final two matches from the first knockout round in France. Various times, BBC1 and ITVPremier League Speedway The Berwick Bandits rev up against the Workington Comets. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1