The X Factor’s slide into middle age has been irreversible. Even last year, as Rita Ora and Nick Grimshaw were drafted in to give the programme a superficial sheen of youth, the winner’s single ended up being a Bob Dylan number.But now, at least The X Factor has finally come to terms with itself. The new judging panel, as announced this morning, is made up of Simon Cowell, Sharon Osbourne, Louis Walsh and Nicole Scherzinger. Their average age is 54 years and eight months, and they’re going to be spending the rest of the year telling teenage girls how to be sexy pop stars, which isn’t creepy at all.The combined age of the new judging line-up is 219. Realistically, you could sack them all right now and replace them with a doddery Galapagos tortoise, because not only would it have the same experience as them, but it’d also have a similar level of insight when it came to discerning the music kids enjoy listening to these days. Looking at the panel, you’d be forgiven for thinking that The X Factor has just cashed in all its chips and decided to become a cut-price convalescent hospital for knackered reality show stars. At this rate, the show’s sponsor will be Seven Seas cod liver oil. The big Christmas advert premiere this year will be for ergonomically-designed cutlery. But, still, it’s too late to complain any more. Let’s just look at the new X Factor line-up in detail.Simon Cowell without the insults: what's the point? Simon CowellClearly, this is the least surprising inclusion. After Gary Barlow replaced him and drove the show into a ditch, Cowell has come to terms with the fact that he’ll be on The X Factor as long as The X Factor continues. This tiredness has started to show. After his Mr Nasty beginnings, and his mid-period softening, we are now deep into the third age of Cowell, where he’s less likely to critique a performer than let out a long, age-old groan that comes from deep within his bones. He’s trapped there forever now. He’s Marley’s ghost. His spirit will never find peace, so long as he has to listen to witless small-town mums bellow off-key Adele songs in crappy regional conference rooms with carpeted walls.Louis WalshGetting rid of Louis Walsh last year was a mistake. But bringing him back this year is an even bigger one. His absence has exposed just how out-of-touch he really is. The last time he was on The X Factor, his role seemed to exclusively consist of being dressed up in funny clothes and spouting one of three suspiciously repetitious catchphrases. He’s less a judge at this point and more a Weekend at Bernie’s tribute act. It’s hard to see how he could put any less effort into this year’s show, unless he superglues a lolly stick to his chin and lets Dermot O’Leary work his jaw like a ventriloquist dummy.Sharon OsbourneSharon Osbourne seemed old when she last appeared on The X Factor in 2013, railing so fruitlessly against the ravages of time that it perpetually seemed as though she was performing a one-woman revival of Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? whenever the camera cut to her. And that was three years ago. You cannot discount the possibility that she’ll be judging the new series from within a vat of formaldehyde. Nicole ScherzingerScherzinger is the youngest judge on this year’s panel, but she’s still two years older than me, and I’ve been too old for The X Factor for at least seven years. Still, at least her presence will allow the continuation of her two key behavioural tics; repeating the word “balls” over and over, and being genuinely horrible to singers in their moment of glory.