I started ice skating in 1975, when I was four and a half and growing up in Berlin. It was fun in the beginning, but soon after I started school, things got serious, and my childhood took a back seat as my parents pushed me to excel. I trained six to eight hours a day.After two years, I was given “vitamins” by my trainers, all kinds of pills and powders. We had to take them on the ice, in front of everyone. We had not been raised to think critically, so many of us never dared ask what they were. We just thought, this will help me win. I didn’t feel any immediate effects and had no idea they were drugs. I later discovered that East Germany’s communist party had issued a “secret directive” in 1974, declaring that all team sports would be subject to doping. Unsurprisingly, East Germany managed to win 572 medals at the winter and summer Olympics in its 41 years in existence.When I was 16, I went to see one of the sports officials to tell him I wanted to quit: I wanted to live a normal life. He became angry and called me a “traitor to the fatherland”. That broke me: that’s one of the worst things you could call someone in a dictatorship. I started crying profusely, but he didn’t care. He said, “You will go right back out there and continue training”, which I did.I skated competitively until I was 17. I was crowned East German champion twice and came third in the 1987 European Figure Skating Championships in Sarajevo, but I can’t bring myself to be proud of my achievements. Injury forced me to stop: after 14 years of professional sport, I had had two knee operations and my back was badly damaged.In 1997, I got a letter from the state police in Thuringia, revealing that I had been part of a nationwide forced doping programme. I was shocked and couldn’t believe there had been such an abuse of power. Four years later, when I was 30 and working at a magazine, I began to show symptoms of a psychotic breakdown, which eventually cost me my job. It manifested in sensitivity to sounds: I felt as if the trains passing by were racing right through me. Then came paranoia: I was suspicious of people all the time. I started to imagine that the former secret police, and then the Nazis, were stalking me.Experience: my cat saved me from a fire I saw a psychiatrist, who eventually convinced me I needed medication. The doctors gave me psychotropic drugs to pull me out of it, and told me that my episode was the direct result of a steroid, Oral-Turinabol, I had been given as a professional skater. I felt betrayed.My chronic illness was a constant reminder. Between 2001 and 2006, I was unable to work because of my repeated psychotic episodes. I broke off all contact with my former trainers and team-mates, and eventually sought counselling, which really helped. I am still on medication and have been stable since 2006. I now work at an NGO that offers counselling to survivors of forced doping. While undeniable links to side-effects have been hard to prove, many of our clients come to us with liver and heart damage. Some have tumours; 70% have psychological problems; among women, there is a lot of breast cancer and infertility.In 2000, the state brought charges against Dr Manfred Höppner and Manfred Ewald, leaders in the East German sports fraternity. They were found guilty of causing grievous bodily harm to about 10,000 sports people affected by doping, and were given a suspended sentence. They should have gone to prison. The state gave those who were worst affected (194 people) a one-off compensation of ¤10,500 each. I was one of them. Most of us spent it on our continuing medical expenses; others took their first holiday in a long time. Although the money was nice to have, what was more important was the acknowledgment of the injustice done to us. East Germany’s nationwide doping was a crime.Now, at 45, I can see that it didn’t only rob us of our childhoods, it also caused terrible harm to our health. Even watching this year’s Olympics, I realise that we as a society haven’t learned anything. It’s all about winning, at any cost.• As told to TL AndrewsDo you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com