We often talk of chefs whose food is their art. For James Ostrer, however, his art is food. When he unveiled his latest portrait at a genteel Hong Kong art fair in March, eyeballs bulged.The artist’s rendition of Donald Trump – the centrepiece of his latest exhibition – plays with food to disturbing effect, with fish as flesh, a pig’s snout, sheep eyes and a half-eaten jam and cream croissant as the politician’s mouth.The original design used guacamole and tortillas to make a political point, but the end result, dripping with crude oil and holding a brick in its right hand, appears truly menacing. And rightly so, Ostrer says: “Trump is fucking scary.”Ostrer’s art has long revolved around food. For his 2014 series, Wotsit All About, he covered his friends, his family and himself in thick layers of brightly dyed cream cheese and added £5,000 worth of marshmallows, Shreddies and coloured sprinkles.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Just two hornettoes: an image from the Wotsit All About exhibition. Photograph: James OstrerHe fashioned eyes from liquorice allsorts and draped long strings of gummy jewellery over his subjects’ naked bodies. Then he photographed the dripping, tribal-looking figures, which he calls “totems of dysfunctionality”.“That was about my relationship with food, especially refined sugar and junk food, and my compulsive overeating,” he says at his Hampstead home, which he shares with his girlfriend Sam Roddick, founder of posh lingerie brand Coco de Mer and daughter of the Body Shop founder Anita Roddick.Ostrer, 37, painted sets for the English National Ballet for seven years, but was forced to stop after a back injury caused by some falling scenery. Now he makes sculpture and photographs: a large print of a pink head with towering Wotsit hair from his last project hangs on the wall at his house, amid bejewelled phalluses in bell jars and chintzy china plates with the c-word on them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Totems of dysfunctionality’ made out of sprinkles. Another image from Wotsit All About. Photograph: James OstrerFor Wotsit All About, Ostrer bought his sugary materials at the supermarket. To justify the contents of his basket, he would sometimes say he was catering a child’s birthday party. In the studio he worked quickly, completing a full-body portrait in 25 minutes before the decorations fell off.Now he has turned his attention from the artificial hues of the sweet shop to the injustices of the meat industry. In his most recent photo series, The Ego System, Ostrer has incorporated raw meat, fish and offal into provocative interpretations of celebrities, such as Miley Cyrus, Tiger Woods and Cara Delevingne, as well as the notorious Trump. Ostrer incorporates raw meat, fish and offal into provocative interpretations of celebrities “The same kind of formula for profit used to sell confectionery has been extrapolated and propelled within the meat industry. It’s no longer about feeding people,” he says.Does Ostrer see himself as an activist as well as an artist? “Because of who my girlfriend’s mum is, I find it almost embarrassing for me to describe myself as an activist.“I can’t compare myself to someone who has had such an impact on our relationship to fair trade. But perhaps, like being a feminist, these things should apply to us all.”Ostrer says that after his latest project he will only buy ethically sourced meat. But, two years on from Wotsit All About, has he been cured of his junk-food addiction? After all, as he says, eating disorders, like sexual compulsions, are complicated because, unlike alcohol, smoking or drugs, it is impossible to give up food completely.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It takes all sorts: another shocker from Wotsit All About. Photograph: James Ostrer“That’s what drives us – sex and food,” he says. And, in fact, instead of providing a cathartic outlet, the process of making ornate sugar icons could have made the problem worse.“I did eat a lot of the sweets in the studio,” he says. “It’s like a cocaine addict who decides to have one last major binge, thinking that’s going to solve their addiction.”The Ego System is at Gazelli Art House, London, from 15 September to 30 October (gazelliarthouse.com)