Ask the Cambridge bioengineer, Michelle Oyen, how the cities of the future might look, and she’ll reference termite mounds, along with the swirling architecture of Antoni Gaudí, whose buildings look like they’ve grown from organic matter rather than been built by human hands. Oyen and her contemporaries are currently striving to harness nature’s smart building techniques, investigating bone, eggshell, seashells and spider silk, as alternatives to unsustainable steel and concrete. “As engineers,” she says, “we throw energy at problems to make things technologically better, but we don’t necessarily think about the consequences of what all of that energy input is doing.” The concrete industry, for example, produces 5% of global CO2 emissions. The beauty of the materials that Oyen and colleagues are developing is that they can be produced in gentle, low-energy conditions.Eggshell is her favourite example. “If you look at a chicken, they go from zero to eggshell in 18 hours. It’s almost a millimetre thick, 95% ceramic, and it has this organic component that makes it very tough. The whole thing has been put down in an extremely short period of time, at an ambient pressure and at body temperature, barely above ambient temperatures.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Spidey City – Ordinary Vis’s visualisation of a city built from genetically engineered spider silkManmade ceramics, on the other hand, are formed at thousands of degrees Celsius. The ceramic deposits on the protein in the eggshell membrane, and the protein’s presence makes it more durable than manmade ceramic. “So you have this paradigm,” says Oyen, “where nature does these things cleverly, using information, whereas engineers just throw energy at them.”Organic materials, from bone to shell to spider silk, are composites of different components with complementary properties. “So you get combinations that don’t exist in a single monolithic material,” says Oyen, which is why we have to reinforce concrete with steel beams. “The steel is really good at taking tension and the concrete is really good at taking compression.” Nature makes its own similarly resilient combinations. Eggshell is much more resistant to fracture than manmade ceramic because of its collagen membrane. Spider silk is stronger than steel (if you had a strip of steel as thin as spider web, the web would be stronger), yet flexible, because it is a perfectly designed composite of proteins, which allow it to change consistency according to the resistance it faces.Spider silk is, says Oyen, “extremely tunable,” in that its properties change according to its water content. The spokes of spider webs are stiff, whereas the spiral of silk running around the spokes is droopy because it has more water in it. So the less water, the stiffer it is, and vice versa. It’s still a stretch of the imagination, though, to picture spider silk holding up a garden shed, let alone big-city builds (although this has been nicely visualised by London-based architectural imagineers, Ordinary Vis, in the form of Spidey City, suspended by genetically engineered spider silk). “There’s no question,” says Oyen, “that spider silk is optimised to be a fibre, so it’s not that we can replicate it to be a three-dimensional structure, but it may be that a three-dimensional assemblage of fibres, with a matrix added in a composite material could be good.”Spider silk is also biodegradable, hypoallergenic and antimicrobial. Meanwhile, scientists have created a surface made from synthetic sharkskin, which inhibits bacterial growth. Could it erase superbugs from hospitals? Might our kitchens, bathrooms and workstations, too, end up being finished in faux sharkskin?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   On the left is an image of natural shark skin – on the right is the Sharklet micropatternYou could be forgiven for thinking that the organic part of Oyen’s materials might cause buildings to biodegrade, with disastrous consequences, but she isn’t worried. The organic element of eggshell remains so stable in the ceramic that, she says, “they’ve been able to isolate organic components from eggshells that are millions of years old.” And, regarding bone, she adds that “rock can form in the bone structure that’s giving you dinosaur bones that are 30 million years old.” It’s not, she says, that we want to make cities made of bone the way it’s in our body right now. “We can be inspired by natural materials rather than literally mimicking them.”Cities aren’t about to start resembling termite metropolises any time soon. “From a timeline perspective,” says Oyen, “for the last 10 years we’ve been trying to figure these things out. We’ve probably still a few more years to go and then maybe the following decade will be taking all the things we’ve learned and being able to apply them to making new materials.” However, the race to replace concrete continues apace. British architect Jack Munro, for example, has been experimenting with bricks made from sand and blood. “Animal blood was for a long time the main source of natural glue before we had synthetic glues,” he writes, so why not make bricks as a way of using this byproduct of the meat industry?Wooden skyscrapers could be the future of flat-pack cities around the world Cambridge’s architecture department is working on genetically modifying plants to make super-wood for building. “We’re looking at what’s in plants that give rise to properties that are beneficial for building bigger buildings: strength, resistance to rot, durability,” says senior lecturer, Michal Ramage. “Starting with a small plant called Arabidopsis, which has a short, six-week growth cycle, his team will graduate to a willow or poplar before tackling oak, eucalyptus or spruce.Meanwhile, Ramage has just returned from Chicago where he has been working on a wooden-skyscraper project. “The tallest wooden building at the moment,” he says, “is 14 stories, in Norway. In our research, we’ve been looking at buildings 80, 90, 100 stories tall.” He is teaming up with leading architectural and engineering firms, and out of these designs will come specific elements that he and colleagues can test structurally in their labs at Cambridge. Ramage suspects it’ll be a few more years before they can definitively say that the ideas will work at scale, but developers are already chomping at the bit to erect one of the first wooden skyscrapers. Imagine their excitement when it’s time for the first shell, bone or spider-silk tower.Dr Michelle Oyen is giving a public lecture at Cambridge Science Festival on Biomimetic materials: re-thinking how we build stuff on Wednesday 9 March. Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion