First, a confession: I haven’t yet seen Suicide Squad.This means I’m unaware whether David Ayer’s supervillain smackdown, the film that was intended to rescue the DC “extended universe” of comic book movies after the critical kryptonite that was Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, really is an appallingly sexist, gun-worshipping mess, as Vanity Fair’s critic wrote. I don’t have definitive proof that the movie treats Margot Robbie’s Harley Quinn like damaged “dolly jerk-off material”, as Buzzfeed’s Alison Willmore suggests, nor that it “feels like it’s taken far too many sleeping pills”, as opined by the Hollywood Reporter’s Todd McCarthy.From Suicide Squad to Batman v Superman, why are DC’s films so bad? As a fan of DC’s comics, I was hoping Suicide Squad would be the rip-roaring antivillain romp suggested by its high-energy, hyperreal trailers, the fire in the hole to help Warner Bros’s hugely ambitious slate of upcoming superhero epics finally explode into life. But unlike certain other DC acolytes out there, I’m not so preposterously partisan that I’m prepared to completely ignore a current Rotten Tomatoes rating of 33%. Sadly, this one looks like a stinker.The critics don’t always get it right, of course. Two of Ridley Scott’s finest works, Alien and Blade Runner, both received mixed verdicts from critics at the time of their original debuts in cinemas. In the case of the latter, it took 10 years and a belated director’s cut, excising the theatrical version’s tacked on voiceover and schmalzy happy ending, to reverse the critical consensus.But neither of the above were mega-budget corporate behemoths designed to usher in dozens more interlinked superhero “event movies” over the next decade, as DC desperately tries to play catchup with rival Marvel. And even the level of studio interference that dogged Blade Runner, if an article today on the Hollywood Reporter website is to be believed, pales into insignificance with the challenges faced by Ayer on Suicide Squad. At one point, we are told, Warner Bros had the entire movie recut with the help of the company that made those zippy, operatic trailers, then screened it alongside Ayer’s darker version for test audiences. Needless to say, the director of End of Watch and Fury ended up losing out.So I won’t be joining the fans who have signed a petition calling for Rotten Tomatoes to be shut down, as if a site that merely aggregates respected critics’ verdicts could ever be held responsible for the failure of a movie. There is no reason for reviewers to mount a mass, coordinated assault on Suicide Squad, just as they did on Batman v Superman, unless the film really is garbage. The critics I’ve quoted are not being paid by Marvel to rubbish everything DC serves up, as some readers seem to think. They simply sat down to watch a movie and found their eyes, ears and sense of good taste subjected to untold horrors.What’s more, DC fans should be thanking, not berating, the professionals, because the alternative is fans feeding themselves unfettered positivity in ever decreasing circles of regurgitated hype. A critic’s job is to put aside all the noise surrounding a movie, whether good or bad, and offer a pure, rational and considered response to the work that has been put in. Not only will this save moviegoers time and money on a wasted trip to their local multiplex, it also (hopefully) eventually feeds into studios making better films.Here are two examples of what happens when traditional critics are taken out of the equation. The first regards the fanboy movie blogger Harry Knowles of Ain’t It Cool News, who was one of the first reviewers to see a rough cut of Star Wars – Episode II: Attack of the Clones in 2002, and responded to this special treatment by declaring George Lucas’s film a better Star Wars movie than 1980’s esteemed The Empire Strikes Back. Others, it goes without saying, took one look at the sullen, moody teenaged Anakin Skywalker and Jar Jar Binks’s speech in the Galactic Senate, not to mention bouncing CGI Yoda, and decided to demur.The second example is Michael Bay’s abhorrent Transformers movies, which have become so successful that they are now completely critic-proof. Each successive sequel brings us yet more giant, angry, virtually indistinguishable mega-robots whose job is to smash in the heads of other giant, angry, virtually indistinguishable mega-robots until the credits roll (with possibly a scene or two in which male members of the audience are permitted to leer for a bit at Megan Fox or Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, just to break up the monotony). Professional reviewers have delivered ever more despondently derisive verdicts on all four films in the series, but people keep going to see them anyway.If the critics really were to be set aside – were Rotten Tomatoes to somehow be banned from delivering its “fresh/rotten” rating – it would not make Warner’s DC comics movies any better. On the contrary, studios would be more likely to react to the absence of a critical safety valve by delivering increasingly weak instalments, just as they did in the era before the internet allowed negative buzz about a movie to spread like wildfire and ruin opening weekends.The critics, by one method or another, probably stopped a lot of the angry DC fans who have targeted Rotten Tomatoes from wasting their time on an evening in the company of the all-new, doomy and listless Fantastic Four last year. Some may even have been saved the horror of sitting through the interminable, impenetrable comic-book dirge that was Batman v Superman. Others might yet be persuaded that the new Ghostbusters movie is not, in fact, the childhood-ruining, man-hating monstrosity some corners of the internet would have you believe it to be, but a thoroughly enjoyable, divertingly different comedy blockbuster featuring some of the funniest ladies (and gentlemen) in Hollywood.I’ll be seeing Suicide Squad tomorrow night, in the full knowledge that I’m unlikely to have much fun. But at least I get paid to watch movies. For those DC fans determined to tarnish the critics for ruining their fun, I would respectfully suggest picking out a different target. Because the only professionals to blame for the failure of Suicide Squad are the people who made it. 