The A to Z of Reader’s Art series has reached the letter M. This month we want your artworks that show visions of majesty – and who better for inspiration than James Thornhill, whose Painted Hall for the Old Royal Naval College in London, is one of the great unsung wonders of British art.Good thinking: your art on the theme of knowledge Thornhill created the epic series of paintings for the hall between 1707 and 1726. Although he was knighted by George I, and kicked off the British painting tradition of the 18th century, he tends to be remembered as the father-in-law of William Hogarth.A new exhibition I’ve helped to curate aims to address this. A Great and Noble Design explores the story of Thornhill and the Painted Hall through numerous preparatory sketches made by the artist, including rarely seen original drawings. They provide abundant proof of his abilities as a draughtsman and skilful improviser. Thornhill’s facility with pen and wash are reminiscent, in some respects, of Inigo Jones, born roughly 100 years before. Both men designed for theatres, and demonstrated confident handling of architecture. Unlike Jones, however, Thornhill’s drawings show a consistent mastery of perspective, and he used innovative techniques such as the convention in architectural drawing known as the laid-out wall elevation, where each face of a building is laid flat around the floor plan.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Thornhill’s central oval at the Painted Hall,1707-08. Photograph: Old Royal Naval CollegeThe little-known Painted Hall sketches are art objects in their own right, but they are also vital evidence. We can piece together the way the artist conceived this opulent and complex work, and how he deftly adapted its iconography in response to the fast-moving politics of the Augustan age.The Painted Hall was highly praised by contemporaries. In his history of 18th-century British architecture, published in the early part of the century, Colen Campbell declared of the lower hall ceiling: “Here Foreigners may view with Amaze, our Countrymen with Pleasure, and all with Admiration, the Beauty, the Force, the Majesty of a British Pencil! Rich in Invention, correct in Design, noble in Disposition, in Execution admirable.”As early as the 1720s, however, tastes were changing, and mural painting began to be derided as vulgar. But hopefully we can revive some of the passion and emotion evoked by Campbell in 1715, and restore to Thornhill the honour and esteem his immediate contemporaries clearly felt for him.So with Thornhill’s sheer brio and vision in mind, please submit your work on the theme of majesty.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A conserver clean a section of St Paul’s Cathedral, London, which was painted by James Thornhill. Photograph: David Sillitoe for the GuardianHow to share your artworkShare an image of your artwork via GuardianWitness, by clicking the blue “contribute” button on this page, or via the Android or iPhone app. If you have any problems, email us at userhelp@theguardian.com.We’ll feature some of our favourite submissions on the Guardian’s art and design site. By sending us your pictures you: a) acknowledge that you have created the pictures or have permission to do so; and b) grant us a non-exclusive, worldwide, free licence to publish your pictures as described. Copyright resides with you, and you may reuse your pictures however you wish. Read our full terms and conditions.Don’t worry if they don’t appear immediately – everything has to be approved before it can be “hung” in our online gallery. Do tell us in the comments if there are any improvements we could make to the series.•A Great and Noble Design is at the Stephen Lawrence Gallery, London, until 28 October.