“This guy’s crying because a fro-yo opened up on his block.”   Girls    Broad City "I hired an extremely diverse smorgasbord of unpaid interns! Ugh, I just ruined a perfectly clean white power suit."   Girls    Broad City “I’m still a sexual, viable woman. Now get out of here because I have to masturbate. That’s what you do before a date. So the sexual tension doesn’t, like, overwhelm the evening.”   Girls    Broad City “I have to piss so badly I’m going to shit myself.”   Girls    Broad City "I’d pick up your poop. You’re worth it. But I won’t make out with you. Black people don’t make out with dogs."   Girls    Broad City “I’m falling asleep right now. I could be at a brunch with a guy who owns a microbrewery. So let’s pep it up.”   Girls    Broad City "I love me some dumplings. It's like a squirrel clutch with a meatball in it."   Girls    Broad City “I just realised that I got so good at taking selfies that I just wasn’t challenged anymore. And then I thought, 'what would happen if I turned the camera… around?' It's a real epiphany for me.”   Girls    Broad City "I'm still not over Amy Winehouse."   Girls    Broad City "Nose, vagina, butthole. If God didn't want us to put our fingers in there, then why did she make them perfectly finger-sized?"   Girls    Broad City "What do Judy Garland and Lady Gaga have in common? They’re both bad bitches who don't give a fuck what people think."   Girls    Broad City “Like, I want to know more about the future of your cock.”   Girls    Broad City "I finally masturbated above the covers, without my eyes being closed."   Girls    Broad City "I think I just feel how everyone feels, which is I have three or four really great folk albums in me."   Girls    Broad City "Who would you rather go down on you? Michael Bublé or Janet Jackson?"   Girls    Broad City You got…YAS KWEEN.YAS KWEEN.YAS KWEEN.Nicely done.Nicely done.Nicely done.You passed, but you could surely do better? Time to do some binge-watching.You passed, but you could surely do better? Time to do some binge-watching.Er, not good enough. Time to do some binge-watching.Er, no. Time to do some binge-watching.Er, no. Time to do some binge-watching.Er, no. Time to do some binge-watching.Er, no. Time to do some binge-watching.Er, no. Time to do some binge-watching.Er, no. Time to do some binge-watching.Er, no. Time to do some binge-watching.Challenge your friendsSubmit answers