Here’s a task that sounds super easy: name some of your favourite female friendships in YA. Go ahead and try it! Go!How many could you name? I’ll bet you were struggling to name even three, right?There’s something a little strange that seems to happen to books between the labels “children’s” and “teens” – all the friends disappear. While children’s fiction is full of friendship stories and adventures – new friends, old friends, best friends, worst friends, lost friends – YA is simply… not. The love story takes centre stage, and the friends are relegated to supporting characters, at best. So this top 10 wasn’t hard because I was trying to choose between multiple options, but because there are so few female friendships properly represented in our fiction. This is a trend that – thankfully - seems to be changing so, in the hope that this is the case, here is my celebration of 10 fantastic female friendships in YA.Elizabeth Wein's top 10 dynamic duos in fiction 1. Maddie and Queenie in Code Name Verity by Elizabeth WeinMaddie and Queenie are from two completely different worlds, but they’re thrown together by the second world war. One a Northern pilot, the other an aristocratic spy, the two women form a fierce friendship in the midst of war. There’s a lot going on in this novel – all of it brilliant – but the central relationship between Maddie and Queenie is what sustains the novel and also what stays with the reader at the end. You just love these women, and you love their friendship. Because it’s a dual narrative book, you see each of them from the other’s point of view, and it is perhaps this unique element that makes them so, overwhelmingly, real. And maybe has something to do with the DEEP GUTTURAL SOBS that are brought on by THAT ending.My inspiration: Becky Albertalli on Jaclyn Moriarty 2. Elizabeth and Christina in Feeling Sorry for Celia by Jaclyn MoriartyFeeling Sorry for Celia is one of the landmark books of my teens and there’s one pretty clear reason why: it was the first teen book I’d ever read where the story was about friendship instead of romance. But it didn’t lose anything for being that – it’s funny and sweet and heart-warming. It’s hilarious and frustrating and sad. Feeling Sorry for Celia, which is set in Australia, tells the story of two girls in separate schools – Elizabeth and Christina – who are brought together by a pen pal scheme dreamed up by their enthusiastic English teachers. The friendship that develops alongside everything else that happens in the book is still one of my favourite across all of YA. Why you should spend Valentine’s day with your friends 3. Evie, Amber and Lottie in The Spinster Club books by Holly BourneAm I Normal Yet?, the first of The Spinster Club trilogy (also known as the “Normal series”), was published in 2015 and remains my personal standout book of the year. The book is known for its incredibly authentic portrayal and handling of mental illness – specifically OCD – and also for how it brings feminism to a younger audience, but it also has a central trio that represent one of the best female friendships in contemporary YA. Evie, Amber and Lottie are new friends at the beginning of Am I Normal Yet? and the trilogy follows their growing friendship as they become the Spinster Club. These books are a must-read for teenage girls of all stripes.4. Halley and Scarlett in Someone Like You by Sarah DessenSarah Dessen is known for writing stories that centre around relationships. Though these are usually romantic, Dessen rarely sidelines her heroines’ friendships as a result. In Someone Like You, Dessen’s second novel, the friendship between Halley and Scarlett takes centre stage. Scarlett is dealing with an unexpected pregnancy after the father dies equally unexpectedly, and the story follows how the close friendship between the two girls is put under strain by the fallout. Told from Halley’s point of view and also involving first love and changing familial relationships, this is a really special story about how friendship survives changes and trials, both big and small, during the teenager years.The top 10 bad boys in teen and YA Fiction 5. Sophie and Millie in Blood for Blood series by Catherine DoyleThere’s a lot going on in Catherine Doyle’s Blood for Blood trilogy, from gorgeous and dangerous Mafia boys to the treacherous crossfire of warring families, but Doyle still finds time and room to show the warm, funny and essential friendship between her heroine, Sophie, and her best friend, Millie. Millie is a brilliant friend and character within the novels; never relegated to sidekick or plot device, she holds her own among the high-stakes relationships and narrative arcs that take centre stage. She feels like a real person and the books – like Sophie herself – are lucky to have her.6. Saffy and Sarah in Saffy’s Angel by Hilary McKayThe Casson Family books, which begin with Saffy’s Angel, are known – and beloved – for their depiction of the central family, particularly the relationship between the siblings. But in Saffy’s Angel the story includes a beautiful exploration of new friendship between two young teenagers, both feeling slightly at sea in their own lives, who come to love and need each other. Saffy feels like an outsider in her family – adopted by her aunt after her mother’s death – and Sarah feels she is treated like one due to her use of a wheelchair. Their friendship is wonderfully abrasive and spikey throughout, proving that friendship doesn’t have to be sunshine and flowers all the time to be entertaining and heart-warming. 7. Vivian and Harp in Vivian vs the Apocalypse by Katie CoyleIn the wake of an apparent Rapture, Vivian and Harp are left to navigate the coming apocalypse without their parents or family for guidance. It’s hard to think of a time when a girl could need a friend more, and Vivian and Harp prove to be exactly who the other needs. Before the Rapture, Harp was the strong one; fierce and funny and wild, while Vivian was the quieter, sensible one. But as the world becomes stranger and more dangerous, this all begins to change. There’s nothing like an apocalypse to build character, and Vivian vs the Apocalypse proves that’s the case with friendships, too.Read the first chapter!8. Jessica and Hope in the Jessica Darling books by Megan McCaffertyThe first book in the Jessica Darling series, Sloppy Firsts, opens with Hope’s departure from the town she and Jessica live in. Jessica spills out her heart in the form of witty, sarcastic diary entries as she deals with life without her best friend. These books are unique in terms of YA friendships in that readers never actually see Jessica and Hope together – it’s all anecdotes, memories and letters from Jessica’s perspective. So it’s a testament to McCafferty’s skill – and the strength of the friendship – that the reader still feels like they know both girls and the relationship they share. Long-distance friendships are hard work but they’re possible, and they can clearly be just as entertaining. The 10 best Judy Blume quotes 9. Stephanie, Rachel and Alison in Just As Long As We’re Together/Here’s To You, Rachel Robinson by Judy BlumeFriendship is an important relationship in all of Judy Blume’s books, but it’s in Just As Long As We’re Together that it really takes centre stage. The story follows long-time best friends Stephanie and Rachel as they enter seventh grade. Their friendship is tested by the arrival of a new girl, Alison, as well as Stephanie’s parents’ divorce and all the usual problems of adolescence. These topics can feel very familiar nowadays, but there’s a reason Judy Blume is so beloved, and that’s exactly because of books like this. The three girls are perfectly drawn individuals and the ups and downs of their friendship – and lives – feels as real and current as it ever did, even 20 years on.Non Pratt's top 10 teens in trouble 10. Ruby and Kaz in Remix by Non PrattRemix is a dual narrative, treating readers to the perspective of its two central characters: best friends Kaz and Ruby. The story takes place over a three day music festival while Kaz struggles to cope after being dumped by her boyfriend. Non Pratt expertly weaves the romantic elements of the plot in with the friendship between the two girls, and it’s the latter that you really remember at the end of the book, and it’s this friendship that is at the book’s heart. This is what we really need in YA: more books that manage to combine the romantic and the platonic with warmth, wit, heart and love.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sara Barnard is the author of Beautiful Broken Things, which features friends Caddy, Rosie and Suzanne. Find out more about the book, and Sara, on her blog. Buy Beautiful Broken Things at the Guardian bookshop.