Antony Gormley says his first White Cube exhibition in four years, which opens in September, is driven by “more of a sense of urgency” than any other show he has done. From the warming of our climate and the acidification of our seas to cities dominated by skyscrapers – “nothing more than expressions of virile corporate power,” says Gormley – the artist’s despair at society’s failure to take action has filtered unavoidably into his latest work.How we made The Angel of the North “We are living in a really strange time,” Gormley said. “Yet we are all sleepwalking through it. And it is urgent we wake up. We are sort of aware the centre cannot hold, that 250 years of industrial activity has undermined and fundamentally disturbed our world – yet we feel somehow not responsible.”Gormley, known best for his Angel of the North sculpture that stands outside Gateshead, will transform the White Cube in London into a labyrinth of 15 chambers containing a series of human figures, all of different materials, sizes and postures. At the heart of the show will be Sleeping Field, an installation of about 600 small, block-work cast-iron figures, all lying down. Collectively they will resemble a modern cityscape seen from the air. I don’t see London’s towers expressing much more than the testosterone of a late capitalist society The exhibition is his first at White Cube Bermondsey since his 2012 staging of Model, which was formed of a single giant steel body people could walk or climb through. He describes his new show as “very much a sequel” to that exhibition.Sleeping Field is inspired by the corporate expansion Gormley has witnessed in London, the city he has lived and worked in for most of his life. More than half the world is living in serviced urban environments “of cappuccinos and smartphones”, said the artist, who is concerned about the impact this has on our collective imaginations.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Antony Gormley: ‘London is bought, developed and abandoned’“It is absolutely extraordinary to see the transition happening to London,” Gormley said. “Up to this point the towers have been the exception, not the rule. But it is fascinating to see how London is being transformed overnight from a terraced housing-based city to Dallas or something closer to Abu Dhabi.”Are Shoreditch skyscrapers a London tower too far, even for Boris Johnson? Gormley laments the unchanging priority of corporate values over social values as the skyline rises higher and higher. “I don’t see those towers expressing much more than the testosterone of a late capitalist society,” he added.The work’s title speaks to Gormley’s belief that we have all become “blind, sleeping servants” of a system that creates everything for us with ease and yet perpetuates social injustice and an unequal distribution of resources. His hope is that Sleeping Field will force us all to take a necessary step back and realise “we are making the equivalent of a vast termites’ nest” and that “we are all participants in this process”. The rest of the works in the show are as much about making the viewer aware of their own bodies as corporate greed. Visitors will encounter these figures as they move through the gallery’s labyrinth of fake walls or, in the case of Cave – a dark, 12-metre long, human shaped tunnel – physically enter the sculpture itself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We are all sleepwalking through life’ ... Sleeping Field. Photograph: Stephen White, London/White Cube, London“I want every room to be a catalyst for you to become very aware of your scale, your heart beating, your breathing pattern,” said Gormley. “I want to make it deeply unnerving, releasing us from our prejudices and our expectation about what a sculpture is and how it might act on us.”Many works are so large – one 13-tonne figure made from 22 blocks of concrete resembles “a rather relaxed Buddha” – they will have to be put in the gallery and the fake walls built up around them. “It’s just exploding in all different ways,” Gormley said from his studio. “Things are manic but incredibly good fun.”Antony Gormley is at White Cube Bermondsey from 30 September to 6 November.