1. Being Boiled“OK. Ready. Let’s do it.” The final words uttered by the murderer Gary Gilmore before his execution in 1977 became the first words uttered by the Human League on their debut single the following year. Being Boiled, according to Martyn Ware – who founded the group alongside Ian Craig Marsh and Phil Oakey – cost £3 to make, using two synthesisers, a microphone and a tape recorder; it was recorded in a disused factory room lined with apple packaging. Along came Adrian Wright, with his minimal musical skills, but a host of mood-setting slides, helping to create a visual identity for the band, just in case Oakey’s amazing hair wasn’t quite enough. John Peel was soon a fan, and Being Boiled sold 3,000 copies within three months. A re-recorded version made it to No 55 as part of the Holiday 80 EP, but the sign that the band had finally arrived was when a reissued version of the original flew to No 6 in 1982 in the slipstream of Don’t You Want Me’s success. Now firmly established as the pioneering record it is, it’s had a remarkable afterlife, especially in the hands of Richard X, who “mashed” it with TLC’s No Scrubs and used it as a base for Liberty X’s cover of Rufus and Chaka Khan’s Ain’t Nobody.2. The Black Hit of SpaceThere was a dark humour running through much the early League output, with Almost Medieval, Circus of Death and Crow and a Baby sounding both doomy and hilarious at the same time. How could one keep a straight face at “Dehumanisation is such a long word / It’s been around since Richard III”? Pick of the bunch in this vein is the opener of the band’s second album, Travelogue. On The Black Hit of Space, Oakey comes home after a night out and plays a record on which “futuristic sounds warbled off and on”. While he tends to his sandwich, his record becomes so omnipotent that it takes over the universe. “How can it stay at the top, when it’s swallowed all the shops?” they ask, pre-empting the dominance of streaming by a good 35 years.Cult heroes: Bob Last – subversive Scottish post-punk label creator 3. The Sound of the CrowdAfter their manager, Bob Last, engineered a split from Marsh and Ware – who went off slightly huffily and invented Heaven 17 – Oakey and Wright feared the worst. A fortnight away from supporting Iggy Pop, all they had was minimal music skills and a slide projector. So, perhaps subconsciously acknowledging that all the best pop groups of the time – Abba, Chic, Fleetwood Mac – had two women in their lineups, Oakey went down to his local nightclub and recruited Joanne Catherall and Susan Ann Sulley, initially cheesing off the purists. They were followed by another new member, Ian Burden, who was actually a musician. That new lineup, helped by the production of Martin Rushent, made The Sound of the Crowd, which became the band’s first top 20 hit in spring 1981. The combination of drum machine and shards of vocal heralded the way, and the Human League were finally a viable hit-making thing.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the Human League perform The Sound of the Crowd4. Love Action (I Believe in Love)The League had been a bit miffed at their lack of success so far – Oakey was convinced that Being Boiled and The Dignity of Labour should have been chart-toppers – and were wary that their moment might have passed. Love Action was where it all went gloriously right, reaching No 3 in summer 1981. Kept off the top by the combined Seaside Special jollity of Shakin’ Stevens and Hooked on Classics, Love Action shone out like a beacon of sanity and joy across the summer of 1981. Very much a “red” release – the band labelled their singles red for the dancefloor and “Spandau Ballet fans”, or blue for pop songs “for Abba fans” – it finally gave the band the success they craved, taking them into the high street with something people could actually dance to. Even the girls, about whom Oakey joked that they danced “completely out of time”, helped mirror their growing audience. Bob Last drafted in Jo Callis – who’d previously played with another of his groups, the Rezillos – to write some tunes, and ushered in the League’s imperial phase. 5. Open Your HeartPart of the wonder of the breakthrough album Dare was that not only was it an accessible array of amazing pop, it was amazingly easy to copy. The riff from Open Your Heart was played on a Casio VL Tone – basically a calculator doubling up as a weedy keyboard – in a simple demonstration of how affordable electronic equipment was becoming. Suddenly it seemed possible to recreate the sleek linear pop perfection in your own bedroom. All the cool kids spent that Christmas trying to work out the riff to this or Get Carter on their newfangled future toys. Having entered 1981 as relative has-beens, the band saw in 1982 as one of the biggest groups in the country, occupying the Christmas No 1 spot with Don’t You Want Me. 6. (Keep Feeling) FascinationWhile 1982’s comeback tune about Mirror Man may have felt a bit of a more traditional pop affair, echoing Motown around the same time as other Motown-echoing singles (Heartache Avenue by the Maisonettes, Phil Collins’s cover of You Can’t Hurry Love) were on the airwaves, their next single was more like the League people had been missing since they became colossally famous. The last of their red/blue labelled singles (naturally, as a toe-tapper, this was red), (Keep Feeling) Fascination is almost a futurist update of Sly and the Family Stone’s template for having the whole group sing (bar Adrian Wright), and they sound as though they’re having the time of their lives.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 7. LouiseThe 1984 album Hysteria gestated for three years in the wake of Dare, a lifetime in the fast-turnover world of 80s pop. While The Lebanon was unlikely to win them any official war-poet positions, and Life on Your Own had its own issues – it was a winter song released in mid-summer with the kind of voguish post-apocalyptic video that everyone was having a crack at in 1984, its real standout track was Louise. It seemed, on the face of it, like an ordinary tale of long-lost lovers re-encountering each other, but the lyrics hint at something much darker. It returns to the couple of Don’t You Want Me, and we find that Oakey’s frustration has dissolved into a delusional hope of reconciliation with Sulley’s character. Perhaps not fully noticeable at the time, both the single sleeve and video had nods to DYWM, with Sulley even wearing the same coat she wore in the rarely seen – deemed “too arty” by TV – promo video. 8. Human Having made their name through excellent production work with Janet Jackson, the SOS Band and Change, Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis were having something of a moment in 1986. The prospect of them teaming up with the League seemed like a no-brainer. However, unused to collaborating, the League soon fell out with Jam and Lewis over the direction of the songs, and pretty much gave up on the whole affair, with Wright leaving the band on their return to the UK. Still, Human proved to be the League’s biggest hit in America for years. Unfortunately the accompanying album Crash was as unfocused as its sleeve, and had little else to recommend past the single.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 9. Tell Me WhenNo one would have expected a Human League comeback in 1995, the high summer of Britpop. Even if their reign as the biggest band from Sheffield was about to be usurped by Pulp, they still managed to pull out their strongest album in a decade and turn up on Top of the Pops looking as odd, thrilling and amazing as ever. Tell Me When went straight into the Top 10 and garnered a new wave of fan. Their voyage out of the dumper had begun.10. Night PeopleMore than a decade after the cousins-of-electroclash affair of 2003’s Secrets, 2014 saw the release of Credo. The Human League were now in the unique position where they could play the 80s festival circuit and chat on ITV sofas about Don’t You Want Me, then turn up at Sonar and discuss Wendy Carlos on BBC4. Credo, on which they worked with I Monster’s Dean Honer, was definitely geared towards the red end of the League output. Oakey’s extracurricular activities with All Seeing I (the fantastic First Man In Space), Pet Shop Boys and Kings Have Long Arms kept him abreast of current trends, making Night People better than any new song from a band 36 years into their career could hope to be. Winningly, it featured time-honoured demented lyrics – “Leave your cornflakes in your freezers / Leave your chocolate and your cheeses” – showing that they’d not lost the sense of the everyday absurd that endeared them to the wider public in the first place. 