Every good plot needs an antihero, and this year’s was costume designer Jenny Beavan, who caused a series of small explosions when she accepted first a Bafta, and then an Oscar, wearing not the regulation diamond gown but a pleather jacket from Marks & Spencer and a pair of comfy shoes.Today in Peckham, in her first sit-down interview since the furore, the most rebellious force in Hollywood is making me a cup of tea. Light floods through from the garden, where magnolia trees are blooming. Every surface holds a collection – delicate glass vases, a cluster of faceless dolls. Beavan has just returned from the US, where she was working hard to ignore much of the imbroglio that followed her wins, and seems, if not completely alarmed by the attention, at least a little bemused.Beavan arrived at the Academy Awards early. “I was incredibly nervous,” she says. She dressed carefully, in a jacket “like the Mad Max motor bike cop”, a scarf reminiscent of “an oily rag”, “weighted jewellery”, boots and “biker-inspired” jeans, and she painted one of her nails a shiny chrome “in honour of the metal of the film. And just one, because George [Miller, the director] always said: ‘Keep it simple.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Costume drama: Hugh Keays-Byrne wears an outfit designed by Jenny Beavan in Mad Max: Fury Road. Photograph: Jasin Boland/APWhen her award came up and she heard her name being called, she gasped. Then she started her long walk to the stage. “It was a shock. I did walk fairly slowly up to the thing, because we were quite a long way away. And you really don’t want to trip – there’s quite a lot of cables, and very shiny stairs, so I was just making sure nothing happened. There was Cate Blanchett looking like an angel. And there’s me just looking like a biker.”Backstage, she was oblivious to the drama unfolding online. Vine videos had captured male guests, including Tom McCarthy and Alejandro González Iñárritu, directors of Spotlight and The Revenant, with their arms crossed, appearing to withhold their applause. “I was blissfully unaware. After the award you go backstage, through what’s called the Winner’s Walk.” It was only after she got back to her seat that the reactions of feminists – claiming her as their new queen – started to arrive in her lap, and her life abruptly changed. At the time of writing the videos have been looped more than 50m times.There’s something about the endless quality of a Vine – something about the way it seamlessly begins again, and again, the sense that you will watch this forever until something changes. When people watched Jenny Beavan walk towards the stage to accept her Oscar, past a row of men blurry with surprise at the sight of a woman in trousers, the sight of their shock flicked a hidden switch. Suddenly the lights came on, it seemed, and audiences everywhere realised that a size 8 woman in a $100,000 dress had become neutral to our eyes, and that a woman who looks like an average human was an oddity. By the time she reached the stage, accepting her award from Cate Blanchett (tall, blonde, in an Armani Privé scattered with appliqué butterflies), a discussion had begun.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Silent witnesses: Jenny Beavan walks up to collect her Oscar.For somebody who has spent a life thinking deeply about dressing people, what does it feel like to be criticised when she dresses herself? “The thing that lots of people are missing,” she says, “is that I was wearing a costume. A homage to Mad Max. I look ridiculous in frocks. I can’t wear heels – my back goes out and my feet get terribly sore. And besides, I have no interest in clothes other than what they tell me about a person. I am a storyteller – I’m not interested in fashion. Other than people like Alexander McQueen. The rest of it is just so much Cinderella stuff.” She pauses, careful. “I don’t mean that as an insult to Cinderella. It’s just – fashion like that is just telling one story. Catwalk models: not only do they all walk the same way, they all look identical. It’s only the clothes that change. Whereas when I’m researching something, I go and sit in a relevant café and just watch people, which is completely fascinating. For myself, I just wear black and white. I want to be in the background.”Beavan rests on her dining table with a sigh that suggests that all this fuss is a bit silly. “Isn’t it?” The idea that the Oscars were derailed by the footwear choices of a 65-year-old woman is ridiculous. As were the hundreds of headlines about  Stephen Fry leaving Twitter after jokingly describing Beavan as a “bag lady” at the Baftas, and the sense that Beavan’s huge accomplishments (this Academy Award, for designing the costumes of Mad Max: Fury Road, was her second; she has also won two Emmys and three Baftas) have been overshadowed by the fact that she didn’t get her hair done first – all that must be maddening.Beavan leads me through her house of 22 years, next door to Peckham’s “asylum”, a sanctuary for retired pub landlords; her Grade II listed home works under similar principles. In the basement live her daughter and son-in-law, while upstairs her friends (including comedian Joe Lycett) lodge, sharing responsibility for a dispossessed cat. There’s a Basquiat-esque painting by Tom Hardy, star of Mad Max. On the table is a dinky necklace made of tiny skulls. “I considered wearing these to the awards,” she says fondly. “Decided against it.” Up a half-flight of stairs, Beavan’s office is ceiling-high with reference books, and until recently, when she donated her archive to the BFI, this is where all her past designs were stored. When surrounded by Beavan’s work, it’s easy to forget the furore. She accepted her first Oscar, for A Room with a View, in a black suit, fringed scarf and baggy white shirt. It was 1987, and if anybody wanted to get hold of her, the hotel would stretch a phone over to her breakfast table. “We barely had cordless phones, let alone social media.”This year’s Academy Awards saw Beavan up for the 10th time; her IMDb page is the shape of the perfect DVD collection for a weekend in – The King’s Speech, Sense and Sensibility, Gosford Park. Mad Max was an opportunity for her to look away from 18th-century corsetry and experiment with post-apocalyptic fetish punk. In Namibia. When she realised she was an outsider for an award, she was particularly excited – she’d been working on the very edges of her comfort zone.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jenny Beavan, with Cate Blanchett, after winning best costume design for Mad Max: Fury Road at the 2016 Oscars. Photograph: Jason Merritt/Getty ImagesEven if she had no intention of doing anything revolutionary when she got dressed that day, even if she’s a bit embarrassed at my mime of a thousand women leaping from their sofas at the sight of her slow trundle to the stage, her choice had an effect. After the clip went viral, few had a bad word to say about her. Even Sarah Vine, who weeks earlier had dedicated her Daily Mail column to the problem with Kate Middleton’s eyebrows, said Beavan’s outfit “made me want to punch the air with feminist ardour”. Credit to Ann Widdecombe, though, who in The Express gave it a shot. “Jenny Beavan is a rude woman,” she wrote. “She plainly could not be bothered, which is rude to her hosts and her fellow guests, self-absorbed and childish... This lady is puffed up by her own ego.” Beavan is not on Twitter (“I find social media quite... dangerous”) and has deliberately not read any of her recent press. Her daughter has promised to collect the best bits for when she’s ready.Many of us cheering viewers assumed that Beavan had worn her costume with the intention of making a statement about femininity, feminism even. When in fact it was about none of those things. It was about Mad Max. “I’m a feminist with a small ‘f’,” she smiles. “In fact, this is probably the first time ‘gender’ has ever been any kind of an issue for me. But if all this is important, then I would like to use it for good.” She touches her fringe, a wedge of silvery white. “I’ll help,” she says, “but I’m not willing to become a band leader.” On her return from the Oscars, however, she expressed her desire to join the Women’s Equality Party. She was “very enthusiastic”, said its co-founder, Catherine Mayer.Beside a collection of fine pottery, nestled within a sea of cards (including one from Stephen Fry – Iñárritu sent her a “heavenly” email apology and insisted that he had applauded when she climbed to the stage), Beavan’s Bafta and Oscar stand like daffodils. “When I got home with this, it felt like the end of Babe. You know?” She raises her head. “‘That’ll do, pig, that’ll do.’”I leave Beavan’s home and notice a poster in her neighbour’s window. It reads: “It’s OK to be you.”