Welcome to this week’s blog. Here’s a roundup of your comments and photos from last week, including a novel so overwhelming it made a reader cry, a Harry Potter challenge and must-read ancient Greek and Roman authors. “Alright George Eliot!! .... Show me what you got,” says ihath, who is getting ready to devour Middlemarch:       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Can any novel be capable of overwhelming serenity? Yesconedison conedison was moved by Marilynne Robinson’s writing, a passion he shares with Barack Obama: Barack Obama’s admiration for Marilynne Robinson was such that when he was in Iowa in September of last year he made a point of seeking her out and having a little chat. I share his admiration. I finished Gilead last night. It made me cry – only the second time that’s ever happened to me. Can any novel be capable of overwhelming serenity? Yes. Finding the thought of turning to another work of fiction absurd I will ease my way down from Gilead’s empyrean heights with The Genius of the System: Hollywood Film-making in the Studio Era by Thomas Schatz. That will return me to our prosaic world without too much regret at having placed on the shelf one of the most beautiful books I’ve ever read. Let’s u-turn and move on to Emmi Bowles, who has decided to read Harry Potter for the first time: I have read the first two books in the past but did not enjoy them. But I have made it my goal to finish the series this year, so this month I am starting by reading Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone.  Good luck to Emmi.paulburns has started to dip into The Jewish War by Josephus – his third time:... and am enjoying it more than I thought I would and I’m only a couple of pages in. I’m curious if any of you have other favourite ancient Greek and Roman authors or writers from Late Antiquity, or ones you particularly dislike. Among my favourites are Herodotus, Ammianus Marcellinus, published by Penguin as The Later Roman Empire AD 354-378 (who was an absolute joyful revelation and was probably responsible for the beginning of my love affair with Late Antiquity), Tacitus, of course, Seutonius, Procopius’s The Secret History. On the other hand, no matter how many times I read Thucydides’s The Peloponnesian War, I can’t get away from the impression I’m reading about Lilliputians.Here are some of other readers’ responses. What are yours? Interesting links about books and readingSign up to our Bookmarks newsletter The Weight of James Arthur Baldwin: a writer travels to Baldwin’s home in France and examines the impact of a writer whose legacy cannot be erased. In Buzzfeed. Jane Eyre and the Invention of the Self: “Butefore the selfie came ‘the self,’ or the fairly modern concept of the independent ‘individual.’ In The Atlantic. Books I wish I’d read as an LGBTQ teenager: queer writers on what they’d recommend to their past selves. In Literary Hub. We Are Hopelessly Hooked: Tech companies are engaged in “a race to the bottom of the brain stem,” in which rewards go not to those that help us spend our time wisely, but to those that keep us mindlessly pulling the lever at the casino. In the New York Review of Books.“You Will Be Tokenized”: Speaking Out About the State of Diversity in Publishing. Leaders in the US publishing industry speak out, in Brooklyn Magazine. 10 Books About Loneliness: Olivia Laing, author of just-published The Lonely City, explores the link between loneliness and literature in 10 books for Publishers Weekly. Staff picks: Feminist books for International Women’s Day: The women workers of Verso and New Left Review share some of their favourite feminist books “in tribute to the radical roots of the observance,”. If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading,“shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here.And, as always, if you have any suggestions for topics you’d like to see us covering beyond TLS, do let us know.