The Oscars are upon us again – and this year’s are both the most predictable and most potentially explosive in years.Predictable because despite late surges for Spotlight and The Big Short, The Revenant will almost certain sweep the board in the major categories (with Mad Max: Fury Road doing the same for the technical awards). Oscars 2016: full list of Academy Award nominations An unknown quantity as not within recent memory has the ceremony been under such fire. The #OscarsSoWhite controversy reignited following nominations which didn’t include a single actor of colour for the second year running. And for the six weeks of campaigning, it’s the diversity issue which has dominated the debate. We’ll be covering the red carpet, the ceremony and the aftermath – so here’s a few pointers as to what to look out for, some final predictions and a timetable. What you need to know• This is likely to be the final Oscars in which white people loom so conspicuously among the nominees. That’s in large part on account of the backlash (in part from advertisers disgruntled by a proposed audience boycott). Protests are planned both round the red carpet, round the country – and, perhaps, inside the auditorium. Whether the measures proposed by Academy boss Cheryl Boone Isaac to up the voters’ ethnic and gender mix are deemed legitimate remains to be seen. • We’re anticipating a pretty-much non-stop stream of diversity jokes from host Chris Rock; as well as a five-minute speech on the topic from Quincy Jones. • Here we reveal who is really to blame for the diversity debate (spoiler: us!) and what we ought to do about it in a 10-point plan by the woman who started the hashtag trending. • Bone up on some previous Oscars controversies, imagine which black actors might have won in the past and cackle at some legendary Oscars snubs.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest • Leonardo DiCaprio is the surest thing ever for best actor; Brie Larson looking likely for best actress – unless Charlotte Rampling pulls off the biggest upset in Academy history. • Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu looks certain to buck the #OscarsSoWhite trend and bag the best picture and director gongs for a second year running (this time for The Revenant; last time for Birdman). Meanwhile his Mexican cinematographer, Emmanuel Lubezki, may make it a hat-trick (he also won in 2014 for Gravity). • She knows; she’s been there – the Secret Actress on how Meryl Streep helped her dry her armpits on the big night.• Find out about this year’s British short film nominees.• Who cares about the prizes – which movie made most money?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest • Watch Guardian staff cheerlead for their favourites in our Oscar hustings. • And find out how it feels to use the luxury loo roll included in the official Oscars goodie bag. Final predictionsHere’s Peter Bradshaw’s tips; here’s Mark Kermode, Guy Lodge, Catherine Shoard and Carmen Gray’s; here’s Nigel M Smith’s anaylsis of which movies came out of the campaign the strongest and here’s a full list of nominations. And here is our final guess in the key categories: Inside Out director Pete Docter: 'We wanted to make sure Riley was not a robot' Best picture: The RevenantBest director: Alejandro González Iñárritu, The RevenantBest actor: Leonardo DiCaprio, The RevenantBest actress: Brie Larson, RoomBest supporting actor: Sylvester Stallone, CreedBest supporting actress: Kate Winslet, Steve JobsBest original screenplay: Straight Outta ComptonBest adapted screenplay: The Big ShortBest documentary: AmyBest original song: Writing’s On the Wall, SpectreBest animated feature: Inside OutBest foreign language film: Son of SaulTimetableJoin us from 2:30pm PT, 5:30pm ET, 10.30pm GMT and 9.30am (Monday) AEDT for live coverage from the red carpet, including a minute-by-minute blog, rolling news, galleries, analysis and comment, taking in the ceremony – which starts at 5:30pm PT, 8:30pm ET and 1:30am GMT – and the aftermath.Tears, Trump and bear jokes: it’s the Oscars checklist! Stuart Heritage will be manning the liveblog through the evening, with help from Imogen Fox and Priya Elan on the frocks, Nigel M Smith on the red carpet, Nicky Woolf with the protesters, Dave Schilling at the ceremony, plus a full squad of news and comment writers including Alex Needham, Lanre Bakre, Benjamin Lee, Henry Barnes and Catherine Shoard. Peter Bradshaw will give his verdict once the show has wrapped, as will Stephen Thrasher and many more. We hope you’ll join us then. Remember: all you need is strength, stamina, a stiff drink, our Oscars menu (dribble with envy at the official version) and, most importantly of all, our Oscars bingo card. 