Sir Nicholas Serota is to leave his post as director of Tate galleries after nearly 30 years to become chairman of Arts Council England. Serota will replace Sir Peter Bazalgette when his four-year tenure ends on 31 January next year.Serota, one of the most powerful men in the visual arts, has turned Tate into a powerhouse, opening Tate Modern in 2000 and, during the most challenging of economic times, its £260m extension in June. He is expected to remain at the helm of Tate well into the new year, and will do both jobs until he leaves. No official date has yet been set.Serota said the job was an “enormous honour, given the 70-year history of the council, its success in recent years and the crucial role that it plays in promoting art and culture in this country”. Nicholas Serota: art's modern champion He said there had been a “sea change in public appreciation of the visual arts in this country” over the past 30 years and he was proud that Tate had played a part in the transformation “alongside other national and regional museums and the new galleries that have opened across the country in places like Walsall, Margate, Wakefield, Gateshead and Nottingham”.He added: “Tate has always been fortunate to have enjoyed the support of artists and to have benefited from the international acclaim for the work of British artists in recent years. I leave an institution that has the potential to reach broad audiences across the UK and abroad through its own programmes, partnerships and online.”Tate’s chairman, Lord Browne, called Serota “one of the world’s greatest museum directors and a leader for the visual arts on a global stage”.Serota has helped make Tate one of the most respected arts organisations in the world and it was his vision, passion and drive that brought about the creation of Tate Modern on the site of a former power station. It opened in 2000 with predictions of 2 million annual visitors, but the actual figure was closer to 5 million, making it the most popular museum of modern art in the world. He has also been the driving force behind the creation of St Ives and the successful, but high risk, opening of Tate Modern’s extension.The news that Serota, 70, will lead Arts Council England, which as the Arts Council of Great Britain received its royal charter in the same year he was born, has been widely welcomed in the arts world.Stephen Deuchar, director of the Art Fund and a former director of Tate Britain, said: “I cannot think of anyone, anywhere, better suited to the job, or more likely to succeed. This is truly momentous news for the UK arts world.”John Kampfner, director of the Creative Industries Federation, praised Serota’s “incredible track record within the arts” and “remarkable” tenure at Tate. “He completely understands the relationship between all parts of the creative sector, which will be so important in the new role – particularly now, as the UK charts a new course on the international stage.”His appointment would have been sanctioned by Theresa May and was announced by the culture secretary, Karen Bradley.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tate Modern, which opened in 2000. Photograph: Carl Court/Getty ImagesShe said: “Nicholas Serota has transformed the Tate during his time there, making it one of the leading art institutions in the world, and I am delighted he is taking up the position as chair of Arts Council England. “He brings unparallelled experience, creativity and wisdom and will continue to be an enthusiastic champion of the arts in his new role. I would like to thank Sir Peter Bazalgette for his fantastic energy and hard work in the role as he passes the baton to Nicholas.”Serota, is the son of the late Labour peer Lady Beatrice Serota, who became deputy speaker of the Lords. His career has included running what is now Modern Art Oxford when he was in his 20s and the Whitechapel Gallery, where he was appointed director in 1976. He became director of the Tate in 1988.Serota joined the old Arts Council as a regional exhibitions officer in 1970, but it is a far bigger beast now. From 2015-18 ACE expects to invest £1.1bn of public money and about £630m national lottery cash in the arts and culture sector. The most pressing issues it faces are a lack of diversity and an imbalance between spending in London and the regions. Plus what the consequences of Brexit will be on a sector which overwhelmingly wanted to remain in the European Union.The news was welcomed by ACE. Its chief executive, Darren Henley, said Serota was “a visionary arts leader of immense national and international standing, whose cultural credentials are second to none”.His start date in the £40,000-a-year part-time role is 1 February.Tate said a search for Serota’s replacement would begin immediately. The candidates to lead the huge arts organisation – comprising Tate Modern, Tate Britain, Tate Liverpool and Tate St Ives – are likely to include Frances Morris, who has spent most of her working life at Tate and was appointed director of Tate Modern earlier this year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sir Nicholas Serota laying the last brick in the extension of the Tate Modern in February. Photograph: Carl Court/Getty ImagesAnother possibility could be Nicholas Cullinan, who was 37 when he was appointed director of the National Portrait Gallery in January 2015. He was a curator at Tate Modern for five years before joining the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.Other names include Maria Balshaw, the director of Manchester City Galleries and the Whitworth; Iwona Blazwick, the director of the Whitechapel Art Gallery since 2001; Luke Syson, formerly at the National Gallery and now head of European sculpture and decorative arts at the Met and Sheena Wagstaff, another Tate curator who is in charge of modern and contemporary art at the Met.Bazalgette’s stewardship of ACE has been viewed as a success, particularly the lobbying of the government when George Osborne was chancellor, which resulted in a funding freeze when big cuts had been feared.He told the Guardian in January that he wanted new challenges “before I pop my clogs”. He added: “I will be 63 next January. I spend a lot of time on the Arts Council and that’s fine, I love it. But the question is: do I want to do it for eight years? I am very active in the creative industries and intend to continue to be active but I want to do a few other things.“It is, in a way, with regret but on the other hand you get into your 60s and think, ‘God, what do I want to do?’”What Bazalgette, still best known to some as the creator of TV’s Big Brother, wanted to do turned out to be return to broadcasting. He was named chairman of ITV, succeeding Archie Norman.