Premieres Timeless   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This NBC drama about a trio who have to go back in time to stop a terrorist from destroying history as we know it is the first of four chronology-hopping shows to debut this season. It’s a very likable, lighthearted adventure series which sees our heroes visit the scenes of the Hindenburg crash, the assassination of Abraham Lincoln and, if we’re lucky, the Titanic. Maybe we can travel to the past and stop some of the other time-travel shows from happening. NBC, Monday 3 October at 10pm ETNo Tomorrow   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Walking Dead is the end of the world if it was scary, The Last Man on Earth is the end of the world if it was funny, and No Tomorrow is the end of the world if was a sweet, sweet romance you never want to forget. Evie (Tori Anderson) meets the sexy stranger Xavier (Joshua Sasse) and he tells her that the apocalypse is coming in a little more than eight months. He invites her to help him accomplish his apoca-list of things he wants to accomplish before they are obliterated forever. Yup, it’s weird, but if we only have eight months left, at least we’ll get to enjoy this show. The CW, Tuesday 4 October at 9pm ETDivorce   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ever since Sex and the City went off the air (let’s forget about those movies, shall we?) fans have wanted Sarah Jessica Parker back on HBO. Be careful what you wish for. In Divorce she plays a suburban housewife who decides it’s time to break up with her husband (Thomas Haden Church), but the separation doesn’t go as easily as she hoped. Written by Sharon Horgan of Catastrophe and Pulling fame, this is a dark, biting comedy that has none of Carrie Bradshaw’s frippery – but fans might end up loving this show even more. HBO, Sunday 9 October at 10pm ESTStreamingThe Mindy Project   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The fourth season finale left Danny with a choice: his baby momma Mindy or his fiancée Jody. Considering he doesn’t appear anywhere in the season five trailer, we can only assume what his decision will be. Guess that means more romance for Mindy as Garrett Dillahunt and Bryan Greenberg join the cast. After all, what would Mindy be without a little bit of rom to add to her com? Hulu, 4 OctoberThe Grinder   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Like Firefly, Arrested Development and Pushing Daisies before it, The Grinder is one of those brilliant shows that was so ahead of its time it wasn’t appreciated when it was on the air. While seemingly a story about an actor (Rob Lowe) who leaves his job playing a famous lawyer on a long-running show to join the family law firm run by his straitlaced brother (Fred Savage), The Grinder was really a deconstruction of television procedurals. It was too good for this world and Fox canceled it after one season. One day we will wake up and realize this was the best sitcom of the decade and on that day, Rob Lowe will say for the last time, “The Grinder rests.” Netflix 4 OctoberTime to catch up onSabrina the Teenage Witch: CBS All Access is a great streaming service with an awful name. While it recycles original episodes of the shows the network has rebooted (like MacGyver, The Odd Couple, and Hawaii Five-O), it also allows subscribers access to some forgotten gems in need of revisiting. Currently all seven seasons of Sabrina the Teenage Witch are online, just in time for fans to celebrate its 20th birthday. Megan Koester writes: “Its feminist ethos and screwball-esque dialogue made it stand out from the average teen show of its day.” Thanks to the internet, it might be time for a reappraisal. CBS All AccessTV NewsWill & Grace makes pro-Hillary returnWoody Allen’s Amazon show isn’t so hot HBO Contemplates Game of Thrones spin-offThe CW is remaking DynastyGordon Ramsay lands new variety showNBC cancels Mail Order Family sitcom after protests