Last week, a vintage car was hoisted high on a crane above central London and slowly lowered though an opening in the roof of the Photographers’ Gallery. It now stands in the centre of the fifth-floor exhibition space, its pale grey doors and front fenders lying flat by its sides on the floor, surrounded by photographs chronicling each stage of its painstaking refurbishment from a rusty shell to an object of pristine formal beauty.The car belongs to Erik Kessels’s father, who spent much of his retirement restoring old Fiat 500s – known in Italy as “Topolinos” – until he had a stroke in 2014. He has hardly been able to move or speak since. For his son, the unfinished car is both a symbol of his plight and a shrine to his endeavour. Kessels has called the installation Unfinished Father and a single short explanatory text sits alongside the images of hubcaps, axles and tyres on one wall. It culminates with the sentence: “Like my relationship with my father, this car will remain unfinished forever.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In pieces ... ‘It seems unbelievable this car has this strange afterlife’ Photograph: Erik KesselsKessels, who has just arrived from Amsterdam when I meet him, is visibly taken aback when we enter the gallery and he sees the work in situ for the first time. “I feel proud for him, that his work has ended up here as part of this prestigious art prize,” he says. “It seems a little bit unbelievable that the car has this kind of strange afterlife.”The world's weirdest photo albums Very much the maverick on this year’s characteristically diffuse Deutsche Börse photography prize shortlist, Kessels made his name as a champion of found photography, seeking out discarded family albums in order to show us anew their mundane beauty and oddness. He is best known for his magazine Useful Photography, which celebrates images of the purely functional, and his series of books In Almost Every Picture, which home in on motifs that appear accidentally in amateur photo albums – such as wayward fingers. His new book is Failed It!, is a celebration of mistakes in photography, design and architecture: “failure of the condiment that gives success its flavour”.More recently, Kessels has become “more and more interested in the stories of the photographs” rather than the images themselves. “We have reached a place where photographs are not so special anymore because we can all make fantastic photographs every day on our phones. In the past, photographers learned a craft, but now you don’t have to. It feels like all the great and perfect photographs have been taken – but not all the stories have been told.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From Unfinished Father (2015) Photograph: Erik KesselsThe photographs arranged on the floor and walls around the dinky Topolino certainly tell one. Taken by Kessels’s father, who like many obsessive hobbyists recorded each stage of his craftsmanship for future reference, these functional images are infused with a palpable melancholy. Kessels points towards a series which show a wooden steering wheel being slowly and meticulously crafted – his father was a talented self-taught carpenter as well as a mechanic. “These photographs have a different weight now. People find out their story and they respond to them in a different, more emotional way.”Has he found creating this installation to be in any way healing? “For sure.” he says, nodding. “There has been a little bit of therapy involved in the journey. But I also wanted to avoid anything too obvious. I have a film of my father driving the car in its early stages of restoration, but it seemed almost too concrete to include.”He pulls out his laptop and we look at the footage of his father sitting in a chair on a flat wooden board atop the chassis of the Topolino, a plastic container of petrol balanced precariously above him as he steers the contraption across the front lawn of the Kessels’ family home. “I guess he was a solitary man who liked doing things,” says Kessels. “He didn’t have a lot of patience for sitting around, which makes it more difficult to see him how he is now. I am hyper-creative, too, but in a different way.”Deutsche Börse photography prize shortlist: drones v the women of Tahrir This is not the first time Kessels has made work about his family. In 2002, Baltic showed his short film My Sister, alongside Marlene Dumas’s related short My Daughter. With a soundtrack by Ryuichi Sakimoto, it shows two children playing ping pong as if in time to the music. Again, it is the story behind the images that lend the work its emotional force: the boy is Kessels, the girl his sister, who was killed, aged 11, while crossing the street in their village. “Suddenly, I was the only child,” he says. “My parents told me later that for about five years they did not know what I was up to because they were so lost in grief. But, they survived and they stayed together and it was something we could always talk about.”Unfinished Father is also a homage to perseverance, made all the more poignant by the small details that attest to a project, and a life, suddenly and cruelly interrupted. The un-upholstered car seats, the half-empty tub of grey paint and the tangle of electrical wires running from the dashboard to the floor are all imbued with a dark symbolism. Likewise, the photographs that speak of such patience, dedication and perfectionism and evoke his father’s quietly extraordinary life. “I remember at birthday parties and family gatherings,’ says Kessells, “he would always produce a small folder of polaroids from his pocket to show us what he was working on. Last week I showed him some images of the car being lowered though the roof of the gallery. He looked at them for hours. I can tell he understands what I am doing and he is intrigued by it.”• Deutsche Börse photography prize is at the Photographers Gallery, London, from 15 April until 3 July. Failed it! by Erik Kessels is published by Phaidon.