John Lahr’s 1978 biography of the playwright Joe Orton may seem an unlikely choice for a book to give you hope. After all, Orton’s success was not only a long time coming (a decade of abject failure was crowned by a six-month spell in prison for defacing library books), but when it did finally arrive in 1964 (with the West End production of Entertaining Mr Sloane) it lasted only until 9 August 1967. It was brought to a bloody and premature end by his long-term lover, Kenneth Halliwell, who bludgeoned Orton to death with a hammer before taking his own life. Orton was only 34 years old.Yet, it is these early years of struggle and anonymity that make Orton’s life story such a fascinating and, yes, inspirational read. He was born John Orton in Leicester in 1933 to working class parents. He was a poor student, a distant son; in Lahr’s words “an imagination in isolation trying to keep itself amused”, who looked to the theatre as a means of escape. A far cry from the confident, witty journal Orton would keep at the height of his fame, the gaucheness of Orton’s early entries will strike a chord with anyone who’s ever been a sad and lonely teenage diarist (and is there any other kind?): I will work really hard this afternoon and forget the theatre for a while at least. Last night sitting in the empty theatre watching the electricians flashing lights on and off, the empty stage waiting for rehearsal to begin, I suddenly knew that my ambition is and has always been to act and act. To be connected with the stage in some way, with the magic of the theatre and everything it means. I know now I shall always want to act and I can no more sit in an office all my life than fly. I know this sounds sentimental and sloppy but it is all perfectly true.At 17, he took elocution lessons to improve his chances of securing entry to Rada, and in 1951 he was accepted and made the move to London. It was here that he met fellow student Halliwell and was taken under his wing. Neither of them excelled socially or academically at Rada and they ultimately turned their attention to literature. Halliwell was seven years Orton’s senior and initially very much the dominant force in their relationship; Orton’s role that of glorified secretary: Orton was seated at the living-room table contributing to Halliwell’s effort the only literary skill he possessed: his typing. But as Orton transcribed Halliwell’s novel, he would make suggestions.And so began a long and painful decade of failure, spent largely in their Islington bedsit, living on National Assistance and Halliwell’s “dwindling inheritance”. According to Lahr, “they instituted an ascetic regime. They kept electricity to a minimum, choosing to rise with the first morning light and go to bed at dusk. They wrote in the morning. Their afternoons were spent reading and, when the weather was good, sunbathing.” Joe Orton's defaced library books and the death of rebellious art | Jonathan Jones But their literary endeavours, a series of surrealistic cowritten novels, were met with bafflement and rejection. Then in 1962, Orton and Halliwell were arrested and imprisoned for defacing library books. Their enforced, six-month separation proved to be the making of Orton. Unfettered from Halliwell’s influence he wrote the play The Ruffian on the Stair, which was accepted for broadcast by the BBC.The failed novelist John Orton was now reborn as the successful playwright Joe Orton. His talent, under the spotlight at last, flourished. Between 1964 and 67 Orton wrote four plays for the stage: Entertaining Mr Sloane, Loot, The Erpingham Camp, and What the Butler Saw; two plays for television: Funeral Games and The Good and Faithful Servant; and was commissioned to write a screenplay for the Beatles (Up Against It – which was eventually rejected.) Halliwell, on the other hand, broken by prison and by Orton’s success, was relegated to the demeaning role of personal assistant-cum-unacknowledged editor. In the shadow of Orton’s success, jealousy and mental illness would be allowed to fester.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joe Orton in 1967, outside the flat he shared with Kenneth Halliwell in Islington, London. Photograph: George Elam/Daily Mail /REXLahr’s writing throughout is wonderfully lucid and non-judgmental. He seamlessly weaves biography with literary criticism to show how Orton’s working-class upbringing, his almost pathological promiscuity and the psychosexual battleground that his relationship with Halliwell had become, informed his work. But as art imitated life, so life came to imitate art. Relations with Halliwell were increasing fraught, and Orton, writing in his diary in May 1967, seems to anticipate future trouble: To be young, good-looking, healthy, famous, comparatively rich and happy is surely going against nature … I hope no doom strikes.Of course, that doom does arrive and the ending is desperately sad. But what remains is the work. And ultimately, Prick Up Your Ears is a celebration of Orton’s work and a brilliantly illuminating account of the writing life. And even when that life is cut horribly short, it still remains a testament to the enduring power of hope, and of triumph over adversity. As Orton’s close friend Kenneth Williams said: Joe admired Wilde for the great pains he took with his work. He used to quote me Wilde’s dictum: ‘Talent is the infinite capacity for pains.’ He took pains. Polish. Reconstruct. Give you another edition. Another page. Every word polished painstakingly until the whole structure glitters. His application, his industry, and his consistent diligence – astonished me.