Oscars 2016: full list of nominations This year’s Oscar nomination list confirms the massive frontrunner status of Alejandro González Iñárritu’s The Revenant, which has won 12 entries including best film, best director and best actor for Leonardo DiCaprio. This movie – a brutal survival story – is an electrifying experience on the big screen, thrillingly cinematic; for me a film like this has to be savoured in the cinema, and not at home on your tablet or smartphone.There are other things to cheer about in this Academy Award list. Charlotte Rampling has a much deserved nomination for her performance in Andrew Haigh’s 45 Years, although sadly there is nothing for Tom Courtenay. It is certainly a good best actress list, with further nominations for Jennifer Lawrence for Joy, Cate Blanchett for Carol, Brie Larson for Room – and Saoirse Ronan for Brooklyn, which is the performance which I think should win. It is also great to see nominations for best documentary go to Asif Kapadia’s Amy and Josh Oppenheimer’s The Look of Silence.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Revenant gets 12 Oscar nominations – videoAs for snubs, that perennial subject, the academy has once again found itself in hot water for a lack of diversity. Despite a supporting nod for Stallone, there is no nomination for Ryan Coogler or Michael B Jordan as director or actor for their amiable Rocky 2.0 boxing picture, Creed, or Idris Elba for his great performance in Beasts of No Nation, or Samuel L Jackson in The Hateful Eight. It isn’t PC to groan at this.Oscar nominations and Alan Rickman – the Dailies film podcast Elsewhere, I think Alicia Vikander would have been a good best actress nomination for her performances in Ex Machina or The Danish Girl – and Carey Mulligan could have got something for Far From the Madding Crowd. And Toni Collette would have been a smart and interesting choice for her utterly heartfelt performance in Catherine Hardwicke’s Miss You Already. Quentin Tarantino failed to get deserved writing and/or direction nominations for his superlative new film The Hateful Eight – although it is great to see Jennifer Jason Leigh’s work on that movie get recognised.Oscar nominations 2016: The Revenant leads field, Mad Max in second place As for the other films, George Miller’s delirious fantasy action-adventure Mad Max: Fury Road has a whopping 10 nominations, a testament to how popular this movie is and how excited the Los Angeles industry is about it. I very much enjoyed this entertainingly hyperactive film, and Tom Hardy and Charlize Theron are both very good. But I have to reiterate my bafflement at how reverently it is being treated. It is great that the Oscars aren’t kowtowing to middlebrow “quality” cinema: sure. But in that case I’d prefer to see Inside Out get more nominations. This wonderful animation has something for best original screenplay, but it should also have been in there for best film. So, too, should Charlie Kaufman’s unclassifably extraordinary Anomalisa.Another big winner is Ridley Scott’s The Martian with seven nominations, and this is another likeable, good-natured film about a Nasa astronaut marooned on Mars which is riding a wave of popularity, very much on the back of Matt Damon’s boyish and winning lead performance. But I can’t be persuaded it’s as good as all that. (At the Golden Globes, it even found itself winning big in the comedy category, something which I found puzzling at first, but might be a clever way of responding to it as entertainment.) I think The Martian is certainly well directed by Ridley Scott – who, oddly, does not have a nomination.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Martian – video review.Now I must risk being even more churlish in expressing my disappointment with Adam McKay’s The Big Short (five nominations) about the financial mavericks, geniuses and chancers who “shorted” the market on Wall Street before the 2008 crash – that is, betted that the sub-prime disaster was going to happen. If there was an Oscar for being overrated, I think this would win – shallow, laborious, self-conscious, patronising and unsure whether to be a righteous condemnation of fraud or a celebration of cool amoral dudes who saw how to make big bucks out of disaster. For me, it had neither the energy of Scorsese’s The Wolf of Wall Street nor the plain informative clarity of a documentary like Charles Ferguson’s Inside Job.But it looks increasingly as if The Revenant is going to own this awards season. That would be all right with me.