As the Watermill’s revival of Watership Down in Newbury proves, there is more to playing rabbits than bouncing around. Melly Still’s original Lyric production of the play a decade ago made even greater physical demands on the actors, with tiny trampolines, carrots as pogo sticks and kickboxing all serving to emphasise the humanity in rabbits and the rabbity-ness in humans. Not surprisingly, there were injuries during the run.An actor friend once wryly observed that she had spent three years in drama school preparing to give her Lady Macbeth, but since graduating had mostly been called upon to give her very grumpy sheep, her very grumpy badger and her very grumpy frog, in a succession of children’s shows. But depicting animals on stage is not child’s play, it’s a real skill. I genuinely thought that Craig Edwards’ performance as Rochester’s dog, Pilot, in Sally Cookson’s staging of Jane Eyre at Bristol Old Vic and the National, deserved an award all of its own. Preferably in the shape of a dog biscuit.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watership Down at the Watermill theatre in Newbury. Photograph: Philip TullIt has been nice to see actors playing animals again at the National, as the success of War Horse has meant that puppets have tended to get the prime animal roles. The National has a rather honourable history of humans playing animals, from the actors as horses with wire heads in Peter Shaffer’s Equus, through the farmyard animals in Peter Hall’s Animal Farm in the 1980s, to the ensemble who played the scene-stealing sheep in Polly Findlay’s utterly delicious staging of As You Like It. Of course there is nothing like a real dog or rabbit on stage to delight an audience, and in such circumstances humans face an uphill struggle – as was the case in Rufus Norris’s production of Hergé’s Adventures of Tintin, in which the brief appearance by a real canine as Snowy at the start of the show made it hard for the actor to compete. I’ve seen Zoë Wanamaker shine as a winsome pooch in AR Gurney’s Sylvia and Kathryn Hunter astonish as an ape in Kafka’s Monkey, but I’d like to hear about the performances that have made you woof with pleasure. And while you are thinking about it, here are some pictures of real theatre cats. 