In a quiet corner of Whitby harbour, Alan Lane, artistic director of the Slung Low theatre company, is trying to manhandle me on to a brick-red, 80ft fishing vessel called Chieftain. I’m wobbling on a ladder about 10 feet away from the deck, which is inching further and further away. While I try to avoid dropping my laptop into the sea, Lane yanks on a rope with practised ease. Eventually, I make it on board. He races off, desperate to show me the wheelhouse. “We couldn’t build a set as good as this,” he says, patting the radar screen with delight.Camelot: The Shining City review – Sheffield stages an explosive revolution Co-founded by Lane in 2000 and now based in Leeds, Slung Low make drama of a kind few people can – or want to. In 2015, Camelot: The Shining City evacuated a headphone-wearing audience from the smouldering Sheffield Crucible and kettled them with a Molotov-wielding mob, 150 people strong. Blood and Chocolate, staged in York in 2013, marched participants off to the first world war with a platoon of Tommies. The following year, the White Whale restaged a whale hunt based on Melville’s Moby-Dick with real boats and a set that bobbed around on Leeds Dock. As projects by companies such as Wildworks and National Theatre Wales have proved, large-scale drama can create spectacular one-off experiences. But Slung Low have demonstrated their skill at much humbler projects, too. One of their shows toured rugby clubs. Another took place in a local leisure centre.Flood, their latest adventure, is part of Hull’s year-long tenure as UK City of Culture. Written by their regular collaborator James Phillips, it’s their most ambitious show to date: an imaginary journey into a dystopian future where waters have risen and the city is attempting to save itself. For anyone who lives there, the subject will seem uncomfortably real: about 95% of Hull sits in a flood plain, and it has suffered regular inundations since the disastrous floods of 2007. So, too, will references to a “flood” of another kind: the ongoing migrant crisis, which will seem especially barbed in a city where 68% of voters opted for Brexit.The show takes place on the city’s Victoria Dock, and features a cast of eight professional actors and 50 extras. It will be staged in four separate parts over the next eight months, including a live show in the spring and a BBC2 broadcast this summer, culminating in an omnibus-style event in October. There will be boats.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   … the Flood crew prepare to set sail for filming. Photograph: Gary Calton for the ObserverOver chips and curry sauce in a nearby cafe (no fish: Lane is vegan), Lane admits that even just craning in the floating set, a process that will take place over the next month, is an ambitious undertaking. “It’ll look like a city, with a detention centre, a wilderness … it floats, breaks apart, sets on fire. Bits of it sink.” He chews thoughtfully. “I’m not sure anyone’s ever quite done a play like this before.”Slung Low first came to Hull in 2011 for Mapping the City, which took audiences on a three-hour ramble around the streets. After its success – the Yorkshire Post’s reviewer said with palpable surprise that “Hull has never been so beautiful” – City of Culture creative director Martin Green suggested a long-term project might help forge links with local communities, and bind together the disparate strands of its performance programme. Among much else, these include a new play by Amanda Whittington on the Hull-born, world-champion boxer Barbara Buttrick, and a series of installations by high-tech collective Blast Theory.Fireworks launch Hull's year as the UK's City of Culture Phillips explains: “We have this huge, overarching story, but it’s told in different ways: floods of different kinds, in one big narrative.” Any resemblance to the mystery cycles staged in York during the medieval period – there the story of the biblical Flood was performed by the Fishers and Mariners’ guild – are accidental, he says. But the ambition is similar. “I wanted to make it epic – a big, political piece of theatre, but with a touch of magic.”We have arranged to meet in Whitby because Lane, Phillips and their team are heading out to sea to film footage for the first part of the installation, which will act as a kind of prologue to the live events later in the year. Lane shows me the script: the boat we’re on drags up a haul of empty lifejackets; nestled inside them is a mysterious woman, who springs suddenly to life. Things only get weirder from there. Philips admits that he hasn’t yet finished the whole thing, “but I know what happens – pretty much”. (The film has since been finished and can now be viewed online.)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The logistical challenges are considerable, concedes producer Joanna Resnick, showing me snaps of a 27ft fishing vessel they have bought, which will stand in for Chieftain during the live show (“our stunt double”). Several of the Slung Low team boast powerboat licences; Lane is only too keen to point out that he is qualified to drive forklifts and cherrypickers, too. In the prop stores are an ex-army Jeep left over from a previous show, and an immersion tank, which has been recycled in Flood.The organisers are tight-lipped about how much of their £32m budget all this is absorbing, but Slung Low are adamant they aren’t creating something so immense simply for the hell of it. Lane and some of his team will live in a small flat in the housing development that surrounds the dock for the duration of the festival. Rehearsing intensively with volunteers, they will aim to bring a touch of the “hyper-local” approach that they have pioneered in Leeds, where they have created a performance space-cum-residency called the Hub in the city’s Holbeck district, offering dormitory facilities for visiting theatre-makers and pay-what-you-can performances. Slung Low is unusual among theatre companies in practising the politics it preaches, paying anyone who works with the team, freelancers or permanent staff, the same salary of £500 per week.With participatory, community-based theatre all the rage in the UK, there has been controversy about whether amateur actors deserve to be paid, too. What’s Lane’s perspective? He argues that, with Slung Low, it’s a genuine collaboration: the company trains its “citizen performers”, and involves them fully in the process in exchange for their time. But there are complications for the industry as a whole, he suggests: “We need a proper conversation about the process.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I want to make it epic’ … Slung Low artistic director Alan Lane. Photograph: Gary Calton for the ObserverSpeaking of money, I wonder what he thinks about a more awkward fact – that one of the organisations supporting his show about ecological, seaborne disaster is BP, via its role as a major Hull City of Culture sponsor. He seems bullish: “The mealy-mouthed answer is that we’ve been assured that none of the money that comes from BP goes into our project. I suspect that’s bullshit. But not in a million years would Martin ask me to change the content of this because of [the sponsorship].”Hull: city guide to the 2017 UK Capital of Culture He’s also willing to defend BP’s support of the arts, and argues further that, if one takes subsidy from a right-wing government – Slung Low currently gets around £99,000 annually from Arts Council England – there’s no such thing as ethically pure funding. “If BP want to clean their money, I’ll clean it for them. It won’t make any difference for the play.”We head back to Chieftain, where technicians are rigging up an improvised metal frame on the deck for filming. The wind is stiffening and the waves are slopping loudly against the harbour wall. Above us, the sky is the colour of old concrete, with an ominous purplish tinge on the horizon. According to the captain, they might have to wait until first light to head out into the North Sea. “You’ll want to make sure that thingummy you’re sticking on the bow is tied down properly,” he declares. One of the cameramen swallows hard, and asks about lifejackets.Lane has equipped himself with an orange hard hat, and appears to be practising knots. He looks in his element.• Flood Part 1 is at Victoria Dock, Hull, 11–16 April; other dates to be announced.