The Edinburgh Fringe festival kicks off three weeks of mayhem this week as a new generation of comedians jostle for headlines in the hope that the festival’s standup stardust will fall on them. And for once, the buzz is not all about the men. From more established stars such as Alison Thea-Skot, who won five-star reviews for her 2015 show Some Like It Thea-Skot, to 25-year-old Ruby Thomas, who is making her debut, the 2016 Edinburgh Fringe has a decidedly female, very millennial feel.“I was just looking at my Fringe guide and there are so many young women in there,” says 29-year-old actress and comedian Naomi Petersen, who is also making her Edinburgh debut, with a show called I Am Telling You I’m Not Going. “I think it’s a snowball effect – you find yourself surrounded by a lot of female comics and it inspires you to try and do the same. Certainly my role models at the moment are people like Lazy Susan, Massive Dad, Alison Thea-Skot – women around my age who are out there smashing it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elf Lyons says female comics have become more visible thanks to the internet.Twenty-five-year old Elf Lyons, whose new show, Pelican, tackles the complex, combative relationship between mothers and daughters, agrees, adding that what we are seeing is the rise of a generation of standup lovers who want to see their own lives reflected on stage. “There have always been brilliant female comics on the circuit, but now because of the internet we have more ways of seeing them,” she says. “There are more gigs than ever, more competitions than ever, more demand for comedy and more ways for young women to put their work out there. Plus more young people are going to gigs, so there’s an entirely new audience and demographic who want and need to see funny women on stage.”With this new generation has come a new set of subjects to mine for material. The millennial generation is often mocked by those old enough to know better for their concerns about gender and diversity, their obsession with the pressures facing young people today, the way in which they live their lives largely online – yet these subjects also provide fertile ground for shows of many kinds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ruby ThomasThus Petersen tackles agoraphobia and anxiety with a tale of a woman who is unable to leave the theatre she is performing in, while Thomas’s show, Chick, uses a hapless male character to examine the way in which society has judged women through the ages.“There are some slightly insidious statements that lurk around our collective consciousness – the idea that you’re a slut if you’ve slept with x number of men before whatever age, for example – and I really wanted to pick them apart,” says Thomas.Jayde Adams challenges people’s preconceptions of young, working-class women, focusing on her relationship with her sister, who died of a brain tumour, while spinning a story of competitive disco dancing, working in Asda and body issues in a piece called simply Jayde Adams: 31. “Because I’m working class, people often don’t find me threatening or they dismiss me,” she says. “But I’ve never felt intellectually threatened by anyone and part of my act is getting people to laugh while making the bigger points.”This is a generation who have grown up sharing intimate details of their lives in public spaces, which means the painful honesty often demanded by the standup format is not so much of a reach.“All the material in Pelican is true because in order to do a good show I need to sail close to the wind and not be afraid of crunching through the horrid stuff,” says Lyons. “Audiences don’t like being mollycoddled; they want you to talk to them straight up. That said, the one thing that is nerve-racking is the way I’m portraying my mum, the fact I’m putting her in the public sphere for the audience to interpret and judge is pretty scary [but] I liked the challenge of ‘how do you do an honest and funny show about your mum that you know she will see that won’t sever the relationship in the process’.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jordan Raskopoulos of Sydney-based trio Axis of Awesome says people are more willing to open their minds when they’re laughing.Jordan Raskopoulos, who performs as part of longstanding Fringe favourites The Axis of Awesome agrees that it is often the more personal details that resonate most. When she came out as a trans woman earlier this year with a video titled What Happened To Jordan’s Beard, the response was overwhelming. “It’s absolutely true that comedy can allow you to tackle big issues. Humour is disarming and people are more willing to open their minds when they’re laughing,” she says. “I received a comment on one of our videos from someone who admitted to being prejudiced towards trans people in the past and had come to change his mind after engaging with our work. The fact that that happened, and he felt safe to express that publicly, blew me away.”Yet for all the sense that the standup world is changing – Thomas cites the proliferation of American female standups from Amy Schumer to Kate McKinnon as an inspiration – it still remains something of an uphill battle.“I do believe you sometimes have to work harder initially as a female comic to get people on side,” Petersen says. “Nobody ever assumes a male comedian won’t be funny when he comes on stage, but I think that’s ingrained in a lot of people when they watch women.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alison Thea-Skot won five-star reviews for her 2015 Edinburgh showRaskopoulos agrees, adding: “Transition has given me a massive perspective on some of the inequality that exists.” In that sense, the number of young female performers at this year’s Fringe should be seen not as an anomaly but as a sign of better times to come.“We are getting louder and people are smart not to ignore us,” says Lyons. “Like a huge storm, there’s all this rage building up and coming from all around the world. It’s leading to all these voices and different performers coming on stage, getting angry and being funny in the process and people are going, ‘Yes, this is what we need’.”