How do we grow up? It’s a good question and one raised at Camden People’s theatre last weekend in a piece created by five primary school children with the theatre company Gameshow and director Emily Lim. Grown Up explores the gap between what we tell our children and what they really want to know. On one hand that might be as simple as how often adults fart (quite a lot apparently), but it extends to more philosophical ideas around regrets, memories and letting the past go.In many ways Grown Up is the inverse of Chris Goode’s Monkey Bars , for which children were interviewed by adults about their lives, with their words then delivered on stage by professional adult actors. There are echoes too of Tim Etchells’ That Night Follows Day, in which children spoke back the truisms so often uttered by grownups. Those works had a high level of absurdity, and so does Grown Up: each of the children struggles into adult-sized clothing and speaks the words of one of five unidentified grownups with a touching solemnity.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joyful … Men and Girls Dance by Fevered Sleep. Photograph: Karen RobinsonIt’s instructive not just about what children consider important but also because it reminds us how often we view children as mini-adults. The way that the children perform without a trace of self-consciousness or any hint of cuteness shows they are living not in the past or the future, as some of the grownups they quote so clearly do, but entirely in the moment. It makes for something surprisingly charged.Children are increasingly taking over our stages, working alongside professional theatre makers, and the results are often invigorating, challenging our expectations of both childhood and performance. Earlier this summer, the London international festival of theatre brought The Hamilton Complex to London’s Unicorn theatre. That extraordinary show featured a group of pre-pubescent girls – suspended between childhood and adulthood, knowingness and innocence – who shared the stage with a male bodybuilder. They ran circles around him.“Are there any paedophiles here today?” asked one of the girls, her eyes scouring the audience like searchlights. There is no direct challenge like that in Men and Girls Dance, a moving and exhilarating show created over a two-week residency by Fevered Sleep, in which a group of untrained young girls perform with five professional dancers whose hairy maleness is constantly exaggerated when seen alongside the girls’ fragile physicality. But Fevered Sleep’s show is no less honest, as it explores what we in the audience are watching and how we might interpret what we see.Men & Girls Dance: the show fighting paranoia around child abuse Men and Girls Dance excavates both the self-consciousness of performance and the self-consciousness that arises when you think that others may be judging you while you are looking at something. Co-director David Harradine experienced that himself at a public bonfire event, when he became acutely aware that, as a solitary male watching a group of young boys chase each other, his interest in them could easily be misconstrued.Men and Girls is brave and exquisitely beautiful in the way it confronts all of this head-on with honesty, and keeps challenging the idea that contact between adults and children is suspect. In the opening moments, it playfully raises the monsters that lurk in our suspicious minds through a creature fashioned from acres of newsprint. This is a show that leads us gently on a journey from a place of suspicion to a place where we recognise – because we can see it in every action, every step, every tender touch – what is gained by everyone when adults and children dance, interact and play together. It genuinely bubbles with laughter as it shows us grownups and children taking each other seriously and investing each other with trust and mutual respect.At the end, children and adults stand side by side at the front of the stage and look out at us with a steady gaze. They have banished the monsters, and made us see something different: the joy. It’s touching, in every way.