Timothy Garton Ash is right to call for a decent “national” anthem for the English (England can be true to itself, if liberals reclaim patriotism, 15 April). His suggestion of Jerusalem, at least in its current form, cannot go unchallenged. The original Blake lyrics are stirring and inspirational. But Garton Ash concedes that they are fundamentally inaccurate, referring to the “Holy Lamb of God” as an epithet for Christ in a country where today practising Christians are in a small minority. They offer a benighted religion-riven city as a metaphor for a utopia. The number in Britain who describe themselves as Christians at all, or of other religions, is a slender majority or even an overall minority, and declining according to latest census figures.La Marseillaise, Flower of Scotland and Land of my Fathers are not only stirring tunes in contrast to the musically dismal God Save the Queen, but also notable for their non-religious content. The English anthem must be secular in order to allow those who wish to sing for England to express themselves with sincerity, whether they profess Christianity, any other religion or none. Republicans, also a reasonably sized minority, would argue that it should contain no reference to the monarchy.It may be possible to retain the glorious Parry tune and orchestration of Jerusalem, though it was written to Blake’s lyrics. Perhaps something rousing in 4/4 time for a change.Chris LeylandMarsden, West Yorkshire• Timothy Garton Ash rightly worries about conservative claims to Englishness, but his call for the left to take up the flag of St George seems the wrong answer. If we want to strengthen left attachments to place, why choose the arbitrary contours of England? Yes, some of us currently live there, but there are other, better candidates for progressive place-based solidarities – cities which have traditions and identities as culturally open, diverse, social justice innovators; rural districts where ecological and alternative economic practices thrive. Such places aren’t politically pure and bear reactionary legacies also, but they are places where radical activities have been done prolifically in their name. Or we might look to other kinds of created or imagined spaces: the North Sea transnational “rim” and other international sea-centred geographies, or the spaces of diaspora that connect people living at a distance.It is striking that Garton Ash’s examples of “our” English heritage are all white and Christian. If we are going to reimagine England, why not centre on its waves of migration, and definitely come up with a new secular flag.Davina CooperLondon• Timothy Garton Ash calls for William Blake’s Jerusalem as England’s national anthem, without xenophobia and Euroscepticism. It is a sentiment with which Hubert Parry, composer of the Jerusalem music, would surely concur. Parry was a progressive and an internationalist. He was approached during the first world war to compose Jerusalem for the use of the Fight for Right movement, which was supposed to be about spiritual ideals, but which turned jingo. Parry resigned from it and instead allowed Jerusalem to be the anthem of the women’s suffrage movement (of which he was a keen supporter).Several years earlier, the composer had set Aristophanes’ anti-war play The Acharnians to music, doing so with a satirical dig at what he called “patriotic effusions”, such as Rule, Britannia! The composer of Jerusalem hated nationalism. Blake’s words with Parry’s music would be perfect as a (progressive) national anthem for England.Duncan MarlorMatlock, Derbyshire• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com