In Kanye West’s wave of tweets attacking Wiz Khalifa today, the superstar rapper reflected on his body mass index, the popularity of tight denim and, importantly, the nature of distraction: “You have distracted from my creative process,” he wrote.  Kanye West takes on Wiz Khalifa. Photograph: Twitter As he so often does, Kanye has made me think. I don’t have imagined slights from rival rappers to take my mind off the important things I have to do, but this tweet in particular prompted me to take stock of all the other things that have distracted me from my creative process today.They are as follows:TwitterGoogling “history of skinny jeans” to see if Kanye West did indeed pave the way for Wiz Khalifa (he didn’t)Reading the Wikipedia page of Wiz Khalifa and discovering that users decided he died today (he didn’t – it’s since been corrected)  Wiz Khalifa: not dead. Photograph: WikipediaWondering if it was Kanye himself who tweeted all of this (probably? I don’t know. I mean, who else would have done it? We’ll probably never know. But maybe one day we’ll know? How will we come to know?)Checking if Kanye numbered all of his painstakingly numbered tweets correctly (he did)Looking out of the windows in my officeWondering about the punctuation of Kanye’s tweets (why is the spacing weird? Is he trying to tell us something I don’t understand?)Staring distractedly at the faces of coworkers and then suddenly making eye contact and then quickly looking away and then worrying for the rest of the day that they’ll think that I was staring because of deep love/deep hatredWondering whether I can love Kanye when he’s throwing such offensive misogynistic insults towards Amber RoseThinking about a text from my mum asking if I am alive after the winter storm that hit the east coast at the weekend      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mum texts. Photograph: Mona Chalabi's phoneSearching for the meaning of “the side of your neck” and discovering that it means “lying for effect”. Also discovering this charming number by Cameo that makes me want to start playing the saxophone again   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Wondering where my saxophone is in my mum’s house. Wondering how good I might be right now if I had continued to play. Wondering if playing the saxophone might in fact have helped my creative processChecking whether bro or bruh is the most common spelling (it’s bro)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bro v bruh. Photograph: GoogleWondering what Kim Kardashian-West makes of all this (She probably isn’t very interested)Needing to go to the bathroom but wondering if I can hold it in until I’m finished writing this (I can, I hope) Suddenly discovering halfway through writing this that Kanye regrets his tweets and will be taking them down “cause it’s all about positive energy blessings blessings positive energy blessings” and wondering why I’ve spent the last 30 minutes writing this rather than doing other, more creative, things ...