In a way, it makes sense that James Corden’s Late Late Show is coming to Sky next month. But in another way, it makes absolutely no sense whatsoever.James Corden's Late Late Show coming to Sky Let’s begin with sense. James Corden is a known quantity over here. He’s a beloved presenter, an award-winning actor and a writer of distinction. The man is a household name. And Sky is a great fit for him, because he’s already a face of the company. Thanks to his six years spent presenting A League of Their Own, Corden has gained an inbuilt fanbase who could quite easily transition to the new show without a great deal of persuasion.Plus, let’s not forget Carpool Karaoke. Videos of Corden singing behind the wheel with Adele and Justin Bieber and Jennifer Lopez have gained so many millions of views that it now feels genuinely ubiquitous. It’s a hot property, and it’s part of The Late Late Show, so Sky is sensible to get onboard with it.But most importantly of all, as far as I’m concerned, The Late Late Show is the programme that’s done most to convert me to James Corden. I used to have such a hard time seeing the point of him. I found him ambitious and hard to trust. He was obsequious, too eager to laugh loudest and longest at anyone he wanted to impress. No matter what he did, I had him down as too exhausting and try-hard for my tastes.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Late Late Show, however, has managed to kick most of these tendencies out of him. The toll of creating and producing a new hour of entertainment each night has forced him to relax and allow more of his real personality – as opposed to the irritating bucket of affectations that came before – out into the wild. His interviews are breezy and freewheeling. His relationship with bandleader Reggie Watts is developing far beyond anything else on US late night television and, surprisingly, the programme is making him a better actor. Forget Carpool Karaoke, the semi-regular Late Late Show segments where he feigns an overblown tantrum are some of the best things he’s ever done. It’s a good programme. You should watch it. I watch it regularly.And this is why the news makes no sense. I already watch The Late Late Show with James Corden. I watch it almost every day, online, in the little five-minute clips posted to YouTube the morning after broadcast. I watch it this way because they’re fun and diverting, and almost the perfect length to watch at your desk with a sandwich before getting back to work.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If the only method of consumption involved logging into my Sky account and putting aside a full hour every single day to watch it, then I wouldn’t have discovered The Late Late Show. An hour? A full hour every day, to watch James Corden cackle and gurn his way through interviews with people I don’t recognise, as part of a show intended to be broadcast at one o’clock in the morning? Who would do that to themselves? Who could possibly hate themselves that much? That’s five hours a week. That’s almost a full day every month that I have to put aside in order watch James bloody Corden goon about like a gonk, softening his Ts in a too-dark studio. That sounds awful.It’s different in America, where there’s a 50-year tradition of daily late night programming. But over here there’s nothing of the sort. Graham Norton tried it with V Graham Norton in 2002, but that series collapsed in an exhausted, unwatched mess 18 months later. And whenever we’ve tried importing the big US nightly shows – Conan, Letterman, even The Daily Show – they have failed almost instantaneously. We simply don’t have the culture for this sort of thing.So it’s great news that James Corden is getting the chance to air The Late Late Show over here. Nobody will watch it, but it’s still great news.