It was announced earlier today that Vine, the six-second video application favored among tweens and time-wasters alike, will be shutting down in the coming months. Now owned by Twitter and launched in 2013, Vine dominated pop culture for a short window of time thanks to its bite-size videos with a penchant for randomness, from silly pranks to comedic skits, and in recent years no doubt faded from mainstream relevance. However, no industry was more impacted by Vine’s reach, for better or for worse, than the music business. Much like YouTube, Vine served as a launchpad for a variety of artists who were plucked from obscurity and catapulted into worldwide fame, and without the fan power of the app might still be stuck in their bedrooms. Shawn Mendes: is the Vine sensation the next Justin Bieber? Pop star Shawn Mendes, a staple of the Hot 100 whose most recent entry is the peppy Treat You Better, was just another 15-year-old Canadian high schooler when on a lark he Vined a cover of a Justin Bieber song. “When I woke up the next morning, the video had about 10,000 likes and Re-Vines. The fact that so many people responded to it freaked me out,” Mendes told the New York Observer last year. “After a couple of weeks, I had over 100,000 followers and I was like, this is something real.” Real indeed, as Mendes quickly capitalized on his exploding fanbase and today is signed to Island Records, alongside pop heavyweights Nick Jonas and Tove Lo. Ruth B, coincidentally another young Canadian (Edmonton, Alberta, to be exact), has a similar story. While in high school, she downloaded the app during its heyday and posted a video of her improvising a six-second ode to Peter Pan. “It got such a huge reaction with so many likes and that had never happened to me before,” she told the Guardian earlier this year. “It inspired me to keep going because the majority of the comments were, ‘We want to hear more of this!’” Ruth wound up posting a variety of additional videos that all added up to a completed song, and the track that became of it, Lost Boy, later morphed into chart-topping radio hit.Ruth B: six seconds about Peter Pan that made her a star However successful, Mendes and Ruth serve as exceptions to the rule, as Vine is a virtual graveyard of stalled careers for artists who never managed to translate their success beyond the application. Mendes, smartly, chose to put his Vine at a distance at a certain point, choosing instead to focus on solo shows as opposed to participating in what became known as magcons. (Short for meet and greet conventions, it was a phenomenon that meant to cash in on the success of Vine’s tween fans to meet their favorite stars.) Others who solely relied on Vine saw their singing careers peter out once the application fell out of favor. It’s worth noting that Mendes’s feed as of late is void of original content and instead full or promo for his latest release.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Though it wasn’t only artists who were launched into fame and fortune thanks to the application. Lest we forget the Harlem Shake phenomenon in 2013, which was powered in part by fan videos posted on Vine. A dance to Bobby Shmurda’s Hot Nigga went viral largely thanks to the application the next year. However, despite its first couple years of cultural relevance, as time chugged on following its splashy launch, its interface was soon suffocated by the sheer amount of content due to a number of celebrity viners. The massive crowd all begging for attention, likes and re-vines not only muffled their own respective voices, but effectively killed the use of Vine as what it was originally intended, a social media platform to post silly videos for your friends.Maybe the question isn’t what kind of hole Vine leaves, but if it will leave any hole at all. Talent, by and large, will always rise to the top, whether it be on Vine, YouTube, Instagram or whatever the next flavor of the month social media platform is. Vine served as the perfect vehicle to deliver a viral fad – perhaps fitting, considering that Vine itself turned out to be the fad after all.