It’s 98 degrees and William H Macy is melting. We’re in a cafe in Studio City, at the east end of California’s San Fernando Valley, and the actor is talking about coming towards the end of his yearly stint shooting Shameless, the US remake of the British show.“Yesterday I was in Pasadena,” he says, “and it was 104 degrees. We did three exterior scenes in a row. I was wearing sneakers and jeans, thermal underwear, then a flannel shirt, then a hoodie, then my jacket, then my big giant fake-wool muffler, right? Because it was supposed to be Chicago in the winter. It was brutal. I have a $100 bet with some of the crew that when we do the other half of those scenes in actual Chicago, it’ll be the hottest day in Chicago history. So I’ll burn alive – twice!”Macy looks well, though, much better than he did when I interviewed him in 1998. Back then, he was still the clean-shaven, nervous, only newly famous and newly married guy who’d just played Jerry Lundegaard in Fargo, the role that catapulted him to fame after years on stage and TV. We somehow ate and drank for four hours. Today, he has the raggedy, hairy look of his Shameless character Frank Gallagher, and it suits him, strengthening the famously awkward, jowly face that got him cast as so many “beautiful losers” (avoid that term in his presence) in the 1990s and beyond. Wearing a crisp white shirt over a white T-shirt, he looks the very picture of a trim and healthy Californian in his 60s.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Macy in Blood Father.We’re here to talk about Blood Father, a violent Mel Gibson revenge drama in which Macy plays Mel’s trailer-park neighbour and Alcoholics Anonymous sponsor. Gibson is busy protecting his wayward daughter from gangsters she’s been associating with; there is, as one expects from a Gibson project, a good deal of bloodletting.Gibson looks terrifying, I say, pumped up and fully bearded, like he’s just stepped out of a wild west wanted poster. “I had a start when I first saw him,” Macy says, with widening eyes. “He’s built like a tank – he’s in such great shape, his eyes, arms all buffed like … he’s Mel Gibson, man! He’s the best Mel Gibson I’ve ever seen.” He laughs. “And by a lot! Nobody does it better!”Blood Father is a good, old-fashioned drive-in thriller and Gibson is amazing in it, raw, furious, burning with anger and vengeance. But he still manages to leave room for scene-stealer Macy, who has the kind of role that actors working in long-running TV dramas find they have to fight for during their down time. Macy has expressed disdain for serial character work in films: the chasing (though he has to do less of that these days) and just the sheer hassle of standing around miles from home, waiting an eternity for new camera set-ups and then delivering a few seconds of actual acting. TV has been such a blessing. I'm pretty sure my family are happy to have me home. Uh, pretty sure “I’m not so rabid about getting something going in each hiatus any more,” he says. “First of all, I’m always knackered. I’m gonna need a long lie down after shooting all of this. It’s not nothing, shooting a lot of TV in a very short time, and Shameless has lots of drama, farce and energy. But really, TV has been such a blessing for me. The aforementioned staying at home. I’m pretty sure my family are happy to have me home.” He chuckles. “Uh, pretty sure.”He would even go as far as to say TV has been his salvation, especially at his age. Now 66, he’s been on Shameless since he was 58, and loves being able to drive his teenage kids to school every day. The uprooting process of heading to movie locations in different states, or even continents, is largely a thing of the past. He’s been married to fellow actor Felicity Huffman since 1997 and, every morning as he heads off to Shameless, she’s getting ready for her own TV show, American Crime, now shooting its third season (before that it was Desperate Housewives). Evidently, there is some serious life-work balance in the household.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘He’s never really hurt anyone – well, not badly’ … as Frank Gallagher in the US Shameless.“I love the fact that I work every day,” he says, with that beatific look of his. “This may sound pretentious, but I am getting better at what I do every day. There is nothing like practice. In the feature film world, there’s so much waiting around and then it’s zero-to-60. Then you grind to a halt all, then it’s zero-to-60. But on TV I’m acting a lot, every day.”I wonder what it’s like to live with a character for as long as he has lived with Frank Gallagher, an indefensible monster half the time, a wayward alcoholic conman and professional layabout. “Well, first of all, I don’t have to defend Frank. Second, define ‘monster’.” Suddenly Macy has shaken off the torpor.“You see my drift? I could do this all day. I love him. He’s hard-working, let’s give him that. There’s a party wherever he goes. He’s never really hurt anyone badly – well, not too badly. He’s entrepreneurial, he’s living his passion. His raison d’être is to not work. It hasn’t been easy over the years, but he’s learned, and he has never worked.” A slightly menacing tone, straight from one of Frank’s crueller hangovers, has emerged. “I fuckin’ love him. I’m his best friend. He doesn’t have many friends, just me.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for Blood FatherWe talk a while about the US election, how Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump – though very different – might have finally broken the tradition of mealy-mouthed, say-nothing political rhetoric. “Sanders was so straightforward,” says Macy. “Ask him a question, he’ll answer it. And give Trump his due: when he talks, he does, unlike most politicians, reveal some of himself. I mean, there’s not much thought behind what he says – and it’s horrifying what he’s revealing – but I pray this changes the bar for conventional politicians, because nothing annoys me more than obfuscating speech and not answering a question, not copping to it honestly. Maybe that’ll be different.”Since Trump seems to wish upon us a return to some kind of an imaginary paradise from the past, I ask Macy, as we part, which era he would go back to. “I think 1971,” he says, and I expect him to mention his old theatre days with the likes of David Mamet and Joe Mantegna. But no, he doesn’t see the old gang much any more. “We’ve all gone our own ways,” he says. “For me, it would be all about what cars came out that year, no doubt about it.”Then he lowers himself into his nifty vintage Porsche and, with that big Macy smile, drives off into the sun.Blood Father is out now in the US, released in the UK on 7 October.