Donald Trump has proved a gift to TV satirists and would, surely, be the perfect antihero of a musical with plenty of razzle-dazzle. But for now, how is American theatre responding to the age of Donald Trump?Tony Kushner on Trump's proposed arts cuts: 'It's an appalling idea' Playwright Robert Schenkkan is one of the first out of the blocks with Building the Wall, which imagines the 45th president’s policies resulting in the mass roundup and incarceration of millions of undocumented immigrants.But there are also less direct, more oblique takes on Trump. Lynn Nottage’s Sweat, which opened last month on Broadway, takes place in the kind of left-behind, America-isn’t-so-great town in Pennsylvania where the Republican resonated. Shows, such as Hamilton – Immigrants (We Get the Job Done) – and A Raisin in the Sun, a landmark examination of race relations, can be seen afresh through the Trump prism. In short, everything has been re-politicised.Now Fun Home comes to the National Theatre on Washington’s Pennsylvania Avenue, a street address it shares with both the White House and the Trump International Hotel, for a month-long run starting on Tuesday. A winner of five Tony awards, it was the first Broadway musical to feature a lesbian protagonist, placing it squarely and inevitably in America’s cultural wars.It arrives in the US capital just as Trump has nominated Tennessee state senator Mark Green as army secretary. Activists accuse Green of calling for states to refuse to issue marriage licences to same-sex couples and describing being transgender as a “disease”. His predecessor, Eric Fanning, was the first openly gay leader of a branch of the US military.Sam Gold, director of Fun Home, says: “One of the things that’s really moving is to see young women come see the show and identify themselves in the material. Young women bringing parents and talking about their coming out experience and having an opportunity to process parent-child relationships.“We did it when a lot of marriage equality laws were being passed, and it was so exciting to be doing a show about that subject while that was happening politically. But on the other hand I think there’s many moments where Fun Home will come in handy because Fun Home is a very deep show. It’s going to have political implications in many places and times because of its depth.”The musical is an adaptation of a graphic memoir – subtitled “a family tragicomic” with illustrations, captions and speech bubbles – in which author Alison Bechdel, whose family ran a funeral home (the “fun home” of the title) in rural Pennsylvania, gradually learns that both she and her father are gay. Ms magazine opined: “If Vladimir Nabokov had been a lesbian feminist graphic novelist, he might have produced something like this witty, erudite memoir.”The stage version has been praised for its exploration of memory as three actors portray the central character: as a child, a college student and an adult cartoonist, often on stage at the same time. Gold, 38, says: “I was so fascinated with that unique storytelling form, a musical, which is a very linear form, that was inspired by a graphic novel which tells information in multiple ways simultaneously.”On a national tour, the production has visited Trump-voting states, such as Iowa, Missouri and Ohio. It played in Durham, North Carolina, where in 2015 student Brian Grasso of Duke University wrote in the Washington Post that, as a Christian, he refused to read Fun Home because “the book includes cartoon drawings of a woman masturbating and multiple women engaging in oral sex … in the Bible, Jesus forbids his followers from exposing themselves to anything pornographic”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alessandra Baldacchino as Small Alison, Pierson Salvador as Christian, and Lennon Nate Hammond as John in Fun Home, making its Washington DC premiere Photograph: Joan MarcusNorth Carolina is also the scene of a “bathroom bill” that restricts the public bathrooms transgender people are allowed to use. Gold reflects: “I think we’re especially excited to see it play in cities that don’t have a lot of stories like this where maybe it will be the first queer character they see on stage. How exciting that we can bring this story to places where we’re exposing audience to identities that they’re not going to get at every show they go see.”But Fun Home, which made its debut off Broadway four years ago, is not didactic and does not wear liberal politics on its sleeve. “It does deal with issues of coming out and homosexuality and being in the closet, but also in a sort of wider way, in really just speaks to parents and children.“The experience of watching it is very specific, but it touches on things that are universal about growing up and becoming who you are and the relationship that puts you in with your parent, or as a parent what it’s like to see your child individuate like that.”Last November’s election result was an earthquake in the reliable liberal bastions of Broadway and Hollywood. The cast of Hamilton memorably expressed their anxieties to Vice-President Mike Pence after a performance he attended, while Hillary Clinton has received standing ovations at Broadway shows. Trump has declared his intent to slash the National Endowment for the Arts.The celebrity billionaire delivered his election victory speech at a New York hotel just before 3am on 9 November. Gold watched it on TV, grabbed some sleep and five hours later went to rehearse Othello with lead actors Daniel Craig and David Oyelowo. “I was really happy that I was going to rehearsal that morning, and I was really happy to be in a room full of artists who were all really galvanised to make work,” he recalls.“It’s not a contemporary political play, so I don’t feel a particular need to respond with plays about Jared Kushner or anything, but I think getting into a room with Shakespeare was an extremely cathartic place to put my feelings about the administration.”Beyond Hamilton: five shows Pence and Trump should see together Gold, who became a director in his early 20s – “I wasn’t a very good actor” – and is married to playwright Amy Herzog, has more Shakespeare up his sleeve. “The next play I direct is Hamlet [starring Oscar Isaac] which is the prototypical play about fighting fascism. It’s the play that’s often used to have conversations about corrupt regimes and I’m going to do Hamlet with no reference to contemporary American politics – Claudius will have nothing to do with Trump, it’s nowhere near my production – but man, getting to spend some time with that production right now is very motivating and very cathartic.“I hope it will be a place for the audience to commune with thoughts and feelings in all sorts of ways that are not as topical as a response to Trump in that cause and effect way, but in the deeper way of how theatre has a way of getting into some big and messy feelings.”Just as racial apartheid led to some of South Africa’s greatest protest art, and Margaret Thatcher triggered a wide and deep response from British creatives, it is not hard to imagine that the Trump years will be galvanising for oppositional works both on the nose and more metaphorical.Gold adds: “I think it’s made the whole community feel braver about making work that pushes people harder and gives voice to subject matter and to people that we can see being silenced under this administration. The second he was elected, the theatre community got energy and it’s a really great thing that we have a place to put our anger and our fear.”Fun Home runs at the National Theatre in Washington from 18 April to 13 May. For more information, visit thenationaldc.com or FunHomeMusical.com.