PJ O’Rourke has long been a certain kind of leftwing woman’s secret libertarian crush. The Republican on the bookshelf between Chomsky and Žižek. The kind of guy wheeled out to counter the whole schtick that all rightwingers are as funny as Darth Vader and as pretty as Chewbacca.Crumpled, rumpled, charming, chaotic, funny, clever, O’Rourke is best known for his humourous political books: Give War a Chance (1992), Republican Party Reptile (1987) and Parliament of Whores (1991).His prime decades were the freewheeling 80s and the boring, peaceful, Clintonesque 90s. At 68, his humour is that of a Waspy, Connecticut Benny Hill (“A woman should dress to attract attention. To attract the most attention, a woman should either be nude or wearing something as expensive as getting her nude is going to be”), which puts him on the wrong side of history.The Baby Boom review – PJ O'Rourke mounts a less than convincing defence of the blessed generation But history has thrown a bit of a curveball – as history is wont to do. His beloved Republican party is in the hands of a “reptile”, the Tories in Britain are sealing themselves off from the sort of worldly, globe-trotting mindset that O’Rourke has always shared, and the whole notion of conservatism is being remade by fear.In this febrile, uncertain world, O’Rourke also finds himself in the weird position of endorsing a Democrat: Hillary Clinton.“It’s the second-worst thing that can happen to this country,” he said of her potential presidency in May. “But she’s way behind in second place. I mean, she’s wrong about absolutely everything, but she’s wrong within normal parameters.”Of Donald Trump, he has said: “I mean, this man just can’t be president. They’ve got this button, you know, in the briefcase. He’s going to find it.” Someone who lived between world war one and world war two would say this year is the comic versionPJ O'Rourke But don’t think that the writer and humorist has mellowed into a bleeding heart in his old age. He believes the current ills of the world – including Brexit and the Trump candidacy – can be placed at the feet of those leftwing princelings, the “elites”.So the right is right, and the left is wrong – as it has been in PJ’s world all along.Guardian Australia spoke to O’Rourke on the eve of his Australian speaking tour. “The rise of populism all over the globe in its various manifestations … might seem like a good thing – an international revolt against the elites,” he says. “They [the elites] have been very naughty – and they have it coming to them. We have a situation in the Middle East that is utterly out of control, that has resulted in an immigration crisis in Europe that is also out of control. We have a flabby comeback from the great recession – and we have a Russia and China asserting themselves quite unpleasantly and out of check.”And that is just the start.“There’s Brexit and Putin – it’s not just Trump – one could argue that the totalitarian drift of the Chinese government is part of it. And then there’s that jerk that was elected head of Philippines,” he says of Rodrigo Duterte.O’Rourke believes that the “elites are one of the contributing factors” in this new populism. “We also have a very rapidly changing economic landscape – it’s changing in unpredictable ways. Any type of technological change is disturbing – the industrial revolution was more linear than what’s going on now.”He believes that the chaos – unleashed by elites – has resulted in “ordinary people” turning to demagogues.“It’s a deeply confusing time for people. Globalisation – while providing a net good, has diffuse benefits. The problems that it causes are concentrated and easily seen – and the benefits are the incremental – such as lowering the prices of consumer goods. It’s a disturbed period – so then you have the comical situation where someone like Trump rises.”For a humourist, political watcher and journalist, 2016 must feel like a vintage year – albeit a bitter one.O’Rourke is sanguine – he’s seen manifestations of this before.“I’ve seen times like 2016 before and it was a good thing – the fall of the communist bloc was more amazing and more positive than what we are seeing now. But now, in terms of what’s going on around the globe – all at the same time – this year would be the big bad trend of my lifetime.”He pauses and reconsiders his answer. “Actually, I suppose someone who lived between world war one and world war two would say this is the comic version.”Although O’Rourke is speaking to me while stuck in traffic somewhere south of Brisbane, he’s gathering steam, “With Trump – please don’t play the Hitler card – he’s more like Evita [the Argentinian first lady Eva Perón].Is he scared of Trump?“I am scared of Trump in two ways. This office of the president has too much power. And then putting a lunatic in power … he’s just a fool – incredibly shallow and a liar – he’s not even that successful, not even that rich. There’s nothing predictable about him. When you have the outsized power of the president, that unpredictability is unacceptable.”As for the conservatives on the other side of the pond, O’Rourke is more generous.“Boris [Johnson] is unpredictable – and rogue – but Boris is well likable and well read – he is in fact a thoughtful person. And he was a very good mayor of London.”Brexit occurred because of fear about immigration, he says.PJ O'Rourke: 'Menus have become another intelligence test at which I fail' “I think they [British people] looked with honest fear at the chaos at that point in France and Germany and said if we don’t sever ourselves from Europe, next time we’ll be in for that sort of stuff [terrorism]. It’s not all Pakistani dentists.”A traditional curse – “may you live in interesting times” – is true for almost everywhere right now, except Australia – reckons O’Rourke. He was following the Australian election campaign but got kind of bored, and sort of drifted off, only to wake up and find that Australia had sort of voted Malcolm Turnbull back in.“Thank your lucky stars it is boring. You are still operating in a narrow bandwidth of disagreement – so stay there. I did try and follow the election and I must say I did get bored, but that was all right – it was a happy boredom.” • PJ O’Rourke will appear at the Centre for Independent Studies in Melbourne on Wednesday, 3 August; Byron Bay writers’ festival from 5 to 7 August; and the Sydney Opera House on 9 August 