Netflix’s chief content officer, Ted Sarandos, has criticized figures released by NBC that purported to show audience numbers for some of the streaming company’s original series. Adam Sandler's The Ridiculous 6 triumphs on Netflix On a Wednesday, in a presentation at the Television Critics Associational winter press tour in Pasadena, NBC Universal head of research Alan Wurtzel revealed estimated viewership information for several of Netflix’s buzzy original shows that premiered during the fall. According to findings from analytics company Symphony Advanced Media (SAM), Marvel’s Jessica Jones averaged 4.8 million viewers between the ages of 18 and 49 in the first 35 days after its November debut; Master of None had 3.9 million such viewers during a similar time window; and Narcos attracted 3.2 million viewers in that demographic.Netflix, however, has never publicly disclosed viewership figures for any of its individual series.“Ratings have no specific impact on [our] business,” Sarandos said at Sunday’s Netflix TCA panel.“Unlike every presenter you’ve seen here this week, you can cancel Netflix with a click. I do think that once we give a number for a show, every show will be benchmarked off that figure. That puts a lot of creative pressure on talent that I don’t want to.” Asked to respond NBC’s findings, Sarandos said: “There’s a couple of mysteries in play for me. One is, why would NBC use their lunch slot with you guys to talk about our ratings? Maybe it’s because it’s more fun than talking about NBC ratings.“The second is, the methodology and the measurement and the data itself doesn’t reflect any sense of reality of anything that we keep track of.“I hope no one’s paying for it,” he added of the data, which he said was “really remarkably inaccurate”. SAM uses audio content recognition to trace cross-platform programming.Sarandos also said that breaking down figures by age demographics was meaningless to Netflix, since unlike NBC it does not carry ads. “I can’t even tell you how many 18-49 year-old members that we have,” said Sarandos. “It means nothing to Netflix.“Those sample sets don’t give you a lot of information when people are watching thousands of shows [on Netflix] around the world. Somewhere in the world, every second of every day, someone is pressing start on a Netflix original … There is not an apples to apples comparison to Netflix-watching and any Nielsen rating.”Beasts of No Nation review – Idris Elba rules in Netflix's impressive move into movies Netflix did break protocol in recent months to reveal performance figures for two original feature films: Beasts of No Nation, which also opened in select theaters, and The Ridiculous 6, which is exclusive to Netflix. Asked why, Sarandos said of Beasts of No Nation that he thought it was important to share that “people were watching that movie around the world in its first week of release on levels that independent film has never seen before”. “In the case of The Ridiculous 6,” he said, “we didn’t release it into theaters at all, and we wanted to give some people the sense that the investment was making sense.”Sarandos said Netflix would have 600 hours of original programming in 2016. He also said the company aimed to spend $6bn on content this year. Netflix currently has 70 million subscribers worldwide.