Another year for Australian cinema, another three dozen films starring Shane Jacobson. Just kidding: he doesn’t even get a mention in the ten titles listed below.The best of 2016 offered a motley array of titles, from heart-wrenching documentaries to the return of a certain dog of a certain colour. The 2017 lineup looks similarly eclectic. Here are ten films to look out for. Sweet Country, director Warwick Thornton Many of us watched director Warwick Thornton’s first feature film Samson & Delilah in cinemas in 2009 and left clutching the walls. His highly anticipated return to the chair is a sun-splotched slice of Australiana, with a bullet: a cowboy drama about a young boy who witnesses an Aboriginal stockman kill a white station owner. Australian westerns are surprisingly hard to come by (The Proposition and western-ish Chips Rafferty films among the best) – even moreso those with an Indigenous flavour. On the guntotin’ heels of last year’s Goldstone, let’s hope this become a trend.Ben Elton: there is no wisdom involved in being massively wealthy Three Summers, director Ben EltonDeborah Mailman, Magda Szubanski and Michael Caton appear in the first Australia-set film from British novelist and veteran crack comedy writer Ben Elton (The Young Ones, Mr Bean, Black Adder etc). The Western Australia-shot Three Summers promises to be a rib tickler set over three years at an Australian music festival. Does that mean we get to see Daryl Kerrigan in rave pants, or Sharon Strzelecki in a mosh pit? Either way, there will be portaloos.Cargo, directors Ben Howling and Yolanda Ramke“It’s not a zombie film!” actor Martin Freeman told the Sydney Morning Herald when asked about his new movie about, erm, a deadly infection that creates a new species of undead. Whatever it is, we’re looking forward to it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin Freeman, who stars in Sherlock and the Office, has been cast in not-zombie-film Cargo – based on the 2013 Tropfest short film of the same name. Photograph: Vittorio Zunino Celotto/Getty ImagesThe 2013 Tropfest short film Cargo may not have won the festival’s top prize – a garish fake fruit bowl – but Hollywood agents offered directors Ben Howling and Yolanda Ramke’s something even better: their own feature film, buoyed by an international star.What tickled tinsel town’s fancy? Perhaps it was the way the young film-makers broke new ground by showing us an undead man with a baby on his back and a bag of bloodied meat connected to a horizontal tree branch stuck to his shoulder. He looked a lot like a zombie but we don’t want to upset Martin; let’s just say he got out of bed on the wrong side.Casting JonBenét, director Kitty GreenAustralian documentarian Kitty Green turned heads with her 2013 film Ukraine is Not a Brothel. Her latest is an American crime story financed by Screen Australia and Film Victoria, about the sensational (and still-unresolved) murder case of six-year-old American beauty queen JonBenét Ramsey.Casting JonBenet will premiere at Sundance and later arrive on the cyber shelves of Netflix (their first acquisition of 2017), who will hoping for a Making a Murder-esque cult following. Flammable Children, director Stephan ElliottWriter/director Stephan Elliott (Priscilla: Queen of the Desert, Welcome to Woop Woop) is up to mischief again – something about setting fire to minors. The film-maker reunites with star Guy Pearce, and pairs him with his former Neighbours co-star Kylie Minogue, for a coming of age period piece based in Dee Why in the mid-70s. There have been promises of surf mats, goon bags and KFC. It’s bloody ‘Straya mate.Glenn Dunks (@glenndunks)Guy Pearce and Kylie Minogue have made a movie together and, well, who can say no to this? No *your* eyes are bugging out. pic.twitter.com/mOmy3ZSbGLJanuary 4, 2017After the Apology, director Larissa BehrendtCould the number of Aboriginal children being removed by welfare agencies actually be higher today than during the time of the Stolen Generation? It’s a shocking proposition – and one that academic, writer and documentarian Larissa Behrendt sadly argues in the affirmative.Behrendt has previously observed a 65% increase in Indigenous child removal rates since Kevin Rudd’s apology in 2008. The 2017 release of After the Apology marks the 20th anniversary of the watershed the Bringing Them Home report. The Nightingale, director Jennifer KentAfter The Babadook: Jennifer Kent's new film tackles Australia's violent colonial history Writer/director Jennifer Kent scared the bejeezus out of everybody with her feature debut The Babadook, the most Babadookian film to ever Babadook. Hollywood came knocking on her door, presuming making all sorts of scary sounds in the dead of night. But Kent apparently asked herself “What would David Lynch do?” – and then found herself for some reason in Tasmania. The Nightingale is based in a particularly brutal chapter of the island state’s history (circa 1829), and follows a revenge-seeking Irish convict as she chases a British soldier through the wilderness. Tassie has been getting some attention on our screens recently, in TV shows The Kettering Incident and Rosehaven, and feature films Lion and A Little Between Oceans. Mystify, director Richard Lowenstein      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Hutchence. Photograph: Newspix/Rex FeaturesThere’s a chance this one won’t arrive until 2018, but we’re including it anyway. There is no a better choice of film-maker to make a documentary about the life of Michael Hutchence than Richard Lowenstein, who directed the late INXS star (also a close friend) in the scuzzy 1986 classic Dogs in Space and helmed the majority of the band’s music videos and concert films. Lowenstein has eked out a compelling body of work as a documentarian, including recently co-directing two fine films with Lynn-Maree Milburn: Autoluminescent: Rowland S Howard, and last year’s surreal, under-watched, part detective story and part biography Ecco Homo.The Berlin Syndrome, director Cate ShortlandThe third feature film of director Cate Shortland (following 2004’s Somersault and 2012’s Lore) has been picked to make its world premiere at this year’s Sundance film festival.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Teresa Palmer in Berlin Syndrome. Photograph: Aquarius FilmsThe Berlin Syndrome is a psychological thriller about an Australian photographer (Teresa Palmer, recently cast as Andrew Garfield’s love interest in Hacksaw Ridge), who gets locked in the apartment of a creepy one night stand (Max Riemelt, from Netflix’s Sense8).Hotel Mumbai, director Anthony MarasStarring alongside Nicole Kidman in Lion, and with another high-profile locally produced drama – Hotel Mumbai – on its way, Dev Patel is quickly approaching “honourary Australian” status. Here he stars alongside Armie Hammer and Tilda Cobham-Hervey as an Indian waiter in this dramatisation of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks on the Taj Mahal hotel: a four-day siege by Islamiist militants that left 160 people dead. First-time feature film-maker Anthony Maras has already scored a coup in the backing of Weinstein Co, which acquired distribution of the film last year. 