Jazz. The very word strikes terror in many hearts. For others, the word is always followed by “Niiiice” and a smirk. That’s my fault. For The Fast Show, I created Louis Balfour, or The Jazzman as he’s affectionately known, whose catchphrase that was. Louis is still my most recognised Fast Show character: through him, we gently lampooned the genre for the full six-year run of the show in the 90s.Not that we ever had any trouble getting musicians to appear. In my experience, musicians have a much better sense of humour than many comedians. We’d use session musicians who were all incredibly good – they had to be, because some of the music Phil Pope wrote for the sketches was really tough. With Louis, I went for a cross between Roger Moore and whispering Bob Harris, while my costume was a tribute to Buddy Rich, the legendary jazz drummer who rocked the polo-neck look. It’s a good jazz look. Charlie Higson would script the scenes and we’d film a whole series’ worth in a single day. You can tell what point we were at by the wig. It was too small and would creep further round the back of my head, so that by the end of the day I looked like Henry V.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘People asked if it was really me playing’ … Thomson drumming in Cold Feet. Photograph: ITV/Big Talk ProductionsStrangers still approach me today and throw a quick “Niiiice” my way, for which the only response has to be “Great!” They walk away beaming, and I’m content that I’ve made their day with one word. Would these people be shocked to hear that I love jazz, that I have done all my life? If you can’t swing, you’ve got no soul. I’d even go so far as to say that a musician who doesn’t like jazz can’t call himself a real musician. It’s where the best players are. If you don’t embrace jazz, its lineage, its history, you’re not a real player.There’s a lot of ignorance surrounding jazz. I like to compare it to the great British staple, curry. Ask some people if they like it and they’ll tell you: “No. I don’t eat spicy food.” And thus, in the same vein: “Do you like jazz?” “No! It’s weird.”Curry, of course, is not just one thing. There are myriad different kinds, something for everyone from vegans to carnivores, from the hottest of vindaloos to the mildest of kormas. And so too jazz.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inspiration … drummer Buddy Rich rocks the polo-neck look. Photograph: Alan Messer/Rex/ShutterstockBut I do have a little sympathy for the uninitiated. When people say “weird”, I get the impression they’ve encountered free jazz, the musical equivalent of Tracey Emin’s bed. The late Tony Wilson, my friend and the boss of Factory Records, said he would never go and see jazz because he couldn’t tolerate the idea of the musicians having a better time than the audience. I laughed at that, but there’s an element of truth to it. This avant garde form of free jazz, with no melodic structure, is what we were parodying in The Fast Show. But there’s much more to jazz than that.I’ve been playing the drums since I was 11. All drummers have to listen to and study other drummers – and I quickly discovered that all the best drummers were jazz musicians. It wasn’t long before I came across the incredible powerhouse that was Buddy Rich, the world’s greatest drummer. He only had to hear a track once and he would be able to phrase it perfectly. He didn’t read music and didn’t practise. He didn’t need to do either. No one could play like he could. His big band were a huge inspiration to me.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Livening up Lyon … Billy Cobham. Photograph: Andrew Putler/RedfernsAt school, we did an exchange trip to Lyon, then a gloomy industrial town where the weather was “mauvais, tous les jours”. I stayed with an extended French family in their small apartment and wasn’t fluent enough to hold down a decent conversation with my hosts, so was often very bored. My saving grace was their vinyl collection. One album stood out: Stanley Clarke’s School Days, from 1976. It’s a masterful album, ending on the incredible Life Is Just a Game – with Billy Cobham, another jazz great, on drums. I listened to it so much that the family presented me with their copy as a leaving gift.Clarke opened my ears. I’ve still got that album. It made me a huge fan of jazz-funk and fusion. I would buy albums and, if a vocal track came on, I’d be disappointed. I still love this music, which sometimes gets referred to as Ceefax jazz or elevator music. I find it very calming, though sometimes I crave a bit more hellfire.  Soon I was on Jonathan Ross, playing drum solos for Phil Collins to identify In the final ever episode of The Fast Show, I actually managed to play drums very briefly – before getting shot by the Boxwell Heath Archery Club. Things ended better in the recent series of Cold Feet, as my character Pete joined his son’s band on stage to play Teenage Kicks. It was a pivotal scene and afterwards there were all these people on social media asking if that was really me playing. My secret was out. Soon, I was on The Jonathan Ross Show – playing drum solos for Phil Collins to identify. The drumming might not be your thing, but there’s so much more to jazz than goatee beards and berets. Frank Sinatra? Michael Bublé? George Benson? All great jazz singers. Give it a go. Then go for a curry and order something different – something, dare I say, spicy? • The London jazz festival runs until 20 November. The sound of cool: John Thomson’s 10 favourite jazz tracksSmells Like Teen Spirit – Paul Anka The Canadian singer’s 2005 album Rock Swings featured big-band versions of some hilariously unlikely pop songs, from Pet Shop Boys to the Cure to the Human League. For this Nirvana makeover, arranger John Clayton borrows heavily from Nelson Riddle’s arrangements for Sinatra to magnificent effect. “That’s the first time I’ve ever heard the fucking words!” said a delighted Dave Grohl to Paul Anka. Body and Soul – Tony Bennett/Amy WinehouseIt’s grimly fitting that Winehouse, who started her singing career fronting the National Youth Jazz Orchestra, made her final recorded appearance on Bennett’s 2011 album Duets II, singing a classic jazz standard. This Grammy-winning track sees Argentine arranger Jorge Calandrelli providing a suitably lush orchestral backing as Bennett and Winehouse trade highly improvisatory four-bar phrases on Johnny Green’s 1930 song.Can’t Buy Me Love – Michael BubléThis Beatles song has been a jazz standard ever since Ella Fitzgerald covered it a couple of months after its release in 1964. This version from Bublé’s 2005 album It’s Time is arranged by Jochem Van Der Saag and features a tremendous walking bass line from Robert Hurst. Give Me the Night – George Benson A major jazz guitarist in the 60s (he plays on Miles Davis’s 1968 LP Miles in the Sky), Benson reinvented himself as a singer in the late 70s. This 1980 single was written by Cleethorpes’ late, great Rod Temperton, produced by Quincy Jones and features assorted jazz heavyweights, including Herbie Hancock and Lee Ritenour. Matinee Idol – YellowJacketsThe Yellowjackets are a long-running jazz-fusion outfit from LA. This track from their 1981 debut album was written by keyboard player Russell Ferrante. Westchester Lady – Bob JamesKeyboard player Bob James found his career rebooted in the early 90s as one of the most sampled musicians in hip-hop history. This 1976 instrumental has been sampled by dozens of acts, including Massive Attack, Dilated Peoples, DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince and United Future Organization.Theme from Bullitt – Lalo SchifrinArgentine composer and pianist Lalo Schifrin recorded dozens of soundtracks to films and TV shows – Mission Impossible, Cool Hand Luke, Jaws, The Man from UNCLE, The Exorcist, all the Dirty Harry movies – but none as iconic as this funky big-band theme to the 1968 Steve McQueen vehicle. The solo acoustic guitar version on the soundtrack is also a killer.Double Steal – Fuse OneFuse One were a jazz-funk supergroup featuring assorted heavyweight musicians who recorded for the CTI label. This track from their 1980 debut is written by Spyro Gyra keyboard player Jeremy Wall and features a stellar cast, including bassist Stanley Clarke, guitarist John McLaughlin and saxophonist Joe Farrell.Beat 70 – Pat Metheny Group Taken from the 1989 album Letter from Home, this Brazilian-themed samba is based on the interplay between Pat Metheny’s FX-laden guitar improvisations and the harmonica-style melody of his keyboard player Lyle Mays.Garden Party – MezzoforteUntil Björk and the Sugarcubes came along, this jazz collective were Iceland’s most famous musical export. Garden Party, from their breakthrough 1982 album, is a jazz-funk fave written by their keyboard player Eythor Gunnarsson.