A Catholic comprehensive school has rebutted claims that it cancelled a visit by a bestselling children’s author at the last minute because she is transgender, saying that teachers had been misinformed about the suitability of her latest book for pre-teens.Last week, Juno Dawson said St Mary’s Catholic high school in Preston had pulled its invitation 48 hours before she was due to speak as part of a promotional tour for her new novel, Margot & Me. The book tells the story of Fliss, who discovers the wartime journal of her grandmother Margot while staying with her in south Wales.Dawson told the Guardian: “I asked [my publisher] why they had cancelled and there was an awkward silence. They said the subject matter was deemed inappropriate.” The author, whose previous books include the acclaimed This Book Is Gay, added: “Margot & Me is probably my tamest book. It is a nice family story set in the second world war.”Prior to the event, which was scheduled for 8 February, the school had heavily publicised the author’s visit with Twitter posts, leaflets and letters to parents. Though Dawson had initially accepted that the cancellation was “just one of those things”, she became incensed after Jake Hope, a consultant who had arranged the visit, phoned the school and was told by the teacher who arranged the event that senior staff had rescinded the invite.“I cannot see how it is the book,” Dawson said. “I can only assume that they meant I am not appropriate.”However, head teacher Martin Reynolds said that the school had been told by the publisher that Margot & Me would be suitable for 11-year-olds. “We have to go on what the publisher tells us, as the books often haven’t been published when we book visits,” he said.When the school’s literacy coordinator read a copy of Margot & Me before the event and “realised it contains some complex themes, including castration and ‘corrective’ rape [intended to change someone’s sexuality]”, a team including Reynolds decided staff should spend more time considering the book. “We felt that our parents would want us to exercise caution and to study the themes more carefully before inviting an author to speak,” he said.In an interview with Buzzfeed, Hope alleged that when he called the school, offers of future alternative events with Dawson were all rebuffed. But Reynolds said that because Dawson was currently on a book tour, “we knew there would be no flexibility in changing the date of Juno’s visit so were forced to postpone it”.“We do think the issues faced by the transgender community are extremely relevant and important for all young people to understand. However, on this occasion we felt the issues raised in Juno’s book weren’t appropriate to the audience of young students we had identified.”In the past, St Mary’s has hosted talks by Sir Ian McKellen on behalf of LGBTQ organisation Stonewall and has been commended for its work on raising awareness in this area. Reynolds said the school was in the process of organising a trans role model to visit the students with Stonewall. “We agree with Juno that trans people should be treated as unique individuals and would never ban a visit on the grounds she has suggested,” he said.After Dawson was interviewed by Buzzfeed about the incident, Reynolds said that students had been upset by the suggestion that the school was transphobic: “The ones who have contacted me directly over the half-term holiday are really upset that Juno has totally misunderstood our school. Some of our LGB and Q students feel that Juno does not know the great work done in school with Stonewall over three years … If Juno ever came to meet us she would understand why we feel so sad.”Student Failenn Molloy, who works on the school’s Equalities Group, published a complaint in response to Buzzfeed’s article, writing: “Juno’s gender identity was an important part of her visit because it teaches our pupils that it’s OK to be transgender and that you can be just as successful as Juno, regardless of your sexuality or gender identity … I’m quite disappointed in Juno herself for assuming this was an attack on her gender. If she had given the school a chance to rearrange with her, she would have found that our school is welcoming of people of all sexualities, genders, religions, race and ability.”A spokesperson for Stonewall said it worked with a number of faith schools to provide training, support and speakers on LGBTQ issues. “We don’t know why this visit was cancelled but we would encourage the school to welcome Juno Dawson back to talk to students about her experience as a successful author.”