Publisher Anna Gerber isn’t trying to kill off the printed book – she’d just like you to spend a bit more time on your mobile. “We don’t really think the point is to change the way we read,” she says, “but we do like the idea of trying to immerse readers in books on their phones.”Gerber has been pushing at the boundaries of the printed page since she and Britt Iversen founded Visual Editions in 2010, a publisher of mould-breaking books including Jonathan Safran Foer’s Tree of Codes and Marc Saporta’s Composition No 1. Now Visual Editions has teamed up with Google Creative Lab in Sydney to create Editions at Play, a publishing project and online bookstore that sells books that “cannot be printed”, with each one available through Google Play.“We’re trying to make books that are delightful, surprising and completely unprintable,” Gerber says. “They’re not games and they’re not apps – they’re all built out of HTML – but each one is impossible to envisage on paper.”The first two titles are The Truth About Cats and Dogs, a Janus-faced account of a collaborative poetry project that flips between chapters by authors Sam Riviere and Joe Dunthorne; and Entrances & Exits, a love story from Reif Larsen where a key discovered in an abandoned bookshop unlocks a journey that the reader can follow using Google Street View. Storytellers crave your attention. We need your attention. It’s the only thing we’ve got. So we have to be smartReif Larsen, author “People like to talk about how physical books have qualities that don’t transfer well to digital,” says Iversen. “We want to show that digital books can have narrative and visual qualities that champion writing but can’t be transferred to print. You wouldn’t really sit and read a novel while at your desktop would you? You’re more likely to curl up on your sofa or armchair and read a book – and you can do that on your phone just as easily as you can with a paperback.” With Editions at Play, Iversen, Gerber and Google are trying to create books that draw people in, so that they might spend an hour with a book on their phone “in the way they might on Facebook – only to feel better about themselves once they have.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Diagram of an example user journey for The Truth of Cats and Dogs Photograph: Editions at PlayThe balance between interactivity and narrative thrust is one of the most discussed issues, says Tom Uglow of Google Creative Lab, with the team constantly wary of any interactive element getting in the way of the story.“Sometimes this has meant working in a circular and seemingly counterintuitive way, with writers making edits based on a reading experience that is interactively driven, not just narratively driven, and designers and programmers making changes that impact on readability and what’s actually technically doable,” Uglow says. “But these sticky circular points are also where most of the magic happens – at least, that’s what we like to tell ourselves.”Despite the stereotype of writer as lonely creator, for author Reif Larsen this circle of collaboration isn’t so far away from the process of producing a traditional novel. Both of his previous works – The Selected Works of TS Spivet and I Am Radar – are bursting with illustrations and marginalia of all kinds, he explains, so alongside the editorial work there was “a lot of back and forth on design questions both big and small. And I love this back and forth – it makes for a stronger creative process.”For his Editions at Play book Entrances & Exits, Larsen had initially imagined a back and forth process, a swapping of prototypes and ideas between himself and the developers; an impossible vision, given how long coding can take. Instead, Larsen wrote a full draft first, while imagining “how it would play on the screen, how the pacing between image and text would work, how short the text portals needed to be.”Not all his ideas panned out – Larsen first wanted the climax of the story to take place at the reader’s current location. “What a great way to really flex the muscle of the platform – use location recognition as a vital part of the story, something a print book could never do. But Google said, ‘We can’t do this’. So I had to go back and rethink what I was going to do. I essentially had to rewrite the story.” A self-proclaimed “believer in restrictions as being catalysts for creativity”, Larsen says this technical roadblock forced him to come up with a solution better than his original conceit. Once a prototype was up and running, the story “began to teach us how it wanted to be told. It was creating a grammar of story all on its own.”“Most of us read printed books when we know we have a relatively extended amount of time in which to do so,” says Russell Quinn, who partnered with writer Eli Horowitz to create Sudden Oak, producer of award-winning story apps. Sudden Oak’s output includes The Silent History, set in a world where children are born without the ability to learn language, and The Pickle Index, a tale of a ramshackle circus troupe conducting a prison break. “That space is usually somewhat controlled and expected interruptions are minimal, whether at home or on a bus. Apps are usually very transitory experiences – people bounce around different apps, are interrupted by notifications, are browsing things while waiting at the post office. You need to offer a series of bite-size experiences and make it easy to return and continue.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “My books were getting so structurally complicated that some readers didn’t like them,” author Iain Pears says. “Some people like to read vertically and others prefer to read horizontally, and I thought that with an app people could choose which way to read.”Previously in print, Pears’s fiction has become increasing complex: An Instance of the Fingerpost tells the same story through four different pairs of eyes, The Dream of Scipio weaves together three different stories from three different centuries, and Stone’s Fall unwinds a three-part whodunnit backwards.Why you need an app to understand my novel With only a “vague notion” of a story, Pears commissioned a piece of software to manage the relationships between independent blocks of text and started writing. The multi-stranded adventure that emerged, Arcadia, flits between an agrarian paradise, a repressive technocracy and 1960s Oxford in small chunks, each of which appears as a separate unit in the app.“I started writing in short scenes,” Pears explains. “Whereas before I used to write much longer chapters, much longer scenes, here each block of text in the app was a little block of text on my screen. Because the stories were much more separate in this bespoke writing tool, they started separating … in style and genre much more than I expected.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A screenshot from Iain Pears’s Arcadia. Photograph: Faber & FaberHaving not read much interactive literature before embarking on Arcadia, Pears found himself getting into trouble with fans of interactive fiction “because I knew nothing about it. I was interested in trying to solve my own problem rather than contributing to a pre-existing field,” he says. “It didn’t matter to me whether it was a novel solution, it just mattered that it worked.”Other difficulties he encountered were organisational, rather than technical or literary. While a publisher remains vital – Arcadia was published with Faber in the UK and Knopf in the US, for “proper editing, marketing and so on” – but Pears hadn’t realised that software houses and publishers operate in entirely different ways. “Software companies bet the bank on every piece of software they produce, whereas publishers make a lot of very tiny bets and hope that the success of 10% will cover the losses made by the other 90%.” Throwing a writer with a creative vision into all this is “a pain in the neck for all concerned, because it raises the question of who’s in charge”.When you have a developer, writer and publisher in a room, who has the final say? “I suppose I did,” Reif Larsen says. “But maybe it’s more correct to say the book did. The book really told us what it needed. A couple of times Google had final say, in that they said ‘Impossible’. A couple of times I went back to them and said: ‘The book really needs this. You have to figure out a way to make it happen.’ They would probably hate me for it, but they would go back to their magic cave and make it happen.”Vying for attention in a digital world where readers naturally “glide along shallowly and widely” is the main challenge for authors, says Larsen, who wants readers to consume his works “singularly and deeply”.“Storytellers crave your attention,” he says. “We need your attention. It’s the only thing we’ve got. So we have to be smart I think: not dumb-down our stories, but know our medium and platform. It always comes down to: make the story really great. Make the book unputdownable. Use all the old tricks of great character, mystery, love, drama, information withheld. But also let the platform guide the story a bit. You’re not writing in a vacuum.”Another major difficulty for digital books is how to price them. A literary app costs “a lot of money to produce,” says Pears, “but it goes into an environment where people aren’t really prepared to pay anything at all.” If experimental digital fiction sold like Angry Birds, production costs wouldn’t matterRussell Quinn, partner at Sudden Oak “The ebook edition of Arcadia retails at £6.99 and that’s accepted as normal, but there have been grumbles that at £2.99 the app is too expensive,” he says, “which is crazy because it’s much more difficult to produce. So long as that applies, then making apps for fiction is not really viable.”“If experimental digital fiction sold like Angry Birds, these things wouldn’t matter,” says Quinn. Just as with the emergence of cinema or the novel, it takes time to figure out new methods of storytelling – but larger publishing houses remain unwilling to make the investment, in his experience. “I think they’re missing out on a big opportunity to share in the industry’s future. It’s true that each bespoke project is labour-intensive, but over time one starts to amass skills, tricks, understanding, code libraries, modules – each new project builds on the last and that’s valuable. Established publishers have a lot of useful infrastructure – existing author relationships, publicity pipelines, editors – that a lot of these experimental projects would benefit from, but they’re largely sticking to the sidelines right now and that’s a shame.”Guardian Books podcast: Fiction that pushes at the limits of design With big publishers unwilling to commit large investments to digital fiction, the field remains open to independents and researchers alike. The Arts and Humanities Research Council awarded a grant of £800,000 for exploring “situated reading experiences” to a team including Kate Pullinger, who has been working with digital fiction since Inanimate Alice launched in 2005.For Tom Uglow, the question of whether anyone can make money “is not exactly a new one for the internet … Unsurprisingly it depends on how many copies are sold,” he says. “More so, because Editions at Play could sell 1,000, or they could sell 1m copies. But they won’t ever run out of stock if one book turns into a Potter-monster, and it won’t have to pulp or discount unread stock. If one format turns out to be amazingly adaptive or popular then the infrastructure for the sequel is already built in. One successful ‘book’ could probably carry the rest.”