Skúli Sverrisson and Óskar Guðjónsson – FragmentsMy friend Rob Lee (of Wax Stag) put on The Box Tree one night when I went to stay with him. I remember it being the perfect choice at the time, even though I’d never heard it before. Sometime later I bought the album, twice in fact because I loved it so much I had to get it on vinyl too. I’ve never heard anything quite like this track, it’s labelled as jazz but I don’t hear it as jazz. What I hear is unique, mysterious; the intriguing and magical side of bleak, like a misty forest in a strange land. I’ve never been to Iceland, but I can’t help thinking only Icelandic people could make music with this specific vibe. I drift into another world in my mind when I listen to this.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest John Coltrane and Johnny Hartman – Lush LifeThis has been on heavy rotation for years now, the self-titled album is possibly my favourite jazz record (even though generally speaking I’m not that into vocal jazz, I mostly like 50s/60s bebop/hard bop). It’s a flawless album in every way, immaculately recorded and deep and warm with lots of space in it, just like the sleeve artwork. John Coltrane is a revered master, and rightfully so, but I feel Johnny Hartman is not so well known outside of jazz-head circles. His voice is rich and deep, like it’s made of oak, and also very distinctive. This song has an addictive tune and the lyrics are rather intelligent and poignant.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Don Blackman – Holding You, Loving YouI’m obsessed with this track at the moment, I’ve been practicing the groove on my drum kit, trying to improve my timing. It’s such a simple but clever arrangement. The way the bass hammers down the groove, the fast triplet hi hats in the chorus, the sparkling chimes and dreamy synth arpeggios, the soft and effortless double-tracked vocals; it’s just insanely cool in every way. It makes me want to make music and put shells in my hair.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Change – You Are My MelodyI can’t get enough high quality 80s boogie. It’s like a peak of music production, especially bands like Change and especially this track. The bass line is to die for and all the little details that enhance the arrangement make me think this was a precious time and a precious band to learn from. That quacking mute guitar just playing one note – what a cool thing to do. The 808 in it also sounds like it’s made of pure gold.Charlie Kunz – Piano Medley 115This is from the film Withnail & I, which is my favourite. I recently upgraded my gramophone to a lovely old HMV 102 and have been playing and buying 78s again lately. It goes well with my daily routine of putting logs on the fire and sitting with a fine tea in a cup and saucer. Or occasionally a sherry. Or a small rhesus negative Bloody Mary.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 