Emerging from customs at St Pancras International station last night, I found myself looking up at two colossal sculptures. Paul Day’s nine-metre bronze statue of a kissing couple loomed up in all its detailed smoochiness. Higher still, suspended from the roof, soared Ron Arad’s wave-like Thought of Train of Thought.To their supporters and critics these may seem to be very different works of art – Arad’s cutting edge abstraction versus Day’s figurative statue – but seeing them with the eyes of a traveller who’d just cleared the UK border, they both spoke of national self-confidence: bold and brassy, a bit vulgar, and very loud.If our art says anything about us, the vogue for public art in Britain since the 1990s may be interpreted by historians as a symptom of the patriotic mood that led to Brexit. I know, the standard explanation for this year’s vote to leave the EU is that it’s all about the frustrations of voters who feel “left behind”. But actually, leaving a larger economic entity suggests a lot of national self-regard or pride, a belief that we can easily go it alone. The very “elite” that most resists this referendum result has done a lot to build up the national self-image through sheer cultural exuberance. Brexit consummates the bigging-up of Britain that has been the dominant cultural tone of the last quarter century, from Cool Britannia to the London Olympics. Didn’t the masses realise we were being ironic about all those union jacks in art and pop?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nicholas Monro’s King Kong, a 1972 work for Manzoni Gardens, Birmingham. Photograph: Arnolfini Archive at Bristol Record OfficePublic art is very much part of the cocksure cultural revival that has transformed modern Britain. From Antony Gormley’s Angel of the North to the Tower of London poppies, art on an often epic scale has captured imaginations and expressed local, civic and ultimately patriotic pride – and has accidentally, unknowingly done its bit to make Britain a Brexit nation.An exhibition currently on at the Henry Moore Institute in Leeds reveals just how different today’s enthusiasm for public art is from the attitudes that prevailed in 1970s and 80s Britain. In 1972 a venture called City Sculpture Projects put large-scale sculptures by contemporary artists including William Turnbull and Liliane Lijn into city centres across Britain. The most striking, and perhaps most likely to be popular today, was Nicholas Monro’s five-metre-high statue in Birmingham of King Kong with huge outspread arms.When after six months the cities had an option to buy the works and make them permanent, not a single one took up the offer. So while it generated plenty of debate, much of it negative, City Sculpture Projects totally failed to seed a revival of public art.That was because Britain in the 1970s hated itself. Economically decaying and politically crippled, the Britain of that time found its true cultural expression in the nihilism of punk or the black comedy of Fawlty Towers. Not in the pride of public art. Public art, which is expensive, monumental and usually affirmative, is the natural self-expression of a cohesive and expansive community. Look at the public art that dominates the British landscape and you will find that most of it comes from intensely patriotic periods – times very unlike the self-loathing 70s. Monuments such as Nelson’s column in London, the Marquess of Anglesey’s column near Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch, and the Wellington monument in Somerset were all erected in the early 19th century to remember Britain’s victories in the Napoleonic wars. The statues of Queen Victoria found in many city centres embody the confidence of the British Empire at its zenith. In a much bleaker way, the war memorials erected everywhere in Britain after 1918 reflect a nation united in sorrow and loss.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kenneth Martin’s work for Arundel Gate, Sheffield. Photograph: Arnolfini Archive at Bristol Record OfficeThe divided and depressed Britain of the 1970s conformed to this rule negatively, by turning down the offer of contemporary art to enliven its unloved cities. So what does it mean that public art is so much part of our culture today? The sculpture we put up tends to be celebrated as subversive. Contemporary art on the fourth plinth in Trafalgar Square is supposedly a modern riposte to the traditional pomp of Nelson’s Column, reflecting new attitudes and a new Britain. But look at it in a wider perspective and we actually have more in common with the creators of Trafalgar Square than we think. They had pride and so do we.Today’s investment in public art reflects and shapes a sense of community and Britishness. The grandeur of our public statuary is a visible symbol of national confidence. After a day in Paris, the two colossal sculptures at St Pancras seemed very British, very Brexit and strangely awful.