Hours before Donald Trump announced his draconian executive order banning citizens of seven Muslim countries from entering the United States, he posed with an immigrant in the Oval Office. Or at least, a work by that immigrant’s hand. Jacob Epstein’s bust of Winston Churchill has become a bizarre political football (although you’d hurt your foot if you kicked it), returned to the Oval Office with great fanfare as the symbol of a special relationship between Brexit Britain and Trump’s America. Yet this work of art holds a subversive secret.Its creator embodied everything Trump hates. Epstein was the product of America’s previous openness to immigrants. Born in New York in 1880, he was the son of Jewish refugees from Poland. There is absolutely no difference between the plight of the refugees Trump rejects and Jewish refugees from persecution in eastern Europe more than a century ago. Epstein’s parents were typical of the “huddled masses” welcomed to the US by the Statue of Liberty’s pro-immigrant inscription. Then again, they were not typical of anything – they were individuals, just like the millions of individuals all defined without further enquiry as a collective threat to America by Trump’s terrifyingly irrational and inhumane diktat. And they had a very individualist son.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The special relationship ... Theresa May and Donald Trump stand by Epstein’s bust of Winston Churchill in the Oval Office. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PAThere is an obvious analogy between Epstein’s immigrant parentage and the plight of today’s refugees and banned nationalities, but his presence in the Oval Office may be even more directly subversive than that. The bust of Winston Churchill specifically pays tribute to the British war leader’s part in the defeat of nazism. Epstein, who worked in Britain most of his life and became a British citizen in 1911, began it as the reality of the Holocaust shook the world. As a Jewish artist he does not just portray Churchill as a British bulldog but a hero of humanity whose actions helped – too late for millions – to close the death camps and end the reign of hatred in Europe. Trump’s administration, in contrast, has refused to define the Holocaust as the attempted eradication of all Jews, in an alarmingly similar stance to antisemitic sophistry.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Torso in Metal from Rock Drill, by Jacob Epstein. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianTrump does not deserve this bust in his office. Epstein would shudder. His art is radical, humane and liberal. Long before gay rights were won, this courageous artist created a fiercely explicit monument to Oscar Wilde in Père Lachaise cemetery in Paris. This 1914 sculpture is an abstract angel with a phallic thrust to its hurtling form and, before they were vandalised, spectacular testicles that asserted the power of desire. At a time when even Wilde’s fans preferred to gloss over his sexuality, Epstein made sex central to his monument.So Trump has a LGBT-supporting artist in his office. Not to mention a prophet of fascism. Epstein’s masterpiece is his eerie sculpture The Rock Drill, a vision of a dehumanised future dominated by war machines. It is a robotic creature with a long metal snout staring to the side, like a parody of Michelangelo’s David, with organs pulsing under its metallic chest: a cyborg, the last shreds of its humanity preserved inside a killing machine.Influenced by Italian futurism and comparable with the contemporary machine images of Duchamp and Picabia, The Rock Drill is more political that these other avant garde visions of tomorrow. It is a moral work. It envisions a world where people become machines – a world that would become all too real when the massed ranks of machine-like Nazi warriors paraded at Nuremberg. Jacob Epstein is indeed a dangerous interloper in the Oval Office. This child of immigrants reveals in The Rock Drill what happens to people who suppress their humanity, the humanity that sees it as natural to pity and help those fleeing war. They become monsters.