“Good horror should provoke and disturb and shock,” says Eli Roth. “If everybody approves of it and everyone thinks it’s just lovely and wonderful, then I haven’t really made a horror movie.”By his own criteria, The Green Inferno is definitely a horror movie. It’s a story of American students crash-landing in the back yard of the Amazon tribe they were trying to help, where they are greeted less as saviours than as a free tasting menu. As you would expect from the doyen of “torture porn”, Roth’s film dishes out an appetite-challenging onslaught of mutilation and evisceration. But depicting indigenous people as savage cannibals has earned the movie a whole new kind of disapproval.The Green Inferno review – gleefully offensive cannibal torture-off Adding their voices to the disgusted critics (“Unbelievably sick and depraved” – the New York Post) have been rights groups such as Amazon Watch: “That such a patently racist film could be greenlighted and released in 2015 is an indictment not only of Roth, but Hollywood in general.” And the Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Rainforest: “These kinds of films and images feed the prejudices that already exist in society in regard to indigenous peoples,” it complained, pointing out that there are no actual cannibals in the Amazon. It accused Roth of aiding the Peruvian state in its efforts to forcibly contact and remove such tribes, to better exploit their lands.Roth is having none of it. “It’s absurd. It’s like talking to a child!” he says. “The idea that the Peruvian or Brazilian government or any of these companies that have been systematically dismantling and destroying and ripping up the ground underneath these people for their minerals and gases – the idea that a movie is somehow going to justify that is childish and naive. The cause of it is money. They’re not doing it because The Green Inferno said, ‘These people are bad.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Getting her comeuppance: Kirby Bliss Blanton in The Green Inferno. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarRoth is rarely at a loss for words. He is articulate, confident, athletically built and darkly handsome. You can see why Quentin Tarantino cast him as “the Bear Jew” in Inglourious Basterds. He doesn’t think his cannibals are depicted as particularly “bad”, anyway. “I see them as functioning villagers. If these people hadn’t shown up, they’d be eating pigs and vegetables. They just see them as invaders and treat them as such.”The real-life villagers were very much in on the joke, Roth says. They had no qualms about pretending to be cannibals; they were acting. “They’re an isolated tribe. They tell stories. They understood this was storytelling. They completely got it.”The real target of Roth’s movie is less the Amazon natives but the students trying to save them. Except for the “final girl” of the piece (Lorenza Izzo, who is now Roth’s wife), they are portrayed as a bunch of self-absorbed, morally superior do-gooders, more concerned with getting retweets and media recognition than actually helping anyone, including each other. As one disobliging student says of them, “The only thing they care about is looking like they care.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roth: ‘The point isn’t for me to be understood or not, it’s to make the best movie I can.’ Photograph: Maarten de Boer/Getty ImagesIt’s this “slacktivism” that really gets Roth’s goat. He cites the popularity of online campaigns such as #BringBackOurGirls (in response to Boko Haram’s abduction of Nigerian schoolgirls in 2013), which made a lot of noise on Twitter but failed to actually bring back any of the girls. “It’s the laziest form of activism,” Roth says. “It’s just hitting your retweet button or liking something on Facebook. We all want to help, but you’re not really doing anything. I don’t think anyone wants to give up the comfort of their own home.”Technically, the characters in The Green Inferno do give up the comfort of their homes, which undermines his position somewhat, but Roth is dismayed by the state of US college politics in general. In the four years since he made the movie, he has only seen more of the misdirected outrage his movie was targeting. He cites recent incidents, such as a thoughtful email about Halloween costumes that resulted in Yale professors virtually being hounded out of their jobs, or the “poop swastika” at Missouri University, which prompted protests, hunger strikes and the resignation of president and vice-chancellor, despite the fact that it may never have existed. “It’s actually becoming a parody of itself, the self-righteousness and the political correctness of these social-justice warriors is so out of control, and what’s amazing is that universities are capitulating to it.” One suspects there won’t be a campus tour of The Green Inferno any time soon, but if the student body came after Roth, you get the impression he wouldn’t much care. “The point isn’t for me to be understood or not, it’s just to go out and make the best movie I can.”Roth is no slacktivist. He is more a man of action. His expedition up the Amazon follows in the tradition of 70s Italian horrors such as Ruggero Deodato’s notorious Cannibal Holocaust (whose characters were shooting a movie entitled The Green Inferno before they became cannibal fodder). But he is also inspired by intrepid directors such as John Huston,  Francis Ford Coppola and Werner Herzog. “I miss a type of film-making where you watch it and think, ‘The people who made this were completely insane.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ramon Llao as the Bald Headhunter. Photograph: Allstar/Worldview EntertainmentHe found his location 15 minutes upriver from where Herzog filmed Aguirre: Wrath of God, he says with some pride. The villagers had never seen TV before, so his producer put on a movie for them: Cannibal Holocaust. They thought it was hilarious. Everyone in the village signed up to be in the movie and helped build the sets. Roth paid them by building a kitchen for the school and providing metal roofs for their huts – money was of limited use in such a remote location.Roth has a host of production stories to tell: tarantulas, snakes, deadly ants, intense heat, near-drownings, trying to get realistic props of human heads past Peruvian customs, the surreal moment when a flotilla of Texan missionaries turned up and started blaring hymns at them, thinking his set was a real cannibal village. He got the jungle adventure he wanted, it seems.This isn’t the first time Roth has been drawn to the subject of privileged Americans straying out of their comfort zone – and living just long enough to regret it. The Green Inferno is the closing instalment of what he calls his “travel trilogy”. His debut, Cabin Fever, told of urban teens devoured by a flesh-eating virus in the backwoods. In the two Hostel movies, it was horny dudes looking for illicit thrills in eastern Europe who got their comeuppance. A lot of tourist boards around the world must hate him, I suggest.“I can’t discourage Americans from travelling any more than they’re discouraging themselves,” he replies.Historians may well look back on these movies as a reflection of their time – a period of unprecedented American exceptionalism and military intervention abroad, but also one marked by xenophobia and insularity. Roth both ridicules his compatriots’ ignorance and confirms their worst fears. “They feel smarter than everyone,” he says of his victims, “and that’s what gets them into trouble.”Despite his splattery provocations, Roth never really fit the description of the depraved enfant terrible. He’s far too well-adjusted. He was raised in an intellectual Jewish family in Massachusetts. His mother was a painter, his father a psychiatrist. “I was the best-behaved kid,” he says. “I never got in trouble, I had very good grades. I was the babysitter, I was the camp counsellor. I was the kid who, if the teacher left the room, they could look to me to make sure nothing bad happened.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cerina Vincent in Roth’s 2002 film Cabin Fever. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/Lions GateHis horror imagination was partly fuelled by his father’s stories of dangerous psychopaths he had treated, Roth recalls. “But also being Jewish and growing up hearing stories about the Holocaust. If you didn’t finish your food, my parents would be like, ‘You could have been in an oven in Poland.’”Watching The Exorcist when he was six years old didn’t help either. “I couldn’t sleep for a year. It was probably a mistake in retrospect.” By his teens, he was on the heavy stuff: what were then termed “video nasties” (including Italian cannibal movies). His horror-movie obsession was never censored by his parents, he says. “My father always felt they were a very safe way of me misbehaving and expressing that side of myself, that id side, that everyone feels.” When his rabbi asked him what he wanted to do with his life, Roth replied he wanted to be a producer-director – “That way you get to control your own cut.” He was 12 years old.Roth is a horror brand these days. As well as his own movies, he has produced others, such as The Last Exorcism, Chilean disaster movie Aftershock and RZA’s kung-fu epic The Man with the Iron Fists, not to mention a host of TV and online horror initiatives. But there are signs he is also moving away from the genre. Legal disputes and financial complications delayed the release of The Green Inferno by two years, in which time Roth made another movie: Knock Knock, which was released last year. This time, rather than danger lurking abroad, it comes into the home of Keanu Reeves’s middle-aged husband in the form of two up-for-it young women who turn up at his doorstep one rainy night. You can probably guess what happens next. Knock Knock wasn’t a huge commercial success, but it’s a more mature type of Roth movie, relying on dramatic tension rather than gruesome bodily torment. There’s only one drop of blood in the entire movie, Roth points out with the pride of a former addict who has stayed clean. “Blood stains your eyes,” he says. “Once you see the gore, it’s like the red gets into your contact lenses and you see the whole movie through that filter.”Perhaps The Green Inferno has finally sated Roth’s bloodlust. Having walked in the footsteps of his Italian horror heroes, he is now on track to emulate other former gore-merchants who have gone on to bigger, more palatable things, such as Sam Raimi, Peter Jackson and David Cronenberg. He is currently working on a movie about a killer prehistoric shark, called Meg (as in megalodon).After years toiling with low budgets, he is excited to be doing a $100m movie. “As a director, I’m really ready to branch out, to do comedy and other things,” he says. “It doesn’t mean I won’t come back to horror, but at a certain point, if you feel like you’ve become a parody of yourself, it’s time to move on.”The Green Inferno is in cinemas now