If you want to make a lot of money and go on making it, discover or concoct something addictive. Sell it cheap, then hike the price. Opium, tobacco, soft, cheap cotton cloth, or spices to disguise the rottenness of food – history is a study of addictions, and accumulating wealth.Hook your client, and hook him young! Keep him supplied, and the craving will soon seem natural – if you hook him as a child, of course, you’ve got a whole lifetime of guaranteed income. So what about a cheap, sweet drink that gives you a buzz and makes you feel full? – you could sell that to the poorest of the poor… you could sell it to street-kids, in fact, and ignore the fact they can’t clean their teeth or get dental treatment – ignore the fact that toothache and rot become a normal part of their monstrously troubled lives: you’re making money. Andy Mulligan: How I wrote Trash in 10 days straight I worked in Manila (the capital of the Philippines) and saw it every day: beautiful teeth turning to stumps because the street-kids needed their fix. When I visited a fruit-juice factory I saw pyramids of sugar, and do you know what? – it seemed just a little bit wrong. After all, if I were to fill your food with something that’s bad for your health but tasty, you’d ask me not to.So my new book Liquidator has its roots in the rotten-toothed smiles of poor Filippino children, but it morphed out of Asia and became global. It’s about a drinks-company that is seeking to steal the market from its rivals by concocting the ultimate energy–drink - a gorgeous bundle of genetically modified substances, with an appropriate sprinkling of hormone-enhancers and steroids - and it’s been trialed secretly (and cynically) in the third world where dispensable children queue up to take part in the tests, in exchange for a free t-shirt. When they fall sick, they can’t hire lawyers or spell “compensation” – they sit quietly, wondering what they’ve done to themselves. When the book starts, we’re ready to go with the product launch – a massive rock concert will be beamed live around the planet, and the sponsor is, of course, “LIQUIDATOR – for those who wanna win!” That’s when my heroes intervene, and try to expose the monstrous corruption.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I was asked if it was an “issue” book, designed to make children think – and the answer is no. First and foremost, it’s a thriller, and my protagonists – who are all in their early teens – find themselves on a terrifying roller-coaster, pursued by corporate thugs who’ll stop at nothing etc etc. I like to think it’s a comedy too, in that the children work together to take advantage of astonishing coincidences, and what knits them together is that they’re all on work-experience, taking a week out of the classroom to experience the realities of adult work. And wow, do they experience adults…       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jamie Oliver at the House of Commons in October 2015, where he called he called for a tax on sugar as part of hisSugar Rush campaign. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PAWhat’s struck me, though, is just how topical it is. We have Jamie Oliver shouting loudly, and the government wringing its hands pondering the merits of a sugar tax. Our classrooms need new desks and chairs to fit increasingly obsese children, and the supermarkets still put the shiniest packaging on the worst foods, ensuring it’s all at the eye-level of our poor, exploited toddlers. It’s enough to make you angry – and that’s where Liquidator really came from: a rising fury that we’re all addicted to the worst things, and feel helpless as our children follow in our footsteps.Is it based on careful research? It’s based on emotional research. It’s based on working in schools where kids endlessly snack on stuff that wrecks their concentration, and can hardly kick a football. It asks the question, how is this crime being perpetrated? Why are the vending machines full of stuff that potentially wrecks our bodies and, ultimately, our confidence? I’m 52 and can make my own idiotic choices. It seems monstrous to me that children are urged, every day, to make BAD choices, and to effectively poison themselves. And the final irony is that the brand-names of these foul products are stitched onto the clothing of our finest athletes, as if their toned bodies and astonishing self-discipline is the result of this sugary muck.I sent the book to Jamie Oliver, and to David Cameron. I think they’re still reading it, because I haven’t had a reply yet.Andy Mulligan’s Liquidator is available from the Guardian bookshop. 