Let It Shine 6.45pm, BBC1It has been a long old slog to find a boyband to impersonate Take That for the purposes of Gary Barlow’s new musical, but the three best groups have now reached the final hurdle. The Barlow, Dannii Minogue, Martin Kemp and whoever the random floating judge is this week will have their say, but it’s down to the viewers to decide who wins. Mel Giedroyc and Graham Norton are on hand to provide relief in these obviously tense times. Who is it to be? You decide. Hannah Verdier Ant & Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway 7pm, ITV Ant and Dec return with their skit-laden variety box, bringing along Gogglebox star Scarlett Moffatt as new co-host. Tonight, there’s an Undercover sting promised for Jamie Oliver, a surprise gig for Voice UK coach Jennifer Hudson and a hair-raising stunt on the cards for Moffatt. Also, a fresh mystery beckons for Emilia Fox, with several celebrities to be interrogated following the disappearance of the Crown Jewels. Mark Gibbings-JonesDiana: Designing a Princess 8pm, BBC2This year sees the 20th anniversary of Princess Diana’s death. One of the reasons she retains such a hold on the collective imagination is because she understood the power of fashion. So argues this documentary, presented by Brenda Emmanus, which includes interviews with designers and a visit to Hampton Court Palace, scene of work to prepare some of Diana’s most celebrated frocks for exhibition. Jonathan WrightTaboo 9.15pm, BBC1The threads of James Delaney’s plans will either unravel or come together this week, as the grimy and grunt-heavy Taboo concludes. However, our malodorous hero has to get all his ducks in a row while being tortured at the Tower, detained on charges of high treason. No mean feat. Continuing to play the crown off against Stuart Strange’s bastardly East India Company, matters rather come to a head at the docks. There will be blood. And plenty of it. Ben ArnoldStealing the Mona Lisa 10.30pm, Channel 5Her face is one of the most reproduced in the world, traversing the line between art-world eminence and cheap tat. This doc about the theft of the Mona Lisa in 1911 resides in the second category. While there’s much on the audacity of the thief who pinched Da Vinci’s painting straight from the Louvre, unsurprisingly there’s less on the audacity of programme-makers who boil fascinating historical events down to drivel. Hannah J DaviesScorpion 8pm, ITV2Equal parts The Big Bang Theory and The A-Team, this slick procedural features a gang of socially awkward super-brains who help Homeland Security deal with major threats. Usually, the Scorpion squad are up against cyber-criminals or arms dealers, so tonight’s crisis is an outlier: when a freak accident in the desert leaves their flinty handler Cabe (Robert Patrick) mortally wounded, the team have to improvise intensive care from the dusty gubbins at hand. Graeme Virtue Speaker’s House: the Future of Brexit 9pm, BBC ParliamentFeel as if you haven’t got quite enough Brexit chat in your life? BBC Parliament has you covered. This week, as Theresa May’s self-imposed deadline for activating Article 50 approaches, politicians including Chair of the Committee for Exiting the EU Hilary Benn and King of the Lizard People Michael Gove debate the uncertain future of the UK. Are we accelerating towards a bright future or ploughing suicidally into a brick wall? Phil HarrisonFilm choices      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Magnificent suffering … Mildred Pierce. Photograph: Everett Collection/REXWaterloo (Sergei Bondarchuk, 1970), 1pm, BBC2An epic reconstruction of the momentous battle, though by Sergei Bondarchuk’s standards it’s brief; he had already made an eight-hour version of War And Peace. Rod Steiger is superb as Napoleon, twitching between genius commander and raging bully, and finally meeting his match in Christopher Plummer’s coolly aloof Wellington. But all the august performances – including Virginia McKenna’s Duchess of Richmond and Orson Welles’s Louis XVIII – are warm-up acts for the main event, a stunning hour-long battle scene. Paul HowlettMildred Pierce (Michael Curtiz, 1945), 2.25pm, TCMOscar-winning Joan Crawford is Mildred, a self-made restaurateur lumbered with the worst daughter in the world and a no-good husband. She suffers magnificently in a bleak adaptation of James M Cain’s story, told in flashback as police unravel the events leading to her hubby’s death. PHDawn of the Planet of the Apes (Matt Reeves, 2014), 9pm, Channel 4 This second episode of the impressive Apes prequels has rebel chimp Caesar (a motion-captured Andy Serkis) and his CGI cohorts living free and relatively untroubled in the forest until they encounter an encampment of human survivors, led by Gary Oldman’s wily Dreyfus. The primates of both sides mull over issues of trust, peace and war before battle commences. PHYouth Without Youth (Francis Ford Coppola, 2007), 1.15am, BBC2 Like a fast-rewind Benjamin Button, Tim Roth’s ageing Romanian professor is hit by a thunderbolt and awakens restored to his thirtysomething prime, with the contents of his now enhanced brain sought after by Nazis and allies alike in wartime Europe. It’s partly a thriller, but much more a bold, bewildering rumination on existence and reincarnation.Live sportSix Nations Rugby Union: Scotland v Wales 2pm, BBC1 Wales look to recover from their last-minute defeat to England. Ireland v France airs 4.15pm, ITV.Premier League Football: Watford v West Ham United 5pm, BT Sport 1 The two mid-table sides clash at Vicarage Road.PGA Tour Golf: The Honda Classic 6pm, Sky Sports 4Coverage of the third day at the PGA National Champion Course in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida.