It was one of those experiences where you remember everything: who you were with, what you were wearing, what time of day it was.It was my first Arthur Miller. I was 16 years old. I’d been a nerdy drama student for about eight years, but I hadn’t seen that much live theatre and I’d never seen any of Miller’s plays performed.I was with one of my oldest and best friends, Nadia Townsend. We were passionate acting students, in year 11 at Bradfield College, and she was my partner-in-crime for all things dramatic. I wore a short, second-hand 60s dress with lemon and lime flowers and capped sleeves, and Blundstone lace-up boots – it was the 90s. It was a matinee performance, we were 16, we were out by ourselves and there was a feeling of tension and fever in the audience because the production was so good. I was very naive. I didn’t know anything about the story of A View From the Bridge, so I went in blind. Although the play is set in 1950s New York, it’s essentially a Greek tragedy. Eddie Carbone is an Italian-American longshoreman married to Beatrice. He’s a good man but he has an unhealthy obsession with his wife’s niece, Catherine, who lives with the couple. When the brothers Marco and Rodolpho arrive, his obsession starts to bleed into the rest of his life, with tragic consequences.This production was directed by Adam Cook at Company B, with an extraordinary cast. Essie Davis played Catherine. She was 23, had just graduated from NIDA and was this stunning ingenue. Marshall Napier played Eddie Carbone. Justin Monjo and Gillian Jones were also in it. It made me uncomfortable in the best possible way. There were so many moral lines in the sand that I was conflicted about. I had never felt that before. I felt empathy for Eddie but I was scared of him; I was worried for Essie as Catherine but I also wasn’t sure if I trusted her. As the complexity of the story built and built and built, my heart was in my throat as I wondered what was going to happen. It was electric, and when the lights went up for half time everyone was holding their breath.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Actor Rose Byrne with Speed-the-Plow director Andrew Upton and co-stars Damon Herriman and Lachy Hulme. Photograph: James Green/Sydney Theatre CompanyThere was also a true sense of company on stage, of everybody bouncing off each other, everyone passing the baton; there was a dance of tension and fear and love, hot in the air. But it was the exploration of the greyness of the moral boundaries which I had never really felt before. The play was the beginning of my journey of searching for those sacred experiences that you have in the theatre, and wanting to be a part of that. It’s like lightning in the bottle, trying to capture that thrill that can come on stage, and it’s very rare. I can count on two hands the number of plays I’ve seen where I’ve felt like that, but this was the first one. It’s like the first time you fall in love, the first time you have your heart broken – these are the seminal moments in our lives. For me, this was the first time that theatre crossed over the boundaries of just being entertainment, to become something far greater, more complex, more confronting and profound.  This was the first time that theatre crossed over from just being entertainment, to become something far greater As best I can, I’ve sought out work like this – with those shifting moral boundaries – throughout my career. And as I’ve got older, I have returned to touchstones like this. Like when I first saw Sam Shepherd’s True West, or Tracy Letts’s August Osage County, or when I first heard a Cat Power ballad when I was 21. These are the touchstones of art that really changed me; that’s what great art can do. And those first experiences are special, so I return to them when I’m feeling slightly despaired or uninspired, all of those things that can come with time and age in this business. A View From the Bridge is an emotional touchstone for what’s in my gut and in my heart.It’s still my favourite Arthur Miller play. The playwright explored the grey areas of life in all his works, including Death of a Salesman and The Crucible, but for me this play encapsulates the ambiguity best. It was first performed in 1956, and like many of his plays it stands the test of time. And just like any great work of literature or theatre or film or music, it still makes us laugh or cry or think or be inspired. As told to Alexandra Spring• Rose Byrne will appear in David Mamet’s Speed-the-Plow at Sydney Theatre Company from 8 November to 17 December 