Elechi Amadi, who has died aged 82, was one of the founding generation of African novelists in English. His work was greatly admired by his fellow writers in Nigeria, and he had a large readership throughout Africa, but undeservedly he did not attain the wider international reputation of Chinua Achebe or Wole Soyinka.He was a son of eastern Nigeria who nonetheless fought on the federal side in the Nigerian civil war of the late 60s, rejecting the notion of the independent state of Biafra sought by the secessionist regime in the east. He was thought of as a man of convention, yet he stoutly refused to remove sexual allusions in his most prominent novel, The Concubine (1966), and resisted attempts to give it a more innocent-sounding title.Son of Womuchukwu, a chief in the Ikwerre tribe, and his wife, Enwere, Amadi was born in Aluu, near Port Harcourt, now the capital of Rivers State and for the past 60 years the centre of Nigeria’s oil economy. He was educated at Government college, Umuahia, then for a year at the Survey School in Oyo, and finally at University College, Ibadan, which until 1962 awarded University of London degrees. Amadi’s was in physics and mathematics. It was as a student at the university’s Tedder Hall that he made his literary debut, writing for the Horn, a university publication co-edited by the British scholar Martin Banham and by JP Clark, who was himself to become one of Nigeria’s best-known writers. Though the Horn existed only between 1958 and 1964, it was a seedbed for new talent.After graduating, Amadi worked briefly as a land surveyor before becoming a teacher at the Nigerian Military School in Zaria, northern Nigeria. He resigned his position there in the first week of 1966. He described as “mere coincidence” his abrupt decision to leave Zaria and return to his home state only three days before the coup which led to the death of the prime minister, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, though there have always been conspiracy theories that, as eastern Nigerians were now in the ascendancy, Amadi was somehow in the know.He took up another teaching post at Ikwerre Etche grammar school, 17 miles from Port Harcourt. A few months later, a northern-inspired counter-coup put Yakubu Gowon in power and demands for secession in the east became overwhelming. Amadi describes in Sunset in Biafra (1973) the false optimism of Biafra’s unilateral declaration of independence and the “long gloomy night of horrors” which ensued. He himself survived separation from his family, the closure of all Biafran schools, and months of hardship and detention .Amadi first gained serious attention as a writer with the publication of The Concubine, an early contribution (number 25) to the great Heinemann African Writers Series. It is the novel by which he is best known, having sold nearly half a million copies. It contains no European characters on whom to deflect the burden of moral criticism, as though Amadi wanted to distil the essence of a timeless Africa. While the rest of west African writing in English seemed to darken with satire or self-criticism from the late 1960s onwards, Amadi’s novel explored the boundary between myth and reality, its protagonist Ihuoma being revealed as the wife of the Sea King and hence only a concubine to her male partner.The Concubine was the first of a trilogy, completed by The Great Ponds (1969) and The Slave (1973), in which Amadi illustrated a central premise of much African fiction. In portraying the character of an individual, a whole community is revealed, for “when you suffer a disaster, your neighbours also suffer”. His last novel, Estrangement (1986), revisited the civil war, but in later life he concentrated more on plays. Several of these, such as Isiburu (1973), depict struggles between ordinary people and the supernatural world, but one of them, The Dancer of Johannesburg (1977), faced up squarely to the moral obnoxiousness of apartheid. A volume of collected plays was published in 2004. He wrote essays, including an influential treatise, Ethics in Nigerian Literature (1982).Amadi continued to be employed in government service until 1990, holding among other offices the post of minister of education in Rivers State after the conclusion of the war. In 1982 he visited London and gave a packed-out reading at the Africa Centre in London. In 2003 he was made a Member of the Order of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, his nation’s highest honour. He survived a kidnap attempt in 2009, and was released after 23 hours.Amadi was twice married and had eight daughters and four sons. Intriguingly, in a letter to his publisher, James Currey of Heinemann Educational Books, written in 1984 when he was arguing over the amount of his advance for Estrangement, he writes that his wife “is expecting our baby in August and I need sterling … Heinemann may well have a stake in the child because a prenatal divination here strongly indicates that it will write better than the father”. Despite this characteristic charm, Heinemann was not persuaded to increase its offer.• Elechi Amadi, writer, born 12 May 1934; died 29 June 2016