Was there a turning point in your life where you decided you wanted to become a writer?You know I have wanted to be a writer for as long as I can remember and if there was a turning point it was maybe reading a story of Roald Dahl’s, this was from a book he wrote called the Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More. It is a book of short stories, but at the very back, he had a bit about how he became a writer. It had this checklist of all the ways that you can know if you are supposed to be a writer. I was maybe nine or 10 and I still have the copy of that book and I would go through and check them all off and I would go: yes that’s me, that’s me too. It’s just something that I always wanted to do.Angel by LA Weatherly - review What inspired you to write Broken Sky?Err… Broken Sky, you know it’s funny that sometimes with ideas you can really point where I got the idea from. So with the Angel series, I had the characters in my head for a long time and I suddenly saw these books on display about angels and thought, yes that’s the way it’s going to be. But with Broken Sky I have no idea where the idea came from. I was having a dinner in a Thai restaurant with my husband and we were just sort of chatting away and the idea literally just dropped into my head and I sort of gasped out loud and said: “Has this ever been done, this is a wonderful idea” and interrupted whatever it was he was saying. I have no idea where it came from.Broken Sky by LA Weatherley – review Broken Sky, explores the idea of a world where everyone lives in harmony and everything is perfect. Do you think that perfection is is something that humans are actually able to reach or that it is a concept that we, and society, have created?Do I think that perfection is something that humans might be able to reach? No, absolutely not, humans are very imperfect, so now I think that any sort of utopia will be flawed and can’t even be a utopia at all, because humans are flawed – that’s what makes it so interesting and challenging. In Broken Sky the main character is called Amity and actually the society she lives in is not the one ruled by harmony, but she can sort of watch that approaching and realises that their society is not actually perfect and perhaps things are not the way they seem.Did you get inspiration from history - I thought maybe modern day communism or communism from the 1940s?Yes, very much. When I first had the idea of Broken Sky, it took me a bit of thinking as to how exactly I would approach it. I had the basic idea is that there’s a world where conflicts between nations are resolved by two fighter pilots, who have to go up against each othe. Whoever wins, wins the conflict for their country. The second world war came really strongly into mind because the world I’ve created in Broken Sky is a kind of dark, distorted 1940s world. For this reason there are a lot of references to the second world war, although it is not specifically about that. There is a lot of astrology in it too, which is sort of goes back to Adolf Hitler’s supposed love of the supernatural. I’m not sure if that has been verified but I always found it really fascinating.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nazi leader Adolf Hitler s rumoured to have been very interested in the supernatural. Photograph: Keystone/Getty ImagesTell us more about the idea of alternative realities or even alternative universes? Why did you set Broken Sky in this strange echo of 1940s America?That’s really just the way it happened. I think in a way it comes back to, with any author, their own interests and passions. I’ve always loved old movies and particularly film noir which is basically, dark film from the 1940s – and that particular sort of use of darkness in films and story sense, in terms of how they look and feel. Film noir has always been that sort of light and dark for me, with lots of use of shadows. As I was writing Broken Sky it suddenly occurred to me this was film noir – and I sort of saw the world this way .In Broken Sky the main character Amity, contrary to popular belief, thinks that astrology is nonsense. What are your opinions on astrology?It’s really interesting because there is also a character called Kay Pierce in Broken Sky, who’s a young astrologer that doesn’t believe in it but sort of uses it to play the game. I think I probably believe in astrology more than Amity or Kay to be honest. As I was going up my mother and my sister were actually very into astrology and I would cast astrology charts etc. It’s not something that I do now. and I don’t know how much I actually believe in it – but I do think it’s interesting how often people actually live up to their star signs.You grew up in Little Rock, USA and now live in the UK. What are the major differences between the US and the UK?Oh gosh, it’s an interesting question, I’ve lived in the UK for 20 years now and this very much feels like home, to such an extent that when I go back to the US that it seems strange to me. There’s a lot of differences. I think people are people sort of underneath everywhere, but the way that people in the US are instantly friendly, instantly your best friend (though that may not actually be the case) is not the same in the UK! You can be sitting in a restaurant in the US and someone comes up and starts talking to you – you haven’t even sat down. Here in the UK that’d be sort of “ooh, get away from me!” but in the US people are much more overtly friendly. In some ways I’m more comfortable in the UK because I’ve always had a dry sense of humour, a sort of sarcastic sense of humour which can appear very rude in the US, where humour tends to be more straightforward.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? What tips do you have for young readers and aspiring writers on how to get into the writing game?To read, anything you can get your hands on, and to write. You know that seems really obvious advice that you hear a lot, but I think that it is advice that you hear a lot because it is true. I think you cannot be a good writer unless you read a lot and, unless you practice a lot. When you first start to write, don’t worry if it’s not as good as the things that you read. You just have to practice, practice and practice. I probably wrote for 20 years before I actually got published, it’s just the way things go sometimes. I would just say to keep the passion and keep the faith in yourself and do not be discouraged if you try to get published and it does not happen because it’s a very narrow market at the moment. Keep trying! What are you working on now?I’m about midway through writing book three of the Broken Sky series which is due out in March 2017, as my second one is basically finished – the copy edits and proofs will have to be done but it’s strange because I’m almost at the end of this journey and the world is just about to start on it! LA Weatherly’s Broken Sky is available from the Guardian bookshop. Do you want to interview your favourite author? Join the Guardian children’s books site and we might be able to make it happen! 