When I was 14, I used to go to a place in London called the Black House, an organisation run by Michael X, who had been a henchman for a slum landlord. When he came round, if you didn’t pay, you got hurt. But then he switched and tried to become England’s answer to Malcolm X – except he was nothing like him.He got some funding, though, and some donations from John Lennon and Yoko Ono, to create a community centre for young black kids. It was a very militant organisation, constantly being raided by the police, who thought there were lots of drugs and guns on the premises. It eventually closed because of the pressure. Michael then went to Trinidad and set up a commune. He went crazy and killed two people there, including the daughter of a British MP, and was hanged.Growing up black: Dennis Morris's portrait of the 70s The Black House had a library, a games room and a rehearsal room. We congregated there, those of us who wanted to find out more about ourselves. It was quite a big building, a warren of rooms and basements. You’d turn a corner and stumble across some secret meeting you shouldn’t be a part of. While walking around one day, I came across this kid and took some shots. I don’t remember who it was, but there were no questions, no who, what, where. I knew immediately it would make a great photograph. I was quite frightened – the way he was handling the gun, the way he portrayed himself, he had a sense of purpose. He was about 10. A lot of kids have guns now. They’ll go out with guns to rob a shop or parade them round estates, the message being: “Don’t fuck with me.” But back in 1969, this was just a kid fooling around, so the image feels almost prophetic.It also reminds me of how tough it was growing up in Hackney. I had to drop my cockney accent if I was ringing up for an interview, or the job was gone. I was lucky that my name doesn’t sound African, but when I turned up for the interview and they saw me, it was: “Sorry, the job is gone.” You had to move out of Hackney as soon as you could, lose your accent, blend in.At school, when I told the careers master I wanted to be a photographer, he said: “Don’t be silly, boy. There’s no such thing as a black photographer.” But when I was in my last year of school, Bob Marley was playing the Speakeasy Club, and I asked if I could take his picture. He really took to me, invited me on tour, and my career began. He gave me a sense of myself, showed me how to be, how to stand firm. And then punk came along and taught me how to kick the door down.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dennis Morris. Photograph: Pearl MorrisDennis Morris’s CVBorn: Jamaica. “I don’t talk about age. I’m a tree: when it falls, you can tell its age. I’m still growing.”Education: “My church’s benefactor, Don Patterson, who manufactured photographic equipment.”Influences: Gordon Parks, Robert Capa, Henri Cartier-Bresson, David Bailey, Irving Penn, Robert Frank.High point: “The invention of autofocus. A photographer relies on his eyes, but with autofocus you can continue for ever.”Low point: “The 1980s. Everything became totally about money.”Top tip: “Forget about equipment. See with a third eye.”Dennis Morris’s work is part of Stan Firm inna Inglan: Black Diaspora in London 1960s-70s, at Tate Britain, London, until autumn.