May I say a word or two about the letter (April 7) from Ms Parnaby and Wingfield? It has not received the response that might have been expected.Their statement that Sylvia Plath and I signed divorce papers is false. It is difficult to imagine how they could have been unaware of this. I presume, from their addresses and the contents of their letter, that they are scholars of some kind, possibly Plath scholars, who presumably know the basic texts. A little more inquiry on their part would have made their imputations against me - that I do not respect the literary tradition, that I have failed to honour the memory of Sylvia Plath - quite unnecessary. As it stands, I believe their letter is libellous.Whether Sylvia Plath was divorced or not was naturally one of the first questions to be asked after her death. Various legal arrangements hung on the answer, which was established without difficulty. Sylvia Plath was not divorced. If she had been divorced, my life and her children’s lives would have been utterly different. I can add to that. Whatever she may have said to the advisers who were urging her on, she never touched divorce papers, and had no plan to do so. I am able to say that because she and I discussed our future quite freely up to the end.I am no great student in the Fantasia which has obscured the life and death of Sylvia Plath, but so far as I am aware Ms Parnaby and Wingfield are the first in 26 years to decide that this bit of her history needs to be rewritten. As is well enough known, she is one of the most closely studied and widely taught writers in the Western world, and has been so for many years. By late 1986 there existed some 700 publications about her. If Ms Parnaby and Wingfield’s imputations against me are to be seen for what they are, it has to be spelled out: any scholars who can assert, in 1989, that Sylvia Plath was divorced, show small respect for the truth about her, or for her memory, or for the literary tradition of which she is part. They are living in some kind of Fantasia.There is rather more to it. Perhaps Ms Parnaby and Wingfield will plead that they did not invent this bit of apocrypha, but that certain other people have been accepting it as gospel for some time. If that is so, perhaps it would explain why Sylvia Plath’s grave has been so repeatedly vandalised. Ms Parnaby and Wingfield’s wording of their mischievous falsehood can be read, to my mind, very like an incitement for other misguided enthusiasts to desecrate the grave afresh. But whether they invented it or only adopted it, the fact is wrong and they have asserted it.Ted Hughes's final lines to Sylvia Plath bring closure to a tragic tale Guardian readers might wonder why it has been left to me to set this crucial and fundamental fact right. Among all those who are said to be so concerned about the fading of her memory, didn’t anybody notice it? The situation is typified, really, by that first response to Ms Parnaby and Wingfield’s letter. It was signed by eight names, all well versed in Plath. Several of them have written about her at length, have taught her work and lectured about her in universities. All have shown respect for the literary tradition. Presumably they were asked to sign only because their credentials are so good. Some of them are extremely well known, and one is a greatly respected Nobel Prize Winning Poet. Their names appear under a letter which presents them as impatient guardians of the truth about Sylvia Plath, demanding to know the real facts about recent doings in Heptonstall graveyard, and fantasising a peculiar role for me. This letter is by way of being a continuation of the earlier one by Ms Parnaby and Wingfield. It is a surprise, though, to see these normally sensible names being sucked into the same delusion. Or perhaps it is not a surprise. Guardian readers can here observe the Plath Fantasia in action. These perfectly well-meaning signatories call strenuously for more truth about Sylvia Plath and commend Ms Parnaby and Wingfield for the “valid and important points” made in their letter. But at the same time they find no difficulty whatsoever in swallowing the staring historical untruth around which that whole letter revolves.They find no difficulty, either, in countersigning what any reader might think are insinuations against Sylvia Plath’s family. This too has to be spelled out. Given the choice of the truth and the lie, Ms Parnaby and Wingfield choose, with absolute confidence, the lie. Presented with the lie (in a context which develops the implications of the lie through almost every sentence) the committee of eight jurors not only swallow it, they wash it down with commendations for those who handed it to them.I don’t know whether readers find this carry-on as incomprehensible as I do. One can only suppose that some of these names, at least, never knew anything about the first letter, and so didn’t catch the real implications of the second, which they were asked to sign, when it was read to them over the phone. I assume it was done over the phone, since they were conjured so quickly. In a way, that only makes their letter more typical of the genre, where morally strident demands for the truth about this or that aspect of Sylvia Plath’s life are blended with incredible yet glaringly obvious evidence that at bottom nobody really gives a damn.This is an edited extract, read the full letter      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Guardian, 20 April 1989. 