What’s the name of this show? HeartbeatWhen does it premiere? Tuesday 22 March at 9pm EST on NBC following The Voice. Then it settles into its usual Wednesday slot on 23 March at 8pm ESTWhat is this show about? A heart surgeon and her confusing love life. Does the title make you want to roll your eyes a million times? Yes. How is this medical drama different? It’s not at all. Just like House, this show is about a brilliant medical professional who behaves abhorrently but is so good at her job that it excuses her inappropriate behaviour. When a man on her plane falls ill, she doesn’t want to raise her hand because she’s afraid she’ll get her clothes dirty. When an old woman goes braindead she cheers because it means a patient of hers will get an organ donation. Oh, and let’s not forget when she maybe let her patient’s suicidal boyfriend blow his brains out so she could get that heart donated in the first place. That’s so House. The only difference here is that the doctor is a woman. Wouldn’t the gender of the protagonist have a huge impact on the series? You’d think so, but no. Dr Alexandra Panttiere (Melissa George, a Grey’s Anatomy alum) is the “chief innovations officer” at a hospital. Yes, it sounds like she works at a start-up, but she’s actually a genius cardiothoracic surgeon. She likes to race her sports car, shoot hoops on the hospital roof, has a fear of commitment and a female boss that is always nagging her about rules and the law and not killing people with experimental surgery. It all hews extremely close to the formula. Then she must have a messy personal life. She does. She is currently dating her coworker Dr Pierce Harrison (Dave Annable) and raising two sons with her ex-husband Max (Joshua Leonard). He is a former rock star who is now out of the closet. How do we know? He gives his ex fashion advice, of course. Her mentor and former flame Dr Jessie Shane (Don Hany) returns to St Matthews and reignites some old feelings. She’s struggling with the choice of two men, and each episode revisits her complicated past with Dr Shane through flashbacks. What about the medical stuff? It’s your typical case-of-the-week fare, but generally outrageous. The pilot features Panttiere having to install an extra heart in a young woman who then has to live with two hearts in her chest. The second episode features conjoined twins she must separate and the third is about a guy with brain damage who can only speak backwards. You know, just your average bumps and bruises.Is it any good? The medical aspects of the show aren’t bad, but done much better in other places (like Code Black, Grey’s Anatomy, reruns of ER). They’re also so outrageous and Alex’s skills so monumental that it’s hard to believe any of it. When the tiny tremors of an earthquake foul up an operation it’s time to throw your hands up in the air and just let the ridiculousness wash over you.The personal stories are even worse. Alex is already with a gorgeous, smart guy who loves her, so what is her big deal? Her relationship with Dr Shane seems in the past, especially because we are actually seeing it unfold a decade ago. There is absolutely no tension or urgency here, no will-they-or-won’t-they tug. So much time has passed, there’s not even any now-I-have-to-work-with-my-ex tension. Is there anything else bad here? Yes, the usually charming DL Hughley is absolutely wasted as the head of the hospital’s psychology department. If you’re going to have a bland character with nothing to do, why waste such a great comedic talent in the role? Should I watch this show? No, you should not. It’s a bad show in general, but what is most disappointing is that we could use more procedurals that are helmed by a female character. If only someone other than Shonda Rhimes could figure out how to do it well. 