When a complimentary copy of Pride and Prejudice and Zombies arrived in 2009, along with a publisher’s letter intimating that as an Austen scholar I might relish this latest testimony to her influence, I assumed the book would disappear as rapidly as most other specimens of contemporary Austeneana. But I was wrong. Seth Grahame-Smith’s introduction of “ultraviolent zombie mayhem to Austen’s literary classic soon hit the New York Times bestseller list. Now it is a film (pictured) with Lily James moving on from her turn as Natasha in the BBC’s War and Peace to playing Elizabeth Bennet as an adept zombie-slayer.Is the literary mash-up a passing fad or a fertile new genre? The art of mashing up involves putting together two completely incongruous genres, only to discover that something in the high-cultural original matches the low material with which it is mixed. In Pride and Prejudice and Zombies the Bennet girls prepare themselves for encounters with the undead just as enthusiastically as they prepare themselves for husband-hunting in the original. When Elizabeth walks across the fields to visit her sister, she is assaulted by a gaggle of zombies and survives only by dint of her skills in martial arts. “Elizabeth found herself at last within view of the house, with weary ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise.”. The sentence is very nearly as Jane Austen wrote it, though Elizabeth’s exercise has been even more strenuous than in the original text. Those “weary ankles” come from decapitating “unmentionables” with well-aimed kicks.Inspirited by Grahame-Smith’s lucrative example, others followed. We have had Little Women and Werewolves and Sense and Sensibility and Sea Monsters. But many possibilities remain. Even now publishers must be encouraging young would-be authors with English Lliterature degrees and a taste for popular culture to think of the mash-ups that have yet to be attempted.Austen in sea monster mash-up The Only Way Is MiddlemarchWhen Eliot’s provincial characters are relocated to Brentwood, Essex, their true vulgarity emerges. Beautician Ros Vincey nabs cosmetic surgeon Tert Lydgate, but frets at his unwillingness to buy a pool. Super-hot Dot, daughter of a club owner, says yes to ageing DJ Ed, but thinks he might need some Viagra. And, anyway, her eye is wandering to the new club singer Will. The Porsches in Nick Bulstrode’s Porsche concession dazzle the lads, but what about his dodgy finances?The Barsetshire FantasyTrollope’s characters too often argue about small matters: the first volume of his Barsetshire saga is about who will be appointed to run the old folks’ home in an English cathedral city. We need a touch of Game of Thrones. Bring in the necromancers and dragons! Give the squabbling families something important to fight about! Mrs Cersei Proudie would certainly be happy to see her enemies eviscerated in the dining hall of the Bishop’s Palace. Eunuch spymaster Varys Slope would relish scheming the downfall of his ecclesiastical foes. Archdeacon Grantly surely needs to recruit the aid of bewitching Signora Melisandre Neroni, but will pay a price for her help.Brideshead Re-exorcisedCharles Ryder revisits the big empty house where he once stayed and remembers its horrors. The Marchmains seem charming, but are pursuing converts to their dark desires. Poor Sebastian, no wonder he is on the booze when his ancestral home is a portal to hell. Upstairs is creepy nanny, chef d’orchestre of this supernaturally corrupted household. Don’t trust Mr Samgrass, the priest taken on as Sebastian’s guide, for he is stooge of Satan. Charles falls for willowy Julia Flyte, the only family member who seems unpossessed, but can even she escape the demons?Star Trek visits Planet BeckettOn a strange planet only a little like Earth, every inhabitant is confined. One of them, buried up to her neck in sand, talks about her past to her unresponsive husband. Another eats bananas while listening to a tape of his younger self. Two men in bowler hats talk about life and death. Will Spock be able to work out what they are up to? Will Kirk go against his injunction from Starfleet Command not to interfere in other civilisations and free them from their ordeals?Jane Eyre’s Fifty Shades of GreyPride and Prejudice and Zombies by Jane Austen and Seth Grahame-Smith | Book review Dominance/submission; sadism/masochism; master/servant. It is all there in potentia in Charlotte Brontë’s original. A nice young lady encounters a rich control freak, Christian Rochester, to whom she is inexplicably attracted. At first we think he is gay, but then Jane finds the secret chamber at Thornfield. Jane makes allowances for his interest in BDSM toys (all that apparatus up in the attic) when he tells her that, visiting France as a young man, he was seduced by a heartless actress. But will she sign the weird contract he offers her?Paradise Lost and X-MenJohn Milton was surely a super-hero bard avant la lettre. All those angels tumbling from heaven’s crystal battlements, flying across the universe to visit Earth. Think of the war in heaven, where the fallen angels pit “their engines and their balls / Of missive ruin” against the less well-armed Cherubim. It could surely have profited from the involvement of Wolverine and Gambit, while Satan’s concordat with Magneto would challenge the Archangel Michael, even with his sword that “felled / Squadrons at once, with huge two-handed sway”.The Highbury MysteryMiss Marple arrives to investigate the strange goings-on in a Surrey village. What is Mr Elton really up to? Is Jane Fairfax as demure as she looks? (No!) Should we believe that smooth-talking Frank Churchill? (Absolutely not!) Has anybody paid any attention to what Miss Bates is saying? (Miss Marple would know that the clues are all there in what the stupid people say.) There is even a vicarage and a whist club. But the mashers-up might have to make bad-tempered Mr John Knightley murder Mrs Elton, just to save exasperated Emma from having to do it herself.• John Mullan’s book What Matters in Jane Austen is published by Bloomsbury.