The track that currently gets the most rewinds Murda Beatz ft Pressa: NovacaneI live in Toronto now and Pressa has quickly become a local legend. If the weather is nice out it plays out of every other car with the windows down. He sounds like a cartoon character in the best way and the Murda Beatz production is insanely addictive. I still listen to this song about six times a day.The track I wish I’d signed to my label Evian Christ: Fuck It None of Ya’ll Don’t Rap I was one of the first people to message Evian Christ and couldn’t stop listening to his songs. I asked him about releasing this record but Tri Angle Records beat me by a few days. But honestly I’m glad Tri Angle did it because they really did that record justice.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes November Növelet: Free   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I feel like I gave up the idea of musical listening habits as a badge of cool a very long time ago. When I speak to someone and they only listen to a handful of genres I’m baffled and frankly a bit worried for them. But I guess in my DJ sets people would not see a cold synthpop track coming.The track that got me out of bed this morning Abra: Pull Up   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I usually have one song that I wake up with in my head that I need to hear as quickly as possible, and it’s this right now. How can my day go wrong?The track that should have been a crossover hit Tiga: 3 Rules    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’m the biggest Tiga fan. Obviously making dance music and coming from Montreal I owe a lot to him but also I really enjoy how he’ll inject humour into a world that often so desperately needs it. I wish this became a fondly remembered dance classic.The track I’d play at sunset in Ibiza Denis Sulta: Nein Fortiate I feel like I have no read for what “Ibiza” means now. Is it still dudes in Rick Owens drinking sake playing sub-120bpm lounge tech house or has it gone full EDM? This is more of a 6am keeping the vibe alive record but I feel like end of day Ibiza might be a similar mindset.Jacques Greene plays the Convergence Closing Party at Electric Brixton, SW2, 25 March. The album Feel Infinite is out now