Ibsen meets Snowden: Thomas Ostermeier on An Enemy of the People Shakespeare is the most beautiful language in the world that we have for theatre. Translating it into German, which generally uses many more syllables than English, can be difficult. Marius von Mayenburg translates Shakespeare into prose for all of my productions. Usually in German productions, you listen to a kind of poetic translation that sticks to the blank verse, but you can hardly follow the language because it can’t capture the complex thoughts in Shakespeare’s lines. I believe that part of our success with German audiences is down to the fact that they finally understand what Shakespeare’s characters are talking about.A lot of British theatre directors envy German directors because they see us as being able to modernise Shakespeare through the act of translation itself. But I envy the British directors who can stage the plays in the original language. When I do Shakespeare in German, I try to find some moments where it makes sense to introduce the English text, to give a little glimpse of the power of his original poetry. In Richard III, we do this in Richard’s opening soliloquy and at the end of the play too.When you first look at Richard III, everybody thinks it’s a play about evil. Richard is one of the most famous vice figures in theatre. I became interested in how he entertains the audience and seduces them into following him on each step of his way to power. I found the play to be more about the power of language than his cruelty or physical violence.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A rotten world … Richard III. Photograph: Arno DeclairIt was essential to have Richard (played by Lars Eidinger) address the audience directly, almost like a standup comedian, and keep a very close relationship with them. We reconfigured our smallest stage at the Schaubühne so it felt as if he was among the audience, and installed an architecture that resembled the lines of the Globe in London. The walls of the stage are plastered with wet clay, suggesting a little castle. It could be any castle at any time, with its own little courtyard. I like to use organic materials and also used dry clay on the floor of the stage. It creates a certain atmosphere, which is not so much like looking at a theatre set but lets the audience smell and feel the material. With the clay on the floor, the actors get dirty throughout the play. I like this notion of expensive, beautiful costumes in a rotten world. An amazing pattern is created in the clay – the blood that is spilled stays as a permanent reminder, showing its effects on the characters.A lot of contemporary directors decide to not have Richard with a hunchback. But, for Richard, his disability is part of his suffering, his destiny and why he feels excluded from society. It’s why he has to try to be stronger, faster and smarter than the rest. It’s probably why he is such an incredible warrior in the Wars of the Roses. At the same time, he will not get the fruits of being a warrior – there are so many people between him and the throne. This hierarchy excludes him from power, but also he can’t marry a queen because he is not beautiful enough. A lot of his motives are linked to his physical deformation. Lars wears braces on his teeth, has an over-sized boot and you can clearly see, in the scene where he undresses, that a hump is part of his costume. We wanted to tell the audience that this is a theatre performance – we are telling the story in a self-aware way. Similarly, the princes in the tower become puppets in our production.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beautiful costumes in a rotten world … Richard III. Photograph: Arno DeclairWhen you stage Shakespeare, you have to deal with popular culture. In his time, pop culture was fencing, acrobatics, jokes. Our popular culture is music. My Richard III has a drum kit on stage, there’s rapping and we create a feeling of him being a kind of rock star who seduces the audience. Being drum-based, the music also brings connotations of war.We decided not to stage the full battle at the end of the play but instead create a sort of short physical monologue. I wanted to get into Richard’s head as he is haunted by ghosts and his evil deeds. So we have Lars alone on stage, in his underwear, fighting against shadows and, of course, fighting himself over what he has done. Thomas Ostermeier’s Schaubühne production of Richard III is at the Lyceum, Edinburgh, 24-28 August, as part of the Edinburgh international festival