Who’s Won the White House 7.30pm, BBC1Renowned gracious loser Donald Trump’s threats to refuse to recognise the result of the election notwithstanding, this year’s US presidential campaign should now be done and dusted. But will it be the Democratic moderate or the volatile Republican outsider who has their finger hovering over the button marked “nuclear apocalypse”? This news special looks closely at the results, while The Last Leg lads have a themed show on Channel 4 at 10pm. Gwilym MumfordBlack and British: A Forgotten History 9pm, BBC2Historian David Olusoga explores (and commemorates, with a new set of plaques) the rich history of black Britain, from thousands of black Georgians (ultimately disappeared through intermarriage) to Sarah Forbes Bonetta, Queen Victoria’s African goddaughter. As Mary Beard comments on north African Roman soldiers: “Some of the prejudices we hold haven’t been held for ever. There’s something a bit optimistic about that.” Ali CatterallBritain’s Adoption Scandal: Breaking the Silence 9pm, ITVIn the 30-odd years after the second world war, more than half a million women – mostly young and unmarried, often bewildered and reluctant – were compelled by a combination of church, state, doctors, families and a prevailing societal prurience to give up their children for adoption. This inevitably tough film meets some of the women affected, who discuss their experiences at the time, and the effects since, with heart-rending candour. Andrew MuellerBlack Is the New Black 10pm, BBC2Famous faces from the worlds of politics, sport and the arts discuss the black British experience in a series of intimate and beautifully shot interviews conducted by artist Simon Frederick. Lenny Henry, Thandie Newton and the Guardian’s Gary Younge are among those in conversation: this first episode sees them consider their parents and upbringings. These stories are rarely told on TV, but will be familiar to many. Grace RahmanCrazyhead 9pm, E4The fast-paced, foul-mouthed horror-com from Misfits creator Howard Overman continues; think a sort of scruffier Buffy. DIY demon-bashers Amy and Raquel are still no closer to tracking down the missing Suzanne, though they have a hot lead on Mercy, the diabolical succubus worried about her pelvic floor. But could all their efforts just be playing into dapper archdemon (and insufferable wine snob) Callum’s apocalyptic design? Fizzy and fun. Graeme VirtueDark Heart 9pm, ITV Encore“Dark” remains the mandatory watchword for new drama, it seems. Indeed, this one-off begins far from Bergerac country, with a suspected paedophile found dead with his testicles stuffed in his eye sockets. Tom Riley plays young DI Wagstaffe – a man haunted by his own parents’ murder – seeking a serial killer on a vigilante spree against a string of sex offenders. At least it’s all done and dusted tonight, and they’ve resisted spreading the saga over several seasons. David StubbsThe Great Songwriters 12.10am, Channel 4These kinds of shows generally lean on the canon; the more Ray Davies-ish, Noel Gallaghery end of what songwriting might mean. This series of explanatory conversations and performances, however, begins with the emphatic voice of Public Enemy’s Chuck D. A former college radio DJ from Long Island, he was encouraged to speak his mind by the Shocklee brothers. And so began the first socially conscious hip-hop phenomenon. John RobinsonFilm choiceThe Painted Veil (John Curran, 2006) 11.45pm, BBC1Based on a W Somerset Maugham novel, this slow-burning period romance stars Edward Norton and Naomi Watts as newlyweds relocated to Shanghai. He is a stern scientist, she a feckless socialite, and when he finds she’s been unfaithful, he spitefully drags her off to a remote, cholera-ravaged village by way of punishment. The two leads are excellent, the Chinese landscapes stunning, and there’s an evocative score by Alexandre Desplat. Paul HowlettLive sportSnooker: Champion of Champions Day three from the Ricoh Arena in Coventry, featuring the group four semi-finals, including Mark Allen v Marco Fu. 12.45pm, ITV4Rugby Union: England v France The women’s international from Twickenham Stoop. 7.40pm, Sky Sports 1Test Cricket: India v England The second day of the opening Test from Rajkot. 3.30am, Sky Sports 2