Two weeks in, Pokémon Go fever continues, but as new players join it’s getting difficult to compete in gyms. Here’s some advanced tips to help you get the best out of what you’ve got.1. Level Up      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The level of the Pokémon encountered is directly related to the level of your trainer. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIt sounds obvious, but levelling up your trainer experience will make a big difference in the strength of Pokémon you can capture.Getting experience points is easy, but can be a bit tedious. Hit every Pokéstop, even if your bag is full as you get 50XP from each, capture every Pokémon you encounter as you get at least 100XP from successfully bagging them and try and use advanced capture techniques to gain even more.Finally, if you’re using a lure or incense, or are about to hatch some eggs, use a lucky egg to get a double XP boost.2. Get that ball in the circle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Land it right in Drowzee’s face to gain extra experience and increase the chance of capturing the Pokémon. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianYou can increase the number of XP points you get from captures by landing the Pokéball in the closing circle, gaining at least 10 extra XP points per capture. The smaller the circle is when you hit it the greater the chance of the Pokémon staying locked in the ball too.3. Curveball      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Throw a curve ball or get it in the circle to gain extra experience points. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThere are several ways to throw a curveball. One is to simply bend your throw on the screen before releasing, but another is to make small circles on the screen with the Pokéball before releasing it. Landing a capture with a curveball gives you an extra 10XP and increases the chances of keeping the Pokémon in the ball. A curveball can be combined with the closing circle above for the more skilled.It can be quite difficult to hit the Pokémon with a curveball, so make sure you have plenty of Pokéballs to hand before trying for the first couple of times.4. Power up before evolving      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two Fearows evolved from different level Spearows. The semi-circular bar at the top shows the relative level of the Pokémon; the closer to the end the dot the higher the level. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe strength of an evolved Pokémon is directly related to the strength of the starting beast. Try to capture starting Pokémon with as many combat power (CP) as possible before evolving them. It can also be cheaper to power them up with candy and stardust before evolving them.5. Match your type for battle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Different types of Pokémon fare better against others in battle so choose wisely. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPokémon belong to a couple of classes that offset each other in battle in a rock-paper-scissors-type mechanic. Grass is vulnerable to fire, while fire is vulnerable to water and water is vulnerable to grass, for instance. Attacks on vulnerable Pokémon do at least twice as much damage. Some are immune to attacks, while others have two types, which can either be good – one type negating the weakness of the other – or not so good when weaknesses are combined.It’s worth checking out which Pokémon are in the gym you want to attack before choosing to go into battle to make sure you have the right types of Pokémon to succeed.6. Only start fights you can winAs well type you have to be aware of the opponent’s CP. Like-for-like the higher CP Pokémon should always prevail. It is possible to beat Pokémon with higher CP if type or luck is on your side, however, but big differences in CP are almost impossible to overcome.7. Be quick on the taps and swipesIn battle, your ability to tap and swipe could be the difference between winning and losing. A single tap on the opponent’s Pokémon launches the standard attack. Once the attack bar fills up you can press and hold to unleash a special attack.Meanwhile, swiping left and right will dodge an opponent’s attack if timed right, which can help save your Pokémon from being knocked out.8. Hold gyms to gain PokécoinsYou can buy Pokécoins with real money, but you can also earn them by holding gyms, including those that you’re just supporting as part of your team, which makes it worth seeking them out.Pokécoins can then be used to buy a bigger bag or Pokémon storage upgrade. A bigger bag helps with carrying all the lures, potions, revives incense, lucky eggs, razz berries and Pokéballs.14 essential tips to get you started in Pokémon Go