Critics were captivated by The Wicked Boy, Kate Summerscale’s investigation of an 1895 killing of a mother by her 13-year-old son. The author “is an exquisite storyteller”, wrote Daisy Goodwin in the Times. “She is judicious with her use of detail, subtle in her unspoken connections between the past and the present … This is the story of one wicked boy, but it is also a plea for compassion and empathy.” In the Mail on Sunday, Craig Brown found parallels “with contemporary high-school killings in America, or, at other times, the Jamie Bulger case”, and described the book as “a fascinating account of a murder and its endless reverberations”, even if, in his view, it didn’t quite reach the heights of Summerscale’s biggest success, The Suspicions of Mr Whicher. John Carey in the Sunday Times welcomed it as “challenging and significant. As always, her research is needle-sharp and her period detail richly atmospheric … But what is most heartening about this truly remarkable book is the story of real-life redemption that it brings to light.” However Daisy Hay, in the Daily Telegraph, remained frustrated that Summerscale was not able to uncover “the truth at the heart of Robert’s story. Inevitably, none of the sources comes close to explaining why it was that he killed his mother.”The first short story collection from Helen Oyeyemi, What’s Yours Is Not Yours, also found many admirers. The collection “revels in its lack of readerly assurance, luxuriates in the meddlesome and ludic nature of the imagination, and finds unexpected possibilities lurking inside every character and situation,” wrote Stuart Evers in the Independent. For Laura van den Berg, in the New York Times, “Oyeyemi so expertly melds the everyday, the fantastic and the eternal, we have to ask if the line between ‘real’ and ‘unreal’ is murkier than we imagined – or to what extent a line exists at all … the collection is even more urgently united by the author’s playful, inventive sensibility. Oyeyemi has created a universe that dazzles and wounds.” In the Observer, Lucy Scholes was more circumspect, finding that although some stories “cast a less powerful spell than others … as a rule any impenetrability is counterbalanced by inviting, luscious prose.” For Kate Saunders, in the Times, “these short stories are pure, sensuous enjoyment, packed with colour and passion”.Catherine Fletcher’s biography of the 16th-century Italian nobleman Alessandro Medici, The Black Prince of Florence, was hailed by Frances Wilson in the Daily Telegraph as an “important study … Fletcher’s painstaking archival work restores the texture of the duke’s world.” In the Financial Times, Matthew Lyon also praised Fletcher for “creating a compelling portrait of a forgotten man – himself both brutal and brutalised – once at the very heart of the Renaissance world order”. Dan Jones wrote in the Sunday Times that “among many unsettled questions is whether Alessandro was, to use the modern idiom, a person of colour. This, and much else besides, is unpacked and intelligently worked over in The Black Prince of Florence.” In the Spectator’s Alex von Tunzelmann Fletcher found another fan. “Her approach is scholarly yet dramatic, immersed in Rennaisance glamour … Fletcher’s engrossing biography is a true step forward in our knowledge of this intriguing man.”