The first time Nasa tried to launch a satellite into orbit, in December 1957, the rocket made it 4ft off the ground before crumpling into a blossom of smoke and fire. America’s ambitions to catch up to Russia’s success with Sputnik would have to wait.Almost 60 years later, private spaceflight company SpaceX is feeling similarly explosive growing pains. From the same launch center at Cape Canaveral, Florida, a reusable Falcon 9 rocket exploded on the launch pad on Thursday morning in a blast that could be felt miles away and that destroyed a satellite meant to expand internet access.The company’s founder and CEO, tech billionaire Elon Musk, has said that the rocket exploded “during propellant fill operation” and that the blast “originated around upper stage oxygen tank”. Musk has stayed stoical about the company’s accidents, and SpaceX itself only gave an engineer’s euphemism for the explosion in its first statement, describing the blast as “an anomaly on the pad”.SpaceX mission could herald new era of reusable rockets The history of spaceflight is littered with explosions, accidents and disasters: SpaceX has had its share but has avoided tragedy or injury. Nasa has contracted the company to help take supplies to the International Space Station, and together the organizations hope to bring manned launches back to American launch pads in 2017. SpaceX’s year of success and failure has cast that schedule into doubt.The boomsSpaceX has had more success than failure in the 14 years since it was founded, when Musk set out with about 30 employees to revolutionize spaceflight with reusable rockets – the kind that can save small fortunes in fuel and technology with every landing. In December 2010, SpaceX became the first private company to send a spacecraft into low-Earth orbit and back, and a year and a half later it became the first to dock at the International Space Station. That same year it first resupplied the station, and by 2014 it won a $2.6bn Nasa contract alongside Boeing to take US astronauts into space.On 21 December 2015, the company managed its first landing of a reusable rocket – just under a month after a rival spaceflight company, headed by Amazon billionaire Jeff Bezos, achieved a similar landing with a smaller vehicle. Then on 8 April 2016, after four failures during the past year, the company landed a reusable rocket on a drone ship floating in the Atlantic ocean, the first ever landing at sea. In the next eight months the company repeated the feat six times in all, four at sea and twice on land. Since 2012 it has had 18 successful payload deliveries.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket successfully lands on ocean platformThe bustsThose accomplishments have not come without repeated failures, the most spectacular of which occurred during attempts to land their Falcon 9 rockets, named after Star Wars’ Millennium Falcon. After proving the rockets could lift supplies to astronauts in orbit, SpaceX began testing their abilities to land on a robotic drone ship out at sea – unmanned for safety, and mobile to meet the rocket, if a little unsteady. Musk has described the feat as “like trying to balance a rubber broomstick on your hand in the middle of a wind storm”.Elon Musk (@elonmusk)Looks like Falcon landed fine, but excess lateral velocity caused it to tip over post landing pic.twitter.com/eJWzN6KSJaApril 14, 2015On 10 January 2015, the first landing attempt by a rocket “landed hard”, in Musk’s words, crashing onto the ship after it ran out of hydraulic fuel to fire engines that slowed its descent. On 14 April, another landing failed after the rocket’s landing legs struck the barge “too hard for survival” – the rocket tipped over and careered off to the side.On 28 June, the company’s string of failures continued, when a rocket disintegrated shortly after liftoff and destroyed its cargo of supplies meant for the ISS. The blast was blamed on a faulty strut, supposed to hold a tank of intensely pressurized helium, that Musk said appeared “to be incorrectly made but with no visible way of determining that from the outside”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Nasa SpaceX rocket explodes moments after launchOn 17 January 2016, Musk and his engineers were back to struggling with the barge. Fighting through rough weather, a Falcon 9 rocket landed at the right speed but one of its legs failed to latch on the platform. The rocket keeled over and exploded, with Musk commenting: “Definitely harder to land on a ship. Similar to an aircraft carrier vs land: much smaller target area, that’s also translating [and] rotating.”In March they saw another failed landing, but Musk was unfazed by the difficult conditions of attempted landings, tweeting: “Didn’t expect this one to work (v hot reentry), but next flight has a good chance.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket lands, then falls over and explodesThe futureMusk has handled SpaceX’s crashes stoically, reasoning that progress requires failures – science is messy. Nasa, for instance, has had contractors mix up metric measurements, lost a lander somewhere on Mars, and its Kepler spacecraft jerry-rigged into a planet hunter sailing on pressure from radiation off the sun. In recent years, Russia’s space agency has lost control of a cargo ship, and had repeated malfunctions and engine failures.Like Nasa, Musk remains ambitious. Earlier this year he announced that SpaceX intends to send an unmanned mission to Mars by 2018, to investigate the demands of a later crewed mission. The company has also won a contract to launch one of its used rockets with a payload; Thursday’s launch involved a new rocket.Nasa’s inspector general doused cold water on some of those aspirations in an audit released Thursday. The mission to take astronauts into space from US launchpads “continues to face multiple challenges that will likely delay the first routine flight”, the office said in its report. The US will continue relying on foreign agencies, such as Russia’s Roscosmos, to launch astronauts “until late 2018 – more than 3 years after NASA’s original 2015 goal”, the auditors added.