No desk, or office as such, I tend to write my poems on the hoof. They are often written in a rush while on the underground along the stretch of Metroland from King's Cross to Uxbridge, in the bedroom at night or while in a cafe. I prefer this write-wherever-whenever approach because it connects me to my first joys of writing verse when I would write purely to communicate with something innate in me and without any vanity for praise and recognition. I would hate my writing to feel like a day job, something that can only be “properly” done at a desk.The closest I have to an office is the kitchen-dining room table where I can look out on to the garden and watch chubby pigeons on the decking or squirrels on the fence in my family home in Harrow. If I ever have a spare day, I will walk my daughters to school and work until the end of the school day when I pick them up.For these six hours, I settle myself on a dining chair and tap away on my laptop with music in the background. I rarely write without music. I love playing lively rock albums to get my heartbeat racing, to get me out of my normal logical mind so I enter the dimensions of the poem and walk around inside them. It might sound weird but I tend to play the same album for a few weeks at a time while working on the same poem; my current choice is the Jam’s 1980 album Sound Affects.When in the dining room, I might type the first draft of a poem I have been constructing in my head over hours, days or in some cases a year. More often, though, I will be looking through the tiny bits of paper covered in my minuscule black Bic handwriting that have been squashed in the front pocket of my rucksack. These tend to be notes for an emerging poem that’s been in my head, which I’ve made when out and about. I place this mass of notes in a pile by my laptop and type them up to create the poem or use them to edit existing poems. This process is exhausting yet exciting as I hope my fragments will turn into something permanent. I think I prefer to use little bits of scrap paper rather than a notebook as it feels less final and more disposable. I never trust a poem until I’ve had at least a few tiffs with it During my writing day I tend to drink copious amounts of weak instant coffee. I eat a light and healthy lunch and try to get out to the gym to counter the physical impact of being sedentary and to give me mental energy. I need this physical exercise to keep me upbeat and my poems enlivened.Richard Sennett, in The Craftsman, discusses the violinist Isaac Stern’s belief that the more varied the craftsman’s technique the greater the pleasure while engaged in the art form. I have Sennett’s Isaac Stern Rule in mind when editing a poem. I interpret it to mean that the poem must be kept alive for as long as possible. So I avoid regarding it as finished, and keep applying different approaches to see if it can be improved. I change the shape of the poem, alter line breaks, mess about with the rhythms, shift the perspective and remove openings and endings. I have shelves of poetry books in the dining room because I am always referring to classic poems to see what problems other poets might have created and how these problems might have been resolved. I refer to Keats, Auden or Yeats in particular, to inspire me into having a tiff with my work. Most of the pleasure of writing is in this tiff-making, giving the poem a problem then trying to solve it. I never trust a poem until I’ve had at least a few tiffs with it.Every year or two, I will sit down and submit some of my poems to magazines for publication. I do this partly to assess if the poems are any good so I turn this nervous process, of possible rejection, to my advantage; if a poem receives a couple of rejections I usually decide it needs significant improvements. If it is accepted by a magazine, I like to see it in the cold and detached light alongside poems by other poets. This process helps me see it afresh and decide what further alterations are needed, as even when a poem has been published it may not be in its final form.• Daljit Nagra's new collection, British Museum, is published by Faber.In brief6 hours • 53 words (if cowpat is one word) • 9 cups of coffee • checked email 10 times • played the Jam’s Sound Affects 6 times