A small army of Dick Whittingtons and a tribe of cats have arrived at the Guildhall library in London, which was founded using the real medieval mayor’s legacy, in a bequest from an eccentric American collector.The treasury includes books, games and puzzles, glass magic lantern slides, pantomime programmes and posters, and a unique copy of a tiny hand-coloured early 19th-century book. All are related to the legend of the poor boy leaving the city in despair until he heard the sound of Bow Bells, and was urged by his cat to turn back and make his fortune – and thrice become mayor of London.They were the gift of Ellery Yale Wood, a New Yorker from a wealthy Pennsylvania Quaker background, who moved to England in the 1950s when her marriage broke up, got a job in a London bookshop and developed a serious collecting habit. It progressed after she moved to Wisbech in Cambridgeshire with her partner, Eric Golding, a book dealer, and bought a large Georgian house with an adjoining barn.“She was an extraordinarily difficult woman, and I say that now with a certain admiration,” said Brian Lake, of the antiquarian book dealers Jarndyce.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A book from Yale Wood’s collection. Photograph: Carl Court/Getty Images“On one visit she told me she had bought a first edition of Harry Potter, for some four or five thousand pounds, because she thought she should have one. ‘I think I put it over there,’ she said vaguely, and so she had – we eventually found it under 3ft of papers, plastic bags and cat tins.“On one occasion we were clearing an upstairs room, and we found a large sofa and a desk that we hadn’t even realised were there.”  Lake recalled her as highly intelligent and very determined. The chaos increased after Golding died 10 years ago, Lake said, until her own death in 2013. “I don’t think she necessarily wanted to do anything with all the stuff she had, and she didn’t care whether it was a £2 china cat from a junk shop or a magnificent £20,000 bronze – she wanted something, she bought it, that was enough,” he said.She was very clear that all the Dick Whittington material, which Lake had to sort out from the boxes and crates and bags of stuff, was to go to the Guildhall library, where Peter Ross, the principal librarian, was astonished.The library was founded in 1425 with money left by Dick Whittington, who did indeed become mayor three times, and one of the richest men in England.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Dick Whittington sheet print dating from 1750, part of the Guildhall collection. Photograph: Carl Court/Getty Images“I had never met or even heard of her, until we got a letter from her solicitor after her death,” Ross said of Yale Wood. “But she obviously knew of the Dick Whittington connection. As we unpacked the boxes we were completely astonished at the material. Some we knew of but didn’t have in our collection, others are quite hard to catalogue because they are evidently completely unique, like the tiny hand-coloured book.“We were already working on an exhibition to celebrate our 600th anniversary in nine years’ time, and some of this material will certainly be included.”Yale Wood also bequeathed a vast collection of children’s books to her old college in the US, Bryn Mawr, which held a ceremony earlier this year to celebrate the opening of the first of 634 boxes, whose contents now fill a block of shelves in the library.There had been some confusion about the bequeathed cats. Ross said: “We’ve got some Puss in Boots, and they’ve got some of Dick’s cats, so we’re going to arrange some exchanges.”Apart from the thousands of objects she bequeathed, a local auction after Yale Wood’s death included scores of pottery models and paintings of cats, toy soldiers, Victorian cameras, military buttons, first world war home guard uniforms, a crate of books about Manchester United, 58 Rupert Bear annuals and an original 1960s Mary Quant head scarf.• This article was amended on 29 July 2016. An earlier version said incorrectly that Brian Lake was Ellery Yale Wood’s executor. He has acted as an adviser on book collections both to Yale Wood and to the executors of her will.