Prince came close to completing the lead song for Baz Luhrmann’s The Great Gatsby, the director revealed on Saturday at the Tribeca film festival.The film-maker, speaking during the event’s final director’s series panel, said the track was a re-working of the Martika song Love Thy Will Be Done and was initially meant to serve as the 2013 film’s theme. But the song was a “co-owned piece”, Luhrmann said, so Lana Del Rey recorded the film’s eventual lead track, Young and Beautiful.“He is what he appears to be: just one of a kind,” Luhrmann said of the late musician. “There’s only one Prince, and it’s a great sadness that he’s no longer with us.”Baz Luhrmann on The Great Gatsby: 'Fitzgerald was a clown, just like I am' Prince was weaved into the conversation by moderator Nelson George, a historian and one of the writers on Luhrmann’s upcoming Netflix series, The Get Down. George also prodded Luhrmann about the a capella rendition of When Doves Cry featured in 1996’s Romeo + Juliet. Luhrmann said the song was included not to appeal to the MTV generation, but to pay homage to what he described as a tradition of Elizabethan theater to insert popular songs into plays.“What I wanted to signal to our audience was you could take something you knew and interpret it in a different way,” he added. “We said what if you took that iconic dance track and made it into this pure, religious wedding song. So it’s looking at something, turning it over, using it and interpreting it in a different way.”Later in the talk, Luhrmann, who’s developed a hyper-stylized brand over the years, stressed that he also admires smaller-scaled “psychological dramas”, and cited Tom McCarthy’s recent best picture Oscar winner, Spotlight, as an example. “Spotlight is so beautifully observed,” Luhrmann said. “It’s a keyhole drama. You’re meant to forget your presence, but most importantly the storyteller’s presence.”Asked why he has moved away from making such films, Luhrmann recalled his childhood in Australia, where he watched outsized films such as Citizen Kane and Gone with the Wind. “I was fed at a very early age on this romantic and expressionistic, heightened cinema that was being reacted against as I was growing up,” Luhrmann said. “I got lumbered with that one.”Luhrmann stressed that during the large, elaborate party sequences that have become characteristic of his work, he treats the background talent (AKA the extras) like actors in the film. “Everyone is acting,” Luhrmann said. “I want everyone not to be scared of the stars. I want them to go up to them and touch them and really be visceral in the scene. It’s my job to lead the energy. I want the audience to believe that the parties are real.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Such sequences feature prominently in The Get Down, Luhrmann’s 13-episode series, the first half of which starts streaming on 12 August. The show centers on what Luhrmann described as the “pre-history” of hip-hop as it emerged from New York in the late 70s. Luhrmann said he was first drawn to the subject matter 10 years ago. “I was fascinated by New York City’s transformation,” he said. “How did so much creativity come out of these boroughs and transform not just the city, but the whole globe?”“There is no precedent for what we’re making,” Luhrmann teased. “Where I tend to want to go, there is no real precedent for it.”Luhrmann joked that he’s “tempted to retire” after the demanding project. Asked if a return to adapting Shakespeare is in the cards, Luhrmann said that if he “got a second wind, I’d do the primary Shakespeare pieces”.“If there were more than one of me, there are so many things I do for the joy of it, and one of those would be to return to the Shakespeare canon to answer this thrilling question of how would Shakespeare make a movie. When you work on a Shakespeare text, your life is nourished. So I hope so!”