But for a bed, a dresser, a mirror, a desk and a few scattershot piles of junk, the room is empty. The door is locked. Time is perilously short: you have 10 seconds till your abusive partner swaggers in, spoiling for another fight. Can you evade the seemingly inevitable? Now you’re a lonely parent, trying everything you can to quell the distraught cries of your terminally ill child. Now you’re an immigrant, fresh to America, hawking newspapers on the commuter trail. Sales are few and your rent is high. You arrive home to your forsaken flat to find a scrawled note from your landlord: lose the cat – your only companion – or face eviction.In the beginning, video game designers looked not to cinema but to sport for inspiration. Pong, Atari’s rudimentary game in which you bat a phosphorous ball across an onyx screen, is tennis redacted. Space Invaders is clay pigeon shooting on the day of Armageddon. Pac-Man is a game of famished hide-and-seek. These days, however, video game designers are searching closer to home for inspiration. 10 Seconds in Hell uses the medium to communicate the abject terror of the domestic abuse victim. That Dragon, Cancer is an unflinching document of a family’s experience of a child’s illness and death. Cart Life offers an affecting study of contemporary life in America for those working on the poverty line.These are just some of the examples of games attempting to explore more solemn, weightier subjects. There are many more – albeit primarily from independent sectors; no major studio has yet attempted a Schindler’s List-style blockbuster, therefore the commercial viability of such an endeavour is uncertain, even if scores of designers are surely eager to take on such an artistic challenge. Big Pharma, for example, explores the complexities of running a pharmaceutical company, balancing the need to make profits with the business of curing disease. Phone Story examines the plight of sweatshop workers assembling smartphones for western clients. Coming Out Simulator 2014 is an autobiographical game about a young man’s attempts to tell his parents about his sexual orientation.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 10 Seconds in Hell trailerThe late film critic Roger Ebert once described film as “a machine that generates empathy”. Film, he argued, allows us to “understand a little bit more about different hopes, aspirations, dreams and fears”. Video games, in allowing us to inhabit others’ shoes and to experience at first hand (or at least second) the challenges others endure, are even better poised to generate empathy. Through them, we may experience something of the life of another from the inside.This theory inspired the US ad agency McKinney to create Spent, an online game about surviving poverty and homelessness. The game was intended to create understanding between players and people living in poverty – a noble goal. In the game you must survive for one month on $1,000, choosing whether to, for example, make a minimal payment on the family credit card or use the money to pay the rent.That Dragon, Cancer: the video game that takes death seriously A video game seems like an ideal way to explore the impossible choices with which one is faced while living in poverty. A study carried out by Psychology Today, however, found that, for many, playing the game had no effect on positive feelings toward the poor. “In fact, the game had a negative effect on attitudes among certain participants – including some people who were sympathetic to the poor to begin with,” states the article’s author. Blame rests, she argues, with the game’s mechanics, which leave players with the impression that people living in poverty are able to change their circumstances simply by changing their choices.Yes, games can inform us, create empathy and deepen our understanding of social systems. That same power also enables them to enforce problematic values in profound ways. This tool, whose power is only beginning to be explored, must be wielded with care.