What a corker was movie week! Despite the awful loss of Tameka and Gorka. (I could have tried to rhyme that, but I will leave that sort of thing to Bruno and Len’s scriptwriters.) Tameka was a shock exit, especially in the same week the EastEnders actor won the audience vote to bag an Inside Soap award. It seems odd that popularity didn’t transfer. Maybe if she had been paired with a better-known pro dancer...? But we will never know.The judges were in an ebullient mood. Len even took to the floor during Len’s Lens to demonstrate his two favourite moves, the coup de pique and the fishtail. “It doesn’t really look anything like a fishtail, though, does it?” he added, helpfully.Strictly Come Dancing: week three – as it happened No expense was spared with the costumes and set this week. You might as well go the whole hog before Channel 4 buys it. (I am assured this cannot happen.) And the choice of movies was hilarious. Strictly has to hit such a broad demographic – it must appeal simultaneously to three-year-olds, teenage hipsters defecting from The X Factor and 103-year-olds. This can result in some weird mashups. The King and I featuring Brendan fully bald? And Beverly Hills Cop? Come on. Possibly this is what hurt Tameka: no one under 35 will have a reference point for the film or for Glenn Frey’s 1984 bangin’ tune The Heat Is On. Meanwhile my kids had absolutely no idea who or what Zorro was. Looking forward to a Dads’ Army group dance next week. Darcey: woman of a thousand hairstyles      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Was it Beverly Hills Cop that finally did for Tameka? Photograph: BBC/Guy LevyDarcey was refreshingly free with her criticism this week. Perhaps this is a natural progression: in the beginning she’s encouraging, but now the competition is hotting up. All the judges implied that Tameka and Laura should not have been in the dance-off. This is where they get serious about their marks and attempt to say to the audience: “Listen to us. Send Ed Balls home.” I predict one more week’s grace and then they’ll get nasty. Darcey was (rightly, unfortunately) harsh on Tameka: “I would have loved it to be crisper.” Weirdly, though, she was the only judge to vote for Tameka. Feeling guilty? Mildly disappointed that she didn’t come out with an expletive when critiquing Lesley: “You are some fit ... bunny.”Bruno: the jack-in-the-boxBruno’s Flashdance moves had to be seen to be believed and, thanks to Len’s Lens, we got to relive them. Of course Bruno has extensive dance training and before he became the hyperactive Strictly judge we love he had a long and distinguished career as a dancer and choreographer. However. Whenever he dances, he looks like a three-year-old who has had too much fizzy pop. Don’t go changing, Bruno.Len: the diamond geezer on a farewell tourLen had taken a chill pill for movie week and appeared to be in a joyous mood. This was not even dented by the physical necessity of avoiding whiplash while craning away from Bruno during an energetic recreation of Will Young’s Bollywood salsa. (I often wonder whether Len is retiring simply to protect the left-hand side of his body from Bruno’s repeated onslaughts.) I thought Len would melt when he was praising Ore for his Singing in the Rain performance. And as for Joanne Clifton ... well, she is clearly teacher’s (Len’s) pet, has won the golden ticket and is also the producers’ flavour of the month, securing a superbly executed role as the leading lady in Sunday night’s dreamy group dance (the one where Giovanni was meant to look cool while getting off with a mop). Len flashed his incisors at the dance-off, though. He’ll really lose his patience if the audience keep voting through the numpties.Craig: the great choreographer trapped inside a pantomime dame      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Craig is rarely wrong … Judge Rinder’s faces are getting annoying now. Photograph: BBC/Guy LevyClearly Craig decided to lay off the Judge Rinder rivalry and postpone the inevitable camp-off for now. Rinder’s faces are divisive: on the one hand, they are keeping him in the competition. On the other hand, are they getting annoying, as Craig predicted? Craig is rarely wrong about things. Just sometimes the rest of us are a beat behind him. (Just like Judge Rinder.)This week’s verdictLaura is vulnerable after this week’s dance-off and the wobbliness of her dancing. I predict a swift turn to blond too. Ore is the one to watch: he’s gaining in confidence and his partnership with Joanne is sweet. Natalie and Greg are not to be under-estimated. Anastacia needs to up her game to stay in. And Danny Mac is still way ahead of the pack. 