The High Line, an elevated railway turned park in New York City, is getting a new addition and with it, a new, permanent location for temporary art installations – the High Line Plinth.As those who have visited the High Line know, it has already been the home to various temporary art installations – from Tony Matelli’s startlingly lifelike Sleepwalker, part of the park’s Wanderlust installation, to a mural from artist Barbara Kruger, both currently on display.“For me, this project is an extension of what we do every day on the High Line, which is to bring a great example of contemporary art or culture in general to our audience free of charge, every day of the year, rain or shine,” said Cecilia Alemani, director and chief curator of High Line Art.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simone Leigh, Cupboard VII, 2016 (rendering of the plinth). Photograph: Architectural rendering by James Corner Field Operations and Diller Scofidio + Renfro, courtesy of the City of New York;artwork courtesy of the artist.The difference is that this new plinth will be the first spot along the High Line specifically dedicated to artwork, whereas art in other locations “has always been within the fabric of the High Line itself”, said Alemani.The plinth will be the focal point of the Spur, a cul-de-sac-like section of the High Line which is currently under construction at 30th Street and 10th Avenue. Alemani described the forthcoming space as feeling like a public square, as opposed to the High Line’s typical pathways. “Here we expect people to use the space in a different way because basically it’s a dead end,” she said, with a hope being that it will become a destination and point of conversation. There will be a 10ft x 10ft area in the center of the Spur for artists to display their work, which will be on view for 18 months, the curator said.Thumbs up to David Shrigley's fabulously feel-bad fourth plinth Alemani related this new location for artwork to London’s Fourth Plinth, which brings a rotation of art to Trafalgar Square. “There’s always so many discussions and conversations around it,” she said of the plinth in London. “I think that’s what ours should do … They might dislike it, they might be bored by it, or they might love it, but it’s in that kind of friction where the power of art happens.” Unlike the Fourth Plinth, this plinth may change appearance depending on the desires of the artist. To determine the first two artists whose work will be featured on the plinth, High Line Art used an advisory committee “to get suggestions for names so they wouldn’t just come from me”, Alemani said. From a list of 50 proposals, they created a short list of 12, including artists Charles Gaines, Haim Steinbach, Cosima von Bonin and others. The proposals vary widely, from Gaines’s Tilted Tower to Lena Henke’s Ascent of a Woman.New York's historic elevated train line becomes a park From February to April, models of the potential artworks will be on display, with an opportunity for public comment. Alemani also said they would be contacting community groups for feedback. The first two artists will be chosen in May of this year, and the plinth will open at some point in 2018, after the construction of the Spur is completed.Outside of the High Line, New York is already known for public artwork like Tony Rosenthal’s Alamo (also known as Astor Place Cube), a permanent artwork which had just recently been reinstalled after months of maintenance, or Martin Creed’s Understanding, a temporary, neon installation which was located at Brooklyn Bridge Park’s Pier 6 until last October.