I grew up surrounded by people exploring their own trips, in the very progressive city of Berkeley in California – my parents are both writers. They were really involved in their own world, so I was not coddled. I have a big brother who would make dolls’ houses and playhouses and furniture out of wood. He was the one who taught me from such a young age that you could just make something. The physical act of gluing something together was really formative for me. I once saw a man harassing a woman on the street. I stepped up with the intention of physically assaulting him If I have an idea, I have to write it down right then. Sometimes I’ll turn and write something down on my phone, and now my four-year-old son has just started saying: “Oh, do you have an idea?” Part of me is like, oh shit, I’ve been busted that I’m not thinking about him. On the other hand, I guess he’s learning about the importance of writing down an idea.I’ve always had a dog phobia. But in my defence, I’m married to one of the greatest dog-lovers on earth. When I met my husband [director Mike Mills], he already had two dogs, and I think we both downplayed our relationship to dogs at the beginning. My grandpa had a personal guard dog. Sometimes I’d be told: “Go kiss Grandpa, we’ll hold back Sam.” Samantha would be seething and going wild as I crept towards my grandpa, who I didn’t want to kiss anyway.My husband and I are two people who never thought we’d be married. We were two people who frankly thought we’d be fine if we weren’t married, and decided to try it… until it sails off. Everyone’s ready at all times to have to be alone. I don’t know if I’m recommending this, but it really keeps it new. It’s been 12 years and it’s more or less like our first date. I’m still totally into it.We met when we were both fully formed. We met at Sundance with our first movies. He was one of the men I was competing with; one of the men I vanquished. So in a way, no one was guiding the other on how to live. It was more like, well, this is working fine, but maybe there’s a way that life could be better. Let’s just see.I have female friends who work in all different mediums who I speak to at least once a week. It helps me so much to know that I’m not alone. I think that’s the bare minimum you need to sustain yourself – some sort of context of other women making things.I was so punk and uninvested in the mainstream [when starting her feminist film archive Joanie 4 Jackie], that I had forgotten the mainstream matters. Just because I had made an underground feminist network that served me and a few hundred women, didn’t mean that world at large had survived. And that that mattered to me.Most artists will say, if you’re forever chasing prizes, it’s just going to be an unhappy life. The Joanie 4 Jackie principles were trying to come up with other ways to feel good making things, and that’s all still true. Once you do get prizes and you see what that feels like, you see both what’s meaningful about it – it means you can keep making work and you can reach an audience – but at the same time it doesn’t sustain you creatively.In New York once, I saw a man harassing a woman on the street. I stepped up with the intention of physically assaulting him. My husband held me back. This guy just stopped of his own accord and wandered off. Lucky for him! That’s the only time I go from 0 to 60. Usually I jump in when there’s some sort of public injustice that apparently I need to be the saviour of.When I was 28, I went into anaphylactic shock. I was rushed to the ER and filled with adrenaline to bring my heart back. The doctors said: “A minute later and you would have been dead.” All I remember is that as I was fading out of consciousness, my boyfriend at the time and I looked at each other, and there was this basic knowledge exchange between our eyes – we don’t love each other. It was the beginning of the end. Later he acknowledged that, too. It’s kind of heartless, I know: “She’s not the one, which is a good thing, because she might be dying.”See Miranda July’s feminist film archive at joanie4jackie.com 