A great uncle of the jockey Lester Piggott appeared as a character in James Joyce’s novel Ulysses, according to a new book on the Irish author’s masterpiece.As Joyce admirers around the world celebrate and even re-enact scenes from arguably the 20th century’s most famous novel, which is set on just one day, 16 June 1904, a fresh study of the 600-plus characters in the text has thrown up the connection with the racing champion’s family.Vivien Igoe’s book The Real People of Joyce’s Ulysses explores the lineage of Piggotts’ great uncle, the jockey Herbert “Morny” Cannon. In Ulysses, one of the principal characters, the Jewish Dubliner Leopold Bloom, muses about the rider and his mount at the Epsom Gold Cup taking place that day. “Zinfandel’s the favourite, lord Howard de Walden’s, won at Epsom. Morny Cannon is riding him,” Bloom ponders.Igoe points out that after Cannon retired from racing he lived in Brighton for may years until his death aged 89. Cannon, like Piggott, was a racing phenomenon and rode his first winner at the age of 13.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Joyce (1882-1941), photographed in 1934. Photograph: Roger ViolletJoyce does not mention if Bloom put any money on Cannon on the day of his famous sojourn across Dublin, which was just as well as the horse named Throwaway, an outside bet at 20-1, won the Gold Cup on the day of 16 June 1904.In her exploration of some of the main British characters who crop up across the 265,222-word novel, Igoe also found other real-life figures ranging from cricketers to bawdy actors.In another of Bloom’s reflections he says “Captain Buller broke a window in the Kildare street club with a slog to square leg”. Charles Buller played for Middlesex as well as a travelling club called I Zingari, which was founded in 1845. I Zingari regularly played in Dublin’s Phoenix park on the same crease where the Irish nationalist leader Charles Stewart Parnell batted. When Buller died at the age of 60 in Dorset, his obituary referred to him as “one of the most attractive of batsmen, and, perhaps the handsomest man the cricket field has ever known”.Other famous Edwardian figures in Joyce’s novel include Grace Darling, the daughter of a lighthouse keeper, who, in 1838 at the age of 22 rowed in a storm towards the wrecked ship SS Forfarshire with her father and helped rescue nine people. On his way around Dublin, Bloom also sees William Humble Ward, lord lieutenant of Ireland, who later became the governor of Australia between 1908 to 1911, before fighting in the first world war.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Bloomsday street party in Dublin this June. Photograph: Ruth Medjber/James Joyce CentreBloomsday, an annual celebration of James Joyce, is a landmark date in the Irish cultural calendar and marked around the world. In Dublin thousands take to the streets on 16 June to stage scenes from Ulysses.The James Joyce Centre, in North Great George’s Street, Dublin, will offer up a breakfast based on the one Bloom cooked at home – it includes nutty gizzards, kidneys and sheep’s heart. Later in the day the centre will provide a bus to take Joycean admirers to the Martello tower at Sandycove, Dublin Bay, where the novel opens with reference to “stately plump Buck Mulligan” shaving while pretending to perform the Catholic mass.There will also be open-air readings of extracts from Ulysses in Dublin’s Temple Bar district by, among others, the leading Joyce scholar and Ireland’s most famous gay rights activist, Senator David Norris. Thousands are expected to attend events in pubs mentioned in the novel and at Glasnevin cemetery wearing period costumes from the Edwardian era.