The largest and oldest site in Melbourne’s “arts precinct”, the National Gallery of Victoria’s main site NGV International is, plainly, a monolith: a hulking slab of grey stone with entrances and exits seemingly carved out as an afterthought. The gallery has an esoteric air about it, which it has earned the right to: the NGV is the largest and most visited art gallery in Australia and the 23rd most visited gallery in the world, with around 2.3 million visitors each year.But in the eyes of some, NGV International has a gender representation issue. In a recent blog post titled NGV #cockfest, Melbourne arts blogger Natalie Thomas took the gallery to task for its lack of non-male representation in the annual Melbourne Winter Masterpieces series, its permanent collections and its headline exhibitions.In the post, Thomas criticises the gallery for consistently showcasing the art of “more white European men than you can shake a stick at”, describing the gallery’s curatorial decisions as “retrograde and boring”. The main offender is NGV International’s arm of the major annual series Winter Masterpieces, which according to Creative Victoria aims to “balance curatorial excellence with popular appeal”. The gallery will announce its 2017 iteration of the series on Friday, along with its full autumn/winter season.Women in art: why are all the 'great' artists men? So far the NGV’s Winter Masterpieces has presented almost exclusively the work of male European artists. Of the 13 exhibitions, six have focused on men and the other seven were group shows which predominantly comprised works by men. Only 2015’s Masterpieces from the Hermitage was focused on a woman – but Catherine the Great was a collector, not an artist.NGV International’s latest Winter Masterpiece is Degas: A New Vision, which closes to the public on Sunday.“Women and girls are everywhere in this show, but strangely absent too,” writes Thomas. Despite the fact the majority of Degas’ work explores femininity and the female body, the show, she says, fails to provide a female perspective.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Evie Ferris of the Australian Ballet poses beside work by Edgar Degas at NGV International. Photograph: Wayne TaylorThe NGV’s curatorial staff contend that the lack of representation in Winter Masterpieces is balanced by diversity across the rest of the gallery’s collection.“The NGV is committed to a balanced exhibition program and collection, with a diversity of subject matter, artists, art movements, media, cultures and gender represented,” says Isobel Crombie, assistant director of curatorial and collection management. Crombie lists the gallery’s current focus on contemporary Pacific art – including work by Lisa Reihana, Robin White and Ruha Fifita – as among the exhibitions which, together, feature 27 female artists. But these artworks and exhibitions are dwarfed by the major exhibitions, with recent announcements highlighting forthcoming solo shows for Lee Mingwei, Viktor & Rolf and David Hockney – but none for women. The 2018 Winter Masterpieces exhibition, Masterworks from MoMA, will be the largest ever show in the series with around 150 works, but only one woman was listed among the 12 “iconic figures” in the first announcement.New survey paints grim picture of gender balance in Australian visual arts Gender inequality in major exhibitions isn’t limited to NGV International. A 2015 report by the Art Newspaper revealed that of 590 solo shows in 68 institutions around the United States between 2007-2013, 73% featured male artists. This year, Melbourne artist Elvis Richardson released the Countess Report, which looked into gender representation in Australian galleries. Drawing from 2014 data, it showed Australian state galleries on average only feature 34% female artists, while commercial galleries fare only slightly better, at 40%.If curators are leaving female artists behind based on fears they won’t draw crowds, they may not have a case. Pipilotti Rist and Marina Abramović were among the most popular American exhibitions between 2007-2013. In Australia in recent years, Sydney’s Museum of Contemporary Art has presented major exhibitions by Yoko Ono, Annie Leibovitz and Yayoi Kusama , drawing crowds in the same volume or higher than the NGV’s Winter Masterpieces in a period where the NGV presented no solo exhibitions by women artists from outside Australia. (It’s worth noting the MCA has had a female director, Elizabeth Ann Macgregor, for 17 years – while the NGV, in its 155 years, has only ever had male directors.) Male artists are overrepresented in major galleries because still in 2016 the archetypal artist is a white maleElvis Richardson Richardson, who also runs Australian gender and art website Countess, believes it’s the duty of publicly funded galleries to educate and engage with the public about art, and present them with a diversity of artists. “Male artists are overrepresented in major galleries because still in 2016 the archetypal artist is a white male,” she says. When galleries continue to put their weight behind these men, “women artists have reason to feel less confident that their work and practice will be accepted and supported and championed”.If demand for art by women increases, the flow-on effects for women would be immeasurable, says Richardson. “[State galleries] have a responsibility to be self-critical and understand the role that museums play in ... defining what is and isn’t championed as art.”