Sir David Attenborough has revealed he was “sneered at” by the BBC film department at the beginning of his career, as some of his early natural history programmes are to be shown in colour for the first time to mark his 90th birthday.The 1950s series Zoo Quest originally aired in black and white, but when footage was unearthed by the BBC Natural History Unit last year it was found to have been shot in colour.Modern audiences will now have the chance to see the footage alongside interviews with Attenborough revealing that his plan of how to film the series was at first viewed as “amateur” by the BBC.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  So you think you know David Attenborough?In the programme, he said Zoo Quest might never have been made because the film department initially vetoed his planned use of a lightweight 16mm film camera, rather than a larger 35mm camera, as “beneath contempt”. Attenborough said: “We were rebels really and rather sneered at by the film department.” Zoo Quest was shown over a period of 10 years from 1954 with Attenborough and cameraman Charles Lagus travelling to places including west Africa, the then British Guiana and Indonesia in search of creatures to take back to London zoo. The film department eventually relented when the pair agreed to use 16mm colour film, which would allow better quality pictures, for black and white broadcasting.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Zoo Quest was screened in black and white, but when footage was unearthed in the BBC vaults last year it emerged that it had been shot in colour. Photograph: BBC/PAThe lighter camera allowed Lagus the mobility to more easily capture shots of animals, people and places that TV audiences had never seen before. Attenborough was just 28 and Lagus was 26 when they began filming the series that launched both of their careers. Lagus went on to become a renowned wildlife cameraman and Attenborough the world’s most famous naturalist and natural history presenter. He turned 90 on 8 May. Attenborough said: “They were good days and I wouldn’t change them … Looking back I don’t think you would let two kids in their 20s just go off like that and nobody asked us anything about health and safety or anything else. I mean, we just disappeared and they said, when will you be back? Oh just before Christmas, I think. Oh righto, goodbye. So happy days.” The pair faced real danger when the series included the first ever filming of Komodo dragons in colour, on a remote island in Indonesia. They almost never made it there when the boat that they were travelling in hit a major tropical storm and nearly got sucked into a whirlpool.Lagus said: “Quite honestly, neither of us were sure that we would ever see each other again … it was that dicey.” David Attenborough’s Zoo Quest in Colour will be shown on Tuesday 17 May at 9pm on BBC4. 