Preston Sturges’s immortal 1941 Sullivan’s Travels fulfils its own premise brilliantly. Its hero, John Sullivan (Joel McCrea), is an archetypal Hollywood hack, purveyor of racy comedies such as Hey Hey in the Hayloft and Ants in Your Pants of 1939. But now he yearns to make his personal, meaningful important movie, O Brother Where Art Thou? (The Coens imagined their movie was the type of thing Sullivan would have made next.) “I want to hold a mirror up to life. I want this to be a picture of dignity! A true canvas of the suffering of humanity!” Sullivan tells his studio bosses.“But with a little sex in it,” they add. They’d rather he made Ants in Your Pants of 1941. Being a pampered Hollywood director, though, Sullivan knows nothing of the poverty he seeks to depict, so with a hobo costume from the wardrobe department and 10 cents in his wallet, he sets off to find out about it. Except he keeps winding up back in Hollywood. “It’s almost like gravity,” he says. “As if some force were saying: ‘Get back where you belong. You don’t belong out here in real life, you phoney, you.’”Sturges was never a hack like Sullivan. He sold his screenplay for The Great McGinty to the studio for $10 on condition that he directed it. (It went on to win the best original screenplay Oscar.) And he left behind a body of work that’s still admired and watched today: a Sturges retrospective begins at London’s BFI Southbank in February. But looking around the movie landscape – especially this awards season – the spirit of Sullivan seems to be everywhere.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Preston Sturges. Photograph: Bob Landry/The Life Picture Collection/GettTake financial-crash comedy The Big Short. It received four Oscar nominations and it’s easy to see why. It is a true story. It deals with a serious and timely topic. It has a cast whose names you can preface in the trailer with the words “Academy Award winner” or “nominee”. And by and large it has been critically acclaimed. But then you get to the director’s credit: Adam McKay. He’s not a household name, but many of his previous movies are: Anchorman, Step Brothers, The Other Guys. In fact, this is the first movie McKay has made that isn’t a Will Ferrell comedy.Another example: Trumbo, the type of self-backslapping Hollywood history the Academy can’t resist, the story of how screenwriter Dalton Trumbo was blacklisted in the 50s for his communist sympathies, ghost-wrote movies in exile, then staged a triumphant comeback via Spartacus. The lead, Bryan Cranston, has received numerous awards nods, including a best actor Oscar nomination. Now look who directed it: Jay Roach, the man who brought you Meet the Parents and Austin Powers movies.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bryan Cranston in Trumbo. Photograph: Allstar/Entertainment OneOne more example (for now): 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi, a dramatisation of the 2012 attack on US diplomats in Libya. Again, a serious, true-life account of recent history, the type of politically sensitive topic you would expect to find in the hands of Kathryn Bigelow or Clint Eastwood. But the director is Michael Bay, whose sledgehammer output has done more to crack the nut of serious cinema than pretty much any film-maker on the planet.There must come a time in every popcorn director’s life when they start to wonder where it all went off course. They look around at their contemporaries winning Oscars, then back at their own empty trophy cabinets. They came out of film school wanting to make the next Apocalypse Now: instead they find themselves doing Austin Powers in Goldmember, or Transformers 5, or Ants in Your Pants of 2016. You could call it Sullivan Syndrome.Roach is a classic example. A graduate of Stanford and film school, his entry into the movies came via an experimental postmodern art-film about Hitler and “the psychology and mythology of evil”. That brought him into contact with self-confessed history nut Mike Myers. Myers hand-picked Roach to direct the first Austin Powers, and the rest is DVD bargain-bin history. But Roach, now a powerful producer, has clawed his way back. In 2008, he directed Emmy-winning HBO movie Recount, on the Bush-Gore election debacle, and in 2012 he made the Golden Globe-winning Game Change, on John McCain’s 2008 campaign, with Ed Harris as McCain and Julianne Moore as Sarah Palin. Now he’s back to the top table with Trumbo, a Hollywood mass entertainer who made a political impact. Roach would be happy to be thought of the same way.Today’s commercial directors no longer have to dress up as hobos to get their personal, meaningful movies made. Instead, the commercial clout they achieve by selling out often enables them to buy back in. Bay’s movies have made more than $5bn at the box office, for instance. There’s a suspicion that if Paramount did not allow him to make “personal” (or in the studio’s eyes, “loss-making”) movies such as Pain & Gain and 13 Hours, he would stop laying Transformer-shaped eggs for them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Preston Sturges’s Sullivan’s Travels. Photograph: Everett Collection / Rex FeaturesBay had been seeking to apply his deep knowledge of explosive ordnance and military hardware to a more serious story for some time. Perhaps he’d looked across at Peter Berg, who recently transitioned from sub-Transformers disaster crud Battleship to award-winning Afghanistan movie Lone Survivor. When Bay heard 13 Hours was in the works, he pitched himself as director to producer Erwin Stoff, who admitted: “My first thought was someone more grounded or realistic.” Which is a polite way of saying Bay wouldn’t recognise “nuance” if it was spelt out in atomic blasts across the surface of the moon, but he got the gig anyway.It was a similar “one for them, one for me” deal with The Big Short, apparently. As McKay tells it, he was up all night reading Michael Lewis’s book, but had little hope of making the movie. “I’m the guy who did Step Brothers,” he reasoned. But being the guy who did Step Brothers helped get him The Big Short. According to Lewis’s account, McKay’s agent told Paramount that the director “might reconsider his lack of interest in making another Anchorman movie for them if they first let him make The Big Short. And because Adam McKay’s five previous movies have taken in a total of $725m, while costing just $313.5m, The Big Short gets made.” After Anchorman 2 gets made, of course.There is another reason the barricades between “serious” and “popcorn” are coming down – the “squeezed middle”. In short, Hollywood movies have become either very cheap or very expensive. The middle ground – traditional habitat of awards-friendly drama – has all but disappeared. As Jason Bailey wrote in Flavorwire in 2014, that mid-budget range (roughly between $10m and $50m) was once filled by the likes of John Waters, David Lynch, Francis Ford Coppola, Spike Lee, Steven Soderbergh and countless others. Now Lee has to fund his films through Kickstarter, and Lynch and Soderbergh have quit movies in favour of television. Even Bay has noticed it. “The movie industry has really changed. The middle-[budget] movie is basically gone. They just want these big movies,” he complained to Rolling Stone, with no apparent trace of irony.Either way, Sullivan Syndrome is becoming an epidemic. Luc Besson tried (and failed) to put his Euro-trash action career behind him via a biopic of Aung San Suu Kyi. Coming soon, is newsroom drama Truth, on the controversial exposé of George W Bush’s political service, with a prestige cast including Cate Blanchett and Robert Redford. Director: James Vanderbilt, best known as the writer of The Amazing Spider-Man 2 and White House Down. Todd Phillips, who gave us the Hangover movies, is finishing off Arms and the Dudes, based on a true story about arms dealers in Afghanistan. If the Farrelly brothers announced they were tackling the rise of Islamic State at this point, nobody would bat an eyelid.Near the end of Sullivan’s Travels (and here comes a 75-year-old spoiler), Sullivan really does get the hardship he wished for. He finds himself a convicted criminal sentenced to hard labour. In the film’s most celebrated scene, Sullivan shuffles into a poor African-American church along with the other convicts. They put on a Disney cartoon. Sullivan looks around and sees the entire church roaring with laughter. He realises the popcorn movies he was making had value all along. “There’s a lot to be said for making people laugh,” he surmises at the film’s somewhat hokey conclusion. “Did you know that that’s all some people have?”Awards panels are readily swayed by a prestige costume drama or a contrived actors’ workshop, it seems (especially one full of white people), but what we are really lacking is movies that “hold a mirror up to life” without alienating the mainstream. Sometimes, a mainstream comedy director can do that better than a po-faced auteur.Like Adam McKay. Looking back, McKay, a former Saturday Night Live writer, has routinely smuggled political nuggets into the popcorn. The villain of his buddy cop comedy The Other Guys was an embezzler stealing from the police pension fund to pay back investors, for instance. The film’s end credits were accompanied by graphics detailing Ponzi schemes and executive bonuses. The Anchorman movies at least broached blithe media sexism and racism (before devolving into nonsense plotting and clumsy race comedy). Best of all was the underrated Talladega Nights, both a satire and a celebration of the culture of the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, in which Ferrell’s red-state racing driver was confronted with his political nemesis in the form of Sacha Baron Cohen’s gay Camus-reading, macchiato-sipping Frenchman. The movie effectively negotiated a truce between Iraq war America’s polarised political camps. The two drivers end up kissing on the finish line.The Big Short goes to great lengths to make complex financial instruments intelligible, even if it has to resort to Margot Robbie naked in a bathtub to do so. With his mass-audience sensibility, McKay dismisses the condescending assumption that ordinary viewers can’t understand economics. Indeed, that assumption was exactly what got us into the financial mess in the first place, the movie argues. “I feel like it’s your job as a citizen to pay attention to what’s going on in politics and society,” McKay has said. “You can be a clown and get sprayed with seltzer bottles but you’ve also got to vote and know what you’re talking about.” You could say McKay got to make his O Brother Where Art Thou? But with a little sex in it.