One of the decade’s most enduring memes has come to an end: Poor Leo, where Leonardo DiCaprio would be pictured longing for the Oscar he’d long been denied. With his best actor win for The Revenant, his losing streak has ended, and the internet has duly reacted euphorically.  tumblr o3aagfOnhG1qewacoo1 540 Photograph: TumblrWORLDSTARHIPHOP (@WORLDSTAR)WHAT A TIME TO BE ALIVE pic.twitter.com/Is1vGBem5WFebruary 29, 2016Sincerely Tumblr (@SincerelyTumblr)Leo be waking up tomorrow like pic.twitter.com/4F5hEANytHFebruary 29, 2016Even fellow internet king Kanye got involved:KANYE WEST (@kanyewest)Finally!!! Our guy!!! We're so so happy for Leo!!!February 29, 2016Four times nominated in the past – forWolf of Wall Street, Blood Diamond, The Aviator and What’s Eating Gilbert Grape? – Leo had previously been the subject of stuff like this:   Photograph: TumblrRose McClelland (@rosemcc93)Poor Leo #oscars2014 #frozen pic.twitter.com/4LgXlg7wqbMarch 3, 2014  Photograph: TumblrSo why is DiCaprio such a folk hero among this subset of people who have carpal tunnel syndrome from constant Instagram scrolling? Perhaps it’s because his level of celebrity is quite unlike other stars’. He doesn’t shy from the public eye, and yet he’s weirdly unknowable, rarely giving away insights into his inner life; he therefore becomes a blank canvas for us to project onto. DiCaprio also became a convenient focus to skewer Hollywood’s obsession with prizes – and particularly actors’ need for public validation.The internet now needs a new hero, and it has perhaps found one in Chrissy Teigen, wife of John Legend, whose face once again became the true meme of the awards ceremony. Following her hilariously awkward expression at last year’s Golden Globes, her downwards-turning mouth has once again captured the hearts of Twitter et al. Elizabeth C (@ecctv)Chrissy Teigen is the best at award shows. #Oscars @chrissyteigen pic.twitter.com/h6wYle8PL2February 29, 2016Brice Sander (@bricesander)A coffee table book that's just pictures of amazing reaction faces @chrissyteigen has made at awards shows. #Oscars pic.twitter.com/LeeblqXHdJFebruary 29, 2016