In the summer of ‘14, as my family was planning a trip to England, I learned that I would be missing the annual meeting of the Barbara Pym Society in London. It gave me pleasure to imagine the Pymian Englishness that must surely pervade such a meeting — the wry conversation, the cups of strong tea, the endless exegesis of an unfairly obscure author — that might in itself be like a scene from one of her books. Later in our trip, however, we would be passing through Oxfordshire, where Barbara lived in a cottage with her widowed sister for the last eight years of her life and where she was buried. Of course, the route recommended by our navigational system would never have dreamed of bringing us through Finstock, a pin-prick on the map. But I felt, as one of Barbara’s male characters might have said, that I deserved this detour: our next stop was Northampton, where my husband would realize his cherished dream of visiting shoe factories. As for the other two members of our party, aged 11 and seven, they would just have to indulge me, for once.Barbara Pym chronicled the non-special, the unheroic, the humble, the steady, the meek; and that is just the beginning of her glory. I’ve re-read her novels every year since I was in my early twenties, and of whichever book I’m reading, I always think, “This one is my favorite.” Yet I often wonder if I ever had the chance to meet Barbara, through some temporal mechanics nonsense, whether we would have much to say to each other. Barbara was so very English; would she find she had little in common with me, slangy-mouthed, Latin-poor American that I am? How would she have felt about me referring to her by her Christian name? Would she have considered it, to use her characters’ most withering epithet, unsuitable?Barbara Pym's Excellent Women: 'One of the 20th century’s most amusing novels' Still, I don’t find myself capable of referring to her as “Pym,” like a cup of punch and Barbara was so unfailingly humble a woman she might have excused my colonial familiarity, or even found it funny. She looked at and wrote about her world with a prevailing, compassionate humor that is the only thing about her that can be compared to Jane Austen: the kind of British wit that steals upon you with a jab at the end of a sentence.As a spinster at a time when such women seemed to count for little, from the late 1930s to her death in 1980, Barbara mostly wrote about other spinsters, homely women in their late-30s to mid-60s who harbor gentle longings for the vicar (or curate or rector) but ultimately find they don’t really need anything they don’t have. Although some of her characters do have romantic relationships, there is no such thing in a Barbara Pym novel as a happy ending, only a fuzzy one, as in the last scene of her post-World War II novel, Excellent Women, when the narrator, Mildred Lathbury, gives us the sense that an anthropologist named Everard Bone is going to marry her so she can index his ethnography for him.In the beginning of Excellent Women, Mildred writes: ... I, mousy and rather plain anyway, drew attention to these qualities with my shapeless overall and old fawn skirt. Let me hasten to add that I am not at all like Jane Eyre, who must have given hope to so many plain women who tell their stories in the first person.It may be because of her characters’ extreme self-deprecation that Barbara Pym has never quite been claimed as a Second Wave feminist, but this is a misunderstanding. Her characters are humble because this is the value that society has placed on them, but they are also acutely satirical about their situations, and curiously detached. Even when one of Barbara’s women takes a strong interest in a man, it feels forced, as when Marcia Ivory, a batty elderly character in Barbara’s saddest novel, Quartet in Autumn, briefly carries a torch for Norman, a co-worker, before dropping him in favor of the more satisfying hobby of bottle-hoarding. There is no woman more self-sufficient than a Barbara Pym heroine quietly eating an omelette and a can of beans in front of her paraffin heater. It’s only larger meals that are full of soufflés and social anxiety for her heroines: they involve men, and men are such a lot of work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barbara Pym, pictured at the front door of her home in Finstock, Oxfordshire in 1979. Photograph: United News/Popperfoto/Popperfoto/Getty ImagesBarbara herself seemed to have borne an enduring unrequited love for a classmate from her time at Oxford, Henry Harvey, upon whom I strongly suspect most of her handsome, long-nosed, rather stuffy blond men to be based, but it is characteristic of Barbara that she never lets these men off without a good ribbing for their cowardice, self-importance, entitlement, and laziness, traits that Barbara’s women seem to accept, with varying degrees of irony, as the province of males. Barbara may have lived in a post-war milieu in which there were not enough husbands to go around, but these conditions must have existed in many times and places without producing an equivalent to the splendid British spinster. She, whether living with a sister, friend—or “friend”—or on her own, belongs to a culture in which men, besides the vicar, of course, are on the sidelines, and she is running the show. It is a modest culture, built on Christian duty and low expectations, but it is hers.I would like to tell you so much more about Barbara, about her names, her anthropologists, her gay men, her tea houses, her cats — but I’ll return now to England and the way in which the idea of a pilgrimage can give you the strength to get through crowds at Stonehenge and the anticipation of shoes in Northampton, taking on an almost religious urgency. Leaving Salisbury, we drove northeast, making a pit stop to buy daffodils for Barbara’s grave. For another hour, we drove small roads through endless roundabouts between hedgerows, deeper and deeper, it would seem, into nothing much, and emerged at a crossroads where there stood the same pub, at the bottom of a hill, that had been there in Barbara’s time.The Plough Inn! I could not believe my luck. Barbara had sat here, in this surprisingly venerable, beautifully restored interior with its surprisingly fancy menu — surely that had changed since her time – of prawn salad and free range chicken. The very friendly red-faced publican told us, Oh, yes, Barbara Pym’s cottage was just up the road; we were to look for the blue English Heritage plaque. Talking to him, I got the sense that everyone in Finstock knew about Barbara Pym, but no one had read her. The sad truth is that as many times as I’ve pressed Barbara’s books into other people’s hands, not once have I transmitted my passion. But they are all wrong, and no less a writer than Philip Larkin agreed with me, naming her: “The most under-rated writer of the century.”We wandered up the road to find Barbara’s cottage, so close to the pub that it is not surprising to find Emma, protagonist of the last novel Barbara wrote, A Few Green Leaves, peeking out of her window in the opening sentences, “...seeing the party assembling outside the pub, wearing tweeds and sensible shoes and some carrying walking-sticks.” It’s thrilling to think of Barbara right here, describing the cottages of “honey-colored” stone, set much closer together than I’d imagined them, and embarrassingly easy to peer into. In A Few Green Leaves, Emma spies in on her neighbors, the Barracloughs, academic hippies whom she finds very exotic, and is herself caught by the rector’s glance in the act of carrying a tuna mousse, making her wonder wearily if this means she now has to invite him to lunch.  Barbara Pym’s home in Oxfordshire. Photograph: Cassandra NeyeneschFood in books: macaroni cheese from Excellent Women by Barbara Pym After walking by Barbara’s cottage, we got back in the car and drove up a hill to look for the churchyard. There, as at her cottage, I expected to have Barbara’s presence announced for me somehow, by a grand monument, a pile of flowers, a clatch of weeping church ladies in tea-length skirts and sensible shoes, but I couldn’t find Barbara’s stone at all. Clutching my daffodils, I hunted for it for fifteen or twenty minutes without success. In fact, the graveyard was in a bit of a state, as the parochial church council complains in A Few Green Leaves, the grass growing tall around the stones. The council goes on to declare its distress about “the excesses of the village mourners”:... elaborate curb-stones, green marble chips and florid gilt lettering disfigured the general appearance of the churchyard. Some graves even had vases of artificial flowers on them, surely a disgrace in a rural area? Were there not rules that could be applied and enforced by the rector?My family was getting anxious to leave and I was now in a frantic agony of stone-scanning, clutching my daffodils, when a neatly-dressed man with a cardigan thrown around his shoulders entered the graveyard. We greeted each other and I told them that I had come all the way from Brooklyn to visit Barbara Pym’s grave and I couldn’t find it.“I’ve heard she was here,” he said. “I’ve never read her. She’s meant to be good, isn’t she?” He told us he had come to pay respects to his aunt, whom I imagined as Miss Lee, the old village lady from A Few Green Leaves who constantly dredges up memories of the old days at the local manor and the marvelous governess there, Miss Vereker.The man began to help me search for Barbara Pym’s stone. He was much better at it, because it was only a minute or two before he cried out: “Here it is!”“You’ve found it?” I said, incredulous with relief, running to the spot.  Photograph: Tony ShawAnd there it was, a small, unpolished marker that Barbara and her sister shared. The simple arched stone, humble to begin with, had in three and a half decades already grown worn and blackened at the edges.I stood over it and read:Barbara PymWriter Of course, I thought. How Barbara is that? It might have been the title of one of her novels: A Small, Simple Stone. I shed my tears, knelt to leave my daffodils on the grass, and we walked back to our car.Cassandra Neyenesch is the author of Euphemia Fan: Spy Girl. She has written art and book reviews for Art in America, The Brooklyn Rail, and other publications.Public Streets is a series curated by Ellis Avery for Public Books.