Celebrity MasterChef 8pm, BBC1 An 11th series of famous faces chasing a MasterChef title, with tonight’s quintet comprising comedian Tommy Cannon, The X Factor’s Sinitta, premillennial TV mainstay Donna Air, Real Hustler Alexis Conran and vlogger Marcus Butler. Contestants are asked to prove their competence by digging into the infamous mystery box, whose contents resemble the results of a trolley dash through Waitrose at closing time on Christmas Eve. The cook-off continues on Friday. Mark Gibbings-JonesUnlocking the Cage: Storyville 9pm, BBC4As our knowledge of the cognitive capabilities of animals increases, so do our responsibilities regarding their welfare. This admirable documentary tracks the struggles of Steven Wise, a lawyer who has fought to establish “nonhuman rights” for captive animals for 30 years. Wise is a likable figure, unfailingly dogged and principled. It has clearly been an uphill battle, but the final stages of the film suggest the tide is turning at last. Phil Harrison The £100k House: The Final Fix 8pm, BBC2Sue and Tim breed hens and live in a static caravan on their farm in Somerset. Tonight, Piers Taylor and Kieran Long somehow avoid saying that their new house looks like two static caravans on top of each other, and instead help them to see possibilities beyond the limits of their budget. A couple of trips up to Lunnun town later and the pair are alive with dreams of painted glass and statement staircases, which they then create with an impressive ingenuity. John RobinsonVersailles 9pm, BBC2All is flounce as Louis XIV rails at the roads around Versailles for being unsafe for travel. If only he knew the half of what was occurring, but this is a storyline with a few episodes to run yet. in the meantime, Louis must concentrate on affairs of state, plus trying to rein in Philippe, who is proving irritatingly adept at whupping France’s enemies on the battlefield. And the reason for the brothers’ rivalry? Deep down, it’s “about the porridge”. Of course it is. Jonathan WrightEurope: The Final Debate with Jeremy Paxman 9pm, Channel 4You might think everyone in the country irreversibly cemented their view on Remain v Leave months ago, but referendums in the UK have historically been subject to late swings and this year’s polls still show a strong showing for Don’t Know. Perhaps this 11th-hour discussion will be what swings it one way or another. Paxo referees chat between politicians, celebs and representatives of business, science, sport and the military. Jack SealeWayward Pines 9pm, FoxSeason two of the aggressively weird smalltown mystery continues. Having already borrowed from Twin Peaks, Under the Dome and cult survivalist soap Jericho, the latest ingredient to be tossed into the narrative blender appears to be Once Upon a Time. While displaced doctor Theo (Jason Patric) continues to adjust to life under the emo heel of a teen dictatorship, fairytale flashbacks reveal the twisted origin of Jason Higgins, the town’s boyband-ready despot. Graeme VirtueThe South Bank Show8pm, Sky ArtsOpera singer Joyce DiDonato is hardly your regular diva. Born in Kansas, she carries herself in an earthy, homespun manner that’s highly engaging, while also espousing liberal causes such as LGBT rights. She is also a formidable and commanding performer, as excerpts here of her singing amply attest. Melvyn Bragg presents this profile, which also features contributions by Bryn Terfel and Antonio Pappano. David StubbsFILM CHOICEVenus (Roger Michell, 2006), 2am, Film4Peter O’Toole added to his long list of unsuccessful Oscar nominations with this wry and touching performance as Maurice, an elderly actor raging against the dying of the light with the lusty pursuit of Jodie Whittaker’s sexy young Jessie: a bittersweet romance, written with humour and affection by Hanif Kureishi (who combined more recently with Michell for Le Week-End) and with touching performances from other old stagers Leslie Phillips and Richard Griffiths.SPORTAegon Open tennis Third-round action from the Nottingham Tennis Centre. 12noon, Eurosport 1Euro 2016 football The final day of the group stages presents Ireland with stern opposition in the form of Italy. 4.30pm, BBC1, 7.15pm, ITV and ITV4. Iceland v Austria is available on the BBC interactive service.Speedway: Elite League action in King’s Lynn v Coventry. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1