The Drug Trial: Emergency at the Hospital 9pm, BBC2Via a combination of first-person testimony and CCTV-styled reconstruction, this documentary recreates the 2006 clinical trial of TGN1412, an experimental drug designed to combat leukaemia. Eight men signed up, expecting to earn £2,000 for three days in a workaday London clinic. Within two hours, six of the volunteers were fighting high fever, organ failure and dangerous swelling in what would become a life-changing three-week ordeal. Graeme VirtueInside No 9 10pm, BBC2First in a new series of Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith’s merrily macabre anthology, although the recent Christmas special counts as one of this run’s six, so it’s really episode two. It’s a chamber piece about four businessmen – including Philip Glenister and Jason Watkins, AKA That Bloke Who Pops Up In Everything – bickering over who gets to pay the bill in a restaurant. Tensions rise, secrets bubble to the surface and it all goes rather badly. A tight, gloriously stressful half-hour. Luke HollandCrashing 10.10pm, Sky AtlanticJudd Apatow-directed pilot of HBO’s new comedy-drama. Despite being a struggling comic clinging to the bottom rung of New York’s standup scene, Pete (actual standup Pete Holmes) is content with his lacklustre life. That is, until his wife leaves him for a tantric art teacher. Despite initial suspicions of a Louie rehash, this uncompromising take on NY’s comedy scene is a must for students of standup. A live performance from Holmes follows. Mark Gibbings-JonesImagine: She Spoke the Unspeakable 10.45pm, BBC1According to Margaret Atwood, her life has been “one long death threat”. But this Alan Yentob-helmed profile suggests that, even at 85, Egyptian writer, doctor and activist Nawal El Saadawi is essentially unstoppable. She survived female genital mutilation, wrote a book on toilet paper while in prison and, as this film shows, is still at the heart of fierce debates about women’s rights, religion and imperialism. A timely object lesson in courage, defiance and grace under fire. Phil HarrisonSouth Downs: England’s Mountains Green 9pm, BBC4Sonorous clergyman Peter Owen-Jones offers a guide to the UK’s newest national park, the South Downs. It’s the patch where he plies his trade and he claims a deep connection to the place, which certainly comes through as he tramps the South Downs Way. Expect stunning landscapes, encounters with bats and an Adonis blue butterfly, and sundry history lessons. There’s almost too much to see here; a series might have worked better. Jonathan WrightStaying Healthy: A Doctor’s Guide 10pm, Channel 4With the NHS continually collating information about Britain’s health, Dr Pixie McKenna harvests those numbers to identify what made us sick in 2016. We learn that the clocks going back poses health hazards to many, while MMR scaremongering has led to measles outbreaks among the offspring of anti-vaccers. With the data providing assistance in reaching those most in need, this acts as an inconvenient truth for NHS naysayers. MGJRoss Kemp: Libya’s Migrant Hell 9pm, Sky1Libya is a major point of departure for migrants risking their lives to cross the Mediterranean – 10,000 set off from the north African country per month – but those desperate enough to cram on to boats are often embarking on the final leg of a far longer journey. Kemp lands in Libya to track the progress of people who are willing to traverse the Sahara for a shot at reaching the coast. He shares the danger and finds out what they are fleeing. Jack SealeFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carry On Henry, ITV. Photograph: Allstar/The Rank OrganisationCarry On Henry (Gerald Thomas, 1971) 11.40pm, ITVWith Henry VIII (Sid James) plotting to rid himself of garlic-scoffing wife Marie of Normandy (Joan Sims) to romp with frisky Bettina (Barbara Windsor), the plot may puzzle Wolf Hall fans somewhat. But while it’s no Carry On classic to match Cleo and Up The Khyber, it offers clear evidence that the Tudor court could be huge, raucous fun, with Kenneth Williams a rather more nefarious Thomas Cromwell than Hilary Mantel would allow. Paul HowlettLive sportWTA Tennis: Dubai Championships Day three of the WTA tournament, won last year by Sara Errani. 7am, BT Sport 1Champions League Football: Manchester City v Monaco Round of 16 first-leg tie as City take on the Ligue 1 leaders. 7pm, BT Sport 2ODI Cricket: New Zealand v South Africa Coverage of the second one-day match of the five-game series. 10pm, Sky Sports 2