A Banksy artwork satirising government surveillance has been removed, with fears that it has been destroyed.The Spy Booth mural appeared in April 2014 on the wall of a house in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire. It shows three secret agents in brown trenchcoats and trilbies using devices to listen in on conversations at a telephone box next to the wall.The house on which the mural is painted is a few miles from GCHQ, home of the UK government’s surveillance operations. It appeared just months after Edward Snowden’s revelations of widespread phone-tapping by western governments.On Saturday, there were fears that the mural had been destroyed: pictures were shared on social media of tarpaulins and scaffolding covering the wall of the house. Photographs from the scene showed that the wall had been stripped back to the brickwork, with a pile of rubble on the street.andrew reynolds (@AndrewMadpoll)Now what's going on at banksy corner? #Cheltenham pic.twitter.com/NRtevANPP5August 21, 2016However, it is unclear whether the mural, which has protected status, was destroyed during the building work or removed beforehand.The house on which the mural had been created was listed for sale in January for £210,000, but the advertisement made clear that urgent work needed to be done on the house. It is believed that the mural might have been taken down to enable the works to take place.In February 2015, Cheltenham borough council granted retrospective planning permission, which meant the mural could not be removed without the approval of the council.Steve Jordan, the leader of Cheltenham council, said work had been taking place to repair the plasterwork on the house but he was unaware of the mural being removed. He added that the work had begun as a result of an enforcement notice issued by the council before the Banksy mural was painted.“It [the artwork] is protected by a listing. I will have a look at what the situation is, certainly,” Jordan said.Other public artworks by Banksy have caused controversy over the years. A high court judge last year ordered the owners of a piece of wall with a Banksy painting on it who cut it out and shipped it to the US to return the artwork to Britain.Banksy 'Spy Booth' near GCHQ preserved by millionaire for community The painting, Art Buff, depicts a woman staring at an empty plinth, and appeared in September 2014. Like the Spy Booth mural, which was vandalised repeatedly, Art Buff was vandalised shortly after it was painted, with someone painting a penis on to the plinth.In 2014, a Banksy work called Mobile Lovers, depicting a couple embracing while checking their phones, appeared on the wall of a youth club in Bristol. When the owner of the club, David Stinchcombe, moved the painting inside the club, asking people for optional donations to view it, he received death threats.Eventually Banksy wrote Stinchcombe a letter declaring the painting to be an original and saying that as far as he was concerned the club could have it. They went on to sell it to a collector for £400,000 and the money has been used to keep the youth club running.