Politicians around the world might typically aspire to the heroic leadership of Henry V, envy Mark Antony’s gift for oratory or hold a sneaking admiration for the ruthless ambition of Macbeth.Britain and Russia find something they can agree on: Shakespeare's death But when John Kerry, the US secretary of state, decided to single out a character from the works of William Shakespeare, he made a surprising choice: Rosalind, the quick-witted and cross-dressing heroine of the comedy As You Like It.“Rosalind, who ‘promised to make all this matter even’, stands out as perhaps the greatest diplomat in all literature,” Kerry writes in an essay commissioned by the British Council. “She navigates her own personal traumas of exile, banishment and disguise with tenacity, patience and good humour.”Kerry, a Vietnam war veteran and longtime Massachusetts senator who was beaten by George W Bush in the 2004 presidential election, belongs to a long line of American politicians – including Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and John F Kennedy – who have revered Shakespeare. Kerry recently became the most travelled US secretary of state in history, flying more than 1.2m miles and setting foot in 88 countries. His headaches have included negotiating with Iran and Russia, easing Britain’s exit from the European Union and attempting to resolve conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. He makes the case that the mercurial Rosalind, who survives her father’s banishment, looks out for her cousin Celia and finds a way to marry Orlando, could make a good fist of such a job. She brings her understanding of everyone’s situation and interests to bear with patient preparation and negotiationJohn Kerry “She brings her unique understanding of everyone’s particular situation and interests to bear with patient preparation and negotiation, extracting commitments from all parties to an acceptable end game,” Kerry writes. “Then, she decides to ‘weary you, then, no longer with idle talking’ and succeeds in bringing about a resolution, creating couples from singletons and marriages from love affairs. “As she brings concord through her force of personality, the triumph of a dislocated society restored is Rosalind’s triumph. She inspires great affection, and the audience is granted the unusual sight of her as a woman getting the epilogue – the final press conference, as it were. In workaday prose rather than fancy verse, she ends the play alone on stage chatting with us, her friends.”Rosalind has been played memorably by Vanessa Redgrave, Maggie Smith and Juliet Stevenson. Kerry adds: “She epitomises for me the vital power of personal relationships in international diplomacy. “Edward R Murrow, the great American journalist, summed it up by noting the real crucial link in the international exchange is the last three feet, which is bridged by personal contact, one person talking to another. Rosalind’s success in the play, and with us, the audience, demonstrates just how important this personal rapport can be.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michelle Terry as Rosalind with Simon Harrison as Orlando in As You Like It at the Globe Theatre in London, last year. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianIn the 1,700-word essay, published on the British Council’s website, Kerry calls Shakespeare the UK’s “most enduring ambassador”. The Bard’s tragedies have tended to resonate with America’s political class. Lincoln was fascinated by Macbeth and in 1994 another onetime secretary of state, Henry Kissinger, turned to Hamlet when delivering a eulogy at the funeral of Richard Nixon, quoting: “He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again.”Kerry’s boss, Barack Obama, lists Shakespeare’s tragedies among his favourite books on his Facebook page. The secretary breaks ranks, citing the comedies as his “greatest inspiration”, explaining that they offer more than the opportunity to laugh: “The great strength of the comedies is that they recognise the fallibility of mankind and yet they are eternally optimistic.”Striking an optimistic note, Kerry, 72, highlights Jacques’ speech from As You Like It which begins, “All the world’s a stage, / And all the men and women merely players,” and runs through the seven ages of man. “As I travel and talk to foreign ministers, prime ministers, presidents, and people from all walks of life all across this planet,” he writes, “I don’t sense an unravelling of the global fabric. On the contrary: I see a world that is coming together.“I see a world where more infants than ever before are surviving to ‘mewling and puking’, more schoolboys and girls than ever with ‘shining morning face’ are going to school. More lovers – regardless of their gender and orientation – are ‘sighing like furnace’ without fearing for their lives. Despite turbulence and tragedy in our world still, there are fewer soldiers ‘quick in quarrel’ and more of us than ever are living to a ripe old age with or without teeth.”Kerry’s appetite for theatre was evident in July when he caught Lin-Manuel Miranda’s final performance in Hamilton, the mega-hit Broadway musical about the former treasury secretary Alexander Hamilton.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Zawe Ashton as Jaques in As You Like It: ‘All the world’s a stage’The 400th anniversary of Shakespeare’s death has been commemorated in the US this year by events including an exhibition, America’s Shakespeare, at the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington. Created by oil tycoon Henry Clay Folger and his wife, Emily, the library has the world’s biggest Shakespeare collection and sometimes receives calls from nearby congressmen seeking an apt quotation.Michael Witmore, director of the Folger, said he was excited and surprised by Kerry’s essay. “I liked it a lot,” he said. “He likes the same things about As You Like It that I like. It’s an extremely generous play about people finding freedom of movement. The audience is granted the unusual sight of her as a woman getting the epilogue: the final press conference, as it wereJohn Kerry “The idea of Rosalind as a diplomat is perfect. She teaches people how to love, she sees their shortcomings and finds ways around them in a way that is forceful but not by force.”Kerry has visited the Folger many times and his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, is a supporter, Witmore said. “I’m so pleased the secretary chose to write about a story of hope and the capacity for change.”The British Council’s “Living Shakespeare Essay Collection” also includes contributions from the novelist Ahlem Mosteghanemi and the Nigerian Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka. Kathy Culpin, head of events and networks for the British Council in the US, said: “We’re very proud Secretary Kerry has contributed. The essay is extraordinary.”