This isn’t a whodunnit. It’s a whydunnit. A cross between The Killing, Criminal Justice and Making a Murderer, the BBC’s three-part drama Murder could well be the most devastating series of the year. It certainly promises to be the most original.Playing on the phenomenal success of true-crime documentaries like The Jinx, co-creators Robert Jones and Kath Mattock have taken a huge gamble – and chosen to tell three standalone crime stories through a succession of straight-to-camera interviews. None of the characters ever interact but, as we listen to their contradictory accounts, the truth slowly emerges. With a cast including Peter Bowles, Anne-Marie Duff and Peter McDonald, the series follows the success of Jones’s original 2012 film, which centred on the discovery of a body in a Nottingham flat and won the 2013 Bafta for best single drama.“I wanted to play with the documentary form, which makes you care about, say, a person being unjustly jailed for life,” says Jones, who also wrote all three new episodes. “I wanted to see if we could get an audience to care as much about fictional characters.” In the first film, The Third Voice – directed by Birger Larsen, the acclaimed director of The Killing – two men go fishing on the Tweed, but only one returns. Later, we learn that the trip is the culmination of months of grief and alienation following the sudden death of a child. In the second, The Lost Weekend, a woman disappears after a sex-and-drug-fuelled stay at her boyfriend’s. The story grows into a wider tale of aristocracy and abuse. In The Big Bang, the third, a robbery turns bad when a policeman with a past is shot and his seven-year-old daughter survives.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tragedy on the Tweed … Frank Gilhooley in The Third Voice. Photograph: Anne Binckebanck/BBC/Touchpaper TelevisionThese are murder stories, yes, but they are also something much bigger: unsettlingly poignant examinations of grief. It is this aspect of Murder that most recalls The Killing, which dwelt so painfully on the stifling effect of grief on the dead girl’s family. So many programmes are content to simply use murder as a storytelling device, propelling the plot along – but Jones wants to delve further into the human psyche. “Grief soaks deep into these people,” says Jones, “and it’s the after-effects I want to show.” His scripts focus on those small moments, those forks in the road, that lead inexorably to disaster, and those split seconds when another way might have been possible – when you walk away from confrontation, decline the offer of more drugs, don’t get on the bus.“Forensic photos don’t lie, CCTV footage doesn’t lie,” says Larsen, “but people do. They might know the truth deep inside them, but that doesn’t mean they’re prepared to say it out loud.” The series hinges on that tension. As Jones says: “It’s very hard to say to someone flat out, ‘I have done a bad thing’ and not put up a defence. People embellish it to make it sound less bad.”Will there be a third series? Jones doesn’t know if he could commit to another. “When I finished writing, I said I’d never do another,” he says. “They were so exhausting.” Grief, guilt, sex, drugs and robbery tend to have that effect. Not to mention fishing. Murder starts on BBC2 tonight at 9pm.