As hundreds of Prince fans gathered outside his Paisley Park home on Thursday to mourn the loss of the music legend, local resident Julie Reid recalled her surprise sighting of the superstar just this week.Reid, 47, was quietly getting a haircut on Saturday when a receptionist came back and exclaimed: “Oh my gosh, Prince is outside riding his bike.”Prince, superstar and pioneer of American music, dies aged 57 “I loved him – oh, I loved him when I was growing up. So I ran out there – with foils in my hair.” Outside, Prince politely waved at her, Reid said, but when she held up her camera he firmly wagged his finger back, a testament to his penchant for privacy. Still, she snapped a quick photo, which revealed a short figure appearing to be Prince, casually riding his bike along the road.Reid, along with hundreds of fans who beloved the legendary musician, were at Prince’s home, outside Minneapolis – where he had held a dance party just last weekend – to pay their respects to the superstar and music pioneer. Some wore purple as others spread purple flowers across a makeshift memorial protected by volunteers of the compound.The road outside the house was blocked off as news trucks gathered and fans came to pay their respects. A sign in the middle of the memorial read “RIP PRINCE” with a broken heart drawn between each word.Vehicles were parked in and around the compound despite the best efforts of the local county sheriff’s department. A barrier was erected between the memorial and the crowd, fans said, out of respect for the family.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A rainbow emerges over Paisley Park while fans pay their respects to Prince. Photograph: Jules Ameel/Getty ImagesA poster hung along the fence was signed by fans reflecting on why Prince was important to them. One read: “Thank you for teaching me to dance.” Another: “Your music always plays in our hearts.” Kristin Doolittle, a resident of the nearby town of Chaska, visited Paisley with her daughter, Anna. She recalled first hearing Purple Rain when she was 13 – a “magical moment”, she said. One of her favorite Prince cuts: Delirious.“I took a dance class and I did a tap routine to Delirious,” Doolittle said. There isn’t an equal counterpart to Prince in music history, she added, recalling a concert she attended about 10 years ago. Prince: his 10 greatest songs from Head to Cream (and Purple Rain in between) “It just brings back memories of all those songs,” she said of the Prince show. “And it just reiterated to me that he belongs on the stage. He was wonderful and magnificent, and very home on stage.” Kayla Fischer, 29, learned of Prince’s death while at work on Thursday. At first, she said, it seemed as if she was alone in mourning.But then: “I called my friend, and she’s like: ‘No, I understand’,” Fischer said. “And she’s not even from here, but she understood how I felt.” A Minnesota native, Fischer stopped by Paisley Park on Thursday with her daughter, Lovly – a professed Prince fan herself. Fischer said she grew up listening to Prince through her mother and father.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Prince: a look back at his extraordinary career“It’s just like everyone’s been saying, it’s weird,” she said, adding that it “felt like I lost a family member”.At First Avenue, the club where Prince filmed the live show scenes for Purple Rain, fans began leaving floral tributes – mostly purple – at the foot of a wall decorated with a star bearing his name.The club announced it was opening for a free all-night dance party in honor of the city’s music hero.Local radio station KMOJ was playing back-to-back Prince songs throughout the day, and even the city’s politicians joined the grieving. Mayor Betsy Hodges posted on her blog: “Prince was a child of our city and his love of his hometown permeated many of his songs. Our pride in his accomplishments permeates our love of Minneapolis.”“Prince was unapologetically different and he made it OK for his fans to be different and to celebrate their individuality.”Fischer, hugging her daughter Lovly, said: “I think I’m all cried out now. If you can’t tell, my eyes are puffy and red.” Moments later, as a light drizzle let up, a rainbow appeared above Paisley Park, a moment quickly appreciated by the many gathered.“It’s just sad,” Fischer said. “It’s a happy feeling, because [everyone’s celebrating]. But it’s just so sad.”