What has the EU ever done for my … TV viewing? BELGIUM: BlokkenAcross mainland Europe, it’s not just the currency that’s shared: the TV schedules are crammed with localised versions of familiar formats. That means a dozen different Deal Or No Deals and a multilingual chorus of The Voice. But there are still some idiosyncratic Euro-progs that stand apart from the cookie-cutter crowd – shows that irresistibly chime with the national psyche. In Belgium, the most popular gameshow is the bizarre, Dutch-language Blokken, an unnatural splicing of general-knowledge quiz and competitive Tetris-playing. Belgians must love manipulating falling blocks into ordered lines: the quiz has run for over 4,500 episodes.CZECH REPUBLIC: Kouzelné Bylinky      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kouzelne bylinky host Simonou Tancerovou (left) and guest. Photograph: © Czech televisionJust as ratings behemoth Countryfile has staked out the sabbath on BBC1, so Kouzelné bylinky (Magical Herbs) casts a long and fragrant shadow over the Czech Republic on Sunday nights. An appropriately potpourri magazine show, it delves deep into every aspect of herb cultivation and usage, from unique mineral mulches that help maximise your crop to brewing restorative soup out of nettles, dandelion and yarrow. Its third season even catalogued the benefits of cannabis and hemp. That’s one way to get high ratings.FRANCE: Les Enfoirés      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Carla Bruni performs in Rouen, 2006. Photograph: Rex FeaturesPretzels and vegan dips for a German TV night with Tatort | Get-togethers Variously translated as The Bastards or The Tossers, Les Enfoirés are a rotating supergroup of French musos and celebrities convened by veteran chanteur Jean-Jacques Goldman for an annual charity concert. Since 1986, this rambunctious grand cru has featured over 200 famous visages, including Johnny Hallyday, Michel Platini and Carla Bruni, interpreting songs and performing silly skits to raise money for Restos du Couer, a charity founded by the late French clown Coluche. Three decades on, this raunchy Gallic hybrid of Live Aid and Comic Relief is still a TV juggernaut: the most recent revue was watched by a hefty 50% of France’s viewing public.GERMANY: Tatort      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Thanks to BBC4, we now all appreciate the subdued knottiness of a good policier. But even the world’s biggest Spiral fan might struggle to wrap their tête around anthology cop show Tatort (Crime Scene), a long-in-the-tooth yet regularly chart-topping drama with 20 different sets of characters based in various cities across the country. The wigged-out title sequence adds temporal as well as geographical confusion: practically unchanged since 1970, the combination of vintage funk and Day Of The Jackal-style crosshair graphics that kick off each episode generates considerable cognitive dissonance when followed by a modern-day teutonic Taggart.MALTA: Hadd Ghalik      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Singer Mike Spiteri appears as a guests on the show.With its eye-searing sets, lo-fi party games and mildly hysterical tone, Hadd Ghalik resembles a Fast Show Channel 9 sketch stretched to punishing length. Since 2008, this loosey-goosey gameshow has taken up some three hours of Sunday afternoon programming on TVM, Malta’s national public broadcaster. While impenetrable to non-speakers, there’s a whiff of Bullseye about it: populist entertainment sneered at by hoity-toity critics (it was dismissed by a local academic as “a vulgar mess”) but embraced by a genuinely all-ages audience.NORWAY: Alt For Norge      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest How Oslo can you go? Named for the country’s royal motto (“All for Norway!”), this award-winning reality caper scoops up willing Americans who claim Norwegian ancestry and herds them through a series of cultural challenges such as cross-country skiing, chowing down on fiskeboller (fish balls) or cosplaying as multimedia-straddling Norwegian pirate hero Kaptein Sabeltann (“Captain Sabertooth”). After 10 episodes, the most fjord-focused participant wins the title of “True Norwegian”. Surely a more soul-nourishing way to celebrate national identity than Britain’s Got Talent?SPAIN: Mi Madre Cocina Mejor Que La Tuya      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hosts Sergio Fernandez and Maria Jimenez Latorre.That boasting title – My Mom Cooks Better Than Yours – adds a gladiatorial edge to this culinary challenge show, which recently became a sizzling sensation in Spain. Each contestant has their dear old ma on the sidelines to offer advice while they cook up a dish against the clock. If things go badly, the matriarchs can wham a “panic button”, allowing them to don their apron and wade in, at the dual cost of speeding up the timer and infuriating their offspring. Who doesn’t love family tension kept at a roiling boil?SWEDEN: På Spåret      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Contestants Filip Hammar and Fredrik Wikingsson. Photograph: Bo Håkansson/BilduppdragetChoo detective: this train-themed quiz (On The Track) first pulled out of national broadcaster SVT’s station in 1987 and has remained one of Sweden’s most durable gameshows ever since. Teams of celebrities eyeball footage of a mystery train journey and, with the help of punning clues, attempt to identify the final destination. Sounds like it might get traction in our own republic of trainspotters, but På Spåret is apparently as uniquely Swedish as the fika coffee ritual: when the format was proudly exported to neighbouring Norway, it was cancelled after just one season.