Former Konami game director Hideo Kojima may be one of the most famous faces in video gaming. Not least because he puts himself in his games, a la Hitchcock, which for nearly the past three decades have been mostly Metal Gear titles. 2015’s MGSV: The Phantom Pain was a spectacular finale that offered real-life fireworks too, as Kojima and Konami acrimoniously parted ways.This breakup saw a reaction along tribal lines, with the fanbase generally siding with Kojima and blaming Konami. Something of the hangover remains in the reaction to Metal Gear Survive, which is a “divergent take” on Metal Gear in the studio’s own words. It transplants the series into another dimension for an online co-op game for up to four players – with, and it’s hard to suppress a slight sigh here, zombie-type enemies.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The trailer’s end features the approach of a Metal Gear without showing us the machine – Peace Walker featured replayable boss battles against giant mechs, and bet on something similar here.The trailer begins with footage from Ground Zeroes, MGSV’s prequel, showing central character Big Boss escaping from his imploding base – before cutting to a soldier left behind. It’s hard to miss the symbolism of Kojima’s game being used to introduce the new one; the replacement of the iconic Big Boss with a series of characters, and the overall idea of those left behind trying to forge a new path.Various aspects about Survival are promising, not least the fact that it’s built on the incredible foundation of MGSV– a systems-based open world that created exciting scenarios in every engagement. The Mother Base seen in the trailer is the Peace Walker / Ground Zeroes version (though it uses MGSV’s visual assets). Around halfway through, the trailer focus switches to this – crash-landed but far from abandoned, with perimeter fences to keep out the zombies. The implication is that, as with Peace Walker and MGSV, Mother Base will serve as the game’s expandable hub and overall structure, with players venturing into the wilderness for missions. An especially intriguing moment shows a soldier clocking a zombie with a pipe, meaning melee weapons in a series that has never really specialised in this kind of combat. There’s a pipe, a spear, and beyond this a bow followed by an explosive drill bow (expect crafting), alongside the trailer’s characters carting supplies back to Mother Base.   Much of the talent that worked on MGSV: TPP remains at Konami, including key figures suvh as Yuji Korekado – a designer / programmer so integral to MGSV he’s one of the few listed on every mission’s startup credits.MGSV’s systems are being reworked towards, in Konami’s words, having four players “strategically manage massive threats” in “harsh terrain filled with deadly creatures”. This is much more of a nod towards Monster Hunter than hardcore survival sims. Survive’s inspiration seems to come from MGS: Peace Walker. This title not only copied the Monster Hunter endgame structure, which is scaling difficulty and equipment, but also included licensed tribute missions. The comparisons to western zombie games – the Day Zs and Left 4 Deads and COD zombies – may prove well wide of the mark.Metal Gear Survive is being pitched as a companion piece to MGSV, which will retail at a non-premium pricepoint. It all rather calls to mind Red Dead Redemption’s Undead Nightmare DLC – an extremely popular and well-received expansion to a great open-world game. The zombies are a worry, not least because part of MGSV’s brilliance is the enemy AI, and the trailer included no stealth elements whatsoever A company spokesman did however assure Eurogamer that “there is stealth in it ... I know when you’re watching the trailer it’s all very action-packed and it doesn’t really elicit that feeling, but there will be stealth and one of the really interesting things that we will be exploring and playing with is how stealth and co-op can actually co-exist.” So far, so normal for a game announcement – but of course Metal Gear Survive is a focal point for something else. The fan reaction has been about as measured as we’ve come to expect from the internet, with social media and YouTube near-united in condemnation of the game – despite knowing little about it. This parody Twitter account captures the general feeling: HIDEO_KOJIMA (@HIDEO__KOJIMA_)Watching the Metal Gear Survive trailer pic.twitter.com/DSB4l7r5LLAugust 17, 2016Alongside plenty of references to Kojima’s current project, Death Stranding:Jaya Ply (@Nikingply)me after watching Metal Gear Survive.... pic.twitter.com/6DpyaeQezYAugust 17, 2016And generally a feast of amusing Big Boss images and gifs:Zico #10 [AE86] (@NicoMartins69)@ScandalAtsumina pic.twitter.com/E4Lf24dMYJAugust 17, 2016Obviously humour is one method of expression, and all the explicit tweets we aren’t reproducing here are another. Yet another would be the YouTube “reaction” video I’ve just watched, where a young man pretends to be dead throughout the trailer before spasming to the floor at its conclusion. An especially popular portmanteau and hashtag ever since MGSV’s release has been “FucKonami” and, in the context of audience reactions recently, it’s hard not to feel we’re in an era of rather obnoxious ignorance.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   YouTube search results for Metal Gear Survive.Konami finds itself in the frankly bizarre position of having developed and delivered, with Kojima, one of the all-time great gaming series – but all the credit seem to have left with that one man. To say that Kojima is Metal Gear is to ignore that Metal Gear is also Konami, by which I mean the hundreds of mostly unknown creators that have also worked on the series for decades. Such a perspective becomes even more incredible when you consider one of the later games’ core themes was the perils of hero-worship. Do such fans, one wonders, even understand their hero’s creations?Even if they do not, the hand-wringing over Survive’s dafter elements – and the focus on zombies – is hard to reconcile with Metal Gear’s history. A wormhole sucking troops into an alternate dimension for a spinoff game is a narrative macguffin, sure, but MGSV featured wormhole technology in a more subsidiary role. Kojima himself had a zombie scenario in mind for the sequel to Metal Gear Rising – and MGSV includes missions where the player has to rescue former MSF soldiers who, in the intervening nine years, have gone mad and roam the world maps in a zombiefied state. This is not to say it’s all sunshine. Metal Gear Survive is entering a saturated genre, making changes to what people might expect from Metal Gear gameplay, and parts of the trailer are undeniably generic (a consequence of using player avatars, perhaps). Alongside Peace Walker there’s also the ambiguous legacy of the Metal Gear Online games to consider, which have largely flattered to deceive – with brilliant mechanics but limited longevity. While zombies can make for a great enemy type in video games, we’ve had so many the idea is just boring. But at a time when a vocal section of the internet is angry about pre-release hype, however, a large part of Metal Gear Survive is already a known quantity. Assuming the 2017 release date means late 2017, this represents maybe a two-year dev cycle and thus a huge reliance on MGSV. It is hard to overstate what an advantage it is for a video game to have such a base – using MGSV as a foundation is like having a great tomato sauce for cooking. If you make a great tomato sauce then the chances are the bolognese or lasagne or minestrone you go on to make will be pretty good too. MGSV is tomato sauce made by Marco Pierre White.The fans have a readymade reaction for this analogy, of course. Ar Nomura sora pa ki (@sora54)Ma TL à l'annonce de #MetalGearSurvive. pic.twitter.com/Bzzp7gty66August 17, 2016Metal Gear Survive is, at least, a departure for the series – and after Kojima’s departure, that may be exactly what it needs. There are no rules for Metal Gear’s future because this has historically been the kind of series that writes them – the one fact that, with Survive being the first post-Kojima title, makes you wonder about the ambition here. Will this really be, as Konami promises, “survival done the Metal Gear way”? Or will it simply show that, without Kojima and his fans, Metal Gear has its own survival issues. Metal Gear Survive will be released on PC, PS4 and Xbox One in 2017.