‘If only the brown corduroy suit was mine,” sighs Simon Bird, as wistfully as one can get over caramel corduroy. “I wish. I’m stuck in tweed and a tank top. In fact, I’ve never been in anything and not worn a tank top. It’s become my signature garment. Tank tops must be in my contract. I should get that looked at.”It’s lunchtime in the rehearsal room for the new all-star production of Christopher Hampton’s 1970 comedy The Philanthropist, and between bites of chicken-and-avocado sandwich (with a bag of popcorn for pud), Bird is rifling through the clothes rail. “I’m growing out my mutton chops too,” he says, absentmindedly stroking a nascent sideburn. “I’m going fully method. Might book myself a perm.”The 32-year-old son of two economics lecturers from Guildford, Bird cut his comedy teeth as president of Cambridge Footlights, soon progressing to sketch troupes and standup. He seems remarkably relaxed for someone making his West End debut in a week’s time, but he insists it’s all an act. “It’s not quite my theatrical debut,” he explains. “I dipped my toe in the water with a four-night play [The Crocodile, based on Dostoyevsky’s short story] at Manchester international festival two years ago but this is more hardcore: 16 weeks in the West End. When I say it like that, I feel absolutely terrified, so I’m trying not to think about it. Thanks for bringing it up.”Directed by Simon Callow (“the other, better Simon” as Bird calls him), the play is a fiendishly funny inversion of Molière’s The Misanthrope, set at an Oxbridge-esque university and following 24 hours in the lives of five young academics. Bird plays lead role Philip, a nerdily naive philology professor hosting a dinner party that takes several unexpected turns – some of them saucy.“It’s quite a sexy play,” agrees Bird. “How could it not be with me in it? Just look at that bespectacled face peering down at you from the poster. Unfortunately, there’s no nudity from me. Ticket sales are bound to suffer now. Our hopes of selling out will be dashed when people find out I’m not stripping off.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Bird, Charlotte Ritchie, Matt Berry, Tom Rosenthal and Lily Cole in The Philanthropist. Photograph: Shaun WebbAlongside Bird, The Philanthropist’s cast is a dream team of comedic talent: Fresh Meat’s Charlotte Ritchie, model-turned-actor Lily Cole, Bird’s Friday Night Dinner co-star Tom Rosenthal (“it’s truly horrible to be back in his presence,” deadpans Bird) and Toast of London’s Matt Berry (“I watched Garth Marenghi’s Darkplace at school and remember thinking how brilliantly, effortlessly funny Matt was, so to be working with him is really exciting. I’m still a fanboy at heart”).With so many funny people in one room, zingers have been flying. “There’s lots of laughs and we all get along very well, which is a relief when you’re staring down the barrel of four months together on stage,” says Bird. “I like to think of this gig as a huge gun barrel. That’s the sort of positive thinker I am.”It’s not all beer and skittles, though. “As well as all the laughter, it’s been intense, hard work. In my case, that’s partly abject terror at the prospect of opening in a week. It’s also because we’ve got Simon Callow in the room. He’s got so much wit and wisdom to offer, we just shut up and listen. The cast have got lots of comedy experience, so our instinct is to ham it up, mug, gurn and go for laughs with every line. The big SC, quite rightly, has put the brakes on that and made us trust the script.” To be in a show that people love and quote back at you is the reason you get into this business. I feel privileged Rehearsing at all has been a culture shock. “Most of us haven’t done much theatre,” says Bird. “On TV, you simply don’t rehearse. You turn up on the day, maybe run through the lines, then you’re straight on camera. It costs so much to film anything, you just get it in the can and move on. So four weeks of rehearsal to sink into the play is a luxury.”The Philanthropist’s donnish roles often attract middle-aged actors, but Callow specifically wanted bright young things, playing the roles at the age that Hampton – just 23 when he wrote it – originally intended. “It definitely changes the play for my character,” says Bird. “It’s odder that he’s having morbid thoughts around age 30 than if he was in his mid-50s, having a midlife crisis.”The familiar TV faces and presence of Lily Cole should draw in a different demographic. “I guess that’s the plan,” agrees Bird. “It would be great to get a younger audience than your traditional theatre crowd. A load of unruly youths going mad for it. And probably shouting ‘Bumder!’ at me.”Ah yes, bumder – one of many memorable insults coined in E4’s sex-mad schoolboy sitcom The Inbetweeners, narrated by sarcastic swot Will McKenzie – the role for which Bird remains best known. “I still get them shouted at me on a daily basis,” he shrugs. “Bus wanker. Briefcase wanker. All the wankers. Sometimes just plain old wanker. ‘Does it get grating?’ you don’t ask…”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Buckley, Blake Harrison, Joe Thomas and Simon Bird in The Inbetweeners Movie. Photograph: Allstar/FILM FOUR/Sportsphoto Ltd.I take the bait. Does it get grating? “No, you grin and bear it. I’ve no right to complain. To be in a show that people love and quote back at you is the reason you get into this business. I feel privileged to have that experience.” Now the show’s gang of four are into their 30s, they’ve presumably outgrown their school uniforms? “Yep, I can confirm The Inbetweeners is over. You can have that scoop.”There were a mere 18 episodes but The Inbetweeners casts a long shadow, I suggest. “You’re right,” nods Bird. “I feel that happens a lot with British comedies. They’re short-lived but make a big impression. We’re used to American comedies where you blink and suddenly there’s been 150 episodes of The Big Bang Theory but it’s a different system here. There’s no writers’ rooms. Sitcoms tend to be very authored, the visions of their creators, who write every word. It’s difficult to write one episode, so to write 18 is a superhuman feat. To fans, it feels like there’s more because they’ve gone back and watched them so many times, which is humbling.”The Inbetweeners: 'Our movie's success doesn't make any logical sense' Then there’s the trifling matter of the two spin-off films. The first, in 2011, became the biggest ever British comedy at the box office. “That was a massive surprise,” says Bird. “Then again, every step of the way with The Inbetweeners was a surprise. I can’t emphasise enough how small that show seemed. It was the first sitcom E4 ever made, with a shoestring budget, first-time writers and a first-time cast. We assumed nobody would watch and it would get cancelled. It almost did but it grew and grew, sold well on DVD and off the back of those sales, got a film deal. In a career full of shocks – I’m shocked I’ve got a career at all, frankly – the opening weekend was the biggest. We knew fans would go and see it but it suddenly seemed to reach a whole new audience in a way nobody predicted. A very strange time.”Will his follow-up sitcom hit, family farce Friday Night Dinner, return for a fifth series? “Who knows?” Bird says with a glint that suggests he knows full well and the answer is yes. “If it does, it wouldn’t be until 2018. It’s nice to have a year off getting wedgied all the time. Allow the bruises to heal.”Its cast while away time on set by playing the word game Boggle. “I’d hate to know how many games we get thorough,” chuckles Bird. “Certainly hundreds, maybe thousands. I’ve got the beating of Tom [Rosenthal, who plays Bird’s brother] and I’m confident I can see off Paul Ritter [aka their father]. My major competition is Tamsin Greig [the Goodman family matriarch]. That’s the main reason I’d do a fifth series: to really make that Boggle crown my own.”No time for Boggle here on The Philanthropist. Bird’s far too busy learning his lines. “It’s horrible but I’m getting there,” he says. “I don’t use a technique like a memory palace – it would take me weeks to figure out its layout, deciding where I want my swimming pool and how many seats I want in my personal cinema. It’s just repetition. I’ve got an app, which I use as I walk into rehearsal each day, because God knows I don’t have any time to learn lines at home with a 15-month-old. So if you see a speccy bloke strolling through north London talking to himself, say hi.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Ritter, Tom Rosenthal, Simon Bird and Tamsin Greig in Friday Night Dinner. Photograph: Mark Johnson/Channel 4Bird became a father for the first time at Christmas 2015. “It’s full-on but a joy. I love a soft play centre. Shoes off, muck in. We’re avoiding Peppa Pig for as long as possible but Bing’s a favourite.” The bunny-based CBeebies series is voiced by Mark Rylance. “Yep, if we need to go nuclear, we deploy Rylance. Push the Rylance button.”There’s one fatherhood fact he’s keen to clear up. “I haven’t got a son – that’s another untruth printed in certain newspapers. I’m baffled how that confusion happened. When me and Tom were doing an interview, he joked that my daughter had ‘a slightly judgmental air’. By the next day’s papers, it was me who said it and it was a son. But it’s a daughter. She’s a daughter. I have a daughter.” He laughs. “Shall I say that in a few more ways?”The West End stage isn’t the only new territory Bird is conquering. Next summer, he will shoot his feature film directorial debut – and the New Review can claim partial credit. “The book it’s based on is Days of the Bagnold Summer by Joff Winterhart, who got his break by coming runner-up in your graphic short story prize a few years ago. So thank you very much to all involved,” Bird grins. “I read it when it came out in 2011, immediately fell in love with it and became evangelical, forcing it on friends and family. Luckily, it’s short and mainly pictures, so they didn’t have an excuse not to read it. I thought then that it would make a good film. It’s taken a while to reach this stage but I’m really excited.”The film’s a family affair, with a screenplay by Bird’s wife Lisa Owens, whose comic debut novel Not Working became a critical hit last year. “There was definitely a risk of it backfiring and awkwardness ensuing,” he admits, “but we’ve come out the other side and it’s a brilliant script. We figured the benefits would outweigh any negatives. She’s the best writer I know and it’s great to have those script conversations in an informal way. We just chat over dinner or leave notes on the fridge. Lisa’s done all the work so far, writing the thing. Now it’s over to me to mess up.”He got a taste for directing by making a short film, Ernestine & Kit, last year. “Essentially I’m a control freak. When I got into TV and acting, it quickly became apparent that you’re only involved in 10% of the process. I wanted to do something from the very start to the very end.” As if he needed more on his plate, Bird’s also moving into producing: “I set up a production company called Guilty Party 18 months ago with my friend Jonny Sweet and Spencer Millman, who’s an experienced producer with shelves full of Baftas. We’ve got various projects bubbling under. Hopefully some will come to fruition soon.”Actor, director, producer – it’s an ever-lengthening LinkedIn profile. “Don’t forget model,” he says. “I do have a lot of job titles. In America, they’d call me a multi-hyphenate.” Which path will he ultimately take? “There’s no real plan. My feeling is that directing might be the most fulfilling but I love acting too. If it’s not too greedy, I’d like to carry on doing it all, in the way that someone like Richard Ayoade does.”Despite his CV, Bird still insists he’s an accidental actor: “I’ve never really viewed myself as one. I didn’t go to drama school, I’ve never had aspirations to play Hamlet. I got into The Inbetweeners by fluke, doing standup and sketch comedy. But I’ve been bitten by the bug. I accept it’s going to be difficult for me to do many more sitcom parts, so if I want my acting career to continue, I’m going to have to expand my horizons. My Hamlet might happen one day. Hamlet with a briefcase.”“The other Simon” bursts back into the rehearsal room with a stern look that says lunchtime is over. I gather my things, apologetically assuring him that we’ve finished. “I should hope so too,” replies Callow. “Exhausting my actors.” And with that, Bird returns to his tank top and abject terror. Something tells me that, like everything else he tries, his West End debut will work out just fine.• Simon Bird is in The Philanthropist, directed by Simon Callow, at Trafalgar Studios from 3 April to 22 July