“Every time I’ve got a virtual reality headset on I feel sick.” The Gadget Show’s newest recruit, Olympic skeleton gold medallist Amy Williams, is a little less blown away by 2016’s breakout tech than her co-hosts. I’m backstage at the show’s annual live event at Birmingham’s NEC, here to discuss Channel 5’s long-running consumer show. Chat, somewhat inevitably, has drifted on to gadgetry. “If you only do one thing while you’re here,” says Jason Bradbury, the programme’s bespectacled figurehead, “make it VR. It’ll blow your mind!” His other co-presenters, John Bentley and Ortis Deley, similarly froth over VR’s potential applications, from art to games to education. If you’re into gadgets, it’s an engaging chinwag to be a part of. If you’re not into gadgets, well, you probably don’t watch The Gadget Show. Ten minutes have passed before I realise I’m not actually asking any relevant questions; I’m just chatting to four people who really like gadgets. Which is, in a nutshell, the show’s premise.The Gadget Show review – less Top Gear for laptops, more useful tech chat The Gadget Show has been a staple of Channel 5’s schedules since 2004 – a time before iPhones, YouTube and Zoella. Only phone-in whingefest The Wright Stuff and kids’ morning headache-provider Milkshake! can claim longer shelf lives on the channel. It began as a straight, studio-based gadget-testing magazine show and since then it has widened into broader family territory. Its USP is fun, edgeless, geeky enthusiasm. There are challenges. Product tests. World record attempts. And, as the cosplay-heavy turnout at this seventh annual live event suggests, a dedicated fanbase. “It’s like being Justin Bieber for four days,” says Deley, slightly, if not totally, exaggerating.For the first time, an episode of the series is being made from the stage show. Jamie Raven, the Britain’s Got Talent conjuror, is doing a spot, as are a live band and a hoverboard-based dance troupe. The audience are involved in voting on which sounds better: vinyl or MP3. Prizes are given away throughout. A cheeky, cheap technology show on at 7pm on Channel 5 packing out the NEC for four days definitely seems odd. But then again the venue is soon to host a festival of quilts, so perhaps its popularity is not so unfeasible.In the same way that Top Gear’s crossover appeal lay in watching a bunch of floral-shirted buffoons talk entertainingly about cars, The Gadget Show’s appeal is watching a group of slightly more relatable people waffling about TVs, scooters and all manner of other assorted doohickies. In both cases, it’s an esoteric subject made accessible, though on The Gadget Show you can’t imagine a producer getting a shiner because a presenter has an over-inflated sense of their own importance. Bentley is actually credited with – or perhaps that should be blamed for – “discovering” Jeremy Clarkson, having been a producer on Top Gear in its old format. Bradbury’s career began on cable TV show Telewest alongside Sacha Baron Cohen, while Deley cut his teeth in kids’ TV, after being discovered as a contestant on Blind Date. You do suspect they were all always geeks in some regard. “I spent the 90s in my bedroom fiddling with computers while all my mates were taking drugs,” admits Bradbury. “Now that’s a geek.” Bentley’s credentials are a bit more sedate: “I used to read Which? Magazine as a child…” he mutters embarrassedly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jason Bradbury at Gadget Show Live 2016. Photograph: Graham Stone/REXHowever, Bradbury is keen to stress that “our audience are not geeks. In fact, we get abused by geeks for not being techy enough”. He has a point: since the show began, much easier ways for consumers to absorb tech information have become commonplace. “We can’t even compete. You’ve got tech blogs that can blog hourly.” So the show softened, jettisoning a chunk of its fanbase in the process, but gaining the widespread appeal without which it almost certainly wouldn’t have lasted for 12 years. “If the blogs review something,” explains Bradbury, “we’ll go 50 miles per hour on it in a field in Wales. Chased by a helicopter. You can’t do that on a blog.” The challenges do occasionally come a cropper, as a sizzle-reel of tumbles shown before the live show, culminating in an eye-watering Bradbury nutshot, ably demonstrates.Bradbury says it’s all about a desire not to dwell too much on the negative, which isn’t exactly a commonplace ethos on TV in 2016. “If something’s crap, you’ve got to say that it’s crap. But The Gadget Show is about saying, ‘If something is crap, is slagging it off what you want to watch at 7 o’clock when you’re having your TV dinner?’ Probably not.”I’m still waiting for a crack to appear in the team’s puppyish enthusiasm. But it doesn’t. Bentley keenly talks about screen resolutions; Williams advises me never to wear wedge heels on a hoverboard; Deley is fretting about a virtual reality zombie experience. Chat turns back to tech. “Back in the 80s, people used to debate in pubs about whether to buy a Sierra or a Cavalier,” Bentley says. “Now it’s whether they’re iOS or Android people. People just want to talk to each other about gadgets.”Maybe that’s it. Maybe we’re all geeks now. As our conversation winds up, a cosplayer walks past with her dog. The dog is dressed as a Pokémon. It looks, frankly, amazing. If the geeks have inherited the Earth, I think we’ll all be fine.The Gadget Show airs Friday, 7pm, Channel 5