In BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs, guests are given two books to take with them when they are cast away: the Bible and the Complete Works of Shakespeare. I think that is something only the British could have invented! Still, it’s absolutely true that Shakespeare’s all-encompassing depth and breadth comes close to, or perhaps sometimes exceeds, any other collected works by any author including the Bible: I firmly believe that there is not one human feature, weakness or passion that is not discussed, addressed and resolved in one way or another in his works. When I was growing up in (then Soviet) Russia, Shakespeare was among the most important literary presences, alongside Pushkin, Goethe, Dante and Tolstoy. I wouldn’t claim that he played the same role in the lives of everyday Russians as he does in English-speaking culture, but he’s certainly seen as the greatest dramatist who ever lived. My generation found in Shakespeare what we also found in Pushkin: his works are filled with characters striving for inner freedom during times when actual freedom is in deficit. Shakespeare's works are filled with characters striving for inner freedom during times when actual freedom is in deficit I first read Shakespeare in translation, of course. Today on the internet you can compare five or six different Russian translations of Hamlet or King Lear; it’s fascinating to see how every generation colours Shakespeare in its own way. My favourite versions were by Boris Pasternak, himself a great poet. Now that my English is good enough to read the originals, I can see how much of his own poetry Pasternak contributed to his translations, though in spirit and in their earthy qualities they surpassed anything done earlier. The 19th-century translations were closer to the German ones that would have inspired Mendelssohn for his overture and incidental music to A Midsummer Night’s Dream, much more slanted towards romanticism. Shakespeare in music is a little like Shakespeare in translation: every era brings its own viewpoint and interpretation – and he has inspired century after century of composers. My first encounter with music connected to Shakespeare was probably Prokofiev’s ballet score Romeo and Juliet, which my father conducted with the Komische Opera Ballet in East Berlin; later, Verdi’s operas Macbeth, Otello and Falstaff; then the Russian films of Hamlet scored by Shostakovich, plus film versions of theatre plays in which the music resembled that of Shakespeare’s time, although it was almost impossible in the USSR to hear a recording of Purcell’s The Fairy Queen. Interestingly the production of Romeo and Juliet that my father was conducting (choreographed by Tom Schilling) suggested the lovers were separated not just by a family feud, but by a wall.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Next to Prokofiev’s version, Tchaikovsky’s Fantasy-Overture Romeo and Juliet seems to me comparatively one-dimensional. It’s driven by a more naive 19th-century romanticism and his view of the star-crossed lovers is not far from the fatalistic storytelling of his ballet Swan Lake. That all-encompassing Shakespearean drama, bursting with life in all its complexity, is something I only came to understand later. Perhaps I’m only beginning to understand now the way that his tragedies are comedies which end badly, and vice-versa. Previously, I saw tragedies and comedies as two separate things, but Shakespeare doesn’t work like that! Shostakovich and Prokofiev were probably the first to realise this fully in music.Simon Callow has masterminded our extravaganza for Shakespeare’s birthday, 23 April, with the London Philharmonic orchestra, including recitations by some superb actors. Over 300 (maybe more) pieces of music have been inspired by Shakespeare, and making the selection was very difficult, but we have included only the music we felt we could not possibly leave out, and which shows some of the extraordinary breadth of the Shakespearean genius.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The music we chose ranges from Mendelssohn’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, to Tchaikovsky’s Hamlet Overture and Prokofiev’s Romeo and Juliet, and from an extract of Berlioz’s Romeo to Walton’s music for Laurence Olivier’s film of Henry V. I would particularly pick out Benjamin Britten’s opera of A Midsummer Night’s Dream, which to me is as fine a musical realisation of Shakespeare as anything ever created: the world of Oberon especially is incomparably atmospheric. Composers are still finding inspiration in Shakespeare’s works and to represent the contemporary we have included an extract from Thomas Adès’s opera The Tempest; the magic in his music matches the magic in the play. The concert’s first half closes with the Serenade to Music by Vaughan Williams, a setting of words from The Merchant of Venice. It’s a deeply touching piece; reputedly Rachmaninoff attended its world premiere in London and was moved to tears.We both start and finish with Verdi, who had a long relationship with Shakespeare’s plays. His Otello is a great piece of dramatic theatre, much coloured by its times and by its librettist, Arrigo Boito. Boito had previously written his own opera – Mephistopheles – and he gives Iago the demoniac quality of a Mephistophelean figure. Shakespeare’s Iago is more of an ordinary man whose actions are both disgusting and terrifying, yet also disturbingly human.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Falstaff, which concludes our concert, was Verdi’s last opera, premiered when he was nearly 80. I think that by then Verdi was seeing all things from his perspective as an elderly, wise man ready to leave this world, and the philosophical essence he draws from the whole comedy of life is the dazzling finale, “Tutto nel mondo è burla” – “Everything in the world is a jest”. It may be cynical, but it’s also incredibly generous and humane. In that sense it’s something that could almost have come from the Bard himself. There could be no better way to close our celebration.Shakespeare400: Anniversary Gala concert with Vladimir Jurowski and the London Philharmonic is at the Royal Festival Hall, London, on 23 April. 