Showbiz insiders joke that the fastest route to an Oscar is to make a Holocaust film. That’s particularly true in the foreign language category, where Hollywood voters counter their fear of the exotic with the security of known history. Yet when Hungarian debut director László Nemes scooped this year’s statuette for Son of Saul (Curzon Artificial Eye, 15), you could hardly say he’d pandered his way to the podium. A Holocaust film it may be, but Nemes finds one remarkable way after another to make abrasive and unfamiliar that which we already know. It’s a film that dives headlong into the chaos and carnage of Auschwitz in the crumbling stages of Nazi rule, landing with dirt in its face and rank despair in its gaze.Our perspective is filtered through that of Saul, a Hungarian-Jewish Sonderkommando prisoner played by Géza Röhrig, another newcomer, with calm, startling grace. As Saul herds his brethren into the gas chambers, Röhrig’s performance brilliantly articulates the profound sadness petrified beneath his get-on-with-the-job mien. As the handheld camera snakes through the horror in uninterrupted tracking shots, we see nothing that Saul does not, which makes the film by turn more revelatory and more restricted than previous concentration camp dramas. It’s a formal coup tantamount to virtual reality on 35mm. Some dissenters have argued that it’s exploitative. I disagree, while wondering if the film astonishes me more as an experiential exercise than as fully felt drama. It’s an astonishment nonetheless. Kidman gives raging, chewed-nail conviction to an otherwise wildly teetering melodrama It certainly makes German post-Auschwitz drama Labyrinth of Lies (Studiocanal, 12), already a resolutely old-fashioned effort, look even dustier by comparison. In terms of performance and construction, there’s nothing especially wrong with director Giulio Ricciarelli’s fictionalised, televisually diverting tale of a young public prosecutor seeking to bring a former Auschwitz commander to justice in 1958, but it’s just the kind of film that makes people assume its subject has been creatively exhausted.Meanwhile, Son of Saul is unlikely to face an indignity often inflicted on foreign Oscar winners: the English-language remake. Secret in Their Eyes (Universal, 15) is the latest example. A proficiently beige US adaptation of the popular 2009 Argentine thriller, with post-9/11 paranoia replacing 1970s political excavations, Billy Ray’s film is no insult to its memory, just a secondhand reminder of its more exhilarating moments (yes, that stadium scene is recreated) and, if we’re being honest, its hokier ones. One asset it has all to itself: a sternly committed Julia Roberts, elevating every scene as a weathered anti-terror agent. She gets more to do in the film, alas, than Nicole Kidman, though the latter gets a more generous homecoming showcase in Strangerland (Kaleidoscope, 12). As an Australian mother devastated when her two children disappear into an outback dust storm, Kidman gives raging, chewed-nail conviction to an otherwise wildly teetering melodrama that desperately needs her emotional anchoring.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Secret in Their Eyes trailerNot a lot of laughs in this week’s release slate, then, and that extends to the comedies too: Sacha Baron Cohen’s class-baiting spy romp Grimsby (Sony, 15), for which you need only search “elephant scene” on YouTube in a few weeks’ time; Ben Stiller’s Zoolander 2 (Paramount, 12), a return to the gleeful absurdity of 2001’s fashion satire, minus the glee; and the self-explanatory Fifty Shades of Black (Signature, 15), a spoof that’s a good deal less knowing than its target.Best to stick with the deliberately unfunny stuff, then. Swedish director Magnus von Horn makes a debut nearly as impressive as his name with The Here After (Soda, 15), a deftly controlled, cold-handed slap of a film centred on a teenager haunted by a criminal past that emerges in gradual, unhappy slivers. It’s a chilly sit, but a magnetic one. Same goes for the week’s most enticing re-issue: American duo David Siegel and Scott McGehee’s glistening 1993 debut Suture (Arrow, 15), a noir-hued stainless-steel jigsaw puzzle revolving around identities mistaken and manipulated. Fashionable in its day, but rarely discussed now, it’s fascinating to consider as an early primer for subsequent work by the likes of Christopher Nolan and Shane Carruth.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for Suture.Carruth, the visionary behind the 2013 sci-fi drama Upstream Colour, is one of several indie iconoclasts contributing to The Girlfriend Experience – and he just did the score. Premiering in the UK on Amazon Prime, it’s a slinkily unexpected TV drama about a law student moonlighting as a call girl. Its executive producer is Steven Soderbergh, on whose 2009 film of the same title the series is based, but it’s chiefly steered by Lodge Kerrigan and Amy Seimetz. Their joint intelligence and rigour, plus the dauntless flint of Riley Keough, makes a tough psychosexual investigation out of what could have been seamy cable-network provocation.