When I was a child discovering Muhammad Ali in the 1970s, he was already fighting Superman in oversize comic books, already “the most recognizable face on earth”. In 1990, when I was in my mid-20s, I got my first job in documentary film working as a researcher on Muhammad Ali: The Whole Story. It was common to find most of the staff in one office corner excitedly watching footage of his dominance in the ring. I could tell the film was going to march through his miraculous career one boxing highlight at a time.Muhammad Ali: the man behind the towering social and political figure | Thomas Hauser But I often found myself in another corner watching an Ali I’d yet to discover. This was the man in a black suit and bow tie, gloves off, pummeling an entire college campus of white students with a flurry of blows against the Vietnam war and against racism, saying: “You my opposer when I want freedom, you my opposer when I want justice, you my opposer when I want equality. You won’t even stand up for me in America for my religious beliefs and you want me to go somewhere and fight when you won’t even stand up for me here at home!”And then there he’d be on another campus, harmonizing with black students, offering an “As-salaam alaikum,” with students bursting into laughter when Ali said “Oooh! I didn’t know you all knew that up here”. Then he’d proclaim: “Once you find out who you are, then you’ll start saying, I am the greatest!”There Ali was, not as a boxer, but as as a minister for the Nation of Islam, as a Muslim, challenging us to become our better selves and to embrace him for the man he’d chosen to be. And the resistance was wicked and toxic. There was William F Buckley Jr, the Donald Trump of his day (albeit erudite and even principled in comparison): “From my point of view, what Elijah Muhammad is doing to you is diseasing your mind.”And without flinching, Ali responds: “Every black man watching this show know you our enemies. And you have the nerve to stand up here and say Elijah Muhammad is poisoning our minds. He cannot teach us that you our enemy, you taught us!”He was called a “draft-dodger”; whether there even is such a thing, Ali didn’t burn his draft card, flee the country or get some kind of student deferment. He showed up right on time where his induction into the US military was scheduled and refused to step forward. He said “No! I will not go” right in the face of the powers that were dictating his participation in what he understood as a heinous and unjust war on humanity.Muhammad Ali's best quotes: 'Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee' From that moment, Ali took every punch and never wavered. He was sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted of draft evasion, banned from boxing, stripped of his heavyweight title and his passport and was forced to find a new way to make a living. So he did, further developing himself and all of us along the way. His presence grew despite every effort to deny him any audience at all. The harsher the opposition, the greater his support became, until the US supreme court, of all beasts, had no real choice but to overturn his conviction.When I decided to make my own documentary about this period of Ali’s life, my first move was to meet with Muhammad and his wife, Lonnie, in hopes of getting their blessing. They both understood immediately that despite the wealth of material already available about him, no one had made a documentary that focused on these years in exile. Lonnie looked me straight in the eye and said: “But it has to be made independently, I don’t want my husband’s legacy whitewashed.” Then she asked: “What are you going to call the film?” I replied: “Muhammad Ali: The Struggle To Be Free.” “That’s not a good title,” said Lonnie. “It’s never been a struggle for Muhammad to be free; the struggle has belonged to anyone who had trouble accepting how free he has always been.”In this time of mourning and celebration, it seems obvious that he was right all along. But when you’re Muhammad Ali, on the threshold of history looking forward, not knowing how it is going to turn out and being nonetheless ready to go to jail and sacrifice your career, the idea of being who you want to be defines courage.In that sense, we are all Muhammad Ali. We’re all making history every day. We’re in a tremendously dangerous historical moment right now and the choices we are making create the future and define the past simultaneously.As a storyteller, I’m driven by the question of how do you get to be who you are, how do you become yourself. It’s always a struggle, and everyone does it differently. Ali’s journey covers the span of my life. I see it as a prism through which to look at ourselves. I don’t think he set out to be political. I think he set out to be moral. There will never be another Muhammad Ali within the boxing ring. But beyond the boxing ring, he represents the capacity we all have to live truly moral, principled and humane lives. I’m forever grateful to have been graced with his presence and I know his spirit lives on here among us.“I would like to say to those of the press and those of the people who think that I lost so much by not taking this step, I would like to say that I did not lose a thing up until this very moment, I haven’t lost one thing. I have gained a lot. Number one, I have gained a peace of mind. I have gained a peace of heart.”