When Richard Nelson wrote the line in March 2016, it wasn’t supposed to be funny. But close to a year later, when it’s performed in Perth, Australia, after one of the most divisive years in American political history, a dark laugh rings through the audience.“Don’t you feel something really bad is going to happen?” says one character to another.“God, it’s going to be a very long eight months.”The play is Hunger, the first in a critically acclaimed trilogy called The Gabriels: Election Year in the Life of One Family: quiet, moving and naturalistic snapshots of one family struggling to find their feet in a changing America, as they grieve the loss of a loved one. Each play is set in a family home in upstate New York on the same day it opened over the course of last year: the first on a day during the presidential primaries, the second (What Did You Expect?) during the election, and the final (Women of a Certain Age) on election night itself.As with his first “real-time” series, the Apple Family plays, Nelson – playwright and director – had updated each script throughout the previews before locking it down a few hours before each opening night, with references to that day’s weather and news events adding to the aura of contemporariness.But contemporariness only lasts for a moment, and each time his plays are performed their meanings shift. Some things that weren’t meant to be funny became funny after the election, Nelson tells me. “And some things that were meant to be funny became sad.”Single Asian Female review – no topic is taboo in Michelle Law's impressive debut Nelson is a softly-spoken, thoughtful man who followed the election obsessively, consistently. We are sitting in a room above the theatre in Perth where, later that day, his plays will be performed outside America for the very first time. He remembers the opening night of the final play of the trilogy, on the world-changing evening of 8 November 2016 at New York’s Public Theatre.It was around 7pm, and as the press and ticket-holders assembled in the lobby, the election results were trickling in pretty much as expected. But a lot changed in two hours – and as they poured back out of the theatre and scrambled for their phones, the mostly liberal audience found themselves in what was setting up to be a very different world. Hillary Clinton was losing, and Donald Trump was going to be president.“It had shifted,” Nelson says, quietly.“I saw my actors downstairs in the dress room afterwards, we didn’t have any of our phones or anything, so we went into the lobby where the [opening night] party was,” he says. “I walked in and there was Oskar Eustis, the artistic director of the Public Theatre, and he just looked at me and said: ‘It doesn’t look good.’”Eustis himself had had a particularly poignant brush with the US election: the smash hit musical Hamilton, which had premiered at the same theatre under his programming, got a flash of media when then-Republican nominee Trump demanded an apology from its “very rude” cast.But unlike Hamilton, the Gabriel plays aren’t there to recount a world-shifting historical moment; instead, they capture the experience of one, from the perspective of a group of people who are left behind.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Gabriels. ‘The script is simply the Gabriels’ conversation – and in the small theatres it’s been performed in, you feel as though you’re eavesdropping.’ Photograph: Joan Marcus/2016 Joan MarcusThe three plays revolve around the preparation of a meal in the kitchen of the Gabriels: a liberal, middle-class family, all over 50, who live in the once-quaint but swiftly gentrifying town of Rhinebeck in upstate New York.The family’s ageing matriarch Patricia (Roberta Maxwell) has recently lost her playwright son, Thomas, and is about to lose her house. She is joined by her daughter Joyce (Amy Warren), her other son George (Jay O. Sanders), his wife Hannah (Lynn Hawley), Thomas’ third wife and widow Mary (Maryann Plunkett) and, oddly, his first wife Karin (Meg Gibson). Nobody is quite sure who invited Karin, but she’s feeling the weight of Thomas’s death and no one can ask her to leave. With the election of Trump, it became, I think, a play about real loss, and about trying to figure out a way forwardRichard Nelson Five of the six cast-members are women; when he began writing, way back in January 2015, Nelson correctly guessed that women would be a big part of the election year. “I wasn’t confident when I first began writing that it would be Hillary – it could have been Elizabeth Warren – but I figured at this point in our history, in American history, that a woman would figure in the election in a big way,” he says. “So that was the decision that I made.”The script is simply the Gabriels’ conversation – and in the small theatres it’s been performed in, you feel as though you’re eavesdropping. Characters talk over each other, bodies respond and interact in tiny ways, and the unspoken thoughts ring out from each actor as clearly as the words themselves. In some moments, there’s no talk at all – just the warm and familiar sounds and smells of cooking.You could be spying on anyone’s family around the kitchen table – the shared history; the in-jokes and grievances that build – but the year has been tumultuous for this family in particular. The Gabriels are grieving for a loved one. They are watching the decline of their mother. They are battling to keep their home safe from foreclosure, as real estate agents circle like vultures. And all the while they are fighting to find their place in the failed promise of America, in a deeply divisive year. One phrase echoes through each script: “What about us?”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   George (Jay O Sanders) and Patricia (Roberta Maxwell) and in The Gabriels. ‘The Gabriels want to fight back, but don’t know who to fight back at – and in that they are indicative of a sweep of Americans from both sides of the marginalised political spectrum.’ Photograph: Perth festival 2016“If Hillary Clinton had won, [the Gabriels] would have been seen as a warning,” Nelson says. “Like, ‘Careful – this success is built on something that is very tenuous’. But with the election of Trump, it became, I think, a play about real loss, and about trying to figure out a way forward.”But while Clinton, Trump and Democratic contender Bernie Sanders are namechecked, and the media’s role comes up more than once (“What happened to news? It’s all screaming,” Hannah laments), the plays are about broader ideas: art, the economy, gentrification, grief, and the importance of understanding each other. With both sides of politics claiming to fight for the forgotten middle class throughout the election, the Gabriels are standing right in the middle of it: they can barely afford to keep Patricia in assisted living (“They want to pick over her fucking bones,” says George) let alone to keep her house, and one by one they are forced to shake off their stoic dignity and take up second jobs, in the service of the rich.The Gabriels want to fight back, but don’t know who to fight back at – and in that they are indicative of a sweep of Americans from both sides of the marginalised political spectrum: “They’re just trying to take the hits and deal with them as best as possible, as humanely as possible,” Nelson says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Playwright and director Richard Nelson. Photograph: Supplied by Perth FestivalThis isn’t the first time that historical events have impacted on the meaning of Nelson’s work. On Sunday September 9, 2001, his musical adaptation of James Joyce’s The Dead held a preview in Boston. “There’s a song in the piece called Wake The Dead, and it’s a joyous, funny, rambunctious song. We were in previews and people laughed and applauded it, cheered it,” he says. “Then September 11 happened and we didn’t perform that day – but on September 12 we opened, and when we got to Wake the Dead, the audience wept.“The same songs – the actors did nothing different. The audience just wept,” he says. “That kind of relationship is what you hunger for in the theatre ... the feeling that you’ve been somewhere together, that feeling that you’re not alone.”Nelson once considered himself a political playwright, but these days not so much.“The world seemed to change in the 90s, in a very significant way. It brought forward, or brought to clarity, a clear distrust of ideology – and so much disruption of the 20th century had been caused by ideological wars. I wanted to continue to write about my society, but without the ideology ... but if you’re going to write a ‘society play’, what holds that together?” The answer, for him, was family.“I went back to Chekhov, to Ibsen, to O’Neill – to Strindberg, to some extent – and rediscovered the richness of family ... The dynamics of the family, and the histories that one brings into it, are really an opportunity to describe a society – it’s all there. Within the family sits the society. Or the society sits within the family.”These days he writes to be descriptive, not prescriptive, and draws on specificities to capture universal truths. When his character George Gabriel was a child, for instance, he wrote his name in every book; now his mother refers to every signature as a “George”. My family has an in-joke like that too – and suddenly I feel close to the Gabriels.Farewell to the Theatre – review “The writer who’s become a huge influence on me is the English writer Harley Granville Barker,” Nelson says. In fact, he’s written a play about Barker too. “He spoke about his work in a way that I’m trying to bring about in mine: it’s not naturalistic, it’s not realistic; it’s really an effort at verisimilitude. I’m trying to do truth.” He has his actors set the stage themselves before each play begins – we are in a theatre, after all. If the dialogue is hard to follow, that’s verisimilitude too: “The actors are trying not to perform, trying not to relate to the audience.”The overall aim is to bring us closer to the society around us: “For me, the theatre is not a place where you’re trying to convince people of something. It’s trying to describe, so that they see themselves in new ways,” he says. And in a time when, as Mary puts it, “you just find yourself ranting along with everybody else and no one’s listening”, perhaps we need to see ourselves clearly more than ever. • The Gabriels “marathon” runs until 18 February at Perth festival, before the plays tour to Hong Kong festival in February and Brighton festival in May. Guardian Australia was a guest of Perth festival