What single thing would improve the format of the classical concert?The concerts are fine. It’s the snobbery, stuffiness and elitism of the culture that needs working on.What was the first ever record or cd you bought? I was born into a house of classical LPs, so the first I actually bought was jazz in my teens; pianist Oscar Peterson playing Tenderly.What was the last piece of music you bought? I get given a lot, and I presume you mean recordings (as opposed to scores). Probably American composer John Adams.How do you mostly listen to music?Since I’m composing every day, I don’t listen as much as I used to, so CDs in the car, apart from live concerts.What’s your musical guilty pleasure?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest US-stye Country & Western ! There’s some fabulous virtuoso instrumentalists in that genre.If you found yourself with six months free to learn a new instrument, what would you choose?French Horn.Is applauding between movements acceptable?It certainly was in the 18th century, and it was welcomed. The “romantic” era put paid to that and it’s inevitably considered a faux pas when it’s done today. But I think it depends on the piece and style of music. Italian opera audiences often applaud after arias. I think I’d draw the line at sacred or spiritual music where the mood can so easily be destroyed.What’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Klaus Tennstedt conducting Mahler with the London Philharmonic Orchestra at the Royal Festival Hall, or the Miles Davis Quintet in the late 50s.We’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why? Vienna in the 18th century (Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven) would be fascinating, but New York in the late 40s would have it all; the birth of modern jazz, the best of musical theatre on Broadway, the Met opera and the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. My natural habitat, however, would be the early 20th century of Mahler and Richard Strauss.Do you enjoy musicals? Do you have a favourite?Yes. Many, but all American (Gershwin, Cole Porter, Irving Berlin, Sondheim, Bernstein) except for Lionel Bart’s Oliver.Which conductor or performer of yester-year do you most wish you could have worked with? Most of my heroes are composers, and no one has ever co-composed a “classical” work so it would have to be a singer or performer. What about Beethoven playing the piano for me?What is the best new piece written in the past 50 years?Symphony No 15 by Shostakovich, written in 1971. Pity Prokofiev, Stravinsky and Britten didn’t live a bit longer! What’s the most overrated classical work? - ie is there a warhorse whose appeal you really don’t relate to?None really. If it has memorability and durability, which it would have if it’s stood the test of time, then it has worth. What does irritate me is the layman’s assumption that many composers (film, or those that “cross-over” from pop) orchestrate their own music when they don’t. To me it’s part of the craft.Which non-classical musician would you love to work with?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Donald Fagan of Steely Dan performs during the 2007 Jazz and Heritage Festival in New Orleans. Photograph: Dave Martin/APDonald Fagen (Steely Dan)Imagine you’re a festival director here in London with unlimited resources. What would you programme - or commission - for your opening event? My own fanfare!What do you sing in the shower? I don’t sing...It’s late, you’ve had a few beers, you’re in a Karaoke bar. What do you choose to sing? …and if I did, that’s the last place I’d choose.  Karl Jenkins conducts his Requiem at the Royal Festival Hall, London on 6 May; at Symphony Hall, Birmingham on 7 May, and at The Bridgewater Hall, Manchester on 8 May (at 3pm). Details here.