Bugsy is back in town. I mean Bugsy Malone, Sean Holmes’s stage revival of Alan Parker’s 1976 movie in which moppets play mobsters in gangland Chicago during Prohibition. The production was a summer hit last year and should deliver this time round. Holmes’s trick is to find the playfulness in the show while taking the whole thing deadly seriously. Death may be delivered via splurge guns shooting pink blancmange – but that doesn’t make it any less serious.Bugsy Malone review – a sassy, grab-you-by-the-tear-ducts production Too often playing dead on stage is an embarrassment for both the actor and the audience: the writhing, exaggerated death throes, the fact that we can see the corpse is still breathing – often heavily after their exertions. As Tim Etchells observed in the programme note for Forced Entertainment’s Spectacular, in which Claire Marshall died over 75 minutes (surely the longest death scene in theatrical history), there is often something ridiculous about trying to play dead on stage, particularly in a world where we are surrounded by images of death.“When the actor plays dead no one’s fooled for a moment,” wrote Etchells. “We’ve long been gripped by the strange game of playing dead; that particular absurd edge of theatre in which the performers are charged with approaching the one thing, which above all others, perhaps, can’t ever be convincingly represented.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leafing it to the imagination … A cabbage is butchered in Rose Rage. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianIt’s why dying badly on stage has become one of the tropes of comedy theatre from the antics of Mischief Theatre’s The Play That Goes Wrong to Spymonkey and Tim Crouch’s The Complete Deaths, in which all 74 stage deaths in Shakespeare’s plays are re-created. The ancient Greek playwrights knew that it is absence, not an actor covered in fake blood, that makes us understand the permanence of death – and its horror. As Lars von Trier observed in The Kingdom: “Maybe what we’ve shown has troubled you. Don’t be afraid, keep your eyes and ears open. All we can do is try to scare you with stage blood. Only when you avert your eyes have we got you. The real horror lies behind the closed doors.”On stage it is often when death is at its least representational that it is most memorable and effective, although when Katie Mitchell and Ivo van Hove used cameras to give us death in close-up, as we saw recently in The Forbidden Zone and Kings of War it became magnified and harrowing. Bringing back Bugsy Malone: ‘we’ll smell of Angel Delight for months’ Some of my favourite stage deaths include those in Steven Pimlott’s Antony and Cleopatra, where the characters stood up after their demise and walked backwards off the stage as if acknowledging that this is their final exit; the cabbages brutally cleaved in half to represent each death in Edward Hall’s Rose Rage; the buckets of red liquid sloshed in John Doyle’s take on Sweeney Todd; and the burst balloons in Ellen McDougall’s Henry the Fifth and Dan Hutton’s The Spanish Tragedy. Tell us about the onstage deaths that have left an impression on you.