This week was dominated by the untimely deaths of two stars – David Bowie and Alan Rickman. Both died at the age of 69, and both leave bodies of work that have been widely shared by their fans in the wake of their passing. Bowie’s death was marked by many fans with an animated GIF rather than a video – illustrator Helen Green’s striking drawings of the star’s hairstyles throughout his career. Created to mark the Thin White Duke’s 68th birthday, it became one of the defining image of his death almost exactly a year later.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Helen Green’s animated GIF of David BowieIn terms of video, it’s impossible to give more than a taste here of Bowie’s legacy in video, from Space Oddity to Ashes to Ashes to the singles from his latest album Blackstar. Bowie videos broke Adele’s record for the most views in a day on video platform Vevo, with his clips watched 51 million times on Monday. They were led by Bowie’s most recent single, Lazarus, which features the opening line “Look up here, I’m in heaven / I’ve got scars that can’t be seen”. The lyrics took on a new resonance in the wake of the star’s death, while fans scoured the video for references to his career, with some pointing to the skull on the desk (also in the Blackstar promo) and others highlighting that his clothes as he gets into the wardrobe are was identical to an outfit from 1976’s The Man Who Fell To Earth. David Bowie’s Lazarus videoArguably one of the best Bowie videos is also the simplest – Mick Rock’s 1971 promo for Life on Mars? Featuring the star with striking red hair and piercing blue eyeshadow, it allows his personality to shine straight through the screen.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest David Bowie’s Life on Mars? videoFellow musicians’ tributes to Bowie also made waves this week, with Madonna singing Rebel Rebel live in Houston and Elton John performing a piano piece echoing Space Odyssey. Amid all the gloom surrounding Bowie’s death, it’s easy to forget that the singer had a great sense of humour and did a string of turns sending up his cool image, from a voice role in a Spongebob Squarepants movie to a cameo on Zoolander. Perhaps the best is his appearance in Ricky Gervais’s Extras, with the star mocking the comic as a “chubby little loser, national joke”. Here’s an interview in which Bowie gives a deadpan account of his cameo.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest David Bowie on his appearance in ExtrasAlthough he did his share of serious theatical roles, Rickman was also notable for his comic appearances. As well as Severus Snape in the Harry Potter films, he played the deliciously evil Hans Gruber in Die Hard. But perhaps his most memorable comic appearance was as the Sheriff of Nottingham in Robin Hood: Prince Of Thieves, where he pretty much steals the show fom Kevin Kostner with lines such as “Locksley! I’ll cut your heart out with a spoon!”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Alan Rickman - The Sheriff Of NottinghamAnother standout moment was Rickman’s voiceover for Marvin the robot in The Hitchhiker’s Guide To The Galaxy, a masterclass in comic misery. His line “I think you ought to know I’m feeling very depressed” echoed the feelings of many fans this week.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy: Marvin compilationSunday’s Golden Globes provided plenty of headlines this week, from Ricky Gervais ribbing the audience to Jennifer Lawrence telling off a reporter for looking at his phone during a press conference. But the highlight for many viewers was the glimpse of Leonardo DiCaprio’s face as Lady Gaga brushed past on her way to pick up best actress for American Horror Story. His look of horror as the singer appears next to him is a million miles away from a Poker Face.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Leonardo DiCaprio vs Lady Gaga at the Golden GlobesFinally, the week’s most-shared video was Adele’s appearnce in James Corden’s Carpool Karaoke slot. Hearing the Hello star belt out the Spice Girls’ Wannabe is a highlight while her rap of Nicki Minaj’s Monster shows her talents reach beyond singing.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Adele in James Corden’s Carpool Karaoke1) Adele Carpool KaraokeShe’s no wannabe2) Leonardo DiCaprio vs Lady Gaga at the Golden GlobesShady behaviour3) Saoirse Ronan Tries To Teach Stephen Colbert An Irish AccentBrooklyn brogue4) EL VY & Stay Human Pay Tribute To David BowieLet’s dance with Stephen Colbert5) Snowboarding An Empty Water ParkLiquid moves6) The Path on Hulu Teaser Trailer #1 (Official)New show from Breaking Bad’s Aaron Paul looks like cult viewing7) Mulder, Scully and Jimmy Kimmel in The X-FilesDavid Duchovny and Gillian Anderson embrace their return 8) 1 Day Old Sea Otter Trying to Sleep on MomCute overload9) “Tonight Show Celebrity Photobomb” with Jimmy Fallon and Sesame StreetLook out for the “double cookie”10) Dog Knocks Another Dog Off of CouchCanine catastrophe