Hoo-gah. Repeat after me. Rhymes with hula, as in hoop, but with a more pronounced stress on the first syllable. It matters, because this autumn you either need to master the water bottle challenge, or you need to learn to pronounce “hygge”. If you don’t know what the water bottle challenge is, that puts you automatically in the hygge camp.Hygge is a Danish word that roughly translates as cosiness, conviviality, intimacy. It is a homespun, Nordic take on the French concept of joie de vivre. Coffee pots, cinnamon buns, candles; cashmere socks, hands wrapped around mugs. It is a chic way to bow out of the frenzied jollity of party season, but more sociable and fun than the yoga and clean-eating lifestyle. (Hot chocolate and red wine can be hygge, you will be glad to hear.)You will need to know how to pronounce hygge by December at the latest, because it will be inescapable this Christmas. If you don’t get The Little Book of Hygge (£7.99, teapot and china-plate bluebirds on the cover) or Hygge: The Danish Art of Happiness (£12.99, looping, lower-case calligraphic cover) in your office Secret Santa, you will almost certainly get The Art of Hygge (socked feet in front of a fire) or How to Hygge (artfully crumbled baked goods against an wall painted in Farrow & Ball) in your stocking on 25 December. Not to mention the Hygge candle by Cloudberry Living (£15) or the hand-thrown espresso cups or ribbed oatmeal cashmere hot water bottle cover selected from hygge-themed gift displays.Fashion, too, has lost no time in embracing hygge. Norwegian footwear designer Astrid Andreassen sells £60 hygge slippers, in felted Italian wool and natural tan leather, “inspired by the woven baskets that children in Scandinavia make to fill with sweets and hang on the Christmas tree”. The Hygge range from luxury loungewear label Mint Velvet includes charcoal marl leggings, £29, “to wear with knitwear pieces for a luxe layered feel”.Cold comfort form: 10 of the best Hygge pieces – in pictures Hygge tells us a lot of things about how we live now. First, it represents the amplification of Christmas in our culture. Christmas, which used to refer to a few days in December, has expanded into a festive season that begins in November with window displays of fairy lights and sequinned dresses, with themed knitwear days and mince pie popups. (I made that one up, but it can’t be long now.) The premiere of certain Christmas adverts have become an annual red letter day, a retail FA Cup final. In Denmark, hygge is most potent during the long winters, but exists all year round – bicycle rides can be hygge, pebbles can be hygge, blue skies can be hygge – so it is interesting that in translation hygge has become fixed to the winter months. Hygge is a neat trick to take the Christmas feelgood factor and evolve it into something that works as soon as the nights have drawn in, filtering out the garish colourways as deftly as the Inkwell filter on an Instagram selfie. Fireside chic with a longer shelf life.It is easy to see why hygge has got a hold on us this particular winter. 2016 has been a traumatic and abrasive year, spiked with the sudden loss of beloved icons of culture, rocked by moments that have altered the political landscape and our national identity. A heart-rate monitor attached to 2016 would look like the topography of the Rocky mountains, so the soothing balm of hygge is just what the doctor ordered. The Danish anthropologist Jeppe Trolle Linnet, who has written extensively about hygge, says that if a social gathering is hyggelig (adj), this means that “no one will discuss opposite opinions about politics, economic development or raising children”. And if hygge seems at first glance a surprising rebranding of what the “Scandi” or “Nordic” prefixes conjure up in popular culture – from the unsettling Scandi noir of box set sensation fame, with the extreme violence and flawed protagonists of The Killing and The Bridge, to the solid hearth-and-home hygge values – then consider what Agatha Christie represents. Crime dramas have always been perfect Sunday night fodder, once the curtains are drawn and the fire on.The Nordic gift for extrapolating meaning from the everyday, for creating drama without glitz or glamour, has become particularly resonant in a decade that has seen mindfulness morph from a hippy eccentricity to a buzzword that shifts apps by the million. (Headspace has more than 3 million users in 150 countries.) Intrinsic to hygge is the concept of lavishing your full attention on ordinary moments; lighting a scented candle on the family breakfast table, for example. The Norwegian author Karl Ove Knaussgard, whose six-volume autobiography is an immersion in the everyday, a 4,000-page page-turner with barely a cliffhanger, is made compelling by what Zadie Smith called an ability “to be fully present in and mindful of his own existence”. Hygge is being sold by the yard this Christmas, but in its native habitat it is not a trend, but a way of life. There are many mini-rituals connected to hygge: fika, for instance, is a Swedish word for the hygge-esque ritual of breaking for coffee and cake once or twice a day.Hygge reflects the way we live now in that it gathers interiors, entertaining, food and fashion into one cohesive picture, like a perfectly curated Instagram still life. But it is in fashion where it is disrupting the norm, because – in contrast to almost any other fashion trend – the hygge wardrobe is about how clothes feel, rather than how they look. Hygge is a verb as well as a noun, and the hygge wardobe is an experience, not an aesthetic. This may be the future of fashion.Which is odd, because we have forgotten how to talk about fabric and construction. A generation that shops online and for whom at-home dressmaking is folklore, rather than family memory are seldom inclined to inspect seams or feel the weight of fabric in the way their mothers would have. Nonetheless, there is a clear appetite for clothes that feel nice, which has already made itself felt in the rise of cashmere as a status tag in itself. Cashmere is a brand that stands for pleasure and indulgence, like Häagen-Dazs.This matters, because the biggest change in consumer habits of the past decade is that we spend our disposable income on experience over possessions. Millennials will choose to spend their money on an event, rather than a thing. There are solid economic factors behind this, not least that the rise in house prices has produced a generation of adults who are not homeowners, and who are therefore inclined to treat their salaries as pocket money rather than housekeeping. Meanwhile, social media has turned individual experience into social and cultural capital. We are aware of the lives of those around us, from their teen sleepovers to festivals to long-haul winter holidays, in real time. Other people’s photos are part of the daily fabric of modern life.Virtual reality is about to explode the market for experiences. The incoming launch of virtual reality at a consumer level will take the possibilities of selling experience to another level. What began with a boom in festivals and live music and eating out, and expanded into augmented reality with Pokémon Go this summer, will grow exponentially once VR offers highly desirable “experiences” through a headset. Just as Fomo-driven debt replaced shoe addiction as the twentysomething’s financial achilles heel, VR could make a skydive over Mount Everest, or a close encounter with a leopard – or, for that matter, a dinosaur – available to click and buy. If these temptations make fashion feel two-dimensional, then fully immersive fashion that feels as good as it looks may become more appealing.Balenciaga, which with Georgian designer Demna Gvasalia at the helm is perhaps the most avant-garde, agenda-setting brand in fashion right now, put the tactile experience of clothes at the centre of its Paris SS17 fashion show a fortnight ago. An exploration of “the intimate relationship between couture and fetishism which runs beneath the surface”, the show focused on how it feels when fabric touches skin. It was about the intimacy of a couturier pinning and draping fabric around a woman’s body, and the intensity of sensation in wearing wet-look Spandex, or very high heels. All very different from the cosy world of hygge, but the focus on how the wearer experiences what she is wearing is the same. Don’t be fooled by the soporific fireside glow, because hygge is more radical than you might think.