Gordon Buchanan has just got out of hospital. With malaria. Yes, the man who makes his living chasing lions, wrestling giant anaconda and hauling crocodiles has been brought down by that most tiny of beasts – the mosquito. “I’m not going to say I think I was dying,” he tells me, “but I imagine people who are dying feel a lot like that.”In his upcoming documentary series, Tribes, Predators and Me, Buchanan joins the world’s most remote tribes to observe how they live alongside nature’s most deadly predators. He joins a Waorani family in Ecuador’s Amazon jungle as they hunt for anaconda as part of a strength-giving ritual, visits the bushmen of the Kalahari who live among lions, and travels up the Sepik river in Papua New Guinea to learn how the Ngala call and hunt for crocodiles in the mud.Buchanan has spent over 20 years capturing the world’s wonders as a wildlife film-maker, from recording back-garden foxes in Springwatch to spending a year living with the black bears of Minnesota in The Bear Family and Me. His transformation from cameraman to presenter led famously to footage of him being brought to tears when he discovered tigers living above 3,000m in the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Buchanan with Xao Qam, Xaashe and Qamme, the Lion People of the Kalahari. Photograph: Hector Skevington Postles/BBC/Hector Skevington-PostlesIf the predator-tracking he’s doing now sounds like a recipe for macho back-slapping, think again. “The bushmen in the Kalahari seem to be completely without ego,” says Buchanan, who insists the show is more about bravery than machismo. “As soon as they saw me struggling, to keep up or find tracks, they would immediately assist me. In a place like that, life is hard enough as it is – your only chance of surviving is together.” Going on a hunt felt strangely familiar. Every one of us a few thousand years ago was running barefoot through woods In the Woarani episode, as the tribal people chase, shoot and kill a spider monkey, Buchanan turns to the camera and says that the hunter is never far from the surface. Did he feel intimidated by the other men’s strength? “No, no. It’s funny – that machismo wasn’t there. Machismo is just a corrupted version of hunting to survive. Instead of being uncomfortable, going on a hunt felt strangely familiar. Every one of us, just a few thousand years ago, was running barefoot through woods and hunting with bow and arrows.”The biggest hurdle, he says, wasn’t strolling into the path of a feasting lion and her cubs, or squeezing a giant snake out from under a log – it was trying to make a good impression with his hosts. “I realised with each place, very very quickly, that the differences between humans all over the planet is negligible,” he says. “You don’t have to share a language to understand what’s being communicated.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Anyone who eats meat should be prepared to do every part of the process: the hunting, the killing, the butchering,’ says Buchanan. Photograph: BBC/Chris DandridgeBuchanan was keen not to fetishise the so-called exoticism of the people he was staying with, but simply to point out how much we in the west have to learn from native communities. “It’s not them who are having a negative impact on the environment,” he says. “If they continue to be able to live in the way they have done for thousands of years, that lifestyle is sustainable. We tend to look to scientists for all the answers, but for tribal cultures that have coexisted with large predators and who know plant species better than anyone, it would be crazy not to harness their expertise.” There’s something way more wrong about chucking overripe avocados in the bin than shooting a monkey in a forest While climate change, destruction of natural habitat, pollution, corporate irresponsibility and CO2 emissions are all, at last, part of regular western discourse, how has that information been passed on to the indigenous people? “The Woarani know the forest is being cut down; that there’s drilling and mining exploration. It was very easily explained to them that the pollutants that come off those processes can get into the river and harm the wildlife,” says Buchanan. “It made complete sense to them that they have to have their voice heard – and they have the fight within them to stand up to these large corporations.”While staying with the bushmen in the Kalahari, Buchanan had to literally shoo a lion away from a deer carcass so the village had some meat to eat. Did he feel strange about eating the animals living around him? “There’s something way more wrong about opening your fridge and chucking overripe avocados in the bin than shooting a monkey in a forest,” says Buchanan. “Anyone who eats meat should be prepared to do every part of the process: the hunting, the killing, the butchering. It dismays me that if you go to a supermarket, meat doesn’t even look like meat. God forbid there’s a tiny tuft of a feather on a piece of chicken.”In many ways, says Buchanan, living with these remote tribes was a welcome break from the excesses and guilt of modern western life. “I normally tiptoe around apologising for every light switch, every time I boil the kettle, every time I jump in the car. Modern life is designed to make you feel guilty, if you care about the world. But when you see these people living in their environment you think, ‘Ah yeah, people are remarkable, we are capable of amazing things.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘When you see these people living in their environment you think, “Ah yeah, we are remarkable, capable of amazing things.”’ Photograph: BBC/Hector Skevington-PostlesOne of the most arresting (not to mention Freudian) images from the show is of Buchanan and four Woarani tribesmen wrestling and ceremonially holding a giant anaconda in the jungle. Did he feel terrified thinking about all the ways it could have gone horribly wrong? “There was an adrenaline slump afterwards. I felt really, really tired. Before we picked it up I really didn’t want to do it. If they’d said it was a bad omen, I would genuinely have been like, ‘Ah good choice, let’s go back to camp and eat some more pig’s testicles.’ But it was an experience like no other.”These experiences may seem terrifying but, says Buchanan, he couldn’t help but feel emboldened by the people he lived with. “The Woarani are the toughest people on the planet. I’d put any one of them in a ring with the meanest boxers in the world. Their bravery is infectious, really. I’ll never be a bushmen, or a Woarani, but I can give it my best shot to see what that life is like.”And if that means eating the odd pig testicle or risking a bout of malaria? Bring it on.Tribes, Predators and Me starts on BBC2 on Sunday at 9pm. 