“This is probably a very unpopular thing to say,” the director Peter Greenaway has said, “but all film writers should be shot.”The provocative call to arms, although not literal arms, was made by Greenaway to an audience at the headquarters of Bafta.Greenaway was speaking at a ‘Life in Pictures’ retrospective event celebrating a career which has included films such as The Draughtsman’s Contract; The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover and The Pillow Book.Nearly always outspoken and controversial, the Amsterdam-based Greenaway did not disappoint at Bafta when he complained that cinema was always going “back to the bookshop” for its content. Eisenstein in Guanajuato review – torrential meditation on sex and film “Obvious example, you know Harry Potter and The Lord of the Rings, but everybody else from Almodóvar to Godard to Eisenstein, we have created a cinema where a producer has to be satisfied with a text first before he will give you the money.“I think that’s, you know, rather unfortunate.”He added: “I always think, and this is probably a very unpopular thing to say, that all film writers should be shot. We do not need a text-based cinema … we need an image-based cinema.”Greenaway said text has so many opportunities. “For 8,000 years we’ve had lyric poetry, for 400 years we’ve had the novel, theatre hands its meaning down in text. Let’s find a medium whose total, sole responsibility is the world as seen as a form of visual intelligence. Surely, surely, surely the cinema should be that phenomenon.”Greenaway’s other bugbears include the remote control. He told the audience: “I believe that cinema died on the 31 September 1983 when the zapper or the remote control was introduced into the living rooms of the world. “Bang! Cinema ceases to be passive and becomes active, you the audience are now in some senses in charge of the filmmaking process. You have all got mobile phones, you have all got cam recorders, and you’ve all got laptops, so you’re all filmmakers.”Greenaway’s films tend to divide people, they are elegant masterpieces to some; self-indulgent, pretentious nonsense to others.His latest film about his hero, the Soviet director Sergei Eisenstein, is no less controversial or divisive.Eisenstein in Guanajuato tells a story of Eisenstein having a 10-day love affair with the man guiding him around Mexico.Giving it four stars the Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw said some sequences were simultaneously touching and absurd – “or, maybe some really do pontificate on Bolshevik history while being anally penetrated, who am I to say otherwise?”Greenaway said he had many fans in Russia due to the popularity of The Cook, the Thief, His ife and Her Lover but he suggested the relationship was cooling now that he was saying Eisenstein was gay. “I have had suggestions that I’m an outsider and have no business making pictures, making films about a Russian national hero,” he said.“Please don’t run away with the idea that I’m remotely detrimental about notions of Eisenstein, but I think the way we’ve made the film is to show how human he is.”