A major exhibition exploring the multiple revolutions of the late 1960s – from flower power and music to wide-reaching social, cultural and intellectual changes – is to open at the V&A museum in London.More than 200 LPs from the collection of the late Radio 1 DJ John Peel will be displayed in the show, which opens in the autumn and will be run by the team behind the V&A’s blockbusting David Bowie show.They are reuniting to explore the fabulous music, the avant-garde films, the drugs, the miniskirts, the flares, the hair, the nudity, the sex, the riots, the humour, the absolute refusal to dress anything like your mum or dad. And then the downhill aftermath with the arrival of the 70s.Co-curator Victoria Broackes said Peel’s record collection would “form the spine of the exhibition” when it opens in the autumn. “That’s because the show explores a period where society and music went hand in hand; music was a vital form of communication amongst young people and music will be integral to the exhibition,” she said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Peel at Reading festival, circa 1970. Photograph: Keystone/Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesThe albums include songs the pioneering Peel would have played while presenting his late-night pirate radio show The Perfumed Garden on Radio London in 1967.Peel’s albums, from Al Stewart’s angst-filled Love Chronicles to Joan Baez’s David’s Album to the Zombies’ Odessey and Oracle, will go on display and visitors will wear headsets from sponsor Sennheiser to listen to the Beatles, Pink Floyd, Sam Cooke or Jimi Hendrix.Broackes said the exhibition was more than a “a trip down memory lane” and would consider the effect of the years, good or bad, on our lives today.Co-curator Geoffrey Marsh, director of the V&A’s theatre and performance department, agreed. “We are trying to show the complexity and how things such as the music, clothes and graphics interact together,” he said.“Also the 60s were different things to different people. If you were hanging out at a West End club, it must have been great fun. If you were in the East End, with the docks closing and factories shutting, it wasn’t the ball a lot of people remember it as.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christine Keeler arrives at court in October 1963. Photograph: Hulton GettyThe show recreates Carnaby Street and recaps the Profumo affair, allowing the V&A to display one of the more interesting chairs it has in its collection, the one sat on by Christine Keeler as she posed for the famous photographs by Lewis Morley.One of the most significant and rare loans is from George Harrison’s widow, Olivia. She is allowing, for the first time, the V&A to borrow her late husband’s peach-coloured Sgt Pepper suit. It will go on display next to John Lennon’s vibrant yellow suit and near to handwritten lyrics for Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds.Other highlights include a moon rock on loan from Nasa and the space suit worn on the Apollo 8 mission by William Anders, the man who took the Earthrise photograph in 1968.The show will explore the period’s momentous legal changes. In 1967 alone, homosexuality was decriminalised, an unmarried woman could finally be prescribed the pill and abortion was legalised. In 1968, theatre censorship ended, which led, the following day, to the opening of Hair.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A scene from the musical Hair, starring Paul Nicholas (centre), in 1968. Photograph: Larry Ellis/Getty ImagesAnd it will look at how quickly things unravelled. It was not long before the Oz trial, the Charles Manson murders, the Baader-Meinhof gang and the Red Brigade, the election of Richard Nixon and the oil crisis. In music, the Beatles broke up; Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin and Jim Morrison died young.The exhibition launch was held on Friday in the dark, intimate Bag O’Nails club near Carnaby Street in London, a cool-cat hangout where politician John Profumo was first introduced to Keeler and Paul McCartney met his wife Linda. Martin Roth, the director of the V&A, said it was one of the most important exhibitions he had been involved with. “This ambitious framing of the late 1960s counterculture shows the incredible importance of that revolutionary period to our lives today,” he said.“This seminal exhibition will shed new light on the wide-reaching social, cultural and intellectual changes of the late 1960s that followed the austerity of the postwar years, not just in the UK, but throughout the western world.”It was also the time when pioneering hippies in California were taking the first steps on one of the most important revolutions – computers. The exhibition will include a contemporary replica of the first computer mouse and a film from 1968 where its inventor, Doug Engelbart, confidently asserts: “We’re calling this a mouse for the moment, I’m sure somebody will come up with a better name.”• You Say You Want a Revolution? Records and Rebels 1966-70 is at the V&A, 10 September-26 February 2017, sponsored by Levi’s and Sennheiser.