Asking someone like Manu Chao where he calls home seems a fairly pointless question. He was born in Paris to parents of Spanish origin, he sings in French, Spanish, English, Italian, Arabic, Galician and Portuguese and he has spent years touring Latin America.But Barcelona is probably about as good an answer as you’re going to get. It’s not just that Chao has lived in the city for many years, his music also reflects the chaotic, hippyish melting pot that is the modern Catalan capital, a city where you’re as likely to see someone juggling poi in the park or practising capoeira as studying Gaudí’s architecture.Last Saturday, Chao made his live return to Barcelona, playing a free outdoor gig as part of the festivities around the city’s co-patron saint, La Mercè. He hadn’t played Barcelona in years – the Esperanzah! festival where he performed in 2015 takes place in the suburbs – and the last time he played as part of La Mercè, in 2001, 60,000 people showed up. Saturday’s gig, then, was a hero’s homecoming, not unlike the Stone Roses playing a free concert in Manchester – if the Stones Roses were knit-cap-wearing world travellers. Sure enough, Chao filled the Fòrum (better known as the venue for Primavera Sound) to its 60,000 limit, despite forecasts of dire weather.Clandestino: the story of Manu Chao's classic album For those in the English-speaking world this might come as a surprise. Manu Chao was popular in the UK and the US in the 2000s, shifting about 500,000 copies of his debut album Clandestino in the States. But that was nothing compared to his fame in mainland Europe and Latin America, where he can still fill stadiums. With no new studio album since La Radiolina in 2007 and no UK gigs since 2011, Chao may have slipped off the Anglophone radar of late, but that’s not to say he’s been slacking. As well as working on new material, Chao keeps up a busy schedule of summer festival appearances in Europe and Latin American and recently helped to produce the new album by Tobagonian singer Calypso Rose. But for many music fans in Britain, Chao’s success feels like a dream brought on by too many red wines and late nights, destined to be filed and forgotten alongside tie-dyed T-shirts. It’s a shame, because this Barcelona gig showed precisely why Chao remains a global superstar, a stadium rocker who stands apart from conventional wisdom.The name of Chao’s first live album, Radio Bemba Sound System, offers a clue as to why he is so far from the average rocker, its name hinting at a live modus operandi that owes almost as much to sound system culture as traditional rock mores. During Saturday’s concert, which stretched from 11.45pm until almost three in the morning, Chao mixed and matched his best-known songs, with musical themes from one track layered on to another in the style of a giant DJ mix. So Bongo Bong, possibly his biggest hit, turned up rockified and steely in the extended coda to La Primavera, while the chorus to Mr Bobby was a returning musical theme throughout the night.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Manu Chao … ‘Hands up who wants to hear some Chas and Dave!’ Photograph: Francesc MeseguerThe impression of a freewheeling party megamix was underlined by the variety of guest singers and musicians who joined Chao on stage, including habitual support act Dani Lança and Basque punk rocker Fermin Muguruza, who contributed to covers of their own songs. The sound of ska could be heard throughout in the band’s frantic off-beat guitar scratches and strident brass, while there were shades of everything from chanson to salsa to Catalan rumba in the mix, the latter notable on a scorching Rumba de Barcelona, one of several nods to Chao’s hometown.The conflagration of ska, rumba and salsa felt appropriate in a city with a large Latin American population and where Bob Marley is a god. However, that’s not to say Manu Chao entirely shuns the Anglo musical lexicon. The influence of punk was strong, both in the frenetic lurch of Radio Bemba and the way a good two-thirds of the songs ended up in a double-time punk thrash, a trick that was both effective and wearing on the ears. Contributing further to the music potpourri was a layer of sound effects – police sirens and so on – that underpinned proceedings. It was a stirring mix and the crowd reacted warmly, even when the heavens opened with an hour to go. But the standout musical moments came when Chao played things relatively straight, as on gorgeously uncluttered versions of Desaparecido and Clandestino.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The gig felt like a massive success:  local paper Ara called Chao the “king of the Mercè”, while  El Periódico hailed “the soul of the party” in its gushing review. Certainly, the crowd was delighted, exhibiting the kind of fleet-footed bounce you don’t often see two and a half hours into a gig in the early hours of a wet Sunday morning. The atmosphere was spectacular, too, with up to 20 people pogoing away on stage and the crowd following the peculiarly Catalan tradition of showering each other with firework sparks while singing along loudly.But doubts remain as to where Manu Chao goes from here. His work with Calypso Rose on her recent album  Far From Home opened new vistas, but you would be hard pressed to spot the difference between the Manu Chao of 2016 and the singer who played three nights at the Brixton Academy in 2007. He covered Fuera Monsanto, a 2013 song by Argentinian band Perro Verde, but there was no sign of new material that might indicate a long-awaited follow up to La Radiolina, nine years on (though it can be hard to work out exactly what Chao is playing at any given point).For the 60,000 who sang their lungs out on Saturday night, that didn’t seem to matter. You could even argue that a record like Clandestino so comprehensively nailed Chao’s unique musical charm that anything else will always pale in comparison. But for someone so obviously talented as Chao, a songwriter who can turn out a song as effortlessly emotive and enduringly relevant as Desaparecido, retreading old ground feels a little underwhelming. Local hero or not.