They say you should start with the shoes, and the first thing I notice about Lawrence Osborne is a pair of two-tone brogues. Footwear is important to him: his characters often find their sturdy brown British leather on unfamiliar ground. “Shoes tell you a lot about someone,” he says. “Think of Strangers on a Train. The first thing we see are Bruno’s shoes. We know right away that something is up.”Osborne says his own are “spectators; people wore them to sporting occasions”, but together with his ivory-coloured suit they seem like part of a costume. The whole meeting is theatrical. For one thing, he insists that I go for a massage beforehand – “the best cure for jet lag” – and he picks me up from the spa. He is tall, with a rich actor’s voice, apart from a surprisingly high-pitched laugh. As we step into the vegetal fug of the Bangkok evening he hails two moped taxis which weave through honking traffic to deliver us to a nearby restaurant. He orders for both of us in Thai. The waitress is impressed.“Past a certain level my Thai is shitty, but they’re not used to white people speaking it. You get so many foreign correspondents who don’t speak the language,” he says. “It’s staggering.” This tone, a kind of angry bafflement at the way many western writers approach foreign cultures, especially in Asia, is one of the engines of his fiction.After a nomadic life Osborne, 57, has quietly built a reputation as one of Britain’s most accomplished novelists. Unusually in the age of Instagram and Twitter, he has let the work speak for itself. The best writers tend to have a specific subject matter to which they constantly return: Osborne tells dark, thrilling tales of travellers coming unstuck in alien cultures. Paul Bowles and Graham Greene are his obvious pole stars, with Patricia Highsmith, Evelyn Waugh and Asian cinema also in the firmament. His prose has a measured quality that echoes his plots, which drag his characters steadily but inexorably to their fates.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Working here has been a way of reflecting on my own culture, and also on myself’: Osborne catches a water taxi in Bangkok. Photograph: Nana Chen for the ObserverIn 2012 he published The Forgiven, the story of an English couple whose lives unravel when they run over a local boy in Morocco, which found itself on many books of the year lists. In 2014 he followed it with The Ballad of a Small Player, an eerie retelling of the Faust myth. Reviewing it for the Sunday Times, Robert Collins wrote: “At precisely the point where most novelists start to show signs of flagging, Osborne… has arrived as a thrilling, exceptional talent in British fiction’s landscape.” Last year came Hunters in the Dark, about a young schoolteacher in Cambodia. In the Evening Standard David Sexton described it as “pitilessly good”, and said that comparisons with Greene “aren’t even flattering any more”.Out of the glare of any western literary “scene”, Osborne’s talent has flourished. “So many writers live their whole lives in rooms,” he says. “You can be too civilised in the environment you have around you, too oriented towards speaking engagements and literary festivals and dinner parties. That has no interest for me these days. You get to a point where you don’t care any more. At that point you can start to write.” Novels should be bleach boned. It’s a question of lived suffering. It takes time Yet Osborne did not emerge completely from obscurity. He published his first novel, Ania Malina, in 1986. It is a Lolita-esque romance set in the aftermath of the Second World War. He wrote it during a winter in Italy when he and his then-wife were living on an olive farm in Tuscany. The novel found a publisher and good reviews. But a comic second book, The Angelic Game – “a piece of shit” – sank unlamented. After that, no novels until 2012.“I was writing fiction the whole time, but it just wasn’t any good. Sometimes you can publish a first novel in a kind of lyrical flourish, but it is not really a lyrical form. The beautiful truths about the world are more hard won than that. Novels should be bleach boned. It’s a question of cumulative observation and lived suffering. It takes time.”Osborne’s father worked in market research; his mother was a journalist who also wrote radio plays. They lived in southwest London until Osborne was nine, when they moved to Haywards Heath. “My parents were decent, aspirant first generation middle-class. They read Reader’s Digest, listened to classical music; my grandparents had a bust of Stalin on the mantelpiece. The kids of that generation were terrified of being below par, class-wise.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Osborne in 2008: ‘Beautiful truths about the world are hard won.’ Photograph: Chris WiseHe says he was a “teenage fuck-up” and didn’t show much academic interest until his late teens, when he decided to learn Greek with the help of “this courtly gay guy teaching at a prep school up the road”. Cambridge was sufficiently impressed to offer him a place to study English, and he went on to a Masters at Harvard but didn’t like the look of academia. “It attracts weak personalities, and I couldn’t see myself playing politics on campus.” Instead he moved to Paris.“I didn’t know anyone there, so I went to the American church and looked through the personal ads. There was one desiring an ‘English gentleman for English lessons’. It turned out to be a raving gay left-wing priest, who had become famous during the Algerian war. He was a tiny man with shoulder-length dyed hair and a motorbike in his flat.” There he remained until the priest’s advances got too much. “It got to the point where he was hammering on the door of my room and I would let myself out through the window. I became terrified.”His wife, six years his junior, was the daughter of celebrated Polish musicians, and through their connections they arranged for the couple to run a collective blueberry farm near the Russian border. “We slept in a barn on a huge mountain of straw – it was wonderfully romantic, although of course communist Poland was a fucked-up place. There was nothing to eat. I was very lefty at the time, but it turned me off that whole model of the world.” Soon came a son, Tad, and a return to Paris, where Osborne wrote a nonfiction book called Paris Dreambook, a gothic exploration of the city’s hidden corners.A chance call took him to San Diego. “This guy who owned the San Diego Reader had read the Paris book and rang me out of the blue. He offered me more money per piece than I had got for the books. I got on the plane with about $25, two T-shirts and a pair of jeans.” Osborne wrote magazine articles until he got fired. His marriage was disintegrating for “a variety of reasons. We got married too young. We were children.” My mother died as I went to interview Almodóvar. It was like therapy Osborne moved to New York, where 1980s Brooklyn provided a lifestyle “like Withnail & I”, with no money and something approaching a serious drink problem. At his lowest ebb, he stole a stilton from a shop on 3rd Avenue. “I figured that if you steal a piece of cheese someone is going to stop you. If you steel a whole cheese you have credibility. I went home and ate that motherfucker with a teaspoon.”His break came when the New York Times commissioned him to write a feature on deaf children in Nicaragua. “Suddenly I was this ‘well known journalist’,” he says. The New Yorker sent him to Papua New Guinea. He became Vogue’s wine columnist. “Anna Wintour asked if I wanted healthcare or business class travel. I took the travel.” Osborne eventually came to Bangkok for cheap dentistry and because he realised the pay for a single New York Times piece could last six months here.Yet he is scornful of journalism as a serious career. “Cyril Connolly was right. It is the enemy of promise. You get used to the rhythm of the world, and the power that comes from working for a large publication. If you say you’re from the New York Times presidents will call you back.”He is withering about the “inherited arrogance and contempt” of white people, and points out that NGOs which spent 15 years looking for trafficking in Thailand never found anything. “Last month two girls drowned in Thailand trying to escape from an anti-trafficking asylum run by a Texan Baptist church. Twenty hours of Bible study a day for devout Buddhist girls. They climbed the fence and threw themselves into the river.”There’s the anger again. Written down it doesn’t do justice to Osborne’s company, which is excellent. His ambivalence about the London literary scene should not be mistaken for not caring what people think. He is a fine host and a natural raconteur. We talk about Japanese food, whiskey, tailoring, weightlifting, cinema, the damaging effects of social media. His journalism has led to nonfiction books on various subjects – Bangkok Days, a memoir of his time in Thailand, came out in 2011.In the book he describes eating insects, sleeping with prostitutes. He is mystified by western prudishness around sex work, which he says is a “neurosis”. Perhaps Buddhism, where you might once have been a dog, makes it easier to separate sex from love. “My girlfriend, who is Thai, cannot understand [our obsession with prostitution]. I ask her and she’s like: ‘What is wrong with you people? Is it Christianity? Why must you go around with this sense of glowering doom?’”In 2000 the New York Times sent him to Morocco to write about the trilobite mines. Nearly a decade later, a chance encounter sowed the seed of the novel that would make his reputation. “At a party I was told this story about a couple on a trip to Morocco who had run over and killed a local boy. It’s every middle-class person’s nightmare.” A first draft came out in six weeks. He pitched it to a young editor at Random House, Charlie Conrad, who bought the book on the spot. “Charlie said to me at the start: ‘Nobody knows you, so you better make sure this book is really good. Not just half-good. It has to be perfect.”His mother died before she saw it published. “She’d waited all her life, in a way, for me to go back to fiction. She was always telling me to stop being a journalist, to be serious, to stop being an asshole. I should have listened. She died on 11 September 2011, which was spooky. Right after that Newsweek sent me to interview Pedro Almodóvar in Madrid, but it ended up being like therapy, Almodóvar saying: ‘So, tell me about your mother.’”You feel his mother would have been proud of The Forgiven. Its success led to The Ballad of a Small Player, about “Lord Doyle”, a provincial solicitor on the run in Macau, and to Hunters in the Dark, his most recent and best novel, which tells of a young teacher who goes missing in Cambodia. Like Doyle, he runs into a sum of money and then quickly into trouble.Nobody in Osborne’s books survives contact with money for long, perhaps a consequence of his own long stints of poverty. “Most British people still die in the class we are born,” he says. He works in a rented apartment, on a quiet, leafy street north of Bangkok’s traffic-clogged main artery. His death certificate hangs on the wall, “a sobering thing to look up at”, the legacy of an article he wrote on people who fake their own deaths to claim the insurance payouts. “This part of the world is full of escapees,” he says. “They’re not all con men.”His next novel will be a “lesbian love story” about an Irish chef in Bangkok. A film of The Forgiven is in the pipeline. Beyond that, Italy is an appealing setting, in particular since the migration crisis. “There’s this island, Favignana. It might have been Calypso’s island in Homer’s Odyssey, there’s Phoenician graffiti on the walls, and now these African migrants are turning up.” Fertile ground, perhaps, for Osborne’s themes of culture clash in ancient landscapes. For now he is happy in Bangkok, walking streets he knows well, writing to the music of tree frogs and cooled by night-time breezes through his window. Tad, a budding chocolate maker, passes through Tokyo, where it is, relatively speaking, easier for father and son to meet up.“Working here has been a way of reflecting on my own culture, and also on myself. The illusion of a career was very damaging to me. At 35 I was manic about it, desperate for approval, but I was exhausted. Eventually you realise you just have something to say before you die, which is, what, a few books? You say what you’ve got to say and then Nunc dimittis, off we go. There’s not much more to it than that.”Hunters in the Dark by Lawrence Osborne is published by Hogarth at £12.99. To order a copy for £10.39, go to bookshop.theguardian.com. The paperback is out in AprilThe article was amended on 16 Febriuary 2016 to remove a name and also to correct the fact that the two girls were drowned at Nonthaburi in Thailand, not Cambodia.