Scruffts: Britain’s Favourite Dog 8pm, Channel 4The affectionately titled Scruffts is an alternative, less formal competition for crossbreed dogs ineligible for Crufts. Here, we follow some of the prospective pooches and their owners vying to reach the Scruffts final held, sportingly, at Crufts itself. With the competitors whittled down from 1,500 to six, we see the elite hounds parade their stuff in the hope of being crowned Britain’s favourite family crossbreed dog. David StubbsUnreported World 7.30pm, Channel 4Ade Adepitan has presented several excellent editions of a current affairs strand that persistently finds fresh, vital stories in unfamiliar locations. He’s our guide as it returns. This week’s issue is animal trafficking: the illegal capture, slaughter and trade of endangered species. Adepitan is in Iquitos, a Peruvian city where backstreet dealers and market traders brazenly tout sickening wares on a startling scale. Jack SealeJudge Rinder’s Crime Stories8pm, ITVSnake-hipped barrister Judge Rinder escapes his courtroom to indulge in a new series of true crime. He opens with the case of Victor Nealon, who was sentenced to life for attempted rape after a woman was assaulted on her way home from a nightclub. Nealon spent 17 years trying to clear his name and Rinder tells his story with reconstructions, interviews and a look at the evidence. Plus, of course, his very serious face. Hannah VerdierRich Hall’s Countrier Than You9pm, BBC4Rich Hall brings his aesthete-in-hick’s-clothing sensibility to the development of country music. He visits rustic studios, examines country’s enduring ability to absorb external influences into its musical blueprint and ponders the crucial differences between Nashville and Austin. Hall has the enviable knack of combining unforced hilarity and deadly seriousness, and this approach couldn’t be more perfectly suited to the subject matter at hand. Phil HarrisonThe Shires: New Country10.30pm, BBC4Country music, reckons DJ Bob Harris’s producer, “isn’t for hipsters in Shoreditch”. Well, that rather depends on the artist: Gillian Welch or Gram Parsons, sure; bestselling UK country act and Radio 2 staples the Shires, well, probably not. Here, the duo embark on their second album tour and a trip to Nashville, where a quiet sea change may be taking place (“I think country demands reform,” says fellow country artist Sarah Shook). Ali Catterall Alone 9pm, HistoryHow long could you last alone in a rugged, rainy and apparently puma-infested wilderness? That’s the central premise of this surprisingly soulful US reality show, which scatters 10 amateur survivalists across a remote region of Patagonia so massive that their paths never cross. A presumably tough selection process has produced a group of immensely likable candidates, while the elemental setting seems to encourage thoughtful self-reflection. Graeme Virtue Divided States of America 9pm, PBS AmericaHow did the US reach the point where its current commander in chief could accuse his predecessor of wire-tapping and not be laughed out of office? It’s fair to say that these are unusual times and the situation represents prime territory for PBS to explore in its customarily exhaustive style. Expect first-hand insight into divisions, not just within the nation as a whole but inside its two main political parties. PHFilm choiceGhostbusters (Paul Feig, 2016) 11.45am, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereBill Murray and the boys get an all-girl makeover, and what a high-spirited update this is. Kristen Wiig is boffin Erin, who is obliged to team up with old schoolmate and top ghostbuster Abby (Melissa McCarthy), engineer Holtzmann (Kate McKinnon) and New York subway worker Patty (Leslie Jones). Together they hilariously kick ectoplasmic butt, with little help from Chris Hemsworth’s hunky-but-dim secretary Kevin.A Simple Plan (Sam Raimi, 1998) 1.05am, BBC2Three ordinary Minnesota guys – storeman Hank (Bill Paxton), his slow-on-the-uptake brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) and redneck friend Lou (Brent Briscoe) – find a crashed plane containing $4m in a snowy wood. Their simple plan – to hang on to the loot – leads to one death after another. Raimi’s snowbound, intelligent thriller is an original, with the brothers’ relationship at its aching heart. Paul HowlettLive sportHorse Racing: Cheltenham Festival 1pm, ITV. The final day of the festival including the prestigious Gold Cup at 3.30pm.Championship Football: Bristol City v Huddersfield Town 7pm, Sky Sports 1. Promotion contenders Huddersfield visit Ashton Gate.Test Cricket: India v Australia 3.50am, Sky Sports 2. The third day of the third Test in Ranchi.