 This is the story of 50 years in which Britain struggled to reconcile the past she could not forget with the future she could not avoid. It is the history of an attitude to history itself. It is a record not of triumph, but rather of bewilderment concerning a question that lay in wait, throughout the period, to trouble successive leaders of the nation, and which latterly tested some of them to destruction. Could Britain, the question ran, truly accept that her modern destiny was to be a European country?At the beginning of the half-century, with a world war barely over, Winston Churchill first placed on record the outline of a new, united Europe. At the end of it, an agreement was signed, under the collaborative eye of prime minister Tony Blair, who was at the time the chairman of what we mean by “Europe”, to create a single currency for the European Union. There was an uneasy continuity between these two moments of creative apotheosis. Both Mr Churchill and Mr Blair, at their different times and from their own vantage points, were spectators rather than actors in a continental drama from which Britain, the island nation, chose to exclude herself.Plots of several kinds run through the saga. The first is certainly blessed. The mythology of the scepter’d isle, the demi-paradise, bit deep into the consciousness of many who addressed the question, beginning with Churchill himself. The sacredness of England, whether or not corrupted into Britain, became a quality setting it, in some minds, for ever apart from Europe. Tampering with this blessed plot was seen for decades as a kind of sacrilege which, even if the sophisticates among the political class could accept it, the people would never tolerate.The island people were not only different but, mercifully, separate, housed behind their moat. They were also inestimably superior, as was shown by history both ancient and modern: by the resonance of the Empire on which the sun never set, but equally by the immediate circumstances out of which the new Europe was born, the war itself. In that war, there had been only one unambiguous victor among European peoples, and she was not to be found on the mainland. The defence of historic uniqueness, against contamination from across the silver sea, was one powerful explanation for the course the British took during these 50 years.But the plot was also tortuous. Little in the story was very straight. The nation’s thinking about itself lurched between different destinies. Hanging on to the past, in the form of the post-imperial Commonwealth, seemed for a time to be the answer. Remaining constant to the Anglo-American relationship, the most powerful bond in the English-speaking world, was apparently another necessity, which would be fatally compromised by the lure of something called the European Community. The idea that these amounted to alternative choices, the one necessarily imperilling the other, afflicted the decision of all leaders from Churchill to Margaret Thatcher, if not beyond.Such convolutions, however, were also personal as much as collective. Every individual story, as well as the national story, had its complexities. On no question of this period did more people in British public life change their minds than on Europe. There were conversions from one side to the other, and sometimes back again, each position often being held with a passion summoned from the realm of faith more than reason, where there are secret uncertainties that only the loudest voice can mask. Many who first opposed British entry later decided they had been wrong. Many others who helped take Britain in became virulent critics of their own handiwork. This made for a serpentine plot on several levels.On top of that, though, the story was also, in many eyes, devious: not just a plot but a conspiracy. The making of Britain into a European country was accomplished, according to a sceptical reading of events, only by deception. The de jure transformation brought about by the British signature on the Treaty of Rome was not, we learned, a true conversion. The full-hearted consent of the people was never obtained, for the simple reason that the true nature of the contract was never put to them. This was subterfuge most foul.Such were the plots that history has to disentangle. Beside them stand two less complicated truths, which help make sense of the historian’s task.The first is that Britain’s resolution of her destiny, while it grew out of many strands quite different from those that influenced the continental states, was dominated by one above all others. For the makers of the original “Europe”, their creation was a triumph. Out of defeat they produced a new kind of victory. For Britain, by contrast, the entry into Europe was a defeat: a fate she had resisted, a necessity reluctantly accepted, the last resort of a once-great power, never for one moment a climactic or triumphant engagement with the construction of Europe. This has been integral in the national psyche, perhaps only half articulated, since 1973. The sense of the Community as a place of British failure – proof of Britain’s failed independence, site of her failed domination – is deep in the undertow of the tides and whirlpools of her history ever since.The second narrative truth is more contentious. Hindsight may be an unrespectable tool, but there are times when its application is inescapable. High political misjudgment is the thread running through this history. This is not an opinion, but a surely incontestable fact. It is proved by the outcome, Britain’s presence inside the European apparatus. Since this is what did finally come to pass, one is entitled to cast a jaundiced eye on the record of those who resisted its happening, believed it would not happen, asserted it did not need to happen, pretended to themselves and the country that alternative destinies would happen instead. These turned out to be misperceptions of the truth. The people who made the error had their reasons, but subsequent events show that, for too long, their attachment to Britain’s cultural and historic differences got the better of their political judgment. Ultimately, Britain did choose the fate her leaders long resisted or failed fully to embrace – but only after a period in which much opportunity was, by sheer lapse of time, wasted.One does not need to carry either of the labels pejoratively invented in this time – Europhile or Europhobe – to accept the force of that. If objectivity can, for once, be brought to a question long drenched in opinionated emotion, it might be commonly agreed. As an exercise in leadership, the extended episode of Britain in and out of the European Community reveals a mismatch between political judgment and eventual, irresistible fact. This is a history of the great question, and of why a nation found it so difficult to answer: and of how the blessed plot became, instead, the graveyard where the reputations of a large political class lie buried. • This is an extract trom This Blessed Plot: Britain and Europe from Churchill to Blair (1998), published by Macmillan