In the four decades since I read Scott O’Dell’s magical book Island of the Blue Dolphins, I’ve been very careful not to read a single word of it again. I’ve bought it for lots of kids, I’ve recommended it far and wide, but I haven’t even opened the cover of that book for fear of breaking the lifelong spell it cast over me. That book, about a strong and resourceful young woman, helped me become one myself. And Scott O’Dell, by writing it so beautifully, helped me understand what I most wanted to accomplish as a writer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lauren Wolk: That book, about a strong and resourceful young woman, helped me become one myself Photograph: PRImagine five 12-year-old girls who do everything together: sleeping in tree houses, hopping the train to Boston for urban safaris, climbing the radio tower on the soccer field to watch the world from on high, and haunting the school library, passing around our favorite books until we’d all read them. And then building those stories into our own lives. I was lucky enough to be one of those girls. And I was blessed to read Island of the Blue Dolphins in their company, all of us forever linked to Karana, the stranded girl who finds a way to survive the elements and her brutal loneliness.CJ Flood: teen girls have a right to roam too When my friend Sarah adopted a dog, she named him Rontu after Karana’s dog. When we roamed the beaches of Cape Cod, we imagined Karana, learning to live off the sea to survive. And when we grew up and went our separate ways, I relied on my memories of those times and that book to keep my friends close, no matter where I was.O’Dell did not just write a compelling story about an extraordinary girl. He spun a world of words where I absolutely belonged. I was there with Karana through all those lonely years. I was there, alongside her, as she learned to rely on herself for everything. She taught me never to underestimate myself. Never to concede anything in the face of challenges. Most of all, she taught me that to be strong and self-reliant is to be in excellent company, even when alone.Stories have the power to create a more hopeful world  It’s hard to say much about O’Dell’s writing from such a great distance, but there really is no distance at all between Karana and me. If I can’t remember the words themselves, I can easily remember how I felt as I read them. And that’s always been my goal as a writer: to make readers feel as if they are in the world I’ve created, and that they want to stay there. I hope the rural setting in my own novel, Wolf Hollow, will draw readers in the way O’Dell’s island setting drew me in. And I hope that Annabelle, the girl in my novel, will inspire other young people to dig deep. To tap their own strength. Be their best selves.The first lines of Puffin classics – in pictures  I suspect Karana and Annabelle would have been good friends despite their many differences. Because of them, too. And I think readers of all ages will be glad to spend time with them. Maybe even decades.Perhaps I should reread Island of the Blue Dolphins now. It won’t be the same, but that’s okay. Karana will surely have different lessons for a grown woman than she did for the girl I was. And so will Scott O’Dell.Lauren Wolk’s book Wolf Hollow is available from the Guardian bookshop, as is Scott O’Dell’s Island of the Blue Dolphins, which has just been reissued by Puffin Classics.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 