MondayTold by the Wind is a dance-theatre piece created by Kaite O’Reilly, Jo Shapland and Phillip Zarrilli and it’s at the Northcott in Exeter tonight. Thom Southerland, who has done such a great job of reviving neglected or less than praised musicals, revives Ragtime at the Charing Cross theatre in London. Medea’s children tell their story in My Mother Medea at the Unicorn, London.TuesdayHow would you treat the workers if you owned a factory? Would you value people or profit? Find out in the interactive World Factory at the Cambridge Junction. The tour of John McGrath’s The Cheviot, the Stag and the Black, Black Oil has its final dates at the Citizens in Glasgow. Josette Bushell Mingo examines her relationship with singer and activist Nina Simone in Nina at the Unity theatre in Liverpool. David Bowie is remembered in From Ibiza to the Norfolk Broads at Waterloo East theatre, London. Ben Duke’s terrific dance theatre piece Paradise Lost (Lies Unopened Beside Me) is at the Nuffield in Lancaster. Sharp Teeth’s modern gothic fairy tale The Fox and the Child begins at the Wardrobe theatre in Bristol.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clare Louise Connolly in The Exorcist at Birmingham Rep.WednesdaySéance is a bite-sized spooky performance from Glen Neath and David Rosenberg which uses binaural technology to question what we believe. It’s programmed alongside the UK premiere of The Exorcist at Birmingham Rep. Birth, a global festival of theatre and debate featuring plays from seven international playwrights, begins at the Royal Exchange in Manchester. Grain in the Blood, at the Tron theatre in Glasgow, is a thriller by Rob Drummond, set at harvest time in a rural community, about what we are prepared to sacrifice for the greater good. Michael Longhurst’s revival of Peter Shaffer’s Amadeus opens at the National Theatre, London. The gap between what we think and what we say is brilliantly examined in Ursula Martinez’s Free Admission at Warwick Arts Centre.ThursdayAl Smith’s Pinteresque Harrogate, first seen at High Tide in late 2015, opens at the Royal Court in London. Living Spit rewrite Frankenstein and perform it with a live four-piece band at Salisbury Playhouse, while in the same venue’s Salberg Studio, Tangled Feet consider parenthood in Kicking and Screaming. Tim Barlow is at the Traverse, Edinburgh, from tonight, reflecting on life at 80 in Him, created from conversations with Sheila Hill. Bonnie Greer rewrites The Cherry Orchard in The Hotel Cerise at the Theatre Royal Stratford East, London. The experiences of refugees are explored in Phone Home at London’s Shoreditch Town Hall, a piece made by theatre companies in the UK, Greece and Germany.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Suppliant Women by Aeschylus, in a new version by David Greig. Photograph: Stephen CummiskeyFriday and the weekendDavid Greig’s new version of the world’s second oldest extant play, Aeschylus’s The Suppliant Women, is at the Grand Opera House in Belfast as part of the Belfast international festival, which also includes Stacey Gregg’s terrific Scorched. The Broadway musical Side Show, about conjoined twins Daisy and Violet Hilton, gets its UK premiere at Southwark Playhouse in London. On Saturday afternoon, Greg Sinclair’s As the Crow Flies, a piece that celebrates different connections, is at the excellent Platform in Easterhouse, Glasgow, which is celebrating its 10th birthday with a strong programme of work. Ruby Dolls’ feminist fairy tale rethink The Brides of Bluebeard is on for one night only on Saturday at the St James Studio in London.