Below is this week’s playlist – the theme and tunes picked by a reader from the comments on last week’s callout. Thanks for your suggestions.  about the format of the weekly Readers recommend series at the end of the piece.What a week it’s been. I have been bowled over by the number of nominations and the depth of RR readers’ knowledge. There are so many excellent songs to choose from that whittling them down was hard, if pleasurable work.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Chris Wheatley RR playlist: hope and resilience on YouTubeStraight into it then with No Love Dying by Gregory Porter. “Hope. Resilience. Compassion. Defiance,” says untergunther. “And what a voice!” I can’t argue with that – this is a wonderful ballad with top-flight musicians and an arrangement that pulls you in. It harks back to jazz’s glory days in the 1950s and 60s, but with a modern twist. Really, though, it is timeless. A great start for this theme.Which brings us to Rosana and Sin Miedo.“Everything sounds better in Spanish,” says deborahwilson, who kindly provides the following translation:  Living without fear, the bad becomes goodThe streets melt into the sky and We become birds flying above them“Just listen and watch and feel happy,” says Deborah. A wonderful reggae-style rhythm and subtle keyboard-work adds up to a whole lot of fun. It’s tropical pop with a Spanish twist.How many songs about toilet gods do you get to hear?” asks Pairubu. Not nearly enough, is the answer. However, for my third choice, I decided to overlook Kana Uemura’s Toire no Kamisama (God of Toilet) in favour of another excellent nomination from the same reader: Leslie Sarony’s Ain’t it Grand to be Bloomin’ Sell Dead. “Perhaps the ultimate ‘every cloud has a silver lining’ song,” says Pairubu. “Though a bit ancient …” As if being ancient is a bad thing. I’m a bit of a sucker for old-time music hall, and this is a new one to me. I’m delighted to make its acquaintance. I hope you will be, too.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Go! Team, who make the list, perform in 2007. Photograph: Rachel Bevis/Rex Features“Songs to combat the prevailing sense of impending doom?” asks misterbadexample. “In that case, what we probably need is the Sheepdogs, who are Feelin’ Good.” Well, I didn’t know that I needed them before, but I do now. There is a real 70s vibe going on here, in a good way. Fuzzed-up guitar, an anthemic chorus and stomping drums. A bit of sleuthing reveals that the Sheepdogs were the first unsigned band to make the cover of Rolling Stone. Utterly deserved, if this song is anything to judge by. Go round ’em up! My choice at No 4.“I’m new to this,” writes NoMoreMrNice, earning a huge pat on the back for making the A-list at the first attempt, with the wonderful suggestion of Beethoven’s Ode to Joy. Something wonderful happens when you hear that famous run of 32 notes. They conjure up a palpable air of delicious expectation, like standing on the edge of a cliff wearing a wingsuit. It is “a triumphant celebration of the human spirit”, says the nominator. Indeed it is, and this particular RR guru will never forget listening to electronic maestro Philip Jeck’s deconstructed version as an opener for Jah Wobble’s magnificent Fly tour. They don’t come much more positive than this. Five down almost too soon.Ah, Marconius, how can I ever repay you for introducing me to Three Suns’ version of Michael Nesmith’s Beyond the Blue Horizon? A leg maybe? An arm? If you ever need a new kidney, I’m your man. “I love the enthusiasm ...” says Marconius. “Especially the solo at 1:33.” Guitar-piano-accordion trios are hard to come by, and this one offers about as cheesy a slice of light-hearted pop as you can get – scoring very highly in my book. Ideally, while listening to this, you should be sat in a 1940s cinema, waiting for the attendant to come round with ice creams. No 6 with a smile.Ravi Raman provided some great nominations, none better than Louis Armstrong’s On the Sunny Side of the Street. There is no need to justify its inclusion – the music speaks for itself, but let’s have crack at it anyway. Armstrong elevated traditional jazz to a new level with his Hot Five and Hot Seven sessions, but he never lost that New Orleans feel. Even when he isn’t singing, you can sense him smiling. A wonderful walking bassline, magnificent interplay of brass, softly swinging drums … and that trumpet. Glorious.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nelson Mandela, right, with South African singer Johnny Clegg during a concert in Frankfurt in 1999. Photograph: Oliver Berg/EPASo we come to No 8: Johnny Clegg and Savuka – Asimbonanga (Mandela) – an excellent nomination from RR’s wonderwife, who says: “If it’s resilience and hope you’re talking about, this is the greatest song ever written.” I picked up a couple of Johnny Clegg albums a while back and they are a delight. Clegg is a white South African, and his mixed-race bands in the 1970s and 80s tested the country’s apartheid laws to breaking point. This protest song, dedicated to Nelson Mandela, perfectly sums up this week’s theme.At No 9 I choose the Go! Team with We Just Won’t Be Defeated, nominated by SweetHomeAlabama. They are another great band who combine old and new to come up with something entirely different. Is it Motown? Seventies funk? Nineties hip-hop? It’s all that and more, with a big smile on its rocket-fuelled face.What more fitting song could there be to end with than the Traveling Wilburys’ End of the Line. “The most positive song I know,” says nominator PatLux. “I hope the people who attend my funeral will enjoy it.” Let’s hope that’s a long time off, PatLux. Supergroups don’t always succeed, but this one – with Roy Orbison, George Harrison, Bob Dylan, Jeff Lynne and Tom Petty – certainly did. With so much talent in one place I’m surprised they didn’t rupture the space-time continuum. Or maybe they did, and that explains the whole of 2016. By the end of the first four bars, you’re hooked. Listen to that beautiful train-track rhythm, sliding guitar and infectious bassline. It is three-and-a-half minutes of musical heaven.All that remains is to say a big thank you to every one of you for your fantastic nominations and kind comments. It’s been a blast!New themeThe theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on 8 September. You have until 11pm on 12 September to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.