Ireland’s fiction laureate Anne Enright has hailed “flourishing” independent bookshops after her novel The Green Road won a prize voted for by booksellers.The Green Road by Anne Enright review – an exquisite collage of Irish lives Enright’s story of four children returning to the childhood home their mother is about to sell, which missed out on the Baileys women’s fiction prize last week, has been named winner of the Independent Bookshop Week award, ahead of titles including Kate Atkinson’s A God in Ruins and Bill Bryson’s The Road to Little Dribbling. The award’s shortlist is voted for by independent booksellers, with a panel of judges featuring author Emma Healey, White Rose bookshop’s Sue Lake and the Guardian’s Claire Armitstead picking the winner.Enright, winner of the 2007 Man Booker prize for The Gathering, said it was “such an honour to be selected for this award by my favourite people – booksellers”.“Long may they remain,” added Enright. “Four or five years ago, we were all in a panic that the internet would eat booksellers and paper. But they’ve battled on and they’re starting to flourish.”Her win, which comes alongside Philip Reeve and Sarah McIntyre’s triumph in the children’s category for Pugs of the Frozen North, and Stanley the Amazing Knitting Cat by Emily MacKenzie’s selection as best picture book, marks the start of Independent Bookshop Week, a seven-day celebration of independent retailers that will see hundreds of events taking place across the UK and Ireland.Carol Ann Duffy introduces poems for our love of bookshops This year, 370 booksellers are taking part and dozens of authors are joining the festivities to support them. Events include a Cornwall-to-Scotland tour by the poets Carol Ann Duffy, Jackie Kay, Imtiaz Dharker and Gillian Clarke, and a specially commissioned essay for indies, The Gifts of Reading by Robert Macfarlane. The week will also see The Green Road entered into a “best of the best” competition, which will pit previous winners of the award – from Hilary Mantel’s Wolf Hall to Sarah Waters’ The Paying Guests – against each other in a public vote.Bestselling crime novelist Ian Rankin will be speaking at the Steyning bookshop on 18 June, after the store won a competition to entice the writer to their premises. “They’ve won me,” said Rankin. “They said I would love to visit because they have a local brewery, so they’re taking me for a trip there.”Ian Rankin: ‘Solitude, coffee, music: 27 days later I have a first draft’ Rankin, who had bought a copy of Bleak House from his local independent – the Edinburgh bookshop – earlier this week, said these retailers were “a part of the community”.“Independent booksellers have to work that bit harder – they can’t always offer discounts on books and they don’t always have room for a coffee shop,” he said. “But what you get from them is really great personal service, and a rapport … Your local high street is an absolutely vital part of the community, and independent booksellers are part of that.”“I think it’s lovely they’re back in the limelight,” agreed the author Veronica Henry, about to embark on a tour of independents in the UK for her new novel How to Find Love in a Bookshop.Official figures for UK independents show that numbers fell to 894 in 2015, down 3% on the previous year. But Meryl Halls at the Booksellers Association echoed the authors’ positivity, saying the mood had been “cautiously optimistic” in the sector for the last two years, and that shops “are starting to feel properly confident now”.“It’s been torrid,” she said. “But the resurgence of print, and the beautiful books thing [people’s desire to own attractive physical books], are definitely playing to indies’ strengths. They’ve been through a bruising time but the businesses which have survived that know what they’re doing and are running successful businesses in their communities. Of course it’s still tough and there are still people struggling, but if you’re in the right location, you’re doing well.”'People are hungry for real bookstores': Judy Blume on why US indie booksellers are thriving Halls pointed to figures from the US, which show that American bookshop numbers have grown for the seventh year in a row, with indie sales up just over 10% in 2015. “We’re down to just under 900 independent members, which still makes me sad,” she said. “But in the US they have started to increase in numbers, and we will hopefully follow along in the next year or two.”