Thanksgiving has just passed and, as most Americans will tell you, it is our favourite holiday. It is also the least commercial, with no gifts exchanged. Rather, it’s all about the meal. Thanksgiving is the thing I miss most about home, so I always recreate it here with expat friends, curious locals and my family. We shop for weeks, cook for days and lie around all night to digest. Leftovers are reimagined as turkey and stuffing sandwiches with cranberry sauce, while cold mashed potatoes are pressed into patties and sauteed in brown butter.The kitchen counter and table are an ever-evolving still life. There is a cross‑section of a blue pumpkin and the few stray potatoes that didn’t end up in the pot. A branch of bay leaves and a sprig of rosemary nestle in with unpeeled chestnuts, walnuts in their shells and the stalk from the brussels sprouts. There is a carton of eggs and various bottles of wine that were opened and left unfinished.And then there are the fruits: pomegranates split apart and clementines with their stalks intact, but their leaves fallen. As the weekend rolls on, these ingredients are turned into another meal and another reason to gather around the table. They will be lighter, less filling meals, but still end on a sweet note.Pomegranate granita is simple and refreshing, using just the juice of pomegranates and a clementine, plus a little sugar. I like to chop the ice the way I learned from the Zuni Café cookbook. The prosecco gelee is slightly retro, but very chic. You could also serve them together. I look forward to these creative leftover meals as much as the big meal itself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simple and refreshing … Claire Ptak’s pomegranate granita. Photograph: Kristin Perers for the GuardianPomegranate granitaServes 4-62-3 large pomegranatesJuice of 1 clementine, strained50g caster sugarA pinch of fine salt300g whipped cream, for serving1 Put a shallow pie dish, deep roasting tray or storage plastic container in the freezer to chill.2 Juice the pomegranates as you would an orange; this can be messy, so wear an apron. Strain the juice and measure. You are looking for about 250ml.3 Add all the other ingredients except the whipped cream and stir well to dissolve. Pour the mixture into the container and put in the freezer for 2 hours.4 Remove the container from the freezer and, using either a metal bench (dough) scraper or a strong fork, chop or scrape the block of ice. There will still be a soft centre and this will blend together with the frozen bits from the edges. Return to the freezer for about an hour. Once it is nearly set – not frozen solid – chop the granita again.5 Serve in chilled glasses with a dollop of whipped cream.Prosecco gelee with pomegranates (main picture)Serves 6500g prosecco100g caster sugar1 sachet of gelatineSeeds from 1 pomegranate1 Wash, dry and polish 6 small tumblers or wine glasses. Sprinkle a few pomegranate seeds into the bottom of each and set aside.2 Warm half the prosecco and all the sugar in a saucepan over a medium heat until the sugar has dissolved. Let it cool completely.3 Stir the gelatine into the remaining prosecco, then whisk everything together. Pour into glasses and chill for at least 2 hours. Finish with more seeds and serve.Claire Ptak is a pastry chef, author and food stylist and owns Violet Bakery in London. She is the author of the Violet Bakery Cookbook (Square Peg); @violetcakeslondon