1 | Frankie LymonDebut single 1956 (with the Teenagers)The first teen-band phenomenon were New York’s the Teenagers, formed by five young gospel singers who fell for the spryness of doo-wop. Fame came thanks to one of their own compositions, Why Do Fools Fall in Love? (1956), led by the 12-year-old Frankie Lymon, whose voice rang from the vinyl like a bright bell. A seemingly lucrative move to a solo career coincided with his voice breaking, and success quickly waned, though the song that made his name was later covered by the Beach Boys, Frankie Valli and Diana Ross. He died aged 25 of a heroin overdose.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mary Weiss, centre, with the sisters Margie, left, and Mary Anne Ganser of the Shangri-Las. Photograph: Ron Case/Getty Images2 | Mary WeissDebut 1964 (with the Shangri-Las)The greatest girl group of them all pulled no punches, with songs about heartbreak (Remember (Walking in the Sand)), a mother dying of heartbreak after her daughter runs away (I Can Never Go Home Any More), death by motorcycle (Leader of the Pack) and sexual assault (Past, Present and Future). Weiss, 15 when the band had their first glorious hits, sang up front, her voice brazen at points and bruisingly tender at others; the spoken sections of those songs also felt touchingly real. By 1967, the Shangri-Las had split up, and were pursuing more normal careers. Weiss first became a secretary and then got into furniture design.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stevie Wonder, with harmonica, in 1964. Photograph: Gilles Petard/Redferns3 | Stevie WonderDebut 1962 (as Little Stevie Wonder)Signed to Motown at 11, Stevie Wonder’s early career flourished around his harmonica-playing. His first big hit, Fingertips, relied on his dexterity with the instrument. Further success didn’t come, despite the sweetness of Wonder’s young voice, and by 15, it was becoming an older, deeper instrument, prompting Motown boss Berry Gordy to consider dropping him. Then Wonder did a session with label writers Henry Cosby and Sylvia Moy, got his first co-write, and Up-Tight (Everything’s Alright) lit the touchpaper for his peerless career.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alex Chilton in New York in 1968. Photograph: Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images4 | Alex ChiltonDebut 1967 (with the Box Tops)The Letter is a sultry 60s classic about someone wanting to get back to their baby, sung by a man who sounds weighed down by the world. That man was 16. Later to become the cult frontman of American power poppers Big Star, Alex Chilton’s young voice is all sandpaper and hardship as he demands a ticket for an aeroplane (“ain’t got time to take a fast train”), the anger at its edges stressing its longing. That voice helped this single become a US No 1, and at the time it was the shortest ever, clocking in at one minute 58 seconds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Jackson of the Jackson 5 in 1972. Photograph: Michael Putland/Getty Images5 | Michael JacksonDebut 1968 (with the Jackson 5)There’s blurry black-and-white footage online of the Jackson 5’s Motown audition from 1968, and at the front of the room is a 10-year-old boy. The way he moves is recognisable – his slides are the early makings of the moonwalk – and then he moves his head, and lets out that bright, urgent voice. Songs such as I Want You Back and ABC may be as familiar as nursery rhymes in modern pop culture, but its not hard to feel awe listening to the power of the young Michael’s performances. He would strive for that falsetto for the rest of his life.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anabella Lwin of Bow Wow Wow in c1980. Photograph: Hulton-Deutsch Collection/CORBIS6 | Annabella LwinDebut 1980 (with Bow Wow Wow)She wasn’t, it seems, discovered in a launderette, as Malcolm McLaren claimed, but Bow Wow Wow’s frontwoman stood out nevertheless. Shaven-headed and British-Burmese, Lwin had an offhand, wry vocal style that suited her new-wave band’s punchy songs, such as C30, C60, C90 Go!, a paean to cassette piracy culture and the group’s first top 40 hit when she was still 13. Two years later, their cover of the Strangeloves’ 1965 I Want Candy became their biggest hit, playing provocatively to Lwin’s youth, as did the cover art to the album – a homage to a Manet painting in which Lwin poses naked, her stare unsettling and challenging.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gaz Coombes of Supergrass at T in the Park, Glasgow, in 1995. Photograph: Rex/Shutterstock7 | Gaz CoombesDebut 1992 (with the Jennifers)When they burst into pop culture in 1994, Supergrass felt like the invention of a glorious cartoonist, all limbs, grins and hair – and what hair, despite their youth. Their songs were great, too. Coombes was only 16 when he wrote Caught By the Fuzz, a real-life tale of being found with cannabis by the police, and later had a No 2 hit with an ode to youth’s ebullience, Alright (“We are young, we run free, keep our teeth nice and clean”). Before Supergrass, Coombes and drummer Danny Goffey were in the short-lived Jennifers, formed at Wheatley Park school in Oxfordshire.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robyn at the Billboard awards in 1997. Photograph: Sipa Press/Rex/Shutterstock8 | RobynDebut 1995Before Robyn was the ice-cool pop Swede singing melancholic pop epics such as With Every Heartbeat, she was a big-label teen star. Recorded when she was 16, the slouchy, funky pop of Show Me Love (not to be confused with the Robyn S garage classic) gave her a huge top 10 hit in the UK and US. It also gave her co-writer Max Martin his first success in America, before Britney Spears’s …Baby One More Time rocket-launched his career. Even in those early years, Robyn’s voice is knowing and sharp; setting up her own label in the 2000s, Konichiwa, would see her develop her style further.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Willow Smith in 2011. Photograph: REX/Shutterstock9 | Willow SmithDebut 2010Getting connected in the music industry is probably easier if your dad’s the Fresh Prince, but Willow Smith’s debut single was still a standout. Released in the US four days before her 10th birthday, Whip My Hair had an undeniable, I-know-better-than-my-parents cocky charm, especially in the verse where she sings: “Hop up out the bed/Turn my swag on/Pay no attention to them haters/Because we whip ’em off”. Now 15, she released her debut album in December, Ardipithecus, writing all 14 tracks, producing 10 of them herself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lorde in 2013. Photograph: NBC/NBCU Photo Bank via Getty Images10 | LordeDebut 2012Lorde doesn’t like her age used against her, and rightly so: many of us older folks remember how fearless we felt as teenagers. Intelligent female pop teens aren’t a new thing in pop terms, either: it’s easy to forget how young Kate Bush was (18) when she wuthered her heights. But when Pure Heroine came out in 2013, 16-year-old Lorde analysed teen culture with laser eyes, and her deep, brazen voice took no prisoners. Now 19 and having sung Life on Mars for the Bowie tribute at last month’s Brit awards, she showed how youth can still convey absolute authority.