Maybe it’s Disney’s fault. Eight months prior to the debut of Star Wars: The Force Awakens we had at least witnessed a startling teaser trailer for JJ Abrams’ movie. But there has been little to no verifiable information about forthcoming sequel The Last Jedi, bar that tantalising title. Into this void have crept dark things (and YouTube vloggers) peddling rumours, conspiracy theories and downright lies. Moreover, where many of these tall tales would have once languished on the text-heavy pages of Reddit, they are now being reported verbatim on the websites of traditional newspapers. It turns out fake news is just as prevalent in a galaxy far, far away as it is in the real world.Star Wars: The Last Jedi - Luke's first words revealed to Disney shareholders Like Darth Vader preparing to unleash a Force choke on a garrulous Imperial officer, we view such frivolities with icy scorn. Nevertheless, we couldn’t resist picking out a few of the more far-fetched recent fan theories and rating them for sheer nuttiness. So buckle up your X-wing seatbelt, check the mirrors for any stray Mynocks chewing on the power cables, and prepare for the jump to silly space.Rey is Luke Skywalker’s clone daughter      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hair-raising … Mark Hamill in Star Wars: Episode VIII (2017). Photograph: LucasfilmThis one comes courtesy of renowned Star Wars conspiracy theorist Mike Zeroh, who this week has mostly been watching bloodthirsty new X-Men outing Logan and wondering what might happen if Lucasfilm borrowed its plot. The idea here is that Daisy Ridley’s Rey simply must be connected in some way to Luke Skywalker, but cannot be his natural daughter because Leia would have recognised the proto-Jedi when they met on Takodana in The Force Awakens. The confused look on Luke’s face at the end of Abrams’ movie also makes more sense if Rey is a clone, somebody he perhaps recognises as a literal kindred spirit via his Force powers, yet does not fully recognise.Plausibility: 3/10. Cloning is already firmly established in the Star Wars canon: the stormtroopers began in the prequels as members of the Galactic Republic’s clone army. But Rey looks a lot more like Carrie Fisher’s Leia (or her mother, Padmé Amidala) than Luke. Surely a female clone of Luke would have blond hair? If this one pans out, The Force Awakens’ casting director deserves to be fed to the Rancor.Rey and Kylo Ren are on course to swap sides of the ForceThis Reddit theory plays on The Force Awakens’ penchant for echoing themes from the original trilogy and prequels, in this instance Anakin Skywalker’s slow drift to the dark side and final redemption. Wouldn’t it be cool if Adam Driver’s Darth Vader wannabe followed the same path from evil to saviour of the galaxy as his evil death cyborg granddaddy, while Ridley’s pugnacious scavenger went the other way? Such thinking plays on Rey’s strange, sudden development of Jedi-like powers – a huge canonical shift from previous instalments, which have always shown Force sensitivity manifesting from birth (Anakin) or developing slowly over time (Luke). As for Ren, it’s being suggested he’ll be turned back to the light by the Force Ghost of Hayden Christensen, presumably warning his successor about the dangers to one’s eternal soul of making really, really poor career choices.Could The Last Jedi's title bode well for Star Wars' spirit of invention? Plausibility: 5/10. It’s not so dumb as the “Rey is Luke’s reincarnated space mother” theory from last year, but the idea that the current holders of the Star Wars flame will look to recycle every narrative arc from the original films seems far-fetched. Most observers expect Rian Johnson’s The Last Jedi to begin entering braver territory after the comforting nostalgia of The Force Awakens. Supreme Leader Snoke is the last Jedi      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wow, some lightsabre, Kylo Ren. Photograph: Allstar/Disney/LucasfilmSnoke has been the centre of some of the best nutty theories, presumably because we know so little about the First Order’s manipulator-in-chief. Last year’s Mace Windu is Snoke theory really took the biscuit, but a newer concept pitches the idea that Rogue One’s expansion of the religious architecture surrounding the Jedi is preparing us for a deeper look into the origins of the po-faced space cult. If that’s true, then the titular character might not be Luke at all, but somebody older. Who is more ancient in the current Star Wars timeline than Snoke, who certainly looks pretty wrinkly and presumably gave Kylo Ren the crossguard lightsaber that Disneyland’s Season of the Force exhibition has revealed is based on an ancient design?Plausibility: 2/10. There are more iffy logic leaps here than Jabba the Hutt has had still-breathing snacks. And how can Snoke be the last Jedi if Luke Skywalker – described pretty clearly in The Force Awakens’ opening crawl as … well, “the last Jedi” – remains alive? The Knights of Ren are Luke’s lost PadawansWhat if some of Skywalker’s trainee Jedi survived the assault on his training camp, seen briefly in flashback during Rey’s vision at Maz Kanata’s castle in The Force Awakens? Might a Snoke-inspired Ren have led them in revolt against Luke before taking his position as their leader? If so, the elder Jedi’s failure looks even more complete than previously thought, perhaps explaining his exile and haunted features in the movie’s final scene.Plausibility: 4/10. This theory certainly sounds more sensible than the pre-Rogue One myth that the knights were Jyn Erso’s companions, which has since been roundly debunked by the events of the Star Wars spin-off. But the Knights of Ren clearly appear in the Force Back, so how can they be both killers and slain? It’s just possible the knights might have been older members of Luke’s school murdering their younger fellow students. But why would Abrams have set out to deliberately obfuscate the truth about Rey’s youthful tragedy?Rey hatched from an egg       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   She’s no chicken … Rey considers her options. Photograph: Allstar/Disney/LucasfilmIf you think some of these theories are far-fetched, try reading some of Marvel’s more far-out Star Wars comics. The publisher’s Poe Dameron title features a reclusive culture known as the Creche, who worship a giant blue glowing egg that they believe will one day crack to reveal the (presumably fully-formed) saviour of the galaxy. Who might that be? Well there’s only one Star Wars character currently being set up as Luke Skywalker’s heroic heir, and that’s Daisy Ridley’s Rey. What if that egg had already burst open, discovering the Jakku lowlife as its powerful, Force-sensitive occupant?Plausibility: 1/10. This one seems to have been spun off yet another unconfirmed theory, the deeply silly one about Rey being a reincarnation of Anakin Skywalker. As we all know, Luke’s not-so-dear old dad was spawned by the Force himself, Jesus style, rather than having a traditional human pops. But we think Shmi Skywalker would have mentioned it in The Phantom Menace had her son emerged – Monkey Magic style – from a giant egg.