That compulsory investment, so well known to the British, a long wet winter pays its ocular dividend in May; if the skies had not been so grey the fields would not be so green. The floods were fertilisers, and where there lingered for weeks the dismal ooze of the swollen river there is now an added foison of green and gold, of grass and buttercups, richness and lushness, and Nature’s ungovernable bounty.When Wordsworth’s Idiot Boy announced of grass that “you almost hear it growing” he was giving an accurate description of May in some soft corner of England. For fierceness of growth and thrusting plant we are accustomed to think of jungles far away; but the kind of native field which is squelchy in a dry winter or flooded in a wet one offers at this season an extraordinary example of lustihood in growth as well as of liveliness in colour.The weeds seem to be like some clamorous, gesticulating mob which rises and waves arms to heaven in a film or a play. Under the ground the stir of life seems audible, above it palpable. The vegetable kingdom acquires animal qualities; now grass, like cattle, can stampede. The land is murmurous, not only with the voices of its beasts and birds and insects but with the utterance of its own striving to richness; the loam has lyrical longings and even the heaviest clay “shows willing” to be musical.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   South Downs National Park near Wilmington, East Sussex. Photograph: Slawek Staszczuk/Alamy[Edgar] Fawcett, an American poet who wrote the kind of moral jingle especially dear to those arranging a Victorian educational curriculum, once observed:  We say of the oak “How grand of girth!”Of the willow we say “How slender!”And yet to the soft grass clothing the earthHow slight is the praise we render.It is not a brilliant quatrain; but it makes a point. Furthermore, it is a point which would more naturally come from an Englishman than an American. For excellence of grass is more of a luxury than the latter; to us it is common form. A country enduring such extremes of heat and cold as the United States must evolve a tougher kind of grass than is natural to our more temperate climate.Surely one of the first things that strikes an English traveller in New York is the poverty of growth in Central Park, on the bluffs beside the Hudson, and at Battery Point. After the lushness of our parks and commons any of these open spaces of New York causes one to feel that a lawn is a luxury indeed.Perhaps it is northern ancestry which brings to me year after year, should I travel across lowland England in early summer, a perpetual, invincible surprise. To those who come from upland, stone-wall counties, trimly, thriftily farmed, this wild profusion of hedge and tangle, as well as the “greenery-yallery” opulence of the flowery meadows in our profligate May, must always be something foreign, strange, and even frightening.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wild flower meadows in Swaledale, Yorkshire Dales National Park. Photograph: AlamyThomas Hardy could drive as surely into the flesh of this soft South England as he did into the bones of its ridges and bleak wastes. The Valley of Great Dairies, where his Tess was a milkmaid, lingers in the mind, teeming with growth under the “hot, steaming rains,” its air an opiate.There is an intense cultivation now of grass-lore, and whether you want your grass to be smooth for the golfer and cricketer or rich for the chewer of cud you may get expert advice from the laboratory about fertilisers and improvers of your particular soil. No doubt it helps; but they seemed to do pretty well with seed and soil and climate unaided when they laid out the lawns of English country houses and let grass in the paddocks grow as it chose. Whitman was fanciful about grass: I guess it must be the flag of my disposition, out of hopeful green stuff woven.Or I guess it is the handkerchief of the Lord,A scented gift and remembrancer designedly dropt…And now it seems to me the beautiful uncut hair of graves.Need we be so ingenious about so simple a matter? Need we cultivate sepulchral notions? We know what the Turf means to an Englishman when the “T” is capital. It is better surely not to be so fussy about this vital and ubiquitous blessing.This is an edited extract, read the full article