Disney’s Zootopia is on course to be 2016’s biggest animated movie after smashing Frozen’s opening record at the US box office.Zootopia review – Disney's furry fable gets its claws out for the bigots The tale of a city populated by talking animals scored $73.7m (£52.1m) on its debut weekend to knock the R-rated superhero smash Deadpool off the top spot. Buoyed by almost universally positive reviews, the animation has also been praised for its feminist credentials: the lead character, voiced by Ginnifer Goodwin, is an ambitious female rabbit who becomes the first of her species to graduate from the police academy, only to be sidelined with traffic duty by her prejudiced male superiors.The last Disney Animation Studios film to get near Zootopia’s opening was Frozen, which debuted with $67.3m in December 2013 and went on to make $1.28bn at the global box office. However, the icy fantasy was up against another high-profile debutant that weekend: the Hunger Games instalment Catching Fire.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deadpool – video reviewZootopia, which will be titled Zootropolis when it debuts in the UK on 25 March, has also performed well outside the US, and boasts $232.5m globally from its opening weekend. It did particularly well in China, pulling in $63.4m in receipts at the world’s second-largest box office.Two other new movies gatecrashed the North American top five, despite turning in disappointing receipts. The action thriller sequel London Has Fallen, which has suffered from debilitating reviews, landed in second place with $21.7m on debut. The Tina Fey comedy drama Whiskey Tango Foxtrot made fourth with $7.6m. London Has Fallen review: Gerard Butler bromance brews as Big Ben blows London Has Fallen, by director Babak Najafi, is a sequel to the box-office sleeper smash Olympus Has Fallen, about a terrorism attack on the White House. This time around, US Secret Service agent Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) is assigned to protect the US president on a visit to the UK capital, where a terrorist mastermind is planning a massive attack.“In the film Olympus Has Fallen, Butler gained personal redemption by saving the president’s toned ass when terrorists stormed the White House,” wrote the Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw. “Now they’re in London for a state occasion and it all kicks off again, with dozens of tourist landmarks shattered by evil-doers from a country Butler robustly calls ‘Fuckheadistan’ – and they’re using surprisingly cheap-looking digital effects.”Whiskey Tango Foxtrot review – Tina Fey sees the funny side of war reporting Whiskey Tango Foxtrot stars Fey as war correspondent Kim Baker, who travels to Afghanistan for a cable news channel and develops a relationship with Martin Freeman’s Scottish war photographer. Adapted from Kim Barker’s memoir The Taliban Shuffle: Strange Days in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Glenn Ficarra and John Requa’s film also stars Billy Bob Thornton, Alfred Molina and Margot Robbie. “It’s a relief to finally see [Fey] in a role that utilises her smarts, her comic timing and the fundamental goodness that exudes from her persona,” wrote the Guardian’s Jordan Hoffman. The top five was rounded out by Deadpool, slipping to third with $16.4m in its fourth week, for a total of $311.2m, and fantasy turkey Gods of Egypt, which dropped to fifth with $5m in its second week, for a total of $22.8m. There were no other new films in the US top 10 this week.