One of the great perks of my job - writing about maths – is that I am always learning new maths. And I learned more in my latest book than probably in any other project I have been involved in.This statement might sound odd, since Visions of Numberland is a colouring book. Yet the aim that my co-author Edmund Harriss and I shared was more than just to serve up pretty pictures. It was to curate a gallery of beautiful images that would introduce readers to deep mathematical ideas. It meant that we delved through dozens of fields to find images that were both stunning to look at, and interesting to think about. The concepts that inspired the images come from number theory, topology, projective geometry, four-dimensional geometry, statistical physics, combinatorics, fractals, computer science, calculus, group theory, modular forms, complex arithmetic, Lie groups, tessellations, dynamical systems and many more mathematical fields.Your heart may be sinking – these include areas you would only ever discover at degree level or beyond. Yet we believe that, for each image, it is possible to engage with the concepts behind it. (We have accompanying text that explains the image in layman’s terms). The book is for anyone who is intrigued by maths, not just those who enjoy colouring in. So here goes: four images from the book, with explanations.The Collatz conjecture      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration by Emund Harriss/Visions of Numberland. Coloured in by Tiffany Arment.Take any number. If it is even: half it. If it is odd: triple it, add one, and then half it. Repeat until you get to 1. So, if we start with 13, which is odd, we triple, add one and halve, to get 20, which is even, so we halve, and the sequence continues 10, 5, 8, 4, 2, 1. The Collatz conjecture states that whatever number you start with you will always reach 1 eventually. The conjecture is one of the most famous unsolved problems in maths because it is very easy to state, but a proof still seems a long way off. No on has yet found a number that doesn’t reach 1, but that’s not a proof that none exist!So how did this piece of maths produce the image above? First Edmund built a tree of all the numbers following their paths to 2 (which then goes to 1), as illustrated below. Then, in order to express visually whether a number is even (being halved), or odd (being tripled, one added, and halved) he introduced a rule. Starting at 2, if the next number up is even, the branch bends clockwise, and if the next number is odd the branch moves anticlockwise. Then he got rid of the numbers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Here is the image that contains all numbers below 10,000. It looks like a mesh of seaweed! The picture beautifully illustrates how such a basic piece of arithmetic leads to a stunning complexity.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Collatz Conjecture Illustration: Edmund Harriss/Visions of NumberlandHairy ball theorem  Hirsute sphere Illustration: Edmund Harriss/Visions of NumberlandThe hairy ball theorem states that it is impossible to comb a hairy sphere flat without there being at least one tuft sticking up. A consequence of this theorem is that there is always one point on the Earth’s surface where there is no wind. The result is a fundamental theorem of topology, the science of mathematical stretching, bending and squeezing. If you stretch, bend or squeeze a hairy ball into a new shape, this new shape will also be impossible to comb flat.Newton’s cubic      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Edmund Harriss/Visions of NumberlandIn 1666 Isaac Newton was holed up in his mother’s farmhouse, avoiding the plague that was ravaging the cities, and working on what he called his ‘method of fluxions’, a way to calculate the slope of curves. In one document called the Tract of 1666 he investigated properties of the curve x3 – abx + a3 – cy2 = 0, where a, b and c are constants. The equation is known as a cubic because the largest power of x is a cube. The image above is the curve of this equation when a = 1, c = 4 and b ranges from –8 to 8. The method of fluxions later became known as ‘differentiation’, one of the basic ideas of calculus.Arctic Circle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Edmund Harriss/Visions of NumberlandThis image models the abrupt change – or phase transition - between solid and liquid, when, for example, ice melts. Here, a big hexagon is tiled with identical small rhombus-shaped tiles (as illustrated in the close-up below). Each tile can point in only one of three possible orientations.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest There are a vast number of possible tile arrangements that will tile the hexagon, but almost all of them have large sections of tiles ‘frozen’ together in the same orientation near the edges, hence the name ‘arctic circle’. In other words, the hexagonal shape forces the structure in the corners, but not the centre, giving an abrupt transition between order and chaos. This phenomenon can be seen clearly in the initial image above, where adjacent tiles in the same orientation are joined together. I hope these images give some of the flavour of the book: we hope it gives some insight into the world of mathematics, as well as providing enjoyable material for those who like to colour in.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Visions of Numberland is just out in the UK. In the US it is called Visions of the Universe.