In five wordsHazelnut chocolate; post-industrial innovationSound of the city?Church bells ring every day at 6pm across the city. In one of Italy’s largest urban centres, neighbourhoods are still organised as little communities around Catholic churches, and bells mark the passage of time by rhythmically announcing the end of the day. This sound represents the tension between Turin’s conservative heritage and the push towards modernisation that the city has experienced in recent years. Best buildingOccupy Turin: refugees find a home in Italy's abandoned Olympic Village The Palavela, an arena named after its surprisingly graceful vault made of reinforced concrete, is my personal favourite. Ugly, industrial and grey when it was first built at the end of the 1950s for the 100th anniversary of Italy’s unification (it even made a brief appearance in The Italian Job a few years later), it was redesigned in 2003 by architect Gae Aulenti to host figure skating at the 2006 Winter Olympics. The building is located on the left bank of the river Po and it’s one of those rare examples of Olympic infrastructure still in use a decade after the Games. Favourite venue of the momentTurin is a place where student movements, creative professionals and progressive ideals often come together to shape lively community hubs, and the Cavallerizza Reale in the city centre is the latest example of this trend. Originally the Royal Stables in the 17th century, it became a Unesco World Heritage Site in 1997 as part of the Residences of the House of Savoy. When the local administration attempted to privatise the building complex in 2014, a spontaneous assembly of citizens occupied it. Since then, they have been keeping the area publicly accessible and culturally alive by organising a growing range of events and workshops: from meditation, creative writing and drama classes to DJ sets, food nights, guided tours, folk gigs and meetings to discuss the creation of new queer spaces.Homegrown talent   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One band in particular has been shaping the local musical landscape since the mid-90s: Subsonica. They have produced the sound that has accompanied the transformation of a city known in the past exclusively for car factories, grey buildings and polluted skies, into a lively and stimulating urban centre. Gone are the days when you could catch their unique brand of “made in Turin” electronic rock in the clubs along the river, now defunct to accommodate gentrification. Although Subsonica have moved on to play clubs and arenas across Italy and beyond, their close interaction with the city hasn’t changed. Many of the local emerging indie acts, for example, enjoy the supervision of Max Casacci, the band’s founder, guitarist and one of Italy’s most eclectic producers.The look on the streetTorino is often compared to Paris for its cold temperatures and architectural aesthetics. Street outfits tend to mirror this trend.Most underrated locationParco San Vito is a small park on the hills in southern Turin with the best view of the mountains. It has green meadows, a row of wooden benches and is great for Sunday picnics. Not so many people go there because it’s hard to find and is a 30-minute uphill walk uphill from the city centre. Over 600 metres above sea level, it’s a good place to escape urban pollution and spend time in a public space that feels like countryside.Best Instagram accountThe city of Turin’s Instagram account regularly reposts fragments of urban landscapes, photographed by residents. The municipality has also actively engaged citizens by allowing them to briefly become official photographers for the profile, so the resulting collection is varied, authentic and offers subjective insights into the different ways in which locals experience their city.Biggest controversyIn January, two cyclists were run over and killed by cars in two days, which brought the conversation on how to make the city more bike-friendly back to the headlines. Turin has an active association called Bike Pride that has been pushing for consistent investments in sustainable forms of transport, to move away from an idea of city as a place consumed by cars. Following the two accidents, they launched an online campaign and organised a demonstration to urgently demand the creation of safe spaces for cyclists and pedestrians alike. The municipality has finally confirmed the allocation of €8m (£6.1m) to improve the bike sharing system, extend cycle paths and establish areas where cars are required to travel at a maximum speed of 30km/h, but tensions remain high.Moment in history   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The 2006 Winter Olympic Games changed Turin drastically. They played a decisive part in the revitalisation of the city’s industrial face. I still remember the feeling of anticipation my high school friends and I shared when we started seeing crowds of international tourists in the centre of Turin, surprised at all the different languages and the sudden interest in our city. At the time, we were still very much a gap in Italy’s tourist maps.Buildings had been cleaned and elegantly lit up, schools had been shut for the duration of the Games to increase citizen participation. The city acquired its first ever metro line. There were weekly Notti Bianche (official nights of celebration) with restaurants, museums, cinemas, artisanal hot chocolate stalls and shops open until the early hours, and gigs with global artists echoing in the main squares. Cars could barely circulate, overwhelmed by the hundreds of thousands of people walking in the streets. That’s when we started proudly discovering beauty in our city for the first time, too. Best local artistMario Merz died in 2003, but the impact of his work on the city is still visible today. His installations are known for their characteristic neon lights that add vibrancy to ordinary materials, often indigenous to the place. His igloo fountain on a large traffic island in Corso Mediterraneo, for example, is a structure of metal and stone integrated with neon lights that indicate cardinal directions and are reflected on a water surface. Another well known installation is the Fibonacci sequence drawn vertically in red neon lights on Turin’s iconic tower, the Mole Antonelliana.After the artist’s death, the Fondazione Merz was established to preserve his legacy and support emerging talent. Merz’s close interaction with the city has been a catalyst for the transformation of the area into a globally renowned centre for contemporary art, together with institutions such as the museum Castello di Rivoli and the annual fair Artissima.Top insider’s tipOn the first Wednesday of every month, people of all ages and from different cultural backgrounds meet in a corner of Piazza Castello at night, in front of the Royal Palace, and dance together to Occitan folk ballads from the region’s mountain communities and the south of France. The atmosphere is magical considering the urban surroundings – it feels like travelling back in time. Anyone who plays traditional Occitan instruments can take part in the jam session, while everybody else can watch or leap in the welcoming, collective dance. There always seems to be someone keen to explain basic steps and persuade newcomers to join the crowd.From me      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aurora Percannella shows us around. Photograph: Aurora PercannellaAurora is a freelance journalist and editor from Turin, and currently works between her hometown and London. You can follow her on Twitter and Instagram. Five to followLe strade di TorinoTorino Piemonte Antiche ImmaginiBalon TorinoI love toretZeno PhotographyFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion