Dear AkramIn saying that we should not have more female choreographers “for the sake of having more female choreographers”, you are choosing to disregard a gender imbalance so egregious, and of such long standing, that it shames the British dance establishment. In the contemporary sphere, female choreographers are routinely passed over for commissions in favour of less experienced men. The more large-scale and high-profile the commission, the smaller the probability that it will be awarded to a woman. In classical dance, female choreographers face even greater discouragement; no woman has been commissioned to choreograph a main-stage ballet at the Royal Opera House since the 1990s. Dance audiences are being presented, overwhelmingly, with work created from a male perspective In any other branch of the arts such inequitable decision-making would be greeted with outrage – imagine Tate or the National Theatre simply ignoring female artists and playwrights – but this being dance, no one makes a scene. Inevitably, the fewer female choreographers who are awarded major commissions, the smaller becomes the pool of women with the requisite experience, which in its turn serves as an excuse to continue parcelling out the work to an inner circle of men.You suggest that historically, there have been times when there has been “an imbalance” in favour of female choreographers, citing Pina Bausch and Martha Graham. In truth, while these women and others like them carved out spectacular individual careers, they did so in wider professional and artistic environments dominated by men. And it has never been otherwise. Women have often been artistic pioneers, and women were certainly the midwives of British dance. But at a given point, invariably, the men take over. Rambert, founded in 1926, is Britain’s oldest dance company. In 1966, with the venture solidly established, Marie Rambert handed over to Norman Morrice, and the company has not had a female director since.Sexism in dance: where are all the female choreographers? No one is advocating the increased representation of women choreographers for the sake of it, or for reasons of box-ticking or political correctness. No one wants tokenism. The issue, which should concern us all, is that dance audiences are being presented, overwhelmingly, with work created from a male perspective. This skews and narrows the range of theatrical experience, and inhibits the evolution of our art form. Your current work Until the Lions reimagines a story from the Mahabharata, with particular reference to the female characters whom you describe as its “unsung heroes”. Its title comes from an African proverb. “The hunter will always tell the story until the lions can have their say.”Akram, it’s 2016, and we need to see female choreographers given the same opportunities as their male colleagues. Not “for the sake of it”, but because it’s time for dance to shed its institutionalised sexism, to rid itself of the whiff of privileged boys’ clubs and backstairs deals and join the artistic mainstream. It’s time for the lions to have their say.