Sam & Mark’s Big Friday Wind Up 6pm, CBBCThose little tykes Sam Nixon and Mark Rhodes, or “Smark” to save time, are up to their usual high jinks and cheeky capers. This week in a CBBC programme-clash, they’ll be helping out the cast of Tracy Beaker spin-off The Dumping Ground in an attempt to surprise two of the show’s most ardent superfans. The boys also go undercover in the In Yer House Extreme segment. Plus there’s music from former X Factor boyband Union J. Ben ArnoldJamie And Jimmy’s Friday Night Feast 8pm, Channel 4For all its artfully distressed caff setting and manic atmosphere of forced fun, the Oliver/Doherty end-of-the-pier show has a pleasingly eclectic celeb‑booking policy. After recent visits from Salma Hayek and Lindsay Lohan, tonight the lifelong pals welcome Goggleboxer turned I’m a Celeb champ Scarlett Moffatt. Jamie helps her to create the Rolls‑Royce of scotch eggs, while Jimmy stuffs wild game into a traditional Aussie oven. Graeme VirtueCelebrity Big Brother: Live Final 9pm, Channel 5Once, Celebrity Big Brother offered laughter, the odd tiff and a frisson in the hot tub. And, of course, the chance for not-so-A-list stars to boost their careers. This series, though, has been carnage, soundtracked by screeching arguments, so the odds of the celebs escaping with their reputations enhanced are low. High-haired poppets Jedward (competing as one) look set to go the distance, but in a house full of twists, anyone could win it. Hannah VerdierBirds Of Paradise: The Ultimate Quest 9pm, BBC2BBC security correspondent Frank Gardner, also a keen birdwatcher, and the adventurer Benedict Allen visit Papua New Guinea in search of the ornithologist’s holy grail: the bird of paradise. Gardner frets that the expedition may be beyond him: he has needed a wheelchair since being shot by al-Qaida sympathisers in Saudi Arabia in 2004. Allen, who knows Papua New Guinea well, is under no illusions about the difficulties. Excellent. Andrew MuellerPiers Morgan’s Life Stories 9pm, ITVThe subject of this opening episode of Morgan’s obsequious chatshow was originally intended to be fellow Trump acolyte Nigel Farage. For the time being we’ve been spared that gruesome spectacle; Farage will now appear in the series finale, the day after the Stoke-on-Trent Central by-election. Instead, last surviving member of the Bee Gees Barry Gibb visits the moodily lit studio, where he’ll discuss his 50-year career in music, and be subjected to Morgan’s attempt at a falsetto. Gwilym MumfordThe Eighties 9pm, Sky Arts“If this article doesn’t scare the shit out of you, we’re in real trouble,” began Larry Kramer’s historic 1983 article on Aids, 1,112 And Counting; episode four of this fine little series (exec‑produced by Tom Hanks) charts the early years of the crisis – what CNN first described as “a rare and deadly form of cancer in homosexual men”. Activists and community leaders recall the era, the initially unhelpful political response and the commemoration of the victims in the form of the vast Aids memorial quilt. Ali CatterallTracey Ullman’s Show 9.30pm, BBC1The sketch show returns with our Tracey as adept as ever at playing a range of characters. Prepare for a delinquent Dame Judi Dench, a Bond-villainesque Nicola Sturgeon and Clare Balding’s need to present every TV show going (“I just want to help!”). But the best sketch by far makes grotesques of Jerry Hall and Rupert Murdoch (Ben Miller) at a painfully strained family dinner – more risks like this, please. Jonathan WrightFilm choiceEmpire Of The Sun (Steven Spielberg, 1987) 8.15am, TCMJG Ballard’s autobiographical novel is adapted by Tom Stoppard, and lavishly treated by Spielberg. It starts with a descent into chaos, as 11-year-old Jim’s pampered Shanghai world is destroyed by the invading Japanese army in 1941. Separated from his family, Jim (an excellent young Christian Bale) learns to fend for himself in a prison camp, aided by John Malkovich’s scavenger-seaman, Basie. Paul HowlettMud (Jeff Nichols, 2012) 6.15pm, Film4Like a latter-day Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer, 14-year-olds Ellis (Tye Sheridan) and Neckbone (Jacob Lofland) like to mess around on the river, where they discover a boat in a tree and the enigmatic fugitive Mud (Matthew McConaughey). In helping him the boys encounter more strange characters: Reese Witherspoon as Mud’s girlfriend, Sam Shepard’s reclusive ex-marine and Joe Don Baker’s bounty hunter. Paul HowlettLive sportChampionship Football: Wigan Athletic v Sheffield Wednesday Promotion-chasing Wednesday head to struggling Wigan. 7pm, Sky Sports 1Anglo-Welsh Cup Rugby: Northampton Saints v ScarletsCoverage of the matchday four clash from Franklin’s Gardens. 7.30pm, BT Sport 1NBA Basketball: Boston Celtics v Los Angeles LakersThe Celtics host the Lakers at TD Garden. 1am, BT Sport 1