Arnold Wesker: the radical bard of working Britain The first thing to say about Arnold Wesker is that his great early plays really were great. His Royal Court colleague John Osborne certainly gave voice to the frustrated and furious young people of the 1950s, an anger that Wesker shared (though he didn’t much like the “angry young man” tag). But, as the child of a Jewish communist family in the East End, he set that anger within the context of his family’s personal and political history, from the radicalism of the 1930s through the horrors of the second world war to the disillusionment of the 50s. If you want to know about the inflexibilities of the British class system and how young men like Wesker sought to break free of them, you go to The Kitchen, his national service play Chips with Everything, and the trilogy of plays about two working-class families (one of them his own) in the middle years of the 20th century.Arnold Wesker: kitchen-sink dramatist – in pictures  Wesker was lucky that he was able – at a crucial moment in postwar history – to apply his life to his times. His plays spoke to audiences who shared his history. Plays like The Kitchen, Chicken Soup with Barley and Roots (all of which have had excellent revivals in the last five years, at the National, the Royal Court and the Donmar) still resonate, perhaps partly because his own ambivalence about his characters (including those based on himself) is so clear and painful. Wesker affected bemusement at being thought a curmudgeon. Unlike some other playwrights with that reputation, he was personally delightful, not least to playwrights of succeeding generations, particularly over food. I got to know him and his wife Dusty (the original of the central character of Roots) when he was working in a Birmingham less populated with good restaurants than it is now (though Arnold was well able to sniff them out).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Not such an angry young man … Wesker pictured painting his house. Photograph: ANL/Rex/ShutterstockI was also with him on a number of British Council tours to eastern Europe, about which he was knowledgable and – of course – often pained. In Budapest, we dined in the restaurant where plans for the 1956 uprising were finalised. Most poignant of all was to see him in the Jewish museum in Prague, in front of a drawing rescued from an extermination camp, and realising that the child who drew it shared his date of birth.His later plays became more personal but also less directly autobiographical, and did not receive the recognition he felt they deserved. He was justly angered by the RSC’s pulling their production of his play The Journalists, and distressed by the fact that his pro-Shylock reworking of The Merchant of Venice (which failed on Broadway after the death of its star, Zero Mostel, on the pre-New York tour) never achieved a London production – though it was given a fine British premiere at Birmingham Rep, where Wesker also directed his series of monologues, Annie Wobbler, for the remarkable Nichola McAuliffe. Like Osborne, his later work included two painfully honest memoirs. It’s certainly true that British theatre could have made better use of him.