The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Malcolm Galaxy: Fever   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Certainly puts the cat among the pigeons! Good to start afresh and open-minded.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Devo: Working In A Coalmine   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pure arm and hammer action. No one’s safe when it starts worming away.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Joe: Punters Step Out   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’m a bit behind with this but I can’t stop playing it. Turns people a bit barmy with the carousel organs.The track I wish I’d signed to my label Ed Sheeran: Thinking Out Loud   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Would set things up for a sparkly financial future, let’s face it.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Skidoo: Stockton’s Wing   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sounds like a jig in the outback. Jigs rule. Watch the people form a circle every single time. Part of me wishes I had Celtic heritage to complement my obsession with jigs.The track that got me out of bed this morning Ryuichi Sakamoto: Tibetan Dance   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Such happy music – serious music can get so naff. Day or night, this puts a spring in my step.The track I wish I’d never playedI played a prog set at Glastonbury once, thinking it’d be appropriate. About five people turned up and I wasn’t asked back. Those were the days!The ideal festival track Sister Sledge: Thinking Of You   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Festivals, weddings, lock-ins, doesn’t matter, everyone loves it.The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding Hall & Oates: You Make My Dreams   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest My friend proposed to his wife with this, and it’s become the biggest wedding track for me since. I was so inspired by the proposal I made a cover version of it. Very fun to sing.The best track by my favourite new artist Laura Groves: Dream Story   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We’ve been working together for a few years and this is her best so far, I reckon. Laura is a songwriting queen. We’re working on her album now, and she never stops surprising.The track I’d play at my funeral Stephen Stills: Singin’ Call    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A favourite of all time. I love the way it builds. The melodies and harmonies are beautiful, and Stills soars through it with the gentlest touch. Moving to the core.Bullion plays Oslo, E8, Saturday 26 March