Travel Man: 48 Hours in Paris8.30pm, Channel 4Richard Ayoade takes his desert-dry snark to France, staying at l’Hotel, the opulent site of Oscar Wilde’s death. Leaving that shrine to Left Bank literary chic, he heads for the Montparnasse tower to look at the Eiffel tower, before going on a scooter tour, eating calf’s head casserole, drinking absinthe and learning about cordon bleu cookery, fine art and bespoke perfume. Trying not to simply stand there helpless with laughter as Ayoade relentlessly undermines his own enterprise is this week’s companion, Mel Giedroyc. Jack SealeDerren Brown: Pushed to the Edge9pm, Channel 4“We’ll do anything to fit in,” frets Derren, against footage of Islamic State fighters and Anonymous protesters. To enable a keener understanding of social compliance, he has orchestrated a complex setup – there’s a charity auction, and the potential for someone to become a murderer – although to reveal more would be to risk spoilers. The result is ludicrous, disturbing, timely and a great plug for special-effects team Igor Studios. Ali CatterallStargazing Live9pm, BBC2A new series of the engaging space series with Professor Brian Cox and Dara Ó Briain. Most exciting tonight is their interview with new British space celebrity Tim Peake, whom they speak to as he zooms over our heads, watching Star Wars and eating dehydrated macaroni cheese. Comedian John Bishop has a bash at spaceman training at the European Astronaut Centre in Cologne, and Professor Lucie Green provides tips on how to spot Peake’s giant space caravan as it soars above us in the night sky. Julia RaesideSaved9pm, ITVThe documentary series recalling life-or-death situations that brought out the best in ordinary Britons continues. In the case of Neville Powell and Tim Slater this meant going to the aid of Peter Langdown, a teenager who was left impaled in his seat following a car crash, but needed to be pulled out of the vehicle because of an electrical fire. We also hear from Dan Ward – whose fishing trip went badly awry when his kayak tipped over in rough and chilly waters – and his surfer rescuer, Steve Lewis. Jonathan WrightThe Secret Life of the Family10pm, Channel 5Debut of Channel 5’s new reality conceit, in which six families are filmed around the clock in order to present a portrait of family life in 21st-century Britain and/or inflame the passions of the online peanut gallery. The theme of tonight’s episode is chores, and, perhaps in recognition of the fact that watching people do them is even duller than doing them, the mothers are encouraged to persuade their partners and children to pitch in, with varying success. It’s narrated by Hugh Dennis, late of Outnumbered. Andrew MuellerThe Knick9pm, Sky AtlanticSecond series of the Steven Soderbergh-directed medical drama, which combines period allure with a story of characters yearning to escape from the prejudices and limitations of their age. Clive Owen stars as Thackery, the chief surgeon at an early 20th-century New York hospital battling for more modern methods. In this opener, he has taken time out to tackle his ongoing drug addiction, leaving the Knick in the charge of his African-American assistant Dr Edwards, enraging the returning Dr Gallinger. David StubbsStella9pm, Sky1Ruth Jones’s comedy-drama opens for its fifth series of slightly ridiculous storylines and panto-esque characters. Stella is being ridiculously tolerant of the fact that her current love interest, Michael, is fathering the lovechild of Beyoncé, whom Aunty Brenda refers to as the local Jezebel. Nadine is preparing to christen her daughter, while her dopey husband, Karl, is stuck on a train. Meanwhile, there’s a new undertaker in Pontyberry as Ivan Schloss (Fresh Meat’s Tony Gardner) comes to town. It’s pleasant comfort telly. Hannah Verdier      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brent Biscoe, Bill Paxton and Billy Bob Thornton in A Simple Plan. Photograph: Allstar/BBC/Sportsphoto LtdFilm choiceA Simple Plan (Sam Raimi, 1998) 11.40pm, BBC1Three rural guys – Hank (Bill Paxton), his slow-on-the-uptake brother Jacob (Billy Bob Thornton) and the latter’s redneck friend Lou (Brent Briscoe) – find a crashed plane containing $4.4m in a snowy wood. Their simple plan – to hang on to the loot and say nothing – leads to one death after another as inevitably as retribution in Greek tragedy. Raimi’s intelligent thriller is an original, with the brothers’ loving but stunted relationship at its aching heart. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportOne Day International cricket: Australia v India The opening game of the series from Perth. 6am, Sky Sports 2WTA tennis: The Apia International Sydney Day three from the Sydney Olympic Park Tennis Centre. 7am, BT Sport 1Snooker: The Masters Ronnie O’Sullivan v Mark Williams from Ally Pally. 1pm, BBC2Premier League football: Newcastle United v Manchester United Live coverage from St James’ Park. 7pm, BT Sport 1