Melvin Burgess is to be honoured with a special achievement award in the YA Book prize 2016, to celebrate 20 years since the release of cult classic YA novel Junk. The story of two teenagers ( Tar and Gemma) who succumb to drugs and prostitution, it’s release was met with a wave of controversy in 1996. Despite its critics, the novel went on to win the Guardian Children’s fiction prize and the Carnegie Medal in 1997, and now Melvin Burgess is being presented with the special YA Books prize accolade at the Hay Festival this June. Two decades on the book has been credited with popularising the YA genre and attracting a whole new legion of readers.To mark the 20th anniversary here are some of our favourite quotes from Junk  Try it once. Try everything once. All the stuff you hear about one little hit and you’re a junkie for life is just stories, you know. - Gemma It was a love story. Me, Gemma, and junk. - Tar  Sometimes maybe you need an experience. The experience can be a person or it can be a drug. The experience opens a door that was there all the time but you never saw it. Or maybe it blasts you into outer space. - Tar Why Melvin Burgess's 'dangerous' books aren't dangerous at all  You can do anything you want. You don’t believe me. You think, she’s out of her head. Yeah, I’m out of my head- on being me. What are you on? On being them. You don’t even know. I bet you were never given a chance to know - Lily  I like being in love. It’s like giving a part of yourself away. Love if forever! yeah, well, I don’t believe that any more. It’s something that happens too you like anything else. It’s starts and it stops. Being an addict ... now that lasts forever. - Tar  I’ve done everything. All of it. You think it, I’ve done it. All the things you never dared, all the things you dream about, all the things you were curious about and then forgot because you knew you never would. I did ‘em, I did ‘em yesterday while you were still in bed. What about you? When’s it gonna be your turn? - Lily Melvin Burgess: "Junk was one of the first teen books: I invented the territory."  Chasing the dragon ... yeah. It’s like Chinese magic. That smoke, that’s your Chinese dragon, and when you breathe that dragon in and he coils about in your veins, like Lily said, you feel better than anyone else ever did - Gemma  Listen. You can be anything you want to be. Be careful. It’s a spell. It’s magic. Listen to the words. You can be anything, you can do anything, you can be anything, you can do anything. Listen to the magic - Lily  What I love about the book is the way that - it may not be real but, as with every great fictional story - every work is true - Malorie Blackman  It was a wonderful thing to write a book that caused such a fuss at home and abroad, and was at the heart of a national debate about youth, drugs, education and literature. I’m very proud of it as a book - and even more proud that that it’s been such a force for good in the world. - Melvin Burgess on writing Junk Have we missed your favourite quote from Junk? Let us know on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by email childrens.books@theguardian.com. You can buy Melvin Burgess’s Junk from the Guardian Bookshop.Date for your diaries: chat live with Melvin Burgess, Louise O’Neill, Katie Everson, Non Pratt, William Sutcliffe and Chris Vick (more authors tbc) on 15 May 2016 from 5-6pm #GdnTeenTaboo. We’ll be discussing pushing the boundaries and breaking taboos in teen/YA lit.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 