Breaking Bad – ‘Caballo Sin Nombre’ (2010)Walter White’s greatest achievement may not have been an extensive crystal meth empire, but his ability to land a frankly enormous pizza on his own roof, with one furious toss of the box. According to star Bryan Cranston, there was a rubber prop pizza ready to go in case the fling was a flop, but he nailed it on the first take. Breaking Bad’s creator Vince Gilligan has since pleaded with fans to stop throwing pizzas at the house, as it upsets the owners (and is a waste of pizza).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Walter White cleans the pizza from his roof after throwing it up there in a fit of rage. Photograph: Publicity imageLouie (2010 –)The opening credits of Louis CK’s sitcom not only feature the catchiest theme tune of recent times, but a quintessential late-night New York scene. Louis exits the subway and heads to Ben’s Pizzeria in Greenwich Village ($2.75 a cheese slice) for sustenance, before reaching the Comedy Cellar where he begins each episode with a standup set. Criminally, he appears to throw away the crust.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Louis CK exits the subway and heads to Ben’s Pizzeria in Greenwich Village... Photograph: FX NetworksThe Net (1995)Before we could order food at the touch of a thumbprint, Sandra Bullock basically invented Deliveroo during the opening scene from this now hilariously rudimentary internet thriller. While working at home, she heads to “pizza.net” (“We deliver the best pizza in Cyberspace!”) for a regular crust and a pungent blend of garlic, anchovies and extra cheese. Yes, in this film, computers lead to multiple deaths and global espionage, but they also lead to pizza and it looks delicious.Saturday Night Fever (1977)Joining Louis CK in the great pizza-based opening credits race is John Travolta as Tony Manero, shop assistant by day and king of the dancefloor by night. Travolta struts down the streets of Brooklyn to the sound of Stayin Alive, pausing to pick up two slices – unconventionally stacking them one on top of the other – from Lenny’s Pizza on 86th Street, still open today, as it has been since 1953.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Travolta as Tony Manero, stayin alive on Lenny’s Pizza, 86th Street – still open today. Photograph: RSOMystic Pizza (1988) (main picture)The cult coming-of-age film saw two sisters and their friend trying to navigate life in a small-town family business, where they got to wear ‘A Slice of Heaven’ T-shirts and get paid for it. The film builds towards a famous food critic awarding Mystic Pizza his highest rating. Star Julia Roberts’s dedication to melted cheese on a crispy crust continued into the next century with 2010’s Eat Pray Love.Gilmore Girls – ‘Happy Birthday Baby’ (2003)Gilmore Girls was all about the food, be it fancy dinners at Emily’s or Sookie’s cooking at the Independence Inn, but its most memorable meal was served for Lorelai’s birthday. Rory’s attempts to get her mother the world’s largest pizza run into difficulties, but in the end, a true giant is lowered into Stars Hollow on a crane. “We might need to put in a second crust” is truly the “you’re gonna need a bigger boat” of mid-00s teen TV.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gilmour Girls: Lorelai’s birthday. A giant pizza is lowered into Stars Hollow on a crane. Photograph: Warner BrosBack to the Future II (1989)Though the world of Marty McFly had some luck in predicting wearable tech and video calling, its culinary speculations were less successful. In this sequel, the future McFlys are using a cooker called the ‘hydrator’: a machine that expands foil-packed, miniature versions of, in this case, a Pizza Hut pizza – half veggie, half pepperoni – in a matter of seconds.Futurama – ‘Jurassic Bark’ (2002)Pizza and heartbreak typically only meet when the former is medicating the latter, but one of the saddest TV moments of all time reveals what happened to former pizza delivery boy Fry’s dog Seymour after his owner was cryogenically frozen. Seymour waited outside Panucci’s pizza joint, surviving on pizza donated by Fry’s old boss, for years, until he finally closes his eyes and dies. It’s now impossible to listen to I Will Wait For You by Connie Francis without a lump in the throat.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the saddest TV moments of all time? Fry’s dog Seymour waits for his owner... and waits... Photograph: FoxHome Alone (1990)When Macaulay Culkin’s character Kevin is left behind in the family home at Christmas, he acts like any hungry nine-year-old might and orders pizza (“A lovely cheese pizza, just for me”). But as Kevin has the brain of a criminal mastermind, he uses a (fake) gangster movie Angels With Filthy Souls to trick the pizza delivery boy into thinking he’s being yelled at by an old mobster: “Keep the change, ya filthy animal.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A lovely cheese pizza, just for me’: Macaulay Culkin is Home Alone. Photograph: 20th Century FoxBroad City – ‘St Marks’ (2015)Unsurprisingly for a comedy about two women who smoke a lot of weed and live in New York, Abbi and Ilana eat pizza. The season two finale tells the story of Ilana’s birthday dinner night out, which goes awry, as usual, with the friends chasing a bag thief into a fancy townhouse and hugging a man on stilts dressed as a tree. Ultimately, though, they get to where they want to be: sitting on the sidewalk, under a duvet with a naked man printed on it, discussing their future, eating pizza from a paper plate.Rebecca Nicholson is a freelance writer who focuses on pop music and TV; @rlnicholson