Lucy McCormick’s show is called Triple Threat: a term describing performers who sing, dance and act. She fits the bill – but that’s not the only triple threat posed by this boundary-pulverising event, as McCormick launches an all-out attack on your assumptions about femininity, pop culture and the Christian story. What’s that? You don’t make any assumptions. Well, I didn’t think I did either, until I saw McCormick at work.Her show – which tore up the Edinburgh fringe – is an X-rated “vogueing, power ballads and performance art” take on the New Testament. Brought to us by McCormick as Jesus and two buff sidekicks in hot pants, it covers the son of God’s birth, life and temporary death in three chapters. It began, she explains, as a series of seasonal cabaret acts created for the queer club scene. “I did a Lent-themed performance at Duckie, an Easter performance at the Buzzcut festival, and an Ascension at Queer Futures in Glasgow. And I loved how it felt to use the sacred stories in this way, with pop singing, dancing and performance art. Something about it worked, as far more than just a sendup of pop culture.”That’s because it’s sending up religion, too. Christianity isn’t as sacred as it used to be – but McCormick’s bad taste mashup of trash-pop, outré performance art and the life of Jesus still feels transgressive. And yet, Triple Threat is as much appropriation of the Christian story (and indeed pop culture) as critique. Yes, McCormick burlesques the retrograde gender politics of both. But she’s also singing and dancing terrifically, and hijacking what she calls the “epic, dramatic” scale of Jesus’s story to deliver epic drama of her own. “It gives me a lot of opportunities to show off,” she says with relish. The show “massively is about the idea of my ego, both celebrating it and completely undermining it”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lurid irreverence … Triple Threat. Photograph: Claire NolanThat’s in large part what makes Triple Threat so funny: McCormack’s ravening solipsism (“I want to be famous!”) as our host – a satire, she says, on “that whole thing of pop culture as a new religion”. Then there’s the lurid irreverence: Judas and Jesus lustily making out; projectile German sausages in lieu of frankincense; the wise men grinding to Christina Aguilera. The scene everyone in Edinburgh talked about in hushed tones was McCormick’s sexually explicit refit of the Doubting Thomas story, in which, to verify the messiah’s identity, Thomas must probe far beyond the holes in Jesus’s hands.In our godless age, you might expect this affront to sexual and feminine proprieties (“Claiming agency over my own female body,” McCormick calls it) to offend more than her Christian material. But in the event, few protested. “I’ve been making divisive work for years,” says McCormick – primarily with the performance art trio Getinthebackofthevan, much of whose 2015 show, Number 1, The Plaza, she spent smeared in shit. It felt like a leap to bring Triple Threat out of the LGBTQ scene and on to the Edinburgh fringe, where it would play to a mainstream theatre crowd. “I knew it was going to push some buttons,” says McCormick. But she’s been pleasantly surprised, both by the people who’ve come – “I thought they’d all be young, but there’s been a really varied age range” – and by how few have walked out. That’s because, if you can get past the nudity, blasphemy and copious Nutella, the show is fantastically entertaining. And weirdly respectful, too: McCormick’s final scene, depicting Mary’s grief at her son’s crucifixion, is crude, noisy and undeniably moving. “I wanted the piece to be dark and make you think, but also to win people over. When some audience members see that I can sing to a high standard and that there are highly choreographed dances, that legitimises the rest of the piece – all the disgusting stuff I do with food, or my body – for them.” Mainly, McCormick says, she made the show she wanted to see. “I just tried to retell this story with my body, which is a woman’s body, and my references, which are modern-day pop references. With those tools, how would I retell this story?”Having made a huge success of it – a substantial Soho theatre run is planned for early in 2017 – what’s next for McCormick? She’d love to try out the material with comedy audiences. “I’ve wanted to do that for ages. We’ve tried it as theatre now, but I still don’t know whether that’s the right frame.” Throughout the autumn, she has more biblical cabaret slots scheduled back on the club circuit. “Just because I’ve made an hour-long show, that’s not the end of the project. I’ll keep doing the shorter versions. And after that – well, maybe I’ll do the Old Testament.”• Lucy McCormick’s Mystery Play is at the And What? Queer arts festival in London on 7 October. Triple Threat comes to Soho Theatre in 2017. .