Congratulations are in order. We’ve made it this far into 2016, surely our collective worst year in quite some time. The news has cycled continuously through mass murders, political jaw-droppers and the deaths of beloved celebrities. Is it any wonder that for the last few days, all I can think is: please, oh, please, let it be time for the Olympics already?Of course, the 2016 summer Olympics are already as flawed as the rest of the year. If the threat of increased global Zika infections isn’t enough to worry you, there’s the Russian doping scandal to rail about, not to mention the now-typical concerns about the host city’s lack of preparedness for the onslaught of thousands of athletes and spectators. The Olympics are in as sad a shape as the rest of the world. But, still, I can’t wait. I’m excited for all of it, from the carnival queens in the opening ceremony to the extinguishing of the Olympic flame on 21 August, no doubt by a beloved Brazilian whom I’ve never heard of. I want to watch sports I don’t understand the basic rules of, and cry over the triumphs of people I’ve never met. Let me tune my heart to the national anthems of countries I’ll never visit, and stare, awestruck, at the marvels our human bodies can do.We all deserve this break. Usually we get one. Summer in the US is traditionally a time when media coverage on the politics front dwindles down to a trickle. Even in past presidential elections, the campaigns turn quiet after the conventions. It’s nice for everyone to chill out before the final push to election day. However, in this terrible year, there’s been no break since the holidays. Is it any wonder we find ourselves desperate to watch runners, swimmers and gymnasts? Won’t it be grand to have something on our screens or in our timelines besides Donald Trump’s latest atrocity? That guy’s been sucking up our attention for too long. I know very little about the Olympic competitors this year. In 2014, 2012 and earlier, I remember happening upon one profile of a gifted athlete after another, and I eagerly read about them all, excited to see them compete. This year, only a few American Olympic athletes have been presented on my feeds: the gymnast Simone Biles, whose grace and strength leave sportswriters grasping for superlatives; the stalwart Michael Phelps, holder of 22 Olympic medals in swimming; the beach volleyball champion Kerry Walsh Jennings, a three-time gold medalist now paired with April Ross, her former competitor. With just a few exceptions, those names are the sum total of my knowledge of who’s representing the US at the Olympics. Instead of ruing my lack of knowledge, though, I’m more excited than ever to meet the rest of them, and the great athletes around the world, too. I always fall in love with an athlete at the Olympics. Usually, I can predict who it will be, but this year, I’m clueless. I can’t wait to start watching, and find out. After all, don’t we all deserve a little summer romance in the midst of this most horrid of years? 