After hundreds of authors signed an open letter last week opposing Donald Trump’s candidacy for US president, the acclaimed Bosnian author Aleksandar Hemon, based in the US since 1992, has spoken out about why he decided not to join them.Stephen King joins hundreds of authors petitioning against Donald Trump The authors, who numbered more than 450 and have since been joined by more than 20,000 fellow signatories, include some of US literature’s biggest names, from Stephen King to Lydia Davis. In their “open letter to the American people”, they say that they “oppose, unequivocally, the candidacy of Donald J Trump for the presidency of the United States”, and that “any democracy worthy of the name rests on pluralism, welcomes principled disagreement, and achieves consensus through reasoned debate”.But Hemon, who was awarded a so-called “genius grant” from the MacArthur Foundation in 2004, writes in a piece for the Literary Hub that while he too “deplore[s] Trump and everything he and his squirrel-pelt hair stand for”, he won’t sign. If the writers want to oppose Trump’s candidacy, he says, the way to do this is to vote against him. “It’s true, as the writers assert, that ‘the history of dictatorship is the history of manipulation and division, demagoguery and lies’,” Hemon continues, “but Trump is presently abiding by the rules of democratic election, as are his followers, rabid as they may be”.“It’s also true,” Hemon adds, “that neither wealth nor celebrity qualifies anyone to speak for the US, to lead its military, to maintain its alliances, or to represent its people. But what would qualify Trump to speak for the US is his being elected in the fall. Horrifying as that may seem, that’s how the system works – the election is the job interview.”Hemon’s comments follow a speech from JK Rowling last month, in which the Harry Potter author said that while Trump is “objectionable … offensive and bigoted”, he still has the right to visit the UK, despite a petition last year calling for him to be banned. “If you seek the removal of freedoms from an opponent simply on the grounds that they have offended you, you have crossed a line to stand alongside tyrants who imprison, torture and kill on exactly the same justifications,” said Rowling.Hemon goes on in his essay to ask if the authors would have written a letter opposing the candidacy of Ted Cruz, “who is just as hateful as Trump”, or Ben Carson, or George W Bush. “What is the threshold of acceptability? Being a professional politician? Being a Democrat? Not having short fingers? Not being Trump?” he asks.The author, whose novels include The Lazarus Project and The Book of My Lives, goes on to point out the lack of a novel “that has forcefully addressed the iniquities of the post 9/11 era”. If the rise of Trump “is what it takes to get American writers back into politics, let us welcome the development,” he says, adding that “perhaps there is an author among the Open Letter signatories eager to develop a narrative in which Trump – or his hairier, more narratively compelling avatar - wouldn’t be the false cause of our discontent but a symbol of an America struggling to forestall its precipitous intellectual and political decline, to which the absence of its literature from its politics must have contributed”.Trump, meanwhile, when quizzed for the Hollywood Reporter by the author and journalist Michael Wolff on what he is currently reading, has revealed a political bent to his own literary forays.Wolff writes: “He knows he’s caught (it’s a question that all politicians are prepped on, but who among his not-bookish coterie would have prepped him even with the standard GOP politician answer: the Bible?). But he goes for it.”Trump tells Wolff he is reading “the Ed Klein book on Hillary Clinton” and “the book on Richard Nixon that was, well, I’ll get you the exact information on it”, as well as “a book that I’ve read before, it’s one of my favourite books, All Quiet on the Western Front, which is one of the greatest books of all time.” It is, Wolff writes, “one I suspect he’s suddenly remembering from high school. But what the hell.”