1 Liszt: Transcendental Studies; Paganini Studies, etc / Daniil Trifonov (Deutsche Grammophon)Trifonov’s Rachmaninov recording was a highlight of 2015, and his extraordinary account of the Transcendental Studies, one of the greatest challenges in the piano repertoire, surpasses even that. Despite the sustained brilliance of the playing nothing is done for effect; the dazzling technique is entirely used to musical ends. These are the performances of a great musician, not of a showman. Read our review 2 Mendelssohn: String Quartets Op 44 No 3 and Op 80 / Escher Quartet(BIS)Since the first disc in the Escher Quartet’s Mendelssohn series appeared almost two years ago, the personnel of the group has changed. But what has remained has been the quality of their performances; not just the unanimity of their playing, and the care they take over its details, but the sheer energy they bring to every bar of this music. Their performance of the F minor Op 80 quartet is stark and genuinely tragic, it’s a quite exceptional account. Read our review3 Henze: Being Beauteous; Kammermusik 1958 / Prohaska/Gijsbertsen/Ruck/NDR SO/Ruzicka(Wergo)Two of Hans Werner Henze’s most ravishingly lyrical works from the early 1960s, in radiant performances under Peter Ruzicka. Anna Prohaska’s silverly, effortlessly soaring soprano is perfectly suited to the ecstatic vocal lines of the Rimbaud settings of Being Beauteous; while Kammermusik 1958, composed for Peter Pears and Julian Bream, has Peter Gijsbertsen and Jürgen Ruck as the superb tenor and guitar soloists in what is one of Henze’s most introspective and personal works. Read our review      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vivid and ravishing Debussy ... Michael Tilson Thomas leading the San Francisco Symphony. Photograph: Hiroyuki Ito/Getty Images4 Debussy: Images; Jeux, etc / San Francisco SO/Tilson Thomas(San Francisco Symphony)Michael Tilson Thomas has been music director of the San Francisco Symphony for more than 20 years. The depth of the rapport that’s developed between conductor and orchestra is shown in this ravishing and superbly recorded Debussy collection, one of the best things they have done together on disc, in which every fleck of colour in the music is vividly realised in performances that course with rhythmic life. Read our review5 Abrahamsen: Let Me Tell You / Hannigan/Bavarian Radio SO/Nelsons(Winter & Winter)Hans Abrahamsen’s Ophelia-haunted song cycle, using words taken from Paul Griffiths’ novel, seems as enduringly beautiful now as it did when soprano Barbara Hannigan introduced the work to the UK, with Andris Nelsons conducting the CBSO, in 2014. They had performed it first in Munich six months earlier, and the recording comes from that premiere, perfectly encapsulating Abrahamsen’s fragile, enchanted soundworld. Read our review6 Beethoven/Liszt: Symphony No 9 / Yuri Martynov(Alpha)Martynov has been making his way steadily through Liszt’s piano transcriptions of the Beethoven symphonies, recording them on a superb-sounding 1867 Blüthner piano. But musically and technically, the Ninth Symphony presents him with the stiffest challenge of all; one that he meets magnificently, uncovering a wealth of detail that is regularly hidden in orchestral performances and making the finale a genuine climax on its own pianistic terms. Read our review7 Copland: Symphonies / Scott/BBC Philharmonic/Wilson(Chandos)A handful of orchestral pieces apart, Aaron Copland’s music seems unfashionable at the moment, especially his larger-scale works. But John Wilson’s collection of early scores, which for want of a better description Copland called symphonies, is a revelation; it’s all serious music with something genuinely original to say, and superbly played by the BBC Philharmonic. Read our review.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Depth and breadth ... Jaap van Zweden and the Hong Kong Philharmonic and soloists perform Die Walküre8 Wagner: Die Walküre / Melton/Lang/DeYoung/Skelton/Goerne/Struckmann/Hong Kong PO/Van Zweden(Naxos, three CDs)In what has generally been a disappointing year for new opera recordings, the latest instalment of Naxos’s Ring cycle, recorded in concert in Hong Kong, easily maintains the standard set in Rheingold last year. Conductor Jaap van Zweden has the breadth and depth of a true Wagnerian, and the cast is a fine one, with Stuart Skelton’s superb Siegmund, a thoughtfully nuanced Wotan from Matthias Goerne, and Petra Lang’s increasingly involving Brünnhilde. Read our review.9 Tchaikovsky, Sibelius: Violin Concertos / Batiashvili/Berlin Staatskapelle/Barenboim(Deutsche Grammophon)Tchaikovsky and Sibelius are not composers usually associated with Daniel Barenboim and his fabulously characterful orchestra. But they provide the perfect foil to Lisa Batiashvili’s thrilling, soaring accounts of two of the most familiar concertos in the violinist’s repertory, following every twist and turn of her solo line and adding real symphonic weight to the tuttis. Read our review10 Stravinsky: Threni; Requiem Canticles / Collegium Vocale Gent/Royal Flemish PO/Herreweghe(Phi)Stravinsky’s austere late works appear as infrequently on disc as they do in the concert hall. Threni, his first ever completely serial score, has only ever been recorded twice before, and versions of the Requiem Canticles, his final major work, are almost as scarce. But Philippe Herreweghe’s performances have more than sheer rarity to recommend them; they have a chilly refined beauty, which may not make the music more accessible, but captures its essence perfectly. Read our review 