There was a moment at the very first screening of Skins when I thought I was in serious trouble. The pilot episode had just been shown and a Q&A announced. Almost every single one of my Bristol mates raised their hands. We had been bussed in as a thank you for our “help” researching the series, which followed a bunch of teenagers running wild in the city. But we were kids, so had spent the coach journey taking drugs and drinking.Now – in front of an audience of journalists, cast and crew – my friends were asking questions with the sole aim of causing chaos. I spent the next few minutes desperately trying to control them, until I realised that no one cared. In fact, they were enjoying it – that was the whole point of us being there. This was back when teenagers behaving like dicks were looked on with a kind of fondness. And we really were dicks.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We really were dicks’ … Skins. Photograph: Channel 4Reality happened – in the form of messed-up parents, mental health issues, sexuality and, once, a terrible accident. But mostly we spent our time chucking ourselves around with the aimless freedom middle-class kids took for granted then. Those of us who went to uni maintained our lack of focus with a kind of pride. We took the degree we thought might be interesting or easy, not the one with the best job prospects. Student loans were a quarter of what they are now, and didn’t feel like a thing you’d ever have to pay back. We spent uni holidays working in the pubs we drank in, not doing internships in London. I ended up a writer on Skins, which bowed out in 2013 after its seventh series. The characters from my new show Clique, about two childhood pals who go to university in Edinburgh and find themselves lured in by an elite gang of women, would probably consider me and my friends a nihilistic alien race. Because, while Clique draws on my own social insecurities and failings at university, the stakes for young people are very different to the ones I experienced. Teenagers aren’t allowed to be dicks any more.  If we said off-colour things, friends gave us feedback. Today, it's people on Twitter issuing death threats Admitting you didn’t enjoy uni has always been a slightly unsayable thing. Clique is partly an attempt to understand why I was a neurotic mess, wildly suspicious of anyone who tried to be friends with me. But Clique is also a thriller. When I spoke to young people for my own research, they told me about the 12 applications they had completed every day for weeks; about wondering if they could trust the strange-sounding bloke offering an internship; abouttheir debt worries and the things they were considering doing to make ends meet. Add to this the requirement to live two lives – one real, one online, there being a constant need to define yourself on social media – and the whole concept of your uni years as a fabulously messy trial run slips away. When my friends did something impulsive or stupid, it wasn’t recorded for vast numbers of people to comment on and judge. When we said slightly off-colour things, it was among friends who gave feedback – not on Twitter, which gives death threats.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Admitting you didn’t enjoy uni has always been unsayable’ … the elite in Clique. Photograph: Mark Mainz/BBCThe media branded my generation – I’m 28 now – as spoilt and entitled. Maybe there was a tinge of that. But the judgment always seemed slightly ironic coming from a generation who went to uni for free, bought their own houses in their 20s, and had pensions that would allow them to retire at 60. If there was any truth in their judgment of us, it feels less and less applicable to young people attempting the difficult transition to adulthood today. The new noir: how teen TV went over to the dark side Holly and Georgia, the two friends in Clique, are dealing with the time-old tropes of that liminal time of life: uncertainty, low self-esteem, loneliness, friendship problems, class. They’re thrown up against this powerful group of women who seem to be already functioning as successful adults. Their lives are alluring because they offer a shortcut to status and success in a world that increasingly demands perfection. But of course their world is not what it seems. There is a reason you are supposed to spend your uni years puking in a bush and missing lectures, rather than drinking champagne with a high-net-worth client, or competing with a friend when a lucrative, dangerous opportunity presents itself. My misbehaving mates from the Skins screening are now paramedics, youth-workers, academics, financial analysts and musicians. Our hedonistic teen years didn’t lead to a squandering of privilege – they just allowed us to grow up with a little bit of privacy and the chance to make mistakes that didn’t come to define us. We didn’t know how lucky we were. Clique is on BBC3 and is available from 5 March on BBC iPlayer.