The director Robin Hardy, who has died aged 86, made only one film of note. But as this was The Wicker Man (1973), which terrified audiences without showing so much as a drop of blood being spilt, his place in British cinema history was always going to be assured. It tells the story of a puritanical Christian policeman (Edward Woodward) who visits an island off the coast of Scotland after reports that a young girl has gone missing. He is shocked to find his investigation impeded by the community, which is steeped in rituals and paganism. The chilling purpose of their secrecy is finally revealed in one of the great twist endings of all time.Even before that pay-off, Hardy had sustained expertly an atmosphere of unsettling eeriness, in which the root of the unease could never quite be pinpointed. Count Dracula himself, the actor Christopher Lee, played the island’s leader, Lord Summerisle, but the horror on offer was of a more insidious variety than the sort peddled by the Hammer studio.The Wicker Man arose out of meetings between Lee, the writer Anthony Shaffer and the producer Peter Snell, during which they shared ideas, suggestions and research for a film inspired by David Pinner’s novel Ritual. Hardy then joined the project. “Tony and I were great horror film buffs and used to see lots of the original Hammers,” he said. “We wondered why it was that they always centred on pentacles, garlic, stakes in hearts and all those other things to do with black magic. We thought it would be fun to go back to the religion on which all this hokey witchcraft stuff was based – the old religion – and recreate a contemporary society that was pre-Christian.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robin Hardy at home in 2006. Photograph: Adrian Sherratt/RexThe beleaguered studio British Lion made The Wicker Man cheaply as a way for its new owner, the businessman John Bentley, to prove to the unions that the company was still a going concern. But the studio was sold to EMI, which hated the film and pruned it from 99 to 87 minutes before releasing it on the bottom half of a double bill with Nicolas Roeg’s Don’t Look Now. With no press screenings arranged for The Wicker Man, Lee cold-called critics to persuade them to view it. He also accompanied it to the International Festival of Fantasy and Science Fiction Films in Paris, where it won the grand prix in 1974.The reviews, when they emerged, were largely grudging. “The story turns into a barbarous joke, too horrible for pleasure,” wrote Dilys Powell in the Sunday Times, “but one must admire the playing and the distinction with which Hardy has directed Shaffer’s screenplay.” Margaret Hinxman in the Sunday Telegraph commended the film on its “genuine sense of what is horrific” but decided that it lacked “the satisfactory inter-relation of the ordinary and the extraordinary that marks the best fantasy fiction”.Rumours that Rod Stewart tried to buy the picture in order to destroy nude scenes featuring his then partner Britt Ekland, or that the original negative of Hardy’s cut was buried in landfill beneath the M4, only contributed to the popular conception of The Wicker Man as a film maudit. It was in every sense a movie that refused to die.Various versions surfaced over the years, among them a 102-minute edit on video in the 1980s and a 40th anniversary 93-minute version approved by Hardy as the “final cut” in 2013. Shaffer wrote a follow-up, The Loathsome Lambton Worm, which was never filmed, while Hardy directed The Wicker Tree (2011), a “spiritual sequel” adapted from his own novel Cowboys for Christ.A 2006 US remake of The Wicker Man, directed by Neil LaBute and starring Nicolas Cage, was roundly mocked. In 2012, the National Theatre of Scotland produced a musical version, An Appointment with the Wicker Man, about an amateur dramatics society trying to mount a play of the film. But the influence of Hardy’s original endures. British directors including Edgar Wright (Hot Fuzz) and Ben Wheatley (Kill List) have paid explicit homage to the movie in their work, while the band Radiohead recently produced a video based on it to accompany their single Burn the Witch.It would be fair to say that The Wicker Man eclipsed everything else its director did. Born in Wimbledon, south London, Robin was the son of Gordon, a member of the Indian civil service, and his wife, Veronica (nee Rimington). After attending Bradfield college, near Reading, Robin studied art in Paris.He began directing for the National Film Board of Canada and for the Esso World Theater strand on the PBS channel in the US. Then he moved to London and with Shaffer co-founded the advertising agency Hardy Shaffer Ferguson Avery. After making The Wicker Man, he returned to America, where he made commercials and became involved in the historical theme park business.He wrote novels including The Education of Don Juan (1981), directed the thriller The Fantasist (1986) and co-wrote Forbidden Sun (1989), about sexual repression at a girls’ school in Crete. He also wrote Winnie, a musical about Winston Churchill that was staged in London in 1988. At the time of his death, he was trying to raise funds for a third Wicker Man instalment, The Wrath of the Gods.He is survived by his fifth wife, Victoria Webster, and his eight children, Jeremy, St Clair, Zoë, Alexander, Dominic, Justin, Arabella and Tom.• Robin St Clair Rimington Hardy, film-maker and novelist, born 2 October 1929; died 1 July 2016This article was amended on 7 July 2016. Victoria Webster was Robin Hardy’s fifth wife rather than his fourth, and his birthplace was given more specifically as Wimbledon. Details of his parents were added.