Meet What You Eat 8pm, Channel 4A show dedicated to revealing the secrets of the food industry, this week with an aquatic emphasis. How can you tell if a fish is fresh? Do chip shops really guard their batter recipes like state secrets? And how do you make the perfect homemade fish and chips? (According to this show, with a third of a bottle of prosecco – yippee!) Elsewhere, Michelin-starred chef Shaun Rankin cooks up steamed sea bass with lemon and asparagus. Ali CatterallMedicine’s Big Breakthrough: Editing Your Genes – Panorama 8.30pm, BBC1Reporter Fergus Walsh examines the future of medicine – specifically, gene editing, which promises astonishing advances in seeing off disease but also threatens complex ethical dilemmas as it becomes more possible for clever boffins to divert evolution itself. Gene editing has the potential to be literally life-changing, and not for the first time, science will challenge our wisdom to keep pace with our knowledge. Andrew MuellerHandmade: By Royal Appointment 8.30pm, BBC4A series focusing on brands that attain the royal seal. Wedgwood pottery makes items such as its jasperware panther vase using 200-year-old technologies, while, behind the scenes, trying to evolve its business strategy. It’s compelling to watch a vase being formed by the thrower, the turner, and the ornamenter, while hearing about how the brand is futureproofing by, as boss Ulrich says, “getting the dust away” from how the company name is perceived. John Robinson Reg 9pm, BBC1After Reg Keys lost his son Tom in Iraq, he discovered that the war itself had likely been unjustified, if not illegal. It led him to stand against Tony Blair in Sedgefield in the 2005 election in order to highlight the scandal. This true story provides the plot for Jimmy McGovern’s one-off drama starring Tim Roth as Reg and Anna Maxwell Martin as his wife, Sally. It explores extreme grief as it exists beneath the crushing shadow of culpable but unrepentant authority. Rachel AroestiHeathrow: Britain’s Busiest Airport 9pm, ITVWe want three things from airport docs: sparky characters in uniform, humiliating equipment malfunctions, and punters shouting because they’ve missed their flights. This series is too keen to advertise Heathrow’s efficiency to allow such levity. There are jetlagged alpacas and a man crying over a VAT refund, but mainly we’re building to the launch of BA’s new Dreamliner plane. Will there be last-minute snags? Let’s hope so. Jack SealePaul O’Grady’s 100 Years of Movie Musicals 9pm, More4Via a mix of clips and talking heads, including James Corden, Sheila Hancock and Benny Andersson, comedian O’Grady traces the development of the big-screen musical. While you might question some of the editorial choices – more on the genius of Fred and Ginger would have been welcome – there’s still plenty to enjoy, not least O’Grady’s own affectionately catty contributions. On Natalie Wood being upset that Marni Nixon re-recorded her vocal parts as Maria in West Side Story: “That’s showbusiness, gerrover it.” Jonathan WrightGame of Thrones 9pm, Sky AtlanticLast week’s instalment was a classic table-setting episode, with pieces nudged gently into place in anticipation of something dramatic further down the line. This week, then, expect the banished Jaime Lannister heading to Riverrun for a clash with Blackfish Tully, Arya looking to beat a hasty retreat from Braavos, trailed by the Faceless Men, and the continuing integration of church and state in Kings Landing, which may well spell trouble for Cersei. Gwilym MumfordFilm choiceThe Angels’ Share (Ken Loach, 2012) 11.25pm, Film4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Angels’ Share. Photograph: JOSS BARRATT/SIXTEEN FILMS/EPAThere’s a touch of the wonderful Whisky Galore about Loach’s Cannes jury prize winner. It’s the story of young Glasgow chancer Robbie (Paul Brannigan, one of many non-professionals in the cast) and his dozy community-service mates; taken on a visit to a distillery by their kindly supervisor (John Henshaw), Robbie spots an opportunity for profit, and salvation, in the form of a rare single malt whisky that’s up for auction. Just as the title refers to the 2% of whisky that evaporates in the cask, they aim to make the precious liquid disappear. Paul HowlettOutbreak (Wolfgang Petersen, 1995) 10.50pm, TCMDustin Hoffman’s army medic tries to contain a deadly, Ebola-type virus that arrives in California from Africa. Sinister general Donald Sutherland has a different agenda, and although the film switches into predictable action mode, with Hoffman an unlikely Rambo type, the smart cast – including Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey – keeps it very watchable. PHLive sportATP Tennis: The Stuttgart Open The grass-court event gets underway in Stuttgart. 10am, Eurosport 1One-Day Cup Cricket: Sussex Sharks v Essex Eagles Coverage of the group stage contest from the County Ground in Hove. 1.55pm, Sky Sports 2Cycling: Critérium du Dauphiné The opening day features a route from Cluses to Saint-Vulbas. 3pm, Eurosport 2