Hometown: Los Angeles.The lineup: Sydney Banta (vocals, guitar). The background: Sydney Banta, alias LA Girlfriend, is the musical lovechild of Kim Gordon and Kylie. She’s very 80s. But which 80s – the cool one or the cheesy one? Well, both. Banta reminds us of that moment in 2008-09 when La Roux, Little Boots, Lady Gaga and Ladyhawke occupied this column. One of the great things about those artists was that they got it a bit wrong. Enough time had elapsed for them not to give a toss about the gap between the “good” 80s and the “bad”, the hip and the naff. Instead, they seemed to delight in everything from that decade, chucking it all into the mix. LA Girlfriend’s fromage detector seems to be similarly awry. Her album, a blur of pop fizz and indie drizzle, shimmery melodies and shoegaze haze, is almost a concept homage to that whole era, with references to New Order and Pat Benatar, My Bloody Valentine and Laura Branigan, revolutionary British guitar-noise and perky US skinny-tie new wave. It’s just a shame she wasn’t around during the first golden age of MTV because, given the sound of her debut album, Neon Grey, she might have been all over it like a rash. The 23-year-old Banta – who dreamed, growing up, of becoming “that awesome, strong, kickass lady who everyone wants to be friends with” – describes her music as “cute, but with a knife in its hand”. It’s where sunny California gets kiboshed in an alley by rainy Manchester. Meanwhile, Neon Grey – which she wrote, produced and mixed – is, she says, “all about glorifying rejection; it’s a story of consequences, documenting an aftermath of emotions”. It’s lyrically dark and troubled but with a brightly beating pop heart. Live, too, there is noise, but she delivers it to her loyal and increasingly large audiences while “bouncing around in four-inch platform shoes and sequined tops”.Like so much great music, Neon Grey is a sublime collision of contradictory elements. Banta talks about the album as a reflection of her childhood, “listening to bands like New Order and Iron Maiden”. We should warn you: there is nothing on Neon Grey remotely resembling Bring Your Daughter to the Slaughter, but we think we know what she means – that clash of opposites thing. In case you were in doubt as to the theme or overall aesthetic here, the album opens with a track titled Welcome to the Abyss and is followed by XIV’s feedback scree and pulsating electronic dance beat, bringing to mind Primal Scream’s New Order team-up Shoot Speed/Kill Light haunted by the ghost of an early MTV pop goddess. Little Do I Know hits with the force of Belgian late-80s New Beat only with a Benatar or Branigan on spectral vocals. On Subliminal Fantastic, our LA G warns about a party collapsing, while on Tattoos & Chambray she sings: “I’ve grown so tired …” She sounds weary, like an 80s pop starlet with all the sass and sparkle drained, a pallid reflection of her “former” glory. Swoon is slow, creeping, thick with Sonic Youth sludge, like a drone-rock band fronted by a Kim Wilde succumbing to near-fatal ennui. She’s the kid in America who knows life is cruel, life is never kind ...The buzz: “A soundtrack for lonely lovers that want to dance out the darkness.”The truth: It’s ghastly, ghostly … and great. Most likely to: Live for the music-go-round. Least likely to: Look out of a dirty old window. What to buy: Neon Grey is out now. File next to: Ladytron, Ladyhawke, Kylie, Kim Gordon. Links: facebook.com/LAgirlfriendOnes to watch: Whitney, Seth Bogart, Carey, Kristin Kontrol, Creeper. 