At an anti-Trump rally this weekend, the film-maker Michael Moore took the stage to say the president could be taken down with political satire. “Let’s form an army of comedy and we will bring him down,” he said. “He is affected by ridicule.” That army of comedic artists has been pounding the pavement this weekend for a fresh crop of post-inauguration street art.Nasty Women art exhibit aims at taking power back from Trump The movement of satirical Trump art, which began shortly after the businessman announced he was running for office, ranges from memes to murals. The New York street artist Hanksy painted Trump as a pile of dung in Manhattan (which was scrubbed shortly before the inauguration), and a nude portrait of Trump with a micropenis by the Los Angeles artist Illma Gore led to the artist being assaulted in public and receiving threats from Trump’s legal team.Anti-Trump art is more than just graffiti and paste-ups; it ranges from buses to drones and even dollar bills. And it goes beyond Washington, where thousands of protesters took to the streets this weekend for the Women’s March. Certainly, Shepard Fairey made a splash with his poster of a Muslim woman wearing an American flag hijab but that’s not where it ends. Art marking Donald Trump’s inauguration stretched across the country and beyond, proving that political artwork has a healthy four years ahead.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One New York street artist named KATSU launched a graffiti-making drone on Monday, formed of a quadcopter carrying a spray can that writes out “Scum Trump”. The artist plans on releasing all the hardware and software specs so it can be used anywhere, especially in hard-to-reach places.The t.Rutt art duo run by the Philadelphia artist David Gleeson and the New York artist Mary Mihelic bought a former Trump campaign bus off of Craigslist for $14,000 in 2015 with a bumper sticker displaying the date of inauguration day: 1-20-17. They drove across the country last year and spoke to Americans for a documentary-style art project after altering the bus to read “Make Fruit Juice Great Again”. On inauguration day, the artists added two golden teardrops to the bus. “The teardrops reflect on how so many people felt on inauguration day and also reference the golden shower dossier,” said Mihelic. Their forthcoming project, Golden Shower, is a reference to claims about Trump in a leaked dossier. “We are inviting all of those who have been directly disrespected by Trump, including Rosie O’Donnell and Megyn Kelly, to donate urine to us,” said Mihelic, who will be giving the bus a golden shower in Philadelphia this March.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Captain America in Somerset. Photograph: D-NEKThat’s not the only golden shower-inspired artwork. A Los Angeles artist who goes under the moniker Plastic Jesus has devoted a recent chapter in his art career almost exclusively to Trump art. He has created Trump golden shower head price stickers secretly left at Home Depot stores (in a public art phenomenon known as “droplifting” or reverse shoplifting), while he has fitted parking signs in cities across the US to read No Trump Anytime. That’s nothing compared to the mini Trump wall he built around the president’s star on Hollywood Boulevard. More recently, he has created a series of limited-edition of American $100 bills with Trump’s face on them, one of which he sold to Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump for $350.“For me it’s important to connect with people through my art, which is very much rooted in my own moral, ethical and political beliefs,” said the artist. “Before the election, I was looking forward to a time when I could start creating inconsequential cultural pieces again. It looks like that’s not happening for at least another four years.”The inauguration has also sparked interest among street artists abroad. The street artist D-NEK, for instance, painted portraits of Trump as Captain America in the UK county of Somerset “so they were in place for the inauguration”, he said. Initially inspired by the release of the film Captain America: Civil War, the artist wanted to draw a parallel to the current political climate. “I called it ‘Captain Chump’ because I didn’t want it to look like a pro-Trump piece and be destroyed by anti-Trump lunatics,” said D-NEK. “I did it because I thought he looked hilarious standing there all righteous.”On Sunday, the Australian street artist Lush Sux created a mural of Trump wearing a mask that belongs to one of Batman’s villains, in Werribee, Australia. “I think it’s going to make art great again,” said the artist. “So many people are gaslighting themselves as ignoramuses and manchildren on both sides of the political spectrum. Sad. But it’s great material, believe me.”