In a piece for the Guardian’s Weekend magazine, writer Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett describes how the hippy lifestyle is back in fashion – if only with a slightly cleaner and Instagram-ready slant.Cowhide yurts have been swapped for five-star glamping, flower hairbands are purchased on Etsy, and meditation comes in downloadable 30-minute sessions to your smartphone: “commodification of the counterculture is complete,” says Cosslett. Being a hippy is fine in the company of hippies but not in a cul-de-sac of ‘privet drive’ blandnessFritch But before the resurgence, according to those who responded to our callout, the hippy culture was less sanitised – both figuratively, and literally.We asked Guardian readers to share their experiences of growing up with parents who embraced the original hippy culture. ‘Hippiness was like a souvenir that seems cool on holiday, but garish under grey light from leaden UK skies’ – Fritch, 40s, Italy, teacherOne of my earliest memories was of my father going to live in the stairwell of our apartment block. It turned out later that he was having an acid flashback and had become convinced aliens were coming to attack him. He had to move out so that we wouldn’t be harmed. As a four-year-old I was most concerned about toilet arrangements. Apparently he was going to use the window. Other vivid memories are of school packed lunches of home made natural yoghurt and carrot sticks. Hand-knitted jumpers. A dramatic disconnect from popular culture. I knew the words to Dark Side of the Moon but wasn’t sure who Wham! were. No television of course. When we moved back to the Wirral from Spain, I was asked my favourite football team (corrects answers could be Liverpool, Everton or at a push Tranmere Rovers). I said Nottingham Forest because I’d seen them play in a European match once. My school life was pretty much sealed at that point.   Sebastian: This photo is of my family gathering for my sister’s baptism at a Brazilian waterfall. To the left, my dad and mum. Me at the centre, and my sister’s godparents with her, to the right. The picture was taken probably around February 1986, I was six. Photograph: Sebastian/ GuardianWitnessIn Spain in the 70s there was a diverse community of people from all over the world. There was a rich mix of characters turning up on the doorstep. In that context a hippy life made perfect sense. I’d been happy at my school in Spain, but was always aware that I was a bit different to the other kids. I thought that this feeling would vanish when we went back to the UK, but it turned out to be magnified. Now not only was I different to my classmates but my parents were also different to everyone around us. Being a hippy is fine in the company of hippies but not in a cul-de-sac of ‘privet drive’ blandness. Hippiness was like a souvenir that seems cool on holiday, but garish under grey light from leaden UK skies. It was hard for my parents to find work and I became increasingly aware that we were not only weird but also poor. The normal descent of parents from gods to mortals that we all experience through childhood seemed to accelerate to a dramatic crash landing.  I think the upside to my upbringing was an awareness that you could make choices with your lifeFritch I do eat very healthily these days, and force my kids too as well, so it obviously worked on some level. I think a part of me always wanted to fit in. I married a Methodist and a Sunday school teacher – a big step in itself, conforming to the patriarchy and all that. I always had a feeling as a child there was an us and them and would marvel at how well everyone fitted in. I wanted my children to feel at home in their environment. To have music lessons, normal clothes and be able to invite friends round without worrying if there’d be any dope lying around. Of course it turned out that there was no ‘them’. The straight world turned out to be equally as chaotic and diverse. Fathers who never saw their children because they worked long hours to pay for pointless status goods. Depressed 40-year-olds who felt they’d wasted their life following a conformist career path where the rewards were always tantalisingly in the future. I think the upside to my upbringing was an awareness that you could make choices with your life. That there were alternative lifestyles that you could choose and create. It also left me with an interest in the wider world and a willingness to explore. A darker side was the toll the free wheeling culture took on my parents’ generation. My father, and a number of his friends didn’t live to their 60s.The return of hippy culture is like trying to grab fog. Is it a serious commitment to anti-consumerism and environmentalism? Is it tie-dye clothes, a large reefer and a nagging concern that you should be aligning your chakras? I’m not sure anyone was clear about it in the 60s and I suspect it’s much the same now. ‘There was always this feeling of not belonging, and at the same time, at least for me, of being completely integrated in the social environment’ Sebastian, 37, Brazil, librarianNot only were we hippies, but also we were foreign hippies. That meant different. There was always this feeling of not belonging, and at the same time, at least for me, of being completely integrated in the social environment.Most of my best stuff was handmade by mum. Gosh, I remember this beautiful jacket I had, it looked like some air pilot’s in a war film and it even had a patch on the shoulder, and it was completely designed and hand sewn by her. All my friends were absolutely crazy about it, but living in Brazil means it wasn’t really often I would wear a warm jacket. Also, I never went to a friend’s birthday party without taking a present, but 99% of them were handmade by my mum. So I would be the guy who arrives with a totally different present, like a handmade doll, or a handmade engraved leather belt-pocket.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Camille aged 7 with two friends Gavin and Heidi on their farm at Rosebank, New South Wales. Photograph: Camille/ GuardianWitnessI learned very early to trust my guts, my knowledge, my opinions and my use of my intellectual skills. I would not be bent by simple arguments of authority, either my parents’ or my teacher’s, but by rational and logically sound arguments, good arguments. In adult life, that has put me several times in collision course with other people, but it has also opened lots of doors.My parents never proclaimed themselves hippies, and I even recalled them telling people they weren’t hippies, but sympathisers, that hippie was something of the past. But still, I can see today how they were guided by those same hippie values of the 60s. What I think is going on now, is that because of internet, we are able to connect with much more people who share the same values. And because of that, a lot of people who felt they were not connected to the modern society standard way of living, managed to find this other way, which appeals much more to their beliefs. ‘I ached to fit in but just didn’t, particularly when we were isolated in conservative Christian towns’ – Camille Jeboult, Lismore, New South Wales, yoga teacher and student My folks were influenced heavily by the Aquarius Festival of 1974 in Nimbin. My mum wanted to throw off the restrictive shackles of her harsh Catholic upbringing and embraced the free love, pot and permission to be unconventional with a vengeance. My dad attempted to join the ride but couldn’t throw caution into the wind so easily. They separated when I was 7, and he continued in his ‘straight’ job and dabbled in just some of the freedoms hippiedom offered: pot smoking, a long trip to Nepal, a string of girlfriends, art patronage. My mum was a free spirit and took us on the road in a rainbow painted caravan. She joined a dance troupe and they performed in different towns. I remember lots of live music, dancing, handmade colourful clothes, long hair, hairy armpits, full moon dances, lots of different people coming and going. We kids were always different from everyone else and since we changed schools often (I went to 11 different primary schools). I ached to fit in but just didn’t, particularly when we were isolated in conservative Christian towns.Attending the local primary school which had no more than 100 kids, my mum and her boyfriend made friends with the headmaster who was into UFOs so they found at least some common ground in their ‘freakiness’ in this somewhat closed community. My mum offered to teach the kids folk dancing at school. I was mortified but my protests could do nothing to prevent this occurrence. She turned up in full regalia of loose hair, bare feet, long tiered satin skirts and bolero, sequins sewn all over the entire outfit and to my horror sporting her full dark hairy armpits and proceeded to lead the children in arm-flinging, leg kicking folk dances for the afternoon. We found an injured rabbit ... gathered plants, made this medicated wrap to put around the rabbitTerrah I have adopted many of the liberal ideas and politics of my parents. When I first left home I would buy plate size steaks for my dinner, smoke tailor-made cigarettes and I moved to the city. As I got older I become less reactive and became vegetarian, smoked rollies, did volunteer work, got into eastern mysticism. Now I am on a more middle path, I eat some meat, practice and teach yoga. My partner and I work as much as we have to pay off our suburban home and our son’s independent school fees. I feel we have adopted a more structured lifestyle than that of the classical hippie, but we value family, quality of life, community, good health and diverse experiences.Maybe hippiness is just all more in our face now because corporations have seen the value of selling the image to people who want to be like that!       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘At night, we’d catch lightning bugs and keep them in a jar by our bed’ says Terrah. Photograph: Terrah/ GuardianWitness‘I think I’m able to connect with people pretty easily, because I was always taught that we’re all the same, deep down’ – Terrah, 31, Sunnyvale, CaliforniaI don’t know that I can say my parents were 100% hippies. They were born in the 50s, so grew up in the 70s. If anything, they were neo-hippie-ish. But they were definitely anti-establishment. They tried to live off the grid as much as possible. There was this one time we found an injured rabbit in the woods, and she gathered some plants and boiled them and made this medicated wrap to put around the rabbit. It didn’t end up surviving, but we tried. There was another time we rescued an injured guinea. It had a broken leg, so we brought it home in a wagon, and mom made a split out of popsicle sticks, and we kept it in the laundry room for a few weeks until it was better. We went camping a lot as a family. We’d go to secluded areas in the woods; not your typical campground. My mum taught me how to dig a latrine and poop in the woods. I also remember a time during a rainstorm, my parents thought it would be cool to shower outside. I think part of being a hippie is just being really resourceful. I remember another time my mom used electrical tape to bind the bottom of my braids.  At night, we’d catch lightning bugs and keep them in a jar by our bed.Terrah My parents also openly smoked weed, and would take about their psychedelic drug experiences. I smoked weed for the first time at eight years old, with my mum.In the summertime in Minnesota, typical days were spent outside. My mum was a homemaker, so she was the person who my little sister and I spent the most time with. Going on garage sale adventures was always a fun activity. We’d go through the newspaper and circle all the ones that sounded like they’d have good stuff, then map our route, and spend the day buying other people’s unwanted things.My parents would stop at a tyre shop and ask them for their old inner tubes, which the shops would give away for free. Then we’d spent the day on the lake in our black inner tubes. In the evenings, we’d grill dinner on a charcoal grill in the backyard, and always had sliced tomatoes as a side, fresh from the garden. At night, we’d catch lightning bugs and keep them in a jar by our bed.I think I’m also a pretty resourceful person, and not incredibly materialistic. I think I’m able to connect with people pretty easily, because I was always taught that we’re all the same, deep down.