A “multi-layered page-turner” set in the fiercely male-dominated Victorian scientific community has became only the second children’s book to win one of the UK’s most prestigious literary prizes.Frances Hardinge’s The Lie Tree was named the Costa book of the year at a ceremony in central London on Tuesday night.The prize has been selecting a book of the year since 1985, choosing from the categories of novel, first novel, biography, children’s book and poetry. It has been compared to choosing between “bananas and chicken curry” by one former judge. The only other children’s book to win was The Amber Spyglass, by Philip Pullman, in 2001.The Lie Tree tells the story of Faith, a bright 14-year-old girl who wants to follow in her father’s footsteps and study natural science.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Lie Tree: ‘Not only is it cleverly the voice of a 14-year-old girl ... but it is also the voice of a precociously intelligent girl within what is a very male-dominated society.’ Photograph: Frances HardingeThe 42-year-old writer, whose hobbies include scrabbling about on volcanoes, described her book as “a Victorian Gothic mystery with added paleontology, blasting powder, post-mortem photography and feminism.”Hardinge said the win was a total surprise and she felt transported to another dimension “which feels implausibly idyllic, but I like it here and I’m staying.”There will be delight in the world of children’s fiction. Hardinge said: “In the wider world sometimes children’s fiction is seen as a bit lightweight in a way that is not deserved. The fact that it has been recognised is, from my point of view, completely lovely but from a less selfish point of view I would see this recognition of the wonderful work which is being done throughout in children’s and YA writing.“There is a lot of exciting stuff going on and increasing awareness of diversity, there is some very interesting literature.”Asked the staple book award question of what she would spend her money on? “I have no idea … at least a portion of it might be spent on Champagne I think.”The chair of judges, the former bookseller James Heneage, described it as a fantastic, page-turning read, but also an important book.“It is part horror story, part detective story and part historical novel. The tone throughout is extremely accurate, not only is it cleverly the voice of a 14-year-old girl ... but it is also the voice of a precociously intelligent girl within what is a very male-dominated society.”It is set in Victorian scientific society, where even women were not meant to speak out, let alone young girls. “It is an important book, not only because it is a great narrative, with great characterisation, but because its central message is of possibility for an intelligent girl who is out of touch with the age in which she lives.”Heneage said that message was as relevant today as it was in the 19th century. “Lots of 14-year-old girls today would also feel they are out of touch. I have daughters and I know they have quite often in their lives felt out of touch and this book brilliantly articulates what goes on in a clever 14-year-old girl’s mind.”It was not a unanimous decision, said Heneage, but “consensual” after a meeting of one hour and 40 minutes.“It was a pretty even field. There were some dissenters, not everyone was in agreement, but I think you can have dissent at the same time as consensus. There was a general consensus that the book that won was the right book to win.Hardinge’s book is very much aimed at teenage girls but could easily be read by adults, Heneage said. “It has so many great themes and works on so many levels. It is a richly multi-layered book and very clever. “It is a book to read in one or two sittings, a real page-turner.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Loney author Andrew Michael Hurley, The Invention of Nature author Andrea Wulf, Frances Hardinge, and 40 Sonnets poet Don Paterson pictured at the Costa Book Awards. Photograph: Richard Kendal/Barcroft MediaHeneage said the criteria for judges was readability and accessibility – a book people wanted to read.It had a great message for girls but “first and foremost it is a fantastic story with great characterisation, great narrative tension, a fabulous ending”, he said. The win was a surprise, with the bookmakers William Hill offering odds of 5/1 on Hardinge to win, making her the joint outsider.The favourite had been Andrew Michael Hurley for his debut novel, The Loney. Many had also backed Kate Atkinson to triumph for A God in Ruins. The other category winners were Don Paterson in poetry for 40 Sonnets; and Andrea Wulf for The Invention of Nature, a biography of the scientist Alexander von Humboldt.Frances Hardinge scoops the Costa children’s book award 2015 with The Lie Tree Hardinge, a former technical author for a software company, wins £30,000 to add to the £5,000 she has already won as a category winner.However, it is the spike in sales that will likely be the real prize. Claire Tomalin, who won the overall prize in 2002 for her Samuel Pepys biography, said: “The effect on the sales of both my book on Pepys and my husband’s [Michael Frayn’s] novel Spies has been phenomenal. It is lovely to win a prize but we and our publishers are all amazed by the surge into the bestseller lists.”Each category prize winner was decided by a three-person judging panel. The overall winner was agreed by a panel consisting of Heneage, actor Jane Asher, comedian Katy Brand, former Blue Peter presenter Janet Ellis, and representatives from the category panels: Louise Doughty, Matt Haig, Penny Junor, Martyn Bedford and Julia Copus.The Lie Tree by Frances Hardinge (Macmillan Childrens Books, £7.99). To order a copy for £4.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.