Composing for orchestra is an enthralling experience. To live for months with its sound world inside my head, my inner ear constantly preoccupied with how I am shaping that world. How am I using the energies and skill of the 70 or so musicians who create the range and depth and wholeness of an orchestra? It’s a medium that should be an anachronism – in economic terms, it is – yet it continues to be a magnetic force.I have never forgotten the thrill of the first rehearsal, 45 years ago, of The Hidden Landscape, which I wrote for the Proms. Everything I’d imagined had come to life, and it led me directly to my next big orchestral piece, Columbia Falls, for the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra. With two symphonic works under my belt as well as a good deal of chamber music, I turned in 1977 to opera and it soon became addictive.I have composed eight of them, mostly chamber operas, each exploring the medium in a different way. Opera, for me, is structured through the singing voice, but the instrumentalists are protagonists too. I am fascinated by the ways I can fuse the aural gestures of the music and the physical gestures through which we view the unfolding of the dramatic narrative.Opera is a hybrid medium and it speaks to a wide audience engaged by a range of contemporary arts. But for all its hold on me, I need just as much to explore ideas that can only be expressed in music alone: as in a string quartet, for example. Thinking only in music – no words, no visuals – sends the imagination on a different quest. In the spring of 2014 I got a call saying that I had been awarded the RPS Elgar bursary, which carries a Royal Philharmonic Society commission for the BBC Symphony Orchestra. The BBC offered me a welcome freedom: would I like to write a concerto or to include singers? In effect, I chose both, writing a concertante work for soprano and orchestra. I relished the chance to use voice with full orchestra and to deal with a “serious” subject. I believe in bearing witness to the time I live in but I try to do so obliquely: music is not an appropriate medium for literal expressions of belief.I asked the poet John Fuller if he would write the text for me. I have set his words many times, notably in our Corsican opera, Dream Hunter. His poem Siege, from which I drew the text for The Crimson Bird, was just what I needed. The poem illuminates the perennial issues confronting a mother whose son is caught up in conflict: is he a hero or a murderer? It avoided the topicality that polarises people into ‘“us and them”, yet it is concerned with what still happens in our conflict-torn world, day after day.I needed a soprano whose voice could ride with ease over a full orchestra yet deal confidently with the nuances of a contemporary musical language. I thought straightaway of Rachel Nicholls, having been very moved by the radiance of her youthful Brunnhilde at Longborough Opera, and knowing her musicianship across a broad repertoire. In opera, rehearsals are spread over several weeks; there is time for everyone to grow into the music, and the music itself can grow, even during the run of performances. I love these weeks when the solitary act of composing gives way to shared music-making. For an orchestral piece, it is very different: rehearsal is a matter of hours, and leads to a single performance. UK orchestras and conductors are second to none in putting new work together; nevertheless, the premiere of The Crimson Bird will demand nerves of steel from both composer and soloist.One of the wishes of the Elgar family – whose generosity funds the bursary – was that the work composed be one which Elgar himself might have approved. Whether Sir Edward would enjoy The Crimson Bird, I cannot say; but in view of its subject matter, I think the Guardian Angel would.Nicola LeFanu is the most recent recipient of the Royal Philharmonic Society Elgar bursary. The Crimson Bird will be premiered by the BBC Symphony Orchestra at the Barbican, London, on 17 February and broadcast live on BBC Radio 3.