In the late 1980s, a young audience member was indelibly impressed by London productions of two plays by American dramatists: a revival of James Baldwin’s 1954 classic The Amen Corner and the UK premiere of Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom by August Wilson.“That was the first experience I’d had of seeing strong roles for black women, where they weren’t just maids in the background,” says Sharon D Clarke who, almost three decades later, is speaking during rehearsals to complete a National Theatre double of her personal favourites.Having played Odessa, a Harlem pentecostalist, in The Amen Corner three years ago, winning an Olivier award for best supporting actress, Clarke is now taking the title role of Ma Rainey, a queenly blues superstar of the 1920s, who comes under pressure literally to “jazz it up” to make her music more appealing to broader audiences.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to the original Ma Rainey Gertrude Malissa “Ma” Rainey (1886-1939) was a real figure, whose surviving recordings Clarke has been studying interestedly but not religiously: “She’s a very different singer from me. I’m a bit more jazzy and she’s a bit more bluesy. It’s about finding that middle ground where I can do her justice without doing an impersonation.” The musical director has also lowered the pitch of Rainey’s compositions, including the signature song Black Bottom, which gives the play its slightly cheeky title, to accommodate Clarke’s distinctively deep alto tones. Has her singing voice always been like that?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘My voice broke!’ Sharon D Clarke gets to sing deep in Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom. “No. My voice broke! Before I was 18, I could sing soprano. But then, literally on my 18th birthday, something happened and my voice dropped. If I ring someone, especially in the morning, it’s always, ‘How can I help you, sir?’ The weird thing is not being able to sing along to certain women’s songs, on the radio or CDs, because they’re too high.” Clarke, 50 this year, has moved between plays (recently playing Nurse in Romeo and Juliet) and musicals, including Ghost and We Will Rock You. But, in both the Wilson and Baldwin plays, she gets to speak and sing, which is her perfect combination: “I don’t have to choose. It’s lovely. I find it happens, especially in this country, that people try to put you in a little box. Are you an actress or are you a singer? A lady actually asked me that after a show once. I said: ‘What do you think?’ She said: ‘I think you’re both.’ I said: ‘Well, there you are.’” As August Wilson well understood when he wrote the play during the first Reagan administration, the artistic, racial and gender pressures on Rainey had – and continue to have – modern parallels. Her character, as Clarke notes, had to counter “not only racism but all the shit against women”, and, even now, it is a common view that there is a shortage of roles in Britain for female and non-white actors. So has Clarke felt doubly disadvantaged?  I’ve never said the n-word, and anyone saying it to me, I will punch their lights out. But this is a period piece.  “Not really, no,” she laughs. “But I’ve been very lucky with my work. I know there are people who have suffered it a lot. But I think it’s because I have musicals as well. If I had been waiting around for straight plays, my career would have been very different.” Clarke also had better fortune than most non-white actors in broadcasting, appearing for three years as a powerful woman – the consultant Lola Griffin – in the hospital soap, Holby City: “I’m very proud to have had people come up to me and say that their daughter became a doctor because of Holby. I remember being on set one day and looking around and seeing six black women in the scene. Where else on screen was that going to happen?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharon D Clarke with James Redmond, left, and Simon MacCorkindale in the BBC’s Holby City. Photograph: BBC Floella Benjamin on Play School was the only entertainment role model Clarke remembers when she was growing up in London in the 1970s. Although she attended the Ivy Travers School of Dancing in Clapham from the age of six, it never occurred to her to go to drama school, and she studied to be a social worker before successfully auditioning for a fringe theatre show.  She regards herself as having been mainly unscathed by racism “at least to my face”, although she had a bad time after Roots, the TV drama about African slavery, was screened when she was 11. Some local children would imitate a notorious scene in the series, “spitting on the street and telling me to pick it up. I got into many a fight over that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharon D Clarke with Marianne Jean-Baptiste, right, in The Amen Corner at the National Theatre, for which she won the 2014 best supporting actress Olivier award. Photograph: Richard H Smith Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom contains historically fascinating arguments over racial identity, with some characters rejecting as insulting a term, “African American”, which is now a standard tag in the US. The UK has also struggled with questions of non-white identity but Clarke says that “Black British works for me. It says what I am. But a friend made me a British flag, but in Jamaican colours, and that totally identifies me. My family probably came from Ghana originally, but my immediate ancestry is Caribbean.” True to the vernacular of the era it depicts, Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom features dozens of uses of the n-word, which can be discomforting for modern audiences and performers. Has there been any concern among the National cast? “It hasn’t come up in the rehearsal room so far. That’s how people spoke then and that’s what the playwright wrote. And black folks did use it to each other at the time. It’s a word I’ve never said myself, and anyone saying it to me, I will punch their lights out. But this is a period piece.” Most of her stage roles have been American scripts, which suggests that theatre there is more advanced? “Listen, if it wasn’t for the American stuff, I don’t know what I’d do. This is my thing. As a British person, we have our stories to be told. We have to tell those stories.” She has been offered a script by a black British writer – although playing an American character – which she hopes, logistics permitting, will be her next role. As National audiences will see, Ma Rainey behaved like a diva, but Clarke has useful insurance against becoming grandiose herself: “Because I’m not on Holby, people see me in the street and say: ‘Why are you not acting any more?’”Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom previews from 26 January at the National Theatre, London. Buy tickets from theguardianboxoffice.com.