If you had lost your dog in the hurricane, do you think you would have used the same method as Rose in your new book How to Look for A Lost Dog?Oh, I’m not sure! That was certainly a method that appealed to Rose because she’s so methodical and focused. I might have done things a little bit differently but that’s what worked for Rose because she had no adult support: her father wasn’t going to be very helpful and she couldn’t get in touch with her uncle at the time. I might have done things differently but that’s what worked best for her.What inspired the character of Rose?Rose had started to make herself known to me quite a while before I wrote the book; she started out as a quirky kid with an interest in homophones! I have to admit that I have the same interest; I keep lists of homophones like she does! I was always thinking of her as a character who lived on the fringes, out in the country with little support. The more I thought about her, the more I began to think about her as an individual on the autism spectrum and once I began to think about her that way I then started to research autism. I visited a school for children who were on the spectrum and that’s when her character began to come together even more. Cliff McNish's top 10 dogs in children's books As a writer, it must have been difficult to write from the perspective of an autistic child. How did you find this experience?It was difficult to write from this perspective but I did have a little experience with children on the spectrum. During my summers at college, I worked at a school for children with autism. In How to Look for A Lost Dog you reference a lot of homophones and prime numbers. If you had to choose one to live without, which would you keep?I would keep the homophones just because they are so interesting to me! We all know what prime numbers are - they just exist. Every now and then I’ll just think of a new homophone or I’ll hear a word like “soared/sword” which appears at the end of the book. I don’t know why but I just find it so interesting when I hear a new one. I’d easily give up prime numbers. Do you have a family member who you thought influenced the character of Uncle Weldon?In terms of an Uncle Weldon, I’m not sure where he came from, but I wanted a character in Rose’s life who would be a support for her since her father wasn’t. Moira Fowley-Doyle: Follow your instincts. Take up space. Don’t be afraid to make a mess When did you start writing  How to Look for A Lost Dog?I started thinking about it several years ago and the story started to come together in 2011 when we had a big storm in my area. This was the year before Hurricane Sandy; it was Hurricane Irene, which created a lot of damage in my area; I heard about families who lost homes and pets who got separated from owners. That’s when the story really started coming together for me. I didn’t work on it seriously until 2013 and it came out in 2014. What is your favourite part of the book?One of the parts that was most difficult to write but also one of the most creative parts was when Rose finally makes the decision as what to do about Rain. My favourite part, however, is probably at the end when she doesn’t know if she will get another dog but is safely settled in with under Weldon. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? If you could go back, would you change anything about the book?My goodness, wow! Well… many people who have read the book wish that somehow Rain’s original family would give her back to Rose. I didn’t want to do that. I also might not have made the father quite so mean. It was difficult to write, especially the scene when the father attacks Rain and Rose under the table. When you started writing the book, did you know the outcome?Yes, I always have an outline ready before I start a book. Every chapter has a full scaffold. I can stray from it but I have a map so I know where the story is going. As a child, what was your favourite book?It’s so hard to choose just one! I loved light fantasy: The Wizard of Oz, Dr Doolittle, the Paddington books; those were my favourite kind of stories.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Was your dog the same breed as Rose’s?My dog Sadie was wonderful. She was a mixed breed. I actually have no idea what she was, I think I had her in mind though when I was writing the book.As a child, were you more of a maths or English student?Definitely English!Many thanks to our interviewers Helen Fajemirokun and Hailey Jackson, from HaveanInkaboutit book group from The British International School of New York, and to Ann M Martin for giving us this wonderful interview. If your school bookgroup wants to join in the fun here’s how.How to Look for A Lost Dog is available to order from the Guardian bookshop.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ann M Martin with interviewees Helen Fajemirokun and Hailey Jackson. Photograph: Adam Bernard