Pomegranate seeds have become ubiquitous, featuring in everything from M&S salads to Pret a Manger yoghurts. Now, scientists say our sudden penchant for pomegranates could even slow down the ageing process – as long as you have the right sort of bacteria in your gut. Research indicates that certain microbes can convert the raw ingredients in the fruit into a molecule called urolithin A. When fed to mice, this increased their lifespan by 45%. Clinical trials have begun to test the effect of the molecule on humans.It’s Yotam Ottolenghi, as well as the superfood claims, who seems to be behind the passion for pomegranates. The chef has already managed to get Middle Eastern flavourings such as sumac and za’atar on to supermarket shelves, and his habit of adding the jewel-like pomegranate seeds to salads and meat dishes is often cited as a driving force behind the craze.While Ottolenghi says he is wary of ascribing miraculous health benefits to any one food, he is still a big fan of the fruit. “Pomegranates can transform the look of a dish, but they also punctuate salads or slow-cooked dishes with intensely sweet and sour notes,” he says. “In the Middle East, they grow in such abundance that if you have a tree, you have way more than you can use. My parents have two pomegranate trees in their garden and hardly use 10% of the yield.”He suggests adding the seeds to salads, fruit salads and roasted vegetables. And if even that is too much effort, just sprinkle them into yoghurt. Pomegranate syrup or molasses is useful for dressings and sauces for slow-cooked meat, too.The odd couple: Yotam Ottolenghi's recipes combining meat with fruit For those of us who can’t open a pomegranate without covering our kitchen in blood-red spatters, he has some advice. “Cut it horizontally and hold the fruit with the seeds facing your palm, and your hand in a sink or in a bowl. Then bash the back of the fruit with a rolling pin or heavy wooden spoon.”When shopping for pomegranates, Ottolenghi suggests checking whether the fruits on offer are a sweeter or sourer variety, but says you are unlikely to be disappointed either way. “You can’t go very wrong – even if they have aged and shrivelled a little, they are very good. And you can keep them for up to three weeks.”So have we reached peak pomegranate? Ottolenghi doesn’t think so. “They are so versatile I think they will get even more popular.”Ottolenghi’s top tips for pomegranate molassesOttolenghi suggests using pomegranate molasses as a sauce for meat dishes. Cook lamb meatballs in stock, with pomegranate molasses and vegetables, or mix pieces of roasted chicken with pomegranate molasses, onion, potatoes and a bit of soy sauce.