Spoiler alert: this blog divulges plot details, so if you haven’t watched it yet, read with cautionBeyond satire. That’s a phrase that’s been welded to US politics for the last year. So Veep’s fifth season had a tough job: how could it even hope to satirise such a situation? Can fiction match real life? Is politics even a fit subject for comedy any more? What would a Trump presidency look like? Just ask Veep's Selina Meyer Of course it is – it has to be. And Veep has done the right thing, aiming its barbs at the likes of Trump, who has had a parade of US comedians appearing on chatshows complaining, in all semi-seriousness, that the billionaire property tycoon is doing them out of a job by being so ridiculous. Even without considering his policies, this is a man so ludicrously self-aggrandising that he actually said he has the world’s best memory, only to state months later that he cannot recall saying such a thing. I mean, that’s a pretty solid gag – it’s hard to write one that good. So rather than concentrate on how ridiculous things are, Veep has put forward some constitutional loopholes that, while statistically improbable, show that things could be a lot more absurd. Veep has also come under increased scrutiny after the departure of creator Armando Iannucci. Many have been wondering if it has been more toothless with the absence of the man behind The Thick of It.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Increased scrutiny … Julia Louis-Dreyfus Photograph: HBOBut Veep has never been, nor was it ever intended to be, a US remake/cover version of that classic UK show. Veep is a brilliant, hilarious sitcom, one that also has plenty to say about politics and the people involved. So this season we’ve had the show hinge its plotting on the more arcane and unlikely aspects of the US constitution, such as how it is theoretically possible for a president to be ousted. It has given the show a background buzzing with uneasy alliances, betrayals, split votes, lost ballots and recounts.Even though they have explained things as they went along, my understanding of it all has been little better than that of Veep’s permanently baffled director of communications Mike McLintock, who ended the show with a six-year-old “baby” strapped to him. Rather than get too bogged down with complex machinations, Veep has concentrated on its coterie of grotesques, expertly portrayed by a peerless collection of comedy performers.Selina Meyer, the titular vice president, has been painted in an increasingly less favourable light, her mean streak ever widening, her selfishness and egotism at almost supernatural levels. With glimpses of her childhood following the death of her despised mother, we’ve come to understand her, if not sympathise with her.The disgraceful genius of Julia Louis-Dreyfus Julia Louis-Dreyfus has excelled yet again at homing in on Selina’s less flattering qualities: the episode in which she found out someone had used the c-word to describe her and everyone thought they were the guilty culprit was fantastic (also probably a record-breaker for use of that word on a TV show). They also got the US election stuff covered by having the deeply unsuitable Jonah running for office and winning. There’s been no shortage of humour on the show. In fact, there has been so much that it has spilled over on to the internet: they’ve been running some excellent spoof sites, well worth investigating, such as Richard Splett’s Let’s Talk About Splett, Jonah Ryan’s campaign site, and one for Catherine Meyer’s documentary. I hope they keep updating these.Veep’s finale came up with another leftfield twist, as Tom James’s supposed shoo-in to the presidential role was scuppered, leaving Selina unable even to be his humiliated vice-president. Veep has left us with Selina in a state of shock, and the viewer with a similar feeling, both wondering where all this will go when Veep returns next year. Perhaps that’s the sharpest, most appropriate move Veep has made – by blindsiding us, they’ve shown us how unpredictable things can be. That’s a message both depressing and optimistic – two qualities you’ll find in most great satire. Well played, Veep. Episode 10 of Veep screens on Sky Atlantic (UK) at 11.55pm, 27 June.