When Emma Barnett goes on air for her first mid-morning show on BBC Radio 5 Live this Wednesday, she’ll be taking on one of a handful of big talk-radio gigs broadcasting to the nation. Her excitement is palpable.Emma Barnett to host BBC Radio 5 Live morning show “This is a huge project. I’ve thought about nothing else for four months,” she says with a big smile. “I am desperate to start. The best way to do radio is to do it. Radio gigs like this don’t come along very often.”Barnett, a former digital media and then women’s editor at the Telegraph, got her break in radio on LBC and currently has a Sunday night show on 5 Live where she dissects the stories making an impact online. But swapping it for three-hour shows from Wednesdays to Fridays is a big step up for which she has been planning enthusiastically .On Wednesdays she will broadcast from Millbank in London, timed to coincide with prime minister’s questions and pulling in a revolving panel of MPs including Labour’s Chuka Umunna, the former Conservative education secretary Nicky Morgan and the Lib Dem leader Tim Farron. She says the quality of guests is partly due to the “unprecedented moment” Labour and the Conservatives find themselves in that means “we’ve never had so many A-list MPs out of frontline politics”. Thursday’s show moves back to the BBC’s base in Salford and Barnett plans to bring the audience into the usually-behind-the-scenes process of choosing the news agenda, setting up interviews and shaping the day’s programme. “I think some of the most interesting conversations we have are off-air are [those in which] we are deciding the news, [discussing] the angles, what we are going to try to find out, all of that,” she says. “We are there to do breaking news but also allow the listeners to come in a bit on our morning news meeting and deconstruct that for them. I think it’s really interesting to show a bit of leg on radio.”Then on Friday, with the nation getting the #Fridayfeeling vibe, Barnett will try to explore ambition, talking to people who have done well but with one eye on the dissatisfaction with life that she says drove some of the British public to vote for Brexit.The show’s pattern has been developed since Barnett left the Telegraph at the end of April. Since then she has since taken a holiday and been appearing on a Sky News debate show, The Pledge, but she isn’t giving up newspapers. Last month she joined the Sunday Times as an advice columnist, using her first piece to open up about the impact of her father going to prison a decade ago, in a bid to gain her readers’ confidence.Broadcasting from her home town – Manchester – is especially pleasing for Barnett because it underlines how the BBC’s relocation to Salford has revitalised a place she once felt she had to leave to get a start in media. “I was born in Hope hospital literally two seconds away from the studio. For me, sitting there, I look around and think, ‘wow’. I mean in the space of 12 years what was effectively a wasteland with a war museum is now a media centre.“If there had been Media City when I was doing my A-levels and looking at degrees … and then I went off to do the Cardiff [journalism] course, I could have come back to Manchester, I wouldn’t have had to leave to go to London. And I really hope that for the next generation that could be the case.”Barnett’s debut will boost the number of hours of talk radio fronted by women in an industry that is dominated by male voices. She defends 5 Live’s track record in the area, saying it has a “tradition of ambitious brilliant female broadcasters” and citing former presenters including Anita Anand and Kelly Cates as well as current colleagues including Eleanor Oldroyd. However she concedes that there is still an imbalance across radio that needs addressing, partly to do with “legacy issues” and those men in the industry who quite understandably want to remain in enjoyable jobs. “There is something important about getting women to host programmes, regardless of it looking good,” she says. “It actually affects, first of all, the lens sometimes of what you are looking at, but also it affects who calls. I have noticed that if I also put a woman caller on air first … then more women ring.”With her credentials in feminism (she launched the Telegraph women’s section, called Wonder Women) and technology, Barnett is exceptionally well-placed to talk about the culture of abuse on social media. Add in the fact she has publicly talked about her Jewish faith and it is perhaps not surprising she has been on the receiving end. In 2013 she was one of a number of journalists and other prominent women on Twitter who received a tweeted bomb threat.“I went to the pub but I think a few of them rang the police. And the next thing I knew, the Today programme [was] saying these 15 journalists have all had this. I thought, ‘Oh God, I’m probably so immune now to some of this stuff. ’ When you put your head above the parapet, you get stuff. I try to have a bit of a sense of humour if I can. I have a routine: if I get off air and there is something there, I just mute it or block it. And that’s the way I deal with it. I don’t ever engage.”She says there is more that tech companies could do to tackle the issue but thinks at its root it’s a reflection of social ills for which the technology industry can’t be held completely accountable. Radio 5 Live axes Non League Football Show – but it will continue as podcast She adds that abuse isn’t just a problem for those who get it but also for those who are put off speaking out by it and the public who miss out on what they have to say. “I think women are socialised from birth to be liked and very likable, be a sweet girl, be a nice girl, be a lady. And because women tend to get most of the abuse … I worry that we are all putting out very bland things online just to get a thumbs up, just to get hearts, just to get likes … and you really want debate.”In a somewhat ironic twist, it was her role as a tech editor that led her to where she is now. “The reason I got into radio was because, when I got the first British interview with the Twitter founders, Ev [Williams] and Biz Stone before they ever got a PR, I got them slightly squiffy in a bar in San Francisco. I listened back to my tape that night in my hotel room and thought ‘God, that was a really good conversation. They were really funny, and now I’ve got to write it up. I wish someone could have heard that.’ And then I’m like, ‘hang on a minute, that exists. It’s called radio’.“It’s not like any other [medium] to me. You can go deeper, you can go further and you can also speak directly to people: that’s what makes it incredible. Your audience can interrupt you. And I hope they do.”