Allied star Marion Cotillard has suggested that “art is going to be even more important now” after the election of Donald Trump as US president.Speaking ahead of the premiere of the Robert Zemeckis second world war thriller in London on 21 November, Cotillard said that “fear is winning” and that a similar “super-scary … problem” is rearing its head in France, which is gearing up for its own presidential election in April. The extreme right candidate Marine le Pen is expected to perform strongly.Cotillard also called for intellectuals to take a stand to defend freedom of speech: “All the philosophers, thinkers and writers, who question themselves and the world, and who have the freedom of speech and freedom to express themselves, have to do it – for the ones who cannot.”In Allied, Cotillard plays a spy working undercover in Casablanca who meets and falls in love with a Canadian fellow agent, played by Brad Pitt, who is working for Britain’s Special Operations Executive (SOE). After their mission in Morocco, they settle down together in wartime London. Zemeckis says the film’s scriptwriter, Steven Knight, assured him it was based on a true story, but that he “could never find any documentation to prove it”. The director added: “When I questioned [Knight] about it, he said, well that’s the world of the SOE and spies. There’s a lot of second world war history that’s never been written.” Pitt’s character had to be Canadian, he said, as “the Canadians were the only North Americans you would see in action in the UK until the invasion of Europe”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard as second world war spies in trailer for AlliedThe film has been overshadowed by rumours of an off-screen relationship between Cotillard and Pitt. Zemeckis praised the on-screen chemistry between the actors, saying: “We don’t know what [chemistry] is and we are lucky that we have it. But you never really know. I was sitting there for three weeks with Brad and Marion at the rehearsal table, thinking the whole time to myself: ‘I don’t know, I don’t know.’ Nothing could tip me off as to whether it would work until I saw them lit and in the shot together. On the monitor, it was like – bang!”The director also suggested that gossip on social media might ruin the surprise element of the film’s plot twists. “We’ll have to see what happens. You know, you probably couldn’t make Psycho or Les Diaboliques today … that’s just the world we live in.”Like Cotillard, Zemeckis had plenty to say on the subject of the presidential election. “The country is pretty resilient – unless something insane happens, like someone launches nuclear weapons – it’ll be a real interesting test of our constitutional democracy. I think it will probably prevail. America is like no other place: with all these different tribes thrown together, it’s always going to be a cauldron of anxiety.“My own opinion is that people in America confuse capitalism and democracy. People who are voting to keep the US as a stalwart capitalist country are not voting in their own self-interest. It’s bizarre.”Zemeckis did strike one hopeful note, at least for Hollywood, suggesting the Trump years will be, “like Watergate”, a boom time for meaty, issue-oriented TV and film. “It’s going to be great. For years to come there will be fantastic movies with characters and stories set in this decade. It’ll be wild.”