Intergenerational friendships aren’t the YouTube hits of interspecies friendships – but a new film, Joe’s Violin, might help change that.The documentary short, which had its world premiere at Tribeca film festival on Thursday, tells the story of a blossoming friendship between a 93-year-old Holocaust survivor and a Bronx 14-year-old schoolgirl, brought together by a violin he acquired at a displaced person’s camp in postwar Germany.Joseph Feingold was born in Poland in 1923, to a loving family who all played instruments. He was a violinist. “Music meant so much to us,” says Feingold in the film. But when the Nazis and Soviets invaded Poland, Feingold was sent to a Siberian labor camp at just 17, where he remained for six and a half years. His mother and youngest brother were killed in concentration camps.Feingold returned to Poland after the war, but fled to Germany with his father to escape the Kielce pogrom in 1946, a massacre that murdered 42 Jews.While waiting in a displaced person’s camp in Germany in 1947 for resettlement in the United States, Feingold swapped a carton of American cigarettes for a violin. He brought the reminder of his musical childhood with him to the United States, where he settled in New York City’s Upper West Side, worked as an architect and married his wife Regina.He continued to play the violin, but in recent years the instrument became too difficult for his aging hands to handle. So when Feingold heard about an instrument drive on New York’s classic radio station WQXR in 2014, he grabbed his violin and jumped on a bus to the Lincoln Center to drop it off.“We knew Joe was special when we met him,” Kathleen Drohan, director of the WQXR Instrument Drive, told the Guardian. The Mr Holland’s Opus Foundation, manages the instrument drive donations and allocates them to specific public schools in the New York City area.Film-maker Kahane Cooperman, a former co-executive producer of the Daily Show with Jon Stewart and multiple Emmy and Peabody award winner, was driving in her car when she heard Feingold interviewed on WQXR after he dropped off the instrument. Curious as to who would end up with this violin, Cooperman embarked on a project about Feingold’s life and the search for the next music lover to own his traveling violin.Enter Brianna Perez, a sweet then-13-year-old from the Bronx Global Learning Institute for Girls, a school in one of the poorest congressional districts in the country. The school was chosen to care for Feingold’s cherished instrument, and student Perez was selected to play it. “My light is playing the violin,” says Perez, who’s played since kindergarten.Ahead of the film’s premiere at Tribeca, Feingold presented a private screening of Joe’s Violin to family and friends at his seniors’ home on the Upper West Side. It was the first time Feingold and Perez watched the film together. The pair may have an age gap of nearly 80 years, but they are fond of each other and now write letters to keep in touch. “Brianna told me: ‘Mom, I feel like I’ve known him all my life.’ It’s so weird, but nice,” laughed her mother, Merecedes Polanco.“I couldn’t have dreamed up a more meaningful story and more wonderful people to be connected by this violin,” said Cooperman.Soon, Perez will head off to Talent Unlimited high school and the instrument will remain at the Bronx Global Learning Institute for Girls, for another student to practice on.