With four James Bond movies – Goldfinger (1964), Diamonds Are Forever (1971), Live and Let Die (1973) and The Man With the Golden Gun (1974) – among his credits, the director Guy Hamilton, who has died aged 93, was one of Britain’s most bankable film-makers. But his latter-day fame, for these and other commercial blockbusters, detracted in the eyes of many critics from his earlier achievements.Hamilton’s long career began as an assistant director, a job that most usually led to work in production. He, however, was determined to direct and decided that “the trick was not to be an assistant director, but to become the director’s assistant”, thus gaining valuable experience by tackling those tasks that preoccupied bosses chose to delegate. During a six-year period he became recognised as the best in the business, working for Alberto Cavalcanti, Sidney Gilliat, John Huston, Anthony Kimmins and, most significantly, Carol Reed. Following that valuable apprenticeship, his own films included An Inspector Calls (1954), The Colditz Story (1955) and A Touch of Larceny (1959).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Goldfinger, 1954Hamilton was born in Paris, where his father was a press attache to the British embassy, and spent his youth in Canada and France. He began his career modestly at the Victorine Studios in Nice, working for Julien Duvivier on Untel Père et Fils (Immortal France, 1943). When the Germans invaded he left for London, and served with the Royal Navy throughout the second world war.Resuming his career in the late 1940s he worked on They Made Me a Fugitive (1947), Mine Own Executioner (1947) and Anna Karenina (1948), the last of which Duvivier directed in Britain. He also assisted Reed on three classic postwar films, The Fallen Idol (1948), The Third Man (1949) – in which he stood in for an absent Orson Welles in some of the long shots – and Outcast of the Islands (1951). On that film, having divorced from the actor Naomi Chance, he met and married the Algerian actor Kerima, then making her screen debut in Reed’s fine version of the Joseph Conrad novel.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An Inspector Calls, 1954In 1951 Hamilton also worked on Huston’s The African Queen, after the rigours of which he felt confident enough to direct, and assured the producer Alexander Korda that he could complete a film in three weeks. His mentor Reed advised him to make a comedy thriller: “That way if it is only half thrilling and only half amusing, you’ll still have a success.”The result was a brisk, third screen version of Edgar Wallace’s The Ringer (1952), generally considered the best adaptation of the writer’s work. It was good enough for the producer Ivan Foxwell to offer him The Intruder (1953), starring Jack Hawkins. Hamilton and Foxwell were near contemporaries, sharing a military background and strong ties with France. After their successful joint debut they made The Colditz Story, Manuela (1957) and the engaging A Touch of Larceny, with James Mason. Although Hamilton enjoyed script involvement he maintained that he held no ambitions to write or produce, and enjoyed working for those who had “a hands-on approach to production”.Of these early films, the most intriguing was Manuela, a melodrama about a ship’s captain who falls desperately in love with a mixed race stowaway. Sometimes known as The Stowaway Girl, it was written by Hamilton and Foxwell and was dominated by Trevor Howard’s intense performance. It was unusual in being a British film explicitly concerned with the destructive power of sexual passion, its makers describing it as “an attempt at a continental film”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Colditz Story, 1955Thanks to his great critical and commercial success, especially with the claustrophobic drama set in Colditz Castle and the fluent, superbly acted version of JB Priestley’s An Inspector Calls, in 1959 Hamilton was offered a prestigious film based on George Bernard Shaw’s The Devil’s Disciple. It was something of a poisoned chalice, since shooting had begun under Alexander Mackendrick, who had made Sweet Smell of Success with its producer-star Burt Lancaster. However, on their new venture the director had fallen out with Lancaster and the equally egotistical co-star Kirk Douglas. Hamilton survived both the fraught production and the clash of egos, describing it as a decently paid chore. The end result was stodgy, enlivened only by an over-the-top performance from Laurence Olivier. It failed both critically and commercially.Despite that setback, Hamilton was offered further internationally financed projects, including a mildly satirical war film, The Best of Enemies (1961), starring David Niven and the Italian actor Alberto Sordi, and a pedestrian court drama, Man in the Middle (1964), with Robert Mitchum. The latter served to distract from The Party’s Over (1965), which had been shelved by Rank, following censorship problems because of an orgy scene involving necrophilia. When it was cut and belatedly released, Hamilton completely disowned it. He could afford to since he had, by then, made Goldfinger.This was the third Bond film and proved one of the most successful, thanks to the development of a lethal villain and the scintillating presence of Honor Blackman as Pussy Galore. A large budget allowed for spectacular set pieces, further helping the box office.Sean Connery’s reluctance to continue in the role led to the maverick On Her Majesty’s Secret Service with George Lazenby, so it was seven years before Hamilton made his second Bond. Meanwhile he did not remain idle, and in 1966 directed Len Deighton’s Funeral in Berlin, with Michael Caine as a more proletarian secret agent. Hamilton moved on to the logistically complicated Battle of Britain (1969), a vast production boasting a fleet of aeroplanes worthy of a small nation. But neither the craft nor a cast of British worthies made it the director’s finest hour.With Connery enticed back to Bond, Harry Saltzman, who had produced several of Hamilton’s previous films, used the director on Diamonds Are Forever, a gimmick-laden episode in the series which, Hamilton noted, “one directs with an insane sense of power”. Live and Let Die introduced a new 007 in the amiable shape of Roger Moore, but it proved one of the duller Bond movies. Hamilton soon redeemed it with The Man With the Golden Gun, which had humour, fewer gadgets and a now relaxed and confident Moore.He then worked in the pre-production of The Spy Who Loved Me (1977), but despite that Hamilton parted company with Bond to direct the somewhat colourless Force 10 From Navarone (1978), starring Harrison Ford. An adventure about a commando raid to destroy a bridge, it marshalled large forces but proved only a moderate success. That lacklustre event was succeeded by the dire The Mirror Crack’d (1980), third in a series of glossy Agatha Christie adaptations, produced by John Brabourne and Richard Goodwin.Although he felt at odds with Christie’s complicated plots and parochial characters, Hamilton accepted Evil Under the Sun (1982). Anthony Shaffer cleverly adapted the Hercule Poirot mystery and, with the setting moved from Cornwall to a grand hotel resort, the high camp result was altogether more entertaining.Hamilton directed just two more films, Remo: Unarmed and Dangerous (1985) – described by Variety as “a poor man’s James Bond, with a dash of two of three other popular genres thrown in” – and Try This One for Size (1989), a Franco-American hotch-potch featuring a second-rung cast. It was a little-seen, disappointing end to his career.For nearly 40 years Hamilton and his wife lived in Mallorca.• Guy Hamilton, film director, born 16 September 1922; died 20 April 2016