Harambe: the meme that refused to die It’s been quite the month for viral content, with the news that memes are now officially bigger than Jesus (they were searched more often on Google for the first time ever this summer). But that triumph was somewhat tempered by the revelation that the memefather himself, Richard Dawkins, who coined the term, has rather serious reservations about the medium. “In the past, I would’ve been tempted to say, about the internet, that although everybody has a megaphone, in many cases it’s a quiet one,” he told the New Yorker. “You can put up a YouTube video, but who’s going to watch it? Now, however ridiculous what you’re saying is, if you make it memetically successful, something really bad can spread through the culture.”It’s undeniable that this US presidential election campaign has showcased the hugely threatening potential of the form, but let’s focus for a minute on what internet memes were originally built to serve: namely, the deeply ambiguous notion of banter. This month saw a series of relatively well-attended vigils around the UK for Harambe, a gorilla that died in a Cincinnati zoo in May, and subsequently became a meme. Described by Imperial student Paul Balaji, the organiser of the Hyde Park memorial, as just “a bit of bant”, these events perfectly capture the post-ironic doublethink of Generation Z. “The meme has taken off, but people do still care about the gorilla. Once you see all these people here you see that they came for the meme, but they stayed for the gorilla.” Balaji explained to the Metro, summing up the impossibility of filing the youngsters’ mourning either under sincere or sarcastic. If you are desperate to catalogue it, though, just sling it in your box titled “the insidious and extremely grating infantilisation of our culture”.Vine video-sharing app to be shut down by Twitter Helping, albeit inadvertently, to crack down on the production of memes is Twitter, which has this month announced that it is shutting down its video app Vine in order to cut costs. The company will preserve the 40 million-odd six-second videos that currently exist on its website, but users will no longer be able to upload new content. Although Vine, with its abundance of looped slapstick fails, could frequently offer the public little more value than a broken VHS of You’ve Been Framed!, the platform also has to be credited with fostering a considerable amount of cutting-edge language. Unfortunately, that sometimes consisted of the former Clapham estate agent known as Dapper Laughs and his “proper moist” catchphrase, but it also involved users such as Peaches Monroee, who popularised the term “on fleek” via a Vine she posted in 2014. In it, the teenager addresses the camera from her car along the lines of “we in this bitch, we gonna get crunk. Eyebrows on fleek, the fuck”. Maybe it was thanks to the effortless poetry of her driving-seat monologue, or the fact that eyebrows themselves were on the brink of a fashion renaissance in the mid-10s, but “on fleek” soon passed into common parlance. The term – which the teenager claims she made up on the spot – loosely translates as “on point”, and surely has to be one of the first cases of a word that was designed to be used archly, and with self-awareness from its very inception. RIP Vine, you could have been a hive-mind Shakespeare for our times.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The legs’ are an online mystery. Photograph: Twitter/@kingkaydenIs this a photo of Bill Murray or Tom Hanks? The internet can't decide Memes aren’t always signposts to a brave new world, however; sometimes they feel positively retro. One of the most popular memes of 2015, “the dress”, was a good old-fashioned optical illusion, the brain-bending nature of its blue/white/black/gold appearance appealing to baby boomers and the social media sophisticati alike. That was nearly two years ago, but mums of Facebook can rejoice once more, because two rivals to the dress’s crown materialised this month. The first, widely known as “the legs”, featured a pair of white-daubed thighs that in some lights looked reflective and in others smeared in paint. Around the same time emerged what has been commonly referred to as “is that a photo of Bill Murray or Tom Hanks?”, which stoked a debate about which avuncular actor was actually pictured. It’s unlikely that there will be quite the same number of scientific papers written on these examples as there were on the dress, namely because the riddles could both be explained with relative ease. (SPOILER: the first one is paint and the second is Murray.) Despite that, this brand of highly shareable, argument-causing meme looks likely to remain popular with both the public and the click-courting press (BuzzFeed’s article on the dress racked up more than 73 million page views in the week after it was launched) for the foreseeable future – or at least until the nation at large decides instead to start attending deceased animals’ vigils in pursuit of a bit of bant.