It’s a perennial bugbear among children’s writers that every other writer thinks it’s an easy thing to do when, in fact, children are among the most discerning readers, with an intimate relationship with the on-off switch. Three leading authors will be passing on the tricks of the trade in a Guardian Masterclass on Sunday, 20 March. We asked Philip Ardagh, author of the Eddie Dickens series; How to Train Your Dragon author Cressida Cowell; and Laura Dockrill, author of the Darcy Burdock books, to explain the challenges and the rewards of specialising in literature for young people. They also give some useful tips for anyone hoping to follow them into this most demanding of areas.What first drew you to write for children?Philip Ardagh: I always bore people’s pants off by telling them that I used to write before I could write – I used to fill my father’s blank diaries with squiggles – and I loved being told stories, and making up stories of my own. And I think those that have a lasting impact on people’s lives are, often, children’s books, because we read them when our brains are at their spongiest; we don’t know what’s good literature or bad literature – we just know what we like.Cressida Cowell: I came from an art school background – I read English at university, but I also went to art school – and the first book that I had published, I wrote there, on my MA. So I was coming from a visual as well as a writing point of view, which works very well [in writing for children].In today’s world where telly and internet is so exciting, it is such a challenge getting today’s generation of children to feel that books are exciting. I’m interested in saving the medium, really. Save the dragons; save the books! I tried to write how I thought a children’s writer should: really plinky-plonky and over-rhyming and over-explainingLaura Dockrill Laura Dockrill: I always knew I wanted to. I did creative writing at university, and the main thing I went there to do was playwriting and writing for children. But I was getting it so wrong – I was trying to write how I thought a children’s writer should sound, really plinky-plonky and over-rhyming and over-explaining, and just going about it from the wrong angle. But I realised that actually, kids love Game of Thrones, they love manga, they love Ricky Gervais and Russell Brand when they’re doing their adult stuff – that’s what they like. So when you censor it and you baby it, that’s when you lose their interest. I thought: ‘I’ve been writing this wrong; I should just write what I want to write.’What do you find fun about writing for children?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Philip Ardagh. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianPA: I think it was Philip Pullman who once said that there’s a great secret about writing for children: you have so much more freedom than when you write for adults, because you can try out tricks that you might never try out otherwise. [There’s] a series of books I wrote a number of years ago, called Unlikely Exploits and the third book is told entirely in the present tense, the characters appear in earlier books – but you don’t know that, because they’re given different names – and it’s not told in chronological order. So: present tense, not told in the right order, with characters you’re not sure if you know or not – no adult publisher would let you get away with that. But because the books are funny, and because the children trust you, you can take them anywhere. I think it’s much harder to do that for adults, because their spongy brains aren’t so absorbent any more, and we’re more set in our ways. But with children’s books you can do anything.CC: I love writing for children, because they have no rules. Maybe this is true for adults as well, but you feel that children don’t come to books with a set of expectations – so if you want to write an otherworld lived in by Vikings in which dragons really exist, they just accept it! It’s a very open world from that point of view.And I’m not just writing for children; that’s another thing that I enjoy. I’m writing for children and also the adults who are reading the books with the children. I very deliberately write them to be read aloud. LD: I feel as though you can get away with so much more – especially writing Young Adult, like Lorali. I always remember about horror films that an 18-rated horror film was never as scary as a 15 – because there’s so much that you don’t have to show, but that you can intend, build into the work, or just hint at – I feel like that’s about the same with YA. You don’t have to go the whole hog, but sometimes dotting in detail is much more scary or enchanting or engaging. I’ve really enjoyed doing that – I feel like you can leave better breadcrumbs. And with Darcy [Burdock], I can just be like “zombies are about to eat a grandma, and that’s just going to happen” – and kids just go with that! They’re not like “Where did the zombies come from? Are we in the apocalypse? How is this happening?” – they just go with it, and that’s really cool.And what’s particularly challenging? Writing puts the roof over our heads, and cold baked beans in our mouths – but it’s something I have to doPhilip Ardagh       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   2010 film adaptation of Cressida Crowell’s How to Train Your Dragon. Photograph: Ho/ReutersPA: I think Douglas Adams famously said: “Writing is easy; you just bang your head on a blank piece of paper until the blood forms words.” I write because I have a need to write. Some days I find it very difficult; other days it pours out of me, and it’s difficult to stop writing. I think maybe the challenging bit is doing it all the time. I’m very fortunate, in that I’m a full-time writer and it puts the roof over our heads, and cold baked beans in our mouths – but it’s something I have to do. The great thing is I’m my own boss, the terrible thing is I’m my own boss, and if I don’t feel like working I have only myself to blame.CC: With today’s children the problem is attention – you have to make sure that you’re telling an emotional, funny, exciting story, but not at great length. I’m very aware that a child’s attention span is maybe less strong than it was when I was growing up, and also there’s many other things they could be doing with their time. So the challenge is to write something that really makes them laugh, is genuinely exciting and amusing for them, that doesn’t feel ‘school-y’ but also has a message.LD: Initially, I felt a bit more pressure that everything had to have a moral message. It’s hard when you remember that your audience aren’t in charge of the money, and so you’re always trying to appeal to Grandma, or Auntie or whoever’s buying the books. So that’s kind of been the hardest thing – making sure that I’m doing all the things, educationally, that [adult purchasers] are wanting to see. And Darcy speaks in her own language – she gets her words muddled up – and I worry sometimes that people are going to think: “Oh, am I mis-educating children?” But I’ve learned now just to switch my ears off to that – the kids like it, and I like it, and it’s more fun for me to write. What do you think is most important to a young readership, as opposed to an adult one?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Dockrill. Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose for the ObserverPA: I hate to wave statistics around … [but] what we know is that a very large percentage of girls and boys love funny books. Because funny is fun, and you can deal with very complicated subjects – I’ve dealt with death and a great many serious subjects through humour. You can tackle so, so many issues. Some books are just there because they’re a belly laugh, and they’re a romp and a bit of fun, and there’s absolutely nothing wrong with that. But you might also enjoy humour that actually looks at more serious issues, and I think humour is a great way of throwing the door open. A laugh is a great way of saying: “Come in! It’s for everybody – it’s not difficult. Enjoy.” I ask really big questions about wars … It’s very important not to underestimate children.Cressida Cowell CC: I’m not sure that it’s that different. Children want to be moved in some way – but I think this is true of adults as well; they want to be moved to laugh, or to cry, or to think. You need to evoke some emotional reaction from the reader. And children are interested in the essential things in life – the truly important things. One of my picture books, That Rabbit Belongs To Emily Brown, is very much about that. Emily Brown has a lot to teach us adults. She’s offered this huge bribe, of all the toys in the world that she could ever desire, and she knows that the most important thing is [her rabbit] Stanley, because Stanley has meaning – she’s played with him in a meaningful way, she’s made him come alive through her invention. Children genuinely are interested in the truly important questions in life. What is a hero? Moral choices? Death? So I ask really big questions about wars, and how wars begin, and a person’s political responsibility to your tribe or your nation ... It’s very important not to underestimate children.LD: I would say to make sure that the book is page-turning, because a child is so much more willing to just put a book down, and, at the moment especially, there are so many other distractions. In adult work, I feel like I have much more space to describe, and go in on detail – and in poetry, too. I come from poetry, and from wanting to describe a meal, or a landscape, in real detail – but I think kids are like “We get it! It’s a castle! Right, we understand” and I have to be able to go “OK, I’m going to let the kid imagine the castle” rather than detailing it all the time. What are your top tips for would-be children’s writers?PA: I would say these are tips for any kind of writer! But if you’re someone who is juggling a busy life, you might only be able to snatch moments in the evening after work, or when the children are in bed – but do allocate writing time. Even if it’s only half an hour, and even if it’s not every day of the week, once you’ve said: “This is my writing time”, sit down and do some writing, and don’t be distracted. If you find you’ve only got half an hour, and after 10 minutes you’re still not getting anywhere, reread what you’ve written. Play around with it. Think “What if …?” But actually use that time, and treasure it. I’m not very good at maths, but there are 365 days in a year – 366 this year! – and if you write 10 words a day, stick a nought on the end of that, you’ve already got 3,650 words. So if you can do more than 10 words a day, you’re building up your word count. It really does make a difference.CC: You have to be aware of the attention span; it’s a balancing act not boring the child but also not underestimating them. I think it’s important not to underestimate children, not to dumb down, while at the same time making sure that it’s exciting and funny enough and that they care about the characters. That’s a key thing – if they care about the characters, you will get them.I would also say you should read a lot of other children’s books, just to get a sense of what children are reading now, which age group you might be writing for and that kind of thing.Homer's Iliad cast a spell on me LD: Don’t write how you think a children’s author should sound. Write the books that you would still want to read as an adult. Be brave, take risks; I remember when I first met Random House, I was worried that my writing was going to be too naughty and grown-up, and they’d be like “No. Too weird” – and then I saw that they did this book about a little boy who goes to the zoo and gets his head eaten by a lion, and I was like “amazing”. So be brave, and let the editor reel you in.The same goes for language, as well. Write how you want to write. Share your work as soon as possible, because the longer you sit on top of it, the harder it’s ever going to be to share – and take people’s criticism with a pinch of salt: if you believe in it, and your heart’s in it, I think that’s usually the right way to go.