A wise man once said, “There are two golden rules for an orchestra: start together and finish together. The public doesn’t give a damn what goes on in between.” As a German pianist and conductor who has recently become music director of the Royal Northern Sinfonia in Gateshead, it would seem to make sense for me to look to a legendary British conductor for guidance. But on this occasion Sir Thomas Beecham was wrong. The public knows quality when it hears it – not only in the sense of whether it’s any good or not, but the precise sounds that a specific orchestra makes. That’s all the more pronounced with Royal Northern Sinfonia, because it is a chamber orchestra.Growing up in Düren, Germany – going mostly to concerts in Aachen, with its symphony orchestra – I didn’t even know what a chamber orchestra was until my early 20s. Now I know how wonderful, how vital it is. And how much of a labour of love it is to ensure its future. In Mozart’s time, a chamber orchestra was the orchestra. It's what he, Brahms and Schumann all worked with Back in Mozart’s time, a chamber orchestra was the orchestra. That’s what he, Brahms and Schumann all worked with, and they enjoyed working with it (as we know from Brahms, for instance, and his extremely fruitful connection with the Meiningen Court Orchestra). It’s not that alien from a symphony orchestra, just fewer players. Perhaps 30, as opposed to at least 90 musicians. Big difference? Big difference.Nowadays, we’re told that size really matters. We’re all obsessed with what’s big in entertainment; the next big thing. The blockbuster film with its enormous spaceships and outsize special effects. Towering stage sets. In classical music, that trend was set by the huge orchestral forces demanded by Mahler, Bruckner and Wagner (who, of course, used the larger orchestra for music that needed those big forces).       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Conductor and pianist Lars Vogt Photograph: Neda NavaeeYet to think about music only in that way is to misunderstand it. All music making, be it with one musician, a trio or quintet, a chamber orchestra or symphony orchestra, is far more about intensity, energy and intimacy than about volume. For example, I heard Claudio Arrau in concert, aged over 80, playing Beethoven’s Appassionata sonata, and it seemed to me that he never went beyond a mezzo forte. But the intensity was so immense as to render that performance full of weight, depth and real inner drama.That’s what you get from a chamber orchestra. You hear every last bit of concentrated detail in the playing. Every player is much more exposed, every instrument is not just heard but is somehow alive, in full characterisation. You can almost see the different characters – the oboe, the bassoon, the clarinet, the violins – and they have conversations. Suddenly it’s as though you have an opera stage in front of you and everything is alive upon it, telling its story. In an age where new writing is constantly under threat, composers need chamber orchestras to be their champions And yet chamber orchestras too often cede the limelight to their larger cousins. Composers today tend to want to go large, ruling out smaller groups like ours approaching their work. That’s a critical mistake, not only in terms of possibilities of performance but also in the development of the composer, as writing for a chamber orchestra has such different challenges which I’m convinced make a composer grow. If we as a society lose the feel for Mozart’s orchestra, we lose what Mozart and the others got from it: a sense of the centre of the music – because chamber orchestras are so closely related to everything from the bustle of opera down to small-scale instrumental writing; an inner sense of structure – they didn’t just decide to write, say, a fugue into a work… the fugue demanded to be put there because the architecture required it. It couldn’t be any other way. Composers got structure in their bones from feeling the dynamics of the chamber orchestra.In an age when new writing is constantly under threat, composers need chamber orchestras to be their champions. It’s more economic for one to put on a new work than it is for a massive symphony orchestra with its enormous hall, high overheads and many thousands of seats to sell. We want to be there for composers and, in turn, new music sustains us. With no present, no orchestra can have a future. That’s why, in a season where we’re re-examining Mozart himself, Royal Northern Sinfonia has run a competition for young composers called “Mozarts of Tomorrow”, inviting young composers to connect with and write for a Mozart-sized symphony orchestra. The winners’ concert is this weekend at Sage Gateshead, which I’m happy to be conducting. We’re proud, as a UK orchestra in an iconic venue, to shine a spotlight on composing for chamber orchestras. Composers need that. And Mozart’s orchestras need composers. Contrary to what Sir Thomas insisted (though I’d like to think he didn’t really mean it!) audiences know how to listen to what happens in between. When chamber orchestras and composers unite, we can create something really special. After all, Mozart did.Lars Vogt conducts the Royal Northern Sinfonia in the winning Mozarts of Tomorrow pieces, alongside works by Tchaikovsky, Chopin and Weber at Sage Gateshead on 22 January.