Sex sells. You already knew that. But can it also work as a marketing tool? That’s the question that fashion is posing currently, one that can definitely prompt the thinking emoji.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A look from JW Anderson’s autumn/winter 2016 show, which was streamed on the gay dating app, Grindr. Photograph: Neil Hall/Reuters/CorbisJW Anderson, the darling of “interesting”, thinky fashion in London, known for pioneering the gender fluid trend, streamed his menswear show on gay dating app Grindr this month. Grindr also provided inspiration for LCM newcomer Pieter, who turned the fashion concept of cruise – the collections that appear part-way through a season – into gay cruising. Using a Robert Mapplethorpe image as inspiration for leather and zips, Grindr provided the slogans - “HH” read one T-shirt, code on the app for “high and horny”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A T-shirt from Pieter’s autumn/winter 2016 collection. The ‘HH’ is Grindr for ‘high and horny’. Photograph: Kris Mitchell Photography/PRIt might seem an in-the-know gesture but when those in-the-know reach seven million – the number of Grindr users – it’s hardly niche. Pornhub – the video-sharing site – has even better numbers: it had more than 21bn hits in 2015. Diesel, which has previous when it comes to playing with porn imagery in its marketing, has made banner ads for its underwear specifically for the site. Images of models in underwear surround potential porn videos for subscribers to click through. The last time fashion imagery flirted with the x-rated world was the early noughties. Then, photographers such as Terry Richardson took pictures for American Apparel that looked like a hipster version of readers’ wives – young women wearing high sports socks, oversized glasses and very little else. The soundtrack was songs like NERD’s Lapdance and Cisco’s Thong Song. Images such as David LaChapelle’s one of Gisele Bundchen with the baby oil, tan and legs-splayed pose of a porn star covered the Face magazine, while Gucci’s advert with a model revealing the brand’s G shaved in her pubic hair would have been on the pages inside. “That was voyeurism; trying to be seedy,” says Jonathan Openshaw, and editor at consumer trends agency the Future Laboratory, which is putting together a report on the intersection between the x-rated and fashion. “This is fun, playful. People are having fun on Grindr, after all.” Arguably, sex returning to fashion goes against the run of play. Over the past five years, fashion has been about taste and restraint – self-control, rather the S&M kind. With designers like Phoebe Philo at Celine and indeed Anderson, the items of desire have been awkward, interesting and relatively sexless – tunic tops, wide-legged trousers, flats. Even the latest fashion hero, Gucci’s Alessandro Michele, is more about geek than glamazon. Recently, though, there has been a move to the explicit, especially in menswear. Rick Owens’ male models last year wore tunics with holes designed to expose their genitalia, and Vivienne Westwood’s this month wearing necklaces with pendants in the shape of penises.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A model on the Vivienne Westwood autumn/winter 2016 catwalk, wearing a necklace with phallus pendant. Photograph: Pietro D'aprano/Getty ImagesOpenshaw says this isn’t actually about aesthetics or titillation. Instead, it’s a cold hard way to reach consumers who spend more and more time online. “JW Anderson talked about new media rather than sex and porn,” he says. “He’s talking about where people are spending time. Brands need to be more aware of that – and do it in a way that’s not like the weird dad at a disco.” The idea that sites relating to sex and dating are just as valid as a way for fashion brands to reach people as, say, Instagram or Twitter might be one that takes a while to get used to. But it’s the one that the brands involved are pushing and one that a new generation will take in their stride. Nicola Formichetti, the Artistic Director of Diesel, says: “We are just bringing our advertising where the traffic is the highest on the web, and it’s there. We are simply following people and where they go online.” Anderson, meanwhile, described Grindr as “a widely used social platform that really reflects youth culture right now … and, of course, the global reach is undeniable.” 