 During the holiday my children spent a lot of time just drawing and colouring. I’d like them to develop their drawing and colouring skills. Can you recommend some new colouring books for them?Your children are not alone in loving colouring and drawing, as the enormous boom in colouring in titles for both adults and children shows. Colouring Harry Potter's magical creatures: a guide to colouring in Fawkes - in pictures! Some books make use of beautiful original illustrations which mean they are especially attractive. The Moomin Colouring Book provides large-scale Tove Jansson original illustrations which provide clear outlines to be coloured in. Even before the pages have been coloured, this is a charming book, cleverly created to introduce all the main Moomin characters in the pictures and in the accompanying text which describes them. The double page spread on the Hattifatteners sums them up simply as “Hattifattenens never fight, nor do they object to anything or dislike anyone or hold any opinion at all”. The account provides a vivid image of the Hattifatteners who stand in a delightful group waiting to be coloured in on the next page. Jansson’s bold outlines of Moomintroll, the Snorkmaiden, Snufkin and the rest are also all waiting to be filled in any way the reader likes.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the beautiful spreads in The Moomin Colouring Book. Illustration: © Moomin Characters TM – Macmillan Children’s BooksMore complicated is Martin Handford’s Where’s Wally? The Colouring Book. Subtitled The Ultimate Colouring Challenge, the book is jam packed with Where’s Wally spreads – but with a difference! They are all in black-and-white. Keen and dextrous colourers will relish the challenge of creating their own pages for the book while also hunting for the elusive Wally who is even harder to find than ever with no distinctive coloured bobble hat to spot.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The BBC Doctor Who Colouring Book also demands a high level of colouring in skills in its rather more staid and static selection of 45 pictures to colour. Iconic images of the Doctor and his the Time Machine, the Daleks and all the Doctor’s other friends and enemies are finely drawn, giving keen colourers the chance to bring the world of the Doctor to life. Each illustration is also matched with a pithy quote such as “I am not a good Dalek. You are a good Dalek”.  The illustrations in the Harry Potter Colouring Book are loosely based on the characters as they are known from the films. While some are not completely recognisable, the House Elf Dobby is very much himself and particularly attractive. There is quite a lot of Hogwart’s uniform to colour in but much fun to be had with creating the house shields in a Quidditch scene.Serge Bloch's crazy gifs to help your imagination soar! If colouring in seems too restrictive there is Draw it! Colour it! Creatures. The book is an imaginative invitation to anyone who likes to draw. Each spread is designed by a different illustrator and each provides young artists with enough of a picture to prompt them into creating something imaginative for themselves. Alexis Deacon draws four very different and usual houses and invites his readers to draw the creatures that live in them. Alex Scheffler draws a giant creature with a sad face and a bloated stomach which already contains a teddy bear, an empty tin can and a bone. There is an open invitation to all artists to add their own unlikely additions to the bear’s stomach. Emma Carlisle has provided the outline to six expressive giraffes. Giving each one a pattern skin of their own will require imagination and patience!Serge Bloch’s 3,2,1…Draw! Is a step away from any kind of colouring in. Instead, led by the book’s subtitle ‘Reimagine your world with 50 drawing activities’, he makes a suggestion of what to draw and then provides a few visual prompts to help any young artist get started. Children’s Laureate Chris Riddell adopts a similar approach in his Doodle a Day, a wonderful collection of Chris Riddell’s own illustrations which are presented with loads of white space around them. As the title explains, there is one doodle for each day and each is so imaginative and original that it will tempt anyone of any age to pick up a pencil and create their own doodle in response!Got any great colouring/art activity books to share? Tell us on Twitter@GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add your ideas to this blog. You can also use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.