I don’t think anyone could argue that satisfaction has exactly been rock’n’roll’s greatest theme. Consider all those enduring anthems of discontent: Mick Jagger isn’t the only one who has tried and tried and still can’t get none. Eleanor Friedberger, however, has just recorded New View, her third solo record, a collection of finely tempered, careful songs that resonate with a decidedly grown-up contentment. The 39-year-old musician, who spent 11 years as half of sibling duo the Fiery Furnaces, seems to have found her satisfaction, and it sounds plain great.Or, as she puts it: “I hope that this album just sounds like an adult woman who’s OK, as boring as that sounds!” Her laugh is brisk and staccato: “I don’t want to sound like I’m miserable, [like] I’m angry, I’m hurt. I mean, I think if you don’t want to come across as being upset or angry or hurt or jaded or disappointed then you just have to not be. I think it’s that simple.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At her suggestion, we’ve met in a new cafe whose floral wallpaper has already achieved minor fame on Pinterest. It’s in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, within the same two-mile radius she lived in for 14 years. “This would never have been here 10 years ago,” she says, appraising the painted dahlias. Last year, Friedberger left the New York borough and moved upstate, to a house 100 miles or so north. She admits that today she’s experiencing “a weird feeling of [things] being super-familiar and also alien”.Eleanor Friedberger: New View review – growing up and straightening out The reason behind her move is a grimly familiar one for musicians in this age of streaming for free. “It’s as simple as I couldn’t afford to live here,” she explains. “For the past several years I’ve been on this line of being just busy enough to keep playing music and a little bit too busy to get another job, but, just, really teetering on that line. If I was going to continue living here in a way that wasn’t really depressing – and, you know, I’m going to be 40 this year, I don’t want to live in a shoebox or have three roommates or whatever – well, then I would have needed to get a job that didn’t necessarily have to do with music. And I didn’t want to do that.”The “new view” of the title, then, is in part literal; the fresh vista of fields and trees that now surround her home. A home which, by the way, came with the old factory building next door, meaning she could set up all her gear and be as loud as she wanted. Those practical freedoms played their part in the making of this record, but an even bigger factor was a new confidence that she brought to writing and recording.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eleanor Friedberger performs at Sala Apolo, Barcelona, October 2013. Photograph: Jordi Vidal/Redferns via Getty Images“I know I’m a better singer,” she says simply. “I know I have better range. I know I can play better. I know I can write a song if I have to this afternoon. I feel like I’m more in control of myself, I feel like I know what I’m doing more. All the mysterious things are way less mysterious.”At times, she seems to come close to solving that chief mystery, the one songwriters strive for: how to find lines that are both completely straightforward and also sound as if no one’s ever said them before. On the album’s opener, He Didn’t Mention His Mother, she sings: “I so wanted something to happen that day and then what I wanted, it happened, and that just don’t always happen that way to me.” There’s a funny, clumsy kind of elegance to the line, I say. She smiles: “I like that line, too; that was just purely something that happened. I said it, I remembered it and... that’s it. It has to be based in reality,” she explains, “otherwise it doesn’t really mean anything to me.”Interview: the Fiery Furnaces Reality was never the guiding force for the Fiery Furnaces, a band whose songs tend to operate on about 12 different planes of fantasy at once. She and her older brother Matthew formed the group in 2000 and over the next 11 years put out dense, highly conceptual, critic-splitting records which, at their worst, could sound like exhausting grab-bags of confusion. The conventional narrative went that she, as the vocalist, was the band’s literal voice of sanity; a sobering, stabilising force against the zany maximalism of her brother. To my surprise she says: “I think there’s a lot of truth to that … I mean, my brother is a genius multi-instrumentalist. It saddens me to see now people occasionally pit us against each other in the press, which I don’t appreciate. I mean, at the end of the day, he’s my brother, and I love him. And we did a lot of great things together. It’s good to just have a brother again, and not so many other things that he was for so long.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Joe DeNardoOne of the better things about being a solo artist, she admits, “is that you get to – as crass as it sounds – you get to pick people and discard people. I mean, I don’t want to say ‘discard’ but that’s basically what you do. You surround yourself with people who make you feel, sound, as you want to be. With a band you get kind of trapped in all these other roles that are supposed to be static, or they end up being static.”Did she feel trapped or static in the Fiery Furnaces? “Um, for sure, at the time. Was I thinking that, on a daily basis?” The implied answer is “no”. “We were just kind of ploughing through our lives; we did so much in such a short amount of time. And over the course of, like, three years, we were basically on tour all the time.”For much of that time, she was in a relationship with Alex Kapranos from Franz Ferdinand, a band who were also subjected to a relentless international touring schedule. “To try and keep up with your own life and then having to keep up with someone else’s life like that, it’s just really difficult,” she observes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eleanor Friedberger at Visions Festival in London, August 2014. Photograph: Burak Cingi/RedfernsThe logistics of her new upstate life, then, are easier, but so too is her sense of herself. “I used to get real hang-ups that music was a young man’s game,” she says. “And I do think it is in a lot of ways; that young boys get a lot more attention than women, particularly middle-aged women. I had a hard time imagining myself standing onstage not being young and beautiful. When I was younger I thought: ‘I don’t think I’ll feel comfortable being 45 and standing on a stage and have everyone looking at me. How could I do that?’ And I didn’t feel comfortable wearing a dress onstage, and thought I had to be a certain way.”She got over all that, though. “All those rules are just... fading away,” she reckons. “That just comes with feeling smarter and feeling better at what you do.”There is still one habit she holds on to, even now: “When I stand onstage I think I’m Neil Young. Like, ‘That’s how I do it’; that’s what’s going through my head. I mean he doesn’t play a Stratocaster like I play but it’s just something in the way that I hold myself; that’s what I’m emulating.”She gives a crack of a smile: “I realise people aren’t seeing that, or hearing that, but... that’s what’s going through my head.”New View is out 22 January on French Kiss