The weather may still be a bit iffy, but it’s unlikely the art will be of dubious quality when the annual Greenwich and Docklands international festival (GDIF) begins this Friday. As ever, it’s a lovely programme, and it’s mostly free at the point of delivery, as well as encompassing two of my favourite annual events: the delightful Greenwich Fair this weekend, and Dancing City, which takes tplace at Canary Wharf next week, offering a joyous paean to the pleasures of the body in an area of the city dominated by high finance. It’s an annual, quietly effective political statement, increasingly important at a time when the privatisation of public space means that people seldom get a chance to come together within the environs of the city without being eyed suspiciously.Over the 21 years of its existence under Bradley Hemmings, GDIF has been one of several organisations raising the quality of street arts in the UK, a country that has not always had the weather nor the theatrical temperament to fully embrace outdoor work. The fact that this is changing is down to the work of Hemmings and many others, who have recognised that, while UK companies have often had a bit of catching up to do compared with their European counterparts, rising numbers of artists are interested in making outdoor work. Also there is an insatiable audience hunger for high-quality experiences all over the country, from the Yorkshire festival to Winchester’s Hat Fair. The latter even runs a street arts degree in conjunction with the University of Winchester.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Musicians taking part in street theatre during the Winchester Hat Fair, 2011. Photograph: Paul Heinrich / Alamy/AlamyDespite the local authority cuts of recent years, I’ve witnessed a significant increase in the quality of outdoor arts, and also in its scope and willingness to offer considerably more than just eye candy. Just as its close cousin, circus, is increasingly redefining and pushing the boundaries of the art form, so street arts are reimagining what they can do, where and how. The rise in quality – in part driven by the Without Walls commissions – goes hand in hand with a rise in audiences. A really fascinating large-scale study into outdoor arts, conducted by the Audience Agency and previewed in Arts Professional, suggests that outdoor arts achieves what the rest of the arts sector and theatre aspires to but seldom delivers: an audience that is representative of the population as a whole. Not only that, but 97% rated their experience of outdoor arts as either very good or good.The question is what can be learned by other areas of theatre struggling to attract diverse audiences, particularly when the Warwick Commission found that the wealthiest, best educated and least ethnically diverse 8% of the population are its most culturally active segment.Of course, the fact that a great deal of street arts and outdoor work is free is a factor, but I suspect there are more significant factors at play in outdoor arts, which remove the barriers to arts engagement. One is simply that there are no doors, either to keep audiences out or indeed to make them feel trapped (outdoor theatre audiences are demanding because they will simply vote with their feet if you fail to engage them). That most events happen in a place where the audience already feel at home also plays a part. Research shows that audiences for such events are predominantly local.I know families who mark off the GDIF and Greenwich Fair dates on their calendar in the same way they do family birthdays they wouldn’t want to miss. They feel the genuine sense of fun during the weekend and that it belongs to them, enjoying the way it disrupts the spectacle of everyday life, makes them set aside daily life and encourages them to play. That is well worth celebrating, and for other forms of theatre, it’s also worth considering how they might engage those audiences with the same level of success as street arts.