The literary scholar Barbara Hardy, who has died aged 92, delighted in the challenge of a good argument. Because she never forgot that literature was made from human experience, she was astringently sceptical of theory: particularity and clarity grounded her work.They were also its themes, from The Novels of George Eliot: A Study in Form (1959), via The Appropriate Form (1964) and Tellers and Listeners (1975), to the detail-packed George Eliot: A Critic’s Biography (2006). Barbara preferred the term truthfulness to the abstract technical term “realism”. Her humanism meant that though she believed the reader’s “narrative curiosity” was aroused by form, form in a novel or poem was always balanced by feeling, pattern by the particularity of detail. The interaction between a writer and a reader was central to her thinking.The Novels of George Eliot was a liberating work for its time, applying the principles of close reading advocated by FR Leavis to the novel form in an unprecedentedly detailed and comprehensive way. The book has been so thoroughly absorbed into critical history that people quote her insights – such as the contrasting imagery of mirrors and windows connected with inward-looking Hetty and outward-looking Dinah in Adam Bede – as received tradition without even knowing their source.Known pre-eminently as a scholar of the 19th century, Barbara wrote widely on fiction, poetry and drama, from Shakespeare to modernism. Her creative writing was an intrinsic and continuous part of her work. Of her three volumes of poetry, the stunning Dante’s Ghosts (2013), with its laconic and delicate lyricism, responding to the Inferno, stands out (she and her daughter Julia learned Italian together). As does the subtle Dorothea’s Daughter (2011), a collection of stories elicited from the loose ends, and unspoken possibilities, of great 19th-century novels.At the time of her death, Barbara had just delivered a study of Ivy Compton-Burnett to the press. Her 16th critical work, it shows her undiminished relish for writing, and a critical imagination as piercingly astute as ever: she had already begun another book, on Elizabeth Gaskell.When I first met Barbara, in 1964, I was an assistant lecturer at University College London and she a senior figure at Birkbeck, with a reputation for intellectual energy and glamour. The warmth of her friendship was immediate. She was a mentor and a mould-breaker. In the profoundly misogynistic male bastion of the University of London she worked buoyantly while bringing up two daughters, something almost unheard of in those days. UCL had three staff common rooms, a men’s, a “mixed” and a women’s – in descending order of magnificence and space. A feminist before second-wave feminism broke, she displayed breathtaking confidence.These successes were hard won. Her autobiography, Swansea Girl (1994), describes the poverty she experienced while growing up in her native city as well as the warmth of the Welsh culture to which, in early life, she was both committed and ambivalent (though in later life she had a cottage on the Gower peninsula). She was the daughter of Maurice Nathan, a sailor, and his wife Gladys (nee Abrahams), who worked in an insurance office and later as a barrister’s clerk. Barbara was uneasy with her grammar school education – her expensive uniform for the “snob” Swansea high school for girls was bought on the instalment system – and she did badly there. It made her feel “delinquent”, whereas she was “a bright girl from a poor family … sustained by domestic sacrifice and ambition, and travelling nervously up the social escalator”. A job in Woolworths “loomed as a possible fate”, but she got to UCL, where she gained a BA in 1947 and an MA in 1949, having married Ernest Hardy, a senior civil servant, in 1946.Her refusal to bow to English academic conventions gave her an extraordinary intellectual independence. Apart from a period as professor at Royal Holloway College (1965-70), Barbara taught and researched at Birkbeck, as a lecturer from 1951, and then as professor until 1989. The college’s dedication to providing university education for students who had missed out on higher education proved an ideal fit for her socialist and egalitarian values.She was a passionate teacher. She loved the zest for learning that Birkbeck’s mature students brought to their studies. Despite the many honours she received – visiting appointments, honorary degrees and professorships, fellowships (the Royal Society of Literature in 1997, the British Academy in 2006), lecture tours all over the world – teaching and loyalty to her students remained a priority. In later years, Barbara loved clothes and cherished beautiful things: her flat in south-west London was filled with oriental rugs, bowls, found objects and paintings by her daughter Kate.Ernest died in 1977. Barbara leaves her daughters, three grandchildren and a great-grandchild.• Barbara Hardy, literary scholar, born 27 June 1924; died 12 February 2016