In 2014, I co-edited a book you may have seen in the headlines last week: Syria Speaks, which made the news when a woman was detained after being seen reading it on a plane. It’s ironic that our book would see a reader suspected of being potentially radicalised; made up of pieces by more than 50 Syrian artists and writers, Syria Speaks: Art and Culture from the Frontline is one book that resoundingly counters radicalisation, with its message of nonviolence and emphasis on creative expression.Syrian satirists take puppet show into war-torn towns to mock Bashar al-Assad Since the book first came out, the situation for artists in Syria, like so many groups, has worsened. During and after the 2011 Syrian revolution, the majority of art, films and cultural expression has been made by anonymous collectives, posted on the internet. Nobody knew who or where they were, in or outside Syria. It was and remains dangerous for people to openly criticise the Assad regime and people took precautions. When interviewed, artists and film-makers would Skype with their cameras turned off, or wearing masks. The internet became a haven for political activism such as the anonymous art collective Al Shaab Alsori Aref Tareekh (The Syrian People Know Their Way), who produced political posters to download and print for mass demonstrations. It protected satire too, providing a venue for Masasit Mati, a film and theatre collective known for their sardonic puppet shows, and Aboud Saeed, AKA “The Smartest Guy on Facebook”, who has become famous from his Bukowski-esque accounts of life in war time.Syria Speaks was produced and inspired by this climate of secrecy and anonymity. Our book was about creativity in Syria, but five years on, few of our contributors still work there. Some remain, such as the collective Comic4 Syria, who release critical comic strips about the revolution and refugees via their Facebook page. Or activists from Ashra3 – “The Street” – which runs Syria’s mobile film festival and holds screenings in rebel-controlled areas. Some have even purposefully returned – such as Syria’s best-known novelist, Khaled Khalifa, who went back to Damascus earlier this year, after a 10-month fellowship at Harvard. As he told Arablit about his home country: “I could never bear to lose it.”Others simply had to lose it. Artists like Sulafa Hijazi: watching as family and friends were arrested and imprisoned in Damascus, she began working in digital illustration (with a click of a mouse, this medium can be quickly hidden away) – but ultimately, she left Syria in 2012, for Germany. Or the film-maker Ossama Mohammad, who released his disturbing documentary Silvered Water: Syria Self Portrait from exile in Paris. Another of our contributors, the intellectual Yassin al-Haj Saleh, never told us where he was when we were working on the book. Now in Istanbul, he in turn doesn’t know where his wife, human rights lawyer Samira Khalil, is; Khalil was kidnapped with colleagues from the Violations Documentation Center in Douma. Their fate remains unknown.‘The barbed wire mauled my back as I crawled between the two countries. Then I ran…’ For it is an uncertain time. The one positive consequence of the mass exodus of creatives from Syria has been an increased international interest in Syrian arts and writing. In 2014, Syrian graffiti was included as a “disobedient object” in an exhibition at London’s V&A. Works of nonfiction literature, such as The Crossing by Samar Yazbek and Burning Country: Syrians in Revolution and War by Robin Yassin-Kassab and Leila al-Shami, have been published around the world, revealing the Syria beyond the headlines. And in 2016 alone, Syrian documentary and design featured in an abecedarium at New York’s MoMA, the British Museum has collected works by Sulafa Hijazi, Al Shaab Alsori Aref Tareekh. And Comic4Syria for a new archive, and in September Avo Kaprealian’s film Houses Without Doors, about living in besieged Aleppo, will premiere at the Safar film festival in London. Dissident Syrian creatives, once hidden and far away, are now as close as the internet – or even the gallery or cinema down the road from you. So, in a time when Syria’s creative output is more accessible than ever, the west should not dismiss it as something threatening or alien – these are the voices that we should be listening to, as we consider Syria’s future.