Ask any stand-up comedian what they most love about their job and the chances are they’ll say the buzz of a good gig, the backstage camaraderie or the fact that we don’t have to get up early in the morning. What is unlikely to be high on their list is the constant travel: for every minute on stage we probably spend 10 in a car, bus or train.I drive to 99% of my gigs, which means I listen to an awful lot of radio (and, believe me, a lot of it really is awful). This means that I experience most live football through 5 Live’s commentaries. With the majority of my work being evenings and weekends, it means that most journeys are accompanied by a live match, whether it be a midweek league or European game, the new “Friday Night Football” or the more traditional, and ever rarer, three o’clock kick-off on a Saturday. If there’s a match on, I’ll listen to it. In fact, it’s got to the stage now where I prefer listening to football rather than watching it for a number of reasons.Team talks are a waste of time – and I heard hundreds of them as a professional For starters hearing a match being described is invariably more exciting: every time the ball goes anywhere near the penalty area you can sense the anticipation of the crowd, you can hear the “Oooohs” and “Aaaahs” of a near miss, the slight rise in the timbre of the commentator’s voice as the ball is launched towards the goal. Even the midfield tussles which make up the majority of a match become intriguing rather than dull and boring passages of play, as Jon Champion or Simon Brotherton describe the action or get the thoughts (and I use that word in the loosest of senses) of Steve Claridge.Radio is also a convenient medium. While I was at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival this year I was able to catch brief snippets of my beloved Ipswich Town, playing in the “Old Farm Derby”, while nipping backstage between acts at a show I was hosting; in 1996 I was able to listen to England’s rather fortunate win against Spain in the European Championship quarter-final despite sitting in the pews at a friend’s wedding. Watching a match on TV or on a laptop generally requires you to be sitting down, paying attention, but thanks to the radio I can be listening to the thrills of Burnley v Watford while travelling to Scunthorpe, or Leicester v Porto as I walk the dog.Football on the radio also avoids the visual assault of modern football, whether it be the migraine-inducing pitchside LED advertising hoardings or the latest revolting lime green and purple third kit that a team are wearing for no apparent reason. As the renowned journalist Alistair Cooke once said: “I prefer radio to TV because the pictures are better.” In your imagination a scruffy toe-poked goal after some penalty-box ping pong can be something worthy of Brazil 1970.'Even my 78-year-old father streams' – why football fans are switching off Listening to football is also a political act, a protest. Bar the licence fee, it’s effectively free. By not paying for a Sky or BT subscription, I feel as though I’m not complicit in the ridiculous financial hoopla of modern football and that my money is not going to some media mega-corporation. Football on the radio is a wonderful throwback to a football age which probably never existed outside of our nostalgia-addled brains. But, despite the rise of the Premier and Champions League and the marginalisation of the “lower leagues” (try listening out for League Two results on a Champions League night), it still sends a small shiver down my spine when I hear the outdated music of Sports Report on a Saturday afternoon. I’m instantly transported to my childhood, with memories of getting into my dad’s car and listening to the scores come in as we drove home from Portman Road.Admittedly, it’s not all good. For every Conor McNamara there’s an Alan Green, for every Jermaine Jenas there’s a Robbie Savage, but listening to football on the radio, for me, is one of life’s many pleasures. Just one piece of advice: change channel once the match has finished otherwise you might accidentally catch the idiotfest that is 6.06, and no one wants that.• This article appeared first in When Saturday Comes• Follow WSC and Tony Cowards on Twitter