It makes sense that model and photographer Yazemeenah Rossi’s muse is nature. Her sparse Malibu studio is decorated with rocks and crystals. The air is filled with meditation music. There is no TV. “We will sit on the floor,” she says, inviting me to sit cross-legged and barefoot. She brings some chai in a ceramic mug – one she made while taking classes during her New York years. She rests it on a round surface that makes a clanging sound. “This is an 18th-century gong from Cambodia,” she explains. “But who says it can’t be a table, too?” Rossi’s company is more like an audience with Yoda than, say, Kate Moss. You come away feeling like you’ve been at a yoga retreat. Perhaps she lives like a solitary divorcee. Or maybe she lives like a free-spirited teenager. It’s all a matter of perspective.“Every day is a blessing,” she says. “I divorced twice, I’m single, I couldn’t imagine 10 years ago I’d be so fulfilled.” She points at her futon, basic and unshared. “I’m in love,” she says. “In love without subject. When people see me they see that, even if they don’t know my life story. It gives them a desire to find a way themselves.”At 60 years of age, the grandmother of two didn’t think twice about taking her own self-portraits in lingerie she received from New York-based designers Land of Women earlier this year. She sent the shots direct to them, and they were so inspiring in their age-defying honesty that the company decided to shoot her – unedited – for their summer 2016 swimwear campaign.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yazmeennah wears: top and corset, price on request, bothloewe.com; earrings £220,marni.com. Photograph: Simon Emmett for the Observer“One day my Instagram went from 1,000 to 12,000 followers,” marvels Rossi, in her French accent. “Crazy, nonstop.” Rossi now has 26,700 Instagram followers and is renowned for her all-white hair and unretouched wrinkles, having spent her adult life challenging a youth-obsessed industry via campaigns for Marks & Spencer and JD Williams. I had this young guy in Dubai who said: ‘You’re more alive than my ex-girlfriend who is 23' Her Malibu studio is disrupted by the banging of local construction work, but she ignores it, flinging the balcony doors open. “I suntan naked here, nobody can see me,” she says. The fact is, Rossi has been ignoring unwanted noise forever, whether it be big fashion houses who said she was too old to be “sexy” or a US agent who advised she’d never make TV ads here. “Then I made four. I hope he saw them, ha!”Rossi has just begun to make sense of her own nomadic journey. Born in 1955 in Corsica, she was raised by her grandparents – their financial situation slightly better than her parents’. Her grandparents had no running water or electricity, but they ran a restaurant on the beach. “Can you imagine how amazing?” she asks. She recalls the river where they washed, her grandfather’s garden where he grew fruit and vegetables and her grandmother carrying water in a pot on her head. The water inspired her photography. Her first camera was gifted to her at the age of 11, when she eventually started to spend more time with her parents. “We didn’t have money for film. Even without it I’d click.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yazmeennah wears: dress £2,480, Miu Miu (matchesfashion.com); earrings £210,marni.com. Photograph: Simon Emmett for the ObserverSnapshots of nature were an escape from an estranged relationship with her parents, one defined by constant arguing. It worsened when she became pregnant at 16. She hid her pregnancy for five months, terrified her father would force her to abort. She married the father before the child was born and moved to Paris. By the age of 20 she’d had a second child. “For me [it felt like] I was in jail. My life was finished. Sometimes I’d say, ‘I would love to not have my kids’.” At 28 she began to realise that the pursuit of her own happiness was too important. “I couldn’t stay with a man I didn’t love just to pay my bills. So I divorced. Work came. When you make the right choice, the universe brings.” I’ve lost a lot of money because I refuse to do things that aren’t right for me Soon enough her sister, who worked in fashion retail, invited her to stand in as a last-minute model for one of her clients during Paris Fashion Week. “They gave me an envelope with my money, but it came up short. Imagine! I went back and fought to get my money.” Beginning a career in her forthright way, she spent 10 years working as a fittings model for Hermès and YSL. “I stood on high heels all day, while they made clothes on me and smoked. It was terrible, but I was thankful I could raise my kids.” One job was so awful she tore up a contract in front of the client’s face. “I’ve lost a lot of money because I refuse to do things that aren’t right for me.” She shrugs.Today’s fashion industry still glorifies youth, particularly in women, and sees them as less distinct when they reach their 40s and 50s. “My work as a model is just a part of it,” says Rossi. “I am a role model, I’m in touch with my individuality.” Her smooth skin is as vital as any 20-something’s. Her inner confidence comes from her celebration of imperfections. She shows off a brace she’s been wearing for six months. Her lower teeth have grown wayward. Her agents have advised her to break from pursuing work until she’s “better”, of course. She rolls her clear brown eyes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yazmeennah wears: shirt £500, pullover £750, and trousers £1,000, allmarni.com. Photograph: Simon Emmett for the ObserverRossi entered the industry at the age of 30, and her big breaks didn’t come until she moved to America. Arriving in New York first in 1999, and represented by Ford models, she was hired on print campaigns for US brands such as Bloomingdale’s, Barneys, J Crew and Bobbi Brown. This was despite her hair having already gone completely white. She unties her wet tresses and shows off blue-black roots that remain underneath thick grey. She never thought about dying it. “I’m passionate about what I’m doing. I have no time,” she says. “It’s beautiful. It’s silver!” Her eyebrows are speckled with white, too. She’s refused “a lot of money” to change it. This is not courage. This is simply who I am. If more models are authentic, it will impact people who see them Such “woman’s work” can be time-consuming, detracting from the pursuit of other goals. Rossi has refused plastic surgery, aside from having minor facial injections to erase blood vessels. The only thing she’d consider would be a neck lift. “Take advantage of how you are,” she says. “Do not destroy your capital.” Her secrets are a nutritious diet and daily yoga. She started Bikram in her 30s after years of windsurfing. “It gives me a wow feeling!”Sex, too, keeps her young. In 2007, Rossi left New York for California. Her second husband, an Algerian restaurateur, didn’t accompany her. “Life put us apart,” she says, lightly. Her sexual freedom is positively progressive. “Women feel guilty about masturbating. But if you’re not going outside to get it [sexual pleasure], how are you gonna get it?” she laughs. “I remember this young guy I had in Dubai who said: ‘You’re more alive than my ex-girlfriend who is 23.’ I said: ‘Because I have no inhibition.’ Women have to be comfortable.” She believes in having many relationships with men and says each of them has “awoken” a part of her. “This makes my relation[ship] very short and very empowering,” she laughs. “Men have this aura when they age. But when women have a similar power we are treated as cougar!” she says, shocked. “What is the word for men?” she asks.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yazmeennah wears: dress £1,950, and trousers £640, bothceline.com. Photograph: Simon Emmett for the ObserverIndeed, there is none. When Rossi’s swimsuit campaign launched, many of her model colleagues contacted her to say how “courageous” it was. “I said: ‘This is not courage. This is simply who I am.’ If more models are authentic, it will impact people who see them.”To this day she feels frustrated that high fashion houses don’t employ her to model to an older demographic of consumers. “I wear Dolce & Gabbana, and all that,” she says. “So why don’t they choose me? I’m pissed off, it’s a waste. I may be a certain age, but I have a sexy look. Sexy means alive. I’m alive!”In December, Rossi turns 61. “Life is just beginning and I don’t know what’s going to happen.” She has just finished a shoot for the Bellevue Collection and is headed to Sweden this month to work with KappAhl. Her major ambition right now, however, is acting classes and she hopes to secure on-screen roles so that she can show women her age “my truth”, wrinkles and all. “This is not about ego, or power,” she says. “It’s about being free.”Yazmeennah Rossi at Mrs Robinson; fashion editor Jo Jones; photographer’s assistant Sam Ford; digital tech by Tom Frimley; hair by Richard Scorer at Premier for Haringtons using L’Oréal; make-up by Pablo Rodriguez at CLM Hair and Make-Up using MAC Cosmetics; fashion assistant Billie Brand