“Twenty-five minutes. Be ambitious.” This was the brief I was given two years ago by Rambert when they asked me to make a work to celebrate the company’s 90th birthday in 2016. I had previously been a dancer with Rambert and left in 2013 to focus on choreography and producing. I have choreographed works inspired by music, sculpture, painting, architecture, literature and even a wallpaper collection. However, I wanted this new work to be more personal and at its core I wanted it to celebrate the richness that comes with freedom of movement.I was born in Silesia, a region in Poland that constantly changed hands between Poland and Germany up until the end of the second world war, and am part of a generation that grew up under martial law in the wake of the solidarity movement. I have vivid memories of the consequences of the west/east divide and Poland’s isolation – the rations, the “quests” to secure basic necessities, the absurdity of these situations and the humour that helped us cope.Some of my closest relatives had left Poland in the decades after the war and for years we did not know when we would see each other again. When the iron curtain came down it was the promise of peace and the freedom of movement between countries that mattered most to me. I wanted to live, learn and work where my abilities and talents would be the best match, where cities and people inspired me to stay.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rambert rehearse Flight. Photograph: Foteini Christofilopoulou/Foteini Christofilopoulou 2016In dance, I wanted to watch and work with artists I had admired from a distance for so long. Proud of my home country’s heritage, I did not want to be defined by nationality, race or religion. I lived and worked in Germany, Denmark, Singapore, Sweden and, since 2006, the UK.While I was away pursuing my professional ambitions, Poland fulfilled its aspiration to become a member of the EU. They did this without me, though secretly I like to think that some cultural advocacy by those living abroad might have helped to make the case.The inspirations behind the new work, Flight, include the aesthetics of mass movement and the crossover with the natural world – the swarms and seemingly chaotic, yet inherently synchronised patterns, of navigation.An important source for me was the work of artist, writer and film-maker Shaun Tan. His fantastical illustrated worlds convey the sense of arriving at a new place that is both strange and familiar. The work also inspired a choreographic composition, where each scene can tell its own story, the way you might look at a photo album.Early in the creative process I overheard a conversation between foreign construction workers on a London bus. It reminded me of a play by the late Polish dramatist Sławomir Mrożek, The Émigrés, in which two characters share a basement room in a house in an unnamed country that’s not their own. This study of contrasting, yet mutually dependent personalities reaffirmed my sense that what brings us together and what divides us goes beyond national traits and stereotypes. The play, and what I heard of the workers’ living conditions, became an important source of inspiration for the last section of Flight.This final scene can be performed by a cast of two women, two men or a mixed cast of female and male dancers. Breaking some of the habits within the choreographic language, and looking at how the gender roles can be balanced, was an important part of my process. I hope to guide the viewer towards an interpretation that goes beyond the immediate, romantic associations we commonly share when watching a couple perform an emotionally charged sequence.  Talent travels – there are 12 nationalities among Rambert’s 22 dancers, including seven different EU countries Other experiences from my travels have influenced and helped to inform Flight. The first was the memory and atmosphere of a holding room or waiting room, a sort of limbo between the home you have left behind and the unknown stretching out before you. Working with composer Kate Whitley, I wanted to translate this feeling by layering the meditative, almost lethargic pace of these spaces with the dynamism of everyday frenetic activity that keeps us alive.I was also conscious of the borders we create through the endless replacement of one set of limitations with another. Flight uses these shifting environments, where one space opens up as another one shuts its doors, with the help of a set made up of moving panels and projections of urban and natural environments designed by Luke Halls.Last are my own reflections on the shifting perspectives within the UK and the rest of Europe. How quickly and unexpectedly the political context in which this work has been made has evolved. I finished choreographing Flight on the day that the outcome of the UK EU referendum was announced.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shifting perspectives … Malgorzata Dzierzon. Photograph: Renaud WiserDance as a form of expression has a unique ability to cross borders. Of the artists you see on stage, many were born and trained in the UK, others bring their talents and experience from overseas. Rambert itself was founded by a Polish immigrant Marie Rambert in 1926. Today, there are 12 different nationalities among Rambert’s 22 dancers, including seven different EU countries. Their diversity brings a unique perspective, skill, personality and experience.Flight is not a political statement. Twenty-five minutes of choreography is not a space vast enough to tell everyone’s story. But my ambition for the piece is to create and hold a place where one is free to imagine and dream beyond physical borders and our own limitations. • Flight is part of a Rambert triple bill at the Lowry, Salford, 28–30 September, and at Sadler’s Wells, London EC1R, as part of Contemporaries, 7–8 November. rambert.org.uk.