Five years ago, I was invited to Donetsk in Ukraine for a month-long residency, overseen by my all-time hero Boris Mikhailov. Mother and child is a classic artistic subject, and I wanted to do my own interpretation of it. In Donetsk, there were a lot of young families who’d married in their early 20s. The husband would go out to work and the wife would look after the children. I was given an assistant, Ulya, who introduced me to her friends. We’d go to their houses and just start experimenting. They were so open – I could explore anything.I’d just come out of a 12-year relationship and was having a nervous breakdown. But Ukraine welcomed me in. Even though I’m a guest in someone’s house, I do tend to take over. I rearrange things and add things and invite them back in to what I’ve created. And then they’re insecure. I think I’ve taken the best photographs of my career that way. You get this immediate, rather human response to not being respected, which is really fun.There has always been a slightly dislocated look to my photos. I eventually realised it was because I was adopted at birth. In this image, there’s an idea of separation – of a child and a mother apart. It’s a reference to the mother I still don’t know, though there is a suggestion that I could – given the presence of the arm. All photography is autobiographical, but at the time I wasn’t aware of what I was doing.Adam Hinton's best photograph: an artist painting amid the Kiev uprising It’s helpful, now, to know what my subconscious is doing. But I’m not “cured”. I haven’t started taking photographs that make people say: “Ooh, that’s pretty.” Someone once said I was like Tiny Tim looking through the window at other people. That’s a perfect description for a photographer: you’re constantly analysing other lives in relation to your own.I’m 50 and from a generation that can’t easily contact birth parents. I’ve sat in one of those sad counselling rooms, with a half-dead pot plant, looking at my file. I got in touch with my mother through a third party, but I didn’t get any further response. I had to accept that was as far as she was prepared to go. It’s not clear, in this shot, whether the mother is moving towards the child or away. I also took pictures of the mother with the child but, even though they’re beautiful, I didn’t feel they were successful or interesting. Mikhailov loved the project. He said this wonderful, creepy thing: that I “was the skeleton from which all the other meat hung”; that my photos were the core of what we were all doing in photography. Some of my shots were made into giant lightboxes and exhibited in this amazing converted factory. It’s now used by the rebels in the civil war as a prison camp. My light boxes are trapped inside.The charcoal drawing on the back wall is of the child’s parents, so you do get to meet them, in a slightly fictitious way. I’m also drawn to that bad wiring on the wall, though I haven’t psychoanalysed it yet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard AnsettRichard Ansett’s CVBorn: Norwich, 1966.Studied: Kent Institute of Art and Design.Influences: Otto Dix, Boris Mikhailov, Cindy Sherman, Sally Mann, Irving Penn, Bill Brandt, Jan van Eyck’s The Arnolfini Portrait.High point: “The work in the Ukraine. I’ve yet to match it for how much I learned.”Low point: “I briefly lost my eyesight to shingles, and I was unable to focus for about a year. It was very scary.”Top tip: “Trust that what you’re doing is somehow autobiographical. And be self-aware.”