Hometown: North London.The lineup: Poppy Hankin (vocals, guitar), Iris McConnell (drums), Sophie Moss (bass). The background: Girl Ray make sweetly sour lo-fi heartache pop with vocals wavering between cool and callow and songwriting ambitions towards the accomplished, the greats. Their latest single, Stupid Things – “about crushing really hard on someone, and finding myself doing fucking ridiculous things, like watching films that they mentioned fleetingly or ordering their favourite drink at a bar”, according to songwriter Hankin – could be a cover version of a Carole King song by a C86-era indie band. Something about the quality of the production, the sound, the way the instruments are played and the spaces between them, suggests 1972. “It wasn’t purposefully indie or lo-fi,” explains Hankin, who met the other Girl Ray-ers at Finchley’s Fortismere school, where they were a few years below Jess Glynne (and a few decades below Ray Davies of the Kinks). “We weren’t exactly trying hard to do it, that’s just how I wrote the song and the way it was produced.” Lovers of 1972 might recognise the first two seconds of the piano intro, a recreation of the (guitar) opening to Julie Burchill’s all-time favourite song. “We gave a copy of Todd Rundgren’s I Saw the Light to the mixing guy as reference. We love Todd.”Girl Ray came together through a shared love of pop from Rundgren to Cate Le Bon and a shared loathing of “the stuff the girls in our class liked, like talking about boys and Hollister, which we thought was expensive and quite disgusting,” Hankin says. “We were in our own world. We didn’t really talk to each other much, but in a way that’s what we had in common.”“That and just being really cool,” deadpans drummer McConnell. “Iris is joking,” Hankin adds, just in case. “No, I’m not,” McConnell insists. “I thought I was cool and that Poppy was cool so I thought we should be friends. That’s how friendship works.” Naming themselves punningly after the avant garde artist Man Ray, they performed their first gig in south London. “It was absolutely terrible,” Hankin says. “We were so out of tune.” “Plus,” McConnell continues, “we were really sweaty cos we were so anxious, probably why we can be seen in the video, shaking.” She pauses. “If that video ever gets out, I’ll have a mental breakdown.”Still, Girl Ray carried on, buoyed by their “Flight of the Conchords-style meetings” during which they would detail their intentions. “I wanted Poppy to write songs about me being a cool skateboarder, and racism,” McConnell recalls. “We’re a bit more casual than that now.” Soon, Moshi Moshi – the small label that has released records by Florence + the Machine, Hot Chip and Lykke Li – signed them, and the band began working on their debut album, due out this summer. It will be a heartbreak epic, promise Girl Ray, and although they can’t yet reveal the title, lyrics such as “I’m so down”, the wonderful opening line to Stupid Things, offers a sizeable clue. “It’s a pretty miserable album,” Hankin says. “I’ve been living the reality. When you’re miserable, you can only write miserable songs.”Other Girl Ray tracks include Trouble – about “turning into someone you don’t like” – with its popping bassline and pop harmonies over endearingly ramshackle percussion; the dolorous Where Am I Now, on which you can hear why Hankin, all false-coloured eyes and blank intonation, has been described as the Finchley Nico; and I’ll Make This Fun which rhymes “sick of it” with “thick of it”. Should be a good album. Try and see them live, too; they’ve even stopped shaking, although don’t expect rock’n’roll antics: “Going to McDonald’s is the best bit for me,” McConnell says. “We’re usually in bed by 11.”Having already toured with Slow Club and Ezra Furman, Girl Ray are currently on tour with Moshi Moshi labelmates Teleman. They’ve been confirmed for the BBC Radio 6 Music festival in Glasgow on 24 March, will headline their biggest London show to date on 23 May at the Lexington and will appear at this year’s Green Man and End of the Road festivals. On the agenda are wan jangles, and fun, natural fun. “Fun to us is being incredibly silly, our weird private jokes,” McConnell confides. “Like, we do funny accents with each other 24/7. Doing an Australian accent is the height of our humour. Sophie’s speciality humour-wise is she comes up with ‘would you rather?’ scenarios. Those make us laugh a lot.”Listeners to Girl Ray’s music, and their Dear Diary lyrics, are more likely to wince. Are they about any one person in particular? “No, a whole heap,” Hankin replies. “I hate everyone. Don’t print that.”The buzz: “Girl Ray craft subtle, winsome songs about teenage romance and youthful angst.”The truth: Make you see the light. Most likely to: Break your heart. Least likely to: Have fries with that. What to buy: Stupid Things is released via Moshi Moshi.File next to: The Pipettes, Veronica Falls, Cate Le Bon, Whitney. Link: soundcloud.com/girlrayOnes to watch: Baba Ali Live, Jungle Brown, Glassio, Husky Loops, the Physics House Band. 