Plans for a new Museum of London on the site of derelict Smithfield market buildings have received a £180m boost by the City and the mayor.The City of London Corporation announced it would give £110m towards the project’s £250m cost. The mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, also pledged £70m.Khan said the museum would be a jewel in London’s crown. “From the outset of my mayoralty, I pledged to make culture a core priority and I’m proud that this is the biggest ever cultural investment made by any mayor of London to date,” he said.“The world’s greatest city deserves the world’s greatest museum, which is why I’m delighted to announce £70m of funding for the new Museum of London.”The museum was established in 1976 and tells the capital’s story from 450,000BC to the present. It has more than 6m objects and is held in huge regard but has had a longstanding problem: location. It is housed above a busy roundabout near the Barbican and can be difficult to find unless you know where you are going. It also desperately needs more space.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The museum’s present home, at London Wall near the Barbican. Photograph: LatitudeStock - David Williams/Getty Images/Gallo ImagesThe plan is to move it to West Smithfield, next to the new transport hub being created at Farringdon because of Crossrail.The new building would save what are the last remaining derelict Victorian structures in central London and give the museum 8,000sq m (86,000sq ft) of permanent gallery space and 1,500sq m of temporary exhibition space.Using a design by architects Stanton Williams and Asif Khan, the plan is to retain much of the fabric of the original market buildings. The museum entrance would be filled with light, architects say, because of a “landmark dome” while spiral escalators would go down to a vast underground chamber housing the galleries.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The architects’ view of the entrance to the new museum. Photograph: Malcolm Reading Consultants\Stanton WilliamsThe museum hopes it will double its number of annual visitors from 1 million to 2 million.Mark Boleat, the chairman of the City’s policy and resources committee, said: “It is widely recognised that the current building at London Wall does not allow the museum to expand and flourish, and that the former market buildings are in a poor state of repair. “The approval of this significant contribution makes good business sense and is a major step forward towards the creation of a new Museum of London, both iconic in design and unparalleled in the way in which it tells the capital’s vibrant history.”The museum’s director, Sharon Ament, said the pledges were “fantastic news” which provided a springboard for the fundraising drive.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharon Ament in the derelict West Smithfield buildings. Photograph: Martin Godwin for the Guardian“Working with our design team we can now move forward confidently with detailed plans for the new museum and remain firmly on target to open the new museum in 2022.”The museum hopes to make its planning application in 2018.The departure of the Museum of London from the London Wall site would then free up the area for a proposed new concert hall, a new home for the London Symphony Orchestra under Sir Simon Rattle. That plan is still a long way off with Rattle last week acknowledging it was an if, not a when.