Clitoral injections and armpit nappies: what are the worst Oscar goody bag gifts? Oscar nominees in this year’s major categories will go home with a gift bag worth $200,000, featuring such essential items as a breast lift, sex toy and 15-day walking tour of Japan.All acting and directing nominees will receive the luxury goodie bag from Los Angeles firm Distinctive Assets, which works with companies hoping to capitalise on the fame of Oscar hopefuls. The bag’s value this year is a record – last year it featured items worth a measly $125,000.The most expensive inclusion for 2016 is a 10-day first class trip to Israel ($55,000), with that Japanese walking tour coming in at $45,000. The package also features a year’s worth of unlimited Audi car rentals, worth $45,000, and a lifetime supply of Lizora skin creams, worth $31,200. Female nominees will also receive a $250 “arouser” offering “gentle suction and stimulation”.Distinctive Assets (@DAssets)How about a peek inside our “Everyone Wins” Nominee Gift Bag in honor of the OSCARS®? Thanks @thedailybeast! https://t.co/jOkSvBOXrH #oscarsFebruary 5, 2016Alejandro González Iñárritu's DGA win proves Oscars race is unpredictable Best actor favourite Leonardo DiCaprio will presumably be unmoved by the “vampire breast lift” on offer, worth $1,900, a procedure that uses the patient’s own blood to achieve “rounder cleavage without implants” and is said to be the latest thing in LA. But he might perhaps consider $5,530 worth of laser skin therapy after all that time suffering in grim weather conditions on set of The Revenant. And Distinctive Assets has also kindly included a $249.99 Haze Dual V3 Vaporizer should the actor wish to continue his e-cigarette habit.As well as the above, DiCaprio could well be going home with a statuette even if he fails to emerge victorious on 28 February at the Dolby theatre in Los Angeles. Metro reports that more than 100 fans in the Yakutia region of Siberia have pooled silver and gold valuables to be melted down for a 12” figurine as part of a campaign to reward the 41-year-old actor for his long and successful career.“Yakutia praises high-quality cinema and considers DiCaprio to be an actor who can inspire and delight his audiences,” Tatyana Yegorova, the woman behind the Oscar for Leo campaign, told Russian news agency Tass. “Since the movie is a mass art form, aimed at the broad masses, we believe that viewers have a right to give this prize,” she added.Oscars goodie bag offers a lift, while Hail Caesar! falls – the Dailies film podcast DiCaprio is widely expected to take home his first Oscar later this month for his turn as a vengeful fur trapper in Alejandro G Iñárritu’s The Revenant, having been nominated on four different previous occasions for acting prizes. The harrowing western this weekend became the highest-grossing 18 plus-rated film in Russian box office history, according to the Hollywood Reporter, with more than 1.1bn rubles ($14.6m) in receipts.