One Child9pm, BBC2Debut of an ambitious miniseries by Guy Hibbert, best known for writing the TV films Five Minutes of Heaven and Omagh. Mei (Katie Leung) is a young Chinese-born woman who has been raised by adoptive parents in Britain. The first she hears from her birth family in Guangzhou is a request to come “home” to help the brother she has never met, who is facing execution for a crime he didn’t commit. It’s both an effective thriller, and a wider parable of the mutual bewilderment that often characterises relations between east and west. Andrew MuellerThe Great Sport Relief Bake Off8pm, BBC1Ed Byrne presents the third of four floury skirmishes between another batch of nervy celebs. Ex-Ginger Spice Geri Horner, 90s poppet Louise Redknapp, war correspondent John Simpson and footballer-turned-pundit Jermaine Jenas all enter the tent like kids waiting to see the headteacher. They begin with freeform savoury tarts made without tins, and soggy the bottoms at their peril. The showstopper is particularly dastardly, requiring 3D biscuit depictions of famous sporting events. Julia RaesideMidsomer Murders8pm, ITVThe soul of middle England is a dark place. How else to explain the enduring popularity of Midsomer and its grotesquely imaginative slayings? On which subject, the horse-assisted murder of a local squire’s son, which begins tonight’s proceedings, is at the very least unnecessarily complicated. No matter: Barnaby and Nelson still put on their best serious faces as they investigate a case involving family secrets. In the meantime, light relief is offered by Sykes the dog’s refusal to go into kennels so the Barnabys can go on holiday. Jonathan WrightViolent Child, Desperate Parents9pm, Channel 5While the likes of Supernanny have long propagated a mix of reverse psychology and general sternness to combat bad behaviour, counsellor Mandy Saligari takes things a step further by providing therapy for troubled kids on screen. This week, she steps in to help a single mum who is struggling with her eight-year-old son’s behaviour. As voyeuristic as it sounds, but also the perfect vehicle for the sorts of major transformations that reality docs are ultimately made for. Hannah J DaviesThe 1009pm, E4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marie Avgeropoulos in The 100. Photograph: Warner BrothersThe Hunger Games-esque drama returns for a third run, with the action picking up three months on from the conclusion to season two. Bellamy leads a search party to find the rest of the Ark, but trouble ensues when they’re confronted by members of the enemy Ice Nation. A twisty slice of dystopia, with just the right amount of teen-targeting fodder in the form of umpteen fight scenes and a cameo from Canadian pop star Shawn Mendes. HJD10,000 BC: Two Tribes – the Final11pm, Channel 5As the tribes reach the final part of their challenge, wilderness motivator Klint Janulis is impressed that they’ve got the hang of hunting and foraging. Now he challenges them to “do something epic” that will become their legacy. There’s also the chance to reflect on what their experience in 10,000 BC has taught them about life, with a tearful Dan realising he shouldn’t have dumped his long-term girlfriend and George letting out his emotions. Then they’re off to a hotel to check their Facebook accounts. Hannah VerdierLimitless9pm, Sky1This double bill of the crime drama based on the 2011 film of the same name shows signs of plateauing into routine, credence-busting superhero shtick by the second episode. That said, the opener gives it the best possible start, establishing protagonist Brian Finch (Jake McDorman) as an engaging guy to root for. An underachiever, he discovers he is immune to the side effects of a drug that hugely expands his mental capacities. His first job, however, is to evade FBI agents on a false murder rap. David StubbsFILM CHOICETotal Recall(Paul Verhoeven, 1990) 10pm, ITV4This first spectacular, mega-budget adaptation of Philip K Dick’s mind-bending tale is altogether smarter and more fun than the plodding 2012 remake. Arnold Schwarzenegger is at the top of his game as an ostensibly ordinary (though very large) labourer who comes to recall that he was once a secret agent and powerful corporate forces have been messing with his mind. Cue dizzying paranoid delusions and state-of-the-art violence. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportSnowboard Big Air Action from Val d’Isère6pm, ESPNChampions League Football: Roma v Real MadridThe 2014 winners head to the Stadio Olimpico. Gent v Wolfsburg airs on BT Sport 2. 7pm, BT Sport EuropeATP Tennis: Rio OpenThird day of the ATP 500 event, won last year by David Ferrer. 7pm, Sky Sports 1European Tour Golf: Maybank Championship MalaysiaDebut of the tournament, held at the Kuala Lumpur Golf and Country Club. 4am, Sky Sports 4