On whether white people understand his art“No, of course they don’t. How many black people understand? White people are very good at categorising things – and if you tell them anything they’ll remember it, write books about it. But understand? You have to live a life to understand it. Tourists just pass through.” To Carol Cooper, the Face, June 1983.Prince, superstar and pioneer of American music, dies aged 57 On Ronald Reagan“Thank God we got a better President now, with bigger balls than Carter. I think Reagan’s a lot better. Just for the power he represents, if nothing else. Because that also means as far as other countries are concerned.” To Chris Salewicz, NME, June 1981On the art of performance“You can’t go out there unless you’ve got the show completely in shape. It can look pretty wild onstage, but everyone knows exactly where they’re supposed to be. That was a lesson I had to learn from when I was starting out. When we first went out behind 1999, The Time, who were opening for us, beat us up every night. They would laugh about it; it was a joke to them. Our show wasn’t together. I had to stop the tour and get things tightened up. Now me and the band have a certain relationship with each other, and every night we make the audience part of that.” To Anthony DeCurtis, the Word, June 2004Prince: ‘Transcendence. That’s what you want. When that happens – Oh, boy' On his mother’s aspirations for him“She wanted me to go to school, go to college – she sent me to a bunch of different schools. I always had a pretty high academic level, I guess...She always tried to send me to the best schools, but that was pretty much my second interest. I didn’t really care about that as much as I did about playing. I think music is what broke her and my father up, and I don’t think she wanted that for me...Musicians, depending on how serious they are, they’re really moody. Sometimes they need a lotta space, they want everything just right sometimes, y’know. My father was a great deal like that, and my mother didn’t give him a lotta space. She wanted a husband per se.” To Andy Schwartz, New York Rocker, June 1981On seeking control of his music from his record company“One time in London I walked up to Michael Stipe. I said, ‘Do you own your masters?’ No, I didn’t say hello. He looked scared. He started stuttering. He said, ‘I don’t know.’ I said, ‘You need to and you should help me get mine.’ He just said, ‘Have a nice day.’ That was it.” To Phil Sutcliffe, Q, September 1988Prince – a life in pictures On Islam“It’s fun being in Islamic countries, to know there’s only one religion. There’s order. You wear a burqa. There’s no choice. People are happy with that.” To Dorian Lynskey, the Guardian, June 2011On the music of the future“In the future, I might be interactive. You might be able to access me and tell me what to play.” To Adrian Deevoy, Q, June 1994On critics“I love critics. Because they love me. It’s not a joke. They care. See, everybody knows when somebody’s lazy, and now, with the internet, it’s impossible for a writer to be lazy because everybody will pick up on it. In the past, they said some stuff that was out of line, so I just didn’t have anything to do with them. Now it gets embarrassing to say something untrue, because you put it online and everyone knows about it, so it’s better to tell the truth.” To Alexis Petridis, the Guardian, November 2015      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prince in 1986. Photograph: Pascal George/AFP/Getty ImagesOn himself“I’m no different to anyone. Yes, I have fame and wealth and talent, but I certainly don’t consider myself any better than anyone who has no fame, wealth or talent. People fascinate me. They’re amazing! Life fascinates me! And I’m no more fascinated by my own life than by anyone else’s.” To Sylvia Patterson, NME, 1996On the internet“The internet’s completely over. I don’t see why I should give my new music to iTunes or anyone else. They won’t pay me an advance for it and then they get angry when they can’t get it. The internet’s like MTV. At one time MTV was hip and suddenly it became outdated. Anyway, all these computers and digital gadgets are no good. They just fill your head with numbers and that can’t be good for you.” To Peter Willis, Daily Mirror, July 2010On working in private“It’s a way of cutting the chaos off, cutting off the outside voices. I heard ‘Prince is crazy’ so much that it had an effect on me. So one day I said, ‘Let me just check out.’ Here there is solitude, silence – I like to stay in this controlled environment. People say I’m out of touch, but I’ll do twenty-five or thirty more albums – I’m gonna catch up with Sinatra – so you tell me who’s out of touch. One thing I ain’t gonna run out of is music.” To Details magazine, November 1998