Waterstones children’s book prize 2016 shortlists - in pictures A debut novel about a comics-obsessed 11-year-old who is annoyed when his older brother is given powers by an alien to help save two universes has won the £5,000 Waterstones prize.My Brother is a Superhero by screenwriter David Solomons took the best younger fiction award then beat a picture book and a teen novel - both also debut works - to win the overall prize.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Florentyna Martin, Waterstones children’s buyer, said: “My Brother is a Superhero is that rare thing; a hugely funny book for young readers that is also rip-roaringly exciting. It is infused with the spirit of larger than life heroes and colourful comic book trivia that enthrals younger readers and delights superhero fans of all ages, yet at its heart is a touching relationship between siblings.”David Solomons's top 10 superheroes of questionable ability On the Guardian children’s books site, young reviewer The Vampire’s Assistant said: “If I were to give this book a rating I would give it a 9/10 because of the illustrations, the plot and the humour. This is good because it is David Solomons’s first novel and I hope he writes a sequel.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Litchfield, author and illustrator of The Bear and the Piano.My Brother is a Superhero beat the winner of the best illustrated book category, The Bear and the Piano by David Litchfield. It tells the story of a young bear who stumbles upon something he has never seen before in the forest. As time passes, he teaches himself how to play the strange instrument. Fame and fortune follow, but he misses the friends and family he has left behind.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lisa Williamson, author of The Art of Being Normal.The winner in the best older fiction category was Lisa Williamson with The Art of Being Normal. A former Guardian children’s books site teen book club book, it tells of two boys both with secrets: one wants to be a girl, the other wants to be invisible, and the unlikely friendship they strike up. Free read! The Art of Being Normal by Lisa Williamson The Waterstones Children’s Book Prize, now in its 12th year, champions new and emerging talent in children’s writing and is unique in that it is voted for solely by booksellers. David Solomons was given his prize by children’s laureate Chris Riddell at a ceremony at Waterstones Piccadilly in London this evening.