More than 10 million people tuned in to the launch night of Strictly Come Dancing 2016 on BBC1, the biggest audience yet for a series debut and an average of 600,000 more than last year. The launch on Saturday, in which celebrity contestants including Ed Balls, Anastacia and Will Young were paired with professional dancers, attracted an average of 9.3 million viewers (46.4 % share) and a peak of 10.1 million. Last year an average of 8.7 million tuned in.The figures come after The X Factor’s opening programme last weekend saw its lowest launch ratings in 10 years. Despite a revamp by Simon Cowell, its launch show was watched by 6.8 million (34% share), with a peak of 7.5 million.Strictly beat this Saturday’s episode of The X Factor, which was watched by 8.3 million viewers (39%) and peaked at 9.2 million. The 14th UK series of the ballroom dancing show, which also beat The X Factor in last year’s ratings, resumes in three weeks when the live shows start. Strictly’s blockbusting viewing figures come just days after The Great British Bake Off pulled in 10.14 million viewers – almost half of those watching television in the UK between 8pm and 9pm – for the second episode in its latest series. It was the most-watched second episode ever for the programme.The Great British Bake Off draws record launch audience However, the success of Strictly has been a double-edged sword for the BBC, leading to rows over whether the publicly funded broadcaster is stifling the competition. Earlier this year, a public outcry apparently forced John Whittingdale, then the culture secretary, to backtrack over proposals previously aired in the press to ban the BBC from scheduling big-hitting productions such as Strictly head-to-head with flagship programmes on its commercial rival, ITV. A government source quoted in the Mail on Sunday at the time said it would be “obvious when ITV had a flagship programme they were hoping to get high ratings for and where it would be unfair for the BBC to take it on head-to-head”.Whittingdale, who has since been replaced in the cabinet’s culture brief by Karen Bradley, in May denied making a U-turn after speculated restrictions on the BBC’s scheduling failed to materialise in a white paper on the future of the state-funded broadcaster. He told MPs those who raised concerns about his plans for the BBC were “leftwing luvvies”.