1 America After The FallThe Wall Street crash cast a long shadow on the American imagination. In the 1930s, Walker Evans photographed the faces of poverty and Grant Wood painted images of a spartan American identity. Younger artists were saved from starvation by Roosevelt’s ambitious social programme and widespread commissioning of public art. Jackson Pollock and his generation would be inspired by these public murals to paint abstractions on a grand scale. This should be a fascinating insight into the difficult birth of modern American art.Royal Academy, W1, 25 February to 4 June2 SpeakThe Serpentine is celebrating the living influence of the late British conceptual artist John Latham, whose activities ranged from eating and burning books to meditating on the nature of time. Latham’s own art is surveyed at the Serpentine gallery (2 March to 21 May), while this exhibition explores how his radical ideas echo in the art of the 21st century: Douglas Gordon, Laure Prouvost, Tania Bruguera and Cally Spooner all share Latham’s iconoclasm and appetite for experiment. Yet Latham had a dadaist spirit of destruction, so perhaps making him into an art-historical icon is a false way to remember him.Serpentine Sackler Gallery, W2, 2 March to 21 May3 Bacon To DoigFrancis Bacon’s naked 1966 portrait of his friend Henrietta Moraes lying on a bed with her feet towards us, her face an ape-like mask, her flesh blackened in places as if by disease, is a masterpiece of disturbing decadence. It stars in this ambitious survey of modern British art that also includes works by Lucian Freud and David Hockney. It reveals the panache of modern British art at its best.National Museum Cardiff, to 31 January 20184 Places Of The MindWatercolour was taken to new heights of expression, suggestion and even abstraction by Britain’s great Romantic visionary, JMW Turner, but what happened in this subtle medium after his death? This exhibition of British watercolours from 1850 to 1950 might offer a fresh perspective, with Whistler, Sargent, Nash and Sutherland among those dreaming of green fields. British Museum, WC1, to 27 August5 GF Watts: Monumental MuralsVictorian art at its most industrious has a permanent home at the Watts Gallery’s Artists’ Village, where GF Watts lived and where his efforts to regenerate the community are still preserved. Its latest exhibition looks at Watts’s colossal murals depicting Greek mythology. Watts Gallery, Guildford, 28 February to 5 November