It’s long been clear that David Bowie’s was a polymath, an artist as much as a musician, that “chameleon, comedian, Corinthian and caricature”, he wrote of in his 1971 song “The Bewlay Brothers”. But what can we make of his literary legacy, of his influences and output as a writer?David Bowie obituary It started and ended in a theatrical tradition. “When I was a teenager,” he said in 2000, “I had it in mind that I would be a creator of musicals.” And there are traces of the native talents of Lionel Bart and Anthony Newley in his earliest songs. In another life he might have ended up at London’s Theatre Royal Stratford East or the Royal Court. The lyrics on his 1967 debut album David Bowie are a series of vignettes that seem destined for the stage: a child-loving ex-soldier is accused of paedophilia, a lesbian and/or trans man looks back on how she joined the army by passing as a man. His material was outre even then, but his failure to attract mainstream musical theatre merely pushed him into further experimentation.He then worked with Lindsey Kemp, mime artist and theatre director, honing some skills in non-verbal expression. But learning mime did not stem his aptitude for words; it gave him a whole new vocabulary. Claiming his lineage from Shakespeare’s favourite clown William Kempe, Lindsey mentored him in the deep traditions of the stage as well as avant-garde theatre. Kemp’s adaptation of Jean Genet’s Our Lady of the Flowers clearly turned young Bowie on to that great dramatist and poet of the gutter, as he would later acknowledge in his 1972 paean to decadence, “The Jean Genie”.He began to develop a science fiction sensibility, drawing on the New Wave SF movement of Michael Moorcock and JG Ballard, other writers who used the genre such as Anthony Burgess and William S Burroughs, and an older fantasy tradition found in HP Lovecraft and Edward Bulwer-Lytton (whose The Coming Race is name-checked in “Oh You Pretty Things”, 1971). The stage was set for a great SF rock’n’roll musical, and, indeed, that is what 1972’s The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars was intended to be, with Bowie as writer rather than performer. But casting himself in the lead propelled him into true stardom. Kemp designed the groundbreaking show in which there were elements of Japanese kabuki, Italian commedia dell’arte, snatches of Jacques Brel; but a solid tradition of English stage shines through. The coup de theatre is the finale of “Rock’n’Roll Suicide”, where the dying star reaches out to the audience, imploring: “Gimme your hands, ’cause you’re wonderful”, in a clear echo of Puck’s last words, a call for applause, in A Midsummer Night’s Dream (first uttered by William Kempe): “Give me your hands, if we be friends / And Robin shall restore amends.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bowie in Lindsay Kemp’s production of Pierrot in Turquoise or The Looking Glass Murders. Photograph: Scottish TelevisionLike all good authors, Bowie was always ready to kill his darlings, but murdering Ziggy Stardust on stage gained him instant mystique and a trademark modus operandi. After a brief stint as Aladdin Sane, his next writing project was a theatrical adaptation of George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four, abandoned when Sonia Orwell denied the rights. The songs that remain are rather wonderful, particularly the soaring “Big Brother” and the plaintively haunting “We Are the Dead”. They end up on the second side of Diamond Dogs (1974), his darkest, most apocalyptic album.But by now his life seems to have entered into a dangerous dramaturgy. Much of the 1970s saw a series of doomed characters in search of a homicidal author. Lost in a tailspin of drugs and paranoia in Los Angeles, each successive assassination merely brought him closer to killing himself. He needed artistic salvation as much as anything.“The European canon is here,” he sings on “Station to Station” (1976), boldly stating a new intention, a return from America to the Old World, to Germany where he would compose his Berlin Trilogy. Much is rightly made of his formal experiments in music at this time, using influences of Krautrock bands such as Can, Faust and Kraftwerk. But he was also exploring the artistic and literary legacy of German expressionism. The culmination of this German period saw him playing the title role in the 1982 BBC2 adaptation of Bertolt Brecht’s play Baal. In a masterly and often forgotten interpretation, Bowie completely embodies the callous, debauched and sexually ambiguous balladeer Baal, a character who anticipates his own creation of “leper-messiah” Ziggy. He certainly impressed the translator and leading Brecht scholar John Willett, who writes: “He understood the play and had thought about it, and it was my impression that he knew more about Germany as a whole and Brecht’s ambience in particular than anyone except possibly Marks [the producer] and myself.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bowie’s Diamond Dogs album cover (1974)And here’s where I come in. Just as I had followed every literary reference in Bowie’s output from “The Jean Genie” (aged 11, I was looking up “genet”) so I sought out Brecht at the very time I was trying to write myself. Threepenny Novel became the initial influence on my first novel The Long Firm, and I like to think it was its Brechtian qualities that Bowie admired when he came to praise it. But, of course, I kid myself that I might be part of a canon. Like all great writers, Bowie was a furious reader, so much so that when he issued his official reading list in 2013, I didn’t even make the top 100 (ah, such fleeting glory … ).The list is wonderfully eclectic, everything from the Beano to Transcendental Magic: Its Doctrine and Ritual by Eliphas Lévi. Of British novelists, Orwell is there, as is Burgess and Bulwer-Lytton, and others he would have read growing up: John Braine, Keith Waterhouse and Muriel Spark. His own contemporaries are well represented: Ackroyd, Amis, Chatwin, McEwan and, of course, Angela Carter. Of my generation, the ones he influenced as mere teenagers when he first came on the scene, there are Sarah Waters and Rupert Thomson. Worthy choices both, particularly Thomson, something of a Thin White Duke of British fiction, sustaining a long career by constantly changing the way he writes. The rest of us simply owe Bowie for showing us all that work that never made it on the curriculum.And in the last few weeks of his life the musical Lazarus opened off-Broadway, directed by Ivo van Hove, with his songs and a book by Enda Walsh. He gives his own swansong on the video of the title song, an astonishing performance, seemingly from the grave. “A farewell gift,” as producer and long-time collaborator Tony Visconti put it, “for now it is appropriate to cry.”And applaud.“Give me your hands … ”