As a parent, I have done something hypocritical and illegal. Not that the kids know … yet, and not for a long time. If ever.It began with the dentist yanking at a back tooth he says must come out. Except that half of it cracks apart loudly. I feel nothing after six injections.The dentist mutters and frowns. I smell coffee on his breath as he taps what’s left of my tooth and says: “Damn. I can’t get it all out. It’s like a limpet in there. You’ll have to go to the hospital tomorrow.”I taste blood as he packs my swollen mouth with wadding and hands me a prescription for antibiotics, along with extra-strong painkillers to get me through the night.“It’s going to be painful in a few hours,” he warns, taking off his mask and wiping his forehead. Not nearly as much as the bill, I think but don’t say.The pharmacist is out for lunch. I leave the prescription to come back later. It’s 2.30pm and I get home feeling shaky.What to do if your student son or daughter is taking drugs I have a glass of water and watch bloody dribbles fall out of my numbed mouth. Although I’m hungry, I decide eating is too risky in case I bite my numbed tongue, as I once did.There’s a sudden explosion of laughter and foot-tapping above me from the garage loft-space. It was built as an extension by previous owners, but never finished and can only be accessed by a ladder. It’s where my 16- and 14-year-old sons, Ben and Aaron, hang out with their mates when it’s too wet or cold outside. I’m happy to have them there rather than hanging around the local Spar or park. My 12-year-old daughter, Molly, wouldn’t put one foot into what she regards as a cold and dirty den.I realise someone is truanting. Very quietly, I enter the garage and take off my shoes. There is so much laughing I think they’d be oblivious if I wore steel-capped boots. There’s Aaron with his best friend, Joe, and two other boys I know from the youth club.They are rolling a joint. I recognise the sweet, rich scent from university. I was a lightweight back then. I smoked it once after drinking cider and was extremely ill. Plus my anti-drugs-but-happy-to-drink-like-fish parents had drummed into me that dope was the slippery slope to heroin addiction. Seeing my young teenager rolling a joint releases the reactionary in me like a missile.Aaron had his back to me. Opposite, Joe sits open-mouthed at my sudden appearance. The other two have a reputation as regular truants. Aaron slowly looks round. His face drains.My body moves before I think. I’m in the middle of them and snatch the joint. Pocket it. And I’m off; laying down the parental law about truanting, lying, illegal drugs and what cannabis can do to teenage brains. I see horror on their faces, not about what I am saying, but because I am foaming blood and flecks fly on to them.I say “dentist” pointing at my mouth, which still isn’t working properly. I order the other two to leave because I don’t think their parents want to know what they are up to. Joe stays and I ask him and Aaron to go downstairs. I phone Joe’s dad, who happens to be a probation officer, off with a bad back. I just about make myself understood and he hobbles round.The boys sit silently in the kitchen as he starts to talk and I listen. I am annoyed with myself. I am calm and measured with the young people I work with when it comes to drugs, drink and sex. So why, when it comes to my kids, have I lost the plot?But Aaron is only just 14. I am scared. Spitting blood and putting on the kettle, I fret about what else he might be doing or be about to do soon.Joe’s father has an hour-long, two-way intelligent conversation with the boys. I feel gradually calmer. By the time he’s left, fears of them descending from cannabis as a gateway drug to class A substances and life on the streets dissipate.I still feel out of my depth. I know a lot about drugs but there so many new ones. According to a recent survey by the European School Survey Project on Alcohol and other Drugs, Brits head the league when it comes to teens drinking and taking drugs. Out of 30 countries, nearly 40% of 15- and 16-year-olds admitted taking illegal drugs.Fewer teenagers smoke, preferring to spend money on their mobiles than cigarettes. I try to set an OK example when I drink. I don’t give pocket money. Their dad, who lives away, does and I understand why, but it gives them purchasing power.Ben, my eldest, comes home and stares at my lopsided, swollen face. I tell him about Aaron, who is up in his room. He seems unfazed and suddenly seems much more grown up, even as he dumps his bag in the middle of the room, throws his coat on the radiator, grabs a bag of crisps and asks what’s for dinner.He slings a large brown envelope on the table in my direction and heads straight for the fridge-freezer.The envelope contains a photograph of his school’s final year. Everyone’s grinning and looking young and lovely. It’s one of those pictures students (and parents) will look back on and laugh about – the hair, the eyes shut, the braces – as they wonder what happened to classmates. Well, they did in my school before technology started keeping a tight track of everyone.“Ben,” I venture as he puts baked beans in the microwave, “how many in your year do drugs?”Ben points with the handle end of his spoon to three students. I am amazed and it shows in my voice: “Just three out of the whole year?”“D’oh!” he laughs. “Don’t be dim. Those are the three who haven’t done dope. Not sure about what else.”I note he hasn’t pointed himself out on the photograph. I can’t face asking him more questions today.Ben goes upstairs and I hear the brothers’ deep voices back and forth. It doesn’t seem a minute since they were small enough to scoop them up under both arms, when getting them to eat and to bed was the greatest hassle. Now it’s like being on a big dipper with no safety belt, for about five years.'Your child is going to experiment': what teenagers really think Molly arrives and rolls her eyes when I explain about Aaron. She says her brothers are idiots. I look at her with trepidation. Give it another year and I’ll be treading on eggshells.We eat dinner and it’s a subdued affair. I feel suddenly exhausted. My half-tooth begins to throb. The dentist’s painkillers have worn off and I’d forgotten to pick up the prescription. I look at the clock. It’s 8pm. The chemist is shut. I have no antibiotics or strong painkillers. I look in the cupboard and take the last two Aspirin and a double dose of some sticky old Calpol. I can’t face asking the neighbours. When I moved in last year, one set asked if I was on benefits and looked surprised when I said I’d always worked. The other side knocks on the wall if I so much as run up the stairs or listen to music. I keep my distance.By 11.30pm, I am nearly in tears with pain. Everyone is in bed asleep. I put my hand in my pocket for a tissue and find the well-rolled joint.I go into the bathroom and lock the door. I stand in the bath and open the frosted window on to the tiny back garden. There’s a full moon and the clear sky teems with stars. I can smell night-scented stock.I smoke the joint. The pain vanishes; so does the worry. It’s like I’m wrapped up in cotton wool. I have the best, deepest night’s sleep since the kids were born.• All names have been changed