I read this book in one day. Yep. One day. It is one of those books that has you hooked from the very first page. It is written in the form of a diary so every entry starts off with a summary sentence describing the rest of the extract which just makes you NEED to read it to find out what happened. There really isn’t a single dull moment in this book. It made me laugh out loud at some points, become really angry at other points and at one point I actually cried.This is the story of Lara T; I’m not going to mention her surname, there is a whole lot of detail about that in the book itself. Lara has one of the worst lives you could imagine. Her parents are going through a financial crisis, causing them to lose their lovely home and move into a horrid council house with loud, raucous neighbours. They constantly argue but they are still determined to carry on sending Lara to her private school which costs them almost all of their leftover money. But although Lara is an excellent student, she is constantly bullied at school. Verbally and physically. She has to deal with ten GCSEs, living up to her parents’ expectations as well as have no friends and therefore is alienated and bullied.   Photograph: PREnter Mr Ben Jagger (Mr J), the most handsome and nicest teacher you could ever imagine multiplied by a hundred. He is the only one who sees potential in Lara and brings out the best in her. Inviting her and only her to help him organise a talent contest, recommending her to go on a paid-for two day trip to Cambridge university as well as constantly praising her about her work and attitude. He changes Lara’s life for the better and is determined to make sure Lara sees herself as a beautiful person and someone who can stand up for herself. But things start to accelerate and the two get closer and more intimate. What follows is a whirlwind of happiness, secrets, deceit, love and then destruction. Now, I’ve read a lot of romantic stories but this is by far one of the best books I’ve read. I actually felt very close to Lara as not only does she share the same birthday as me but she goes through a lot of what I have also been through, which is bullying. I really liked the way that this book doesn’t sugarcoat anything and is straight to the point and clearly explains how a victim of bullying feels. Bullying is a sensitive topic and this book also clearly outlines how you should definitely talk to someone about it. The teacher-student relationship aspect was also surprisingly interesting to read about and I found myself supporting Mr J despite how everyone else felt. It is definitely a book that will touch many hearts and I highly highly recommend it to anyone. Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!