The Living and the Dead 9pm, BBC1What started out as a middling supernatural drama has taken a decidedly dark turn. Last week, Nathan became increasingly unstable after Shepzoy was overtaken by ghosts on All Hallows’ Eve, while tonight’s finale flits between the present day and the 19th century as a visitor from the future tries to save Nathan and Charlotte from themselves. If you can suspend your disbelief just a little further, there’s also a killer ending. Hannah J DaviesCraft: I Made This 9pm, More4Craft – which is basically DIY for cat lovers – has been one of the more twee products of our austere times. Presenters from Kirstie Allsopp to Monty Don have tried to extol the virtues of baking, sewing and gluing maps to old furniture, and this is the latest attempt to make the pastime worthy of TV. Here William Hardie, car bloke Ant Anstead and Clemency Green are challenged to make a dog bed, a garden bench and a hand-sewn leather satchel. John RobinsonBorderline 10pm, Channel 5New mockumentary, narrated and exec-produced by Ralf Little, that follows a dysfunctional border control team at a minor UK airport as they cope with impassive foreign nationals, drug smugglers and bellicose Home Office directives. It’s The Office with cavity searches, although judging by this bumpy first episode, it may take a while to find a groove. Edinburgh fringe veteran Jackie Clune is reliably good as harried team leader Linda Proctor. Graeme VirtueNYPD: Biggest Gang in New York?10.45pm, BBC1This film, originally screened on BBC3, follows New York’s “Copwatchers” – the citizens who scan police radio and film arrest procedure in the hope of preventing police abuses. Director Ben Steele focuses on Ramsey Orta, who shot a video of his friend Eric Garner being killed on camera by police officers during an arrest – and how Orta, admittedly no angel, now finds himself repeatedly the subject of police inquiries. JRChild Genius8pm, Channel 4The mini-nerds have been a charming bunch this year, yet you can’t help but think they should be playing in the park rather than answering questions about UK train stations. Tonight, five little clever clogs must face quizmaster Richard Osman and he takes no prisoners, shooting questions that would stump grownups. The two who do best in their specialist subjects will then go head to head for the title of Child Genius, as their parents lurk nervously in the background. Hannah VerdierBritain’s Pompeii: A Village Lost in Time9pm, BBC4At Must Farm quarry near Peterborough lie the remains of a late bronze-age settlement so well preserved it has been dubbed “the British Pompeii”. The spectacular finds, ranging from charred remains of wooden roundhouses to remnants of delicate cloth, offer “a pristine image” of life 3,000 years ago. Professor Alice Roberts visits the site, where archaeologists are investigating the fire that ultimately destroyed the village. Fascinating. Jonathan WrightLooking: The Movie10.15pm, Sky AtlanticGiving a cancelled show a feature-length goodbye demands a lot of tied-up loose ends. This swansong for the talky drama about a group of gay friends and lovers in San Francisco – Patrick returns after a year away, to catch up and perhaps reconsider his decision to leave – finds closure a tad too methodically. Fans won’t care, though, and when the self-analysis gives way to pure emotion, there’s reason to be sad that Looking has left us. Jack SealeFilm choiceEnter The Dragon, (Robert Clouse, 1973), 1.15am, TCMThe best of martial arts star Bruce Lee’s brief, brilliant career. He’s an agent infiltrating the island fortress of Han (Shih Kien), an opium smuggler, whose ugly henchman (Bob Wall) caused the death of Lee’s sister. The cast mainly act with their knuckles, but Lee in full flow is mesmerising, and the final hall-of-mirrors showdown with Han is a classic scene. Paul HowlettLive sportInternational cricket: West Indies v India Full coverage of day four from the second Test at Sabina Park. 3.55pm, Sky Sports 1Racing Not just one, but three evening meetings covered here, with races from Chelmsford City, Cork and Roscommon, too. 7pm, Sky Sports 3Wrestling: WWE – Late Night Smackdown Save the debate as to whether it’s sport or entertainment until after. 1am, Sky Sports 5