For the title of her new memoir, transgender rock star Laura Jane Grace borrowed a word she hates: Tranny.“It’s not a word I want to identify with,” she said. “But so much of my experience has been about internalized transphobia. I still have transphobic thoughts against myself. That’s the inevitable result of living in the world I live in.”The lacerating effects of those thoughts tear through nearly every page of Tranny, a book which takes as its subtitle Confessions of Punk Rock’s Most Infamous Anarchist Sell-Out. That cheeky phrase reflects the often misunderstood politics of Grace’s successful band, Against Me!, an outfit she formed as a teenage outcast while living in the benighted suburbs of Gainesville, Florida in the late 90s. While Grace, now 35, came out as a trans person in Rolling Stone in 2012, only in the memoir does she reveal the complexity, and the unresolved ache, of her quest for self-acceptance.That’s communicated most poignantly by the inclusion of pages ripped from the diaries Grace has kept for years. “I am completely lost,” begins a typical missive from 2004. “What voice do I listen to? What urge do I follow? I can never be anything more than a pervert dressed up in women’s clothes.”Grace says one motivation for writing the book was to unburden herself of the literal weight of her voluminous journals. “I wanted to do something with them so I no longer had to lug them everywhere I went,” she says with a laugh.The book traces Grace’s gender issues back to age five when she identified with Madonna’s Material Girl video when she saw it on TV . “Every kid has that moment when you look to your elders to try and see who you could be when you grow up,” Grace said. “It was watching Madonna when the gender dysphoria hit me. My sense of self-identification didn’t align with what other people expected from me.”After all, she had been raised as Tom Grace in a military family, a situation which led to confusion, depression and shame. “That was compounded by the fact there was just no information,” Grace said. “I didn’t know the word transgender and I had no internet to search or book to read.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As a teenager, Grace sought escape in the fog of drink and the creativity of punk. She loved the purity and conviction of the punk scene. “It meant so much to me that someone would mean what they said,” Grace recalled. “It was about wanting something to be real.”Grace formed her band at age 15 with drummer and friend Kevin Mahon. In Tranny, she writes about exploring the possibility of sex with Mahon, without resolution. “I was recognizing that maybe he had a thing for me – which made me realize that maybe I might have a thing for him too,” the singer said. “I wasn’t able to understand any of it. I had no understanding of sexuality or gender.”Besides, the possibility of a gay identity didn’t fit into the punk world that Grace knew. “Punk was supposed to be so open and accepting,” she said. “But when it came down to it, it was still hard to be queer in any way and not face judgment for it.”When Against Me! began to get popular and attract major label attention, they fell afoul of punk’s suspicions about success. In the memoir, Grace paints punks as even more rigid in their thinking about music than many people are in their approach to gender. “I turned to the punk scene because I thought it would be a more open-minded place,” she said. “But I found that it was more closed-minded than the church.”Grace began to defy the rules of punk as fervently as she did the codes of masculine identity. In her band’s lyrics she started to write lines that expressed her feelings of gender dysmorphia. “At first, I attributed it to my subconscious pushing me forward,” Grace said.The lyrics sailed right over the heads of both the fans and her band-mates. “It became this game of ‘OK, how much can I get say and get away with it?’” Grace said. “When I was still getting no reaction it became disheartening. I was [like] ‘OK, are you listening to any of the lyrics?’” At the same time, she began to test the waters of presentation by increasingly dressing in women’s clothing, though always in secret. The fear of discovery highlighted Grace’s sense of shame. In the meantime, she pursued the most conventional personal life possible, maintaining deep romantic relationships with women and, later, marrying and having a child. The seriousness of her commitments greatly intensified Grace’s feelings of entrapment. Her book relates, in harrowing detail, the fear leading up to finally coming clean to her family and to her fans. But her turmoil became even more intense after those disclosures, once she realized that little of the serious, internal work of self-acceptance had begun. Once she got the book deal in 2012, she sank to a new low. “I thought, ‘Oh my God. I’ve got to write a fucking book and they expect it to be some “Becoming Laura” story in which transition solves all my problems’,” Grace said. “I didn’t know what to do.” She also felt pressure to act as a role model for the transgender community at a point when doubts still crowded her own mind. “People would come up to me and casually say, ‘Hey, you inspired me to start hormones.’ I don’t want to discredit someone’s decision-making ability but at the same time I don’t want to be responsible if they have a negative experience. Hormones are a really big thing. They can do crazy things with your head. And anyway, your identity shouldn’t be based on whether or not you’re doing hormones.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Jane Grace, second from left, with the rest of Against Me! Photograph: Record Company Handout For Grace, the more profound transition has to do with “smashing the male ego. If you’ve been raised and socialized, as a male, and you’re transitioning to living your life openly as female, then you have to destroy the male ego you’ve been raised with. For me, coming out to my friends and family wasn’t enough to fully destroy it. It was everything that happened internally afterwards that did.” Grace said that’s why it took her four years to write the book. She needed that time to more fully become herself. Meanwhile, the world of began to change around her. “There have been so many milestones that I never thought would happen,” Grace said. “You have a trans person like Laverne Cox on the cover of Time magazine!” Still, she doubts these media representations translate to everyday issues for trans people, such as being able to walk down a street safely, be treated fairly in the workplace or have adequate healthcare. A recent experience demonstrated the disconnect. While on tour, Grace was walking through the Detroit airport when she saw a giant TV broadcasting comments from attorney general Loretta Lynch about transgender rights. The sight made her swell with pride. Yet, minutes later, at the airport bar, Grace heard the staff spewing ignorant comments. “I went down to them and said ‘I’m transgender and you’re wrong about this’,” she said. “The first thing out of someone’s mouth was, ‘Is it true that Caitlyn Jenner resents changing from Bruce?’ What do you say to that?” Issues also remain in the artist’s personal life. Her wife left her after she came clean about her identity and for a while, they didn’t speak. After reading the memoir, her former partner called Grace a narcissist. “Fair enough,” Grace allows. ‘There is something inherently narcissistic about writing a memoir at 35.” There’s also something unfinished about it. Grace realizes she has a lot more of life to navigate. In the meantime, some very positive things have happened for her, including a new sense of camaraderie with her band and a growing base of supportive fans. Still, such things can’t instantly erase the traumas of the past. “It’s impossible not to be somewhat fucked up after spending 30 years dealing with dysphoria and then being out for five years,” she said. “That’s a lot of baggage and mental issues to work through. It’s not like because you accept a certain part of yourself that, all of a sudden, you’re solved as a person. It’s just a good first step.”