A country house that provided the model for Mr Rochester’s home in Jane Eyre is under “dire threat”, say campaigners. More than 6,000 people have signed a petition calling on Lancashire county council to reconsider plans to scrap their management and maintenance of Wycoller Hall, near Colne.The ruin of the 16th-century manor house, at the centre of a country park, was immortalised by Charlotte Brontë as Ferndean Manor in her 1847 novel – the property where romantic lead Mr Rochester relocates after fire destroys his home at Thornfield Hall. Wycoller Hall is just over the moors from Haworth in West Yorkshire, where the Brontë family lived. It is believed that Charlotte and Emily visited Wycoller village frequently.Although fallen into disrepair, Wycoller Hall is a listed building and is currently managed by Lancashire county council. The council is proposing to stop maintenance and abandon ranger service patrols as part of £262m budget cuts, but campaigners fear this will make the property vulnerable to vandalism and result in its being “lost forever”.Richard Wilcocks, former chairman of the Brontë Society, said the council’s proposals were a “smack in the face” on the 200th anniversary of Charlotte Brontë’s birth. “It is very depressing that Lancashire county council is planning to close down essential services for Wycoller Hall, which is much more than a place of interest for Brontë lovers,” Wilcocks said. “This action amounts to an act of vandalism against part of our heritage, and it is particularly thoughtless and cynical this year, when the bicentenary of Charlotte Brontë’s birth is being celebrated.”According to the Friends of Wycoller, who have set up an online petition against the proposals: “Ferndean Manor … is under dire threat – as is the picturesque and inspirational Brontë Way, which starts at Ferndean Manor and leads to Brontë Parsonage museum, Haworth.“Visitors will no longer be able to see the great aisled barn or use the countryside activity centre. The visitor toilets will close and the privately run cafe and shop are unlikely to survive. A key part of the Brontë sisters’ heritage will be lost forever.”A volunteer group, the Friends of Wycoller, was set up in the 1950s to preserve the site after years of stone looting damaged the property, including the hall’s porch, which was systematically taken down stone by stone. Lancashire county council, which on 4 January started a public consultation on its budget cut plans, to run until 27 March, said the maintenance of countryside sites “is not a statutory requirement and it is proposed that Lancashire county council ceases to provide this service in April 2018”.“We will be looking for new ways to manage the countryside estate and will be working with partners, other organisations and local people to explore a range of options to ensure that the key sites will continue to be available and well looked after for visitors,” the council said.Ferndean Manor is introduced in Chapter 37 of Jane Eyre:  The manor-house of Ferndean was a building of considerable antiquity, moderate size, and no architectural pretensions, deep buried in a wood. I had heard of it before. Mr Rochester often spoke of it, and sometimes went there. He would have let the house, but could find no tenant, in consequence of its ineligible and insalubrious site. Ferndean then remained uninhabited and unfurnished with the exception of some two or three rooms fitted up for the accommodation of the squire when he went there in the season to shoot.Wycoller also featured in the movie The Railway Children, with Jennie Agutter as Bobbie sitting on a bridge over the stream.