The Philippines will not honour commitments it made under the Paris climate change deal, president Rodrigo Duterte has said in a speech.“You are trying to stifle us,” Duterte said on Monday in widely reported comments. “That’s stupid, I will not honour that. You signed … That was not my signature.”The UN pact, agreed by 195 countries including the Philippines last December, aims to limit warming to below 2C (36F) and strive to keep temperatures at 1.5C above pre-industrial levels.The deal comes into force when 55 countries covering 55% of global emissions formally join. The Philippines accounts for less than 1% of the world’s emissions, and has not ratified the deal.Duterte said he felt like attacking an ambassador to the Philippines at a recent meeting, after he was asked about plans to cut the country’s greenhouse gas emissions.Duterte said: “I’m mad at this ambassador. I want to kick him,” adding that limits on carbon emissions for the Philippines were “nonsense”.“You who have reached your peak and along with it spewed a lot of contaminants, emissions … Good for you. We are here, we have not reached the age of industrialisation. We are on our way to it.”Lucille Sering, a former climate negotiator, said the country’s action plan had always been contingent on financial and technology support. The president’s remarks were “probably taken out of context”, she tweeted.Lucille Sering (@lucille_sering)PH climate submission is conditional on support. Meaning, no support no carbon reduction. Pres Duterte probably taken out of contextJuly 18, 2016Philippines investigates Shell and Exxon over climate change It is not the first time Duterte has criticised the international climate agreement, however. He previously accused the UN of being “hypocrites” for fixing a pact that requires all countries – not just the rich – to make greenhouse gas cuts.The UN deal also encourages countries to develop better climate resilience strategies, vital for a nation as vulnerable to extreme weather as the Philippines.Storms are likely to become more severe say scientists, raising the prospect of future catastrophes like typhoon Haiyan, which left more than 6,000 dead in 2013.