Let him who gives me a shadow not hold me.You know the breadth of a staris not equal to the embrace of the ray.Let me go, blue holy light,my shadow is in torment on the black earth.Am I drunk, or is my road drunk?The snow flows, the earth is white and black.The word ‘I’ is a wanderer like I,you are eternal as an icy, cracked puddle.Did we trip over our shadowor did the mirage melt in the icy pupil —a roof, holding up a lamp, when the house moved.As the day approached noon, Zamzama awoke, and walked into his smaller bathroom to wash himself for the day. The light happened to be on in the narrow room, and he stretched his hands out towards the tap. At exactly the same point, his still-sleepy eyes happened to notice a naked adolescent lying in the bath. Maybe he realised that it was an adolescent due to the fact that the whole body could fit into the bath. Maybe also due to him lying in an empty bath naked, Zamzama purposefully didn’t look in that direction, rather washing his hands with soap and distracting himself with the trickling tap. “Perhaps I should have knocked, although he seems to be keeping silent,” he thought for a moment, though this thought appeared and disappeared just as fast as the flowing water, circling down the drain. Looking from behind his son’s shoulder to the small pile in front of them, he saw a naked arm protruding from the snow The boy indeed kept silent. In order to avoid bad luck, he didn’t want to shake his hands dry. Therefore, trying to locate the towel in his mind, he unwillingly glanced at the figure in the bath. Was he one of the unmannered friends of his son? For some reason, his vision fell onto their fluffy crotch, jumping back up to the boy’s slanted, closed eyes. Whilst rushing out of the bathroom trying to make no sound, the fact that there was no water in the bath astounded him. Had the young man fallen asleep, and if so, how could he? Was he drunk? Only having just seen his fluffy groin, he thought, are his legs a little disproportionately short? Maybe they were just going into the dark bottom of the bath…Zamzama carefully closed the door of the bathroom, hurriedly heading towards his wife’s bedroom. He wanted to ask about his son. His wife had already made the bed in the few minutes that he had been gone, clearing the smell and having moved on to attending to the dying and sullen plants in the same room. As he walked in, she was talking to them, pruning them of their dying petals and yellowed leaves. “Hulyo,” whispered Zamzama, as if afraid to wake someone. His wife was occupied with her conversation, maybe not having heard him. “Hulyo,” Zamzama repeated, approaching her. His voice miscalculated the distance, frightening his wife. “Was that you,” she turned, clutching a pair of scissors in her hands. Zamzama was surprised initially – “who else could it be?!” But then, returning to his original intentions, he suppressed his jealous overtone and asked Hulyo, “who is the boy laying in the bathtub?” “Which bathroom?” Hulyo said, gathering herself. “Not in your one – in the little one,” he reassured her, in a calming tone. “Oh, in the small one…” started his wife, finally distracting herself from the flowers. “Oh, in the small one, it’s the corpse that we found in this spring, don’t you remember?” Nope, he had completely forgotten about it. Only after a few moments did Zamzama remember that event that had occurred three or four weeks ago.In the days of the last snow of the winter – on a Sunday – their son had gone to a school competition, later returning with a nosebleed. Fortunately, his mother was away at the bazaar, and when Zamzama asked what happened, he replied that he had ended up fighting with the older boys. When asked about the fact that they had made his nose bleed, he quipped, “it’s better to leave with a broken nose than a broken heart.” “That’s my son!” replied Zamzama, treating him by taking everyone sledging in the snowy fields once the mother had returned. They trod through the snow; they crossed the fields, and they dragged the sledge until, completely exhausted, they finally entered the poplar woods. Placing the sledge in the middle as a table, they brought out tea, sweets and snacks from their rucksacks, and started their picnic feast. The sun started to descend, with the light poking through the trunks, rather than the branches of the poplar trees.Though there was little warmth emanating from the lowly sunlight, the snow still glistened, shuffling and melting away. While these people drank their tea, the son felt a small urge, taking a stick and walking off behind a tree. After a short while, a scream of “DAD!” came from behind the tree. Zamzama was enchanted with his tea, not paying the scream any attention. With this, Hulyo nudged him, half-asking, half-commanding him to go and check on his son. Gulping his hot tea in a hurry, Zamzama rushed off towards his son’s voice. He saw his son transfixed, having only just peed under a single poplar, with his stick dug firmly into the snow. Zamzama reached his son in four giant leaps, hugging him tightly from behind. His son shook with fear. Looking from behind his son’s shoulder to the small pile in front of them, he saw a naked arm protruding from the snow. Out of his fright, he swiftly pulled his son’s stick out of the mound. The line of powdery snow that came away with the stick plopped on to the floor, revealing a shoulder and one side of the body’s face. His son let out a frightful shriek. Hulyo, hearing the commotion, ran crazily in their direction without any clue of what had gone on, crying and shouting. “Is it a bear?! Is it a bear?” Hulyo shouted worriedly, as if she could have fought off a bear in the instance that she was right. Reaching her stunned family, she also caught a glimpse of the greenish, naked arm and head, and screamed in unison with her shrieking son. They were surrounded by unbounded and endless fields – kilometres without roads, buildings, or civilisation This panic and mayhem lasted a few moments. Help didn’t arrive, nor did they themselves run away. Hulyo, being the first to come to her senses, exclaimed, “we should call the police!” Answering this, Zamzama replied, “HELP, SOS, POLICE,” sarcastically mocking her suggestion. Indeed, they were surrounded by unbounded and endless fields – kilometres without roads, buildings, or civilisation. As luck would have it, Zamzama had also left all of their mobile phones at home, thinking that they would no doubt lose them otherwise. Even the sun, emphasising the vast, broad, emptiness of the terrain that they found themselves in, became a tiny red speck on the horizon. The powdery, soft snow still continued melting, making it clear that the corpse that was wrapped in a blackish tarpaulin shroud, belonged to an adolescent.“We should take the corpse to the police,” whispered Zamzama. “Why?” Hulyo enquired, unable to stop herself being horrified. “Well, it’s a child, isn’t it?” Zamzama replied…A week before...Here, we have to cut the storyline, and comment upon why Zamzama came to that conclusion. A week before that unexpected event, something had happened to him, that he kept secret from everybody. At a wintery 5pm, with dusk commencing, Zamzama was driving home a little early. On the road, the traffic was busy. Some sneaky people overtook him at junctions. Others lowered their windows and swore at those devious blighters, on behalf of themselves and Zamzama. He was awfully tired, with his nerves as tense as the strings of a guitar. More precisely, like the rubber of his son’s sling. Another drop of tension, and the stone from his snotty fingers would release, troubling the world like the exploding feathers of the unlucky bird target. In the middle of these thoughts, Zamzama moved towards the suburbs of the city, where the roads emptied slightly, allowing him to speed up. “There’s a right turn in front of me, which has a narrower street, but speeds the journey up.” He thought. “That, or I could continue with the high street, which is slowly speeding up itself…”  His car was disappearing in the little side roads, with Zamzama reassuring himself that the biker was still alive In this hesitation, he approached the junction, quickly looked at his mirror and the traffic heading towards him, and saw that both were empty. At the very last second, he veered right sharply without any time for indication. With this quick motion, he heard a bang with a number of smaller sounds exploding behind him. Instantly he glanced at his rear-view mirror, seeing the shiny wheel of a motorbike rolling away from its tumbling rider, dressed in black. A thought told him to stop. Instead of putting his foot on the brake pedal however, his foot landed on the acceleration, speeding him away. His car revved its engine, bursting forwards. There was no way back. “It’s his fault! It’s his fault!” his heart and mind told Zamzama’s shivering body. “That bastard wanted to overtake me at the junction, he deserved it!” His car was disappearing in the little side roads, with Zamzama reassuring himself further that the biker was still alive: not only had the rolling black biker been wearing a helmet, but none of the cars behind him had signalled, he thought to himself in order to justify it all.Having come home, the shivering Zamzama gulped down a glass of whiskey which he kept for his guests. Telling himself that he had work to do, he locked himself in his study. He didn’t sleep at all that night, breaking the peace of his wife’s sleep, too. “What if he’d died,” he thought, “even though it was his fault, I should have stopped.” “Was I afraid that he’d beat me up for not indicating?” “What do I do if the police raid my house?” Hundreds of thoughts paced through his mind, burning him with anguish, all night. He wished that he could turn time back like he did his car, so as to check if the biker was still alive. He wished that, as his eleven year old son would say, “it’s better to leave with a broken nose than a broken heart.”In the morning, having woken limp and depressed, he drove his car to work. Approaching that very same junction with fear and guilt, there was no sign of broken glass, tyre marks, or traces of blood. In fact, there was no sign that an accident had taken place the day before at all. “God bless you, you’re a real tough biker you little prick! Your body’s made of steel…” Zamzama thought to himself, praising the biker, who had seemingly gathered himself together and driven off.Now you can probably understand why he felt obliged to take home the corpse of this adolescent. Hulyo was initially strongly against the idea, firmly keeping the belief that they would be framed for the murder, above all else. Zamzama didn’t argue or quarrel with her, rather using her own arguments against her. ‘If we leave him here, they could trace us back to our house and arrest us. Arrest us not only for murder, but also for attempting to conceal a crime.’ Hearing this, Hulyo shook him away, tightened her upper lip, and curtly replied, ‘do as you wish,’ before placing the thermos in her rucksack and heading home. Which bathroom? [...] Oh, in the small one, it’s the corpse that we found in this spring, don’t you remember? Zamzama prodded and brushed the powdery snow from the corpse, with his son’s stick. They saw that only a single arm and cheek were visible, with the rest of the body covered in the tarpaulin. Therefore, either from the disgust for the corpse itself, or due to his inability to lift the cadaver, Zamzama went into his rucksack to find the plastic cover for the sledge. Wrapping up the exposed parts of the body with the remaining tarpaulin, he pulled the sledge cover from head to toe before zipping it up, bringing the sledge next to the mound, and slowly rolling the body onto the sledge. They came one after each other to their suburban home on the edge of the city, once night had already fallen. Pushing the sledge with its load into their empty garage, they left it as it stood, and Zamzama agreed with his son to call the police first thing in the morning.This unexpected occurrence worried all of them, and none of them slept too comfortably that night. His son kicked up a fuss, claiming that he couldn’t sleep by himself. The poor mother – still cross with the earlier decision – shuttled between the two rooms, trying to get her son to sleep. Thus, both the peace and quiet of the family was broken that night. Only having fallen asleep at 3 or 4am, a phone’s shrill sound pierced through their sleep at 7am, with the orchestral conductor informing Zamzama that today’s concert had been moved to a neighbouring city, with the rehearsal starting within a few hours. As usual, he was annoyingly informative with his reasoning, going into depth while Zamzama stared with dull eyes at the clock, considering whether he could muster any more hours of sleep together.Unfortunately, his sleep was irreparably broken. He woke up hastily, threw some water on his face, threw some food in his mouth as breakfast and leafed through his notes, before throwing them into his trombone’s case. Without waking anyone in his household, he decided he would message them later to inform them of his whereabouts, and he plodded out of his house to the car that was parked outside. His car brought up some sort of anguish within him, yet as he put the keys in the engine and the music quietly played out of the radio, he immediately forgot the cause of his stress.Uzbekistan's unmentionable writer What was an urgent task to be remembered overnight dragged on, turning into a three-day celebration of the neighbouring city’s anniversary. The fourth or fifth day, exhausted and on his way home, he crashed into the car of a forgetful old lady, who had veered right out of nowhere, not knowing any better. ‘What a silly old cow,’ Zamzama thought to himself. Weren’t they lucky that they both escaped without injury? You could say so, though both cars had to be completely written off. Somehow, he managed to get home by midnight. Despite this weekend, he had come to a deal with the local garage, having to fork out a substantial sum in order to get his car fixed. Two more days were spent on this. Just as his car was fixed, the clarinet player in his orchestra – his colleague and friend – broke his hand and asked Zamzama to take him to the hospital. The next day: another concert, or another celebration, and to put it simply, the small day-to-day problems of a simple life.Now here he is, standing and discussing the issue of the corpse with his wife. “Whether it’s the hot weather or something else, we had to take him to the bathroom to get the horrible stench out of the garage.” Usually, his cross wife would place the things that Zamzama had forgotten either onto his music stand, or onto his desk, yet this time she sounded sincere. Nonetheless, the jealousy burning up in him, he quickly chipped, “we – who is we?” “I meant myself and your son,” she replied, looking away at the flowers and playing with her scissors. “We need to call the police right away,” exclaimed Zamzama. “What are you going to say to them though?” she enquired. By this point however, he had already picked up the telephone, and quickly pressed through the number for the local police. “We’ve been living with a corpse for ages, who would have thought it!” he muttered to himself. “Hello?” a voice spoke, snapping him out of his thoughts. “Hello, is this the police?” Zamzama asked. “Yeah,” the deep, male voice replied. “I-I’m calling… calling you because we erm… went to the fields outside the edges of the city, and found a boy’s corpse under the snow, and brought him b-back, but maybe someone buried him legally, but just in case...” he started, though his wife interrupted him as usual, and started hinting at what to say. “If you’re interested…” she mouthed, and as annoyed as Zamzama was, he still added, “… if you’re interested,” sheepishly. “Yes, well we’ll see,” said the voice, before abruptly hanging up. Zamzama froze for a moment. What did the officer say? Did he say that they would see, and if so, what did that mean? He hadn’t even taken his name, address, or did they know everything already?Another thought came to his mind: “Maybe I should take the naked body out of the waterless bath, wrap it back into the tarpaulin, and throw it away?” “Or maybe cut it in–” he frightened himself with that thought, and it was quickly dispelled. Why had he brought this corpse back to his home in the first place? Hadn’t his wife warned him that it would cause nothing but trouble? Why hadn’t he listened to his wife, then? What’s he going to do now?This is a shortened version of a short story by Hamid Ismailov. Read the full version here. *****Translated from Uzbek by Dani IsmailovHamid Ismailov was born into a deeply religious Uzbek family of Mullahs and Khodjas living in Kyrgyzstan, many of whom had lost their lives during the Stalin era persecution. Yet he had received an exemplary Soviet education, graduating with distinction from both his secondary school and military college, as well as attaining university degrees in a number of disciplines. Though he could have become a high-flying Soviet or post-Soviet apparatchik, instead his fate led him to become a dissident writer and poet residing in the West. He was the BBC World Service first Writer in Residence. Critics have compared his books to the best of Russian classics, Sufi parables and works of Western post-modernism. While his writing reflects all of these and many other strands, it is his unique intercultural experience that excites and draws the reader into his world.Daniyar Ismailov studies Anthropology, Sociology and Politics at Cambridge University and translates from Uzbek and Russian.