When Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie was featured on Beyoncé’s track, she became, according to elle.com, “Beyoncé’s Favorite Novelist.” In the months following the collaboration, there was much talk about how being linked to Beyoncé had somehow upgraded Adichie into a truly global celebrity. Lemonade shows Beyoncé looking to Africa yet again for its wealth of literary production – and sadly, the discourse hasn’t changed. The media seems confused about Beyoncé’s investment in Warsan Shire – they have interpreted it as artistic generosity Somali-British poet Warsan Shire worked with Beyoncé on the poetic interludes in Lemonade: The Visual Album. Shire is so integral to the project that, in the credit roll, her name comes before everyone else. Yet the media seems confused about Beyoncé’s investment in Shire – which they have simply interpreted as a kind of artistic generosity. NPR focuses on how “Beyoncé’s ‘Lemonade’ Turns A Somali-Brit Poet Into A Global Star.” Vogue.com calls Shire the newest “Beyoncé-backed literary sensation.” In 2013, the article points out, “Beyoncé made a similar sensation of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie”; to Vogue, Lemonade is another case of Beyoncé transforming an obscure African writer into a global “sensation.” Shire and Adichie begin to seem less and less like collaborators and more like beneficiaries of Beyoncé’s artistic benevolence – cogs in the vast machinery of Beyoncé’s stardom. This kind of thinking resurrects old types of discourses around Africa’s relationship to global cultural forms. We, unfortunately, find ourselves suddenly back to talking about African aesthetic forms as things that attain true universal value only when they are tacked on to the Western aesthetic apparatus.I can’t pretend that working with or for Beyoncé does not hold some value. The issue for me is that we have to find a better way of identifying what this value is. Bear in mind that Beyoncé is not simply an individual but the meeting point of a set of global cultural forces. If African literature is circulating globally on the crest of this confluence of culture, power, and capital called Beyoncé, we have to be able to intelligently identify the form of the value it generates. But this value can’t be reduced to a case of Queen Bey knighting her African literary flavor of the month with a patch of her cultural estate. Lemonade has become proof of the powerful influence that African literature is having on global aesthetic forms Beyoncé’s collaboration with Shire is valuable not because Shire ends up being anointed as a global star. Instead, the collaboration allows us to re-plot the global movement of influences. Shire’s body of work is a dazzling constellation of haunting imageries and experimental elements inspired by the lives of African women. Teaching My Mother How To Give Birth and For Women Who Are Difficult to Love are some of the most iconic texts of contemporary African literature. By using these texts as the poetic scaffolding of Lemonade, Shire plants seeds of African literature deep within one of the most significant works of our time. Lemonade becomes proof of the powerful influence that African literature is having on global aesthetic forms.Lemonade is a very African project. Throughout the course of the visual album, Beyoncé repeatedly interrupts her singing to recite poetry. Some of these lines are adaptations and direct quotes from Shire’s poetry. Shire provides the vital connections that hold the work together. Her poetry marks the moments in Lemonade when cinematography and music resolve their opposition in the stark and material beauty of poetic expression. In a sense, Beyoncé looks to Shire’s oeuvre to – literally – find the language to express her own reality. Shire’s work, thus, provides some of the key terms for interpreting Beyoncé’s work. A thorough study of Lemonade would require that we returned to Shire’s adaptation of Somali proverbs in her work, Shire’s erotic surrealism, the nomad texture of her creative life, and Shire’s attempt to document the life of the African woman from Somalia to London, and everywhere in between.There is no way to enter into the complex textual world of Lemonade without passing through Shire’s poetry which, among other things, was first used to give an account of the lives of African women before it was adapted to tell the story of women’s lives in America. Through Shire, Beyoncé is given access to the rich archive of texts and images we call African literature. But this also means that African literature now commands one of the points of access into the complex of meanings in a cultural object as globally situated as Lemonade.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There is no way to enter into the world of Lemonade without passing through Shire’s poetry which, among other things, was first used to give an account of the lives of African women before it was adapted to tell the story of women’s lives in America.’ Photograph: HBOSign up to our Bookmarks newsletter Everyone wants to point out that Beyoncé’s celebrity power elevates Shire’s work and gives her access to a much more expanded global stage. I think it’s the other way round. Shire’s poetry prepares the way for Beyoncé’s work and, in a sense, makes it possible: African literature provides the terms on which Beyoncé’s work can be made intelligible.To see African aesthetics as the centre of meaning in Lemonade is to literally turn the world upside down. The conventional assumption is that ideas and aesthetic innovation flow from the west to places such as Africa. But this can be reversed: African literature shines light on Beyoncé’s work, not the other way round.