Works of art from a very private collection belonging to Mary Fedden and Julian Trevelyan, which includes items by Henry Moore and Pablo Picasso, will go on auction to raise funds to preserve the studio that served as the couple’s creative hub for over 40 years.Durham Wharf on the Thames in Hammersmith, west London, has survived decades amid the rising apartment complexes and modern buildings, a monument to a love both personal and professional that lasted almost half a century.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mary Fedden and Julian Trevelyan. Photograph: Sotheby'sFedden first met Trevelyan when she was a student at the Slade, and declared on the spot that she had met the man she would marry – and did indeed become his second wife in 1951. They worked until his death, mainly in different corners of the same studio: her work often incorporated rejected fragments of his etchings, which she hoarded and used in her collages. Trevelyan died in 1988, aged 78, and Fedden in 2012, aged 96.The studio is one of the few surviving industrial wharves on that stretch of the river that from the 1920s became cheap studio space for a succession of artists. Trevelyan’s son, the film-maker Philip Trevelyan, said he had discussed the future of their studio in Fedden’s final years, and knew his father would also undoubtedly have approved of the project. “My father and stepmother lived together at their studio in Durham Wharf for over 40 years. It was more than just a studio, it shaped their whole lives and became a creative hub and meeting place where artists could gather and work together.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Durham Wharf, by Julian Trevelyan. Photograph: Sotheby'sThe auction, to be held at Sotheby’s in November, is estimated to raise up to £600,000, which will be used to employ the Turner prize-winning architects collective, Assemble, to restore the wharf as a not-for-profit base for artists – at a time when studio space has become unaffordable or impossible to find in much of London.Trevelyan wrote of the wharf: “Here I put down my tap root: my life was measured by its tides and my dreams were peopled by its swans and seagulls.” One painting records the wharf as Trevelyan saw it in the 1940s: a patch of bright green against a still industrial background of smoking chimneys.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two Half Figures by Henry Moore. Photograph: Sotheby'sThe wharf had already been a studio space for many artists when he found it, including textile designer Joyce Clissold, and war artist Eric Kennington.The revolutionary artists of the 60s’ colourful counterculture All the paintings in the auction come from the couple’s private collection, including records by both of them of their extensive travels, to places including New York, India and Russia, which they began when he recovered from meningitis in 1962.Fedden’s works include many of the pictures she couldn’t bear to sell, and kept in her studio until her death, including a portrait of her husband early in their marriage, sitting in the studio with their cat sitting on his knee. The sale will also have the originals of her illustrations for the children’s story Motley the Cat – with Motley unmistakably based on her own tabby cat.Their pictures will be sold at Sotheby’s in London on 23 November. Sotheby’s specialist Simon Hucker called the collection “a fresh and highly personal insight into the life and work of two of Britain’s most cherished artists”.