Beggars Group – home of independent music labels 4AD, Matador, Rough Trade Records, XL Recordings and Young Turks – has warned US customers of a data breach following news that the conglomerate has been hacked.A letter sent by Beggars’ US distributor, Matador Direct, to customers last week explained that people who purchased any products from the websites for the aforementioned labels between 28 April 2015 and 4 May 2016 may be victims of the data breach, possibly exposing their personal information to the perpetrators.Artists such as the xx, FKA Twigs, Cat Power, Sonic Youth, Vampire Weekend, St Vincent, Pavement, Interpol, Queens of the Stone Age fall under the Beggars Group label. It is not yet known how many people were affected by the hack. A spokesperson from the label confirmed that those who purchased Adele’s 25 would not be affected, given her US label is Columbia, while the label’s other major release, Radiohead’s A Moon Shaped Pool, was released outside of the hacker’s time frame. “Matador Direct operates the US web stores, so this is not a global issue,” they added. According to Pitchfork, Matador’s letter listed the “customers name, address, phone number, email address, payment card number, expiration date and security code” as information that may have been obtained by an unauthorised third party.  Labels at risk … the Beggars Group stable. Photograph: Beggars Group“On May 4, 2016, we were advised by our third-party website developer that it had identified and removed suspicious files from the e-commerce websites of the record labels for which Matador Direct is the distributor,” Matador president and co-owner Patrick Amory wrote in the letter dated 15 July. “We quickly began an investigation and hired a third-party cybersecurity firm to assist us.” Beggars Group says it has “remediated” the security on its website and asks customers to change any passwords that might be linked to their past orders. “Customers that have questions may contact our dedicated call centre at (877) 218-0056, Monday through Friday, from 9 am to 7pm EST, and provide reference number 7631070716 when calling,” their instructions read. 