“We made the Cramps sound orchestral / That’s an achievement I guess. / As for rehearsal, we made the Shaggs sound like Yes.” Lines this smart and funny don’t appear on pop records too often – and ones that refer to demented outsider artist band the Shaggs never do. Outside the work of Stephin Merritt, that is.In 2017, the superlative songwriter, leftfield pop’s answer to another Stephen (Sondheim), is back with his 25th album, 50 Song Memoir. Well, 25th album if you count his many side projects (including groups like the Gothic Archies and Future Bible Heroes), the three Chinese operas he has written and Coraline, the musical Merritt wrote with David Greenspan, based on the children’s book by Neil Gaiman, which was first staged off-Broadway in 2009 and has enjoyed several productions since. However, Merritt will perhaps always be best known for 69 Love Songs. Released by his main group the Magnetic Fields in 1999, the three-hour triple album with the self explanatory title is a classic, maybe one of the great songwriting feats of the 20th century. “If I had three albums to take to a desert island, I would choose 69 Love Songs volumes one, two and three,” tweeted Molly Ringwald in a quote later emblazoned on the recent vinyl reissue (which this writer happily bought, to keep my two CD copies company). Its reputation towers – perhaps unfairly – over the Magnetic Fields’ four subsequent, more modestly sized, though equally singular records – such as the follow-up, i, on which all the song titles began with that letter.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cover of 50 Song MemoirNow, however, Merritt is squaring up to 69 Love Songs with another epic concept album. An idea proposed to him by the boss of his record company over dinner at the Oyster Bar in New York’s Grand Central Station, 50 Song Memoir contains a tune for every year of Merritt’s life (well, at the time he started the project – he turns 52 next month). Blizzard of 78, from which the lines above come, chronicles his first attempts to form a band while living in a commune in north Vermont; the furious “Quotes” (his song for 2006) is about being accused of racism by the New Yorker’s then music critic Sasha Frere-Jones; London by Jetpack chronicles his first visit in 1980 (“I spent August in London when the New Romantic reigned / And though I was oblivious then, my love has never waned”); and Be True to Your Bar is an anthem for Dick’s Bar, the East Village boozer in which Merritt wrote most of 69 Love Songs. Then there’s the song Weird Diseases, which takes in Merritt’s epilepsy as an infant, other maladies including “really painful renal cysts” and then hyperacusis, an intolerance to certain frequencies which started to plague him in 1992, and which makes it impossible for him to perform in front of a conventional drum kit. So as well as your love life and drinking habits, we know about your whole medical history now, I tell Merritt, who is calling from his car in New York. “Only part of it!” he laughs. “I’m sorry to say it could be quite a lot longer – there could be a 12in version. And there could be an update.” Was he nervous about divulging so much of his life in song? “I feel after 25 albums the cat is kind of out of the bag,” he replies. Merritt adds that the songs dealing with more recent events were harder to write than those about the distant past. “The recent past is a mess, and the long-ago past is nicely sorted into categories. You can’t really remember anything outside of the alleged process of the already done. Oh no, I slipped into the second person! I had actually sworn not to do interviews in the second person for this album.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen toNo, from the album 50 Song MemoirWriting one’s autobiography, of course, also involves revealing things about other people. On Life Ain’t All Bad, Merritt sets about a now-dead boyfriend his mother had in 1977, with lines including the couplet: “When I write my memoirs, which will be of course in verse / On the subject of you and how awful you are I will be infinitely terse.” The living friends, lovers and family members who appear on 50 Song Memoir were forewarned. “The people who could possibly be insulted, I cleared with them first, very much including my mother. In the song No I say that my mother doesn’t believe in the physical universe and has no preview evidence to support her belief, and her only objection to the song was that in her opinion she has plenty of evidence.” The album concludes on a rousing note with Somebody’s Fetish, in which Merritt declares: “Nothing’s too strange for somebody’s palate / Some spank the maid, and some wank the valet.” In other words, he’s found love. “Well, I’m in love in several other places on the album as well,” he points out, “but I think the message is more that one can find a happy ending in the river of life rushing back. I could have given it a tragic ending. There are any number of other things to concentrate on – American politics for example.” The album has already been played live in its entirety over two nights apiece in front of audiences in New York and Massachusetts (“They clapped a lot and stood up at the end,” says Merritt drily, when I ask about the reaction). So is it nerve-racking to make something that’s bound to be compared to his meisterwerk? “Yes, it is nerve-racking, but it was more nerve-racking to do that with i, which I knew was going to be compared unfavourably to 69 Love Songs no matter what I did. As with Tusk by Fleetwood Mac, where they knew it was going to be denounced as no Rumours by everyone in the world, and as a result it’s actually better than Rumours. I’ve already made my Tusk, so this is...” Tango in the Night? “Tango in the Night, yes.” 50 Song Memoir will be released on Nonesuch in March.