Since the assassination of John F Kennedy was captured on camera – by a tourist – American presidents have been followed by TV crews almost everywhere they go. But concern for security or spin still covertly restricts access – so there’s a provocative promise in the title of Inside Obama’s White House, a four-part behind-the-scenes series on BBC2.Unmissable for anyone interested in the art of either politics or documentary-making, the series delivers extraordinary anecdotal access, with dozens of key Obama employees fascinatingly footnoting archive footage of themselves looking younger and more hopeful.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inside Obama’s White House: watch a clip from the first episode – videoYet the title exaggerates the extent to which the cameras have been allowed inside the presidential residence, though clever employment is made of the sort of frame usually cut from news reports – Obama in corridors, stairwells and theatre wings just before and after big televised moments. Fleeting images from the back of the presidential motorcade also encourage the sense that viewers are inside the bubble. However, a note on the version released for press previews – “final programmes will include Obama interview” – indicates the difficulty of getting to talk to the best-protected person in the world. Access, it’s often said, is the biggest talent a documentary-maker can have and the dream of all filmmakers is the televisual equivalent of the “access all areas” lanyard at rock gigs. However, genuine AAA-TV is rare, mainly because what would amount to success for the filmmaker would mean failure for the subject – as is proved in a number of areas.Royal       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The problem with queen TV ... 1969’s Royal Family. Photograph: Reginald Davis/REX/ShutterstockIn the UK, the holy grails of access for broadcasters have been Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle and Balmoral. The first to claim the prize was Richard Cawston, whose documentary Royal Family (1969), one of the few programmes ever to have been screened by both the BBC and ITV, was allowed into state rooms and to a royal Highland barbecue. However, concerns from historians and scholars about the risks “of letting daylight in on majesty” have meant that equivalent projects have been rare, including Edward Mirzeoff’s Elizabeth R (1992) and Michael Waldman’s Our Queen (2014). The Duke of Edinburgh was hospitalised while Waldman was shooting Our Queen – and the documentary maker was not allowed to ask any questions about the health scare. The problem with queen TV is that the rules of engagement are decided entirely by the Palace, which tightly controls filming (the royal family even retains copyright). Restrictions have increased since the controversy over a misleading trailer for the 2014 series A Year With the Queen, which falsely implied that the monarch had flounced out of a photoshoot. Institutional The rewards for audiences, but risks for participants, of access television are well illustrated by The House (1996), which went behind the scenes at the Royal Opera House (ROH). Calculated to demystify an artform seen as elitist, the series in fact exposed chaotic management, endemic over-spending and artistic egomania. A peculiarity of this fiasco was that the general director of the ROH who let in the cameras was Jeremy Isaacs, a former head of Thames TV and Channel 4, who therefore knew more about the medium than any other institutional boss at the time. This knowledge, though, seems to have made him overconfident about the benefits of screen exposure. Memories of The House are a major reason that artistic outfits now favour backstage coverage controlled by the organisation itself, such as the online Inside the Royal Ballet or this Easter’s RSC-BBC collaboration Shakespeare Live.Political       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gold standard ... Chris Patten in The Last Governor. Photograph: POOL/REUTERSInside Obama’s White House is produced by Norma Percy for Brook-Lapping, the production company established by the journalist Brian Lapping. Percy and Lapping are the superstars of revelatory historico-political documentary. In shows including Watergate, The Death of Yugoslavia, Endgame in Ireland, The Iraq War and The Last Governor, they have achieved access to all sides, from presidential level downwards (presumably without paying the sort of cash book publishers regularly shell out for far blander revelations from the corridors of power). Future historians should put up statues to Lapping, Percy and their colleagues for the astonishing fact-bank they have established.CorporateIf Brook-Lapping are the gold standard, corporate showcases are at the baser end of the scale. In recent years, viewers can be sure that any business that suffers damaging publicity – whether a shop, airline or police force – will soon become the subject of a TV series that tries to offer a positive impression of the organisation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The baser end of the scale ... A Very British Airline. A Very British Airline (BBC2, 2014) was typical of the form, and it is unlikely to have been much different if BA had made its own three-parter to try and encourage customer satisfaction. Similar doubts troubled viewers of The Met (BBC1, 2015), which felt like an exercise in reassuring viewers who might believe reports that the British police is institutionally racist and prone to shooting innocent people. It’s not coincidental that airlines and police forces are outfits that can use the excuse of “operational security” to prevent certain scenes being featured. But the problem of partial access affects anyone who tries to make a programme about anything that comes with its own PR department: the sight of the cameras being asked to leave a particular meeting has become a signature of the genre.Personal      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Willingness to expose all ... Keeping Up with the Kardashians. Photograph: Startraks Photo/REX/ShutterstockKim Kardashian West’s willingness to expose full-frontal images of herself has brought a visual literalness to the idea of Access All Areas television, and Keeping Up With the Kardashians (E!, since 2007) is the market-leader in a subset of back-room documentaries in which a family becomes a product or brand.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Devilish ... Hoff The Record. Photograph: Ollie Upton Encouraged by the phenomena of webcams and vlogging, such TV shows create the illusion of having CCTV streamed from a celebrity residence. An intriguing variation is Hoff the Record (Dave, 2015), which appeared to offer unmediated access to the daily life of the artist now known as David Hoff, but was more knowing about the artifice involved than the Kardashians are. This form of broadcasting probably began with Tantrums and Tiaras, a 1997 documentary about Sir Elton John, made by his own company, Rocket Pictures, and directed by his now-husband David Furnish. Sir Elton was sometimes recklessly candid, but editorial control remained very close to home, which, from Royal Family on, has always been the drawback of AAA-TV.• Inside Obama’s White House starts tonight at 9pm on BBC2.