Snapshot: My parents setting off on honeymoonThis photograph speaks to me of love and distance. It shows my parents, Arthur and Rosa Shirley, starting on the journey of their life together – leaving for their honeymoon in August 1933 from my paternal grandmother, Alice Kate’s, house in Westcliff-on-Sea (that’s her and her husband at the gate).I recognise this couple: my father, tall, calm, reassuring, yet reticent and with a certain deference in his smile; my mother, sharper, more engaged, more up-for-anything, what today we might call “feisty”. I like her jaunty knapsack and those crisply pressed trousers. The bike is a 500cc 1928 Sunbeam “longstroke” tourer. Neither of my parents is wearing a crash helmet, of course.I recognise this couple, but I never knew them. By the time I was born, in 1943, they had suffered the sudden loss of their first child, my sister Jennifer Anne, at the age of five, from meningitis – on, as if the pain of death was not sufficiently exquisite, my mother’s 39th birthday.It was an event with terrible consequences. My mother had a nervous breakdown and took to roaming the London underground for days at a time. Years later, I met a man who had once found her weeping in a heap outside the British Museum. My father, working in the City by day and driving a wartime fire engine by night, turned in on himself. There were suggestions of infidelity, and friends told me they had nearly split up.But they stayed together. They did what people did in those days: they carried on. They quickly had another child, and brought me up as best they could. They were loyal, supportive parents, but not, it ever felt to me, imbued with much warmth. My mother was anxious, uncertain, managing, overprotective; my father was dutiful, caring but always just beyond a real connection.Forty or so years later, my mother finally found her voice. Slowly, over many months, she spoke to me about my sister and the impact of her death – the loneliness, the despair, the emptiness of that loss. And through her tears I came to understand something of the love that these two people, my parents, had felt for each other, and how that love had sustained them through this unimaginable trauma. And how, in their quiet, unsung way, they had survived to make a frame in which my life could flourish.Looking at this photo of them now, fresh and young, and filled with energy for the morrow, reminds me of the substance of that love. And how they were happy once.John ShirleyPlaylist: The sound of hope and promise of springApril 5th by Talk Talk“Come gentle spring / Come at winter’s end / Gone is the pallor from a promise that’s nature’s gift”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At a loose end I offer to help my dad, an architect, measure up a building site on the promise of a cup of tea and an apple pie. We go somewhere in Kent, commuter belt and instantly forgettable. Dad will design something high density, within budget and then wait for ever to get paid. He treats each job as if it will be the next big thing, that one day he will be the developer, not just the architect of another person’s scheme.As we sit in a traffic jam, reclined in the racing-style seats of his pride and joy (an Opel Manta GTE), I find my brother’s cassette The Colour of Spring by Talk Talk and press “Play”. The big hit from the album was Life’s What You Make It, which is undeniably wonderful. Then comes the afterglow, something strange yet beautiful entitled April 5th. It is so difficult to describe, even after so many years. It sounds spacious, sparing in notes and words and yet it offers so much, the promise of spring. It has stayed with me ever since.I have it on every device – I need to know that wherever I am I can hear it. It feels so private, rarely do I say, “You must listen to April 5th …” It is not easy to share something that is moving but equally beyond your understanding. Yet I feel everyone needs a song like this. To me, it is the sound of hope and, 30 years later, I still need that song.Leigh MorlandWe love to eat: Maki’s tempura udon, British style      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maki’s tempura udon, British styleIngredients (serves 4)4 battered cod fillets3 or 4 shiitake mushrooms, sliced1 large carrot, sliced3 or 4 thin spring onions, chopped100g baby leaf spinach (optional)2 pints water1 teaspoon fish stock2 packets (300g) of quick-cook udon noodles Assorted chilli pepper for seasoningPut the fish fillets into a pre-heated oven for about 30 to 40 minutes. Make a soup from the vegetables, water and fish stock and bring to the boil. Simmer for a few minutes.The udon will take only about three to four minutes to cook and there is no need to wash the noodles. Add the udon to the soup, stir and simmer. Plonk the fish fillets on top of the soup and voila! A key part of the dish is to season it with assorted chilli pepper, rather than the traditional salt and pepper.Make, my wife, often has to improvise when she cooks Japanese food, as she is unable to find the right ingredients. We all agree that replacing tempura (battered seafood and vegetables) with battered fish fillets is a masterstroke. But you need to make sure you don’t leave the fish fillets in the soup too long, otherwise they can become a bit soggy.When our family came to live in the UK from Japan in 2011, adapting to a new diet was one of the many hurdles to negotiate. Sean and Moe (then nine and seven) even had to learn how to use knives and forks. Rice, which had been the backbone of their diet, temporarily took a back seat and in came potatoes and sandwiches.However, Sean, Moe and Maki have got stuck in to experiencing other exotic British delicacies such as faggots, fish fingers, spotted dick and trifle. I never imagined that going to the supermarket would become a cultural experience.Jason MurrayWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.