Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice may have earned critical derision, but the next new superhero movie of the season, Marvel’s Captain America: Civil War, has impressed reviewers from the movie trade press. The film is released on 6 May. The importance of older cinemagoers and Captain America buzz – the Dailies film podcast It gets five stars from Total Film’s Jordan Farley, who called it a “damn-near-perfect popcorn crowd-pleaser”. He writes:  If 2011’s The First Avenger was a war movie, and its 2014 sequel a paranoia-fuelled thriller, Civil War starts as a muscular crime movie in the mould of Michael Mann’s Heat, the Russo brothers significantly upping their game in terms of high-impact, shield-slinging action. In Variety, Justin Chang predicted a $1bn box office take for the “suprisingly fleet-footed” movie and said: “This is the rare Marvel sequel that feels like not just a continuation but a culmination.”  The Russos handle the action with growing assurance and impressive range, shooting the early fight scenes with an almost ‘Bourne’-style handheld intensity, in contrast with the more classically framed skirmishes that follow. Even more impressively, the film feels sincerely invested in the questions it raises about freedom vs responsibility, heroism vs vigilantism, and what those distinctions say about the individuals making them. Sheri Linden of the Hollywood Reporter says the film is overlong at 146 minutes, but that fans will not be disappointed. She adds:   In many ways the movie’s red-blue divide is far more nuanced than the split in US electoral politics. But the screenplay’s angsting over the ethics of being a crime-stopper is also, finally, an excuse for more pummeling clashes. There’s the complicating matter of a ruthless villain Zemo (Daniel Brühl) and the race to stop him. And, not least, there’s the necessity of world-colliding skirmishes between Team Cap and Team Iron Man, their superpowers on showstopping display in a spectacular sequence at the Leipzig airport that benefits from flashes of humor and self-awareness, as well as Trent Opaloch’s dynamic camerawork.Dan Jolin of Empire magazine also gives the film five stars, calling it the best Marvel film yet.  Who needs a villain when you have Steve and Tony? Both protagonists. Both antagonists. And drawing other power-people to their cause in surprising ways. The clashes go far beyond the set-up squabbles of Avengers Assemble. Or even that other big 2016 superhero showdown. Forget Batman v Superman. Here you get Ant-Man v Spider-Man, Hawkeye v Black Widow, Scarlet Witch v Vision, The Winter Soldier v Black Panther and (well, duh) Captain America v Iron Man, all rolled into one. And that is what you call the ultimate Marvel superhero event. Five things we learned from Marvel's final Captain America: Civil War trailer USA Today’s Brian Truitt gives the movie three and a half stars out of four, hailing “outstanding” performances from Chris Evans as Steve Rogers and Robert Downey Jr as Tony Stark and calling the film “a goldmine for Marvel nerds”.  The movie also features the impressive introductions of Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman), a Wakandan prince bearing claws and a grudge, and a new Spider-Man (Tom Holland). Previous movies have had issues balancing the youthful banter and scientific confidence of the comic book wallcrawler, but Holland nails the role in every aspect.Both those guys and many more are involved in the aforementioned big brawl, a massive airport throwdown between the bickering heroes. It’s a brilliantly crafted affair featuring new team-ups and fabulous dialogue (credit to screenwriters Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely) ultimately heisted by surprising scene-stealers Spidey and Ant-Man (Paul Rudd).Only Scott Mendelson in Forbes strikes a less laudatory tone, saying that the film suffers from too many characters and that its middle section is largely redundant. He concludes:   Captain America: Civil War is a good movie, one worth enjoying on the biggest screen you can find, and one that will entertain the hell out of lots of people even as it goes against the grain in some surprising ways. But the film is periodically an exercise in long-form frustration, one which flirts with The Idiot Plot more often than it should. 