There are, in the annals of modern experience, those events so momentous they fall into the category of things to tell one’s grandchildren. Perhaps you saw Pavarotti sing, or Beckham score a goal. Maybe you were there when the Berlin wall fell, or Mandela came out of prison. To these iconic moments came a new addition this week, as a roomful of New Yorkers were given the chance to see Marie Kondo fold a T-shirt.I’m not really joking. Kondo’s book, The Life Changing Magic of Tidying Up, has sold more than 2m copies and her follow-up, Spark Joy, is gaining similar momentum. She was in New York on Wednesday night as part of the publicity tour and appeared at the Barnes & Noble in Union Square to share the KonMari method live with her followers. At precisely 7pm, a doll-like 31-year-old stepped out on stage and the crowd went as wild as those for whom happiness is a well-ordered underwear drawer can go.Penguin Books UK (@PenguinUKBooks)Step two: once the socks are lying flat, fold in thirds - watch @MarieKondo demonstrate in this video. #SparkJoy pic.twitter.com/V8UGMQqQ5cJanuary 15, 2016It is easy to mock Kondo’s methods and I have spent many pleasurable hours in the last few months doing so. She says silly things like “open a dialogue with your wardrobe”. She has no apparent sense of humour. On the other hand, if you hire an organizing consultant, perhaps you don’t need them wise-cracking their way through your closet like Bob Hope, and a large number of people I think sensible swear by her.On Wednesday night, however, I wondered how she would go down with this particular crowd. New Yorkers are many things, but credulous is not one of them and, although a large part of the audience were devoted Kondo fans, there was also a section of agnostics. T-shirt folding is the new shopping – bring on Marie Kondo’s decluttering revolution “She talks about putting bags in bags,” whispered a woman to her neighbour before the event started, and they both stared into their shoulder bags with a mixture of hope and bemusement.Sitting next to me in the front row was 80-year-old Gladys. “I’m never going to be neat,” she said. In fact, her attempts to tidy her apartment had merely resulted in her accumulating “the largest decluttering library in Manhattan”. Among these was Kondo’s first book. “Something in it really blew me away,” said Gladys. “Which is when she said why do you want it? Why? Why? Why?”O, reason not the need! Kondo could have sorted out King Lear in a jiffy. Anyway here she was, the personification of her books – tiny, tidy, meticulously neat. Speaking through a translator, she said: “at the age of five, I was very interested in tidying. I devoted all my teenage years to tidying. My thesis at college was on tidying. I started my consulting business at 19.”On a screen behind her, Kondo brought up a photo of a disorganized looking bedroom and told us it was a client’s in the moments before she got cracking.“Louder!” shouted Gladys.“But after my lesson …” said Kondo.“Ahhhh!” murmured the crowd. The second slide showed an almost empty room in which all the clutter was gone.“I can’t hear a thing,” said Gladys.Now, said Kondo, she was going to talk us through the KonMari method, “which many of you have tried!” The crowd cheered.“Psssst!” hissed Gladys. Kondo looked over and for a split-second, there it was: the flash of terror on her face at the unassailable messiness of humanity. A minute later, she was back on track. “Sort by category not location!” she said and told us about a client who, after heaping her kitchen wear into one big pile, discovered she had 200 teacups.  Marie Kondo at Barnes and Nobles. Photograph: Emma BrokesHere she paused, coyly, like a musician on the brink of playing her biggest hit. “Does it spark joy?” she said to warm laughter from the crowd. Then she folded three tops – one of them kimono-style, the Mount Everest of shirt-shapes from a folding perspective – and took questions from the audience.If you strip away the nonsensical elements, all Kondo is saying is don’t be a slave to your possessions – and this is what most of her fans took away with them. After the event, Mary-Carol, a 24-year-old from Astoria, acknowledged that “communicating with your clothes” was a bit wacky, but the rest of it made sense. “For example: scarves,” she said. “I used to have 200 scarves in a box at the back of my wardrobe. I could never find any, so I’d keep buying more.” Now that they were all neatly folded, she could see what she had, and, when she pulled one out in the morning, it gave her a “tiny moment of joy”.Some read larger things into Kondo. “It’s a metaphor for the discernment which is obscured by consumerism,” said Miriam. “It’s a way to enlightenment, or self-actualization,” said Laura.There are limitations to the Kondo method. When a member of the audience asked, troll-like, how she would deal with a “clinically diagnosed hoarder”, Kondo replied blandly: “if the person gets inspired by my book, it works for anyone who gets joy from reading it” – a reminder, perhaps, that fanatical neatness is as much a symptom of a larger disorder as hoarding.Still, who wants to be a slob? On the escalator afterwards, three young women were discussing the event. “That was magical!” said one.“She is so peaceful,” said another.The third paused and, gathering herself up, issued the greatest compliment a woman can receive in this city, one that no amount of exortations to talk to your linen-cupboard undermine. “She’s so well put together.”