The sun is up, and still I struggle with the column that I usually complete before midnight. Feeling I should say at least something about the disaster in Orlando, I can’t get started. “A writer,” Thomas Mann once said, “is someone for whom writing is harder than it is for other people.” Yes, but surely it’s not meant to be this hard.My first thought on the subject is so tricky to write down that the words refuse to connect, but here goes. It might be a waste of time hoping to make the next Omar Mateen tolerant of gay people, or less confused about possibly being gay himself, when he has not yet grasped the much more elementary principle that a fit of pique is not a sufficient excuse for mowing down a hundred strangers.The west, I fear, will never find out how Mateen didn’t learn this until it starts asking itself how Clive James did learn it. In many respects, when I was young, I was fully as dumb as Mateen. Several of his acutely repellent selfies remind me of when I tried to convince my bathroom mirror that I was Elvis Presley. At the local Presbyterian church, I was in distant love with at least two of the girls in the choir and, like most Australian males at the time, I grew up as a chauvinist. Eventually, after moving to Britain, I caught up with the modern world, mainly because Britain had already done the same.But I also grew up believing that mass murder was not a legitimate means of expressing anger or confusion. The mystery, I think, lies not in how the awful Mateen grew up believing that it was, but in how I didn’t. What went right? The society around me, the complex product of a long history of a gradually evolving balance between order and freedom, somehow civilised a tantrum-driven monster of the ego. When I was throwing my toys out of the cot, I was a terrorist in a nappy.Clive James: ‘Is it time to retrain as an actor?’ But I wasn’t allowed out until I had stopped doing it. Fifty years later, a mentally-challenged 29‑year‑old male killed 35 people at Port Arthur in Tasmania. Mainly due to the twin blessings that Australia was a country small enough to be governable and that John Howard was a wise choice to govern it, new gun laws were brought in and it became that much harder for some ratbag to massacre people on an impulse.But in my day we all grew up convinced that such behaviour was wrong anyway, because a violent man was not more of a man, he was less of a one. Who convinced us? And why are all these ghosts standing in my garden?