My uncle and aunt lived in Wales, and my memories of summer holidays there are full not only of the buzzing of bees and the whirring of the lawnmower, but also of the tall, spiky plants in their garden that bore a strange, exotic vegetable. Artichoke suppers were a family tradition: we’d eat them with beurre noir, dunking in the leaves, then the hearts, before mopping up the butter with bread. It was a brilliantly economical supper for my mother, who turned it into a ritual that we came to love.I now eat artichokes in as many ways as I can when they’re in season. If you need just the hearts, as for today’s recipes, boil them whole and have the leaves as a cook’s perk, or as a starter; otherwise buy ready-prepared hearts in jars or tins.Artichoke heart and summer vegetable tempura with honey saffron mayonnaiseThere’s no great secret to tempura batter: use a deep pan so you don’t need as much oil, and get it up to heat before frying. Serves six to eight.2 courgettes1 small aubergine8 artichoke hearts1 handful fresh sage leaves (optional)Salt and freshly ground black pepperSunflower or vegetable oil, for fryingFor the mayonnaise1 garlic clove, peeled and finely chopped2 egg yolks½ tsp honey1 tbsp white-wine vinegarJuice of 1 lemon500ml sunflower oil 1 big pinch saffron threads, soaked in 2 tbsp hot water for 30 minutesFor the batter2 free-range egg yolksAbout 350ml iced sparkling water200g self-raising flour1 tsp cornflourStart with the mayo: whizz the garlic, egg yolks, honey, vinegar and a tablespoon of lemon juice in a food processor for 30 seconds, then, with the motor running, slowly drip the oil through the funnel until the mixture starts to thicken and emulsify. With the motor still running, now pour in the rest of the oil in a thin, steady stream, then add the saffron and its soaking liquid. Season, then stir in lemon juice to taste: you want a bright and lemony mayo that’s not too acidic. If it’s a bit on the thick side, loosen with a tablespoon of cold water.Cut the courgettes and aubergine into two-bite pieces and cut the artichoke hearts in half. Whisk the egg yolks for the batter with the fizzy water, then stir in both flours, but only just to combine: you want some lumps, because they’ll help with the crispness. Add the vegetables and sage, if using.Fill a narrow, heavy-based pan with enough oil to come 5cm up the sides and heat to 180C (if you don’t have a thermometer, that’s the stage when a cube of bread browns and crisps within 30 seconds). Frying each different vegetable at a time, lift them out of the batter and fry in batches so as not to overcrowd the pan. Cook until crisp and pale gold all over, then transfer to a plate lined with kitchen paper and season with salt. Keep warm and repeat with the other veg. Serve hot with the mayo alongside. (Alternatively, fry everything in advance and reheat in a hot oven: the tempura won’t be as light and crisp as it is straight from the fryer, but it’ll still be very good.)Artichoke heart, pea and broad bean stew with soft polentaThis comforting, silky stew is a celebration of summer vegetables, and definitely worthy of a good bottle of olive oil and fresh parmesan, which will transform it into a bowl of rich, savoury flavours. Serves four.25g butter2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil3 shallots, peeled and thinly sliced3 garlic cloves, peeled and thinly slicedSalt and freshly ground black pepperA few sprigs fresh thyme, leaves picked1 sprig rosemary, picked and chopped2 bay leaves2 globe artichokes hearts cut into 2cm-wide chunks (or 200g jarred artichoke hearts, drained)200ml white wine250g podded broad beans (fresh or frozen)250g podded peas (fresh or frozen)1 big handful fresh mint leaves, finely chopped1 big handful fresh parsley leaves, finely choppedFor the polenta250g quick-cook polenta50g butter60g grated parmesan, plus extra to serveExtra-virgin olive oil, to serveHeat the butter and oil in a wide, deep pan, add the shallots and garlic, and season generously. Fry on a medium heat until the shallots are softened, about five minutes, then stir in the thyme, rosemary, bay, artichoke hearts and wine. Bring to a boil and simmer for three minutes. If you’re using fresh artichoke hearts, now add 100ml water, cover and simmer until they are tender, for about 12 minutes, before adding the beans and peas; if you are using jarred or tinned hearts, don’t add any extra water, and just stir in the beans and peas after you have simmered the hearts, wine and herbs.Leave the stew to simmer for four to five minutes, until the beans and peas are tender, then lift out and discard the bay leaves. Stir in the mint and parsley, and adjust the seasoning to taste.Make the polenta according to the packet instructions and, when ready, stir in the butter and grated parmesan. Season to taste, then spoon into shallow bowls. Top the soft polenta with ladles of the stew and serve with a wedge of parmesan, a bottle of good extra-virgin olive oil and a pepper grinder, so that people can dress their bowls with extras of all three.And for the rest of the week…The saffron mayo is great with fish: dollop some on a simple cod stew with tomato and fennel (and maybe more saffron), and serve with crostini, say; or use leftovers for dunking artichoke leaves, or in fish finger sandwiches, or even in a posh egg mayonnaise. The stew keeps for three to four days in the fridge; its vivid, green colour will fade, but the flavour gets better and better.