Tom Hiddleston: five best moments The last time we saw Tom Hiddleston’s Loki on the big screen, the shapeshifting supervillain was revealed to be masquerading as his dear old dad Odin at the tail end of Thor: The Dark World. It’s a tantalizing setup for next installment Ragnarok, even if the last really great Thor movie was Kenneth Branagh’s 2011 series opener.Fans of the trickster god had better hope the next episode knocks it out of the park, because according to a new interview on the Daily Beast, Ragnarok could be Hiddleston’s final appearance in the Marvel cinematic universe. “Thor 3 will be cool because I’ve not done it for four years,” said Hiddleston. “I love working with Chris [Hemsworth]. This will be my last time out of the gate.”The British actor immediately clarified that future appearances might merely be up in the air, adding: “They haven’t got their ducks in a row yet. They make it up as they go along,” when asked if he had given up on being part of the Avengers: Infinity War double-header that’s due to make a major splash for Marvel in 2018 and 2019. But at the very least, it sounds like the Disney-owned studio are dragging their heels on offering an extension on Hiddleston’s current deal. And that seems like a serious error.Crawling back: will late entry to Marvel universe give Spider-Man a fresh start? The fact is that Marvel is short on barnstorming, larger-than-life supervillains. Hugo Weaving’s Red Skull was killed off in Captain America: The First Avenger, and the studio has yet to port over Spider-Man’s nemesis the Green Goblin from Sony’s superhero movies after striking a deal to bring the wallcrawler back into the fold. Infinity War will centre on giant blue alien death god Thanos, seen recently in Guardians of the Galaxy, but Josh Brolin’s all-CGI baddie was one of the weakest things about James Gunn’s bombastic comic book space opera. He could certainly do with a little help from Loki to gather up all those infinity stones.Even better, and if the Norse deity is not required for Infinity War, why not put Loki in his own Planet Hulk-style movie in which he’s exiled into space to survive in an entirely new environment, far from Asgard and the nine realms?Deadpool just proved that nasty boys are all the rage, while the huge hype surrounding Warner/DC’s Suicide Squad, five months before the film gets anywhere near multiplexes, suggests audiences are more than ready for heroes who are twisted, soulless psychopaths – providing they’ve got decent one-liners and a barrel full of punk attitude. Hiddleston’s Loki is probably the only villain in the Marvel universe with the bad boy chops to compete with Harley Quinn et al. In Marvel’s early days there were regular reports of penny-pinching, with the studio keen to tie stars down to multiple movie deals on a budget. Yet Thor star Chris Hemsworth’s arrival on Forbes’s highest-paid actors in Hollywood list last year suggests the success of the studio’s superhero universe is starting to filter through to its main players. So it would be good to think money isn’t an issue here.For many fans, while the Australian actor might be the one with his name up in lights when Ragnarok rolls around in November 2017, it’s Hiddleston who’s the bigger draw in the Thor movies and beyond. After all, Marvel rolled out Loki, not his heroic sibling, to work the crowds at Comic-Con when they really needed to hype the latest Avengers movie a few years back.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hiddleston as Loki during Marvel’s Thor: The Dark World presentation at Comic-Con 2013 in San Diego, California. Photograph: Alberto E Rodriguez/WireImageFive things we learned from Marvel's final Captain America: Civil War trailer Hemsworth has spoken in the past about how much Hiddleston brings to the table. Thor is reduced to something of a bit-part player in Avengers affairs when Loki’s not around, happy to help when there are bad guys to be smashed but otherwise something of a second-rank superhero behind Robert Downey Jr’s Iron Man and Chris Evans’s Captain America. Marvel hasn’t even bothered to include the son of Odin in the upcoming Captain America: Civil War, presumably because the puny affairs of humans pale in comparison with the threat that’s likely to be faced in Ragnarok. US audiences have yet to see Hiddleston in the excellent The Night Manager spy miniseries, which debuts on 19 April on AMC. It features the British actor in full James Bond mode as an undercover agent trying to reel in an evil arms dealer (House’s Hugh Laurie) whose leggy girlfriend he just happens to be making whoopee with. Hiddleston is superb in the title role, yet it’s a restrained performance in comparison with his spiky yet multi-layered turn as Loki, with Laurie getting the bulk of the scenery-chewing moments. You wonder if even James Bond, another part the 35-year-old star has been linked to, would ever offer up quite the same opportunity for operatic bombast as playing Thor’s evil stepbrother.Loki may just be the role of a lifetime for Hiddleston, a perfect storm of actor, role and studio. Earth’s mightiest heroes might be about to engage in a full-scale Civil War, but it’s the battle to keep Marvel’s finest smooth-talking bad guy around that really matters.