Paul O’Grady’s For the Love Of Dogs New Year Special 8pm, ITVAnother pupdate from Battersea Dogs & Cats Home, in a show built on two elements that are impossible to dislike: slow-mo shots of fetching, slobbering and begging, and O’Grady performing improv comedy miniatures. Plus, the final reveals of adorables taken in by delighted new owners from around the country are heartwarming without being too cloying, as O’Grady tells the stories of some of his favourite Battersea pooches. Jack SealeYellowstone: The Wildest Winter 9pm, BBC2The temperature can vary by around 80C over a year, and it sits on top of enough magma to fill the Grand Canyon 11 times over. So Yellowstone Park is bound to boast some interesting flora and fauna. This three-part series begins in winter when grizzlies wrestle bison corpses out of frozen lakes, and owls hunt through the crisply bitter nights. It all looks utterly gorgeous. Kate Humble presents, in suitably awed and breathless style. Phil HarrisonRobson Crusoe: A Surprising Adventure 9pm, ITVNo, this wasn’t hatched by Alan Partridge and put in a memo to Lynn. This is happening. Since he was 11, Robson Green has dreamed of living on a desert island. Now, four decades on, he gets his chance, as he’s plonked in the middle of the South China Sea, with cameras recording his reactions. Will it live up to his explanations? Hard not to believe that the badly punning title came first and the “lifelong dream” second. David StubbsCelebrity Big Brother: Live Launch 9pm, Channel 5The theme for this 19th series is “All Stars Versus New Blood”, as half the slebs have lived this nightmare before. Raising the question: who’d be damaged/needy/vainglorious enough to enter the house of horror yet again? At the time of writing, Katies Price and Hopkins (one-time winner and runner-up respectively) and irritant-stirrer extraordinaire Perez Hilton are rumoured to be among them. Let the Hunger Games begin! Ali CatterallTattoo Fixers 9pm, E4The nation’s most regretted inkings are once again paraded on telly as the Fixers return for 2017. Whether you accidentally got Lionel Richie’s head tattooed on your chest or an ill-advised poo emoji on your back, they have the solution (after they’ve guffawed in your face). This week, Sketch gets a visit from John, whose enthusiasm for extraterrestrials has landed him with a bad tat. And Jay gets a visit from a man with a small but embarrassing problem. Hannah VerdierRevolting 10pm, BBC2Heydon Prowse and Jolyon Rubinstein of The Revolution Will Be Televised return with another satirical sketch show. Brexiteers, hippies, CEOs, Corbynites, Blairites and millennials are all trolled on the street by characters such as rightwing journalist Dale Mailey and Ukip campaigner Denis Pound, who finds some deeply disturbing ideas for policy from folk on the streets of Loughton in Essex. There’s a Day Today vibe, but with a fraction of the laughs. Ben ArnoldVice Does America 10.30pm, VicelandVice’s honest/amazed takes make it just the right organisation to report on the US election. Here, the engaging trio of Abdullah Saeed, Wilbert L Cooper and Martina De Alba commence a presidential-themed road trip from California to Washington DC. They start by gathering wisdom from an Obama impersonator, before moving into the belly of the beast via “super-super rightwing libertarian nutjob” Cliven Bundy. John RobinsonFilm choiceCliffhanger (Renny Harlin, 1993) 10.10pm, ITV4Rocky in the Rockies: Sylvester Stallone is a mountain rescuer tangling with crooked John Lithgow (affecting a slightly effete British accent) and his gang who have crash-landed with a stash of ill-gotten cash high up in the treacherous peaks. Die Hard 2 director Renny Harlin arranges some impressive dangling-man heroics, and if it doesn’t scale the highest heights, it’s still among Sly’s best ventures outside the boxing ring. Paul HowlettLive sportT20 International Cricket: New Zealand v Bangladesh The opening fixture in a three-match series from Napier. 6am, Sky Sports 1WTA Tennis: Brisbane In the lead-up to the Aussie Open, the Brisbane International begins. 9am, BT Sport 1Premier League Football: Bournemouth v Arsenal Coverage of the top-flight fixture (kick-off 8pm). 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1