Floating Points, On tourLike Kieran Hebden, Sam Shepherd is a UK DJ-producer whose music roams a sort of record collection of the mind: from funk to jazz, to electronica, hip-hop and post-rock. In 2010, the former neuroscientist was making records such as Post Suite, which took inspiration from 60s jazz and the epic intimations of soundtrack music. His 2015 debut album Elaenia found him working with a great many different inspirations, but possibly in a more subtle way, finding the connective tissue between Detroit techno, electric Miles Davis, and kosmische music of early 70s Germany. It’s head music for the feet: live strings and brass add spice.Electric Brixton, SW2, Wed & Thu; O2 Ritz Manchester, Fri; touring to 14 FebJRLoyle Carner, On tourWhile grime artists want to knock down doors, Loyle Carner seems more the kind of fellow to charm his way over the threshold. Old school? If he was any more old school he’d have a cricket pavilion and a lacrosse team. He specialises in a pleasant, technically accomplished hip-hop which seems to hark back more to US masters such as Rakim than any British inspirations. In the course of his records so far, tasteful has very much been a watchword: this is a presentable young man, and his songs sound like something on an Acid Jazz compilation that Paul Weller might once have got into. He also has a story. Powerfully moved by the death of his stepfather, Carner has written stuff which seems to aspire to join the ranks of Amy Winehouse in a confessional, but still commercial, mode.Hare & Hounds, Birmingham, Tue; The Deaf Institute, Manchester, Wed; Kitchen Street Pop Up, Liverpool, Thu; Stealth, Nottingham, Fri; touring to 21 FebJRJlin, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   JlinFootwork – a subset of hip-hop native to Chicago – is a sound that’s simultaneously hyperactive and mesmerising, its raygun noises and samples far more important than the identities of the performers. Jlin (born Jerrilynn Patton in Gary, Indiana – a place famous for its steel mills, where she works shifts) is one of the first producers from the scene to be recognised as an auteur. In a genre where danceability and chopped-up profanity can be an end in itself, Jlin is playing a longer game. On her debut, Dark Energy, she brings to footwork some of the conceptual heaviness associated with electronic artists such as Actress, and the more leftfield corners of grime. It could well be terrifying, but most likely in a good way.Corsica Studios, SE17, WedJRThe Residents, LondonThree years ago, seminal avant-garde pop and rock pranksters the Residents released an infomercial advertising a box containing a “mystery” item with a $5m price tag. Not content with that bonkers offer, at the same time they put 10 box sets on sale, each a fridge-freezer containing every record they’d ever released. Led by the masked Randy, other trademark daft antics have included countercultural concept albums, clunky pantomime rock, weird proto-industrial jams, and lots and lots of costumes. Most recognisable not by their faces but by their many masks (Ke$ha has borrowed the eyeball-headed tuxedo look), this show is the third part of their ongoing 40th anniversary activities. As well as revisiting that enormous back catalogue, they’re promising videos about “birth, rebirth, reincarnation and near-death experiences”. Hackney Empire, E8, FriJARamsey Lewis Quartet, London      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ramsey LewisOne of the founding fathers of funk and soul-jazz piano in the 1960s, and a US gold-selling hitmaker with The In Crowd, Ramsey Lewis created a rocking, hook-heavy style that set processions of fans bopping their way to the record stores, and processions of jazzers lining up to grumble about selling out. Lewis stuck to the formula for years, and spent much of his career on funky gospel-powered pop covers such as Hang On Sloopy and Wade In The Water. In later years, however, Lewis took to sharing the deeper insights into piano-playing and diverse musical styles he’d had all along, displaying as much enthusiasm for the inspirations of Tchaikovsky and Prokofiev as he did for such formidable jazz-piano models as Ahmad Jamal and McCoy Tyner. For these shows, Lewis is accompanied by guitarist Henry Johnson, bassist Joshua Ramos, and drummer Charles Heath.Ronnie Scott’s, W1, Thu to 13 FebJFAndriessen: M Is For Man, Mystery And Music, LondonLouis Andriessen is not only the leading Dutch composer of our time, but one of the most important figures in European music in the last half century, whose influence has spread far beyond that of his own works. The Barbican is showcasing his exhilarating music in three days of concerts, which will include a clutch of UK premieres as well as works by composers that have influenced him, from Bach to Reich. The first concert, given by the Britten Sinfonia, includes the song cycle La Passione; but Friday’s centrepiece is the first UK performance of Andriessen’s most recent stage work, La Commedia, a setting of passages from Dante’s Divine Comedy. The final concert, on 13 Feb, also includes a major UK first: Mysteriën, Andriessen’s most recent orchestral work, which is inspired by the writings of the Dutch theologian Thomas à Kempis.Barbican Hall, EC2, Tue, Fri & 13 FebAC