The other night I stood in a young, boozy crowd that roared and laughed with delight at a work of art that’s more than 400 years old. Yet now I see a depressing feature in the New York Times claims that “old master” art has lost all relevance, is no longer of much interest to collectors, and may even cease to be sold by major auction houses.The work of art that rocked Shakespeare’s Globe theatre on Friday was not a painting – it was A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Yet it was created in precisely the same era as the paintings the market is apparently falling out of love with. Why is the visual art of the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries losing favour when drama from that age can still pack ’em in?  The very term 'old master' is a horrible, destructive piece of pretension The New York Times asks if old master art can regain its “relevance.” Watching Shakespeare at the Globe offers a couple of answers. Make it new: productions of the Bard are popular because theatre is so good at revealing his contemporary pertinence. In fact, the Globe’s Dream goes as far as I’d ever want a theatre to do in that direction, including, ahem, changing some of Shakespeare’s words. This brings me to the second suggestion: make it democratic. The reported crisis in the old master market is the inevitable result of the snobbery and elitism that has suffocated paintings for far too long. The very term “old master” is a horrible, destructive piece of pretension – what does it even mean? The custodians of oil paintings often seem to revel in the obscurity of their taste, putting on exhibitions that flaunt erudite connoisseurship and have little to say to the general public. Eyes on the prize: the must-see art and design of autumn 2016 Yet the reality is very different: great paintings from the past are just as accessible and universal as Shakespeare. All you need to do is signal that. There’s no need to paint modern details into Renaissance art or give artworks snazzy new titles. You just need to point to the universal significance of this art. Put on an exhibition at the National Gallery called Sex and Death in Art. Why not?Shakespeare is actually less accessible than some painters fron his age – after all he has all those strange old words. Caravaggio and Rembrandt don’t present any such barrier. Looking at a Rembrandt portrait is a totally unmediated encounter with another soul. Time vanishes. You enter a world of existential shadow, caught by his gaze. When art museums put on exhibitions of truly great art they are huge hits. Rembrandt or Bosch can draw people from all over the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  El Greco’s Lady in a Fur Wrap, 1577–80 Photograph: Alamy/CSG CIC Glasgow Museums and Libraries CollectionsThis autumn’s exhibition Beyond Caravaggio at the National Gallery in London is exactly the kind of show museums need to put on. It starts with Caravaggio, a late Renaissance artist of huge modern appeal, and shows how his art influenced his time – in other words it uses him as a key to unlock art by painters many visitors won’t have heard of. Too much of the time, curators repress the universal appeal of great art by focusing on side issues and snobby footnotes. If the National Gallery explored the most attractive artists in its collection with more big shows on Bruegel, Bosch, Caravaggio and their like, it could sell out as fast as the Globe. And yet, I am not even sure if a decline in the popularity of the old masters worries me. Is it bad for El Greco if his prices go down or fewer people have heard of him? Actually, no. The artists who matter from the past will always matter. Fashion does not stale them. This applies to all culture. We celebrate Shakespeare’s popularity but he would still be a great writer if no one read him. Fewer people read Virgil, or Pope – yet they are still great authors: a classic is a classic. The most revered artist 200 years ago was the Renaissance painter Raphael. Today Raphael is far from popular – but it doesn’t do him any harm. His paintings are monuments of western culture that will always be preserved in museums. If you want to discover him you can. Perhaps it is a better fate to be obscured, ready to be rediscovered by curious art lovers. The great art cover-up: Renaissance nudity still has power to shock And there’s another reason to shrug off the art market’s philistinism. If great paintings are going cheap that’s good for museums. They could actually buy a few. Meanwhile owners of great works from earlier centuries will be less likely to cash them in on the art market, which will help to keep them in places like Britain that still have a lot of old art stashed away in stately homes. The peculiarity of art is its status as a commodity. Shakespeare’s plays are everyone’s possession; oil paintings are objects with an owner. Ideally all the art that matters would be in museums so that we all had access to it. In other words, the interests of auction houses are precisely opposite to the interests of the public. I don’t want great art to be expensive. I want it to be cheap – so it can be owned by the people. The best thing that can happen to the art of the Renaissance and Baroque ages is for it to become financially worthless. Then we can start to see it for the universal human creation it really is.