The other day, my husband strolled into my office bearing major booty in the form of a proof of A Gentleman in Moscow, the new novel by Amor Towles. It isn’t out here until February, but given that it has already been published in the US, I think it’s probably OK for me to say that it tells the story of one Count Alexander Rostov, an elegant Russian aristocrat who in 1922 is sentenced by a Bolshevik tribunal to house arrest in a luxury hotel. Should he step outside the Metropol’s door, he will be shot, and so, inside it he remains, for the next 32 years.I’d clean forgotten about Towles, whose first novel, Rules of Civility, came out in 2011. Five years ago, I opened that book with a certain amount of reluctance: the work of a former banker with dandy-ish clothes and (or so I read) a covetable Manhattan townhouse, it seemed, outwardly, to be little more than a quite brazen attempt to mash up Sex and the City and Breakfast at Tiffany’s. I remember thinking that even its author’s name – who is Amor Towles, if not a character in a Truman Capote short story? – came across as part of what we might call “the concept”. But then I began reading. Uh oh. Sometimes you just have to give in to a book, even one of which you (slightly) disapprove. There followed the most delightful few hours.When Rules of Civility begins, it is 1937, and our darling heroine, Katey Kontent, the daughter of a Russian immigrant, and her friend, Evie Ross, a gorgeous midwesterner, are celebrating New Year’s Eve in a New York jazz club, the city where they are hoping to make it big. Its gloomy interior means they can get away with their distinctly unglamorous clothes, and the cheapness of its gin means they can permit themselves more than one martini an hour. Only then… “Dibs,” says Evie. Into their lives, wearing a camel cashmere coat, walks Theodore “Tinker” Grey, the wealthy, waspy man – “you could just picture his forebear at the helm of the Mayflower” – who will change both of their lives. It is, I promise, as delicious as it sounds. One to cheer you up, whether you read it with a cocktail in your hand or not.