Will Deadpool lead to a deluge of hard-R comic book movies? I have seen the future, and it looks bright … but weird. This week, Warner Bros announced that it will be delivering an R-rated (here in the UK we call it 15) version of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice for the upcoming superhero smackdown’s home video release. At the same time there are rumblings that the next Wolverine movie – Hugh Jackman’s final turn as the adamantium-clawed mutant – will also be aimed at a more adult audience than its predecessors. Call it the Deadpool Effect: after Tim Miller’s potty-mouthed antihero took the global box office by storm (taking more than $500m in its first two weeks) everyone wants their superheroes to be more edgy.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Batman v Superman: watch the trailer for Zack Snyder’s superhero smackdownIn many ways it’s long overdue. Comic books in 2016 look nothing like their 1950s counterparts, so why should superhero movies stick to their kid-friendly roots? Batman has shunned the children’s market ever since Christopher Nolan reimagined him as a brooding crimefighter, his antagonists harbouring sociopathic visions of hell on Earth. Even Superman has grown up a bit: in trailers for Batman v Superman Henry Cavill exhibits a grim-faced countenance that would have had gentle giant Christopher Reeve running for the Kryptonian hills. And let’s not forget that the most anticipated of Warner Bros’ planned slate of movies based on DC Comics’ back catalogue is not Zack Snyder’s movie, but the crazy-gang noir that is David Ayer’s Suicide Squad. Suicide Squad's Harley Quinn is the new killer queen bee of superhero movies And yet if big-screen superheroes are slowly turning to the dark side, they are also returning to a cooler, meta-infused vision of their child-friendly roots. The Lego world offers the perfect medium for comic book titans to be wound back to their origins with bombastic hamminess, a la the 1960s version of Batman with its clownish baddies and stern-faced, spandex-clad heroes. In its own way Lego Batman, an upcoming spin-off of The Lego Movie, will offer just as many knowing nods to celebrated comic book tropes as Deadpool, but without the pegging jokes or sudden limb removal. If it’s a success – and The Lego Movie was one of 2014’s biggest hits – we could perhaps expect outings for Lego Superman, Lego Wonder Woman and more. Deadpool's R rating masks a simple fact: it's part of a genre that will never grow up But it’s not only in the Lego universe that superheroes are being reinvented for younger audiences. Last year’s Oscar-winning Disney Animation Studio venture Big Hero 6 took an old Marvel title and reimagined it as a Pixar-style paean to youthful creativity, in which superhero-like powers are within reach of any child willing to pay attention in science class. It even gave us the character of Fred (voiced by Deadpool’s TJ Miller), a teenage fanboy who quite simply refuses to believe that he won’t one day battle evil as a fire-breathing dragon-man – and is quite brilliantly proved right.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Deadpool – video reviewIn many ways – and Pixar’s The Incredibles and Disney’s Bolt are further examples – the old-fashioned superhero template, based on an unflinching belief in the triumph of decency over devilish deceit, has decamped wholesale to animated territory. And why should comic book fans complain when such a shift leaves so much room for live action superheroes to move into grownup terrain? So here’s to a future in which Lego Batman takes on Deadpool 2 at the multiplexes – and both sides win. As Fred from Big Hero 6 said: “I like the way this is heading!”