My access to this year’s £177,000 Oscars gift bag was limited. I didn’t get to go on the 15-day walking tour of Japan, nor did I receive the year of unlimited Audi rentals. I didn’t have any personal training sessions or vampire breast lifts. The £50 vodka never made it to me, nor the £33 water bottle.Mink eyelashes and armpit nappies: what are the worst Oscar goody bag gifts? But I did receive a box of fancy bogroll and some sort of armpit nappies. I’ve tested both products for you, all in the name of investigative journalism.Dandi antiperspirant patch (£15)The Dandi patch is a thin Elastoplast that absorbs your sweat for up to eight hours. And, to be fair, this is something I’m in desperate need of. I sweat chronically. When it’s warm, I sweat. When I exercise, I sweat. When I’m nervous, I sweat. The Dandi patch was specifically designed for armpits but, if they worked, I quite fancied the idea of using them to cover my face, back and crotch in the humid summer months.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest However, the Dandi patch has a catch. For them to work properly, your armpits must be entirely hairless, which mine haven’t been for about 25 years. This required half an hour of careful shaving, followed by the swift realisation that my bare armpits are obscene. Obscene. They look like a cross between a baby animal and a pile of discarded foreskins. Which, at least, gave me plenty of impetus to cover them up with Dandi patches.The patches themselves – applied like a sticking plaster – are fiddly to get on, not least because you have to do it in a mirror, and sometimes you accidentally make eye contact with yourself, at which point your reflection verbally scolds you for having such a stupid job. They tug at your skin a little while they’re on, too.But they do work. By the end of the trial, my pits were as fresh and dry as a pile of royal linen. The patches would easily catch enough sweat to mask the exertion of attacking an overzealous TMZ photographer, which is something the A-listers would surely appreciate. However, now I have to put up with several months of itchy regrowth. If you meet me at any point between now and August, please know that I’m only behaving this way because my armpit stubble has conspired to kill me.Joseph’s Toiletries Original Box (£39)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Now, this really is the epitome of luxury. This is exactly how the other half lives. Short of killing a swan and rubbing your bum on its back whenever you need the toilet, this is about as lavish as intimate hygiene gets. According to the manufacturers, the paper itself is “specially woven” and “vitamin-coated”, but that’s not why people use this. No, they use it for the accoutrements it comes packaged with; the aforementioned Swiss glacier water spritzer and a pro-vitamin B5 detoxifying moisturiser that you add to the sheets as necessary.It’s all very swish – and profoundly Goopy – but here’s where the product falls down. Ideally, to give your bottom the full celebrity treatment, you’d want a wet wipe, then a dry wipe, then a quick moisturise. That’s a three-sheet process, and you only get 25 sheets in a box. And this is a calculation based on normal stool size, by the way. If you’ve just had a big greasy lunch of cheese and fried chicken, forget about it. You could plough through an entire box without a second thought. Imagine Leonardo DiCaprio reaching down to wipe his bottom next week, and realising that he’d already blown his stocks on that celebratory post-Oscars meal of Weetabix, sweetcorn and rancid milk curds. He’d be furious. We’d never hear the end of it.Also, I don’t want to be too specific here, but this stuff is so cushioned that it requires careful negotiation between hand and matter. I’m a ruffian from the wrong side of the tracks, unaccustomed to the fine art of hoity-toity toilet etiquette, so I’m used to ridding myself of muck with the blunt force trauma of two-ply Andrex. If I attempted the same tactic with this as I did with that, it’d be like icing a cake with a trowel. It’d be like trying to spread chutney on fresh-baked bread with a paint roller. It’d be far more trouble than it was worth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In fact, on more than one occasion, I found myself grabbing my cheapo supermarket paper to make sure I’d got everything. All the superficial airs and graces of the A-list had been handed to me on a plate, but I still couldn’t deny my own grubby credentials. This must be exactly how Matthew McConaughey feels. In summary, neither of these products were a total success, but this is still the closest I’ll ever come to feeling like an Oscar-winner. Until I get a Pulitzer for this piece, of course, which seems somewhat inevitable.