Ever get the feeling things can’t get any worse for you or the world? This week we want your recommendations where musicians have captured this doom-mongering mood and put it to song. RR regular who posts in the comments as pussel will select from your nominations and produce the playlist, to be published on 26 January. He says of the sense of political, environmental, economic and cultural despair at the start of 2017 that inspired the choice of theme:  This week we will wallow in this ... we will mine the darkest corners of our souls. The songs can sound like doom, the lyrics can touch on doom, or it could just be the music somehow reminds you of the darkest, worst, lowest part of your life. Explain your reasons and I’ll consider just about anything.Here is a list of all songs previously picked and therefore ineligible for the series.You have until 11pm on Monday 23 January to post your nomination and make your justification. If you want to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions – and potentially blog about the process/selection for the Guardian – please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com with the subject line “RR guru”, or make yourself known in the comments.Here’s a reminder of the guidelines for RR:Tell us why it’s a worthy contender.Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song’s words. If sharing links, make sure there is appropriate copyright permission.Listen to others people’s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.If you have a good theme, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.comThere’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded” (picked for a previous playlist so ineligible), “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Bethesda Softworks