‘It’s not all violins playing and curtains fluttering in the wind – it should be awkward.” Caitriona Balfe is talking about sex. We’re sitting in a hotel room in London discussing the second series of Outlander, which returns this week. The fantasy time-travel drama, which has sparked fan-films and many a meme, is celebrated for its full-blooded sex scenes shown largely from the woman’s point of view.When the conversation turns to the way Outlander subverts the standard tropes of fantasy by having Balfe’s character, Claire, seduce her younger, more innocent lover, Jamie Fraser, the actor doesn’t flinch. Where most might be tempted to shut the conversation down, Balfe just gives a wicked grin.“Usually it’s the guy taking the woman’s virginity and it’s a possession thing,” she says. “But on Outlander she was the more experienced. It’s very sweet and funny and a bit awkward.” She breaks off and laughs. “So yeah, I’m proud of how we’ve approached all that on the show.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Usually it’s the guy taking the woman’s virginity’ … Claire (Caitriona Balfe) with her innocent younger lover Jamie (Sam Heughan) on Outlander. Photograph: StarzShe should be. Jamie and Claire’s wedding night scene, which features frank alchohol-fuelled conversation, Jamie’s first blowjob and a great deal of blush-inducingly hot sex, was probably the high point of the first season, cementing Outlander’s position as a “feminist Game of Thrones”. And it wasn’t an anomaly. One of the most interesting things about Outlander, which is adapted by Ron Moore from Diana Gabaldon’s best-selling novels, is the frank and frequently funny way it examines female desire. In the pilot episode, Claire’s husband, Frank Randall (Tobias Menzies), memorably goes down on her in their hotel room – and later, after she finds herself separated from Frank and trapped in 18th-century Scotland after accidentally travelling through time, the show focuses on her fledgling relationship with young highlander Jamie, whose band of outlaws she falls in with. Claire and Jamie’s relationship is appealing precisely because it is so open about the needs of both characters. The sex is never about titillation, never flung in to spice up the plot.“From the get-go Ron was adamant the sex was not going to be gratuitous, it was going to be integral to the story,” says Balfe. No naked women writhing in the background while men talk in the manner of Game of Thrones’ infamous “sexposition” scenes. Instead, sex drives the plot line because the plot line is about the connections we make. And, crucially, about the morning after.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire (Caitriona Balfe) and Jamie (Sam Heughan) in 18th-century France. Photograph: Starz/Sony Pictures Television“With a male-centric show, the women are usually very two-dimensional,” says Balfe. “Whereas here, not only do you have a female character at the centre, but a balanced view of relationships because they’re equals. They both have a say.”It helps, she says, that she and Sam Heughan, who plays Jamie, are always able to discuss the most intimate scenes with Moore and the writing staff. “For the wedding episode, Sam and I sat in a room with Anna Foerster, who directed the episode, and Anne Kenney, who wrote it, and it was great because you’ve three women and a guy discussing sex and saying: ‘OK, so what does the first time look like and how does that pan out?’”The second season will be “more political”, she says. Claire and Jamie are heading to Paris to try and stop the Jacobite Uprising of 1745, and Claire is now pregnant, having to protect her and Jamie’s future and that of their child as Jamie recovers from the brutal assault that closed the last series. “This season is about how someone tries to get over sexual trauma and how this couple in particular struggles – their connection is based on intimacy, and without that, is the connection lost?” The need to handle this story with care is not lost on any of them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   She’s no ingénue … Caitriona Balfe. Photograph: Mike Coppola/GettyHow does she feel about the show being praised for its feminist take on sexual desire? “First, that’s down to Diana’s source material, but we also have a very balanced writers’ room – two female writers, two male writers and Ron. Most writers’ rooms have very few minorities and very few women.”Not, she admits, that it’s always easy even on a show this progressive. “Sometimes both the writer and director are male and I’m the only woman in the room. Discussing a sex scene becomes very different, less comfortable,” she says. “Episode 10 opens with Claire again receiving oral sex, this time from Jamie – and I told the male writers that if I were the woman it just wouldn’t happen the way it was written. They were like, ‘Really?’ Because of that conversation, the scene was changed.”I’m sure it was. Balfe might laugh freely, and joke around, but she’s very secure in herself. You get the sense that if she says she doesn’t like something, the writers are as well to listen. She’s no ingénue. Balfe came late to acting. While studying theatre at the Dublin Institute of Technology she was talent-spotted as a model and had a successful catwalk career working for everyone from Dolce&Gabbana to Roberto Cavalli. She gave it up after 10 years – she admits her heart was never really in it – and returned to acting. A succession of small roles in films such as Super 8 and Now You See Me led to Outlander. Her career is at that interesting stage where it just might go stratospheric. She recently filmed the Jodie Foster-directed financial thriller Money Monster, which features an Oscar-baiting cast including George Clooney, Dominic West, Julia Roberts and Jack O’Connell. “There I was just hanging out with George,” she laughs. “It was a fun set to be on – most of my scenes were with Dominic West and he was fabulous … and Jodie’s incredibly smart. Her technical ability is amazing.”Outlander: ‘Game Of Thrones helped open the door for us’ Working with Foster convinced her that she would like to produce her own projects. “There’s definitely stories I would like to tell, I’d like to see more films focusing on women’s lives … there’s pride in saying you’re a feminist right now and a real sense of things changing.” However, she adds, it’s a momentum that should not be lost. “Every so often we – women in film and TV – get annoyed and frustrated. We kick up a fuss and make some gains. But then we become complacent and things slide backwards again until the next generation comes up and gets frustrated again.”She’s hopeful that television at least is on the verge of genuine change. “There are so many more avenues now for people to get their content out and that’s so important,” she says. “The people who used to hold the purse strings were a select group of white, middle-aged men, but that’s changing and the more it continues to change, the more we’ll see inclusive stories get told.” Outlander will be available exclusively on Amazon Prime from 10 April, with episodes airing weekly.