David Lean has a lot to answer for. His 1962 film, Lawrence of Arabia, created a myth about TE Lawrence that, more than 50 years on, remains the dominant impression of the man in the public mind. This was largely brought about by casting a lanky, 6ft 2in, devastatingly handsome, blond-haired, blue-eyed Peter O’Toole as the eponymous hero. The real Lawrence (1888-1935) was barely 5ft 5in tall, stocky, fairish, with a pronounced jaw. But the global success and popularity of Lean’s film (it won seven Oscars) has been astonishingly persistent. It propagated other myths, fudged issues and covered up salient facts in pursuit of its movie goals – so what else is new? But it is only when you go in search of the real Lawrence of Arabia that you realise how distorted the general impressions and received wisdom are about the man.I speak with a modicum of authority having spent a good year researching and writing a television mini-series about Lawrence and the Arab revolt of 1916-18. As I researched my screenplay, I realised that almost everything I thought I knew about Lawrence was wrong. More than that, the “truth” about the man, whatever that might be, proved ever more elusive – but also, paradoxically, far more interesting than the Hollywood version. There is no doubt that Lawrence was an extraordinary and courageous man, but in ways we are only now beginning fully to understand.One can’t solely blame Lean for this obfuscation. Lawrence himself was a mythomane and, after the first world war, took particular pains to project an image of himself to the public that was as much a construct as anything worked up by the PR team of a film star or celebrity of today. This was when – with the help of an American film-maker – “Lawrence of Arabia” was born. In Alan Bennett’s play, Forty Years On, there is an amusing comment made about Lawrence’s near-mania for self-publicity. A character remarks about Lawrence: “Clad in the magnificent white silk robes of an Arab prince he hoped to pass unnoticed through London. Alas, he was mistaken.” This is facetious and droll, but like many a good joke it contains a deal of veracity.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A production of Alan Bennett’sForty Years On, which contains a hilarious parody of TE Lawrence, at York Theatre Royal, 2011.Lawrence was a mass of contradictions and, in a way, his whole life, from its outset, was an elaborate attempt to mystify and confuse. His name wasn’t even “Lawrence”. Thomas Edward – “Ned” – and his four brothers were actually the illegitimate offspring of an Irish baronet called Sir Thomas Chapman who had eloped to England with his children’s governess, leaving his wife and daughters behind in Ireland. He had taken on a new identity of “Mr Lawrence”, and lived a covert double life in Oxford with his mistress and their eventual children. Lawrence’s mother, Sarah, a dominating character, was complicit in maintaining the elaborate deception. She was also a firm believer in corporal punishment and beat her second son, Ned – the contrary one – regularly and robustly. These beatings had a profound psychological effect on Lawrence’s character. As far as can be determined it would seem that Lawrence was asexual – or a repressed homosexual – with a tendency towards masochism. Guilt was the emotion that underpinned the rest of his life – guilt arising from his greatest act of duplicity It is a matter of some debate exactly when Lawrence discovered that he was in fact TE Chapman, but there is no doubt that the permanent atmosphere of pretence, caution and suspicion that was engendered in the family by this scandalous subterfuge – and remember this was the end of the 19th century – contributed to Lawrence’s highly complex persona.His childhood, perhaps not surprisingly, was very confused. He ran away from home, enlisted in the army aged 17 and had to be rescued. The only way he could be constrained was by living apart. A small cottage was built for him at the bottom of the garden of the family house in North Oxford, and young Ned essentially lived separately from his parents and siblings, almost as a kind of lodger, joining them for meals.He went to grammar school in Oxford and then on to Jesus College at the university, becoming a scholar and expert archaeologist, a fascination that prompted his first visits to the Middle East. If war hadn’t intervened in 1914 Lawrence might have been remembered as a talented academic and expert on Crusader architecture. But he was recruited by the Arab Bureau, based in Cairo, as an intelligence officer – he spoke fluent, though accented, Arabic – and became a kind of spy. More subterfuge.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   TE Lawrence Photograph: ullstein bild via Getty ImagesLawrence’s war, from 1916 onwards, is well known – but largely through his own telling. Seven Pillars of Wisdom, his remarkable account of his participation in the Arab revolt – the 1916 uprising of the Arab tribes of the Saudi peninsula against the Turkish invaders – has to be taken almost on its own terms. There are virtually no witnesses; there is minimal corroboration. The stories Lawrence recounts of his relationship with Emir Feisal, of battlefield executions, guerrilla operations against the Turks, massacres, epic journeying across deserts, heroic accounts of personal suffering, of his gang rape at the hands of Turkish soldiers, even the legendary attack on Aqaba all have to be taken at face value. Only Lawrence knew what really happened.Recent scholarship – especially the superb biography Lawrence: the Uncrowned King of Arabia by Michael Asher – has called a lot into question. Even the most notorious and shocking of these incidents, Lawrence’s beating and rape during his brief capture by the Turks at Daraa in 1917 – his account of how the “citadel of my integrity”, as he described it, had been lost. It now seems that it could have been invented, for whatever perverse, personal reasons. In any event it was an extraordinary confession to make for its time (1922) and, who knows, whatever the truth of the matter, why Lawrence felt he had to write at such length and in such precise detail about this abject personal humiliation. It was perhaps a strange form of public masochism and expiation of his profound sense of guilt.Because there is no doubt that guilt was the emotion that underpinned the rest of his relatively short life – guilt arising from his greatest act of duplicity. The Arab tribes trusted Lawrence and, although they were mercenary soldiers, they fought for the British because they believed that victory over the Turks, and the collapse of the Ottoman empire, would bring them a form of greater Arabia; a new Arab state with its capital at Damascus. The British allowed this profound belief to be maintained, and Lawrence was the key agent in its propagation and in reassuring the Arabs. But he was always fully aware he was lying to Feisal and the other Arab leaders. The Middle East had already been carved up earlier in the war – as a result of the Sykes-Picot pact – by the British and the French. The last thing either of these empires wanted was a new Arab state bestriding the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean. And as soon as the war was over, the ruthless Franco-British realpolitik was made brutally apparent to Feisal. The Arabs may have forgiven Lawrence, but he never forgave himself.Strategist of the Desert Dies in Military Hospital He tried to set matters right at the Paris peace conference in 1919, but in vain – though Lawrence’s vision of a new Middle East, had it ever been realised, might have transformed 20th-and 21st-century history in the region. But that is all hypothesis. Lawrence’s life after the war was, to put it very simply, a persistent flight from himself and the persona he had created – this “Lawrence of Arabia” that he saw as the worst sort of sham, his personal Frankenstein’s monster. He tried to hide from the world, adopting pseudonyms and joining first the RAF – as “John Ross” – and then the army as “TE Shaw” – a common soldier. It was doomed to failure. Lawrence of Arabia was too potent and enduring an invention, and the man himself was lionised by the great and the good. As ever, Lawrence was an expert at manipulating the limelight, whether backing out of it or seeking its full glare. He found a form of happiness, outside his army experiences, living as a near recluse in a cottage in Dorset, writing his memoirs and privately indulging in more guilt-ridden masochism. He died in 1935 as a result of a motorbike accident. Lawrence of Arabia, finally at peace. But the myth, unlike the man, refused to die.• Lawrence After Arabia by Howard Brenton is at Hampstead theatre, London NW3, until 5 June.