Snapshot: My father, heading for a new life in EnglandI love this photograph: it is full of excitement and anticipation – it shows my father, Rasiklal Devi, at the front of a passenger ship from Bombay (as Mumbai was called then) to London in 1958 and marks the start of a whole new chapter in his life.He wanted to see the world and longed to see what England could offer him. He grew up in a small village in northern Gujarat, one of seven children, and didn’t attend school until he was 10. But he excelled and was offered a place at medical school in Mumbai after which he worked as a GP. He was sponsored to attend the Royal College of Surgeons in the UK where he met his future wife and where he settled for 40 years. He became a surgeon and in his later years worked as a GP again.His face is gentle, relaxed and pensive and he looks quite self-assured despite the journey he is undertaking, unaware of how different life in England would be compared with the warm, nurturing life he left behind in India. He entered the UK not knowing a soul apart from the people he travelled with, who remained his lifelong friends. I cannot imagine embarking on a trip like this, before television and regular telephone communication, to a country several weeks away by boat, to settle in a land occupied by people who had once ruled my own country. This was travelling in its truest sense. At a time when air fares were unaffordable it was not an option to change your mind and go home.He wanted to explore a life less ordinary and worked in areas of the UK where there were few or no Asians and long before the days of a vegetarian option on the menu. Despite his desire to travel and study, he found it impossible to let go of his culture and always struggled with communicating in a way that did not offend and which was frequently misunderstood. His gentle, relaxed face soon became tense and frustrated through the stress of having to conform. He had a love/hate relationship with his new home. He enjoyed the more regulated infrastructure and a country free of bureaucracy and restrictive policies. But he missed the love of his family and the weather.In 1970, he married my mother – of Dutch origin – at a time when mixed marriages were very much outside the norm. He took her to his home town in India to introduce her to the family and was so worried that the living conditions might be too difficult for her that he placed her in a hotel for some of the stay. My mother travelled to villages where they had never seen a white face and was treated like a celebrity. It was a time of steam trains, elephants and car-free roads; everything was very picturesque – a very different India to the over-polluted country that it is now. The village house had no running water and the whole experience for a young woman who had grown up in a provincial town in Holland and had only seen Europe and parts of Australia must have been very humbling, overwhelming, exciting and scary for her.The relationship between my mother and father was fraught with cultural misunderstandings, but it was honest. There was an underlying admiration for their cultural differences. My father could see the benefit of certain aspects of European ideology and my mother appreciated the warmth of Indian family life, the communal sleeping arrangements, delicious food and the more sensitive, softer approach to parenting where children were very much taken everywhere and enjoyed, and not kept as a separate entity.As I grew older, the relationship between my parents grew more distant and my father withdrew further into his culture and he became more and more frustrated and homesick. During my late teens and early 20s I was too self-absorbed to see this and they divorced in 2003 when I was 30.After his death in India, I found a photograph of my mother taken when she was 30 that he spoke to each night before he slept. I have reflected on his life and can clearly see the reason why he was sometimes so upset and frustrated. It makes me sad and happy to look at this photograph – happy that he is excited and his dreams are coming true, but sad that after living in the UK he lost this relaxed, smiling face and I, his daughter, have never seen it. I almost thought he was rather like a polar bear who had been placed in the desert.Sonya Devi-ClarkePlaylist: The sound of a Maori song, sung in BelfastPokarekare Ana (writer unknown)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pokarekare Ana is a New Zealand folk song that has its origins in the early years of the first world war. It is a Maori love song, as I understand it, in the traditional sense of yearning, of sadness and, possibly, based on the thoughts of a soldier waiting to be reunited with his girlfriend. It is a sweet, lilting song, much loved in New Zealand and beyond, including more than 11,000 miles away in Belfast, Northern Ireland.In the early 1960s, when I was in primary school, we had the usual mixed agenda of lessons including music; one day Mr Sadler taught us to sing Pokarekare Ana in Maori. Now, for five- and six-year-olds trying to get the hang of English, this was a challenge of the highest order. But the teacher persevered. He sang a line and we repeated it. He sang it again and we repeated it again, and on we crooned without a hint of a clue as to what we were singing about.It was only much later in life that I found versions of translated lyrics, but what I will never forget is the sound of a class of mostly tuneless kids for a few moments in decent harmony and the tune has stuck with me for well over 50 years. A few weeks ago, I discovered Hayley Westenra singing it and I was reminded of how a song can be simple but powerful. She was on a concert stage, but I could see and hear Mr Sadler strumming his guitar in our classroom, encouraging us to enjoy a strange but haunting choice of song.Joe CushnanWe love to eat: Joyce’s apple roll      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joyce’s apple rollIngredients (serves six)Pastry:200g self-raising flour50g Trex or vegetable fat50g butterWater to bindFilling:3 large cooking applesSyrup:1 cup (240ml) waterLump of butter1 cup (175g) soft brown sugarPreheat the oven to 170C. Rub fat into the flour and mix in water to form a soft pastry. Peel and thinly slice the apples. Place the syrup ingredients in a pan; melt, then simmer for one minute. Roll pastry to a rectangle 12in x 8in approx. Place in a baking dish. Fill with the apples then roll up and seal ends. Pour over the syrup. Bake for one hour.My mum, Anne Cunningham, was born in 1915 in Dundee, Scotland, the youngest of 11 children. She was 15 when her eldest brother, Alec, left Scotland to seek a new life in Australia. Uncle Alec joined the New South Wales police force, met and married Joyce, a local girl. Auntie Joyce was a wonderful cook.When my mum was 21, Alec paid for her to travel to Australia to see him. She spent six weeks in the ship The Oriana, sailing from Southampton via Suez, Naples and Colombo. Mum kept a diary in Australia and in the back she wrote down Joyce’s recipes. Joyce and Alec visited Scotland in the 60s and while staying with us Auntie Joyce cooked us a Sunday lunch. The highlight was her apple roll – delicious!Fiona HesseyWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We Love to Eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number.