The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Roni Size & DJ Krust: Formulate   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’ll be the first date of the Full Cycle reunion tour so it will have to be the brand-new remix of this, the first track that Krust and I will be releasing on Full Cycle Records. After laying dormant for over eight years, we feel it’s time to bring back the Cycle with new vigour.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Roni Size/Reprazent: Dirty Beats   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is a tune that I always reach for; it has a vocal by the Dynamite MC and a violin hook that is damn catchy. I would then mix this into the Sigma bootleg of Damian Marley’s Jamrock – the two tunes always go off.The track that currently gets the most rewinds M-Beat ft General Levy: Incredible   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This original jungle anthem is a fool-proof chicken dinner [winner]; and since it’s recently been on a car ad on mainstream TV, it’s proof that things come full circle, 20-plus years later.The track that should have been a crossover hit Gat Decor: Passion   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Some tracks are world beaters before their time and people are just not ready yet. Words like crossover and hits… well, I don’t often use them. For me it has to be a hit on the dancefloor first and then it takes on a life of its own. Big up 1992 for this one, though.The track I wish I’d never playedMichael Jackson: Thriller   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I guess it would have been playing a graveyard shift in Russia. If I remember correctly, I was on after Aphrodite and the whole evening was full of hard DnB and dubstep, so after six hours of that something in my head told me to play Thriller by Michael Jackson. Let me tell you, it was a big mistake, but eventually I managed to win back the crowd with some Full Cycle rollers.The track I’d play at my auntie’s weddingBob Marley: I Shot The Sheriff (Roni Size Remix)    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Coming from a Jamaican background it would have to be something reggae. Recently it was my daughter’s 11th birthday and she organised a disco for all of her friends, and guess who had to DJ… yours truly. The big hit of the night was definitely Silentó’s Watch Me Whip. The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Pete Josef: The Travelling Song   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s from the album Colour, and he performed it at Koko for the Worldwide awards a few weeks ago. Its such a feelgood piece of music.The ideal festival track The White Stripes: Seven Nation Army   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The bass on this from the White Stripes always goes down a treat. I played on the Hell stage at Shangri-La at Glastonbury and this made it one of my most memorable sets ever.The best track by my favourite new artist Culture Shock: Back To YouAn unreleased record, it has simplicity all over it, and an electronic feel with underlining soul elements. RAM Records have some amazing artists; the owner of the label, Andy C, knows what he’s doing.The track I’d play at my funeral Michael Jackson: Off The Wall   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The lyrics on this have been ingrained into me and I can honestly say I still live by these words today as I never had a nine-to-five and definitely enjoy myself by living life.Roni Size & DJ Krust Present Full Cycle With Dynamite MC at The Rainbow Venues, Birmingham, Saturday; The Engine Rooms, Southampton, Friday