You have to feel for the arts minister, Mitch Fifield. It’s never easy turning up to a political debate where most of the audience is against you. That’s what Fifield had to endure at Wednesday’s national arts election debate, held at Melbourne’s Wheeler Centre. As they say in show business, it was a tough crowd.The debate was organised by ArtsPeak, a confederation of cultural sector peak bodies. The idea was to get the spokespersons for Labor, the Greens and the Coalition to outline their plans and policies for culture over the next three years. Fifield joined the Greens’ Adam Bandt and Labor’s Mark Dreyfus for the discussion.Given the events of this term of government, it’s hardly surprising the mood of the room was hostile to Fifield. Many of the artists and organisations that attended have endured funding cuts under the Coalition. Hundreds of millions of dollars of cuts have resulted in significant job losses. To say that many in the sector are unhappy with the government is something of an understatement.Do we have to rebrand the arts as 'creative tech' for Turnbull to give us money? Nor is it news that Fifield’s opponents in the Australian Labor party and the Greens have been highly critical. After all, they’re just listening to what artists and cultural workers have been saying, for instance, in the 2,700 submissions to last year’s Senate inquiry into arts funding.Both Labor and the Greens have announced significant cultural policies for the 2016 election. The Greens have promised $270m towards the arts and culture. Labor has committed $161m. The Coalition has promised nothing. The Coalition looks as though it won’t bother to announce a cultural policy at all.So you can understand the difficulty Fifield faced in Wednesday’s arts debate. There he was, debating arts and culture, but without a policy for arts and culture. There he was, the representative of the government that has cut $300m from the portfolio. There he was, in an election debate, without a single thing to promise to potential voters. Not a dollar. Not even a cent.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mitch Fifield, Adam Bandt, Mark Dreyfus and moderator Patricia Karvelas at the national arts election debate at the Wheeler Centre in Melbourne on Wednesday night. Photograph: Esther AnatolitisAll things considered, Fifield’s performance was miraculous. Despite the jeers and even occasional boos directed at him, Fifield kept smiling. He maintained a friendly and emollient presence throughout.The government's cultural barbarism and plunder of the arts, continued When asked about the Coalition’s vision for the arts, he maintained there was one. When asked about the funding cuts to the Australia Council, he said the government still supported the Australia Council. When asked about job losses in the cultural industries, he said that the Turnbull government’s tax cuts to business would grow the economy and this would eventually flow through to artists. The problem with spinning for 100 minutes is that eventually you run out of platitudes. This happened when Fifield tried to get across the message that he was “wary of government dictating from on high the direction arts should go”. This drew loud laughter from the audience: Fifield presides over a ministerial arts fund that does just that.  The problem with spinning for 100 minutes is that eventually you run out of platitudesBen Eltham Spruiking the government’s talking points also got Fifield into trouble. “We need to make sure we have an economy that is strong and growing,” the minister argued at one point. “Because an economy that is strong and growing means individuals and corporate philanthropists are in a position to purchase artworks and support individual artists. A stronger economy is better for artists.”Unfortunately, the statistics say otherwise: employment in the Australian Bureau of Statistics’ “arts and recreation services” category has fallen by 16,000 in the past year. Dreyfus ridiculed Fifield’s stance as “trickle-down for the arts”.The irony of Fifield’s torment was that the debate itself was largely the fault of the Coalition. The arts sector has got itself organised in 2016 in response to decisions by this government, particularly the May 2015 decision by Fifield’s predecessor George Brandis to take $105m from the Australia Council and use it to set up the National Program for Excellence in the Arts. The “Excellence” funding raid, and the high-handed manner in which Brandis announced it, set off national protests against the Coalition’s cultural policy. A campaign under the banner of Free the Arts was launched. There were dance-offs and anti-Brandis Facebook spoofs.Arts funding: Labor vows to scrap 'ministerial slush fund' As a result, for the first time in 20 years, cultural policy has become an election issue. Labor and the Greens have seized on this discontent to run hard on culture as part of their election platforms. Bill Shorten held an enthusiastic policy launch on Saturday. Bandt upped the ante on Wednesday, announcing a further $74m on top of the $270m in promises from the party already on the table. Dreyfus has also hinted that the ALP would announce further policies in the screen sector in coming days. The end of the debate was instructive. Fifield made a rapid getaway to a waiting ComCar, while Dreyfus stuck around and mingled, talking to artists and cultural industry figures. Rumour has it the hapless arts minister wanted to bring at least one “announceable” to the debate on Wednesday, but was blocked by Liberal campaign headquarters. Anyone looking for a commitment to Australian culture from the Coalition – or even just a formal statement of intent – would not have been encouraged on Wednesday.