Cautiously warning that they may not be to everyone’s taste, the University of Glasgow has recorded a collection of songs by Robert Burns as they would originally have been performed.According to the university, the Scottish poet’s songs, written in the late 18th and early 19th century, were “tailored for the parlours of the middle classes”, and would have been performed in that setting on Baroque harpsichords, cellos and violas, rather than their more usual airing today; in a pub, accompanied by a violin or guitar.Setting out to record the pieces as originally intended by the poet, the university’s Centre for Robert Burns Studies gave a group of 11 musicians and singers copies of the original publications, dating between 1787 and the 1930s, and asked them to perform what they could read.“We are opening up a bit of a controversial area and not everyone will like these settings, but we have not recorded them so people will like them, we have recorded them because that is what they are,” said Professor Kirsteen McCue. “People don’t really know what Burns’s songs sounded like, because the songs have been taken out of context and have become what they are today which is a bit of everything. So it’s all about the context of the time.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Robert Burns song performed as it originally soundedMcCue, who led the research, said the team wanted to use replicas of instruments from the period. “So it does sound very different and that is something which can be unattractive for the vast majority of Burns lovers who just want the melody. They just want a singer with a fiddle and the songs work beautifully that way … but that’s not how they originally appeared,” she said.Would Rabbie Burns thrive in Nationalist Scotland? | Kevin McKenna The recordings come at the close of a five-year project for the Centre for Robert Burns Studies, funded by an Arts and Humanities Research Council grant, to release a multi-volume edition of Burns’s work “We’ve always intended with the songs of this edition to foreground performance as well as print,” said Carruthers, the Centre’s director. “The new recordings are intended to be enjoyed and also to make people think about Burns’s music in its own day as well as its legacy. Burns was always open at the same time to tradition and innovation.”