There are many things to be said about Donald Trump, who is sworn in as US president on Friday. But none of them have much to do with books.In fact, one suspects, he has no appetite for books – apart from his own biography, The Art of the Deal, which he frequently plugs as his favourite reading, alongside the Bible.It is one of many ways in which he contrasts with his predecessor Barack Obama, who this week gave an interview to the New York Times in which he revealed the debt he owes to reading. Not only had it helped him “slow down and get perspective”, he said, it also helped him “get inside somebody else’s shoes”.'People hope my book will be China's Star Wars': Liu Cixin on China's exploding sci-fi scene Obama cites literary influences that range from Shakespeare to Nelson Mandela through to Chinese author Liu Cixin’s post-apocalyptic The Three-Body Problem. “My day-to-day problems with Congress seem fairly petty,” he said, in comparison with invasion by aliens. Perspective is everything.How some of us will miss that man. Because, on the evidence available, the incoming resident of the White House looks to be the least well-read president of modern times.In fact, it is not even certain that Trump has read The Art of the Deal. Certainly, his ghostwriter Tony Schwartz had doubts. Last year he told the New Yorker: “I seriously doubt that Trump has ever read a book straight through in his adult life.”I suspect Schwartz may be on to something. Only once before has Trump named an alternative to the Bible or his own memoir: the 1929 classic All Quiet on the Western Front, which he picked as a favourite while speaking to Fox News presenter Megyn Kelly last May.But even then, he managed to spoil the effect, when asked what was the most recent book he had read, by adding: “I read passages, I read areas, I’ll read chapters – I don’t have the time.”Even George W Bush, who for a long time assured us that Eric Carle’s The Very Hungry Caterpillar was his favourite book, turned out to be a closet reader of rapacious appetite. His Hicksville cover was blown when one of his closest advisers, Karl Rove, revealed in the Wall Street Journal that the two were locked in a reading duel that meant the ex-president devoured on average two books a week, ranging from the predictable political biographies to unlikely ventures into classic fiction, such as Albert Camus’ archetypal novel of alienation The Outsider. I presume he read that after the Iraq war.Elsewhere around the globe, political leaders have shared their taste for literature, making Trump’s bookshelves look all the more bare. If he wants to heat up the bromance with Vladimir Putin, the new leader of the free world could do no better than to dip into the many books that have inspired the Russian leader.Perhaps it would be too big an ask to start with Christian existentialist Nikolai Berdyaev’s The Philosophy of Inequality – which Trump’s Kremlin counterpart distributed to regional governors as required reading. Ivan Turgenev’s A Sportsman’s Sketches might be better; this collection of stories, revealing the suffering of the peasantry in the Russian countryside, would make an imaginative escape should Trump develop an interest in life beyond the gilded rooms of Trump Tower.I fear Angela Merkel’s favourite title, Goethe’s Faust, would make him a tad uneasy – though it might provide some insight into how he and the German chancellor could start over when they meet later this year. Speaking to the Wall Street Journal, Merkel said Faust “gives you an idea of why we Germans want to get to the bottom of things”.I don’t want to alarm the president-elect but the German leader shares her choice with Chinese leader Xi Jinping, according to The China Daily. Could this hint at a new alliance?Maybe it’s time for the incoming president to seek literary solace in the special relationship and look to the UK leaders’s recommended reading lists.There is plenty there for the commander-in-chief to while away his hours on Air Force One, though somehow I don’t see Jeremy Corbyn’s pick of James Joyce’s Ulysses (read three times) doing it for the Donald.Jonathan Coe: will satire save us in the age of Trump? Perhaps this is UK prime minister Theresa May’s opportunity to get up close and personal with her US counterpart. Her preference is for detective novels. Perfect: nothing too heavy and a bit of page-turning escape when deciding whether to use the nuclear codes or not.That said, if I were May, I’d keep stumm about her favourite read: Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice. Somehow I can’t see a novel about a feisty heroine unimpressed by a rich man who thinks he’s God’s gift being a big turn on for the new president.A recommended reading list for TrumpThird Empire: The Russia That Should by Mikhail Yuriev. A favourite novel of Trump’s new BFF, Vladimir Putin. It’s easy to see why as there are close parallels between the Russian leader and the hero this 2006 sci-fi novel – the shadowy but heroic leader “Vladimir the Restorer”, who, aided by the Ukrainian people, makes Russia a great Empire again.One Billion Customers by James McGregor. The man who built up the Dow Jones’s operation in China can offer the former star of The Apprentice useful tips on how to deal with the world’s biggest markets. No dry textbook, McGregor’s book provides insights into China that are witty, informed and might just prevent the new leader sparking a catastrophic trade war. When the Facts Change by Tony Judt. Historian Judt knew what it was to change his mind – particularly to move from the extremes of Marxist Zionism in his youth to a commitment to social democracy. Not only will Judt’s essays help the new president to better understand Israel and Palestine, they may help him realise that it is possible to change your mind gracefully.Language, Truth and Logic by AJ Ayer. With all those speeches he will have to make, this 1936 classic on thought and communication is a must-read for the Donald. Offering advice on fuzzy logic and muddled speaking, it is a useful primer for the “fake news” age. It even has tests, with which the president-elect can evaluate his tweets for statements of unverifiable “fact”.No Means No! by Jayneen Sanders. It may be too late for the pussygrabber-in-chief, but this picture book for three-to-nine-year-olds might help him begin to appreciate personal boundaries. The publisher’s blurb for Sanders’s book should bring comfort to all: “A world where ‘No!’ does actually mean ‘No!’ can be a world with far less violence and increased respect for humankind.”