Take two major male stars, surround them with wild and colorful bros, throw in some obstacles and plenty of crazy high jinks and, voilà, you have a Judd Apatow movie. However, the latest Apatow effort, co-directed with Michael Bonfiglio, takes all those ingredients and subverts every expectation: Doc & Darryl is an ESPN 30 for 30 documentary debuting on Thursday. It is a sobering look at the parallel paths toward self-destruction and the different roads toward salvation taken by two of baseball’s biggest names of the 1980s, New York Mets team-mates Dwight Gooden and Darryl Strawberry. In 1983, Strawberry won the National League rookie of the year award with a beautiful home-run swing; Gooden captured the same prize in 1984 and a Cy Young award the next year with a blazing fastball and mind-bending curve. The woeful Mets were suddenly transformed into contenders and in 1986 they were the kings of New York and the sports world with their epic 108-win season and memorable World Series victory.  “We were young and had raw talent and loved playing baseball,” Strawberry says, looking back fondly at the peaks of those years. “We took an organization that was at the bottom and we became two of the biggest young stars. We stood tall in New York. No one can ever take away what we accomplished regardless of our downfall.” The film does not soft-pedal the worst of the downfall and Strawberry says he loves it for its unflinching gaze. “I love the way it was produced. I wanted it to be honest and clear about how good we were and how our lives were derailed,” he says. Indeed, the dynasty that seemed inevitable never transpired, in large part because Gooden and Strawberry soon began losing the bigger game, the one against their inner demons. Both struggled with drug and alcohol addiction, cycling in and out of rehab programs and Major League Baseball suspensions that doomed what had seemed like hall-of-fame careers. Worse, their woes continued well after those careers ended, with both men landing in prison at different points and seemingly headed for tragic endings.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The two former team-mates discuss their past at the diner used in Goodfellas. Photograph: ESPN When ESPN started its 30 for 30 series in 2009, a film about those ’86 Mets was high on the list. “We thought about that forever, but we wanted to figure out how to tell the story in the right way,” says Connor Schell, executive producer for ESPN Films. “Judd was the galvanizing force.” Before becoming a comedy legend, Apatow, 48, was a Queens-born, Long Island-raised baseball fan who lived and breathed those 1980s Mets. “I got to interview Mookie Wilson when I was in the seventh grade,” he said at a recent screening of the documentary before confessing: “I can’t say it was a very strong interview.”  So for his first foray into documentaries, Apatow told ESPN he’d love to explore the human dimensions behind the Gooden and Strawberry saga. “I was interested in what their real story is and I liked the idea of the two of them sitting down together to talk,” he says. “I wanted to show them as three-dimensional human beings fighting a disease. The movie is about what they’ve gone through and how they are doing now and about their relationship with each other.” The movie also explodes some common misconceptions about the story. “This documentary establishes the context – it asks where are the beginnings,” Schell says. “They are not as obvious as people think in the shorthand version in their head because we speak so much in headlines.” That was certainly true for Bonfiglio. (Apatow and Bonfiglio are now making a documentary about alt-country band the Avett Brothers.) The co-director was not a sports fan so he remembers Gooden and Strawberry “as a cultural punchline” during their struggles. “The negatives stuck more so I remember David Letterman constantly joking about them.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gooden, right, and Strawberry posing at Citi Field in New York. Photograph: Seth Wenig/AP Like most of us, Bonfiglio also bought the conventional wisdom that the two young stars “were corrupted by New York in the crazy 1980s because they were kids who had been thrown a bunch of money with no guidance.” The interviews with Gooden and Strawberry revealed a darker truth. (Bonfiglio did all the interviews, Apatow says, because he was better at it. “I just don’t think I’d be able to do it, to say: ‘What about the time you beat your wife?’”) Bonfiglio says New York “exacerbated the situation by putting them under a magnifying glass and with a lifestyle where you can still go out after a night game” but explains that “if they had played in someplace like Cincinnati I absolutely think they would have fallen into addiction. An important point of the film is that their addictions have their roots in childhood as is so often the case. I think they would have had addiction problems even if they didn’t play baseball.”  Apatow and Bonfiglio make that point early on. “You see what their childhoods were really like with the addictions and abuse in their households,” Apatow says.  Strawberry agrees. “Most people don’t realize the issues were already there, the scars were inside of me before I hit the field. I was already broken,” he tells the Guardian. “I never had a childhood.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suspended New York Yankees outfielder Darryl Strawberry’s hands and feet are handcuffed after failing a drug test while on probation in 2000. Photograph: Chris O'Meara/Associated Press In the film, Strawberry tells a heartrending tale of his alcoholic father whipping him with an extension cord, stinging him as well with the unspoken message: “You’ll never amount to nothing. You’ll never be nothing.” (Alcoholism is a major part of Gooden’s family story, too.) He also discusses the intense racial abuse heaped on him in the south when he first started playing in the minors. “I came close to quitting baseball,” he says.  Each man agreed to answer questions on camera about every topic: in one-on-one interviews, Strawberry speaks ruefully about assaulting his wife while Gooden gives his side of an alleged rape case involving himself and two other Mets with one woman from 1992. (The film-makers intercut that with the Florida state attorney’s side that will make sports fans feel retroactively guilty for being so willing to believe in their “heroes”, or at least to look the other way.)  There are film clips of spectacular accomplishments and repeated troubles (as well as one of those Letterman jokes Bonfiglio remembered) and interviews with journalists, addiction counselors, former Met manager Davey Johnson and first baseman Keith Hernandez, who was a team leader and who had earlier battled his own drug problems. Apatow’s connections landed Jon Stewart as the wistful voice of the typical Met fan. “I was blown away by his encyclopedic knowledge of the Mets organization in addition to his intelligence and insight,” Bonfiglio says. All of this is framed by a meeting between Gooden and Strawberry at a Queens diner – and not just any diner. “I said to a producer that I wanted the vibe of the diner scene in Goodfellas,” Bonfiglio says, referring to an uneasy conversation between Robert De Niro’s and Ray Liotta’s characters. “She told me we could film at the actual diner. So we did.”  Bonfiglio wasn’t trying to recreate Goodfellas – he just liked the visuals of that scene – but there’s a connection as two men are forced to confront their long history as they dance around the truth. For the first hour, Strawberry and Gooden mostly just joked and reminisced, Bonfiglio says, until he stopped the cameras and pulled each aside, telling them to dig deeper. “They were uncomfortable at first talking about their feelings,” he says, but they responded to his metaphorical visit to the mound.  Throughout the film Strawberry seems comfortable with who he is and forthright about what he has done in the past; these days he devotes much of his time to two drug and alcohol rehab centers in Florida that bear his name and to preaching at churches. “Darryl has made his entire focus running his rehab centers, preaching about what it takes to win the battle. This is how he helps himself stay sober,” Apatow says. Strawberry says he no longer follows baseball but not because of bitterness or regret. “It is the past, a memory,” he tells me. “I know I brought joy to the fans and I love how the passion is so deep but I am doing more good now than I did as a ballplayer. Now I am helping people.” By contrast, Gooden’s jittery hold on sobriety seems precarious at best. He notes that for him it’s not always day to day, “sometimes it’s a minute-to-minute thing”. The film even notes that soon after his interviews he missed a public appearance, a flashback to when he missed the 1986 tickertape parade after a night of drug abuse.  “Doc is dealing with his addictions in a different way from Darryl,” Apatow says. “We sensed he’s a bit shaky but only he knows what has been going on.” “The question of Doc is complex and the answer about his sobriety right now is I don’t know,” Bonfiglio says.  Apatow admits he expected a happier ending. “I thought it would be much more uplifting, seeing two people looking back at how they climbed out of all that,” he says. But worrisome headlines for Gooden from 2010, 2013 and again last year made it all feel “very fresh and present”. Bonfiglio says that just telling one of those stories might have been insufficient. “They are different people. They traveled parallel roads with different outcomes. For a film about addiction that makes it more complex and more truthful.”“Doc has taken a different road but my prayer is his life will be abundant like mine,” says Strawberry, who took time out last week to be with Gooden after Gooden’s mother died. “Sitting down with him for this film brought us closer than ever.”