As far as dangerous missions undertaken to achieve near impossible goals are concerned, Kaz Brekker is certainly no novice. However, when he is approached by one of the most influential merchants in the bustling city of Ketterdam, Kaz is tasked with a heist so challenging that even he doubts his ability to accomplish it.Yet his own greed and ambition as well as the promise of money beyond his wildest dreams soon win him over. As Kaz assembles his crew of thieves and criminals, they are all fully aware that this mission may be their last.I’m not sure if my review will be able to do Six of Crows justice; quite simply this book was a joy to read. Leigh Bardugo’s fascinating prose and stunning characterisation have, without a doubt placed, Six of Crows right up there as one of the best books I have ever read. Since every chapter is narrated from one of the different perspectives of our six protagonists, the reader is fully immersed in the thoughts and feelings of the main characters. With every turn of the page, I found myself welcoming the characters into my heart more and more. By the end of the novel, I really felt that I had gained quite an understanding of them all, as well as knowledge of their individual thought processes.The plot was bursting with action and overflowing with suspense right from the beginning. From the very first words I was hooked on the story and even now it still lingers in my thoughts. Structured true to the format of a typical heist, you read on thinking you know everything. Only to find out that the group leader, Kaz, has a brand new trick up his sleeve. Fast paced and beautifully descriptive, I’m finding it impossible to think of anything I didn’t like about Six of Crows.The world building is phenomenal and the Grisha world is by far my favourite out of all the fantasy stories I have read. The attention to detail is amazing; I love how each country has its own language and traditions. The transitions between chapters and points of view were immaculate and really provided a sense of urgency and impact to the most significant scenes. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? I adored reading this book and I’m still very much in love with it! I would definitely recommend it to anyone who likes the idea of an intriguing fantasy world, a dazzling heist and protagonists that are resplendent in their individuality and characterisation.Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop Want to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!