Hail, Caesar! review – George Clooney bigger, broader, zanier in classic Coen caper “I’ve always played punks,” says Josh Brolin. “Bad guys. This guy I don’t see as bad at all.” Brolin is talking about Eddie Mannix, the 1950s Hollywood studio boss he plays in Hail, Caesar! The character is based – at several removes – on a real-life figure, a fixer and executive who was possibly more than tangentially involved in one of the era’s more notorious episodes, the shooting dead of Superman actor George Reeves in 1959.Describing the actual Mannix as “not a great human being”, Brolin is much more enthusiastic about the fictional one: “He’s an amalgamation of Thalberg and Louis B Mayer and a lot of different people. And he’s also a metaphor for Jesus and all that stuff. That’s how pure he is. He’s foundational. I call it the Tom Hanks part. He’s the through line.”Brolin talks through what he calls the “construction” of the Mannix character. “I started putting a voice on tape, and walking a certain way. So [then] it’s a question of how fast do we want to talk: how much do we want to do the cadence of the 50s? If I do it too much, it becomes impersonal. It’s a total smoker voice, and getting my voice down there was pretty difficult as I had just given up smoking. I had to do voice exercises – and I am not a voice-exercise guy, I used to make fun of people who did them when I did theatre – but I had to do it. It was such a strain on my voice box.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brolin with Scarlett Johansson in Hail, Caesar! Photograph: Allstar/Working TitleBrolin says it’s all in the preparation: “I know every word of the entire script before the first day, so I have some kind of cellular connection to it, instead of saying, ‘Oh, what’s the next scene, because I’ve been having champagne in my trailer?’” You get the impression, despite his to-the-point style, that Brolin is profoundly grateful for the late-breaking chance his acting career has given him. “I’m an anomaly, I know that. I was living in professional obscurity for a very long time – it wasn’t a bad thing, I was very happy, making a living – but I am now the guy who it changed for later on in life. Kind of like Melissa Leo. I had been doing work, I didn’t change anything, I just did a movie people saw. That’s the difference. The point is: working with Joel and Ethan, you get to watch movies you’re proud of being in.”George Clooney interview: ‘Donald Trump is a xenophobic fascist’ The film Brolin is referring to, of course, is No Country for Old Men, the 2007 Cormac McCarthy adaptation that was directed by the Coens, that not only “people saw” but was propelled all the way to the best picture Oscar. “I never understand why people offer me roles, whether it’s Oliver Stone or Gus Van Sant. I’m not the typical, handsome guy. I’m stout and big boned and they were like, this is the guy we’ve been waiting for. Who was I? It didn’t matter to them what sort of value or financing I brought in, just that I was right for the role. It was cool.”