It’s officially summer, which means that we can now look forward to long summer days where we can spend our weekends lazing in hammocks catching up with our favourite books (that’s the theory anyway... is anybody listening up there?)  Summer was our best season: it was sleeping on the back screened porch in cots, or trying to sleep in the treehouse; summer was everything good to eat; it was a thousand colours in a parched landscape; but most of all, summer was Dill. ― Harper Lee, To Kill a Mockingbird  ‘I do love the beginning of the summer hols,’ said Julian. They always seem to stretch out ahead for ages and ages.’‘They go so nice and slowly at first,’ said Anne, his little sister. ‘Then they start to gallop.’― Enid Blyton, Five Go Off in a Caravan Bookish things to do with children this summer   The crickets felt it was their duty to warn everybody that summertime cannot last for ever. Even on the most beautiful days in the whole year - the days when summer is changing into autumn - the crickets spread the rumour of sadness and change.― EB White, Charlotte’s Web  Do you remember the Shire, Mr Frodo? It’ll be spring soon. And the orchards will be in blossom. And the birds will be nesting in the hazel thicket. And they’ll be sowing the summer barley in the lower fields... and eating the first of the strawberries with cream. Do you remember the taste of strawberries? ― Sam Gamgee via JRR Tolkien, The Return of the King  Gimmerton chapel bells were still ringing and the full, mellow flow of the beck in the valley came soothingly on the ear. It was a sweet substitute for the yet absent murmur of the summer foliage, which drowned that music about the Grange when the trees were in leaf.― Emily Brontë, Wuthering HeightsTop 10 dangers of summer   It was June, and the world smelled of roses. The sunshine was like powdered gold over the grassy hillside.― Maud Hart Lovelace, Betsy- Tacy and Tib   Everything good, everything magical happens between the months of June and August.― Jenny Han, The Summer I Turned Pretty  The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as though freshly painted; the cloudless sky smiled at itself in the smoothly sparkling lake, the satin-green lawns rippled occasionally in a gentle breeze: June had arrived.― JK Rowling, Harry Potter and the Order of the PhoenixTop 10 long summer reads for children and teens Do you have a favourite summery quotation from children’s fiction? Tell us on Twitter@GdnChildrensBks or by email to childrens.books@theguardian.com and we’ll add them to this list.