The first image that you see in ESPN’s upcoming 30 for 30 documentary mini-series on OJ Simpson is, as you might expect, OJ Simpson. But it’s not OJ from 1994 or even OJ from 1974. It’s a far more modern OJ during a probation hearing. What you see is a man, convicted of numerous felonies including armed robbery, trying his best to convince a panel that he’s a reformed, behaved convict deserving of early release. At 68 years old, if he serves the remainder of his 33-year sentence, he will probably die in prison. This OJ is a man emotionally beaten and humbled, a far cry from the cocksure, assertive football star and actor who once lorded over Los Angeles’s tony Brentwood neighborhood. One can only imagine whether OJ charmed his cellmates the way he charmed the elites of white America for decades before his arrest for the murder of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. What’s far more clear is that Simpson’s uniquely American tragedy shaped much of our debate on race in the 1990s and still reflects our unresolved tensions today.OJ: Made in America: a marvelous, gripping true crime documentary ESPN’s film and FX’s American Crime Story: The People vs OJ Simpson (which premieres on Tuesday night) seek to not only retell the story of Simpson’s trial and subsequent acquittal, they also hope to put into context what the whole sordid affair meant to our culture. Malcolm-Jamal Warner, who plays Simpson’s best friend Al Cowlings in American Crime Story, was living in Los Angeles on the fateful day in June when Simpson and Cowlings fled police custody in a white Ford Bronco. “I watched the chase at home and I remember watching and saying, where are they going? They weren’t driving fast enough to get away. Clearly they were trying to buy time. I couldn’t figure out to what end,” he tells me. The Bronco chase set off a media frenzy around the case that consumed the nation for over a year. Entire television channels, such as Court TV, dedicated their schedules to gavel-to-gavel coverage of the trial. Judge Lance Ito, prosecutor Marcia Clark, and defense attorney Johnnie Cochran became instant celebrities from the constant exposure. We even got our first taste of the Kardashian family thanks to the presence of patriarch Robert on the defense team for Simpson. Race, gender, class and politics all converged to create what was, at the time, the ultimate news story. Simpson’s rise from a lower-middle-class upbringing in San Francisco to multimillionaire status and then his fall from grace comprises a kind of Gatsby-esque story, if Jay Gatsby was accused of murdering Daisy Buchanan and Nick Carraway.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Schwimmer as Robert Kardashian, left, and John Travolta as Robert Shapiro. Photograph: Ray Mickshaw/APAmerican Crime Story is easily the most ambitious attempt to dramatize the Simpson trial thus far. Glee and American Horror Story creator Ryan Murphy executive-produced the miniseries and directed multiple episodes. His frequent collaborator, Sarah Paulson, portrays Clark as a sensitive, frazzled, complicated antihero who stakes her career and reputation on convicting Simpson, who is played by Cuba Gooding Jr. John Travolta, who hasn’t much been in the spotlight since his “Adele Dazeem” incident at the 2014 Academy Awards, plays Simpson’s lead defense attorney Robert Shapiro in such a garish, florid fashion that it borders on camp (and should at least guarantee him a Golden Globe or People’s Choice nomination). The standout performance, though, is Courtney B Vance as Cochran, a lawyer who became something of a folk hero for his turns of phrase and spirited defense of the seemingly guilty Simpson. Even for those who weren’t around to witness the spectacle, “If it does not fit, you must acquit” remains a recognizable catchphrase. Vance imbues Cochran with the requisite bravado while also supplying a self-doubt that comes with the heavy burden of representing not just the world’s most famous murder suspect, but also the entire population of black America. The Simpson trial came two years after the acquittal of four LAPD officers over the beating of black motorist Rodney King and the resulting riot that consumed large portions of the city. With racial tension and mistrust of police at their height, Simpson’s ethnicity became a major part of the case, which American Crime Story touches on in just about every episode. It emphasizes the racial divide between the African Americans who overwhelmingly saw Simpson as innocent and white Americans who were convinced of his guilt. “As black people, we have a very different relationship to the law and the justice system. I know a lot of people in the black community celebrated OJ getting off, because most often the justice system very rarely feels like it works for us,” Warner said. The Simpson verdict was, in a way, a culmination of years of police mistreatment in the black community and was seen as a balancing of the scales. American Crime Story flashes back to King early in the series, but it’s the ESPN 30 for 30 film called OJ: Made in America that delves the deepest into all that led up to that moment in history.I spoke to Peabody and Emmy-winning director Ezra Edelman while he was at Sundance premiering his series, the first ever 30 for 30 mini-series (it’s five episodes in total) and he took great pains to establish the circumstances that incubated the Simpson phenomenon. “It’s all about people who were a part of Los Angeles, or part of OJ’s ecosystem. There’s someone who said the film should be called The People’s History of OJ Simpson,” Edelman said.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Paulson as Marcia Clark and Sterling K Brown as Christopher Darden. Photograph: Ray Mickshaw/APThe documentary jumps back and forth from Simpson’s days as a golden boy of University of Southern California football and superstar for the Buffalo Bills of the NFL to the history of police misconduct in Los Angeles. In particular, Edelman points to the controversial tenure of LAPD chief Daryl Gates, who hoped to militarize the department through concepts like the Swat team and initiatives with names like Operation Hammer that sought to deal with gang violence and drug dealing through extreme shows of force. Gates frequently found himself apologizing for racially insensitive remarks, was the police chief during the King beating, and was criticized for his slow response to the riots.Edelman believes that Gates, King, Operation Hammer, and countless other incidents made LA the perfect breeding ground for the Simpson spectacle, but also illustrate the never-ending cycle of racial animus that continues to vex American culture. “It never left. The fact that we’ve had such a volatile year, with police brutality, doesn’t mean it hasn’t been going on back 20 years, to Rodney King. The 26 years before Rodney King was the Watts riots. There’s a cyclical nature and a consistency to this. It’s as relevant in 1965 as it is in 2016.”Perhaps that’s why Simpson, a man withering away in prison, stripped of his larger-than-life stature, still captivates us in the 21st century. The trial, and the racist cop Mark Fuhrman that the defense used to suggest that OJ might have been framed, are all on camera and on record. The King beating was filmed by a lone passerby. The Tamir Rice shooting was taped and viewed by millions of people, but even that visual evidence isn’t enough to convince a segment of the population that something is amiss. “Because of cellphones and video cameras, we see, almost on a daily basis, video of black people being victims of horrible police abuse. Even with cameras around, it’s like the police don’t care. You can only imagine the level of disregard before video technology,” says Warner.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   OJ Simpson speaks in court before his sentencing as his attorneys Gabriel Grasso, left, and Yale Galanter listen at the Clark County regional justice center in 2008. Photograph: Pool/Getty ImagesThe fact of Simpson’s guilt or innocence has almost become secondary to the emotions the case still brings up. To some, it was a necessary corrective to an unbalanced criminal justice system. To others, it was another instance of a rich man getting away with violence toward his spouse. Edelman hopes that his documentary illuminates the man Simpson was just as much as it reflects the social issues his life brought to the forefront. “We OD’d so much on OJ, we no longer think about OJ before the trial.” The film is packed with footage of Simpson’s football exploits – the athletic feats were what Americans found initially appealing about him, after all. To Edelman, as a football player, “he wasn’t just great, he was dazzling”. Watching the film, one gets the sense that what drove Simpson was, as Edelman put it to me, “a desire to become as famous and as popular as possible. The way to do that was through the seduction of white America and I think that was something he was willing to do, and he was capable of doing it.”That seduction is done now and OJ remains in prison. Tabloids speculate on his health and he remains one of the most hated men in America, along with, ironically, racist former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling. Unless Simpson confesses to the murder of Nicole and Goldman, it seems that the story is maddeningly, unsatisfyingly incomplete. That ambiguity only makes some more anxious to find some meaning among the chaos. Maybe the only lesson we can derive from the OJ Simpson trial is that nothing has changed. Edelman strikes a pessimistic note. “We all pay attention as a city or a country for a few months, or a year, but it’s still happening now. All we can hope for is increased vigilance.” No matter how many times this happens, he thinks we are likely to repeat our grave societal errors. “If you want to go from a beating that wasn’t caught on camera that led to the Watts riots to one guy with a camcorder filming Rodney King getting beaten to what has come out in the last year, we’ve evolved in the way that technology’s evolved. The acts themselves haven’t changed. And we haven’t changed.”