It’s easy to read the headline “Julianne Moore to play villain in Kingsman 2” and balk, bemoaning the action sequel as being firmly beneath the Oscar-winning actor’s considerable talents. But her rumoured role in the film is just the latest in a string of similar announcements for award-winning female stars over the age of 40.Sex change: why male roles are being rewritten for women Vin Diesel’s extreme sports reboot xXx: the Return of Xander Cage recently added Oscar-nominee Toni Collette to the cast, Oscar-winner Charlize Theron is loosely attached to play the antagonist in Fast & Furious 8, Oscar-winner Cate Blanchett is set to face off against the Avengers in Thor: Ragnarok and last week saw Oscar-nominee Laura Dern become a last-minute addition to the sprawling roll call of Star Wars: Episode VIII. Later this year we’ll also see Oscar-nominee Laura Linney in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 and, perhaps most surprisingly, Cannes best actress winner Charlotte Gainsbourg show up in Independence Day 2.The big-budget world of the blockbuster franchise has typically been somewhat closed off to women of this ilk while their male counterparts still dominate. Robert Downey Jr (50), Johnny Depp (52), Tom Cruise (53) and Will Smith (47) are all seen as viable and profitable names to hinge major properties on, but aside from perhaps Angelina Jolie, it’s only younger women who are allowed to compete. Even then, we’re mainly talking about Jennifer Lawrence and Scarlett Johansson, who is still to receive her Black Widow movie though.Now this latest trend of hiring inarguably overqualified women to take on roles in action sequels is hardly evidence of a total sea change. None of these women are taking on leads but they’re in the conversation. It’s too tempting to dismiss Toni Collette playing fifth fiddle to Vin Diesel as a depressing sign of a talented actor lowering herself for a paycheque, but somewhere in the process these roles are now being written, however small they might be.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Linney with Will Arnett and Megan Fox in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2. Photograph: PRThe parts themselves tend to be divided into two very different categories. The first is “office stiff” as exemplified by Collette playing a bureaucrat in the intelligence service in xXx 3, Linney down as a bureau chief of organised crime for New York City in TMNT2 and Frances McDormand once playing the US director of National Intelligence in Transformers 3. Then there are the villain roles, which Theron, Moore and Blanchett are set to play in their franchise efforts. Older women as love interests or reckless action heroes are somewhat less common.'Blonde, fit, smokin' hot': movie producer shares sexist scripts on Twitter We’re often too quick to assume that female actors who have excelled in more serious fare aren’t going to be challenged or even interested in starring in films where special effects take centre stage. It’s a base thought process and one which recalls a stereotypical view of genre and its relationship with gender. Last year, Jurassic World director Colin Trevorrow was attacked for attaching this line of thinking to explain why more female directors aren’t taking on tent-pole projects.“I want to believe that a film-maker with both the desire and ability to make a studio blockbuster will be given the opportunity to make their case,” he said on Twitter. “I stress desire because I honestly think that’s a part of the issue. Many of the top female directors in our industry are not interested in doing a piece of studio business for its own sake. These film-makers have clear voices and stories to tell that don’t necessarily involve superheroes or spaceships or dinosaurs.”His comment was, quite rightly, criticised, and with Monster director Patty Jenkins currently making DC’s stand-alone Wonder Woman film and Selma’s Ava DuVernay taking on Trevorrow-scripted sci-fi thriller Intelligent Life, women are making some slow progress at increasing their behind-the-camera presence on blockbusters. This is likely to have a ripple effect, with a study last year showing that women are more likely to hire other women on set if granted the power. There’s also the matter of commerce. Women are still earning less in Hollywood and, with bigger budgets, bigger salaries are naturally set to follow. It’s therefore understandable for an actor such as Moore, who joked that she paid for her own food on the set of Still Alice, that a well-paid turn in Kingsman 2 might be appealing.But for some performers used to taking on roles with substance and depth, a brief excursion to the green screen often leaves a sour taste. When interviewed about her brief role in Godzilla, Juliette Binoche said: “I don’t know how much fun you can have when you have to die in two seconds, and you’re the one real woman character and you’re dead in three minutes and 45 seconds.”At this stage, it’s hard to know just how rewarding and substantial this forthcoming set of roles will be for the female actors in question, and given the precious studio-led PR machine for each franchise, the stars are unlikely to tell us the truth pre-release. But if equality is to become a standard in Hollywood, it means that women have the right to star in brainless popcorn fodder just as much as men do.