I thought after a lifetime as a news reporter for the British tabloid press I was unshockable.I’d been a pen-pal to a child murderer to eek out a confession and gone from child abuse court cases that left me in tears to infiltrating traveller dog-fighting gangs – I thought I’d seen it all. So it was with interest, but without trepidation, that in October 2014 I set off to the Turkish Syrian border to report on British jihadis intent on joining extremists in Syria.Why fiction can help us understand the Syrian refugee crisis But reporting that day shocked me to the core and changed my life forever.In the one-street border town of Suruc, the last in Turkey before you reach Syria, I noticed the children first.Scruffy little gangs of boys and girls - the pavements were over run with them. They were everywhere. I knew that many refugees had fled the war in Syria and sought sanctuary in Turkey. I just hadn’t expected to find them all on one street.The Christmas story retold: Refuge – in pictures  This sea of misery overwhelmed me. The refugees ranged from babies to worried teens and cold and uncomfortable old women. Many over the age of 18 had stayed to fight in Kobani. We chatted to a group of children from a school in Kobani. They were living in a council courtyard in Suruc, sleeping on concrete under tarpaulin. They were filthy and hungry but resilient enough – they all wanted to go back to school. Four-year-old Rojdan complained that it was cold at night and his friend Silva, five, said she missed her dad, brothers and chocolate. Through my Kurdish husband we asked for a show of hands from any children whose dads were still fighting in Kobani. One-by-one every grubby little hand was raised with pride Plucky Dilvan, 13, whipped them all into a rousing chorus of the Kurdish national anthem. Turning their raised hands into the defiant Kurdish victory salute that sends fear into the hearts of Islamic extremists.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vanessa and the kids from Kobani. Dilvan is on the right in the white-ish T shirt Photograph: Vanessa Altin These “mudlings” as we nicknamed them, were lovely, just like my own kids. We scraped together all the cash we had and bought up what was left in the local market to share out. Some of the images and accounts that I heard sickened me – none more so than a photo of a baby about to be beheaded. Her crime - to be Kurdish and the wrong kind of Muslim. Seeing the distress etched on her sobbing face as she was pinned to the floor with a blade to her throat has haunted me to this day.Patrick Ness's refugee appeal tops £500,000  Since my return to the UK there is barely a day that goes past when I don’t think of them.  It’s what prompted me to write The Pomegranate Tree. It was in the hope that my children could hear for themselves the voices of their Syrian cousins – to understand a little what it’s like to walk a mile in their shoes.Jon Walter’s top 10 refugee heroes in children’s fiction  Books I’d read as a kid have stayed with me, influenced my thinking to this day. Books like Pollyanna and her ability to find something to be glad about in everything. The Railway Children and Swallows and Amazons, with their capable independent casts, inspired me. And I loved A Pony in the Luggage and the Shrinking of Treehorn for highlighting how adults ignore the plight and the pranks of their children. More recently I was moved by Alone on a Wide Wide Sea and Wonder – for the journeys they took me on.That’s why I chose to write for you, the young adult audience, because you are the future and I’m hoping, with a better understanding and a little inspiration you can improve the mess we’ve made of the Middle East. That’s why it’s essential you know the truth – painful and ugly as it may be. I wanted you to understand the reality of what those children are facing, to know that if they had a choice, which they don’t, they would choose to be at home in Syria, with their families and friends. They don’t want to be traipsing across Europe, or drowning in the Med.  By using Dilvan to narrate her story I hope she draws you into her world and that you fall in love with her – as I did back at the camps.  Since visiting schools to talk about the book I have been bowled over by the reaction of the students. They have displayed a mature sensitivity, compassion and willingness to help that is so often lacking in adults. The children that I met in Suruc weren’t sorry for themselves – they were just hopeful that they could go home. I was over-whelmed by their resilience and cheerfulness in the face of such adversity. I found their warmth and kindness breathtaking.  But because they can’t speak for themselves I have tried to give them a voice in The Pomegranate Tree. I have tried to be as honest and faithful to real events as possible. Sadly a lot remains unreported, considered too shocking for British audiences. Personally, I think if some children are forced to live this nightmare it’s not too much that you, at least, know about it. I don’t kid myself that The Pomegranate Tree will change the world. I am just hoping that by showing Dilvan and her friends as the brave, funny, desperate people that they are, we can all help in creating a better future for them. Here’s hoping!Buy The Pomegranate Tree at the Guardian bookshop.