One thing definitely worth salvaging from the wreckage of Prometheus? Michael Fassbender’s David, the hyper-capable android with a clipped English accent and inbuilt superiority complex. In Ridley Scott’s sequel Alien: Covenant, Fassbender is back for a double-shift, playing both the original David – reintroduced via a cryptic prologue – and Walter, an updated synthetic now shipping with an American accent. Despite the challenge of finding the nuances in playing what are essentially two operating systems on legs, Fassbender acquits himself well, even when delivering dialogue like: “I’ll do the fingering.” So how does this latest dual performance stack up against other actors who have played opposite themselves on screen?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Body language … Nicolas Cage as Charlie Kaufman and fictional twin Donald in Adaptation. Photograph: AlamyNicolas Cage: AdaptationThe Kaufman twins, Charlie and Donald, both look suspiciously like paunchy, frizzy-haired versions of Nic Cage. Some physical differentiation between the two might have helped audiences orient themselves amid the structural chicanery and postmodern flourishes of Spike Jonze’s Adaptation, based on screenwriter Charlie Kaufman’s real-life struggles to adapt Susan Orlean’s non-fiction bestseller The Orchid Thief. Thankfully, there was no need, because Cage inhabits both Charlie (the self-loathing worrywart) and Donald (the party-hearty doofus) so vividly you can instinctively tell them apart by body language alone.Lindsay Lohan: The Parent Trap      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   11-year-old Lindsay Lohan in The Parent Trap. Photograph: AlamyIn the original 1961 version of The Parent Trap, 15-year-old Hayley Mills was convincingly replicated into twins by advanced visual effects overseen by Walt Disney himself. In the 1998 remake, the plot remains the same – two long-lost sisters meet unexpectedly, then conspire to reunite their estranged parents by pulling the classic switcheroo – but there is an increased emphasis on Atlantic-crossing accent work. Making an impressively assured movie debut, 11-year-old Lohan ably delivers both Hallie’s US teen-speak and Annie’s cut-glass English as the sparky sisters bond over fencing duels and ad-hoc ear-piercing.Tom Hardy: LegendIn the spirit of Armie Hammer seamlessly playing the Winklevoss brothers in The Social Network, Hardy offered up a CG-assisted, Bane-inflected BOGOF for Legend, writer-director Brian Helgeland’s star-struck retelling of the Kray twins’ rise to gangland dominance in 1960s London. Even with his facial expressions mostly restricted to scowls and glares, Hardy is mesmeric as both Reggie, the fiercely loyal legbreaker, and Ronnie, whose comfy cardies and Two Ronnies eyewear disguise a terrifying unpredictability. Adding another brace of evocative brogues to Hardy’s ever-expanding collection of gnarly accents was just a bonus.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch our video review ofLegendCate Blanchett: Coffee and CigarettesBill Murray, Iggy Pop and Steve Coogan were just some of Jim Jarmusch’s boho friends tapped to star as heightened versions of themselves in his 2003 anthology of shaggy-dog vignettes. Cate Blanchett went the extra mile, playing both highly strung actress Cate and her leery rock-chick cousin Shelly. Attempting to reconnect in the lobby of a hotel where “Cate” is enduring a press junket, it is a deft 12-minute two-hander, so convincing in its portrayal of family prickliness that the dual-role gimmick melts away. Inhabiting multiple roles is becoming a Blanchett trademark: she plays 13 different characters in Julian Rosefeldt’s ambitious art installation-turned-upcoming movie Manifesto.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Home clone … Ewan McGregor in The Island. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoEwan McGregor: The IslandIn Michael Bay’s sledgehammer sci-fi blockbuster, Scarlett Johansson and Ewan McGregor play two sheltered clones who break out of a blandly sinister future-prison to seek out their original “sponsors”. Due to some tragic circumstances, Johansson never gets to meet her real-world equivalent face-to-face. But McGregor’s naive but noble replicant has multiple scenes opposite his brash Scottish sire, a moneybags speedboat designer with a love of flash cars and an eye for the ladies, cloned or otherwise. While the film is a deafening disaster, it was at least a good trial run for McGregor, currently playing two bickering brothers in season three of Fargo.This article was amended on 11 May 2017 to provide correct images of Michael Fassbender’s characters in Alien: Covenant