Some people think that I’m hopelessly old-fashioned because I still choreograph to music. Well, so be it. I feel deeply that the instinct to move to music is ancient and so basic that it goes way beyond any recent short-term fashions. Exploring this magical link, trying to bring it into sharper focus, has been central to my choreography for over 40 years now, and it still teaches me new things.Music is a fundamental expression of humanity and so is dance. Both can be the strong manifestation of the spirit of a community. The way different countries and cultures connect and cross-fertilise has in particular fascinated me. Two recent dance pieces, Gypsy Mixture and last year’s Nomadic were inspired by the haunting singing of Romanian Gypsies and by the way these songs reached listeners worldwide by being combined with techno and hip-hop elements. To me this mesmerising clash of old and new worlds, inspired by the wanderings of travelling people and the ragbag way they pick up new things, creates a powerful new hybrid.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’ve recently been exploring music affected by travel in a different way. Last summer, I made Mazur, to seven Chopin mazurkas. After a revolution in Poland, the young Chopin found himself exiled, forbidden to re-enter his homeland. In Paris he achieved big success, but his piano music – and perhaps especially his mazurkas – became a vehicle for expressing all his feelings about his own country.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A 1987 concert recording of Horowitz performing Chopin’s Mazurka in B minor Op 33 No 4The dance I made was for just two men, Chopin and a Polish friend, maybe, who support and comfort each other in their sense of deprivation, identifying strongly with their Polish heritage. The evocative quality of Chopin’s music, expressed through countless interpretations of this quintessentially Polish dance, gave full rein to his homesickness and his sense of deep affection for his country. (Interestingly, when an amnesty was eventually proclaimed in Poland, Chopin chose to stay in Paris – he never went home.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inspired by the evocative quality of Chopin’s music … Liam Riddick and Nicholas Bodych in Mazur. Photograph: Chris NashThe influence of travel on an artist intrigued me again this year. My newest dance, An Italian in Madrid, is a celebration of the marvellous music of Domenico Scarlatti. Scarlatti felt overshadowed by his composer father Alessandro and so left Italy to accept a position in what at that time must have seemed the far-flung and distant country of Portugal. There, part of his job at the court in Lisbon was to teach keyboard playing to the royal princess. Maria Barbara turned out to be a talented musician and very serious about music. When she married a Spanish prince, she took her music master with her to Spain and thus was Scarlatti exposed to the impassioned thrumming and raw harmonies of the Andalusian guitar. He proceeded to weave these exciting rhythms into a great number (over 500) of studies he wrote for the princess when she settled eventually in Madrid. These pieces are small masterpieces and, as well as being hugely enjoyable, they are daringly innovative.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Are they human or dancer? Richard Alston's move machines – in pictures Scarlatti was inspired by contact with a different language of music, and he had the courage to truly embrace this. I have sought to learn from this marriage of two worlds by asking a superb young dancer trained in the south Asian classical dance form kathak to perform with us. Vidya Patel dances with my company in this new dance and has brought the richness of her own dance language to bear on my choreography. The origins of kathak as a classical form were at the Moghul courts of north India and it has a graceful and flowing style with a great sense of nobility and aristocracy. In this sense, it has things in common with another form of dance associated with a royal court – classical ballet. It’s no surprise then that An Italian in Madrid is full of classical footwork from both cultures, combined with the fluid and expressive arms that both dance languages have in common. Making this dance has been a wonderful learning experience for me – now I just have to take it into a theatre and see if it works.• Richard Alston Dance Company perform An Italian in Madrid and Mazur at Sadler’s Wells, London on 29 and 30 March. Box office: 020-7863 8000.