If you were a traveller to Florence in 1414, the moment you passed through the city’s gates you entered a world of its own: the thick dialect Florentines spoke was hard for a Venetian to understand; the local ways of doing business were strange to travellers from Genoa; local crimes and punishments were unfamiliar even to migrants from nearby Siena. Above all, at that date Florence was a polity in which the majority of its citizens could participate – Medici rule was yet to come. This was the classic city-state: a place which shaped itself.Today, Singapore and Hong Kong are the two city-states which come immediately to mind. They are very different – Singapore seeming much more in the classic mode of self-control; Hong Kong a city which did keep a certain degree of autonomy even during colonial terms, but is struggling to hold on to it today.If we look away from politics, even these two are not city-states culturally, at least of the kind our ancestors knew. When your plane lands in 2014, once you pass immigration, take a taxi to your hotel and go in search of something to eat, neither city seems so different from the Beijing, Delhi or Buenos Aires, New York or London you just left. Similarly, the business of big cities is globally converging and mutually contingent: cities shape each other. They are networked cities rather than independent city-states.Should we want to transform the networked city into a more locally oriented, self-contained city-state? Max Weber certainly thought so. The German sociologist, who lived before the age of networks but in an age of nationalist passions, thought that locally oriented cities dealing with practical issues on the ground were likely to resist the blandishments of nationalisms, or other -isms.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The iconic city-state of Hong Kong is currently wrestling with its autonomous traditions. Photograph: Kin Cheung/APWeber thought the city-state could be inclusive as a nation could not be, particularly in giving migrants who had crossed national borders standing as citizens with local rights. He called these “place-based” rights. Weber represents a stream of thinking which emphasises the “right to the city”, in the phrase of the urbanist Henri Lefebvre; a right to be accounted and included in a specific and defined place. Were Weber or Lefebvre alive today, their critique of the networked city would be that only a few people enjoy rights within it.In contrast, the Algerian Franz Fanon celebrated the village and the farm as more truly autonomous than life in the city. He believed the autonomous city was from its origins a malign construct in the developing world; cities were the places in which the imperial powers first installed themselves, and even after de-colonisation, big cities like Algiers, Cairo, and Mumbai retained the top-down bureaucracies and political habits of rule of the colonial masters.In development work, Fanon’s beliefs proved immensely influential as a kind of rural, revolutionary romanticism – until, that is, the great growth-spurt of cities in the last 30 years forced aid workers, foundations and development ministries to take seriously that the city has become a much bigger, and much different, beast than in colonialist times. What Weber and Fanon shared, though, is a belief in autonomy, in local self-control.Now, that belief in autonomy as a goal needs to be unset. New realities oblige us to think about the city in a different way. The most urgent of these, to my mind, is climate change. The perils of climate change cannot be addressed by thinking at the scale of urban self-shaping, as Weber wanted, or of local, inclusive democracy, such as Lefebvre believed in. And climate change has rendered Fanon’s opposition of urban in favour of rural out of date.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   New Yorkers living along the coast wanted to rebuild their homes after Hurricane Sandy rather than move away, but this strategy is not always sustainable. Photograph: Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesHurricane Sandy in New York was a sharp lesson to Americans about these dimensions of climate change. This supposedly once-in-a-century storm followed a similar event just the year before, the storm surge devastating much of the city’s coastline and destroying much of its inland energy infrastructure.Afterwards, those who lived along the coast wanted to rebuild the places they had lived in rather than move away. This local sentiment was translated into expenses that local communities were willing to pay in order to erect storm walls and barriers. But scientific opinion, marshalled by programmes such as Rebuild by Design, has shown that this strategy is not sustainable, and has argued that some communities should be broken up, others abandoned, others reconfigured drastically.The International Organisation on Climate Change (IOCC) casts this difference as one between mitigation and adaptation. But politically, it is a conflict between the Weberian value placed on self-determination, and a policy which emphasises the need to work with natural forces beyond the control of debates and votes in a particular city.The rebuilding which attempts to push back the sea so that people can return to their homes is very much in the city-state mode, aiming to keep the city together; whereas the adaptation strategy aims to break up much of the city. Adapting to climate change, in other words, means that coherence of the city’s form will alter, due to forces outside human control.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victims of Hurricane Sandy embrace: ‘Under nature’s sway, the very idea of autonomy loses its meaning.’ Photograph: Justin Lane/EPANature is undemocratic. Voting and inclusion cannot change the facts on the ground about how the climate operates, of course, but the issue cuts deeper. Collective will is irrelevant to adaptation strategies. Under nature’s sway, the very idea of autonomy loses its meaning. “Unpredictable” is the key word: there is certainly a water crisis coming, but we don’t know the form it will take. Almost all models of climate change argue for non-linear changes, chance combinations, erratic consequences occurring in the coming decades. All this argues that rural and urban be seen together, as one disturbed ecology.The political problem is how to practise governance under these conditions. Like “autonomy”, the climatic crisis is rendering the word “control” problematic. I’m not a gloomy pessimist, but I think the seductive idea of a place controlling its own fortunes is out of date. The climate crisis obliges us to think about our fortunes in a different way. To adapt, the city can not longer cohere; we must meet the uncertainty of a physically unsettled world by thinking of the city as itself a more unstable place.This is the logic of what natural scientists call “open systems”. These are structures which model chance, or seemingly illogical change, or complex events which destabilise an equilibrium condition. When IOCC climatologists moved from strategies of mitigation to adaptation, they began using open-systems thinking to model turbulence and disruption in storm patterns, polar meltdown and rising sea levels. All these phenomena are erratic short-term, year on year, though the long-term effects are certain over the course of decades.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A guard watches over the US border with Mexico: movement across this border is an erratic, convulsive process. Photograph: John Moore/Getty ImagesWe should be thinking about the networks linking big cities in the same way. Specific patterns of migration are as unstable in the immediate term as changes in the natural environment; for example, movement across the Mexican-American border is an erratic, convulsive process year-on-year, though the cumulative effect is clear. So too is the economy of networked cities: financial flows are not smooth and linear, nor are investments in real estate or primary industry. Open-system analysis thinks about networks as trembling rather than placid connections – and because the connections are complex, they are peculiarly open to disruption.In everyday life, we want to be in control as much as possible. But we are moving into an era, particularly in our relations with the natural world, where the sphere of human self-control and autonomy is shrinking. As an open-systems theorist, this is why I want to argue against the impulse to privilege local urban law, and against Weber’s belief in place-based rights. These are closed political fantasies, as though politics could make the city more self-sufficient.The laws we need will have to deal in some regions with rights to scarce water, in others we’ll need strategies for abandoning parts of the city exposed to flooding, in yet other places we’ll have to ration electricity because we now longer burn the coal to generate it. Now? A generation from now?  The one certain thing is that the longer we delay changing fixed habits, the worse the problems will be. The urban challenge we face is how to live more openly, in the sense of acknowledging and coping with disorder.Richard Sennett will be speaking at Urban.Age 2014 in Delhi on 14-15 November