At last the day has come when Europe gets to treat itself to several weeks of unremarkable group games, before erupting into two rounds of cagey knockout games, before a dull final crowns the whole affair. Yes, it’s Euro 2016 time and, as with every international football tournament, there were a load of people who thought it would be a really good idea to record a single for it. Or, even worse, an “official anthem”. But who fares best? We’ve listened to some of the pre-tournament favours – and this is the verdict.Wales: Manic Street Preachers – Together Stronger (C’mon Wales)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Rock music and football stadiums go together. It’s just a fact. Otherwise we wouldn’t have stadium rock. And Manic Street Preachers, as a Welsh band who play football stadiums in Wales, were a natural fit for the official Welsh anthem for Euro 2016. What we like about Together Stronger (C’mon Wales) is that it manages to include all the Manics’ traditional songwriting tricks into an official football song. Lyrics shoehorned into bars that don’t quite contain them? Check. Randomly inserted list? Check. References to history? Check. And injustice? Check. Possibly obscure to many listeners? Check. “Joe Jordan won with his hand / Russia was Giggsy’s last chance / Paul Bodin’s penalty miss / That ’85 night was so tragic.” That’s the Manic Street Preachers and football, right there.Verdict: finalistsFrance: Skip the Use – I Was Made For Lovin’ You (My Team)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 1979, Kiss disgusted their hardcore fans, the Kiss Army, by discarding clunky rock guitars and lyrics about slowly robbing you of your virgin soul and recording a disco song, I Was Made For Lovin’ You. In 2016, the French FA disgusted their team’s hardcore fans by recording exactly the same song, though the disgust was caused for different reasons: the song is sung in English, by the group Skip the Use, who apparently used to play punk. Not that you can tell from this. The greater sin, though, is what they’ve done with the song. Which is: almost nothing. Except change the word “baby” to “my team” and “girl” to team. Hence the alarming opening verse: “Tonight I want to give it all to you / In the darkness / There’s so much I want to do / And tonight I wanna lay it at your feet / ’Cos team, I was made for you / And team, you were made for me.” Which all makes it sound like Skip the Use are planning the kind of event you can find on extremely specialist websites, rather than going to a football match.Verdict: group stageWales: Super Furry Animals – Bing BongSuper Furry Animals – Bing Bong video Wales might have only one world-class player, in the form of Gareth Bale. But they have by some distance the strongest squad in the musical tournament, with Super Furry Animals providing the flair alongside the solid workrate and commitment of Manic Street Preachers. Not only that, but they emerged with their first new music in seven years for the Euros. “It’s not the most obvious song, but it kinda hits the nail on the head – it’s got the chants, it’s got the tempo changes like you get on the terraces, it’s got a singalongability,” said the group’s Cian Ciaran. “You never know, but sometimes the most unlikely songs make it onto the terraces.” Now, we suspect – from decades of going to football – that this is unlikely to be sung by 30,000 people at a match any time soon. Unless the lager has been dosed with acid. But it doesn’t stop Bing Bong being the only one of these songs you’ll want to listen to once Euro 2016 has ended.Verdict: championsEngland: Four Lions – We Are England   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Leaving aside the unfortunate coincidence of the group name being the same as that of Chris Morris’s black comedy about some hapless Islamic fundamentalists, there’s something grimly predictable about this collaboration between Shaun Ryder, Kermit, Paul Oakenfold and Goldie (with a bit of Bez in the video). What’s grimly predictable is the bullishness of its version of being an England football fan – “We’re England ’til we die, until we die, until we die” – and the fact that it sounds as if it recorded in 1996, when Ryder and Kermit were making the Euro 96 song England’s Irie with Black Grape. Except England’s Irie, even 20 years on, still sounds a whole lot fresher and more forward looking than We Are England (“My wife’s lactating and I’m spectating, it’s a football thing,” remains the unlikeliest lyric ever in a football song). Nevertheless, it’s recognisably a record made by people who actually like music, so it get plus points for that.Verdict: knockout stagesUefa: David Guetta featuring Zara Larsson – This One’s For You   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The official song of the entire tournament unites the French automaton of dance pop with this year’s breakout Scandi sensation. And opens with: “We were born to fly / So let’s start living / ’Til it all falls down.” Those are not reassuring words for those concerned with stadium safety. Aside from that, the Uefa “anthem” is exactly what you’d expect: self-consciously uplifting, full of nonsensical but sort-of relevant lyrics. And then, for no apparent reason, it has a weird chipmunk-voiced section after each chorus. It sounds like it took a good 10 minutes to write, another 15 to record – exactly like every other self-consciously uplifting “anthem” ever composed for a sporting event, in fact.Verdict: group stagesNorthern Ireland: DJ Kenno – Will Grigg’s on Fire   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This one isn’t an official track. In fact, it’s an oddly heartwarming story. A Wigan fan called Sean Kennedy made up a chant for the club’s striker, Will Grigg, based on Gala’s 1995 hit Freed from Desire. The chant transcended England’s northwest, becoming a staple of the Northern Ireland supporters. Then it became a meme, with the song dubbed on top of footage of others clubs’ players celebrating. Or ants circling. And then the production duo Blonde and singer Zak Abel stepped in, turning the chant into a single, which was No 51 in the midweek charts this week. Sadly, the eventual record lacks the charm of the backstory, and the joy of supporters singing the chant. Verdict: group stagesRepublic of Ireland: Seo Linn – The Irish Roar   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s perhaps germane to tell you that the Irish band Seo Linn’s breakthrough was scoring a YouTube hit with a Hibernification of Avicii’s Wake Me Up. And so the official Irish song for Euro 2016 is as doggedly Irish as Four Lions’ effort is doggedly English: all swirling fiddles and pipes amid the peat bogs, even as they proclaim: “And now we’re on our way down the Champs Elysée / The Euros gonna hear the Irish roar.” We’re a little concerned about their reference to driving down the autobahn to watch Ireland’s games in the 2012 Euros in Poland and Ukraine, which suggests an approach to European politics popular in Berlin in 1939. Aside from that, utterly inoffensive.Verdict: group stagesCoca-Cola: Avicii v Conrad Sewell – Taste the Feeling   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s not only football teams and sporting kleptocracies who have official tournament anthems these days. So, to, do tournament sponsors. And so Coca-Cola in March revealed that Avicii, in company with the unknown Australian singer Conrad Sewell – would that it could have been Brian Sewell – would be fronting Taste the Feeling, the soft drink giant’s official tournament anthem. It gets better. The project was put together in conjunction with a company called Deviant Ventures, who help identify the right songs for Coke campaigns. Never heard of them? “Deviant Ventures is an innovation incubator … We like to think we are agents of deviance and strive to help others take a measurable step away from the norm … We like chasing the rabbit of curiosity to make what seems impossible a possible business venture … Think of deviance as an innovation virus, one that infects the status quo, changing traditional thinking at a cellular, primal level.” The job title of the man who announced this song was “chief of possibilities”. If you even want to hear the track after reading that, look at your soul.Verdict: disqualified before the tournament because Deviant Ventures are so up themselvesGermany: Felix Jaehn und Herbert Grönemeyer – Jeden für Jeden   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On the bright side, it’s not identikit four-to-the-floor eurodance. In fact the skittering rhythm makes it seems oddly unlike a football anthem. You can’t bounce up and down to this at all. You can stand to attention, and that’s about it. It’s possible Google Translate isn’t the best tool for working out what the lyrics mean, but please, oh please, let the translation of the chorus be correct, for who could resist: “And the quake, which you entrain where happiness pulsates / This is called life and the head turns to euphoria.” Quite, dear boy, quite.Verdict: Knockout stages