Film is the last frontier for tobacco companies, according to the World Health Organisation, which wants any film portraying smoking to be given an adult certificate. Some of us valiantly kick the habit, enduring the hell of withdrawal and staggering out the other side. Meanwhile, deprived of so much sponsorship and advertising in recent years, WHO argues that tobacco companies are recruiting the next generation of smokers via cinema. And so the smoke ring continues.WHO’s report, Smoke-Free Movies, published yesterday, cites the statistic that 44% of all Hollywood films contain smoking. Another study claims that on-screen smoking accounts for 37% of all new adolescent smokers. The US’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated in 2014 that exposure to on-screen smoking would create more than 6 million young American smokers in that year alone. So there’s no denying that there’s a problem.Films portraying smoking should get adult rating, says WHO This next generation will be aware, in an abstract kind of way, that giving up smoking is not easy. The problem is that they just don’t think it will be a problem for them.I have just given up for the fifth, or perhaps the sixth, time – but this time it’s different. I intend to make it stick. I started when I was 18 and living in Paris, partly because I found my then boyfriend’s habit so disgusting that I thought I might join him in it. Stupid. This year would be my 10th year.If only would-be smokers appreciated how tough it is. Previous attempts to quit saw me try many methods. The Allen Carr book, where you give up only when you have finished it, meaning that I read it painfully slowly, a paragraph at a time, until I eventually discarded it. I tried vaping, which only seemed to make me crave a real fag more. I tried the gum, and not drinking, and the patches (so tricky to light, as the old joke goes), and the Champix. I read Zeno’s Conscience and Books v Cigarettes and Cigarettes Are Sublime, and tried to convince myself that smoking was a literary necessity. I had a health scare and went cold turkey, then started again. I had a period as a social smoker – the annoying scrounger who bums when they’re hammered, who relishes the naughtiness, the camaraderie. And on, and on and on.There’s no one so obsessive about nicotine as the recently deprived smoker. But this time is different – I’m not interested in thinking about smoking, because I have fallen out of love with it. In a long, drawn-out demise that resembles the subtle fading of a love affair, my infatuation has withered into a dull, quiet indifference. The latest smoking memoir, Nicotine, by Gregor Hens, lies on my desk ignored. I’m not interested in reading about smoking, or talking about it, or doing it. Because while being lectured to about smoking is boring, so is being addicted to it.I wish that there was some way to invoke this feeling of boredom in other smokers, because it really is effective. After years of feeling “got at” by anti-smoking lobbyists, I now find myself supporting any initiative that might reduce the number of smokers, this latest measure included. Nannyish and overbearing though it might seem, if giving a film an adult certificate because it normalises smoking – or even goes as far as making it look cool – works, then it should be supported. It’s not as though it constitutes full censorship. Art, some will argue, must reflect reality, but now, even outdoors where it is permitted, smoking is becoming an increasingly rare sight. And if realism is all that matters then where is the gangster with the hacking cough? The femme fatale gazing in horror at the blood in the sink? The sexy, left-bank dwelling intellectual paralysed with fear as his chest is X-rayed by a business-like radiologist and his mother cries in the waiting room?Is Britain ready for outdoor smoking bans? There is a part of me that thinks smoking is rebellious and cool, and a part of me will probably always feel that. I have seen Casablanca too many times, stared at too many moody fashion spreads and album covers, watched too many episodes of Mad Men (thank God Matthew Weiner gave Betty Draper lung cancer, after years’ worth of accusations that the smoking in the show was gratuitous). So if there’s any measure that prevents this cultural permission-giving building up in younger film-goers, I’m all for it, despite the inherent contradiction in the fact that America in particular does not take bloody violence, scenes of rape and alcohol and drug abuse as seriously as it does nudity, and maybe soon will take scenes of smoking.No one on the BBC seems to smoke much any more, with the exception of Dot Cotton, who continues to chain it in her kitchen. Sometimes, you’ll be watching one of its reality TV shows and you’ll notice someone who quite obviously is holding a fag just out of shot. The BBC’s twisting of the truth is amusing, but what choice does it have? It’s not so much about replacing real life with a “sanitised smoke-free world”, as Simon Clark, director of Forest, has argued. (Forest, incidentally, is a smokers’ rights group. Can you imagine such a pigheaded, reactionary thing and not cringe?) It’s about trying to save as many lives as possible, and balancing out the tobacco lobby’s nefarious attempts to promote smoking with some significant counter-pressure.And if, in doing so, it helps some other young person realise the truth – that smoking is emphatically dull and (sorry if this bores you) might, indeed probably will, be the thing that kills you – then that can’t be anything other than a good thing.