Christopher “Kit” Harington, 29, was born in Acton, west London and from the age of 11 brought up in Worcestershire, his father a businessman and his mother a sometime playwright who named him after Christopher “Kit” Marlow. Although his uncle is the 14th Baronet Harington, Kit was state educated. While at drama school, he was cast in the National Theatre’s revival of War Horse, then in Laura Wade’s Posh at the Royal Court. From 2012, he starred as gloomy, illegitimate antihero Jon Snow in HBO’s Game of Thrones, until Snow’s surprising (and disputed) death last year. Next month, he plays Christopher Marlowe’s Doctor Faustus at London’s Duke of York’s theatre.So you’re returning to the stage… It feels a bit grand to talk in those terms because I’d only just entered the stage at the beginning of my career when I left it. But I’ve wanted to come back for the last two years. I’d go and see friends in productions and have intense jealousy.What did you miss? In film and TV you work and prep in isolation. You have a sense of company, but that company is fractured. It comes together and moves away, whereas in theatre you spend five weeks with the same people, really creating something together. That’s what I missed. And the applause, I guess (laughs).Game of Thrones: Jon Snow is back, so get set for a wild season six Why Faustus? Aching to do a play by your namesake? I had never read or seen the original play, and here the “difficult middle section” has been replaced by a contemporary retelling by Colin Teevan where Faustus is a modern stage magician in the vein of David Blaine or Copperfield. About 25 pages in we walk into a completely modern play. It really works. My first line is: “They love me, they really fucking love me.”Game of Thrones must have been great preparation for that. At first, I thought this [Faustus] was going to be about selling yourself for fame, but actually it is about a man completely trapped in his own head. I’m not sure how much I can say…Again, thanks to GoT, that’s the story of your life. It really is…So, is Jon Snow really dead? He’s featured on the posters of season six... I’m really dead. I’m not coming back. I’ve got a film lined up straight after this [Faustus] with Xavier Dolan, The Death and Life of John F Donovan. I’m playing a young TV star about to break into movies, who is very troubled and finds himself wrapped up in scandal, and is unfairly set upon. It’s about his descent.Another dark role.I like doing anguish, deep depression and darkness. I don’t know why, maybe that’s who I am. Nothing interests me less than doing a romantic comedy. When I have kids I want them to go to state school Was it a relief or a regret to leave GoT?Thrones is an amazing thing, and is going to continue to be incredible – so it is a loss not being there, in the circus. It has had an amazing impact on my life. I wouldn’t be in this, or getting a lot of the offers I have, were it not for Thrones.And you met your girlfriend on set too. Yeah, it was a lovely thing: me and Rose [Leslie] met in season two. Ygritte’s death on set was very emotional: I was losing my very best friend and girlfriend on the show and I was coming back next year. The character was in loss and so was I.What’s worse: people assuming you are from a theatrical family or that you’re another posh actor? Mum was a playwright with some success, but I’m not from a dynasty. I didn’t know anybody in the industry when I came into it. The posh thing I find very uncomfortable. My family were not rich, I am a state school boy, and when I have kids I want them to go to state school. But the private schools have got it right. They have pumped money and resources into their drama departments. Considering how successful this country is at exporting set designers, makeup and hair people, directors, actors, producers, I am surprised that is not reflected in our state education.Where do you see yourself in 10 years’ time? I’m greedy, I’d love to play Prince Hal in Henry IV parts one and two, then Henry V, to do film, and I’d love to go back into a top-quality TV show, because that’s where storytelling is at its most exciting and dangerous at the moment. Also, I’ve written three TV shows with my best friend Dan West, two of which we have sold, so I would like to see myself producing. I met Dan at drama school – we live together and write together. It’s like a sexless marriage. Doctor Faustus is at the Duke of York’s, London from 9 April