St Louis’s rap scene has become one of the most interesting in the US over the last decade. In 2000, Nelly’s Country Grammar laid the groundwork, and he was followed by top sellers Chingy and J-Kwon. By 2004 the local hip-hop landscape was so hot that the New Yorker extolled it in a feature profile, comparing it to Motown in the 1960s.These days, however, things are different. St Louis has a whole new crop of young rappers, and they’re as talented as ever. But none have broken big nationally. There are many reasons why, but one is particularly disturbing: the promising ones keep getting killed.'We’re surrounded by murders': a day in St Louis’s most dangerous neighborhood At least five area rappers have been murdered in the past year or so. Violence, and the threat of violence, is so pervasive that emerging talents are sometimes moved out of town for their own safety. Much has been made of Chicago’s staggering murder rate, and its effect on the hip-hop community there, but the situation in St Louis is even worse. Earlier this year, the FBI ranked the city the most violent in the country. In 2015, approximately 188 people were killed there, the most since 1995.The current wave of rap-related violence kicked off last year with the murder of City Stylez, aka Lavell Boyd, a wiry, quick-spitting rising star whose most popular YouTube videos have hundreds of thousands of views. In the early evening on 9 September he was found dead in a BMW just north of the city, having been shot in the head, neck and arm. He left behind five children.City Stylez was a mentor to and collaborator with another rapper of great renown – Swagg Huncho, member of a group called 3 Problems, which had been receiving national attention, including in the Guardian. Locally, Huncho, a Ferguson resident, was a household name among young rap fans in the majority-black neighborhoods and high schools in North St Louis and St Louis County. He was shot in the head on 13 December 2015 in an area of the city called JeffVanderLou, a week shy of his 19th birthday.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest His memorial service, held shortly thereafter, was a standing-room-only affair, and one over which the threat of violence hung. Social media posts from a rogue group affiliated with the neighborhood where Swagg was murdered threatened that anyone who attended would be killed themselves. (Thankfully, it passed without incident.) After Swagg’s death, 3 Problems has kept on in his absence, and his group-mate, known as Lil Tay, continues to see his star rise. Meanwhile, the third member of the group, Relly Rell, is serving a ten-year sentence for second-degree murder. Another rapper affiliated with 3 Problems, Devin “YD” Bess, was fatally shot on 28 April 2016. According to police reports, Bess was dropped off at an area hospital, and then the car’s driver sped away. Why can’t these emerging hip-hop players escape violence? As everywhere, systemic issues like poverty and a lack of effective social services can’t be ignored. While St Louis’ unemployment sits near the national average, African American unemployment here is among the highest in the nation. The city and its northern suburbs are further hampered by a segregated, failing school system, and ineffective and prejudiced policing – the latter evidenced to many by the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson by a white officer in 2014. In St Louis, the dangerous lifestyles many rappers portray in their music often converge with their real lives. 3 Problems’ songs depict street violence and drug dealing, for example, and their vérité-style videos feature young men pointing firearms at the camera.  The city’s sound – a mix of Chicago drill and southern bounce – reflects its geography, and locally spawned producers like Chopsquad DJ, Cash Money AP, and Trillion Billion Dollar Beats provide the St Louis spitters gritty yet melodic beats. Though not many of the rappers here have gone national in recent years – and traditional label structures and album releases are uncommon – some have found success within the city itself, performing at halls such as the Ambassador and smaller clubs downtown, and filming widely watched YouTube videos. Successful artists are able to charge hundreds or thousands of dollars for guest verses on new artists’ songs. Some observers believe that the rappers’ success and improving financial prospects make them targets. “Anyone who has a little shine, or even a nice watch, could be killed,” said Kosta Longmire, member of a St Louis rap act called Gold Heart Family. Of course, the circumstances behind each murder vary, and most remain unsolved by police. There is no doubt, however, that they hamper the development of the St Louis scene. “The street shit bleeds into the business,” a rapper named Lil St Louis told me. He’s 30, and something of a bridge between the last generation of successful rappers including Nelly and Chingy, with whom he’s collaborated, and the younger generation. His facial tattoos include the St Louis Cardinals’ logo on his right cheek bone, and three teardrops next to his left eye. Originally from the St Louis suburb University City, he’s toured with big name acts like 2 Chainz, and has carved out a successful career. But despite his accolades he’s constantly worried about violence catching up with him.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lil St Louis: ‘The street shit bleeds into the business.’ Photograph: Youtube“People have been killed for a lot less than what I done,” he said. He added that he ran wild in the streets when he was younger, but that the birth of his four-year-old boy and his baby girl made him re-evaluate his life and focus seriously on his craft. He noted the 2009 murder of the rapper Tega – an affiliate of Nelly – and that of Lil St Louis’ friend Eazyy Duece, a rapper killed on 28 August this year in north St Louis.Despite the violence, Lil St Louis still believes it’s possible to make it big as a hip-hop performer here. He suggests young artists broaden their approach. “The previous generation, people like Nelly, knew they had to make a move to places like New York, and not just do everything from here,” he said. “It’s about relationships.”An impresario and talent manager named Slim Loose Cannon understands the violence of St Louis all too well. His cousin, an aspiring rapper named Lindell Browden, was killed on 20 October 2016. Meanwhile, for the past year Slim has been focused on sheltering his protégé, a 19-year-old talent called LA4SS who is signed to his label Loose Cannon Entertainment, and is probably the most talked-about rapper from St Louis. He has performed with luminaries including Lil Wayne and Birdman, and his video Get It In has nearly 1m YouTube views.Pronounced “LA Fours” – LA stands for his name “Lil Antonio” Harris, and 4 represents his geographical area of the city – LA4SS has been surrounded by violence for most of his life. He grew up near the intersection of Page and Union, where Eazyy Duece was killed. For more than a year now, Slim and others have believed that LA4SS could be next. “LA4SS is the guy everyone thought would be killed,” said Kosta Longmire, “even before Swagg Huncho and City Stylez.” On 8 October 2015 LA4SS’ brother – known as Fat Rat – was murdered in St Louis County. “That totally shut him down,” said Slim.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest And so, in the fall of 2015, Slim moved LA4SS temporarily out of the city – to Miami, where Slim lived part time as well. They shot a video, enjoyed the tropical air and focused on getting LA4SS’s mind off of the crisis in the streets at home. But there was no escaping. On 24 January 2016, LA4SS’ close friend – Dominick “Boosie” Chambly – was murdered, as part of a strange incident allegedly involving the theft of a hoverboard.Eventually LA4SS returned to St Louis for some court dates, and in April fled from police while driving Slim’s car. He was nabbed for resisting arrest and unlawful use of a weapon and remains in the county jail with no bail, awaiting trial. Despite these setbacks, Slim believes his young artist will emerge in early 2017 with new music, ready to return the St Louis scene to its former glory. “I was there through Chingy, Nelly, everybody,” says Slim. “There’s never been an organic force like this in the history of St Louis.”Indeed, even without major label talent-scouting, St Louis’ hip-hop scene remains vital and inspiring. Raw talent bubbles to the surface through a committed DIY mentality, one in which everyone knows they’re going to have to hustle and scrape to get by. But determination and will can only get you so far. If the tide isn’t stemmed against St Louis’ problems with guns, shootings, and poverty, the hip-hop scene might one day see the life choked out of it as well.