1 Notes On Blindness (U)  (Pete Middleton, James Spinney, 2016, UK) 90 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Loss of sight sounds like a non-starter for a movie, but this extraordinary documentary is an opening up of the senses as much as a closing off of them. Adapted from the audio diaries of theology professor John Hull, it gives form to his inner thoughts, fears and discoveries as he adapts to blindness in a way that’s intimate, reflective, moving and, occasionally, surreally wondrous.2 Queen Of Earth (15) (Alex Ross Perry, 2015, US) 89 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This expertly suspenseful drama comes on like an indie answer to Bergman’s Persona or Polanski’s Repulsion. The set-up is minimal: best frenemies Elisabeth Moss and Katherine Waterston retreat to a lakeside country house for some therapeutic “rest”, which rapidly develops into emotional scab-picking and psychological warfare. Sound and image are perfectly in tune with the captivating performances.3 Poor Cow (15) (Ken Loach, 1967, UK) 102 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Terence Stamp in Ken Loach’s 1967 film Poor CowKen Loach’s feature debut proves that his talents were there from the start. This story of a single mother (Carol White) and her criminal cohorts (chiefly Terence Stamp) is steeped in his trademark social conscience, but there’s a youthful, Nouvelle Vague-ish looseness to the execution, too.4 The Secret Life Of Pets (U)(Chris Renaud, Yarrow Cheney, 2016, US) 91 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Given that half the internet is cute animals doing dumb things, this animation has the family movie market sewn up. The story is Pixar-derivative (two pet dogs are ejected from their domestic comfort zone) but the makers of Despicable Me know how to craft a gag.5 Tale Of Tales (15) (Matteo Garrone, 2016, Ita/Fra/UK) 134 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If escapism is what you’re after, Garrone’s medieval phantasmagoria provides it in spades – plus extra satirical bite. It’s a collection of primal, unsweetened European fairytales, whose self-serving royals, downtrodden peasants and mythical monsters are in no way destined for happy ever afters.