 Sports day is looming! Are there any books which show why competing can be fun and also why it shouldn’t be taken too seriously?Messages about sports day can be confusing! Is taking part enough or does everyone have to be a winner? What do schools do about parents who are over eager for their child – or themselves when it comes to the parent’s race – to succeed? How can a teacher encourage the children to get involved without it being just another area of competition? How do you make the many losers feel good too? And what if it rains? Reading about sports day can certainly be helpful in giving children an idea of what it might be like – although no two sports days are ever the same! Tony Ross’s Little Princess, star of many titles, is far from a role model in most situations and, as a princess, she mostly expects to get what she wants which is not a useful thing to foster in the classroom! In The Little Princess: I Want to Win! the Little Princess finds that while she wins everything at home, because everyone lets her, she rarely achieves at school. But, through this, the Little Princess, who is much nicer than her status might lead you to think, learns that winning when you actual deserve to do so is a lot more fun. There is a good and different message in David McKee’s Elmer and the Stranger. Elmer the patchwork elephant is a kindly soul. Here he helps a visiting kangaroo calm his anxieties about the jumping competition that is to held in the jungle. While the kangaroo frets about whether jumping and bouncing are exactly the same thing, Elmer explains that both are perfectly acceptable for the competition. Elmer himself lacks a killer instinct when it comes to competing; his wise counsel is just what is needed on sports day. Kes Gray talks about his Daisy books - children's book podcast Kes Grey casts a clear eye over sports days and sums up the difficulties brilliantly in his realistic Daisy and the Trouble with Sports Day. Of course Daisy is determined to win her race. And so is her friend Gabby. Daisy’s preparations include serious training – including some curious special eating – but, what Daisy learns is that winning is hard - “especially if there are other people in the race.” Daisy has useful advice on how to win, especially in the egg and spoon race, and Kes Grey sums up the problems of pushy parents! One person no school would particularly want at their sports day is Horrid Henry who, as may be predicted, both hates sports day and has his own very special way of winning his most hared event, the cross-country run, in Horrid Henry’s Sports Day. Horrid Henry’s attitude to sports day is not entirely unknown in real classrooms although most can disguise their cunning ways of cheating better. The anger that losing a race can engender is well-captured in Michael Morpurgo’s Who’s a Big Bully Then? a story in which a row over a race between the school bully and a “little git” leads to a challenging game of chicken which has a very satisfying outcome. But the oldest story about sports day, and the one that all children should know for that occasion but also for many others, is Aesop’s famous The Hare and the Tortoise. The message its heart “Slow and steady wins the race” may not be very helpful for those desperate to win on sports day but it may help them understand something about the nature of completion. Michael Morpurgo retells it finely in The Orchard Book of Aesop’s Fables with stunning illustrations by Emma Chichester Clark while Brian Wildsmith’s picture book version, with only the briefest of texts, brings the story to life through his wonderful illustrations.If you have books to recommend on the subject of sports day then tell us on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com so we can add to this blog. You can also use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.