“I electrocuted myself last night,” Lisa Dwan says. She’s laughing, so I laugh too, thinking it’s a metaphor for one of Dwan’s famously self-punishing techniques – this is an actor, after all, who tied her own head to a banister while giving one of her acclaimed one-woman Beckett plays an early run-through at home. She has bled on stages around the world, such were the physical demands of her blindfolded, harnessed version of Beckett’s Not I, which she retired earlier this year. Now she’s preparing for the Old Vic’s world premiere of her newest Beckett work, No’s Knife, adapted by Dwan from his prose pieces Texts for Nothing, and the rehearsal process, she says, has been gruelling. But the electrocution was accidental, and decidedly non-metaphorical; a power surge in her London flat – thanks to a building site across the street – and a trip to the hospital. “When I complained to the builders,” she says, “they thought I was a blonde actress and told me to change the bulbs.”Dwan is a blonde actress, actually. She’s been a blonde actress since her childhood in the Irish midlands, “this tiny dot of a little kid with the huge eyes and the hair, heading down the Roscommon road wearing my father’s tie. Just trying to find an identity. Just various different things we try on.” She tried ballet on as a child, too; at 12, she danced with Rudolf Nureyev when he performed in Dublin. She left her Irish convent school for a Yorkshire ballet school two years later, an experience she describes as traumatic in plenty of ways but formative in others.By 19, she was in Dublin, hanging around a Beckett festival at the Gate theatre; an older actor told her about Not I, and how it drove performers mad, and she could not get it out of her mind. Years later, trying to break into theatre but only getting occasional TV roles (“You’re a TV actress,” she was told, and she is unclear to this day what that was code for), she was sent the Beckett monologue and her life changed. Not immediately – her immediate response was to try to get her academic brother on the phone to ask him to explain it to her. But she couldn’t reach him, and she had to face the script. What she found in it was the sound of her own anxious mind.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Samuel Beckett’s Not I: Lisa Dwan mouths off“I went through it and I thought, that sounds like the nuns. That sounds like the girl who bullied me. And we don’t know why certain things scald, but they shape us.” Her wounds – not just from the nuns and the schoolyard bullies, but from things that happened later in life, things she keeps private but uses in her work every day – are what Dwan presses on, hard, to bring the Beckett pieces into being. She “offers” them, she says, in an almost religious phrasing. And then, more prosaically: “I’m fucked if I start to try to entertain an audience,” she says. “Where the magic happens is where it does cost me a bit. Where I wrap my own real wounds, and things that I know in my cells, around Beckett’s taut tempo. And if I make a moment resonate, it’s because a wound still fucking hurts. Because it’s unresolved.”The blonde thing hurts; the assumption that because she looks a certain way, she can’t possibly create a certain kind of work. Perhaps this was what was behind the “TV actress” comment when she wanted only to make theatre. When she began not just making theatre but making Beckett – in 2009, she produced Not I herself for the Southbank Centre, and from 2013 to 2016, Walter Asmus directed her in a hugely successful Beckett trilogy which joined that work with Footfalls and Rockaby – the digs did not go away. “The problem with you, Lisa,” one director told her, “is that your voice doesn’t match your face.”“I’ve constantly been told to modify myself,” she says. “That I’m too much a force of nature. ‘Lisa, could you just come across as a bit more humble, or just play yourself down a bit?’” In No’s Knife, which Dwan will perform near-naked on a stage intended to evoke both an Irish bogland and a battlefield, there can be no possible playing down. Put together, the texts she has chosen and adapted from Beckett’s original 13 are a visceral, haunted and quite devastating dive into the sedimented depths of human consciousness and the tortures inflicted upon it both from within and without: “I am down in the hole the centuries have dug,” the speaker says, “centuries of filthy weather, flat on my face on the dark earth sodden with the creeping saffron waters it slowly drinks.” She is mocked by voices: “All you had to do was stay at home.” “What possessed you to come?” She knows the burden of her body, the “cluther of limbs and organs”, but she cannot separate it from her head, for then “it’s I would have to cease”. And, “What possessed you to come?” a voice demands again.The woman’s body, its freedoms snatched and dictated by forces outside itself, “the same old stranger … for whom alone accusative I exist”: it’s impossible, I suggest to Dwan, to encounter her adaptation and not think of the battle for abortion rights which is currently being fought in our home country. “Of course it’s political,” she says. “But you have to give the audience the space to find their own wounds. If I’m only talking about the disenfranchised women of the world, what about the men who feel that their identities are curtailed? What about the immigrants who don’t feel welcome in this country? The other day, as an exercise, I did the whole thing in a Nigel Farage accent. Like a little creepy crawly it ventures out an instant, then goes back in again, the things one has to listen to, I say it as I hear it. But the danger about overtly politicising Beckett is that you ruin all the connotations that other people might draw from him. He made these wounds universal.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lisa Dwan inFootfalls by Samuel Beckett. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianStill, Dwan refers to her speaker as “She”, and this is the first time these pieces have been performed by a woman. But then, even when Beckett isn’t writing explicitly for or about women, his roles offer a much more deep-reaching vision of identity than the usual audition sheets do. There are “three gears we’re allowed”, she says of female actors: “the girlfriend, the bitch and the bimbo. And we have to say our lines quickly, and not add nuance. I have a hard time playing these types of women. And if it’s corroding me, what does it do to young women looking for role models?”A year ago, this was one of the founding arguments of Waking the Feminists, the grassroots movement calling for gender equality in Irish theatre, which emerged after the Abbey theatre unveiled a programme consisting almost entirely of male playwrights. Dwan may have shared the hashtag and worn the badge, but she still harbours doubts that she knows set her apart from other supporters of the movement. Actually, they’re more than doubts. They’re fears. “Personally,” she says, “I’m a little frightened of women. The greatest misogynists I’ve ever known have been women. We haven’t got to this position because women haven’t been complicit in it. I don’t think we’ve really examined our own self-hatred, how we have internalised years of contempt and turned it on ourselves.”Yet internalised bias is a big part of what Waking the Feminists addressed from the start; “We are all at fault here”, Garry Hynes, artistic director of Druid Theatre Company, said in a letter to the Irish Times. “I don’t trust movements,” Dwan says firmly. “But we have to start looking at what we do to one another. It leaves a lot of women I know – or maybe I should just speak for myself – very lonely. I’m very lonely.”'She taught me that truth has a sound': Lisa Dwan on Billie Whitelaw She doesn’t seem it, of course. Lonely people often don’t. She seems social, a livewire, a brook brimming over with ideas and excitements. She has a full team to work with at the Old Vic, where she’s co-directing No’s Knife with Joe Murphy, and over the summer she brought them all to an Irish bog to see what she was talking about. But it’s not just the terrain she’s thinking of, when she sees this Beckett in a bog.“It’s the bog of our minds,” she says. “When I enter into a landscape like this, so vast and various and raw and real and elemental, I don’t feel like a human being, I don’t feel like an idea of a woman any more. I’m child, I’m mother, I’m bird, I’m eagle, I’m air, I’m weapon, I’m wound, I’m water. When I commune in that way, and let my identity stretch, I feel really fulfilled. It feels like a very true space, and I feel full. And I feel that everything I have is enough.”• No’s Knife, a selection of Samuel Beckett’s Texts for Nothing, conceived and performed by Lisa Dwan, is at the Old Vic, London SE1, from 29 September. oldvictheatre.com.