What made you want to write Kook, and why did you choose the genre you did?I’ve always written bits, but a couple of years back I enrolled on the Bath Spa MA in Writing for Young People. They taught me to dig deep; to find my voice, rather than copy what was out there. It seems so obvious, but I had to be shown how to “write what you know”. I’d experimented with all kinds of forms and material before then, but – surprise – it was the work that was closest to my own experiences that worked best. It had just never occurred to me that it could be worth writing about. I used to come out of the water and sit on the beach, dripping, notebook in one hand, pen in the other, tapping my chin, thinking: Now what can I write about? Errr...As for the genre: I’ve always wanted to be a writer for young people. I didn’t know how much until I started reading YA. I was gob-smacked by the sheer quality of the writing. As a writer I’m drawn to that time in our lives, too. YA speaks to years which are intense and fierce; where love burns bright and quick; where new experiences are urgent and all consuming. It makes for a head-spinning, vibrant writing experience that I really enjoy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Also, the style of YA writing suits me. For the audience, the story has to be gripping, the writing, clear and strong. You can’t mess about. It’s got be “all killer, no filler.” I like that. It’s what I write and it’s what I read, for YA or adult books.Were any of the characters influenced by you, or any of your personal experiences as a young person?Oh God, yes. I didn’t even mean for that to happen, but it did. The writing got hi-jacked by memories of days in the water, and also of first love. That said, real experiences and people, twisted and morphed, became something else, parts of a story. So it’s a real mix of things that happened to me, things I saw and a great deal that is totally made up. Partly based on me – but really changed too.Top 10 best surfing videos Clearly surfing is a passion, and your interest in the sport is evident throughout the novel – do you think you would incorporate this theme into any further books?I already am, in the follow up, Storms. However, it’s not so central. The surf aspect of Kook – while key – was secondary to exploring the characters, their story and the setting. Surfing is there in Storms but alongside a very dramatic whale rescue, the impact of heavy storms on a place and a community, and, of course, a love story at the heart. Only this time he’s a surfer and she definitely isn’t (!). So I’m exploring how the free-spirited, feckless surfer is an attraction but also a distraction for this girl. It’s about balancing selfishness and free-spiritedness with responsibility and real life. Something surfers have to deal with a lot. So surfing is there, but in a wider context.Who are your inspirations, both in terms of writing and surfing?Surfing-wise, it’s places such as Gwenvor in Cornwall, and Hossegor in France, and UK longboard champs like Sam Bleakley and Ben Skinner. But it’s the whole life really. Riding waves is part of it, but so is going to the beach, exploring, travelling, being with family and mates – doing something that’s an antidote to a life dominated by screen/work/stress.Lucy Christopher's top 10 literary woods On the writing – where do I start? David Almond, Kevin Brooks, Meg Rosoff, Nick Lake, Hemingway, Tim Winton to name a few. Also my tutors on the Bath Spa MA: Julia Green and Lucy Christopher. Lucy’s use of setting in Stolen inspired me. And Julia’s brilliant Cornish books (Breathing Underwater, Hunter’s Heart), gave me the confidence to write the setting, characters and story that became Kook.Another of your passions is animal conservation; what sparked your interest in this and in what ways do you help to improve their lives?I’ve always been drawn to wilderness and to the ocean. And if you love the natural world, it’s a logical step to try and prevent it being damaged.My interest in whales was sparked by the book Whale Nation, where the poet Heathcote Williams carefully and clinically illustrates the true horror of industrial whaling, and shows just how intelligent and worthy of our respect, whales and dolphins really are.I work part time for Whale and Dolphin Conservation. We focus on ending whaling, stopping captivity, creating marine protected areas, rights and ending bycatch (death in nets). We’ve had successes over the years (such as the recent decision to stop fin whale hunting in Iceland), but the state of the seas is getting worse, not better, and there is still so much to do, not just for whales and dolphins, but the whole ocean environment.I was impressed by the very expressive way in which you described the rave, as well as the palpable tension that occurs during the fight. Are you influenced by art or poetry in any way when creating your work?That’s a really great question, because I think people assume writers are only influenced by novels. But – for me at least – poems, art, film/TV (especially in terms of how dialogue works) and music all play their part. Music especially.The Chemical Brothers’ The Test video/song is a good example, as it really gets to being at a rave, and out of your depth.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to The Chemical Brothers, The Test.Also, when you’re writing about a rave, you’re describing an experience which is about music and lights and atmosphere and community and love, all at once – an all-round sensation and emotion overload. It’s hard to describe that in a straightforward manner, so I did it more expressively.I listen to a tonne of music when I write – both to “match” the tone of what I’m writing, and also to shut the world out, if I’m scribbling away in a café or on a train. I’m sure it influences how I write, though I couldn’t say exactly how.Did you set out to be a writer from a young age, or was it something that crept up on you?Kind of both. I always wanted to, but I never quite got round to it. Too busy surfing! I did bits and bobs, but never in any dedicated way. Then one morning – for no apparent reason – I just decided I was going to “do it”, meaning I was going to write every day, in my spare time. Then I just kept at it, because I loved it. I hoped to be published, but I never expected it.As an author new to the scene, what did you find to be the most difficult part of writing and publishing a novel?What are the best eco books for children and teens? The obvious answer is “getting an agent and then a publisher”. It’s really competitive out there! Not in spirit (writers are really supportive of each other), but in terms of the sheer numbers of submissions and getting yourself “noticed.”Less obviously, I didn’t realise that writing a couple of books and getting a heap of rejections is a very normal part of the path to actually being published. Writing a lot, producing stuff that isn’t good and getting nowhere is hard. But it is usual, and in any case the writing is a rewarding thing in its own right and makes you into the writer you become. Sorry if that seems contradictory, but it is difficult and normal and rewarding.As to the writing. It can flow easily, or be like swimming through treacle. The difficult thing is that you never know how it’s going to go.Have you begun planning or writing any new work since releasing Kook?Yes. The final edit happens quite a long time before publication, so I’ve been busy working on Storms. It’s a stand-alone novel, but set in the same place, time and even has some of the same characters as Kook. Again, I didn’t plan it that way necessarily, but one of the great things about writing is that it can make a mockery of what you “planned”.Thinking again of any further work, would you classify yourself solely as a novelist, or do other aspects of writing, such as poetry or short stories also interest you?Free read! Kook by Chris Vick Definitely. Both of those forms appeal, especially short stories. I really like the idea of a bunch of short, sea-based stories, on different characters, which fit together into one bigger tapestry. Poems and short stories are a hard form to get published, but I expect I’ll write short stories one day, even if only for my own pleasure.Chris Vick’s Kook is our current Teen book club read. Find out more here.