Kieran Hodgson: Lance, London & Southend-on-SeaThis one-man character comedy show about a young boy’s deep and abiding love of Lance Armstrong was one of the hottest tickets at last summer’s Edinburgh fringe. It might sound an unpromising topic but, night after night, Kieran Hodgson packed the punters into a small sweaty venue above a pub, with standing room only even for the industry movers and shakers. It’s easy to understand the enthusiasm, because Lance could well mark the arrival of a serious talent. Hodgson clearly takes a strong influence from Steve Coogan: his innate awkwardness, odd obsessions and constant misreadings of the world around him mean he often seems like Alan Partridge trapped in the body of a much younger man. But, while he shares Coogan’s ear for precise language and deft characterisation, he’s also got the ability to mine sensitivity and pathos, something that has taken the older man a lot of effort to acquire. His next move will be worth watching out for, because it seems as if Hodgson has got all the tools necessary to aim for greatness.Downstairs, Soho Theatre, W1, Sat; The Vaults, SE1, Wed; Palace Theatre, Southend-on-Sea, FriTony Law: Frillemorphesis, On tourWe often think of surreal comedy, as practised by Noel Fielding or Eddie Izzard, as essentially lighthearted: all non-sequiturs and whimsical, playful stuff that gives the audience a good time and remains free of anything resembling a dark side. Tony Law is certainly a surrealist – his freewheeling style is wonderfully devoid of structure and, frequently, sense – but he also delivers darkness in spades. In the space of a moment, he’ll switch from seemingly improvised and energetic silliness to glum introspection, speaking candidly to the audience about his personal problems and issues with alcohol. You get the feeling that his disordered onstage manner is partly an act, and partly the expression of a mind in a poor state of repair. Perhaps it’s voyeuristic to enjoy his comedy on those terms, but there’s a great deal of cathartic laughter to be had from a performer so willing to lay himself bare.West End Centre, Aldershot, Thu; Dalys Comedy Club, Omagh, Fri; touring to 11 MarTom Stade: You’re Welcome, On tourIt’s more than possible that Tom Stade was thrown out of his native Canada because the famously easy-going locals simply couldn’t tolerate his extraordinarily bleak style of humour. It’s his good fortune (and ours) that he chose instead to settle in Scotland; after all, the British find this kind of black-hearted misanthropy extremely appealing. Stade is a kind of debauched truth-teller: a comedian who has drunk and smoked so much that it’s given him access to a wisdom that is beyond mere ordinary mortals. But the message he brings back isn’t positive; instead, it’s a gospel of pure negativity. Don’t attend his latest tour if you’re easily offended by swearing, sexual imagery, grotesque attempts to offend or sheer bloody-minded nihilism. But if you’ve got a taste for the right kind of sick humour, you’ll find plenty to savour here.Beggars Theatre, Millom, Thu; The Lowry, Salford, Fri; touring to 28 May