The Secret Life Of Sue Townsend (Aged 68 3/4) 9pm, BBC2The sobriquet “national treasure” is dished out willy-nilly nowadays, but in the case of the late Sue Townsend, it is entirely justified. Julie Walters (perfect choice) narrates this loving profile of the brilliant writer and humorist; the very embodiment of the unsung, struggling artist who suddenly gets a break, most famously with that awkward, bemused and exceedingly British schoolboy. There’s a little bit of Adrian Mole in all of us. Ali Catterall Tipping Point: Lucky Stars 6pm, ITVA new series of Ben Shephard’s end-of-the-pier gameshow kicks off with a celebrity edition. This week’s wilfully random contestants include blue comedian Jimmy Carr, former world boxing champion David Haye and Sunderland’s own Charlotte Crosby from Geordie Shore. The winner will have to collect the most tokens in order to scoop a sturdy £20,000 for their chosen charity. For the losers, only ignominy awaits. Ben ArnoldMeet The Parents 7pm, ITVIn a format that sounds suspiciously like early 00s MTV favourite Date My Mom, this new Holly Willoughby-fronted dating show sees mums and dads put in charge of their childrens’ love lives. In the age of wall-to-wall hook-up apps, perhaps it sounds a vaguely more civilised prospect, but in reality it simply opens the floodgates for plenty of the standard Take Me Out-style video packages, with the parents equally keen to enjoy their 15 minutes. Hannah J DaviesThe X Factor 8pm, ITVThis year’s X Factor is offering up a feast of pure craziness, which is no bad thing. In tonight’s dose of Saturday night fun, the remaining warblers sing again. While Simon Cowell tries to keep a straight face when he hears the words: “I say Honey, you say G”, fellow judges Sharon Osbourne and Nicole Scherzinger embrace the chair-frugging, wild-quipping nature of the beast. Louis, as ever, is pure Louis. Sunday night’s results show also promises big-name guests and one exit. Hannah VerdierBritain’s Ancient Tracks With Tony Robinson 8pm, Channel 4The feet of various pilgrims, traders, invaders and explorers have trodden their stories into Britain’s ground and mythology for millennia. In this debut of a new series following them, Tony Robinson volunteers to walk what might be Britain’s oldest road, the Icknield Way, which he follows through Norfolk and Cambridgeshire. It’s a compelling method of considering history: going where people went and seeking to figure out why. Andrew MuellerVice World Of Sports 9pm, VicelandAt this stage of its existence, most of the attention Viceland has attracted has been for how few people are watching it. On this evidence – Las Grandes Ligas, presented by Selema Masekela – more people should. It’s a beautifully made exploration of the island’s changing relationship with the US, explored via Cuba’s exuberant baseball culture, and reveals the astonishing risks that Cuban players have taken for a shot at the major leagues. Andrew MuellerMachine Impossible 6pm, National GeographicMax McMurdo is a self-styled “tech upcycler”. Mischa Pollock is a “gadget guru”. Together, they make TV shows so hyperactive that just watching them affords a sensation akin to having one espresso too many. It is, however, impossible to fault their enthusiasm for the possibilities of technology. Tonight, they’re assessing developments in travel and exploring the future of personal transport by building a one-person flying machine. Phil Harrison Film Choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A fast, flashy thriller … Bradley Cooper and Abbie Cornish in Limitless. Photograph: John BaerWuthering Heights(William Wyler, 1939), 8.45am, BBC2A wild romance concocted from Emily Brontë’s classic novel. Having finally stopped sulking over not getting Vivian Leigh as co-star, Laurence Olivier makes a tormented but heroic Heathcliff, and Merle Oberon is a touching Cathy. The real star is Gregg Toland, who won an Oscar for his atmospheric, gloomy-Yorkshire photography. Paul HowlettPaul(Greg Mottola, 2011), 9pm, E4Simon Pegg and Nick Frost make a fine pair of sci-fi nerds. They play Brits in San Diego for a convention and general UFO spotting, and guess what: they find an actual alien. Paul, who looks like ET, has the voice of Seth Rogen and eats live birds. With the feds after him, the three embark on a wacky, often funny, Winnebago tour of sci-fi movie cliches. PHLimitless(Neil Burger, 2011), 10pm, Channel 4Eddie Morra (Bradley Cooper) is a struggling writer going nowhere until he pops a brain-enhancement pill that enables him to finish his novel and become a master of the Wall Street universe. Told in the form of flashbacks from the top of a Manhattan skyscraper where Eddie’s on the verge of jumping, it’s a fast, flashy and violent thriller. PHLive SportPremier League Football: Chelsea v Leicester City 11.30am, Sky Sports 1The Champions continue their less-than-promising title defence. (Kick-off 12.30pm). Cycling: Road World Championships 2.30pm, BBC1The women’s road race. European Rugby: Northampton Saints v Montpellier 5pm, Sky Sports 2A Champions Cup clash from Franklin’s Gardens. 