The question I am most often asked about John Aubrey: My Own Life is how much of the book is him, and how much me? It is a good question and impossible to answer, except line by line.I decided to create a fictional diary for Aubrey, based on his own words. I did this because I wanted to make him present and vivid in our times. He was a 17th-century gentleman, antiquarian, bibliophile, collector and biographer, who deserves to be much better known and celebrated than he is today.John Aubrey by Ruth Scurr review – ‘one of the finest English prose writers there has ever been’ We owe to Aubrey most of the personal information we have about the luminaries of his time and previous generations. He gathered anecdotes about the philosopher Thomas Hobbes, the poet John Milton, the physician William Harvey – to name just three of the hundreds of lives Aubrey wrote – that would otherwise have been lost to what he called “the teeth of time”. Before he died in 1697, he donated his precious paper museum to the Ashmolean in Oxford, where it was kept safe until it was transferred to the Bodleian Library.Aubrey’s own biographical method concentrated on capturing the specific details about a person that make them distinctive – what their hair, face and voice were like – and the stories that were told by and about them. My challenge was to find a way of writing about Aubrey that would foreground his own personality and wit. I did not want him to be crowded out of his own life by his more illustrious friends and acquaintances.First I tried to write a conventional biography – cradle to grave – judiciously assembling all the information we have and telling the reader what to think about it. But that model did not suit Aubrey, who never told his own readers what to think about the lives he set down on paper. Aubrey saw himself as a curator, not a judge, of the details he was preserving for posterity. The future, he thought, could make up its own mind.The second problem with the conventional model was the gaps. There are days, months, even years, when we do not know where Aubrey was or what he was doing, still less what he was thinking or feeling. For the would-be omniscient biographer, gaps are an embarrassment. Sometimes they can be filled by lucky discoveries or eureka moments in the archive, but more often they need to be shuffled off the page. Aubrey was never afraid of gaps. His manuscripts are perforated with them: reminders to himself to look for information he has forgotten or never had, crossings-out and reworkings of the information he did have. But there are darker gaps too. Aubrey’s biographical collaborator Anthony Wood destroyed a large section of Aubrey’s lives after he was sent down from Oxford University for printing a story about the Earl of Clarendon that Aubrey had told him. We will never know exactly what was lost in Wood’s act of wanton destruction, only that it broke Aubrey’s heart.Next, I tried to write Aubrey’s life as a novel. He lived through the most dramatic period of English history – the civil war, Cromwell’s Protectorate, the Restoration, the Glorious Revolution. He witnessed the devastation of the Fire of London and the rebuilding of the city afterwards. He was an early member of the Royal Society and participated in some fascinating scientific experiments. But truth was so important to Aubrey that it seemed unnatural to start making up scenes and relationships for him.Instead, I wrote a first-person diary for him based on the evidence he left scattered through his manuscripts and letters. I collected the evidence and put it into chronological order; I modernised his words and spellings to make them more accessible; then I added words of my own, not to compete with his, but to support them. It was like restoring a portrait that had fallen into fragments. I built a discreet scaffold to display Aubrey’s flamboyance and bring him back to life. I like to think he would have approved of this new form of imaginative biography restrained by the facts and accepting of gaps – perhaps he would see it as the last of his many collaborations.ExtractAnno 1634, Easton PierseI was born about sun rising in my maternal grandfather’s bedchamber on 12 March 1626, St Gregory’s Day, very sickly, likely to die. I was christened before Morning Prayer. My father was nearly twenty-two years old, my mother only fifteen-and-a-half. She has cried through the night and given birth to three more babies since, but they have all died.My mother’s father, Isaac Lyte, is a man of the old time: he wears a doublet and hose and carries a dagger, as men did in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. He is a living history. We live with him at Easton Pierse, a hamlet in the parish of Kington St Michael, in the hundred of Malmesbury, in the county of Wiltshire.My grandfather tells me that our family sold the manor house and farm at Easton Pierse to the Snell family in 1575, the year before he was born. The house we live in now was built the year following, on the brow of the hill, above the brook, facing south-east. It has a great hall and parlour and a tall, carved chimney stack. In the parlour chimney is carved: “TL 1576”, my great-grandfather Thomas Lyte’s initials and the year our house was built. On the chimney in my grandfather’s chamber, where I first drew breath, there are two escutcheons. The first for my grandfather: “Isaac Lyte natus 1576”. The second for my grandmother, Israel Lyte, whose family name before she married was Browne.…At home I am often alone. I watch the joiners, carpenters and stone-masons when they are hard at work rebuilding the manor house next door. Sometimes they give me scraps of their materials and lend me their tools. I fancy myself an engineer. I wish I lived near Bristol like my father’s mother. In a city I would be able to visit the watchmakers and locksmiths and learn their trades instead of learning grammar. I can understand grammar easily, but struggle to remember it. I like to dream. I like to think about the past.More about John Aubrey: My Own LifeSign up to our Bookmarks newsletter We open Scurr’s book expecting a biography and find instead an invented journal, which might well cause some apprehension. But doubts are quickly forgotten. We are immersed in Aubrey’s world, listening to his voice, learning from his wide sympathies, worrying with him, cringing for him, wanting terribly to make him get on and publish his work before someone steals it. Scurr’s judgment and scholarship in constructing Aubrey’s own account of events are so flawless that she allows us almost to forget that she is there. Formal inventiveness can be showy, but Scurr’s invention is of the most self-effacing kind. She wants us to hear Aubrey’s own voice, and no wonder: he is, as she says, “one of the finest English prose writers there has ever been”. – Alexandra HarrisRead the full review.Buy the bookJohn Aubrey: My Own Life is published by Vintage at £9.99 and is available at the Guardian bookshop at £7.99.