What was the name of Khan's ship?   Regula I    The Delta Flyer    SS Botany Bay    IKS Gorkon What is the name of the ritual Vulcans undergo to prove themselves purged of all emotion?   Kolinahr    Koon-ut-kal-if-ee    Kahs-wan    Kobiyashi Maru Where would one be most likely to find Lt. Commander Scott on a pub crawl?   Edinburgh    Aberdeen    Glasgow    Balmoral Castle What is the name of the frozen Klingon prison planet from Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country?   Delta Vega    Ceti Alpha VI    Ice-9    Rura Penthe What brand of beer do Captain Kirk and Gillian drink at the pizza parlor in Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home?   Budweiser    Michelob    Miller Lite    Coors Lite Who was the Captain of the USS Kelvin?    Captain Richard Robau    Captain Mackenzie Calhoun    Larskene, The Silver    Captain Rachael Garrett What species is Keenser?   Gorn    Andorian    Tzenkethi    Roylan What is the name of the ancient Vulcan process used to restore Spock's consciousness in Star Trek III: The Search For Spock?   Fal-Tor-Pan    Gre'Thor    Ha'mara    Mikvah What is the name of the so-called Planet of Galactic Peace in the Neutral Zone?   Altair VI    Kaldra IV    Nimbus III    Cestus III Which classic rock band's music was playing when Zephram Cochrane broke the warp barrier?   Creedence Clearwater Revival    The Rolling Stones    Quicksilver Messenger Service    Steppenwolf When V'Ger sends the Ilia Probe back to the Enterprise, where is she discovered?   Near the warp core    In a sonic shower    Sickbay    Kirk's ready room What drink does Dr. McCoy order at the bar in before trying to charter a flight to the Genesis Planet?   Altair Water    Aldeberan Whiskey    Saurian Brandy    Pan-Galactic Gargle Blaster What is the name of the Admiral who agrees that Kirk can demote Decker to XO?   Nechayev    Nogura    Pike    April Malcolm McDowell, whose Dr. Soran killed Captain Kirk in Star Trek: Generations, is the uncle of which Trek alum?   Jolene Blalock    Alice Eve    Deep Roy    Alexander Siddig Where in the neutral zone was the Kobayashi Maru when Mister Saavik attempted rescue?   Gamma Hydra, Section 10    Beta Delta, Section 5    Theta Delta Omicron 5    Altair VI, Section Epsilon What's this guy's name?   Kor    Brunt    0718    Delta What date does this take place?   March 15, 2063    April 5, 2063    November 17, 2063    December 8, 2063 What is that thing around Captain Kirk's waist called?   Combelt    Tri-emitter    Perscan device    Bio-belt Where does this guy work?   Plexicorp    Metalworx Solutions    Imperial Alloy of San Francisco    Chemetals, Inc. Before Kirk, Spock and Bones settle on “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” some other songs are suggested. Which of the following is not one of them?   Camptown Races    Lakes of Altair Prime    Pack Up Your Troubles    Moon Over Rigel VII You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers