It’s won rave reviews. It’s managed to please fans of the source material while also wooing newcomers – the Koboyashi Maru of balancing acts. It’s meta. Clever. Bizarrely, it also assumes a speck of intelligence in its audience. It’s violent. Crude. Profane. It’s has actual pegging in it. And, despite all of this, it’s smashed all box office records for an R-rated film. Deadpool has, by all accounts, been a huge success: $300m taken in its first week on a comparatively modest $58m budget (the flabby, loud and much less enjoyable Avengers: Age of Ultron cost almost five times that). These are good numbers, however you look at them. There’s clearly a market at the more adult end of the comic book world. A lucrative one. And, inevitably, Hollywood has already sat up and taken notice.In the wake of Deadpool’s success despite an R-rating (previously regarded as a financial death sentence for a comic book movie), it’s been announced that Hugh Jackman’s last hurrah as hirsute fistyclaws Wolverine is likely to be given the “hard R” fans have been waiting for since 2000’s original X-Men. Then Todd McFarlane announced his not-exactly-much-awaited Spawn reboot would aim for the same rating. In predictable, route-one fashion, Hollywood wants to cash in on a zeitgeist, without (as Guardian of the Galaxy director James Gunn noted in a well-argued Facebook post) really understanding it. Basically, what this means is: put a colander on your head, adopt the brace position, and prepare yourself for an onslaught of sub-par, R-rated comic book movies.When Avatar’s stereoscopic splendour swept the globe, studios noticed the swollen teat of a cash cow, and cash cows in Hollywood seldom go unmilked. Remember Clash of the Titans? Alice in Wonderland? Both hastily retrofitted into the third dimension to capitalise on the newfangled clamour for 3D, as were numerous and equally forgettable others. When The Woman in Black took $128m worldwide in 2012 on a budget of around three dollars, buoyed by its inclusive PG-13 rating, a new, exploitable niche of bloodless horror was born. The same happened with found footage. Similarly, Christopher Nolan’s Batman films spawned a cavalcade of sullen, po-faced superheroes – Superman, we’re looking at you, you miserable, underpant-misunderstanding idiot. Deadpool: the pansexual superhero who has never had a non-heterosexual experience Trends all begin with one huge success, and today that success is Deadpool. You can almost hear the Dawn of Justice and Suicide Squad cutting room floors being minutely swept for an excised F-bomb, stray nipple or non-PG-13-friendly punch in the neck that can be reinserted now that R-ratings are all the rage. “Giving the fans what they want,” is what they’ll say.Every superhero movie currently in production will now be subject to the “R-rating” discussion. It’s probably too late for Channing Tatum’s Gambit and Benedict Cumberbatch’s Doctor Strange (due out in October and November, respectively). But there’s still Wonder Woman, the new new Spider-Man, Bloodshot, The Justice League, Aquaman – the list of upcoming comic book adaptations is huge. The studios behind all of them will now be having a very serious think about whether to take a punt on an R-rating to hoover up those Deadpool fans aghast at the lack of boobs or swearing in the next X-Men.But, as with previous trends like 3D, the immediate followers are likely to, as Gunn noted, miss the point entirely, not realising people have taken so keenly to Deadpool because it’s different, smart and self-aware, not because of the staccato deployment of dick jokes and exploding heads.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A further problem is that comic book movies, like an overexcited dog released into a cornfield, rarely know what to do with the freedom an R-rating allows. A free pass for violence usually ends up in drearily brutal torture scenes (Kick-Ass, Blade, Dredd, Netflix’s Daredevil, The Punisher); the ability to show sex inexorably in dodgy gender representations and rape (Sin City – either of them – and 300). The constraints of a PG-13 necessitate discipline and – with the need for suggestion as opposed to bald demonstration – preclude any kind of overindulgence. Plus, what about the millions of young fans who will now be prevented from seeing a movie because it’s been bumped-up to an R to give it a prefabricated “edge”? They’re the ones who’ll be missing out.Deadpool wasn’t the first R-rated comic book hit – Blade did solid numbers back in the late 90s. Fans don’t flock to comic book movies with graphic violence, otherwise we’d be on our third Punisher and Dredd sequels by now. If it was sex that sold, a smouldering Eva Green in 300: Rise Of An Empire and the Owlship bunk-up in Watchmen would have guaranteed both films a worldwide gross of a hundred billion dollars each. It didn’t. The former took a middling $337m, the latter an unremarkable-for-its-budget $185m. Personally, I’m looking forward to an R-rated Wolverine, as seeing him slice through hundreds of goons for 16 years without a single drop of claret being spilled has become faintly stupid. And maybe Spawn will finally get the nasty, nihilistic adaptation it deserves. But the copycats are coming, and if previous cinematic trends are any indication, a lot of them are going to stink to high heaven.At least we know three things. One: after James Gunn’s comments, it’s safe to assume Guardians of the Galaxy 2 will definitely be PG-13. Two: the Deadpool sequel definitely won’t. And three: we’re probably still never going to get that Dredd sequel are we? Dammit.