I’m so glad I got to read this book. It was wonderful and eye opening, and I learnt many lessons myself whilst reading it. The whole idea and storyline are absolutely phenomenal, which are what make the book so intriguing. There were times during the day that I tried to predict what happens next because I was so excited to carry on reading the book. It flows so well, and is not a book you have to force yourself to read, you just want to read it.Parker was brilliant. She didn’t complain about being blind and say how much she wished she was able to see, she just got on with it. In fact, if anyone was to comment on her being blind without it being a joke that she could just laugh along with, she would just say something so sassy, clever and smooth that it was incredibly amusing to read and witness.There are no useless characters either. Each character has a certain role and as soon as a new character is introduced you want to know more about them and read more about them – instead of wanting to skip over those parts to read the bits with your favourite character. In this book, every character has certain traits that you can relate to.This book is also brilliant as it makes you think. I started listing the friends that I would trust enough to listen to if I was blind, and the list was very short, so it makes Parker seem all the more superhero-like. I loved the slight love triangle and I enjoyed the ending, because it answered some of your questions whilst also leaving you with some unanswered.I’m so impressed with this book and how it managed to affect me, it is definitely one of my favourite reads of the year.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? A compelling story that flows beautifully, containing interesting and pivotal characters. Set in a relatable family backdrop, in which a blind teenage girl brings a fresh outlook to any reader.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!