Kendrick Lamar has won a Grammy for best rap album for To Pimp a Butterfly. The rapper is nominated in 11 categories for this year’s awards, and won two last year for i, which is featured on the album.To Pimp a Butterfly debuted at No 1 on the Billboard album chart and set a Spotify record for the most streams in one day: 9.6m. The album received almost unanimous critical acclaim, with a 96% approval score on Metacritic, and was named album of the year by many publications including the Guardian. Alexis Petridis wrote:  Just as Sly Stone’s decision to strip away his music’s bubbling, bright optimism perfectly caught the pessimism of 1971, To Pimp a Butterfly was the right album by the right artist at the right time. Broiling with post-Ferguson anger and despair – “You hate my people, your plan is to terminate my culture / You’re fucking evil” – complicated and claustrophobic, riddled with disquiet and self-doubt, desperate to work out what the answers might be but unable to come to any real conclusions, any meaningful reaction beyond a scream of horror.Kendrick Lamar: To Pimp a Butterfly review – challenging but gripping Musically, the album ranges from jazz in For Free to the dense ragga influences in The Blacker the Berry; while lyrically it explores the internal and external conflicts black Americans are subjected to; its title, which alludes to Harper Lee, suggests Lamar’s conflict between art and struggle. He told the Observer’s Dorian Lynskey: “It’s really about me trying to balance these worlds – where I used to be and where I am today – from all different angles. This album was therapy for me. I was looking at myself in the mirror and trying to figure out who I really am.”Kendrick Lamar: ‘I am Trayvon Martin. I’m all of these kids’ As well as being admired by critics, the record was admired by musical peers including David Bowie, who listened to it while recording Blackstar. In January Lamar also met President Obama, who the previous month had said that How Much a Dollar Cost was his favourite song of the year. Even more significantly, the song Alright became an unofficial anthem of the Black Lives Matter movement, its message of resilience chanted by protesters against police brutality in Cleveland, Ohio.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 