Hometown: Brooklyn.The lineup: Ivan Jackson (trumpet) and Conor Rayne (drums). The background: Whether you’re in the mood for commiseration or celebration, it could be that the music you feel like hearing at the moment is the euphoric, joyous, surging sound of horn-charged soul. Enter Brooklyn-based duo Brasstracks, who together create funked-up, jazzadelic R&B, produced with a blend of electronic sounds, samples and live playing, one that they call “future brass”. It’s big band goes bass with a hefty dose of hip-hop – think J Dilla let loose on the Earth, Wind & Fire back catalogue. Chances are you’ve already heard their work, perhaps through Chance the Rapper’s latest mixtape Coloring Book – Brasstracks produced the 2 Chainz and Lil Wayne team-up No Problem. They have also recently produced Anderson .Paak, and if you add up all their covers (Aaliyah’s Are You That Somebody, R Kelly’s Ignition), remixes (Gallant’s Weight in Gold, GoldLink’s Dance on Me) and originals, you’ll probably end up with a figure somewhere in the thousands. Not bad for a pair who only formed around 18 months ago at the Manhattan School of Music (notable alumni: Herbie Hancock and Harry Connick Jr) as “kind of an accident”. Jackson put himself in charge of brass and production, while Rayne’s role was inevitable (“He’s the best live session drummer I’ve ever heard,” according to Jackson). Their first track, the instrumental brass construction Say U Will, was the result of layering “a ton of horns” over some drum tracks, which they released using the first name that came to mind: Brasstracks.With brass, synths and drums as their building blocks, Brasstracks set about working on more music. The results include Good Love, which features a vocal from UK rapper Jay Prince, who teases out the melody with his lighthearted, near-comical flow and heightens the EQ (earworm quotient). It has the positive, gladdening feel of Native Tongues-era rap, although the inspiration came from a slightly later era: Jackson and Rayne had been listening to the Roots, Erykah Badu and D’Angelo in the run up to recording, admitting that they were “geeking out on how well-produced the music was while still maintaining such a live feel”. Elsewhere, Say U Won’t – a companion piece to Say U Will – is a successful fusion of popping electric bass, drum kicks, snare snaps, warm horns and synth arpeggios. Their newest track, Telling the Truth, sounds like it could be a Sam Sparro-style hit. Finally, Corduroy relocates Glen Miller to Slum Village, with its head-bobbing beat and sinus-clearing brass. Why that title? Jackson and Rayne wanted the music to feel “like a worn-in pair of corduroys … We hope this song takes listeners to an uplifting, feelgood place, no matter where they’re at”. Which, as we say, you might be needing right now. The buzz: “No one else on the planet makes this blend of music better than these guys,” say Indie Shuffle.The truth: You’ll love this brand of holy joy.Most likely to: Put you In the Mood. Least likely to: Fill you with doom. What to buy: The Good Love EP will be released in July. File next to: Earth, Wind & Fire, J Dilla, Slum Village, Glen Miller. Links: https://soundcloud.com/brasstracksOnes to watch: Haarm, Automagik, Kelsey Lu, Beginners, Sälen. 