I was once having a conversation with Matthew Bourne about the titles for dance shows. “So many choreographers use titles that seem like made-up words,” he told me. “I can’t tell one from the other.”I knew exactly what he meant. It reminded me of a scene from the excellent 2007 documentary Strictly Bolshoi, which followed Christopher Wheeldon creating his first work for the Russian ballet company. He’s under pressure from company management to give them a title. They ring up one of the film-makers’ wives to come up with ideas and Wheeldon jumps at one word on her list, misericord. “What’s a misericord?” someone asks. “It doesn’t matter, it’s a fabulous word,” he says, before revealing his magic formula for titles: “I call my dad. He’s named a lot of my ballets.”The opposite of this approach is the names created to meet publicity deadlines long before the work has even been made, thus sometimes having little relevance to the final show. But the most irksome is when the title is treated as an extension of the work itself, one that must be filled with the all the intellect, creativity and innovation of the choreography.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Zizi Strallen and Chris Trenfield in The Car Man by Matthew Bourne at Sadler’s Wells in 2015. A good title ‘gives people a way in’ says Bourne. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianSiobhan Davies’ recent Barbican show, material/rearranged/to/be, struck many of the sweet spots of a frustrating dance title: no capital letters, unnecessary punctuation and a name that was not immediately readable and had a concept of its own. A profusion of square brackets, mixed up cases and unpronounceability is par for the course in dance. Belgian choreographer Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui, for example, likes titles that look as if his finger has just slipped on the keyboard, as in Puz/zle, Babel(words) and m¡longa.Why does it matter? It’s the choreographer’s prerogative, of course, but in an art form that already feels distant and unreadable to some audiences, being wilfully abstruse in your labelling doesn’t exactly help. As Lyn Gardner noted recently, it can feel as though artists are attempting to prove their cleverness and exclusivity when jargon actually functions as a barrier rather than an invitation.It’s notable that Wheeldon has recently sidelined gnomic monikers for well-known titles, matching his move to making big family shows – Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, Cinderella, An American in Paris. Maybe he had a word with the wise and pragmatic Bourne. “You’re going to sell 80% of the tickets to people who’ve been before and the rest are going to book because of the title,” Bourne told me. “[A good title] sells more tickets, it literally does. And it gives people a way in. You can surprise them when they get there.”