The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Soul Central: Strings of Life (Danny Krivit re-edit)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As far as edits, re-edits and remixes go, I think this one is flawless. It’s pulled me out of many a tough crowd situation, so I will always keep it in the vault.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Booka Shade vs MANDY ft Laurie Anderson: O Superman (Audiofly remix)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’m very obsessed with Laurie and the original track, but this has been such a vibe in the club in the wee hours. The repetition in both this version and the OG gets me in all the right spots.The track that’s been unfairly slept on this year Super Drama: Drama Theme These guys are putting out some seriously vibey tunes. Drama Theme, however, is the stand-out for me.The track I wish I’d signed to my label Lizzy Mercier Descloux: Hard-Boiled Babe   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Because she was very cool – she was great pals with Patti Smith – and Hard-Boiled Babe was so ahead of its time. Lizzy was from Lyon and was definitely the romantic French archetype. What I understand of this track, she talks of moving to Hollywood and the sexualisation of female writers there at that time. It still blows my mind.The ideal festival track Coober Pedy University Band: Kookaburra   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Provided the festival was outside in the bush. This one is filled with cult-like chanting, some very cool percussion as well as some very vibey didgeridoo and – yep, you guessed it! – a kookaburra sample!The best track by my favourite new artist Nicola Cruz: Tzantza (Simple Symmetry remix)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s a weird one to play late when the crowd is in real party mode. I listen to this in my headphones so much.The track I’d play at my funeral The Trammps: Disco Inferno   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is pretty dark, but I always thought it would be funny if I was cremated and as they rolled the coffin off Disco Inferno was playing. If that doesn’t actually happen, I’ll be livid.Haai plays Phonox, SW9, 6 May