The editor of the Radio 4 drama the Archers has revealed that they had initially intended to kill off Rob Titchener, whose wife Helen was found not guilty of attempted murder after she stabbed him.The topic of domestic abuse was not a new one for the Archers, editor Sean O’Connor pointed out: the very first episode of the farming drama, broadcast in 1950, included Peggy leaving her abusive, alcoholic husband Jack. Millions of listeners tuned in on Sunday to the deliberations of the jury at Borchester crown court before the verdict was handed down. Listeners heard evidence during the five-day trial from the defence arguing that she acted in self-defence after months of mental and physical abuse and due to the need to protect her five-year-old son, Henry, who was present during the stabbing. The prosecution portrayed her as unstable and volatile.We’ve been looking at what readers have been saying about the trial verdict and how they felt the storyline was handled. Here’s what some of you said:‘This storyline has gone a long way to giving me the peace I desperately crave’   EllenCarey 12 September 2016 7:15amI suffered 10 years of similar abuse to Helen including rape and an unwanted child...I fought back and was accused of being the perpetrator...ultimately I found the courage to leave (with an incredible amount of support and patience from friends...I'm talking years!)...I chose not to pursue a prosecution in order to protect our children whom I now no longer see because my ex continued to control me through them...real life can be tough...but drama is redemptive...and this storyline has gone a long way to giving me the peace I desperately crave...‘I hope people start to treat the issue of mental abuse and manipulation more seriously in the future’   feliciafarrel 11 September 2016 10:14pmWell, it all ended up ok I guess, but frankly Helen was badly let down by some of the professionals, and I cringed to hear the prosecution expert evidence which was a bit close to home for me as being fairly typical of the suspicion that often surrounds these situations. At times it almost seemed like Helen was guilty unless proved innocent. The best thing about the whole story line is that it's brought the whole issue of mental abuse and manipulation to the fore, and I hope people start to treat it more seriously in future.Just one niggling doubt remains in my mind, and that is that if the roles had been reversed and Helen had been the abuser and Rob the abused, and if he, in a fit of desperation had stabbed her, would he now be free or serving a prison sentence? Mental abuse (as opposed to physical abuse where there is a clear gender bias towards men being the main offenders by far) is an area where I think we have to be very careful to treat the sexes equally in every way.‘I have found the storyline interesting and involving’   Pam Crane 12 September 2016 8:19amGood grief! How negative a lot of these comments are! I have found the story-line interesting and involving - and utterly unsurprised at the determination of the manipulative Rob to continue persecuting Helen. I too would have like to hear how the jury turned the verdict around - presumably the penny dropped when the foreman 'came out' as a Rob clone! I kept thinking of people I have known over the past 73 years, and how very close some have come to similar behaviour ... I'm glad so many women are being helped as a result of this drama. Sad that there will always be a small proportion of men (and women - I have personally known one) who have to have total control over others while pretending to love them, and make their lives a misery. To stay sane you have to free yourself from such abusive relationships, however difficult this is. They can end in tragedy.‘The storyline has been fascinating, gripping and nauseating’   AdamK 12 September 2016 9:37amMy partner was always the listener - I was more of a passive listener, with it on in the background.Until Rob Titchener came on the scene. The last two years have been fascinating, gripping, nauseating and quite horrific in the slow, intense way the writers have had Rob exerting his insidious influence on Helen. It's been nerve-wracking to listen to, and the violent climax took my breath away. The build up to the trial was well paced and last night was a tour-de-force, and I hung on every word.Sad to see people dismissing it out of hand and out of snobbery. This whole storyline has is frighteningly relevant and has been superbly handled.‘It has shone a light on a significant social issue’   crazey_janey 12 September 2016 10:41amI like many others I am not (was not?) a fan. However, I spend quite a bit of the time in the car and have been drawn into this plot by neglectfully not switching channels at the opening bars of that ridiculous theme music. Some of the details of this story lack credibility, such as Helen's non-defence, stretching over months and smack of faux dramatic tension; the crucible that was last nights jury room was laughable. Nevertheless, I think on balance it's been exciting, engaging and has shone a light on a significant social issue. I think the team let themselves down with their presentation of the trial (not just last nights episode). Those who think that the Archers has become to Eastenders are mistaken. I can't stand soaps but recognise that TV people do this sort of thing much more effectively. In fact I'd like to see Radio 4 import some TV talent, not to sex it up but because they can tell a better story. I might even keep listening.‘Perhaps this issue will now get the attention it deserves’   PDT1952 12 September 2016 9:35amI have a close personal friend who was the victim of domestic abuse who went on to run a refuge for abused women for many years. Although she could not discuss individual cases, what I did learn is how common this type of abuse is, how terrified the women who escaped their abusers were that they would be found.My friend who is not really an Archers fan was quite concerned that this storyline could set the cause of abused women back a long way if the verdict was "Guilty"There are complaints here about how far up the programme schedule of the Today programme this story was, well done Today! This is an issue that has long been avoided and like the whole Saville affair now it is more in the light, perhaps it will get the attention it deserves.I would think that Women's Aid are grateful for any media coverage of this issue.If their contention about the number of abused women out there is true, it is a sobering thought that there almost certainly will be both victims and perpetrators of abuse on this comment page.So yes it's not an Archer's story in a very narrow view of things, but if the programme had remained unchanged for the last 65 years, there would be people here saying that the Archers is an irrelevance and should be cancelled.As a final point I have male acquaintances who have been abused by women and that is an issue that receives absolutely no coverage, after all how many men would admit to that to their friends?