In compiling the list for this book, I had one rule: the music comes first. I resist the idea of expecting music to feed or prompt an emotional state, so I tried to turn the matter on its head. Why do I want to listen to a particular work at any given moment? What is the imperative? Beethoven’s “Hammerklavier” Sonata was the name of the first piece I wrote down. Soon I had a couple of hundred absolute dead certainties and a mild sense of panic.The categories – roughly speaking, an arc of life – came later, a broad, flexible and entirely interchangeable way of ordering choices. “Childhood, Youth” contains not only nursery pieces (there are one or two) but works that composers decided to call Opus 1, as well as a motet that dates from early in the life of western classical music itself. “Alive, Overflowing” is music that feels just that. “Unfinished” – well, I leave you to work that out too.To help narrow the field, I laid down a few guidelines: no operas, as they have their own narrative already (though one or two overtures have crept in). No song cycles for the same reason, though they too slipped in surreptitiously. Naturally the more rules I made, the more I broke, even concerning the title itself (why stop at 100? There are more if you count. The short round-ups discussing, or confessing, what I left out add a few hundred more).The finished list is a compendium of familiar and less well-known works, and by no means a final word. If I started again today the choices would inevitably be different. All the music is available online. There are images in the book too (eight of which are reproduced here), offering a separate, quiet tune alongside. If they suggest mood or atmosphere, so much the better. Some link directly to the content. They come from different sources. Many are vintage black-and-white postcards (obligingly my husband has a collection of 150,000 piled up, less obligingly, in the kitchen), anonymous figures from the past, their stories songs without words. Childhood, Youth Claude VivierLonely Child (1980)       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Playground Equipment for Ala Moana Park, Hawaii by Isamu Noguchi, 1939. Photograph: Isamu Noguchi Foundation“Not knowing my parents enabled me to create a magnificent dream world. I shaped my origins exactly as I wished,” the French-Canadian composer Claude Vivier (1948-83), not in any circles a household name, once said. Does it make a difference to know the circumstances in which music is written? In this case, yes. Vivier – born in Montreal, studying with Stockhausen then making his home in Paris – was abandoned at birth. Brought up by nuns in a children’s home before being adopted at three, he invested his music with a sense of ritual and chant. He could have been destined for the priesthood, had not his overt homosexuality ruled out that possibility. His music is sensual and atmospheric, using harmony as colour in the French “spectral” style and drawing on the sounds of temple bells he discovered on travels in Bali. At the age of 34, Vivier was murdered by a rent boy he had met earlier the same evening. Could he have had a premonition? The score he was working on, entitled Do You Believe in the Immortality of the Soul?, was a dramatised monologue about a journey on the metro in which the narrator is attracted to a young man. The music breaks off at the line: “Then he removed a dagger from his jacket and stabbed me through the heart.” Vivier’s life ended the same way. He called Lonely Child, in which a voice weaves ethereally around bells, gong and vibraphone, “a long song of solitude”. At the time of his death, he had begun a vain search for his birth mother.Land, Sea and SkyGustav Holst Egdon Heath (1928)Egdon Heath’s stark moorland existed only in Thomas Hardy’s imagination, a brooding presence in his novel The Return of the Native: “A place perfectly accordant with man’s nature – neither ghastly, hateful, nor ugly; neither common place, unmeaning, nor tame; but, like man, slighted and enduring; and withal singularly colossal and mysterious in its swarthy monotony!” Holst used these words to preface his 15-minute orchestral tone poem, an austere but radical work that expresses a pagan spirit of place. While Holst was working on the piece, he and Hardy had walked in rural Dorset, in southwest England, the region Hardy had brought so potently to fictional life. Holst considered Egdon Heath his greatest achievement. Vaughan Williams agreed, praising “the bleak grandeur of its outline”. They were in a minority. The premiere in New York took place on 12 February 1928, just weeks after Hardy’s death. Instead of celebrating this new orchestral work, the event took on a lugubrious memorial atmosphere. A Danish actor read the opening of The Return of the Native, according to a reviewer, in an “audibly fitful” way. The UK premiere the next day, which Holst conducted in Cheltenham, was well received, even though the critic of the Musical News and Herald sniffily remarked that Egdon Heath “illustrates the sentimental reaction” of large-town composers visiting the country. Not much of a crime. Since most of us now live in towns, Holst’s music offers a welcome fantasy exposure to the wilds from the safety of an urban postcode.Alive, OverflowingJohann Sebastian BachSinget dem Herrn ein neues Lied (BWV 225) (1724)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A separate, quiet tune’… a vintage postcard featuring ‘anonymous figures from the past, their stories songs without words’. Photograph: courtesy Tom PhillipsWith one joyous explosion after another, each dazzling and bright as a sequence of detonating fireworks, this double-choir motet launches as it means to go on: “Sing to the Lord a new song,” the psalmist demands, and “sing, sing, sing” rings out from different voices in effervescent, uplifting harmony and darting, virtuosic counterpoint. The texts are from Psalms 149 and 150, and invoke praise through dance, through timbrel, through harp. Bach wrote the motet as part of the Lutheran liturgy for New Year’s Day 1724, his first at the Thomaskirche, Leipzig. Years later, in 1789, it left an indelible impression on Mozart. He heard it in Bach’s church and was overwhelmed. According to a witness: “Hardly had the choir sung a few bars when Mozart sat up startled; a few measures more and he called out: ‘What is this?’… As it finished he cried out, full of joy, ‘Now there is something one can learn from!’” The conductor John Eliot Gardiner has described the final section, Lobet den Herrn in seinen Taten, as sounding as though, with voices alone, Bach had “dragooned all the Temple instruments of the Old Testament – the harps, psalteries and cymbals – into the service of praising the Lord, like some latter-day cuadro flamenco or big-band leader”. Bring it on.ChangeFlorence PriceSymphony in E minor (1933)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Obstacles spurred her on’: the composer Florence Price. Photograph: aetn.orgRacial prejudice, single motherhood, an abusive marriage and two divorces did nothing to deter Florence Price (1887-1953). If anything, these obstacles spurred her on. She made history. Born of mixed race in Little Rock, Arkansas, Price composed more than 300 works, many still unpublished. She gave her first concert aged four, and instead of following an expected career as church organist and music teacher set out to become a composer. After racial lynchings in Little Rock, Price moved with her young family to Chicago. It was the Depression. Her marriage ended. She played a cinema organ at silent movies to pay for food. Forced to take time off work in her mid-40s because of a broken leg, she wrote her Symphony in E minor. It was premiered by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra in June 1933, the first symphonic work by an African American woman to be played by an international ensemble. George Gershwin was in the audience at the 4,000-seat Auditorium theatre. Adlai Stevenson flew in from Washington DC. President Roosevelt sent a note of congratulations: “It comes at a time when the world needs nothing so much as a better mutual understanding of the peoples of the earth.” For a short time it seemed that Price might overcome discrimination. But back in Arkansas she attended a concert of her own music only to find a notice in the hall reading “seats reserved for whites”. Her music, a mix of European, southern and African American styles, is finding new support. Expect to hear more.Love, PassionJohannes Brahms Alto Rhapsody (1869)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Courtesy Tom Phillips.Brahms suffered many blows to his lonely heart, never finding redemption through love. His lifelong devotion to Clara Schumann, several years his senior and married to the composer Robert Schumann, never came to fruition even after she was widowed. For a time, Brahms turned his attentions instead to Robert and Clara’s daughter Julie, though not so that anyone would notice. News, in the summer of 1869, that Julie was to be married appears to have surprised him. Clara noted, “Johannes is quite altered, he seldom comes to the house and speaks only in monosyllables when he does come… Did he really love her? But he has never thought of marrying, and Julie has never had any inclination towards him.” Typically, Brahms spoke his feelings in the only way he could: through music. He called the Alto Rhapsody, for alto, male chorus and orchestra, his “bridal song”. Who but Brahms could have made a wedding gift in such autumnal hues? The melancholy text, from Goethe’s Harzreise im Winter (Winter Journey in the Harz Mountains), tells of a young man out of love with life. Its three parts conclude with a heavenly male chorus seeking consolation as a thirsty man yearns for water in the desert. “It is long since I remember being so moved by a depth of pain in words and music,” Clara wrote, as if full realisation had just dawned. “If only he would for once speak so tenderly.” He does, and now for ever, through the emotion of this Rhapsody.PauseLili BoulangerVieille prière bouddhique (1917)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘She was aware that her life would be brief’: Lili Boulanger, c1915. Photograph: Getty ImagesThis “Old Buddhist Prayer” for chorus, soloist and orchestra is one of the last flowerings of a talent severed it its prime. In her few short years, Lili Boulanger devoted herself chiefly to her compositions and to the pursuit of peace. “She was aware that her life would be brief, her time measured,” observed her sister Nadia Boulanger, the great French pedagogue, friend of Stravinsky, teacher of Copland, Bernstein, Messiaen, Pierre Boulez, Philip Glass and guru of countless more, who outlived her younger sibling by nearly six decades. Born in Paris in 1893, Lili died in 1918 aged 24. Despite the ravages of Crohn’s disease, she managed to win the coveted Prix de Rome, the first woman to take that honour. Her work – choral, orchestral, chamber – is distinctive, close to the world of Fauré and Debussy in its poetic, sensual nature. Her name has always been in my consciousness. While still at school, I took part in a masterclass at the Royal College of Music with Nadia Boulanger, then over 80. Shrouded head to toe in black, her English almost incomprehensible, her commands peremptory, she came from another era. As she barked her instructions, according to the sol-fa system with which I was unfamiliar, pointing at the piano, I can say quite truthfully I had no idea what I was supposed to do. The memory still evokes terror. I have often thought about the burden of love and pain Nadia carried through life following the loss of her brilliant younger sister.Journeys, ExileBéla BartókConcerto for Orchestra (1943)Béla Bartók was 59 when he sailed into New York in 1940 to escape Nazi-occupied Hungary. Homesickness never left him. Soon he told a friend, “My career as a composer is over.” Quiet, slight, frail, Bartók imagined returning to the tranquillity of home, away from the throng of Manhattan. He never did. He was already ill with leukaemia. He gave concerts as a pianist, but no one was interested in his own music. Two fellow Hungarian immigrants – the violinist Joseph Szigeti and the conductor Fritz Reiner – persuaded the great Russian conductor Serge Koussevitzky to commission him. The Concerto for Orchestra was the result. The opportunity to work again provided a temporary cure. Bartók laboured on this glittering masterpiece at the Adirondack Cottage sanatorium by Lake Saranac in upstate New York. It was premiered by the Boston Symphony Orchestra in 1944. The concerto starts in flickering darkness, with soft, shuddering low strings interrupted by a solitary flute melody. Snatches of European folk song, collected by Bartók himself, entwine themselves round the brightness of his New World music, ending in a bravura finale. Bartók died in 1945 soon after obtaining American citizenship. His funeral was attended by only 10 people, mostly Hungarians. In 1988, at the request of his sons, his remains were returned to Budapest for burial, his exile finally ended.Grief, Melancholy, ConsolationJohn Dowland“Flow My Tears” (Lachrymae) (1604)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Courtesy Tom Phillips.“Where night’s black bird her sad infamy sings, There let me live forlorn,” lamented John Dowland (1563-1626) in his best-known lute song, Flow My Tears. Opening on a falling phrase, then with an upward gasp before falling again and again, the notes themselves drop in squeezed harmonies like tears of anguish. The song grew out of his instrumental collection, Lachrymae, or Seaven Teares Figured in Seaven Passionate Pavans, a study of weeping from sad tears to those of joy and gladness. These lute pavans give full leash to grief. Dowland was a shadowy figure, a spy and a papist who thought little of leaving his wife and three children behind in England to earn large sums abroad. Rose Tremain’s novel Music and Silence, set in the Danish court of Christian IV where Dowland was a well-paid musician, depicts him tellingly: “The man was all ambition and hatred, yet his ayres were as delicate as rain.” An obsession with melancholy had swept through Renaissance Europe, epitomised by Shakespeare’s depressive Hamlet: “But I have that within which passeth show; These but the trappings and the suits of woe.” Richard Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy (1621) gave the subject full, forensic study. A treatise by Timothy Bright warned of the risks of a poor diet, counselling against plovers, sparrows, sodden wheat, porpoise, eel and salt fish. For Dowland, the tears “which Musick weeps” offer the greatest consolation.Time PassingElliott CarterDialogues II (2012)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Elliott Carter, centre, with Carol Archer at the Kaufmann Concert Hall in New York, 2011. Photograph: Richard Termine/NYTAt the age of 103, Elliott Carter (1908-2012) wrote a short piece – one of many in his centenarian years – for piano and chamber orchestra for his friend Daniel Barenboim’s birthday. How youthful Barenboim must have felt, to have reached his own three score years and 10 only to receive a gift from someone nearly half as old again. The last premiere in Carter’s lifetime, it was first performed on 25 October 2012 at La Scala, Milan, with Barenboim as soloist and Gustavo Dudamel, little more than a third the composer’s age, as conductor. Less than a fortnight later Carter died in New York, the city of his birth. Dialogues II opens with piano cascades spliced with brass, wind and string chords. Then a short toccata leads to a big dissonance promising crisis. Instead, after a few hammered notes and a throwaway flourish, it ends, snuffed out with a grin. Carter was lucky to escape many of the worst indignities of old age. His close friends Carol Archer and her husband, the cellist Fred Sherry, dedicatee of several Carter works, saw the composer daily in his last year. Before an operation to correct the composer’s heart arrhythmia, Carol recalls looking at the heart monitor with Carter: “After it was over, the doctor showed it to us again. Elliott turned to me and said: ‘Look! Before I was beating like Stravinsky, and now I’m beating like Bach!’” He was, of course, beating like Elliott Carter, one of the great musical voices of the 20th century, who defied the odds and spilled over into the 21st.And Yet... Unfinished WorksWolfgang Amadeus MozartRequiem (1791)Myth and intrigue surround the writing of Mozart’s Requiem: a mysterious visitor, an anonymous commission, an unsigned letter, the composer’s own fear – according to a report in a Salzburg newspaper published a month after his death – that he was working “with tears in his eyes” on what he believed would be his own requiem. So it proved. The Mass was far from complete when Mozart died, just after midnight on 5 December 1791, aged 35. Only the opening Requiem aeternam was fully finished. Much of the Kyrie, the Dies irae and other sections were nearly done, but the wonderful Lacrymosa ended after eight bars and large holes were left elsewhere. Rumours and counter-rumours flew, in part set in motion by Mozart’s wife Constanze for fear that payment would not be made if the work was known to be unfinished. All these tales furnished Peter Shaffer with a sinister ending to his play Amadeus. There is no doubt that other hands – chiefly those of Franz Xaver Süssmayr – completed the manuscript, a mix of reconstruction, reinvention, half-remembered conversation, error and guesswork. This poses an age-old problem. How closely do we associate a work of art we love with its maker? Should we stop listening the moment the Lacrymosa starts, knowing that what follows is not “fully authentic Mozart”? It has not troubled performers. There are at least 45 recordings. After trying them one by one, you might or might not reach a conclusion. The question dangles in perpetuity. The music holds us in its grip.Music for Life: 100 Works to Carry You Through by Fiona Maddocks is published by Faber & Faber, £12.99. Click here to buy it for £10.65Listen to a Spotify playlist for Music for Life by Fiona Maddocks.