Charlotte Rampling has clarified her controversial claim that the uproar over the lack of black Oscar nominees was “racist to white people”.In a statement to CBS News, Rampling, who is nominated in the best actress category, said: “I regret that my comments could have been misinterpreted.“I simply meant to say that in an ideal world every performance will be given equal opportunities for consideration. “Diversity in our industry is an important issue that needs to be addressed,” she said in a statement issued on Friday night. “I am highly encouraged by the changes announced today by the academy to diversify its membership.” On Friday, the academy pledged to double the number of female and minority members by 2020. Ignore Rampling and Caine. It's industry inertia that minorities need to fear In an interview with a French radio station on Friday, the actor, who is nominated for her role in 45 Years, had said: “We can never know if it was really the case, but perhaps the black actors did not deserve to be in the final straight.”Asked if the black community in the film industry felt like a minority, she replied: “No comment.” Her comments began trending on Twitter, where the hashtag #OscarSoWhite has been used to express anger following the release of the nominations. Many suggested that Rampling should “check her white privilege”.sarabrammall (@sarabrammall)Charlotte Rampling needs to learn how to check her privilege. "one can never know" #bullshit #OscarSoWhiteJanuary 23, 2016Nishanthi Ganegama (@NishanthiG)Shame Rampling is the most outspoken Brit on #OscarSoWhite debate. Fine actress & fine example of missing the point. https://t.co/Vd9t1XfvFFJanuary 22, 2016Polly Rothwell Burn (@pollyjburn)Charlotte Rampling needs to check her white privilege #OscarSoWhiteJanuary 23, 2016Rampling is up against Saoirse Ronan, Jennifer Lawrence, Cate Blanchett and Brie Larson. The actor echoed the former Oscar winner Sir Michael Caine, who told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Friday: “You can’t vote for an actor because he’s black. You can’t say: ‘I’m going to vote for him, he’s not very good, but he’s black, I’ll vote for him.’” Earlier in the day, he said that nominations should be based solely on performance.“You have to give a good performance and I’m sure people have. I saw Idris Elba [in Beasts Of No Nation]. Did he not get a nomination? I thought he was wonderful.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Oscar nominee Mark Ruffalo: US rife with ‘white privilege racism’