There’s too many people running around, too much bug-eyed panic, all the freak- out flavors of an ambush situation without any of the compensating murderous release. Fireworks crews to their left and right keep shooting off nasty little rockets that hiss and sizzle like RPGs. Portable sets of metal stairs lead up to the highest stage level, and the Bravos are placed at the tops of these stairways, one Bravo per. A narrow catwalk is all that separates them from the stage backdrop, and Billy is standing there, a step below catwalk level, when a magnificent female creature bombs through the backdrop, it is a louvered sort of opening she steps around as several handlers swarm in. One takes her microphone, another offers Evian, a third presents some sort of small, furry garment that the woman proceeds to pull over her head. Beyoncé. If Billy chooses he could reach out and touch her thigh. Her hair springs free of the pullover like a solar flare, and from Billy’s vantage point a foot below the catwalk she towers with a Rocky Mountain majesty. Up close her skin is the honeyed brown of apple butter, limned with a film of perspiration that holds the light. Michelle and Kelly have their own handlers farther down the catwalk. No one speaks. They are all business, these show people, as quiet and lethal as sniper teams. Beyoncé shoots her arms through the sleeves of the jacket, a cropped, off- shoulder sateen number with a fur-trimmed collar, and as she arranges herself inside the garment her eyes meet Billy’s. Excuse me, he wants to say, go on, go on, she’s so focused and fierce in the moment that he’s sorry to impinge even to this small extent. Carrying the show in front of forty million people makes her one of the top human beings on the planet, and what strength of nerve that must take, what freakish concentrations of soul and energy. She’s not even winded! A yogic mastery of the mind-body balance. She inhabits some far distant astral plane, yet her eyes do something when they meet his, for an instant he seems to register there. In that split second Billy searches for something in her look – not mercy, exactly, nothing so grand as compassion, maybe just a bare acknowledgment of their shared humanity, but she’s already turning, she takes the mike and one of the handlers is saying kick butt as she steps through the slot and disappears.Someone pushes Billy onto the catwalk, then pulls him up short of the opening. The noise out there is just tremendous. He looks to his right and sees more Bravos similarly positioned, and at this instant he wishes he was back at the war. At least there he basically knew what he was doing, he had his training for guidance and the entire goddamn country wasn’t watching to see if he’d fuck up, but this, this is all wing-and-a-prayer shit. Middle level a voice is yelling in his ear, turn left and look for the purple X. Abruptly the music gears down to a meat-grinding crawl, kah-thunka, kah-thunka, it is a trash compactor mulling over more than it can chew. On the lowest tier of the stage Destiny’s Child is standing in front of three Prairie View drummers, the girls have taken the sticks and are pounding out the beat with the flailing elbows and lunging stance of fashionable women trying to jack up a car. By the time Billy gets stiff-armed onto the stage he’s barely breathing. It’s like stepping into a sun-filled cumulus cloud, a dazzling, cottony glow all about your person and nothing but air beneath your feet. He moves right-oblique toward the center stairs and arrives, small miracle, in sequence with the other three Bravos and everyone is marching more or less in step. He hears a rushing in his head and not much else. Directly in front of the stage the Drill grunts are doing the overhead rifle toss with fixed bayonets, the fuck, they could kill themselves and wouldn’t that be the shit, stabbed through the eye on live TV with your own bayonet!Need me a soldjah, soldjah boy Where dey at, where dey atBilly is last in file, thus he ends up on the purple X closest to center stage. Right face, halt. The rest of the Bravos have somehow appeared on the bottom tier, Dime-Sykes-Mango-A-bort all in a row.Soldjah gonna be real fah me, Beyoncé sings against Michelle’s and Kelly’s bass-line chant,Soldjah gonna be real fah meYeah dey will, yeah dey willSoldjah gonna get chill fah meYeah dey will, yeah dey willThey are serenading the bottom-tier Bravos, slinking and spooning about on dainty cat feet, mewling minor-key trills of do-me angst. The entire stage has become a blowup of foreplay aerobics, rocket thrusting, shadow humping, knurling hips and ass, here on the second tier the dancers are twurking Bravo and not a damn thing you can do except stand at attention and get pole-danced in front of forty million people. It’s not right. Nobody said anything about this. What might be merely embarrassing in real life is made obscene and hostile by TV. Billy hates to think of his mother and sisters watching this, then one of the guys starts dancing a little too close, punking Billy with glide-by swivels and squats. Like I really wanna see your junk, fool! Billy gives him a look; the guy smirks and spins away. Then he comes back around, and Billy speaks with all the feeling he can jam through his teeth:Fuck off.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Cover design and illustration by Steve Attardo Photograph: PRThe guy laughs and he’s gone again. The beat quickens as a line of Prairie View drummers comes marching down the stairs, boom-Lacka- Lacka-Lacka boom-Lacka-Lacka-Lacka. The Drill grunts are doing the Queen Anne Salute while troupes of smiling dancers decorate the flanks with jazzy kung fu moves. Down on the bottom tier Sykes is weeping. For some reason Billy is not surprised, he only hopes it will be over before all the Bravos lose their minds. Destiny’s Child regroups at center stage as a gathering storm of lights and fireworks signals crescendo time. Sykes’s back is a heaving pantomime of sobs, yet he maintains strict attention, chin up, chest out, and he has never seemed so brave or dear to Billy as at this moment.I ain’t scared, I’m comin’ through,I ain’t scared, I ain’t scared,Big man can’t you handle this good love I’m offerin’ you?Far across the field the Cowboys cheerleaders have formed a kick line, and even at this distance, through the haze of sleet and fireworks smoke, Billy’s eyes go straight to Faison, his groan a mere drop in the ocean of sound. Destiny’s Child is mounting the stairs, pausing every few steps to throw sassy looks over their shoulders, T&A bait for the TV cameras. Billy doesn’t so much as twitch when they pause on his tier, a fulmination of animal heat roaring at his side. For as long as they pose he doesn’t move, but once they’re gone he raises his eyes to the sky, then lifts his face a few degrees to get the weather’s full effect. The sleet stings, but he doesn’t blink. He lets it come, the spray of ice like a billion needles showering down on him, then it’s like the sleet is dangling and Billy’s flying through it, zooming toward some unnamed but promising place. Everything else falls away and he’s happy, free, the sting in his eyes is all speed and upward motion. It feels like escape velocity. It feels like the future. He’s still standing here, rocketing toward the world to come, when Day taps him on the shoulder and says halftime is over.Ben Fountain won the National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction in 2013 for his novel Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk, a comic satire on American military adventurism, set on a single day just as the US was losing confidence in the Iraq war. The book is being turned into a movie, directed by Ang Lee, due for release in November.Ben Fountain will be covering the 2016 presidential race for the Guardian in a series of articles throughout the year.Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk is published in the US by Ecco, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers, and is published in the UK by Canongate Books.