 It has been 53 years since the famed three-man escape from Alcatraz, the outrageous endeavour immortalised in Clint Eastwood’s 1979 movie Escape from Alcatraz. All we know for sure is that inmates Frank Morris and brothers Clarence and John Anglin launched a raft made of raincoats from Alcatraz Island into San Francisco Bay – and that neither their bodies nor the raft were ever recovered. But new evidence floods to the fore in two upcoming documentaries, Surviving Alcatraz: Escaping the Rock and Alcatraz: Search for the Truth.For all the fog that surrounds that night, one thing beyond dispute is the enduring public fascination with prison escapes. An emphatic reminder of this came in 2015 with El Chapo’s escape from Mexico’s high-security Federal Social Readaptation Center No 1. Being a billionaire cartel boss, he was no stranger to notoriety – but most of us first heard of him because of his audacious breakout. The press around the world scrambled to get footage of his spectacular escape tunnel – 60ft deep and a mile long. El Chapo seemed intoxicated by the attention, submitting to an interview with Rolling Stone after personal intervention from Sean Penn. After all this grandstanding, his recapture was inevitable. Adulation clouded his judgement. Deep down, El Chapo just wanted to be the hero.But it’s the little-guy-against-the-institution narrative that really seduces. On Surviving Alcatraz: Escaping the Rock, three Dutch scientists try to solve the puzzle. Using a sophisticated 3D flow model of San Francisco Bay to replicate the weather conditions of that night in 1962, Rolf Hut, Olivier Hoes and Fedor Baart prove that the men had a sporting chance of avoiding slipping under the Golden Gate Bridge and out into the Pacific to certain death. “If they left between 2300 hours and midnight, there is a good chance they reached Horseshoe Bay, north of the Golden Gate,” says Baart.Computer simulations are all very well, but there’s nothing like putting yourself in peril in the name of science. “You can’t have paddling mice,” says Hut, on the limitations of animal experiments. So, the trio test their theory by building their own raft out of patched-together raincoats and personally rowing it across the waters around the prison in a bid to reach dry land. “It’s doable,” says Hut, as if to convince himself. “We might live!” Meanwhile, the Search for the Truth documentary looks at the shocking claims made by two nephews of the Anglin brothers. Ken and David Widner have documents including a photograph, which, they say, proves that Clarence and John were alive until at least 1975 – 13 years after the escape. Law enforcement are naturally interested in the evidence, but there is huge mistrust from the Anglin family after what they see as FBI harassment of their family in the years after the escape attempt. After a bit of horse-trading between the family and US marshals, their claims are investigated, uncovering an alarming secret history. Clarence and John’s brother Alfred was electrocuted on high-voltage power lines while escaping from Kilby Correctional Facility just a year after his brothers’ Alcatraz break. (The Widners refuse to believe the official version – they think Alfred died under interrogation.) Before he died, he told family members that he knew not only that the brothers had survived their prison break, but also their whereabouts. “They knew he knew where they were,” says David Widner, “and the family really believe they beat him to death trying to get him to tell them where those boys were.” As the marshals look into their claims, the Widners explore their own conspiracy theory.The long-abandoned, guano-caked island in San Francisco Bay remains as potent a symbol of incarceration as there is – and that heroic three-man crew breaking the impenetrable fortress to either freedom or death still resonates. Escaping the inescapable is mythical. It has been decades since it housed a prisoner, but somehow Alcatraz keeps on causing trouble. Surviving Alcatraz: Escaping the Rock is on Yesterday tonight at 9pm; Alcatraz: Search for the Truth is on History on Friday 19 February at 9pm.