I’d say it was all there in 1979’s I Wanna Be Your Lover, Prince’s first hit: the falsetto pout, the swivelling guitar riff, the effortless fusion of funk and pop, the teasing pause before the word “lover”… oh, and the request to “be your mother and your sister too”. It was clear this kid was no ordinary post-disco soul star.“Lover” was the start of a glorious decade, 10 years in which Prince Rogers Nelson took American pop by the scruff of the neck and shaped it to his own mercurial ends. The run of albums and tours from 1980’s Dirty Mind to 1987’s Sign o’ the Times, taking endless risks in their willingness to splice genres and cross the tracks, made Madonna and Michael Jackson look formulaic. For Prince was as much midwestern guitar hero as inner-city funkateer: part Jimi, part Sly, part Stevie Wonder – the latter another midwestern prodigy who proved you could do it all yourself: write, play, perform, produce and take control of your career.I’d just started writing for NME when pop critics on both sides of the Atlantic jumped on the radical X-rated reboot that was Dirty Mind. An album of what can only be described as lo-fi new-wave punk-funk, with a monochrome cover shot of Prince in a studded raincoat and pervy posing pouch, it was an irresistible black-rock mashup. It could have been a novelty act, a punk-funk one-off, but you listen to that record and realise he was totally in command of what he was doing – a superb songwriter, guitar player, producer. He could do it all, just like Wonder had done.Lucky enough to catch him playing its songs at New York’s Ritz early in 1981, I was instantly won over by his thrilling talent and androgynous swagger. It was like watching a black Marc Bolan with the moves of a modern-day James Brown. The jury was still out, though: in London that summer I saw him play the same set at a half-full Lyceum show, and wondered if people would ever “get” him or if he was doomed to be a passing novelty fad.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch thevideo for Prince’s first hit, 1979’s I Wanna Be Your LoverTwo years later my fears were laid to rest. NME put me on the road for three of Prince’s 1999 tour dates, climaxing in a homecoming triumph in Minneapolis. By now he was selling out sports arenas, packing them with not just black kids but white ones who’d seen the Little Red Corvette video on MTV. He was also displaying an almost Dylanesque disdain for media that would inform the remainder of his career: the best I got from him on the tour was a blank stare and a limp handshake. Within another 12 months – courtesy of Purple Rain, the album and the movie – he was the biggest star in America.I can’t say I loved everything Prince did in that synthetic decade – I wasn’t convinced by the flower-powered Around the World in a Day and thought Parade overrated – but his creative peaks, from When Doves Cry to Kiss, dwarfed anything else in mainstream American pop of the period. 1987’s Sign o’ the Times, meanwhile, proved he could master pretty much anything – funk and rock; power pop and Philly soul; smoochy jazz and apocalyptic electro – he chose to dabble in.The subsequent decade was an altogether unhappier one for Prince and for his fans. At war with his record company – and with his own name – he stuck out contract-fulfilling fodder like Come and Chaos and Disorder, apparently unconcerned that he was short-changing the people who bought them. (For me, his last truly exceptional track was Lovesexy’s Alphabet Street, which made a mockery of the Batman and Diamonds and Pearls albums – not to mention the abominable Sexy MF single, which rightly rose no higher than 66 in the top 100.) Freed from Warner Bros via his own badly mismanaged NPG sales channels, he fleetingly rallied with the better songs on the three-CD Emancipation (including My Computer, a collaboration with Kate Bush, one of his only real 80s peers).In 1999, after he condescended to play ball with the industry again via an Arista deal for the indifferent Rave Un2 the Joy Fantastic, I finally got to interview the guy. Except it wasn’t so much an interview as a sadistic grilling by a brilliant but somewhat paranoid narcissist who howled with laughter at the notion that anyone other than he himself was qualified to speak about his music. The idea that Susan Rogers, who’d sat for countless hours by his side at Paisley Park’s recording desks, “knew anything” about his music was, he said, risible. And that was before we even got near the title of my 1988 biography Imp of the Perverse. (I’ll leave you to imagine what he made of that appropriation from Edgar Allan Poe.) Forty-five minutes later I exited Prince’s Mayfair hotel suite, feeling rather like a mouse that hadn’t quite been finished off by a particularly fiendish cat. He fought the industry, bit the hands that fed him, and painted 'Slave' on his face It’s difficult not to feel that Prince eventually became his worst enemy. Instead of settling for a role as a treasured cult act, he fought the industry, bit the hands that fed him, and painted “Slave” on his face. He was always an odd mix of introspection, exhibitionism and control freakery. There was something perverse about him; he was never Michael Jackson or part of the entertainment status quo. He opted early on to stay in Minneapolis and build his very own Xanadu – Paisley Park – where he could control everything.For all the disappointments of his latter years – I was one of a posse of journalists bussed over to a rented Beverly Hills mansion to hear 2006’s autopilot release 3121 and watch him not playing any of his own songs – I never quite let go of the fantasy that Prince would one day make a true comeback and release something as stunning as Dirty Mind or Sign o’ the Times.No doubt there are thousands of unreleased nuggets lurking in the Paisley Park vaults, but I will have to let go of my fantasy now. It’s hard to believe that this hyperactive genius, the man who played secret nightclub gigs straight after finishing three-hour stadium shows, will never tear up another stage.Goodnight sweet Prince, and thank you for (almost) everything you gave.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Prince: a look back at his extraordinary career – videoBarney Hoskyns’s Small Town Talk is published by Faber