Guitar Star8pm, Sky ArtsIt’s the return of the only music contest on TV that sings a different tune to celeb-oriented talent shows. This year Bowie’s producer Tony Visconti, Grammy winner George Benson and classical guitarist Miloš are on hand to scout acts of all stripes. At this first audition stage, the entrants are whittled down from thousands to just eight, with umpteen would-be Hendrixes and Slashes banished home clutching wah-wah pedals and broken dreams. Hannah J DaviesBritain & Europe: The Immigration Question 9pm, BBC2The forthcoming EU referendum has incited arguments ranging from bureaucratic to economic, and feelings both progressive and madly nationalist. In this hour-long investigation, Mishal Husain weighs up the pros and cons of Brexit. Is immigration being efficiently regulated? And do the economic benefits outweigh the additional pressure on the NHS from treating Daily Mail readers whose pulses are set racing by the entire topic? John RobinsonBorn on the Same Day9pm, Channel 4An excellent idea for a popular history series: three people born the same day reflect on the events, both personal and historical, that have shaped them. The conceit is somewhat overbalanced by a celebrity hook: one of this trio, born 7 March 1944, is Sir Ranulph Fiennes. However, his extraordinary story doesn’t overshadow those of prolific foster mother Frances Chorlton or first-generation immigrant Ewart Rennalls. Andrew Mueller Black Power: America’s Armed Resistance 10.45pm, BBC1Despite the shock of the Charleston shootings and the subsequent emergence of the Black Lives Matter movement, police mistreatment of black Americans rages on. Dan Murdoch travels to Texas to meet members of the Black Liberation Movement, who are tackling things in confrontational fashion. An uncompromising and frequently uncomfortable look at the resurgence of the black power movement, thoroughly deserving of a wide audience. Mark Gibbings-JonesGeorge Clarke’s Old House, New Home 8pm, Channel 4The British obsession with property is bottomless, or at least Channel 4 reckons so. Tonight, George Clarke, whose passion is future-proofing old piles, visits a worker’s cottage in Hampshire and seeks to make it habitable for well-heeled modern inhabitants. He seeks inspiration by visiting a Victorian stable renovated to include a gym, cinema and roof garden, which the original builders had not thought to include for the horses. David StubbsRevolution and Romance: Musical Masters of the 19th Century9pm, BBC4In the final part, Suzy Klein explores the leadup to the 20th century. Playing and hearing music was becoming democratised, via the household piano and phonograph respectively, and composers such as Debussy were falling under the spell of the east; the sound of the Javanese gamelan caused “the froth on one’s beer to dissolve away”, burbled one French newspaper. Ali Catterall@midnight 12midnight, Comedy CentralThis excellent social media-powered panel show, stretched across four nights a week from tonight, is basically Whose Vine is tt Anyway? From a lively New York studio, three contestants – often names familiar from the fairly incestuous US podcasting scene – buzz in with improvised riffs on trending topics and viral videos. Chris Hardwick of The Nerdist and The Talking Dead attempts to keep score and order above the audience hubbub. Graeme Virtue      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Freddie Bartholomew and Basil Rathbone in David Copperfield. Photograph: Cine Text/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarFilm choiceDavid Copperfield (George Cukor, 1935), 5.10pm, TCMHugely popular in its day, this expansive Selznick/MGM production remains true to the spirit of Dickens’s favourite novel despite losing half the characters. Still, it is a wonderful ensemble: from Freddie Bartholomew’s David to WC Fields’s extraordinary Micawber; plus Basil Rathbone’s cruel Mr Murdstone and Jessie Ralph’s cuddly Peggotty. Paul HowlettLive sportInternational rugby: Chiefs v Wales 8.15am, Sky Sports 1 Wales prepare for their second Test against New Zealand with a tour match.Euro 2016 football: Austria v Hungary 4.30pm, ITV The Habsburg rivals face off. Portugal v Iceland airs 7.30pm on BBC1.International hockey: Great Britain v Germany 8pm, BT Sport 1 FIH Hockey Champions Trophy tie from London’s Olympic Park.