Surrounded by three blocks of luxury flats built to fund construction, the Design Museum opened its doors to its new home in Kensington after an £83m renovation.The now converted former Commonwealth Institute, will display the museum’s permanent collection for free for the first time in its history.We asked readers who attended its opening weekend to tell us what they thought of the building and its collection. Here’s what some of you said.‘Some brilliant exhibits but the space lacks a compelling narrative of design’Rating: 3 out of 5Respect must go to those who created the new Design Museum in a city which has many that are world-class.A design museum should exemplify the best possible principles and process in every aspect of its intent and execution. But, against this measure the new Design Museum is confused. Should it educate and engage the public or is it an architectural sculpture? Has the function of the museum and its collection become secondary to the form of the building, or is it about the packaging and not the contents?The space is cavernous and dramatic with over 10,000 square metres seemingly devoid of exhibits or purpose. The stairs move the people up and around the floors but there is really only one way up or down resulting in predictable congestion. The exhibition space for Designer Maker User is crammed into a corner of the second floor. There are some brilliant exhibits but the space and the curatorial effort lack a compelling narrative of design as a process for researching, understanding and meeting a diverse range of different needs. The Design Museum will be great in the future but today it is a work in progress. The Design Museum review – a magnificent achievement, but… Phill Julian, London ‘The building gives off a high level of bland’Rating: 2.5 out of 5They seem to have built a square box inside a building that is one of the least rectilinear of the 20th century. The design resembles a second rate college or university library that hides the dramatic interior almost completely. The original elevated central platform created a cohesion to the whole. The new compromised and timid central steps/seating area is confused and awkward to negotiate. Looking up from the ground level entrance one is faced with four pretty much vertical walls of timber and glass and that’s about it. Perhaps the designers wanted to create a bland backdrop to the design-based exhibits? Well, they’ve definitely achieved a high level of bland.I can see this interior being ripped out in 20 years time and being viewed as all a bit of a mistake. I suppose it was used to fund the project, but it is a shame that the new building closest to Kensington High Street blocks the view of the striking exterior. Overall a great opportunity missed.Kim Findlay, Wiltshire       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘We were left feeling bemused and uninspired’Rating: 1.5 out of 5My family went together as we used to enjoy the previous Design Museum, especially during the early years of my son’s life - he is now 16-years-old. Despite being told that there is now three times as much space in this new building (my husband felt the internal sweeping stairs of its original design had become too rectangular), walking past dull offices on the first floor and the closed library facility left us feeling bemused and uninspired. The permanent collection on the top floor was cramped in small sections, and my son pointed out that there seems to be more space in Ikea! The presentation felt more like a dull university lecture complete with standard political message, rather than the joy and inspiration of human ingenuity and design one expected. The exhibition Fear and Love was dystopian, and the robot/ machine parts were very badly presented - piles of coloured wool - with no example of which machine had managed to do this work. If the whole museum is a plea for more design solutions for the near future rather than an example of good use of space and previous design celebration, perhaps it has achieved its goal. Elizabeth Bradley, London ‘Two of the exhibits are very distasteful’Rating: 3 out of 5The conversion from the old building is brilliant with bold clean lines, amazing ceilings and a wonderful use of wood. The permanent exhibition is very nostalgic but has two very distasteful exhibits, one showing Hitler admiring the first Volkswagen Beetle and the other a poster deprecating Tony Blair. The Volkswagen Beetle was obviously a design milestone, but the ‘glorification’ of Hitler is absolutely inappropriate. The poster depicting Tony Blair as a liar, is grossly offensive and far too political considering that there are many posters that could have been shown, which wouldn’t cause offence. Bernard Olsburgh, Israel       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘The use of space makes no sense at all’Rating: 1.5 out of 5It is just so badly designed. It is a large building, but there are huge queues to see the tiny exhibition spaces. The rest of the visitors are crammed into a small gift shop area, or venturing on quests to get up all the staircases. I have never seen anything like it, and the use of space makes no sense at all. Most of it is taken up by an unnecessarily large atrium, a lavish office for the staff, restaurants, a second gift shop and large toilets. The actual permanent exhibition space must be a tiny percentage of the total internal volume of the building. Even then, it is full of the usual Anglepoise lamps and old iPods that you find in design museums everywhere. There seemed to be nothing imaginative about it. The whole expensive project seems to be there to aggrandise its managers and their architects. It doesn’t fulfill its primary purpose to inspire and educate people about design. I am sure the operators will claim that the queues will die down after the initial few weeks, but that will be because the word will get out that there is nothing to see. A wasted opportunity and a bad design. Martin French, Chelsea ‘The exhibits kept me interested throughout my visit’Rating: 4.5 out of 5The exhibits are fantastic. They kept me interested throughout my visit and were very relevant and up to date. However considering it’s called the Design Museum and is all about design, the actual design of the building is pretty terrible. We had a hard time working out where to go due to the lack of signage - possibly part of its minimalist design? Jake, Leicestershire 