Lisa Lucas began her new job as the third executive director of the National Book Foundation, which presents the National Book Awards, just this Monday. The Guardian caught up with Lucas. We talked about the 36-year-old’s transition to the Foundation from her previous position as publisher of the small but well-respected literary journal Guernica and, before that, with the Tribeca film festival, and about what her hopes are in her new role. Lucas has just become the first African American and first woman to hold her position with the 67-year-old organization.A lot of us in the writing world know Guernica, and you were publisher there, but this new job must be different in some ways. How do you see the transition?I had the opportunity to really be championing work that I believed in at Guernica. Sure, it’s a different kind of stage and a different kind of role, but I think the spirit is the same. I’m here to applaud and cheerlead and encourage people, whether that’s a writer being honored or a young person who we’re encouraging to become a reader, or whether it’s the staff and the amazing work we’re doing over here. I’m here to help to bring a bigger audience and support to that work. How excited were you when you first got this new job? Was there a time when you thought about the long list of famous authors from past and present who’ve won awards and thought about how unique your new opportunity is?Of course I was thrilled when I found out I would be taking on this role. How could I not be? It’s a dream job. It’s an incredible opportunity. But I don’t think there was ever a single moment when I wasn’t aware of the weight of the task at hand. The weight of the organization and what it’s meant for writers and literature and how many different skills and how much time it will require. But instead of being intimidated I look at it and think how we can rise to the occasion. It’s been about a month since the announcement, and I think I spent the majority of that time really thinking about how to prioritize, how to strategize, how to be humble, how to honor the work and the work that the current staff and my predecessor Harold [Augenbraum] have done. I think when you have an organization that has done such great work for so long, it makes you want to be really thoughtful about the choices that you make and how you honor that work going forward.  Lisa Lucas, executive director of the National Book Foundation. Photograph: Beowulf SheehanWhen I saw you speak at Rutgers-Camden the other night, you brought up your hopes to expand the reach of the Foundation. There have of course been calls from inside the literary community to be thinking about diversity in terms of our reading, in terms of publishing. Where do you think we are as a literary community and where would you like to see things go?Well, industry-wide I think we’re all addressing the fact that we need to think inclusively and we need to think diversely, and there are a lot of layers and levels to that. Sometimes it’s about who the reader is; sometimes it’s about who the writer is. Sometimes it’s about who the administrator or the editor is. There are always different ways where we can think about how to speak to a bigger, broader, more diverse audience. And I think starting out, part of the reason I feel really good about being here with the National Book Foundation, is that the work is inclusive. Just recently, our organization BookUp launched BookUp LGBTQ. I think when I look at Ta-Nehisi Coates winning an award this past year, when I look at the composition of the judges, when I look at the number of women and people of color who work in this very office, I think this organization has done a tremendous job of thinking inclusively. But I think one of the things that we need to do better is to communicate that outward.I think that the more times that people hear the words “National Book Awards” in different spaces across the country, in rural areas and urban areas that are not New York, the more that we do that the more that will be well understood, right? I want us to continue to do the kind of work we do but to have effective partners in areas where they’re not as saturated with literature or publishing. I think that that helps. I think we need to be reading across class lines, too. Diversity isn’t just about race. I do know that personally, to me, it’s important that we’re not speaking into an echo chamber. That’s not who I am at all. And that’s not been my experience with this place. I think I want to do what we’re doing but to do it where more people can see it and benefit from it and make sure that people are picking up these books.You have a broad background in the arts. What draws you to books personally and what are your ultimate hopes as far as the National Book Awards’ outreach?I can’t remember not being a reader. I grew up in a house full of readers. I was an only child until I was a teenager, and it was an escape from the world and a way to learn about other places. I grew up in suburban New Jersey. I remember reading From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E Frankweiler and reading about these two kids that stay overnight at the Met in New York and thinking, oh my God, these two kids are in the city just across the bridge that I’m too young to get to, that there’s this whole other world that’s magical, and I remember thinking how I loved feeling transported.When I was at Tribeca in a previous job, I’d be sitting in the coffee shop reading before work started. I was always pushing a book off on everyone. I don’t think any of those guys are surprised I’m doing what I’m doing now. I always loved books. Reading has been the thing that’s enriched my life the most. There’s a really earnest and really goofy desire to do this job and to help other people have that experience. The awards themselves are not inside baseball. They’re something that everybody is welcome to. It’s such a beautiful night. It’s a beautiful thing to celebrate, and I just think it’s the kind of evening that it’d be a joy to have even more people take part in.