Hometown: Chelmsford.The lineup: Connar Ridd (vocals, guitar). The background: Connar Ridd goes by the name of Freak (he prefers to use all capitals, “nice and loud and bold”, so you can see him coming). You can certainly hear him a mile off, this 19-year-old one-man band whose bleepified, poppy but riff-heavy grunge’n’roll nods, on his debut EP, to Nirvana and Arctic Monkeys. It really is all him (live, two mates handle bass and drums). He then adds assorted effects, “keyboards in” the synth-bass parts, and does all the vocals: his studio bedroom set-up comprises a cheap laptop, Logic Pro, a midi keyboard off eBay and a microphone his parents bought him for Christmas. Let’s not get carried away: by his age Paul Weller had recorded two albums with the Jam, and Alex Turner had just put the finishing touches to Whatever People Say I Am, That’s What I’m Not. Freak is not some freakish prodigy. But that EP is still an impressive first foray from someone who, until recently, was stacking shelves at the Co-op in Chelmsford. He had too much on his mind, too many angry thoughts, to bother with the banalities of quotidian existence. Ridd – who goes by the name of Freak because that’s how he feels (“I’ve always been the weird one,” he says) – went to the same school as Rat Boy, another high-energy young man using a peculiarly British form of rap-rock to express personal panic and societal rage. OK, maybe “rage” is a bit strong, but he does sound as though he’d like to do some damage with a spray-can.“It could be applied to anything,” he says of the track Someone Help Me, a three-minute burst of bottled-up frustration with an eruptive, brass-enhanced chorus that you’ll be humming down the street even as you kick the kerb. “Whether it’s me going from thinking everything is great to working in the Co-op, or everything in the country going to shit. It’s something for people who are angry.”What did they put in the water at Chelmer Valley high school to produce these disaffected youths? He laughs. “I don’t know,” he says. “It’s quite mad.”He sounds perky enough, even if his songs are full of dark thoughts: “I don’t want to pretend again / I’m tired of this pain,” he sings on Someone Help Me. At one point in the latter he sounds as though he’s declaring, “Kill me, kill me!” but actually it’s “fill me, heal me”. Does he hate himself and want to die?“In some ways,” he says. “In person I’m a lot happier and full of energy, but when I write my songs it gets quite deep.”True. For a minute there he had us worried. “Yeah, my manager was a bit concerned,” he says of the often misheard lyric to Someone Help Me. “So I told him, ‘I’m all right!’”What Happened? finds him declaring, “I am so empty” while I Like to Smile When I’m Sad is about “putting on a face to everyone else when you’re having to do shit you don’t wanna do”. Think Kevin the Teenager produced by Rick Rubin, Ridd’s favourite producer.He only started operating as Freak last November, issuing that debut EP in February 2016. Before that, he put up a series of covers on YouTube of artists ranging from Alicia Keys to System of a Down, sung in choirboy-pure tones, but he’s taken them down now. For a while he was in a death metal trio, with his older brother Brandon, called Kill the Freak, in the vein of Cannibal Corpse and Napalm Death. His dad got him into grunge and punk, even taking him to see UK Subs.“I’ve seen them three or four times – they’re wicked,” he says of the punk band fronted by 72-year-old Charlie Harper. “He signed my ticket, which was incredible. I was well starstruck. It was really inspiring to see someone still passionate about it, and still doing it.”He spent a year studying music production at a college in London, but felt alienated from his peers.“It was very druggy – every conversation was about how they were doing mushrooms or weed or cocaine and I’m not about that life,” he says. Freak prefers to focus on his music, hence the concentrated violence of tracks such as What Happened?, with its riff reminiscent of a sped-up Seven Nation Army, or Floating High, which he might want to be a little cautious about anyone litigious from Nirvana HQ hearing. Every song hits hard and and has an irresistible momentum, even if some of the lyrics – and the habit Ridd has of putting a fast-repeat vocal snippet in at every opportunity – are a bit 1989-Channel-4-backwards-baseball-cap-yoof-culchur. At the moment Ridd has his own imprint, Freak Recordings, although major labels are interested: he even spray-painted a handful of CD cases for his EP, stuck them in Freak-designed envelopes and sent them off to labels, blogs and the music press. What next? World domination?“I’d say so,” he says with disarming nonchalance. “I just want to get to the people who need the music I make – people who are angry, aggressive and want to have fun. World domination? Why not? Sure.”The buzz: “Nasty, fuzzed out indie rock with a taste of barbed wire pop” – Clash.The truth: Meet the angry young teen of electro-lite punk-grunge.Most likely to: Float High. Least likely to: Go Nowhere. What to buy: New single Nowhere is out now on Freak Recordings.File next to: Slaves, Rat Boy, Nirvana. Links: imthefreak.com.Ones to watch: Sirma, Known to Collapse, Harvey Sutherland, World Radio, the Altar o Black Ash. 