TV: Stacey Dooley: Sex In Strange PlacesPredictably, there’s still a place for Stacey Dooley in BBC3’s web-only brave new world. This new series is bleaker and less quirky than the title makes it sound. Episode one see Dooley’s sympathetic curiosity focus on sex workers in Turkey. The country has long been a tolerant, secular democracy, but a combination of the proximity of Islamic State in Syria and a hardline conservative government have tightened laws and shrunk horizons. It’s an entry-level analysis, but Dooley remains a feisty, intrepid and well-intentioned presence.BBC3Audio: WhistlestopWhile the oddness presently afflicting US politics might seem to be without precedent, this Slate podcast, hosted by political wonk and presenter of CBS’s primary debates John Dickerson, seeks to prove otherwise. Each episode profiles a different game-changing moment in previous US election campaigns – from Reagan’s primary challenge against President Gerald Ford (which, while unsuccessful, installed the governor of California as the representative of true conservatism), to Bill Clinton’s Comeback Kid campaign in 1992 – and considers how they shaped the current political climate.slate.comTV: Flaked Self-help gurus in California somehow seems like a textbook subject for a Netflix comedy starring Will Arnett. In Flaked, Arnett is Chip, a congenital liar with a history, and therefore a man ideally placed to rebrand himself as some sort of nebulously self-defining guru of personal development. The early stages are not without snarky promise, although whether Chip will establish himself as a lovable enough figure to root for remains to be seen.NetflixVideo: The British MastersJohn Doran’s series of interviews with maverick icons of British music has been a diverting treat for a while now. Previous episodes have seen the Quietus editor conversing with the likes of Mark E Smith, Dizzee Rascal, Viv Albertine and Jimmy Page. The latest sees John Cale mulling over everything from the legacy of the Velvet Underground to beheading a chicken on stage in Croydon.noisey.vice.comVideo: Darby ForeverThis slight but sweet Vimeo short stars Saturday Night Live’s Aidy Bryant as shop worker Darby. The film’s 20-minute running time is utilised every bit as cleverly as Darby uses the long, moribund hours of her job to dream. But could something brilliant be about to materialise in the real world? Delivery man Nick provides the love interest.Vimeo