When Spinal Tap visit Elvis Presley’s grave at Graceland in This Is Spinal Tap, they try to harmonise on a version of Heartbreak Hotel. In what style do they realise they are inadvertently singing?   Barbershop raga Their visit, they decide, offers “too much fucking perspective”    Close harmony prog    Metal yodelling    Laurel Canyon doo wop Which of the following has not been graffitoed on the walls around Graceland?   Elvis, I’m bearing your ghost child, and I’m confused because I’m a man!    Please show Jackie O a good time.    Elvis was a hero to most, but he never meant shit to me. Public Enemy said that. All the others are noted in the book Sound, Society and the Geography of Popular Music.    Thanks for carpeting the ceilings of our hearts. The reference to “carpeting the ceiling of our hearts” is based on which room in Graceland?   The bathroom in which Elvis died    The dining room    The pool room    The jungle room The ceiling of the jungle room – named for its decor – is covered with green carpet. In the title track of his Graceland album, with whom does Paul Simon visit the Memphis mansion?   Art Garfunkel    The daughter of his best friend    The child of his first marriage The child was Harper Simon, who has made excellent records in his own right.    The dude from the label Elvis bought Graceland on 19 March 1957. How much did he pay for it?   $37,750    $51,500    $85,100    $102,500 Which foreign premier, a devoted Elvis fan, was given a tour of the mansion by President George Bush in 2006?   Prime minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan  He shares Elvis’s birthday, 8 January    Prime minister Tony Blair of the UK    President Vladimir Putin of Russia    President Vicente Fox of Mexico In the song Walking in Memphis, Marc Cohn (and, in her version, Cher) follows Elvis from which street to the gates of Graceland?   Beale Street    Elvis Presley Boulevard    Highway 61    Union Avenue It would be a long walk. Union Avenue is nowhere near Graceland. Which person listed below has never visited Graceland, according to those who run the place?   Len Goodman of Strictly Come Dancing fame    Nigella Lawson of cooking fame    Ian McEwan of novel-writing fame The Graceland website lists its celebrity visitors, in unnerving detail.    Princes William and Harry of royal fame In their song RICO, what do Meek Mill and Drake decide they should probably do?   Tear down Graceland    Move in to Graceland The track was recorded before the two rappers decided they couldn’t stand each other.    Eat cheeseburgers in Graceland    Tag the walls of Graceland What did Paul McCartney leave on Elvis’s grave when he visited Graceland in 2013?   A guitar pick  It was “so Elvis can play in heaven”.    A fried peanut butter and banana sandwich    A copy of We All Stand Together, by Paul McCartney and the Frog Chorus    A photo of the Beatles meeting Elvis, on 27 August 1965 You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers