Are we heading towards “peak TV”? The idea that there is simply too much good television for one person to watch will be familiar to anyone who has spent their first week back at work avoiding Making a Murderer spoilers or toiling through the Game of Thrones boxset they got for Christmas. Bad luck, guys – while you were catching up on last year’s treats you’ve already fallen behind on 2016: there are two hours of War and Peace to catch up on, and the same again for Deutschland 83. What was that? Your New Year resolution was to exercise more? OK, but Jessica Jones won’t watch itself.Never catch-up TV: 2015 was the year of too many good shows Of course, the ultimate fix is to realise that you don’t have to watch everything that comes highly recommended. The world is full of delicious food but nobody advises that you spend your weekend with the curtains drawn as you work your way through everything Deliveroo can send. However, if you are a committed viewer, then the one tool you need is knowing when to quit. Dropping out of a boxset which has multiple seasons looming ahead is a liberating feeling. To quote yet more unmissable TV, it’s like that bit in Peep Show when Mark and Jez leave a boring play during the interval (“I was meant to be out until 11 and it’s not even 9. I’ve made time; I’m golden!”).Essentially, there are three key points at which you can decide to ditch a series and, like the El Dude brothers, get back your precious time. They are …Four hundred shows and no time to watch them: is there too much TV on television? 1. After episode one (aka the nuclear option)It features dragons and swords, the theme music is awful, Jeremy Piven is in it. There are lots of valid reasons to turn against a TV series immediately and identifying your parameters is important. If your opinion of the pilot is “the main character needs to die now” then it’s safe to say it has not grabbed you. Move on and start something else. Additionally, this strategy gives you the chance to get on Twitter and mark yourself out as the renegade maverick who ignores the crowd and plays by their own rules. You know the guy, he hates Master of None (“#HipsterNonsense”) and was dissing Sherlock years before anyone. Everyone loves that guy. Time saved: 10 hours +2. The halfway point: it was all going so wellThe first episode was exciting, the second even better and you had high hopes for that character played by an actor you once saw in an episode of Casualty. But wait. That initial glide through the series has become a trudge. Convinced you’re nearly halfway through, you pause to see how much time has passed … and you’re only 18 minutes in. There are 42 more episodes to go and each one feels like an hour. Not good signs – it’s time to turn to your trusty friend, Wikipedia. Read the upcoming episode guides and see what’s next. If it sounds good, continue; if, at any point the, phrase “… is all a figment of his imagination” appears then turn everything off immediately.Time saved: five hours or more3. After the first seasonThat first year was great, but it won’t be repeated. If you’re honest, this probably should have been a film or a mini-series at most (cough *Homeland* cough). The TV landscape is littered with shows that failed to capitalise on a strong debut outing and end up lingering like a bad smell; it’s your job to cut them off at the source. Nobody needs to be subjected to the latter days of Dexter or to spend time worrying about Downton Abbey’s Cottage hospital.Time saved: years, potentiallyWhat was the last TV series you bailed out of at the first available exit? Let us know.