Today, it is almost a commonplace that technology is transforming the world, and that many of us are struggling to cope. But Alvin Toffler, who has died at the age of 87, was the first to take that idea into the mainstream in his book Future Shock (1970), which blamed society’s ills on the “dizzying disorientation brought on by the premature arrival of the future”.It was a sensation, selling millions of copies, and was turned into a film narrated by Orson Welles. Alongside further works such as The Third Wave (1980), it established Toffler as one of the world’s most famous futurists, with phrases such as “future shock” and “information overload” added to the lexicon.It is easy to pick out Toffler’s misses: his predictions that universities would collapse by 2000; that human cloning would arrive by the mid-80s; that we would live in artificial cities beneath the oceans. But far more impressive was how much he got right. He was among the first to predict the demise of the nuclear family; the acceptance of gay marriage; the death of the job for life; the rise of the rental economy; that we would come to suffer from too much choice rather than too little.Above all, he got his biggest call right: that an industrial economy based on things was being replaced by a “post-industrial” one based on ideas, and that this process would result in wrenching economic and social change. As he wrote in The Third Wave: “In this bewildering context, businessmen swim against highly erratic economic currents; politicians see their ratings bob wildly up and down … Value systems splinter and crash, while the lifeboats of family, church and state are hurled madly about.”Toffler helped to foster the belief within Silicon Valley and elsewhere that the function of technology firms was not just to make money, but to change the world. He also pioneered the idea of the writer as public intellectual, parlaying that first bestseller into a lucrative career as a lecturer, consultant and all-purpose oracle. Toffler’s publicity-friendly neologisms and overheated language – one reviewer complained that he “sends flocks of facts and speculation whirling past like birds in a tornado” – did not always catch on. For every “prosumer” (someone who both produces and consumes products or media) there was a forgotten “cognitariat” or “practopia”. But many of the authors filling the popular science shelves are essentially colouring within the lines he drew.Born in New York, Alvin was the son of Sam, a furrier, and his wife, Rose (nee Albaum), both Jewish immigrants from Poland. In 1946 he went to New York University to study English, but spent more time working on progressive causes such as registering black voters. In 1948, he spotted a “gorgeous blonde” walking across the park: Heidi Farrell, who would become Toffler’s wife and professional partner (although she was acknowledged as his co-author only in their later books).Inspired by Toffler’s bohemian aunt and uncle, the pair decided to immerse themselves in the lives of the working classes in order to write the “great American novel” and politicise the proletariat. In 1950 they moved to Cleveland, Ohio, where they got married and found work in separate factories, Toffler as a welder and millwright. But their new colleagues didn’t want their consciousnesses raised, and Toffler’s poetry and fiction failed to sell. After four years, he abandoned the factory floor for journalism, ending up as a columnist and labour editor at Fortune magazine. In 1962 he went freelance, consulting for IBM, Xerox and AT&T, and interviewing Vladimir Nabokov for Playboy.The genesis of Future Shock was a well-received 1965 article in Horizon magazine, and it was followed by a dozen other books on the future of corporations, education, war and much more, all in effect co-written with Heidi.While Toffler Associates, the consultancy firm which the couple co-founded in 1996, enjoyed a steady stream of business, Toffler’s celebrity in the US gradually dimmed, perhaps, as one interviewer suggested, because the future he forecast had already arrived. But he was feted in Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and China, where The Third Wave was reportedly outsold only by Deng Xiaoping’s collected speeches. The Communist party even named him as one of the 50 foreigners who had done most to affect China’s development.Other fans include Hugo Chávez, Indira Gandhi and Mikhail Gorbachev. Toffler always insisted that he wasn’t a prophet: “I don’t believe anybody knows the future, and anybody who claims to is a fraud.” But he said he did have certain advantages: he had the time to research in depth, and his fame gave him “immediate access to Nobel prizewinners, prime ministers, business people, housewives or student radicals anywhere in the world”.He was perennially pessimistic about the ability of government and other bureaucracies (including large companies) to cope with the changes he described. As early as 1996 he warned that the European Union’s “runaway harmonisation of everything in sight from education to standards for automobile tyres” would lead to disaster. Yet he still maintained that while humanity faces “the deepest social upheaval and creative restructuring of all time”, the end result would be a great leap forward for mankind.Heidi survives Alvin. The couple’s only child, their daughter Karen, died in 2000, aged 46, after developing Guillain-Barré syndrome.• Alvin Eugene Toffler, futurist, born 4 October 1928; died 27 June 2016