Two of Hollywood’s major studios, 20th Century Fox and Paramount, have no films at all by female directors coming out between now and 2018. All of the 22 movies being released by Fox and the 25 by Paramount will be directed by men. An investigation by Hollywood industry site the Wrap also revealed that Fox has not released a single film directed by a woman since Elizabeth Allen Rosenbaum’s Ramona and Beezus in 2010. Paramount’s last film with a female director was 2014’s Selma, directed by Ava DuVernay, an outspoken advocate for the need to increase diversity behind the lens.Women are 'directors on just 7% of top Hollywood films' This news comes in the wake of a recent report from the Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film at San Diego State University, which found that women directed just 7% of Hollywood’s top 250 films in 2014, while men were in charge of 85% of all US movies. The film industry is under intense pressure to deal with allegations of gender discrimination. Shortly before the study was released, US equal opportunities officials vowed to interview dozens of female film-makers as part of a historic inquiry into gender discrimination in Hollywood.Many of the film industry’s major female players have spoken out about Hollywood’s problem with gender. Jessica Chastain published a widely circulated essay in which she relayed the positive experience of working on her upcoming film, The Zookeeper’s Wife, because it boasted a largely female crew. In a reference to Viola Davis’s Emmy awards speech, during which her co-star from The Help said, “The only thing that separates women of color from anyone else is opportunity,” Chastain wrote: “It’s the same situation with female directors versus male directors – they are not given the same opportunity.”Keira Knightley also addressed the issue in an interview last year, asking: “Where are the female stories?” She added:“I think the pay [gap in the entertainment business] is a huge thing, but I’m actually more concerned over the lack of our voices being heard.”On a more hopeful note, The Wrap found that other major studios are making films with women directors. Disney recently hired DuVernay to direct their highly anticipated adaptation of the popular children’s novel A Wrinkle in Time. The studio is also working with Mira Nair on her upcoming Queen of Katwe, set for release later this year, as well as Jennifer Lee, who is returning to co-direct Frozen 2.Hollywood prejudice against female directors to have US equal opportunity inquiry Universal’s upcoming Bridge Jones sequel, Bridget Jones’s Baby, is directed by Sharon Maguire. The studio also has an upcoming live-action adaptation of The Little Mermaid in the pipeline, directed by Rebecca Thomas, while Pitch Perfect 3 will see Elizabeth Banks return to the director’s chair following the blockbuster success of the previous film in the series. At Sony, Banks is developing a new take on Charlie’s Angels. The studio also currently has Patricia Riggen’s successful religious drama Miracles From Heaven out in theaters, while its TriStar label is releasing Jodie Foster’s Cannes-bound thriller Money Monster in May. Warner Bros, Hollywood’s most prolific studio, is expected to release three films directed by women over the next few years: this June’s romance Me Before You from Thea Sharrock, the much-hyped Wonder Woman from Monster director Patty Jenkins, and Unforgettable, directed by the studio’s longtime producer Denise Di Novi.