Digital music revenues have surpassed the takings from traditional music formats for the first time, according to an industry report.Worldwide, digital revenues – from streaming subscriptions, downloads, and advertising revenue on sites such as YouTube – accounted for 45% of the total in 2015, compared with 39% for physical formats such as CDs and vinyl records.The report by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) attributed the change to the popularity of streaming, which has altered the way many people listen to music. The subscription value of streaming services such as Spotify reached $68m (£47.7m) last year, a growth of 66% from 2014.The increase in streaming contributed to the first growth in revenue for the music industry since 1995, and totalled £10.2bn. With digital sales amounting to revenue of £4.7bn and streaming revenue rising to £2bn, it more than offset the continuing decline in sales of physical albums.IFPI’s chief executive, Frances Moore, said that after two tough decades for the music industry, the increase in people consuming music in new ways was to be celebrated. She said the figures reflected “an industry that has adapted to the digital age and emerged stronger and smarter”.But the figures also highlighted the widening gap between the amount of music consumed and the cash earned by artists. The issue of the small income musicians get from streaming services such as Spotify – between $0.006 and $0.0084 each time someone listens to a song – is a source of contention for artists, including Taylor Swift, who refused to allow streaming of her songs.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Taylor Swift, who banned streaming of her work. Photograph: Mark Metcalfe/Getty Images“Music is art, and art is important and rare. Important, rare things are valuable. Valuable things should be paid for,” Swift said in 2014. “It’s my opinion that music should not be free, and my prediction is that individual artists and their labels will someday decide what an album’s price point is. I hope they don’t underestimate themselves or undervalue their art.”The IFPI estimates that Spotify paid record companies £13 per user in 2014. The problem is exacerbated by free websites such as YouTube, which paid an estimated 70p per user to music rights holders in 2015.Moore warned of the implication of the “gross mismatch” between the number of listeners and the money being generated, and called for legislation to make the system fairer. “Revenues are not being fairly returned to rights holders. The message is clear and it comes from a united music community: the value gap is the biggest constraint to revenue growth for artists, record labels and all music rights holders. Change is needed, and it is to policymakers that the music sector looks to effect change”The view was echoed by Edgar Berger, of Sony Music Entertainment. “The music industry is performing below its potential. Music consumption is soaring, but the revenues returning to artists and rights holders are not. The reason is a distortion of the market. It’s not only fair to take action. It’s also desperately needed to secure sustainable growth,” he said.Last year was a good year not only for the music industry generally but for British music in particular. Adele, Ed Sheeran, One Direction, Coldplay and Sam Smith made up half of the top 10 biggest-selling artists worldwide in 2015.Between them, the five British artists sold almost 28m albums last year, though Adele’s sales of 17.5m soared far above the rest, making her album 25 the biggest-selling album in the world in 2015. Despite having been released the year before, Sheeran’s X and Smith’s In the Lonely Hour each made it into the top five, with sales of 3.5m and 2.6m respectively. See You Again by Wiz Khalifa featuring Charlie Puth was the biggest-selling single of the year, reporting global sales of 20.9m. 