Schools were barricaded, Halloween celebrations banned. Knife-wielding “creepy clowns” have been terrorising the citizenry of suburban America and Europe. What’s it all about? And whither the art form of Grimaldi and Grock, of Chaplin and, er, Krusty from The Simpsons? Who better to ask than the world-renowned clown teacher Philippe Gaulier, whiskery homunculus of funny to whose ashram in Étampes, Paris, wannabe comedy stars flock.​The great clown panic of 2016: ‘​a volatile mix of fear and contagion’ “It doesn’t mean anything,” says Gaulier via Skype from Étampes. Notoriously brusque, the clown guru isn’t wasting words on the craze. “It’s just gangsters taking the mask of clowns to be gangsters. Some people put on police costumes to be gangsters. Bon,” he croaks, sending a great Gallic shrug coursing down my broadband. “It’s just that gangsters change how they work.”South-west of Paris, it seems, is blissfully immune to the white-faced, red-nosed terror that has swept the western world. But not to coulrophobia (fear of clowns) generally, which Gaulier acknowledges – if not for the reasons you’d expect. “Some children are scared because the clown, for example, breaks plates or does something forbidden. So the children go ‘Aaargh! Your family is going to be pissed off because you break plates!’” I’m not sure Gaulier has the full measure of the current clown terror. “I once did a 10-minute TV routine in Switzerland with my partner Pierre Byland,” he says. “We broke 20 plates, and the children who watched it did the same at home, breaking all their family’s plates. It was a scandal!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A clown doesn’t need any of that stuff’ … Tim Curry in Stephen King’s It. Photograph: Allstar/Lorimar TelevisionI’m not sure that crockery was foremost in the mind of the eight-year-old Swedish boy who leapt from a balcony last month to escape a clown-costumed intruder. But Gaulier may be on to something: the idea that clowns are beyond social norms, anarchic bordering on transgressive. But surely it’s the inhuman painted face, the lurid wigs and candy-coloured costumes that give us the heebie-jeebies. “The makeup is sometimes exaggerated,” he confesses, “and it could create some fear for young children.”“When I was a kid,” says Gaulier, who is now 73, “I saw the best clown in Paris, in Cirque d’hiver. In those days, the spotlights were really primitive, there were two thousand of us and we didn’t see the clowns very well, so they had to exaggerate the makeup.” To a grotesque degree? “Oui, grotesque,” he says.White-face clown tends to be credited to the legendary pre-Victorian pantomime act Joseph Grimaldi, the tension between whose depressive personality and leering features is the sine qua non of the scary (or, at least, unsettling) clown. But Gaulier traces its origin further back. “Like the white face of a mime, it comes from the colour of flour. Always the village idiot in rural life was falling down in the flour, and he would come away completely white, and everyone would say, ‘Ho ho, he’s the village idiot’ – or the clown.”But painted face, rainbow-hued jumpsuit, outsize shoes – these are yesterday’s news in clown world, says Gaulier. “That’s more or less finished. As a teacher, I like to work with a red nose because, when a student puts one on, I see better how he was when he was a child. But, outside of school, I don’t so much like clown costumes, makeup, red nose.” As the creepy clown craze continues, he’s not alone. “Once a student has discovered his clown,” Gaulier concludes, “I love it when he no longer announces with his outfit, ‘Hello, I’m a clown’. A clown doesn’t need any of that stuff: a clown is innocent.”