In the early 00s, most TV shows about teenagers, particularly the American ones, were glossy affairs propped up by a cast of actors at least 10 years older than their fictional age. Dawson’s Creek, The OC and Gossip Girl showed slick fantasy lives that revolved around money and movie-star looks. They offered a traditional portrait of what they thought their viewers might aspire to. Bizarrely, with hindsight, this involved ostentatious houses and cars and torrid romantic affairs that took on the language of middle-aged married couples.Skins changed all that. It first aired 10 years ago today, and it took the radical step of considering what young viewers might want and aspire to by actually thinking about and consulting young viewers. It told the story of a group of mates in Bristol who were leaving school, who slept with each other, went to parties, drank a lot, smoked weed, and talked like the kids they were. Their personal dramas weren’t the dramas of adults transposed on to slightly younger adults to act out; they were smaller, more honest and more precise than that. The first series, which remains the best (I have a soft spot for the third, too, though I prefer not to think about the final cycle and the dreary “specials”), played with typical teenage issues. They were exaggerated and comic, but believable nonetheless: the characters were dealing with losing their virginity, eating disorders, school trips, sexuality, divorce, friendships, and not feeling good enough for your peers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tabloids wrote about real-life ‘Skins parties’ with their sex and their explicit drug use. Photograph: Channel 4The actors were largely the age of the characters they played and the writers were not much older, which explains why it frequently felt alienating to anyone over the age of 25. It was smart enough to add to the fantasy by turning all of the parents into feckless idiots with no idea what their kids were up to, because they were so consumed by the dramas of their own making. It gave the show its “us against the world” swagger. Much of the controversy around its early episodes criticised its portrayal of sex, bad language, and explicit drug use. Tabloids wrote about real-life “Skins parties” with pretend disgust. But it was always careful to temper the hedonism with consequences, the comedy with tragedy. Even the wildest, most gregarious characters – Chris, and later Cook – had problems they were running away from. If it showed what teenagers might be like at the party, it also showed the hangover. Slamming it for being irresponsible missed the point: it was escapist as much as it was realistic, and it all came together best in that balance.Many of those involved in the show went on to far bigger things: Nicholas Hoult, Tony, is an X-Man. Jack O’Connell, Cook, got Angelina Jolie to attempt a Derby accent in public, while writer Jack Thorne is at the top of his game, after the TV series of This Is England, the outstanding National Treasure, and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. This week, Joe Dempsie, who played Chris and is now in Game of Thrones, tweeted that Dev Patel (Anwar) marked the show’s 10th anniversary by bagging an Oscar nomination.I went back recently and watched some old episodes, suspecting that it might have dated, might feel like a relic of another time. In the 10 years since it began, teenage life has certainly changed a lot, as has the world it depicts. On the whole, teenagers don’t drink like they used to. They go out less. There aren’t as many places to go anyway, as clubs are closing down. University is expensive and tens of thousands of pounds’ worth of debt is to be taken seriously. It’s hard to imagine a show so gloriously hedonistic being made today, and that side of it now seems sadly naive. In that respect, it is something of a period piece. You might have expected it to have launched an army of teen-show imitators, but its influence has been more subtle. Its unvarnished sense of playfulness endured in series like My Mad Fat Diary, Fresh Meat, The Inbetweeners and even Chewing Gum, but there’s been nothing quite like it since.But watching it again makes it clear that it’s still great. It’s a brilliant, original drama, full of warmth and wit and fun, still entertaining, still outrageous, and still far more grown-up than it ever let on.You can watch Skins now on All 4 or Netflix. 