In May 2012, on the day Avengers Assemble – you saw it, right? Everyone did – was released on 3,500 screens across north America, I published a review in the New York Times in which I praised some aspects of the movie – the cleverness of its dialogue, the sharpness of the performances – while complaining about others, in particular its sacrifice of originality on the altar of blockbuster conformity. If you’ll allow me to quote myself: “The secret of Avengers Assemble is that it is a snappy little dialogue comedy dressed up as something else, that something else being a giant ATM for Marvel and its new studio overlords, the Walt Disney Company.” That assessment stands up pretty well, if I say so myself. By the time Avengers: Age of Ultron came along a few years later everyone else seemed to be saying more or less the same thing: that its charms and thrills were overwhelmed by soulless corporate spectacle. There is some satisfaction in having been in the vanguard of pointing out the obvious.At the time, though, I was part of a premature backlash. Not long after my review was posted on the New York Times website, Samuel L Jackson, who plays Nick Fury in the movie and in other Marvel Universe franchise instalments, posted a Twitter message exhorting “#avengersfans” that “AO Scott needs a new job! Let’s help him find one! One he can ACTUALLY do!” Scores of his followers heeded his call, not by demanding that my editors fire me but, in the best Twitter tradition, by retweeting Jackson’s outburst and adding their own vivid suggestions about what I was qualified to do with myself. The more coherent tweets expressed familiar, you might even say canonical, anticritical sentiments: that I had no capacity for joy; that I wanted to ruin everyone else’s fun; that I was a hater, a square, and a snob; even – and this was kind of a new one – that the nerdy kid in middle school who everybody picked on because he didn’t like comic books had grown up to be me. (In my day, some of the nerdy kids everybody picked on were the ones who did like comic books, but I guess things have changed now that the superheroes and their fanboy followers have taken over everything. I was picked on for reasons that had nothing to do with comic books.)Samuel L. Jackson (@SamuelLJackson)#Avengers fans,NY Times critic AO Scott needs a new job! Let's help him find one! One he can ACTUALLY do!May 3, 2012The Avengers Assemble incident blew up into one of those absurd and hyperactive internet squalls that are now a fixture of our cultural life. Jackson and I were Photoshopped into action-movie combat poses on entertainment websites. Miniature think-pieces sprouted like mushrooms after a rainstorm. Our Twitter beef made the news in Brazil, Germany, and Japan. A few of my colleagues embraced the cause of standing up not only for my own beleaguered self, but also for the integrity and importance of the job I was in Jackson’s view unqualified to do.People ask now if I was shocked or upset. On the contrary, I was grateful. Neither my person nor my livelihood was in any danger, and Avengers Assemble went on to become the second-fastest film to date to reach $1bn at the global box office. I gained a few hundred followers on Twitter and became, for a few minutes, both a hissable villain and a make-believe martyr for a noble and much-maligned cause. It was win-win all around, and then everyone moved on. But even a tempest in a teapot can have meteorological significance, and I think Jackson raised a valid and vital question. Putting aside the merits or limitations of what I wrote about Avengers Assemble or any other movie, it’s always worth asking just what the job of the critic is, and how it might actually be done.If you ask around – or read some of my mail – you will learn that a critic is, above all, a failed artist, unloading long-simmering, envious resentments on those who had the luck, talent, or discipline to succeed. This assumption is so widespread as to amount to an article of public faith. Every working critic could easily assemble, from discarded letters and deleted emails, a suite of variations on the themes of “You’re just jealous” and “I’d like to see you do better.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration by Alec Doherty.In response, it can always be noted (immodestly, and therefore not always persuasively) that history provides empirical, biographical evidence to the contrary: an extensive roster of important critics who were also masters of various arts. In the mid-19th century, Charles Baudelaire wrote brilliantly about modern painting without harming either his skills or his standing as a poet; in the second half of the 20th, John Ashbery and Frank O’Hara did the same. Philip Larkin, another poet, wrote ardently and insightfully, albeit with a touch of his habitual grumpiness, about jazz. Hector Berlioz was a pre-eminent music critic as well as a great composer. George Bernard Shaw was both one of the greatest English-language drama critics and one of the greatest English-language dramatists of his time. Le Corbusier’s writings about architecture have been at least as influential as his buildings, and are perhaps more accommodating. The key directors of the French New Wave – Jean-Luc Godard, Eric Rohmer, Claude Chabrol, François Truffaut – started out as film critics, associated with the journal Cahiers du Cinéma. Most of the significant critics of poetry since at least the Romantic era have also been poets, and a few (Samuel Taylor Coleridge, T S Eliot) have attained canonical stature in both forms. So there!But the defensive critic may be compelled to admit that such figures are outliers, exceptions that prove a deeply embedded rule. The rule is upheld by the obvious and apparently immutable hierarchical distinction between what critics and artists do. One person may do both, but there is little doubt about where the real value – the real work – resides. The novels are OK, but it’s the book reviews that really stand out. Is it possible to imagine fainter, more damning praise? The writers and poets of whom this can be said belong mostly to the ranks of the minor and the almost- memorable. The number of critics who have managed to last – to claim, on the basis of their critical writing alone, a foothold on Parnassus or a spot in the canon – is vanishingly small.This is no doubt because criticism is understood to be a time-bound, reactive, secondary activity, stealing whatever temporary prestige, importance, or shock value it has from the durable labour of real artists. As their art persists beyond the difficult moment of its birth, it leaves behind not only the original responses it provoked, but also the world that spawned those responses. Moving toward its future – from the church altar to the museum; from the bookseller’s stall to the classroom; from the concert hall to the recording studio; from the run-down Times Square grindhouse to the Criterion Collection DVD box; from the ragged domain of physical artefacts to the seamless digital archive – the work acquires new admirers, fresh sceptics, and calls forth interpretations that discern previously unsuspected meanings and pleasures within its familiar contours. Art, in other words, is durable and also mutable, whereas criticism is fixed and therefore perishable. The job of criticism is to be about art; the job of art is just to be. Criticism, in this view, is, at best, helpful and disposable, an inessential, changeable prop, like the temporary partition in the gallery on which a painting is hung or the cover slapped on a paperback edition of a classic book. Useful, perhaps, but basically superfluous.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   AO Scott: ‘I want to insist that the critic is also a creator.’ Photograph: Slaven Vlasic/Getty ImagesBut exactly the opposite is true. It is my contention here that criticism is art’s late-born twin. They draw strength and identity from a single source, even if, like most siblings, their mutual dependency is frequently cloaked in rivalry and suspicion. Will it sound defensive or pretentious if I say that criticism is an art in its own right? Not in the narrow, quotidian sense in which “art” is more or less synonymous with skill, but in the grand, fully exalted, Romantic meaning of the word. That the critic is a craftsman of sorts is obvious enough; I want to insist that the critic is also a creator. And if my own workmanlike efforts are inadequate to support the assertion – because, look, I was on deadline and the editor cut the best parts and nobody understands me, anyway – let me fall back, temporarily, on an argument from authority. H L Mencken, the sage of Baltimore and the scourge of all that was phoney and flabby in American culture in the first half of the 20th century, declared that any good critic was acting not from “the motive of the pedagogue, but the motive of the artist”. Rebutting the popular misconception that the critic “writes because he is possessed by a passion to advance enlightenment, to put down error and wrong, to disseminate some specific doctrine” – in short, to make arguments – he proposed a much more basic impulse. What motivates the critic “is no more and no less than the simple desire to function freely and beautifully, to give outward and objective form to ideas that bubble inwardly and have a fascinating lure in them, to get rid of them dramatically and make an articulate noise in the world.”Simon Mayo and Mark Kermode: the best double act in the movies? Who are today’s critics? It’s complicated. The sheer variety of schools, styles, temperaments, and theories – to say nothing of the endless proliferation of objects and activities that invite critical scrutiny – makes it almost impossible to define. Highly credentialled scholars employed at universities identify themselves as critics; so do newspaper hacks sweating out a few inches of deadline copy after a night spent wrestling with a local repertory theatre production of Chekhov, the first episodes of a new cable television series, or the latest iteration of a first-person-shooter video game. Bloggers writing about the same phenomena at greater length or tweeters dispatching 140-character verdicts can be called critics too, and so can the kibitzers trailing behind them, nodding vigorously or taking furious exception. The largest retail supplier of criticism in the world today may well be Amazon, a pioneer in the online distribution of consumer opinions along with books, DVDs, household appliances, bingeworthy series, original works of art, and nearly anything else that can be commodified. There is also a brisk market in critical derivatives, tranches of aggregated opinion securitised by Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic, where data-crunching bots boil bushels of raw prose down into easily digestible numbers. Avengers: Age of Ultron is certified Fresh with 74%!Criticism as a job, however, is a surprisingly recent and contingent phenomenon: the professional critic is a creature of print. There are important texts in the western critical canon that predate Gutenberg, it is true (mostly works of generalisation that survived from Greek and Roman antiquity), and also, more recently, a tiny handful of critics who have enlarged their fortunes and reputations in the McLuhanesque glow of television. But criticism is, above all, a discipline of writing, and a critic is a particular species of writer, one that has flourished over the past few centuries in a distinctively modern cultural ecosystem of widening literacy and periodical publication.  Illustration by Alec Doherty.This species, not always beloved, appears at present to be facing the prospect of extinction. The critic’s inky, pulpy native habitat, a sometimes mean and shabby place but a home all the same, is threatened, like so much else, by the blindingly rapid rise of digital media, which has already, in a little more than a decade, decisively transformed the world of print and may yet kill it off entirely. Far-seeing media mystics and hardheaded business analysts routinely show up on social media, on television, and between hard covers to prophesy the death of newspapers, the evolution of books and magazines into e- and app versions of their former selves, and the imminent obsolescence of all the old ways of doing things.Their visions grow less outlandish and more self-evident every day. There is no question that the world of printed discourse, in which criticism has occupied a small but well-appointed corner, is undergoing enormous change. The questions – at least as they are routinely brought up in academic symposia, industry gatherings, and late-night drunken pity parties – have to do with the direction and consequences of the change. Given all the momentous and unprecedented transformations convulsing the globe – the rise of the internet and the collapse of the public attention span; the spread of social media and the polarisation of political life; the decline of everything and the triumph of everything else – what does the future of argument look like?Over the last decade and a half, the explosion of digital communication technology has shaken the edifice of journalism and unsettled the foundations of print culture. Daily newspapers, glossy weekly and monthly magazines, learned journals, and bound books, for more than two centuries the flagships of civilised discourse and universal knowledge – that whole material infrastructure of literacy has, all of a sudden, seemed in danger of vaporising, or if not vanishing entirely then turning into something less tangible and more ephemeral. The shift has been rapid, relentless, and extremely confusing. New gadgets drop into our hands that perform some of the functions that used to belong to bound and printed objects, and some of those new inventions turn what had seemed to belong to the realm of science fiction into commonplace facts of everyday life. The internet is a hive of the kind of quarrelsome contention that is one manifestation of the critical spirit The rise of digital technology and the expansion of apparently frictionless and instantaneous communication on the internet have had a calamitous impact on older ways of distributing information. As hundred-year-old business models based on advertising, subscriptions, and retail book-store and newsstand sales – an infrastructure of distribution built on a bedrock of copyright – have crumbled, so has the morale among those who work in what we have learned to call (with a sigh or a sneer) the traditional media. Revenues have fallen even when free online access has caused readership of periodicals to rise, since the formulas for linking circulation to advertising rates turned out not to obtain on the web. Scores of newspapers and magazines have scaled back or gone under. Foreign bureaux and copy desks have shut down, and thousands of editors and reporters have been laid off, among them hundreds of critics. An anxious, fatalistic mood permeates newsrooms, journalists’ watering holes, and expense-account lunch spots. Writers and editors have begun to feel like blacksmiths and buggy-whip dealers contemplating the ascendance of the automobile. Nostalgia and artisanal pride may keep us around for a while, but nothing will ever really be the same. We must adapt or die, replacing old idioms and practices, rooted in the materialism of paper and ink, with the more abstract language of the virtual domain. We bid farewell to proofs and slugs, endnotes and front matter, and embrace feeds, hyperlinks, search engine optimisation, social web audience development, and whatever new catchphrase or concept promises to save us. We learn the vernacular of clicks and uniques and try to find a home and a voice in publications that are also publishing platforms.From one perspective – on some days – this upheaval can feel tragic, even apocalyptic. A cosmos that has existed more or less since the 18th century – the age of London wits and Paris philosophes – teeters on the brink of obsolescence .But a slight shift in perspective – a generational shift, partly, but also an adjustment of sensibilities and expectations – brings a very different picture into view. There may be fewer print outlets, and fewer critics employed at them, but surely if the internet is anything it is a hive of the kind of quarrelsome contention that is one manifestation of the critical spirit. Individual and group blogs devoted to various art forms – and catering to specialised communities of taste among devotees of those art forms – have proliferated. The web may threaten to puncture the authority and challenge the permanence of print, but what it offers is a dizzying, sometimes overwhelming diversity of voices, a frequently cacophonous symphony of mockery, snark, rage, and mischief not infrequently leavened by clarity, conviction, and intellectual stamina.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration by Alec Doherty.The shape of the digital future is hard to predict – which will hardly deter self-appointed prophets and well-paid consultants from doing just that. What is certain is that there will be no shortage of words. Physical and economic barriers to the production and circulation of discourse have crumbled; digital culture is a culture of abundance, of more. And yet this deluge is often perceived as a drought. The sheer quantity of text in the world threatens to erode the value of particular texts, to undermine the authority and integrity of writing as an enterprise.This predicament is not new, though at every moment in the evolution of technology, as words, images, stories, sensations, and distractions pile up around us, it has felt newly and desperately acute. The internet in this respect is not the end of print – or film, or recorded music, or television – but the latest and most powerful extension of an expansionary, viral logic that began when mechanically reproduced texts replaced handwritten manuscripts. We dwell, much as previous generations did and yet more than ever, in a culture of surplus, a condition of perpetual over- stimulation that is at once exciting and disconcerting. The world – which is to say, more and more, the aggregation of our representations of the world – is too much with us, and the sheer abundance of available experience can be paralysing. What am I supposed to watch, to read, to feel, to dream about? What do I want?This state of wondering paralysis cries out for criticism, which promises to sort through the glut, to assist in the formation of choices, to act as gatekeeper to our besieged sensoria. There is only so much time, so much money, so much cognitive space, and we might require help in using it wisely.This is the job of the critic but it is also everyone’s job, and I believe it’s a job we can actually do. I suggest that the effort might begin with the way we address the works that answer our bottomless hunger for meaning and pleasure, and also, simultaneously, with the way we understand our responses to those beautiful, baffling things.We are far too inclined to regard art as an ornament and to perceive taste as a fixed, narrow track along which each one of us travels, alone or in select, like-minded company. Alternatively, we seek to subordinate the creative, pleasurable aspects of our lives to supposedly more consequential matters, pushing the aesthetic dimensions of existence into the boxes that hold our religious beliefs, political dogmas, or moral assumptions. We trivialise art. We venerate nonsense. We can’t see past our own bullshit.Enough of that! It’s the job of art to free our minds, and the task of criticism to figure out what to do with that freedom. That everyone is a critic means, or should mean, that we are each of us capable of thinking against our own prejudices, of balancing scepticism with open-mindedness, of sharpening our dulled and glutted senses and battling the intellectual inertia that surrounds us. We need to put our remarkable minds to use and to pay our own experience the honour of taking it seriously.Better Living Through Criticism is published on 24 March by Jonathan Cape, £14.99. Click here to buy it for £11.99      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pianist András Schiff: ‘I mustn’t assume, whatever the evidence, that he will always be incredible,’ says Fiona Maddocks. Photograph: Hiroyuki Ito/Getty ImagesFiona Maddocks, classical music critic: ‘Criticism is a form of passionate advocacy’Every opera or concert I go to is, for me, a performance. I am wound up, jittery, adrenaline racing. This is surely perverse. I am not on stage. I want no bright lights or applause. The very idea makes me recoil. Instead, I am probably in the stalls in the dark, occasionally scribbling incoherent words like “loud” or “pizzicato” that later, if decipherable, make no sense. When it’s all over I experience a kind of relief.A live art form, made anew each time, is elusive, fragile, exciting, a collaboration between each person there at that moment. The only way I know how to be a good critic is by giving as much of myself as the musicians themselves. This means maximum concentration. They play or sing for hours without let-up. The least I can do is honour them by listening with every fibre of my being. Yes, at times, I fail. That’s infuriating. It’s like letting them down as well the reader – the person who matters most, who wants to know, quite simply, what it was like.It means, too, wiping from my mind that last performance, brilliant or dreadful, by someone else, or even the same person. I mustn’t assume, whatever the evidence, that the pianist András Schiff will always be incredible. Or that a rediscovered “baroque gem” by Mateo Flecha the Elder will be tedious. I need an empty mind, a clean slate. We all prepare differently. I won’t be the one who reads in advance the interview with the director or the novel on which an opera is based. I might check after, if I missed the point or felt tired or disengaged. The vital issue is what happens that night. Does it work? Did it move me? Did it succeed?I always wanted to write. I always wanted to write about music. The two are inseparable. It’s hard to say which came first. I studied music hard through childhood and teens and played with some competence, though not confidence. For many years, I resisted reviewing, feeling ill-equipped to pass judgment. Now I see it’s as much about conveying mood, intention, purpose, joy. Criticism is a form of passionate advocacy.It’s also about being responsible. Failure to me can be very heaven to someone else. Ask why something didn’t work instead of dishing out blame. Show me someone who sets out to do badly.The murderous review has its place. It’s a constant temptation, an easier option than a whole bagful of nuance, and great entertainment (except for those at whom it’s aimed). Whether you resort to it often or just once a season will probably reflect your temperament. When the Observer’s Philip French died last year, having written thousands of film reviews, it was his fairness that won unanimous praise.Recently, I read an article headed “What critics want”. The title struck me as odd. It’s nothing to do with what I want. I have no checklist or expectation, except to engage, on full beam, and report accordingly. If I have a hope it’s only that no one at the interval asks me what I think so far. “I’m waiting until the end” is the dull and prissy-sounding truth. Really, I won’t know until I sit down and write. Then the trouble starts.Rachel Cooke, book critic: ‘Criticism needs to inform and entertain - at its best it’s an art’I think criticism should come – in the beginning, anyway – from a position of love, passion, enthusiasm, whatever you want to call it. It’s only because I care about books that I feel so exasperated, enraged, sometimes, by the fact that many of those that are published aren’t good enough. I don’t set out to review books I know I’ll hate; writers who do this (and editors who encourage them to) should be ashamed of themselves. It’s not only spiteful, it’s lazy. Praising something is quite difficult; slagging something off is relatively easy.The critic’s first duty is not to their peers, pals or editor – it’s to the reader. Criticism needs to inform and entertain. At its best, it’s an art in its own right. It has everything to do with taste – and nothing. But it must be honest, too. This is an issue of trust. Over-praise is of no help to anyone; ultimately, it only kills what it seeks to raise. I hate the cultural inflation that happens around certain writers, certain books; even if it’s born of timidity, a wimpish unwillingness to strike out, I regard it as a form of mendacity. I’m also fed up with reading reviews that are little more than a precis. Summarising something is not the same as criticising it. At its worst, it’s a weird form of plagiarism.Above all, a critic should be kind when they can. Take a book for what it is rather than what you want it to be; review it rather than its author. Publishing a book myself has not made me a better critic but it has made me a less reflexively certain one. So, too, has being married to a novelist. I still write hatchet jobs. Sometimes, there’s nothing else to be done. I’d be lying if I said I didn’t enjoy it. But I also know what writing a book costs, the sweat and pain involved. That said, perhaps some of our most toxic critics know this, too, in their hearts, for their writing often seems to me to be shot through with a particularly debilitating brand of envy.Rowan Moore, architecture critic: ‘I write because I am better at it than designing buildings’Some architecture critics are architects, others are not. I am one of the first kind, having done the seven years’ training, worked in offices, helped set up a practice and designed some buildings. I freely admit that these would not stand up well to the sort of scrutiny that I apply to the work of others. I now write because I am better at it than designing buildings. So it might seem like outrageous cheek to question from time to time the work of more accomplished and achieving professionals.Indeed it is. But critics are not there to legislate by themselves on how everything should be done. Rather they should see things as clearly as they can, from a position informed by knowledge, experience and love of their subject, and express what they see eloquently, engagingly and with emphasis. This perspective is ideally different from that of people enmeshed in practice and, just as the best sports commentators are not always the best ex-players, a critic does not have to be more brilliant at the art form in question than those he or she writes about. AO Scott also calls criticism an art form in its own right. I wouldn’t go so far – let’s call it an artefact.As for the two types of critic, those who haven’t practised can have an enviable freedom and detachment. But I’m glad of the fact that I have some idea of the processes that go into designing a building, and how astonishingly difficult it is to do really well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Surprise releases such as Kendrick Lamar’s Untitled Unmastered present critics with new challenges. Photograph: FilmMagic for OkeechobeeMaura Johnston, pop critic: ‘I want to be that person who is opening doors for listeners’ In the early 00s I started posting to the I Love Music online forum, a haven for critics who, when they weren’t arguing over the minutiae of Madonna videos were figuring out how to buck against a system that prioritised rock and its aesthetics over pop’s pleasures. My fellow posters and I seized happily upon the tools offered by the internet, creating a global network and slowly amassing discographies and reviews, in order to chart a new path. We were criticising not just music, but the basic tenets of its criticism,too.The end result was awkwardly termed “poptimism” - which afforded pop the same critical credibility as rock - and like all terms that gather heat, it’s been warped from pressure on all sides. But it wouldn’t have existed without those early online discussions, which spawned a slew of writers I’m proud to call my colleagues.That said, I’m probably part of the “insta-reviewing” problem that so many critics have been bemoaning in the age of the gotcha surprise album drop - Beyoncé’s self-titled LP, Kendrick Lamar’s Untitled Unmastered. When I worked at the music blog Idolator, one of our regular features was “Leak of the Week”, in which we quickly responded to whatever major album had shown up on torrent sites. Sometimes I got it right; other times, I’d realise that my instant impressions were woefully incorrect.Yet the impetus behind “Leak of the Week still informs my approach to criticism to this day – even when I’m reviewing for those publications that will allow me into print. While part of our motivation was selfish – trying to capitalise on popular search-engine terms —and I cringe now at the tacit endorsement of the music pirates, what my colleagues and I were really doing was creating context for cultural works beyond their filenames. The overwhelmingly context-free crush of online information has made a critic’s role only more crucial; I know for a fact that they can help a listener find out why, say, two songs ascribed to Scritti Politti sound not just years but worlds apart, because I had discovered that when I read Simon Reynolds’s notes on their career. I want to be that person for younger listeners, opening doors that they might have not even noticed while swiping through Spotify on the train.Clare Brennan, theatre critic: ‘A critic now should reflect theatre’s diversity’Interesting to think about criticism in the week I am reviewing Look Back in Anger at Derby theatre - the venue that first rejected the script in 1955. John Osborne’s play went on to be produced at London’s Royal Court the following year, launched a generation of playwrights collectively called “the angry young men”, and marked the Sloane Square theatre out as the place to watch out for exciting new drama. In the programme for the 60th anniversary production, the director Sarah Brigham says: “Who knows what the fortunes of [Derby] theatre may have been if they had accepted it!” You know what? I doubt they would have been affected.Back in the 1950s, national newspaper critics were mostly London focused, covering what the radical director Joan Littlewood called “complacent, well-behaved, middle-class theatre”. Alternative, formally interesting, politically leftist, regional productions received scant critical coverage. London critics responded to Look Back in Anger with strongly worded reviews that attracted the attention of the BBC (whose subsequent broadcast of an extract made both the play and the theatre’s name and fortune). Would it have been so noticed if produced in Derby in 1955? Unlikely.I hope that today a new play premiered in the regions would have a stronger chance of being noticed. For me, one of the main responsibilities of a critic now is to reflect theatre’s diversity: regional variation, formal variety and disparity of subject matter.A review shouldn’t assume a common background or set of interests. Ideally, it should try to: contextualise the piece; give readers a sense of what it was like to be there; weigh up the pros and cons of the production. The reader should be able to respond: I see why you say what you are saying but, given what you have told me about the piece, I disagree - even if they can’t get to the city or village where the play is on. As a critic, I think of myself as one voice in a nationwide, dynamic, endless conversation – place-stage-audience-page-reader-place-stage...