Charlotte McDonald-Gibson’s Cast Away: Stories of Survival from Europe’s Refugee Crisis tells the story of the European Union’s chaotic and mismanaged response to the crisis through the eyes of five people who have arrived on Europe’s shores since 2011. They include Sina (not her real name), an Eritrean woman forced to flee with her husband Dani when she was heavily pregnant. This is her story.2012Dani was unlike anyone Sina had ever met in Eritrea. Here, people tended to keep their thoughts, feelings, talents and any dissenting opinions to themselves. Spies lurked in every classroom, every workplace, sometimes in your own home. People heard rumours that life was similar in North Korea, but at least the rest of the world knew how awful that country was. In Eritrea you just tried to stay under the radar and out of prison.But Dani was the kind of man who could not contain his intelligence, and Sina was smitten from the moment she joined his drawing class in her second year of a chemical engineering degree. Now he was asking Sina to spend the rest of her life with him, and suddenly everything made sense. Optimism seized the young woman. This marriage would be a genuine choice in a society where self-determination was rare. In Eritrea, no one got to make their own decisions about their life. You couldn’t choose where you lived, where you worked, which God you worshipped, which political group you supported, what you owned, or where you travelled. It was all decided by a dictatorship still using two painful wars with neighbouring Ethiopia as an excuse to keep the entire population in perpetual servitude. But Sina could only see the good in the world as she imagined her and Dani’s future together, despite the threat of indefinite military service hanging over the couple.President Isaias Afewerki – a veteran of the independence struggle, who took power when Eritrea became a state in 1993 and never gave it up – introduced compulsory military service for all men and women in 1995, notionally to protect the young state from future threats and promote self-sufficiency. Everyone in the nation of 5 million people would be drafted, starting with gruelling boot camp in the last year of high school, then returning to the ranks upon graduation from school or university. Not completing your service or deserting was one of the many crimes that could get you locked up in the nation’s jail network for an indefinite period of time, or even killed. Never mind that military service could amount to a life sentence of torture, abuse, arbitrary detention and forced labour.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Sina’ and her son, Andonis, in Gothenburg, Sweden, December 2015. Photograph: Sofia SanglofSina thrived at school, and had won a 21-inch flatscreen TV as a reward for coming top of her year in all subjects. That didn’t exempt her from life as a soldier, however, and in her 12th-grade year – at the age of 16 – she was torn away from her family and sent to Sawa. The short, melodic name of the military base belied the fear it inspired in Eritrea’s youth. Stripped of everything they knew, and abused – mentally, physically and, for some female conscripts, sexually – they either broke down with psychological problems they would bear for years to come, or if they were strong enough they quickly adapted to survive. Sina turned out to be a strong one, and for the rest of the year of study and service, her mindset shifted.I am not a student, I am a soldier.In this way she got through it. And after the pain of Sawa, university was a relief. If you had left Eritrea illegally the state could reach outside national borders and drag you back for punishment Chemical engineering was fascinating, friends came easily, her teachers – including Dani – encouraged her, and she got a paid part-time job at a western pharmaceutical company – albeit in  secret as she did not have government permission. Just like in high school, Sina shone at university, receiving her degree with a distinction. After graduation in 2009, the government decided she would be one of the rare few spared from active military duty, and allowed her to practise her profession.For Sina, home would now be a dusty town in northern Eritrea, where she would work as a chemical engineer for a government firm. But she felt blessed: at least she could put her intellect to use working as a supervisor of a small team. Her job was still considered part of her national service, so for working 12-hour days with no breaks she got paid 450 nakfa ($30) a month. Her future husband had not been so fortunate in his career. He was a fully qualified civil engineer and a talented teacher, but had been pulled out of the university when Sina was in her third year and told to report to the barracks for his new life as a soldier. As the year went on, his supervisor became a little more relaxed, and turned a blind eye when Dani started to work part time as a private teacher. The young couple still had to depend on their parents. But when Dani proposed, Sina could imagine a future. Leaving Eritrea never entered her mind.2013After months of excited planning, Sina and Dani’s wedding day finally arrived. They had decided on a traditional Eritrean ceremony, and on 17 July 2013, more than 300 friends and family gathered to watch the young couple exchange their vows. But when Sina glanced around the room, she couldn’t help but notice the absences. Many friends had already fled Eritrea and were living in refugee camps in Sudan and Kenya. Some had travelled further afield to try to escape the long arm of the Eritrean security apparatus. No matter where you went in sub-Saharan Africa, if you had left Eritrea illegally the state could reach well outside national borders and drag you back for a cruel punishment. Security forces in at least four countries had colluded in the forced repatriation of Eritreans, so many people had decided to try and reach Europe, the only place where they would feel safe. Not that Sina would ever discuss these disappearances. That alone could be enough to be thrown into a cell. The most brutal retribution was reserved for those the government deemed traitors. A simple slip-up like asking the wrong person about a missing friend or discussing general government policy could be enough to warrant the accusation of betraying your country. Other “crimes” included practising a banned religion, plotting to leave the country, wandering too close to an external border, working for a foreign company, or simply being related to someone suspected of deviant behaviour. Inside Eritrea: conscription and poverty drive exodus from secretive African state Given the number of people President Afewerki was locking away, there was a need for creativity when it came to the logistics of incarceration. The official prisons were supplemented with secret facilities that included caves, holes, open-air camps and converted old buildings. A particularly horrific innovation was the underground dungeon, a metal shipping container measuring 20ft by 8ft buried in the desert. No light could seep in, temperatures reached 44C, and screams would echo around the metal box, the sound unable to penetrate the soil above.Conditions in all facilities were inhuman, with inmates crammed into small spaces with no toilets, forced to sleep in their own waste. Sickness was common, and many people died of illness. Others took their own lives.Imprisonment was an everyday occurrence – everyone knew someone who had disappeared – and that was exactly how the regime wanted it. Fear was its most powerful weapon, and it sowed it with expertise.So deserting was not an option for Dani. Instead, the couple decided to ask the military to transfer Dani to a post near Sina’s office in the north of the country. The request was turned down. Dani’s supervisor had another plan for him. He was to be sent 500km south of Asmara to take up his new post as a guard on the border with the neighbouring nation of Djibouti.Sina and Dani spent just two and a half precious months together as man and wife before Dani boarded a bus down to the southern city of Assab. There he would spend his days standing in the desert heat on the sun-baked southern plains of Eritrea, notionally keeping watch to prevent some of the tens of thousands of border jumpers escaping to Djibouti and other neighbouring countries.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A photograph from the day of the disaster showing the extent of the shipwreck. Photograph: Anadolu Agency2014Sina and Dani tried so hard to play by Eritrea’s arbitrary rules, but it wasn’t enough. After a few months at the border, Dani disappeared. It was only when he contracted an intestinal disorder in the filth and misery of his jail cell and was transported to Asmara for medical treatment that Sina learned what had happened.Although Dani was an Orthodox Christian, some of his friends were Pentecostal – a banned religion in Eritrea – and one evening they were holding a prayer meeting in a room in the building where Dani lived. Someone tipped off the military police, and every person living in the building was arrested and thrown in jail, no matter what religion they practised.When Dani’s treatment at the Asmara hospital ended in early summer 2014, he walked out the door and home to his wife.With limited resources and plenty of deserters to worry about, it would take a few months for the authorities in the south to realise that Dani was missing. Sina was determined to enjoy that time together, and for a while they were able to live under the illusion that they were just like any other young couple in the world.They could enjoy long walks together again, meals in Asmara’s restaurants, time spent with their brothers, sisters, cousins and parents. One day in August, Dani and Sina went to the clinic together. The doctor smiled. They were expecting a baby. It was a bittersweet moment. Happiness at the growing life was tempered by all the problems they would have to overcome to be able to give their baby a safe and secure home.It was the summer of 2014. Their baby was due on 15 April the following year. They had nine months to try to make a future worthy of the tiny life they had created. But every moment of joy was overshadowed by fear. The military police had finally started to look for Dani. If he returned to prison, he would never be released, and Sina would have to bring up their child alone. She too could be jailed for aiding a deserter. Going on the run was their only choice.  When Antonis reached the wreck, the water was slick with oil and wood 2015Their smuggler had driven them with relative ease through the border to Sudan and on to South Sudan, but the only way across the border to Uganda was on foot. Sina didn’t complain. All those marches during military service and the hardships of life in the field as a chemical engineer had prepared her well, and she followed Dani and the smuggler through thick forest tracts for two hours. When they reached Uganda, she gratefully sank into the car that would take them to the capital.Sina and Dani contacted a smuggler called Kibrat. For $14,000, he would prepare everything for their passage to Turkey, but he warned it could take a while. The weeks passed, and Sina’s belly grew. After two months, Kibrat called. Their fake passports were ready, and the couple could continue their journey and fly to Istanbul that coming Sunday – 16 March. His call came just in time: Sina was eight months pregnant and starting to worry that she would never reach a safe place in time to give birth.Then on Saturday, Kibrat called back. There had been a change of plan. Sina would have to fly alone and Dani would follow a few days later. “You have to go now,” he said. “You are pregnant, and very pregnant people can’t fly.”His advice seemed to make sense, so on Sunday morning Dani and Sina got into a car to go to the airport. Just before the passenger drop-off point, Kibrat pulled over – Sina had to enter the airport alone. The couple held each other by the roadside.“Take care of yourself,” Dani said.Sina just smiled – she would see him again in a few days. Her car was waiting.When she landed, an Eritrean smuggler called Mehari was waiting for her at the airport. For a week, Sina stayed in Mehari’s filthy apartment waiting for Dani.But Dani never came.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rescued migrants wait in the coastguard’s office in Rhodes. Photograph: Yorgos Karahalis/APKibrat had stopped answering his phone. After a week, his number was disconnected. He had disappeared with the money, and Dani was left alone and penniless in Kampala, just a voice at the end of the phone promising Sina he was doing everything he could to get back to her. Within a week, the promise of their new life together which had begun with such hope on New Year’s Day was beginning to collapse.When Mehari arrived at the apartment in Istanbul on 19 April and told her to get ready to travel to Greece, Sina was terrified. She was past her due date and feared going into labour at sea, but Mehari was aggressive and left her with no choice.When Sina looked out to sea [having arrived by bus at the Turkish port of Marmaris], she saw a wooden sailing boat about 30 metres long approach the beach. For a moment, she could not speak – it looked so old, its naked masts reaching into the darkness and rocking the boat back and forth in the low swell.Mehari promised that a large ship with lifejackets was waiting just offshore, so Sina stepped aboard. Perhaps in her heart Sina always knew there was not going to be another ship. She had to believe the lie to get on the boat, as there was no one to accompany her on a two-hour trek back over the hills to the nearest road, to drive her for 10 hours back to Istanbul, and to give her a place to stay and to look after her when the child arrived.When they cast off, Sina looked around her: people were doubled over and vomiting in response to the violent rocking and the stink of rotten fish. As the boat tipped from side to side, the bodies crammed in the small space would skid in the stagnant water and the sick, and the stench was overwhelming. Sina put her hands over her face, blocking out the sight, the sounds, the smell.If I start to vomit, I will deliver my baby here.All she could do was focus on keeping her baby inside her for a few hours more.The Journey: A refugee's odyssey from Syria to Sweden Eventually, the flickering bulb that threw ghoulish shadows across the decaying wood went out. Darkness enveloped the hold just as people started to notice the seawater seeping through the planks. Sina put her hand to the floor. Cold water pooled around the tyre where she sat. One after another the passengers realised that calamity was approaching, and cries of terror spread back and forth through the throng of people, an anguished call and response.We are almost dead, Sina thought.The sailing boat was disintegrating beneath her feet: it had been ripped in two when it had attempted to turn at speed in the rough conditions. Huge waves tore parts of the boat away, and all Sina could hear was the sound of splintering wood – a racking, shuddering sound – and the cries of the people flinging themselves into the water. The coast was in sight, but it didn’t matter now. Sina grabbed on to a rope dangling by her hand, and thought of Dani. Sina looked out to sea and felt the wood beneath her feet give way and slide into the water, taking her with it. First she went down, then up again, desperately trying to keep hold of the slippery rope. Then there was nothing to hold on to any more. She was in the water. Sina heard a voice. “Please help us, we have a nine-month-pregnant woman, help her, she is here.” Then everything went black.Antonis Deligiorgis, a sergeant in the Greek army, had just dropped his six-year-old son and 12-year-old daughter off at school and was having a coffee by Zefiros beach on the Greek island of Rhodes. His eyes lazily drifted over the brilliant blue of the Mediterranean, a little rough that day but still beautiful in the early spring sunshine. He had seen plenty of suffering that year: Antonis had worked night-time rescues, saving people from the fragile inflatable dinghies to which they had entrusted their lives. But on 20 April at 9.30am, he was off duty, and enjoying spending time with his wife.He didn’t see the tall sailing ship that had swerved in a tight turn to avoid the rocks on approach to Zefiros, the force of the manoeuvre snapping the craft in the middle. But by the time the sirens grew louder and crowds had gathered on the port, he was up and ready to do what he could. “Whoever is a good swimmer can help,” a passing police officer shouted.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greek army sergeant Antonis Deligiorgis is awarded the Cross of Excellency for his role in the rescue. Photograph: APWhen Antonis reached the wreck, the water was slick with oil and wood, and all around him screams battled to be heard over the roar of the waves. He saw wild eyes filled with terror; he saw panicked people vomiting into the water, their bodies trying to process the exhaustion, the mouthfuls of seawater, the fear of death. One by one, Antonis grabbed thrashing bodies and dragged them through the water to the shore: children, women, an old man missing a leg.A heavily pregnant woman clung to a life jacket. She was close to the rocks, and her exhausted eyes darted with fear as she tried to battle the swell dragging her towards sharp crags. The waves had already churned up the wood and glass from the broken boat and ground them into her flesh. Antonis reached Sina just in time, pushing her into the arms of two men on the shore. “Thank you, thank you,” Sina repeated over and over again, “you are saving my life.”Ninety-three Eritreans and Syrians were rescued that day, but Antonis remembered the ones who were lost. Most people had survived because the boat broke up in daylight within yards of the Greek coastline, but three people perished: a Syrian man who died of a heart attack, and an Eritrean woman and her six-year-old son. Sina was taken to the hospital in Rhodes, where she was treated for cuts all over her body. Doctors kept her under observation for a couple of days while her body regained its strength, then took her to the operating theatre for a caesarean section. On 23 April, Sina gave birth to a healthy baby boy. Andonis Georgis – named after his saviour – was born at 9pm weighing 4.5kg, strong like his mother and destined to keep her going through the days ahead.On 20 July, Dani finally left Kampala and went with a smuggler back through South Sudan and into Sudan, renting a hotel room in Khartoum. He called the next day from the Sudanese capital, and told Sina that he had an appointment with the Greek embassy there in a few days’ time. Soon they would be together again, and he would be able to hold his son in his arms for the first time.On the morning of Sunday 26 July, Sina got up [by now in Athens], fed Andonis and went for breakfast in the hotel restaurant. Just like they did every other morning, many of the regular guests asked after Dani. They were so used to seeing this cheerful young woman tending her baby with one hand and clutching her mobile phone in the other, chatting away to her husband as if he were right there beside her.But that morning, Sina was not her usual sunny self. She had not spoken to Dani in five days. The last news she had had from him was on 21 July, when he had arrived in Khartoum and called to say he had an appointment at the Greek embassy. Then there was silence. His phone just rang and rang.Sina now lives with Andonis, near Gothenburg, Sweden. She is still waiting for her refugee papers. This is an edited extract from Cast Away: Stories of Survival from Europe’s Refugee Crisis (Portobello Books £14.99). Click here to order a copy for £11.99