There’s a huge box of CDs shoved under my childhood bed at my parents’ house. There are scratched copies of The Queen Is Dead, Unknown Pleasures, Turn On the Bright Lights, and anything else that might have been mentioned in NME and Q Magazine from 2000–2006. White, male, with six strings: I owned it.A testing year for Australia's social cohesion as multiculturalism debate grows louder I grew up in Minchinbury, a sneeze away from Mount Druitt in Sydney’s outer west. My parents picked out their neat brick one-storey from Homeworld, where house parts are plucked from a catalogue and clicked together like Lego. It was the first home they had owned outright, after settling in Sydney and jumping around a few rentals. They escaped Vietnam after the war via boat. They were at sea for a few days before being picked up by a German oil tanker and taken to a refugee camp in the Philippines for 18 months before coming to Australia.That’s the story I wheel out when someone wants to hear the exotic answer to, “Where did you come from?” The plainer truth is that I was born in Canterbury hospital in 1985.Our house sat snugly between the houses of my aunty and my grandparents. We’d bought three patches of land and three houses to match: all in a row. We cut gates into the back fences so that we could run back and forth and see each other all the time, and I saw them, and it – my glaring Vietnamese-ness – all the time. BBQs wouldn’t include sausages and white bread, but duck freshly slaughtered in the yard, smelly fish sauce marinades and pickled daikon and carrot. I was slowly drowning under the embarrassment of being so Asian.Mum could usually be found listening to traditional Cải lương (a piercing, whiny form of Vietnamese folk opera) paired with plucky đàn tranh (Vietnamese zither) that I couldn’t stand. I’d listen to my Walkman instead, jammed with tapes I’d made by recording my favourite songs off the radio.Headphones pulled on, I’d ride around the backyard in circles, because I wasn’t allowed to go anywhere else (“What if you get kidnapped? Or run over by a car? Or run over by a car while getting kidnapped?”). It was a listless circle of strict Vietnamese values: study hard, be a good girl, and be quiet.These days I’ll spend my time browsing racialicious.com and chilling out to intersectional theory, but I was a long way from that point in 1999. I was just about 15 and devouring Naomi Klein’s No Logo, and exploring other more alt-mainstream forms of oppression. In all my corporation-bashing indignation, I hadn’t gotten to the point of realising I was my own cultural prison.When I was 15 I discovered guitars. I’d tape Rage overnight and watch videos of New Order and Radiohead and the Strokes that placed me squarely in Manchester, or New York City, or anywhere but here, really. Most people wanted a car the minute they turned 16, but I knew my CD collection could take me anywhere I wanted to go.I’d spend hours studying magazines and CD sleeves, staring at photos of bands full of beautiful, ghostly white males, devouring them through magazines and music and videos – big dicks and even bigger instruments. Here was my escape. Here was the template for success. Here is how I could smother my otherness. Holy Mary, Mother of God, please just let me be the same as everyone else.What is the best music to listen to while reading? I wasn’t one of those Asian girls – all dainty with long hair, cute sundresses and soft giggles. I was too smart for that. I was elevated. I used white male cultural aesthetics to prove my superiority over my otherness. My accent was as broad as all the other westies, and I was at the Hopetoun every weekend swilling beer in ripped jeans with a cool girl attitude. Everything I consumed was white – the whiter, the better.Thank god I’ve got a bit of culture in me. We talk about racism in loud and brash terms. “Go back to where you came from,” scrawled on walls, or people spitting out, “Fucking chinks” in the street. But some of the most oppressive racism is internalised. The biggest trick the devil played was teaching people of colour to be their own oppressors.Then a funny thing happens. You get older. You care less. You migrate from the front row at a gig to, “That’ll do.” Taste in music isn’t the be all and end all. Your parents become your friends. You gain some perspective.I used to tell myself that the key to finding internal happiness was by cultural assimilation. That assimilation meant success: success in cultural currency, in dispelling my Vietnamese diaspora, in shunning what a Vietnamese woman is meant to be.Now? I still love the Stone Roses and the Smiths, but the hero worship is gone. There’s a Buzzfeed article with the headline: “Can You Identify This Band Full of White Guys?” Yeah. Same. And so I’ll cradle a beer at a show, hanging in the middle of the crowd somewhere: watching. Maybe there are two guitarists or just the one. Maybe it’s more psych or dolewave or kraut or punk or whatever, but it’s all the same really – a monolith of scrawny anglo-masculine posturing.Thank god I’ve got a bit of culture in me.Tempered, a journal about backwater Australian music, is out now