Long Lost Family: What Happened Next9pm, ITVKleenex multipack at the ready as Davina McCall and Nicky Campbell begin a new series of sensitive, life-affirming updates on the relations they’ve helped to reunite over the years. First up, Cliff and Sue, who applied separately to the programme looking for their respective birth mothers, and were subsequently revealed to be half-siblings. Also revisited are Ron Williams and sister Christine, who came together again after more than 60 years. Hannah J DaviesEurovision Song Contest Semi-Finals8pm, BBC4Anyone have a hunch that, once again, this might not be the UK’s year? Clearly, we should be sending Brexit-curious Morrissey – who did, after all, once express an interest – to reap the bitter harvest of his careless Eurosceptic words. But with that seductive option seemingly not on the table, Mel Giedroyc and Scott Mills will be chatting to the UK’s nominated lamb to the slaughter, Lucie Jones, as 18 acts fight for slots in the final. Phil HarrisonSecond Chance Summer: Tuscany9pm, BBC2The group came as strangers, but over the summer they’ve learned to run a restaurant, harvest grapes and make olive oil. Of course, they’ve had their ups and downs. Two months later they’ve reached their last few days, and it’s time to reflect on their time at La Banditaccia farm. Against beautiful scenery and low sunlight, will anyone decide to stay in Italy or will they all rush to get the next plane home? Hannah VerdierOne Born Every Minute9pm, Channel 4Another dispatch from Liverpool Women’s Hospital: there’s little sign that the drama of humans going through childbirth is ever going to get old. This week, first-time mother Natasha tries to cope with losing control of her body, while Erika’s labour is informed by the struggle to conceive that preceded it. Also at the end of a long, hard road is Emma, whose cancer scare inspired her to take drastic action to improve her chances of becoming a mum.Jack Seale Later Live – with Jools Holland10pm, BBC2      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Japandroids will appear on Later Live - with Jules Holland Photograph: Camilo ChristenDespite its reputation as a chummy jamfest, Later’s recent triumphs – Christine and the Queens, Skepta, Sleaford Mods – have come from inorganic, electronic performers. Stormzy, accompanied only by a DJ and his charisma, gave a similarly strong showing; now the world has come round to his way of thinking, he’s back. Other turns tonight include Japandroids, a furious duo with something of Hüsker Dü about them. John RobinsonThe South Bank Show10pm, Sky ArtsJames M Cain’s novel The Postman Always Rings Twice has been staged or filmed a dozen times – notably by Luchino Visconti with his 1943 neo-realist noir Ossessione. In the first of a new series of The South Bank Show, the venerable Melvyn Bragg talks to Jude Law and director Ivo van Hove about their current Barbican adaptation, starring Law as the handsome drifter who embarks on a murderous love triangle at a roadside gas station. Ali CatterallRosewood8pm, AlibiRemember Quincy? Jack Klugman as a crinkly coroner who loved solving murders and romancing ladies? This slick drama stars Morris Chestnut as the very Quincyesque Dr Beaumont Rosewood Jr, a freelance pathologist who screeches up to crime scenes in his sunburst-yellow 1968 Pontiac GTO just to get a rise out of his on-off Miami PD partner Villa. Season two begins with a new cop captain looking to spoil Rosewood and Villa’s sexy, forensic fun. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceI, Robot (Alex Proyas, 2004) 6.50pm, Film4Isaac Asimov’s sci-fi classic provides only the title and basic premise for this frenetic, inventively staged action movie. Will Smith stars as a cop in Chicago, 2035, who finds his worst fears realised when the robots turn on the humans they were programmed to protect. The robots themselves – smoothly metallic and blank-faced – are extremely threatening and it’s all handled with panache by director Alex Proyas.Live sportCycling: Giro d’Italia 12noon, Eurosport 1 The fourth stage of the race, from Cefalu to Etna.IPL Cricket: Kings XI Punjab v Kolkata Knight Riders 3pm, Sky Sports 2 More high-octane T20 action from India.Champions League Football: Juventus v Monaco 7pm, BT Sport 2 The second leg of the semi-final clash.