The last week of August is always a time of nostalgia, when the temperature drops and the new school year looms and one feels obliged to sit up slightly straighter. In New York this year that effect has been amplified by the image of Winona Ryder on the sides of buses and subway walls, as she promotes Stranger Things, her comeback sci-fi adventure set in the 1980s, the entirety of which I binged in two days. If the past is a foreign country, then this week has seen nostalgia and homesickness collide in such a way that I’ve barely been able to move from the sofa.Stranger Things review – a spooky shot of 80s nostalgia straight to your heart The appeal of Stranger Things is not only in the Where’s Wally-style exercise of finding all the show’s meta-references to 80s TV and movies, but in marvelling at one’s own capacity to get sentimental about things just by virtue of distance. It’s one thing to get a warm glow from the sight of walkie-talkies, or Dungeons & Dragons, or boys with asymmetrical hair throwing fake karate moves at each other, and quite another to lament the passing of an era in which 10-year-olds could ride home alone down dark lanes or run through woods chased by assailants, unconstrained by the fussy demands of modern parenting. And yet the show triggers nostalgia for all these things.The ultimate test of this impulse is Ryder herself, whose early movies I never liked and who I always thought – an opinion I knew to be 100% wrong for someone of my generation to hold – couldn’t act. But even Winona, in her bad wig and alternating two facial expressions (frowny and sad, or screamy and mad, but either way always on the brink of fresh tears), struck me as poignant – and by the end of the series I was ready to pack up and move back to 1984.Meanwhile, homesickness for modern Britain peaked last week when I received a communication from the British tax authorities and, for a second, found myself thinking, “Oh, HMRC, how sweet and nice you are compared to your American equivalents, the lethal overlords of the IRS.” This is the kind of dangerous late-August thinking that can lead a person to buy union flag cushions or vote to leave the EU. Thank God it’s September.On the magical ladderMagical thinking is, generally, something one associates more with the American than the British self-image. I was in the elevator of my building this week with a woman and four firemen on a non-urgent call. The woman turned to them and, lowering her voice, said: “Is it true what they’re saying about Zika?” There was, she said, a rumour going around that the authorities were suppressing news that 500 new cases of the Zika virus had been found in New York, something the firemen scoffed at – not because they thought it wasn’t true, but at the idea that they, the guys from Ladder 35, would be in on it if it were. It was taken as a matter of course that, as Don DeLillo famously wrote, history is the “sum total of the things they aren’t telling us”.Our doomed narrative      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   L’Allegro, Il Penseroso, ed il Moderato by Mark Morris. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianI went to the ballet at the weekend, something I don’t normally do, but to my surprise I enjoyed it. It was a series of pieces by the Mark Morris Dance Group, beautifully set to Mozart as part of the Lincoln Center’s Mozart Festival. What interested me most, however, was what my brain did during the performance. The need to map a narrative on to even the most abstract art form is hard to resist and as the dancers flew across the stage, I couldn’t help thinking why are those two men arresting the third man? Is that woman the man’s lover or is she trying to pull him from a river? When they do that thing with their arms, are they pretending to be the falling pieces in Tetris? If we can’t find a pattern, we’re doomed.