Planet Earth II is a breathtaking achievement. In terms of access, technology and spectacle, this series is second to none. No other show has managed to capture the natural world’s majesty and savagery quite this vividly.Just think of all the big showstopper sequences we’ve already seen. The racer snakes teeming out of rocks to consume iguana hatchlings. The golden eagle plunging across the mountains and landing with a smack powerful enough to terrify its rivals. The jaguar overcoming a caiman. These are the sequences that define life on Earth, the sequences in which we supposedly see ourselves most clearly.Except they’re not. Last night’s jungles episode contained moments that were nothing less than awe-inspiring. The birds-of-paradise were hypnotic, the indri heartbreaking. The entire rainfall sequence should be shown on loop on 4K demonstration stands forever.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A breathtaking achievement … the rainfall sequence should be shown on loop on 4K demonstration stands forever. Photograph: BBCAnd yet, the creature I most connected with was the one overshadowed by its showier brethren; the capybara. Worthy of headlines itself – they are the biggest rodents in the world, and they eat their own poo – last night they were reduced to the role of casual bystander. In scene after scene, you’d see them ambling on the peripheries, staring off blankly into nothing, oblivious to the predators conspiring to bring them to their end. They were fodder, plain and simple. They were redshirts, supporting players drafted in to to make the stars shine brighter.It makes sense that the capybara weren’t given more time. After all, they don’t exactly fit with the broader awestruck tone of Planet Earth – it’s hard to follow, say, groundbreaking footage of a spectacular snow leopard fight with a short interlude where a massive guinea pig gnaws on a turd – but they, and armfuls of other B-list animals like them, are the secret engine room of Planet Earth II.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Almost every animal has a role to fill. Not the marmots though – they were there, in the bear sequence, to wrongfoot the audience. Photograph: BBCLast week, it was marmots. Almost every other animal onscreen in the mountains episode had an important role to fill. They were demonstrating new behaviours, or illustrating the precariousness of existence. Not the marmots, though. They were there, in the bear sequence, solely to wrongfoot the audience. As they gazed disinterestedly towards the horizon, there was a flicker of an assumption that a bear would lunge at them to sate its primal hunger. But, no, instead the bears went off and pole-danced against a tree and that was the show instead. Bye, marmots. Maybe stay for coffee next time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The crab that picked on the iguana’s back, purely to provide a speck of sunshine before the showstopper scene. Photograph: BBCThe crab that picked on the iguana’s back, purely to provide a speck of sunshine before the iguana’s infants were consumed alive by snakes. The long-necked Madagascan insect, glimpsed so briefly that Attenborough didn’t even name it, such was his hurry to pelt off and show us another stomach-churning display of innards and cruelty. Forget the bears and penguins and pumas and spider monkeys; it’s these thankless backroom schleppers who really carry the show. They’re window-dressing, yes, but important window dressing.New behaviour is distracting and abstract. If Planet Earth II consisted of nothing but miraculous creatures defying existing scientific knowledge, it would be left twisting in the wind with nothing to ground it. Because, yes, life is beautiful and wonderful and dangerous. But for the most part, it’s also eye-wateringly dull. What could the capybara possibly have to look forward to? Five years of munching on their own dung before they’re picked off by a jaguar, that’s what. Their lives are a long flat plane of nothing, and that’s why we can relate to them. It’s because we are capybara, and the capybara are us.