Alexis Taylor looks at the grand piano in front of us, and weighs up what makes it so special.“I like the fact it’s all laid out, you can see what you’re going to play, and yet you can still find new combinations of notes that surprise you,” he decides. “It can feel like this thing that’s pretty linear, but it can be full of mystery, too.”Taylor remembers vividly the first time he was made aware of the instrument’s power.“I was about five and my dad was playing Woman by John Lennon [on the piano]. My parents had broken up a year before, and I just found it overwhelming. It was the first time I’d ever cried to music. I didn’t like the fact he could just sit there casually and have this effect on me.”Right now, the Hot Chip frontman is having what I can only assume is an equally emotional experience: sitting at a piano with me while I try to play him some jazz (I figured every musician’s dream, surely, is that an interviewer might one day turn up with their own book of introductory etudes to have a crack at) and he demonstrates some of the working methods that have gone into his second solo album – 10 songs that feature nothing more than his voice and piano backing.In a branding approach that even Ronseal might consider a little basic, it’s called Piano, which certainly speaks to its stripped-back qualities – there’s no showboating here, no dousing the piano in petrol and setting it alight or installing a sandpit in his home studio (“Although, if I did, my daughter would be happy, because she loves to play … in sand”). Rather, it’s a minimalist, late-night approach that showcases Taylor’s little-boy-lost voice, and the torment at the heart of some of his compositions that he says is often overlooked.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alexis Taylor: ‘It can be full of mystery.’ Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianTaylor has played the piano since he was seven, taking lessons for a while before skipping the formalities and learning by ear (when I play the opening bars of Aphex Twin’s Avril 14th, he mimics an approximation of it back to me, which is both impressive and disheartening given that it took me weeks to learn). Taylor says the lessons were a help and a hindrance – at one point, he realised he was writing more interesting songs on the guitar because he wasn’t held back by knowing the “correct” way to play. But the piano has helped birth many of his compositions, including Hot Chip songs such as Made in the Dark, Always Been Your Love and So Much Further To Go, which gets a stripped-back reimagining here.He has described Piano as “a sort of gospel record – albeit an atheist’s gospel album” and there’s an undeniably soulful side to it. “If you strip away the strings and the production from soul records, like an Al Green song or something, the chords underneath are what I’m getting at,” he says. “Not that my record sounds like [Al Green], but the leap between what I’ve done and a great soul record doesn’t seem that odd to me.”The stark arrangements mean that Taylor’s voice is thrust centrestage – it’s a beautiful, forlorn little thing, but a fragile, faltering one, too. Was he comfortable with making it so prominent?“I think of it as the voice that I have, so I don’t have a way around it,” he says, smiling. “When I first started singing, I remember people would hear a record and say, ‘Who’s the singer, who is she?’ So I like that it’s unusual. In terms of hitting the notes, it’s not the most perfect voice, but some of the people I like, such as Chet Baker, have voices that aren’t full of gravel or grit either.”We talk about pianist influences, and, as befits a vinyl obsessive, Taylor’s choices are pleasingly eclectic and niche. He raves about Plush’s cult album More You Becomes You – “probably the biggest influence on me wanting to make a piano record, I used to listen to it over and over” – and decides his favourite pianist is the photographer William Eggleston, who prods each key methodically while ranging across the octaves (“I would love it if he recorded an album”). He also praises the way David Grubbs would play piano chords that “shouldn’t work” on Palace Music’s Arise Therefore, then stabs some discordant combinations on the piano to demonstrate how it inspired him to think about using chord patterns he wouldn’t normally approach. None of these artists are his most obscure influence, however.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frontman … with Hot Chip in 2012. Photograph: Gaelle Beri/Redferns via Getty Images“My cat wakes me up in the morning by getting down off the piano in my music room,” he says, demonstrating a roll of random notes. “I really like the kinds of chords he plays – as pretentious as it sounds, I do genuinely try and work out what he’s played. There was even a song for this album that I think Puddy played the intro to originally, although it didn’t quite make it on to the tracklisting.”Puddy’s music career may be on ice, but other songwriters had more luck: there are covers of Darrell Glenn’s Crying in the Chapel and Crystal Gale’s Don’t It Make My Brown Eyes Blue here.“I remember my mum listening to [Don’t It Make My Brown Eyes Blue] on long car journeys,” Taylor says. “That was around the time my parents split. She was listening to these straightforward heartbreak songs, and I don’t think I would have thought of playing that if I hadn’t heard it as a kid.”These formative childhood experiences led to the inclusion of a stripped-back version of Repair Man, which Taylor co-wrote with Scritti Politti’s Green Gartside for About Group’s 2011 album Start and Complete. Part of the song’s lyrics reference that life-changing moment when Taylor heard his father playing Woman and realised how moving music could be.“I’ve never actually told him that story,” realises Taylor as we carry on tinkling away together. “I guess he’s clearly an influence on me ending up playing the piano.”He sounds reflective, almost as if these thoughts have only just occurred to him, now, as we are sat at a piano, and the mysteries are all laid out in front of us.