How do you listen to music most often? I love to listen with my noise-cancelling headphones. What was the first ever record or CD you bought? A tape of Janet Jackson’s Rhythm Nation 1814. I’m a child of the 80s.What was the last piece of music you bought? Elektra. Both the score and the recording with Varnay and Rysanek. I love dark and twisty Strauss.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What’s your musical guilty pleasure?Dubstep hands down. So much fun to dance to! If you found yourself with six months free to learn a new instrument, what would you choose?I’ve always been interested in the glass armonica. They used it in a Lucia di Lammermoor recording I heard and I fell in love with how spooky it is. I also have a CD of Christmas carols with the glass armonica. Is applauding between movements acceptable?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Marjorie Owens sings Casta Diva from Bellini’s Norma.No. But if I’m the one onstage singing, the last thing I’m going to do is hold it against you. I’m a soprano. If you don’t clap for me, a fairy dies. What’s been your most memorable live music experience as an audience member?I went to a drag show when I was 16 and visiting New York. Her name is Shequida and she sang at Lucky Cheng’s in the East Village. I’d never heard a voice like that before. She sang Suicidio from La Gioconda and I was in love!We’re giving you a time machine: what period, or moment in musical history, would you travel to and why? The 1950s. I could see both Ella Fitzgerald and Maria Callas in their prime.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald at Mr Kelly’s nightclub, Chicago, Illinois, 1958. Photograph: Yale Joel/Time & Life Pictures/Getty ImagesDo you enjoy musicals? Do you have a favourite?I love them – there is no favourite. Les Misérables, Rent, Miss Saigon, Avenue Q … all marvellous! Most recently, my best friend and I went to The Book of Mormon and won the ticket lottery so enjoyed front row seats.Which conductor or performer of yesteryear do you most wish you could have worked with? I would’ve loved to have sung Fliegende Holländer with George London. And let’s please toss in James King as Eric.What do you sing in the shower? I listen to nightly talk shows in the shower. Currently I’m on a Stephen Colbert kick.It’s late, you’ve had a few beers, you’re in a karaoke bar. What do you choose to sing? My husband can back me up on this – I always choose Sabotage by the Beastie Boys. He was horrified the first time I did it, but now he loves it!• Marjorie Owens sings the title role in Norma in English National Opera’s new production from 17 February to 11 March.