Zhala – Slippin’ AroundPansy: I think Zhala is the artist we are most excited to see live this year. Her sound is so eclectic – both dancy and spiritual, perfectly representing the breadth and diversity of performers we have at the festival this year. Plus, the fact she is the only other act signed to on Robyn’s Konichiwa Records earns her extra cool points.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Zhala perform Slippin AroundMykki Blanco - Angggry ByrdzScout: By now, we’ve all seen the new and incredibly powerful video from Mykki for High School Never Dies, but I wanted to come up with something a bit more festival-ready. I really hope he performs this song because we can’t wait to grind up on the cuties next to us during this drop. Mykki is such an ecstatic performer and always brings it 100%.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Mykki Blanco’s Angggry ByrdzPeaches – How You Like My Cut?Pansy: We would be totally remiss if we didn’t mention Peaches. She was our surprise headliner last year and totally stole the show dropping cuts from her new album that hadn’t even been released at that point. Peaches has always been a fervent supporter of the queer music scene in Berlin and was a main inspiration for us when we were conceptualising the festival. One of the many things about Peaches that we admire is her sense of community. I think this really shows on the video for this track. She is all about presenting an alternative mix of people who would normally be overlooked. Showcasing them in a light that is both positive and inclusive and that is definitely what we are all about … plus I mean, come on … that bassline. Peaches rocks. Period.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Peaches’ How You Like My Cut?Le1f – Umami/Water The festival is about people from different backgrounds coming together and dancing it all out Scout: Le1f is an innovator – a truly one-of-a-kind performer. His late-night performance on Saturday night at Postbahnhof is certainly going to go off. He’s going to be bringing the New York flavour alongside the girls from Bushwig NYC and Will Sheridan. This track written about NYC legend Juliana Huxtable.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Umami/Water by Le1fAnohni – Drone Bomb MePansy: Anohni’s new album Hopelessmess has constantly been on repeat in recent weeks. It is a moving, thought-provoking but perfectly formed pop gem that will continue to influence us for many years to come. It’s dancy and meditative, but still delivers the pure-political poetry from Anohni of days past.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Drone Bomb Me by AnohniHi Fashion – Where is the Party?Scout: We love these guys so much. We had them last year and we’re having them again this year because they truly represent what the festival is all about for us. People from different backgrounds coming together and dancing it all out. Last year they were at almost every show, always in the crowd dancing together with new friends with huge smiles and great energy.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Hi Fashion’s video for Where is the Party?Yo! Sissy music festival takes place in Berlin, 29-30 July 