Sitting in the refined calm of a panelled room at Imran Mahmood’s chambers in Middle Temple in London, the insistent voice that animates his first novel, You Don’t Know Me, seems very remote. The barrister’s debut puts the reader in the jury box at a murder trial, as a young, black man from a south London estate sacks the QC who has been defending him and embarks on a marathon closing speech, upending four weeks of evidence.“You know, part of me thought if I told my speech myself then at least you get to feel a little bit of what it is like to be me,” Mahmood’s unnamed narrator tells the jury. “That if my QC did it then maybe you would all be thinking, ‘Yeah, it’s all very well to put it over all shiny and slick but that fucker’s still a murderer.’ And I really did think that if I told my own story I could make you feel my life. But actually explaining the evidences is out loud is proper hard.”Mahmood forged the novel’s inner-city accent from a mixture of the clients he has been defending in court for 25 years. “It’s an alloy, an amalgam of the people I speak to,” he says. “There is this urgent quality to their dialogue and I’ve always had an ear for it, an interest in it.”With his precise diction and elegant charcoal suit, Mahmood may seem an unlikely conduit for a voice from the streets, but he’s a long way from the central-casting caricature of a privileged, public-school-educated barrister. Born in Liverpool in 1969 to first-generation immigrants from Pakistan, he downplays the challenges of starting at the bar for a comprehensive-educated, working-class British Asian from the north of England during the early 1990s.“There was quite a steep learning curve,” he says. “You had to attend a certain number of dinners in order to qualify, but in a way that was the easy part because it was fairly formulaic, you knew what you were doing. The more difficult bit was just getting a feel for what the world was like here, and it was very different from the world I grew up in.”The world of You Don’t Know Me is very different again. Mahmood’s unnamed defendant takes the jury on a rollercoaster ride through London gang culture, spinning a story of how his girlfriend’s mysterious disappearance put him in the sights of a notorious north London crew called Glockz. While the narrator insists that he’s not a gang member, his story shines a light on a side of the capital unfamiliar to the “respectable” members of the jury, and the pressures on young men to get involved.“I speak to young defendants to try and understand something more about their backgrounds,” Mahmood says. “This subculture is often present and is always fascinating to me, so I thought it might be fascinating to read and to understand that this is what it’s like.”Writing his novel in a voice that Mahmood admits he couldn’t read aloud himself without it sounding like a bad impression, it was an odd experience to watch Kidulthood actor Adam Deacon as he recorded the audiobook version. “Just to hear it coming out was so surreal, because it’s not my voice,” he says. “I’d never imagined it in my own voice, unlike many authors. It was the strangest feeling having the thing that was in my head being there in my ear, having it become real.”The novelist’s questions of plot and plausibility are familiar ground for Mahmood, whose day job is all about framing stories in the most convincing light. But while both writers and barristers speak for others, the roles they play are reversed: “In front of a jury I’m telling the defendant’s story through my lens, and here I’m telling the story through his lens.”As the defendant veers from abduction to shootings, from extorting money from a drug dealer towards all-out gang warfare, the author pushes the defendant’s credibility to the limit. It used to be a standard courtroom tactic for lawyers to suggest that if a witness was lying about one thing, then they must be lying about everything, Mahmood explains, but the wave of historic sexual abuse cases in the UK, where convictions have been secured despite discrepancies in witness testimony, has begun to change how credibility is assessed. “The analysis is much more sophisticated now and people are beginning to wonder whether the fact that somebody said something which is not true does infect everything.”The defendant in You Don’t Know Me is clearly telling a story that’s hard to believe, but does that mean he’s guilty of murder? “What I wanted to do was to create the dilemma in a reader,” he says. “If his credibility is stretched to breaking point, is that nonetheless balanced by everything else he’s told you has happened in his life, which may be plausible? … Can the moral question be so strong that it can overwhelm legal guilt?”In fiction, as in the courtroom, it is impossible to avoid considering shades of grey. “There may be points at which you catch him in a provable lie. There may be points at which you pick up things that seem very fantastical. But whether that is enough of a reason to shed everything else that he’s told you is a question for the reader.”You Don’t Know Me is published by Michael Joseph at £12.99 and is available from the Guardian Bookshop for £11.04.