In the queue for the ladies at the Savoy theatre, several older women are wistfully talking of Barbra and how irreplaceable she is. I have to admit I haven’t seen the iconic Streisand film but in the stage version of Funny Girl, which is back in the West End for the first time in 50 years, I thought Sheridan Smith was phenomenal as the entertainer Fanny Brice.Funny Girl review – a joyous Sheridan Smith keeps rain off parade I’ve never seen a musical performance so committed to comedy. Smith is determined to get a laugh out of every line, and she does. It’s never cynical – just a pure joy at making people laugh as much as possible. She has a constant connection with the audience and a vintage sense of timing, a dash of Lucille Ball with a slosh of Les Dawson. In Brice’s Cornet Man routine, Smith is all-singing, all-dancing and at every opportunity giving a knowing wink to the audience – even her backing dancers struggled to suppress giggles alongside Smith’s level of cheekiness.In the musical, Brice’s big break comes fairly quickly. (She even says: “This is too easy, where are my tortured years?!”) In real life, Brice worked at theatres in New York for years before her success. That doesn’t make for a neat narrative, of course: people want to believe someone just finds you, sitting in a doorway, waiting to become incredibly successful. When you try and explain you spent seven years doing theatre in education, working at WH Smith and gigging to five people in theatres that held 40, people tend to zone out. It’s just not a compelling story – so I can see why they skipped over Brice playing the part of an alligator in her early career, although I would have enjoyed seeing that.In the musical, Brice’s vaudeville world comes across as if Spearmint Rhino was populated by debutantes; beautiful chorus girls sing sweetly about marriage, gliding around the stage. Casting an entire female ensemble about a foot taller than Smith is a delightful touch for her physical comedy. She constantly barges into them, scattering them like skittles. Brice doesn’t fit the mould of a vaudeville beauty; her mother and aunts sing to her, “If a girl isn’t pretty, like a Miss Atlantic City” … then, basically, give up. But she proves the age-old rule that, if you’re trying to make ’em laugh, it doesn’t matter what your face looks like: funny is so powerful that it destroys the beauty barrier.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘If a girl isn’t pretty, like a Miss Atlantic City’ … Sheridan Smith, far right, and company in Funny Girl. Photograph: Marc BrennerFanny falls in love, gets more successful, has a baby and goes back to work – so far, a regular modern funny gal. But her new husband is not as clean as his shirts: he embezzles money and gets arrested, leaving Fanny with baby (and a sellout show, so not all bad). As he gets deeper into debt, she tries to help him. The reactions to her help seemed strange to me – it’s implied that it is this help which turns him into a swindler. He actually sings, “Stop choking me, Fanny!” (With all that lovely money your natural talent and hard work have given me …) Even her mother tells her she took away his pride by giving him all that cash. I guess I felt sad that, even though it’s set in the past, we didn’t stand up and shout: “No, you bastard, stop taking her money and being a criminal!” Or at least sing it.But we wept and clapped and felt sorry for her as she tragically reprised Don’t Rain on My Parade. It is hard being a Funny Girl, yet Fanny Brice succeeded at a time when everything was against her – at one point she was the best-paid star on Broadway. But a woman will be punished for having a more successful career than her husband. He’ll turn to crime, and she’ll have nothing left but her talent and that don’t keep ya warm at night. Which, I’m aware, makes a much better end song than “I stopped loving that man because I realised I needed to respect myself”, but that may well be the finale of the Beyoncé musical in 2116.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Making ’em laugh … Sheridan Smith as Fanny Brice. Photograph: Marc Brenner Whatever happens in life, however tragic, if you can get on stage and make them laugh then you regain your power, your control. In a life as unstable and insecure as a performer’s (especially when you have selfishly turned your husband into a felon), she reminded me of how much work and belief it takes to carry on being funny. Brice carried on singing and smiling. It’s a cliche but that’s because there’s a truth to it. You get on stage, you make ’em laugh, and for that moment, they forget their troubles and so do you.Funny Girl is at the Savoy, London, until 8 October 2016. Buy tickets at theguardianboxoffice.com.