Hello!It’s that special time of the month: we’re launching episode two of our video series Vagina Dispatches today, and it’s all about periods. Some women have chosen to stop their periods, and we (Mae and Mona) are two of them. So, in this second video, we speak to a doctor who thinks periods are unnatural, a former Olympian, a menstrual blood artist and a formerly incarcerated woman to find out if we should stop having periods.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Watch – and share! – Vagina Dispatches: Stopping PeriodsIt seems as though almost everyone with a uterus has a period nightmare story. But what about times when your period has been a blessing in your life? Or maybe we still haven’t heard the bloody worst of it – either way, we’d love to hear about your experiences at vagina.dispatches@theguardian.com. Speaking of you…Vaginas, DispatchedTurns out, when you publish a video about vulvas, ask people to draw one and take a genital knowledge quiz on a global website, you get some responses. To our joy, the vast majority of ours were thoughtful and incredibly interesting.We heard from audiences in at least six continents (Asia, Africa, Australia, Europe, North America and South America). So far, people have submitted more than 16,000 vulva drawings from at least 66 countries!      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Just a few of the vulva drawings we loved.We also got at least eight Volvos (Yes, like the car. Very clever.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   We also got a drawing of Dr. Spock.And, of course, 391 submitted drawings of penises.We also heard from some people asking why we think this is important enough to deserve so much time and energy. We heard from way more people telling us what the first video means to them. Here is just a sampling:‘I wish someone had showed it to me years ago’ When I was in my 50s, I used a mirror to look at what was down there, feeling at the same time a great sense of guilt and wrong-doing! Catholic conditioning on sin and shame decided my attitude to my body for most of my life.‘I showed it to my kids’ I love my mom a lot, but to this day, I think she is still uncomfortable with conversations about sex or female anatomy. I have two girls, ages 9 and 12. I’ve already given them ‘the talk’ years ago, and they know there’s nothing off-limits to talk about with regards to reproduction. We are just on the edge of talking about sex for pleasure. I want them to feel empowered sexually as they grow up and to feel very comfortable with their bodies. I’m going to show them this video today. There might be some giggling, but also some learning!‘I showed it to my partner’  I sent this to my wife right away, because it felt like very important education for everyone.‘I’d never seen other people’s vulvas before’ I have always been horribly self-conscious of my whole body and still haven’t come to terms with the changes that happened to it since I gave birth to my son – over 14 years ago! I still feel embarrassed and ashamed because it all looks so different down there and it makes me feel ugly and like a freak. I’ve never seen any other female genitalia (except for the minimalist line drawings in high school textbooks and tampon leaflets), so I didn’t know it was normal to not be all ‘tight and tidy’ like the pictures.” ‘Autocorrect doesn’t even KNOW the word clitoris (or vulva)’ I am writing this email on my Amazon Kindle. Autocorrect changed [it to] the word California (see!) California ... It happened FOUR TMES then happened again as you can see above, even after I added the word c l I t o r I s to the dictionary. The only way I can write the word is to put a space between each letter. So ... let’s try to write the word penis. Oh, look at that; no problem with the word penis.‘Where’s all the hair?’ This was so illuminating. I was distressed, however, to hear that so many young women are feeling the need to get surgery on their labia b/c it doesn’t fit the ‘aesthetic’ out there. This reminds me of all these girls/women shaving their pubic hair – and is this (like the surgery) most probably for men? In any case, I learned so much today. I didn’t even know where my pee hole was before I took the test! ‘I’m a man, but I think I can relate’ I’m a man, 50 now, who has had issues around size since I was at boarding school. I had a penis enlargement when I was about 32. Didn’t work. Through healthy honest relationships, experience, therapy, [and] men’s work, I came to accept my penis ... and also slowly gained an idea of what was ‘normal’. So I really related to and enjoyed this video.Please forward this message along and share episode two to help share the genital knowledge. And, if you’re reading this and haven’t already signed up for the newsletter, you can do so here. Got more? Please email us at vagina.dispatches@theguardian.com. Especially about periods. As audience member Jocelynn wrote: “Bleed on, you glorious women!”Mona & Mae