“There is nothing a mainstream society can appreciate about Lebanese culture ... When you think of Lebanon you think of war and Bankstown and that is just the way it is.”This was the gem I found when scrolling through the comments section of a Daily Telegraph article covering the backlash about Channel 9’s upcoming comedy Here Come the Habibs. The commenter meant to express dismay at the show being commissioned in the first place but, read from a different perspective, it could just as easily be an argument in support of it.Created by Rob Shehadie and Tahir Bilgic, of Lebanese and Turkish heritage respectively, Here Come the Habibs centres on a Lebanese family from the south-west of Sydney. After the Habibs win the lottery, they relocate to a mansion in the posh Sydney suburb of Vaucluse – much to the dismay of their rich white neighbours.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We are yet to see an episode of the show – it premieres on 9 February – but, based on its trailer alone, a petition is already circulating to prevent it from going to air.At present, opposition to the show is divided into two camps. The first is concerned that this very rare occurrence of diversity on Australian screens is part of a ploy to condition the population into thinking that Australian Muslims have a right to be a part of our national story.RobbersDog (@dogdiva25)WTF ? #Conditioning ? We're going to have them #PrimeTime ?#Islamic TV shows?#HereComeTheHabibs#Ch9 #Muslimshttps://t.co/N1PGFbPt46January 2, 2016The other camp includes those who worry that ethnic stereotyping in the show could fuel Islamophobia and classism, and exacerbate existing racial tensions. More than 2,500 have signed the Change.org petition Channel 9 – Pull your racist show “Here Come The Habibs”!, which was started by a first-generation Australian born to Lebanese parents: “The current level of Islamophobia and anti-Arab sentiment is already high in Australia,” she writes. “A show like this, which takes Australia back at least 20 years, does nothing to promote a cohesive society but instead furthers perpetuated stereotypes.”Diversity on television is not just a black and white issue In some respects, I get it. These are troubling times. Those who don’t know otherwise feel that humouring Middle Eastern stereotypes could fan the flames of tensions with Muslims. But Bilgic has revealed that the Habib family are Christian, not Muslim, nullifying any concerns about Islamophobia while illustrating a diversity among Middle Eastern people that is too often glossed over. Bilgic told the Guardian’s Token podcast that representations of the Lebanese family in the show were “clearly exaggerated” and that the calls to boycott it without having seen an episode were “crazy”. “Once [people] see the show they’ll see that it’s about taking the piss out of rich people,” he said. “We both [didn’t] want the Lebanese family to look bad”.The pair have made a career out of poking fun of themselves and their ethnic quirks – notably on Fat Pizza and Housos – and Bilgic says the community he and Shehadie represent are often thankful to be a part of their shows. “They go, ‘Oh my God, we’re being represented on TV,’” he said. “Even if it’s a bit over the top and some way stereotypical at least we’re being represented.”As an Australian of Lebanese background, I’ve faced my fair share of hang-ups about my culture and all the embarrassing things that come with it. Strict parents who were scared that driving to work with the male boss would ruin my marriage prospects; loud relatives; the big wedding to the Anglo-Australian guy that reinforced just how ostentatious we could be.But I’ve also faced significant stereotyping, magnified by a lack of understanding among the wider community about my ethnicity and the people who share it. I once spent half an hour on a book tour talking about racism, stereotypes and the Cronulla riots, when a school teacher asked why I didn’t wear the hijab. It took a lot of patience to explain that if many Muslim women don’t wear it, why would a non-Muslim? Just because she’s Middle Eastern? Token podcast: Here Come the Habibs – and here comes the controversy We’ve been told time and time again that the worst thing we can do for the cohesion of our society is alienate the cultures within it. Giving a voice, column space, or screen time to marginalised ethnic groups could enhance their sense of belonging. It could also offer the wider community a different perspective from the one they’re often fed about Middle Eastern people, whose on-screen storylines tend to be associated with crime, terrorist plots, or antiquated attitudes towards women.This show isn’t about Bankstown. It’s not about war and it doesn’t have an agenda. It’s a fictional tale of an ethnic western Sydney family coming to a posh, white part of town with their strange behaviours, to both encounter and fuel some stereotypes about their otherness.When these things do happen, they can end in tragedy – or they can end in a laugh. I know this because, when my large, loud Lebanese family met my WASP in-laws from the Southern Highlands, laughing was the only way I could come out alive.Silencing any aspect of the debate about racial tensions – even if this debate takes the form of a lowbrow TV comedy – won’t solve our problems. Neither will any premature outrage about a show we so far know little about. Here Come the Habibs premieres on 9 February at 8.30pm on Channel Nine