There is nothing in Helen Monks’s demeanour to indicate that a computer virus has just wiped out the latest draft of her play Dolly Wants to Die, which is premiering at the Edinburgh fringe. She bounds over to greet me at the rehearsal rooms where she has been putting the finishing touches to this one-woman show (well, one woman and a giant DJ-ing teddy bear) about a doll driven to despair by the state of modern Britain. The previous week’s previews in Sheffield, where the 23-year-old writer and actor graduated from university two years ago, have helped her to calibrate the levels of darkness in this acidly funny work.“I’m trying not to let the audience reach rock bottom,” she explains, padding along the corridor in white socks and a flowery summer dress. “You let them almost get there and then you bring in a laugh at the last minute. That’s human, I think. It could be the most awful situation in the world, but we’ll still find a way to make it hopeful.” Hence her breeziness about that lost draft. Although she spent several hours before we meet trying to remember the revisions that were wiped away, when we sit on the sofa, she cheerfully thrusts a packet of biscuits under my nose. “Hobnob?”  As an 11-year-old laureate, she had to write an anniversary poem for Brook Advisory Centre. 'I was obviously a virgin' She claims the play was never intended as a comedy. “I was just really angry about the state of the nation, especially for young people. But the angrier I got, the funnier people seemed to find it.” Performing in character as a doll introduces comic distance without undermining the seriousness of the material. “Dolly can’t understand why humans aren’t constantly freaking out and jumping off bridges. She doesn’t understand how important denial is to us. It enables us to cross the road without weighing up the probability of whether we’ll be run over. It’s what gets us to the other side.”Her script is peppered with topical observations, though the pace of current events has put her in a spin. References to “Cameron’s Britain” have had to be amended, while a Trident joke was removed several drafts ago, only for the subject to pop up in the headlines again. “I feel like, ‘Guys, can you just pause all the news, please?’” Her sigh of exasperation is accompanied by the pop-eyed, slack-mouthed stare that came in handy when she played Germaine – modelled on the teenage Caitlin Moran – in Moran and her sister Caroline’s autobiographical Channel 4 sitcom Raised By Wolves.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   As Caitlin Moran on Raised By Wolves. Photograph: Dave King/Matt SquireMonks was a riot in this witty celebration of working-class exuberance – never more so than when trying to woo a boy in the library by pushing her glasses to the end of her nose and running the tip of her tongue along the edge of a book titled Chlamydia: No Laughing Matter. “You’ve used up all the sexuality,” her sister tells her. “There’s none left for the rest of us.” I'm obsessed with David Mitchell. On Upstart Crow I tried to play it cool, avoiding eye contact The secret to playing Germaine, Monks explains, is to take her self-belief at face value. “She thinks she’s the most amazing person ever. She genuinely loves herself. Playing her is this weird kind of therapy, because the more I do it the more confident I get.” It’s not a quality she seems ever to have lacked. She got the Raised By Wolves gig, for instance, after approaching Moran at a book signing and insisting that she would be ideal for the part. “I suppose it was a very Germaine thing to do.”Edinburgh festival 2016: the shows we recommend Monks, whose parents work in theatre, was writing and acting long before that. At 11, she was the first young poet laureate in her home town of Birmingham. Duties included composing an anniversary poem for the Brook Advisory Centre. “There were loads of people there who’d used the service and had turned up to celebrate it – you know, ‘Thanks for helping me out with my STD!’ I was obviously a complete virgin. I just ended up writing a poem about love.”Around that time, she also became a regular in The Archers on Radio 4, playing Pip Archer throughout her teenage eco-warrior years and during her affair with an older man. Most recently, she was Shakespeare’s stroppy daughter Susanna, with David Mitchell as the playwright, in Ben Elton’s 16th-century sitcom Upstart Crow. A second series has been commissioned, but she’s determined not to be as starstruck this time. “The one thing everyone knows about me is my obsession with David Mitchell, and I think I played it too cool. Avoiding eye contact, things like that. I slightly ruined it for myself.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Monks’s verbatim play E15, about single mothers protesting eviction, premieres at the fringe. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianChannel 4 has cancelled Raised By Wolves, but Moran has said she has a “fucking gigantic plan” for its future. Meanwhile, the fringe will keep Monks busy. As well as Dolly Wants to Die, she co-wrote E15, a verbatim play about the Focus E15 campaign, in which a group of single mothers challenged attempts by east London’s Newham council to evict them. Any downtime will be taken up with her annual attempts to find the worst play on the fringe. “It started out as something mean, but now it’s a joyful thing. I find it so uplifting that people have got the opportunity and space to do something that might not be very good.” Dolly Wants to Die is at the Underbelly Cowgate, Edinburgh, until 28 August. E15 is at Summerhall, Edinburgh, until 27 August.