As we head into end-of-year honours, no official award is handed out for Film Better Than It Had Any Right To Be. If one were, The Shallows (Sony, 15) would be well nigh unbeatable. Narratively stripped to the bone, but stylistically played to the hilt, Jaume Collet-Serra’s lithe, lurid surfer-versus-shark face-off was the giddiest shot of fun I had at the multiplex in 2016. The Blu-ray cover even brags that it’s the best shark film since Jaws, which isn’t the most prestigious praise when you consider what’s come in between, but might just be true.Though its kinetic technical assembly is diminished somewhat, it still splashes and thrashes well enough on the small screen, largely because Blake Lively, as the bloodied boarder stranded agonisingly close to land with a great white circling, gives it some unexpected human nerve. The once stiff Lively has been gradually living up to her surname over her last few films; now you actually want her to defeat the shark, which feels like a watershed.Also a pleasant surprise, recovered from the bad ideas file: Pete’s Dragon (Disney, PG), a widely unrequested remake of an inoffensive enough Disney outing from 1977. In the improbable hands of indie mood merchant David Lowery, the remake emerges as an entirely superior creation, a boy and his beast fable kissed with a genuine sense of compassion and community to go with its expensive digital spectacle. And even that has warmth to it: the eponymous dragon, friend and protector to feral orphan Pete in the woods in the Pacific Northwest, has a sturdy plush-toy quality to him, making their relationship, threatened when the boy is reintroduced to society, all the more sweetly elemental.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Saunders and Joanna Lumley in Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie: ‘half-cut couch fodder’. Photograph: Allstar/Fox SearchlightA significantly less wholesome friendship is at the heart of Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie (Fox, 15), which arrives on DVD shelves at the perfect time. Grandly enjoyable as it was in cinemas, Jennifer Saunders and Joanna Lumley’s most extended episode to date of irresponsible japery, hit-and-miss gags and A-to-Z-list star cameos will play best as half-cut couch fodder at Christmas, accompanied by further fizz in your preferred price bracket. You could try the same approach to Suicide Squad (Warner, 15), though I’m not sure how many bottles you’d need to go through before this grim superhero congregation – a joyless blend of silliness and Christopher Nolan-inspired severity – seems even a little lighter on its leaden feet.There are more satisfyingly nasty neon pleasures to be found in Nerve (Lionsgate, 15), a gleaming millennial update of the kind of techno paranoia thriller we saw so much of in the internet’s earlier days. Directors Henry Joost and Ariel Schulman, who made the canny social media exposé Catfish, have taken the rise of competitive apps such as Pokémon Go – in this case a kind of dare-driven chase with financial rewards – as the starting point for a tense little date thriller that surfs the adolescent insecurities of the Snapchat age. It may someday seem as quaint a period piece as The Net, but should remain a fast ride.Naff as Nerve is in many senses, I got a greater cyber-high from it than I did from Lo and Behold: Reveries of the Connected World (Dogwoof, 12), Werner Herzogcorrect’s earnest, intelligently argued but overreaching luddite’s view of internet culture.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Hot-blooded and tenderhearted’: Theo & Hugo.An ultimately beguiling boy meets boy romance, Olivier Ducastel and Jacques Martineau’s Theo & Hugo (Peccadillo, 15) begins with an unusual choice of meet cute: an 18-minute orgy in a Paris sex club. Having got to know one other in the biblical sense upfront, the eponymous couple make each other’s fully clothed acquaintance over a long night’s amble into day: it’s both hot blooded and tenderhearted.I was slow to realise that April and the Extraordinary World was streaming in plain sight on Amazon Prime. Having heard critical hosannas from Europe and the US, I was waiting for a cinema release. No matter, since this loopily inventive, fragrantly French sci-fi animation fills the small screen with ideas and charm. Marion Cotillard voices the title role, a young, inquisitive woman in restless pursuit of her missing scientist parents. Her search takes her down swirling, steampunk-inspired avenues of exploration, complete with talking cats and various Gallic sideshows. It’s sophisticated enough to boggle adult brains yet happily imbued with child-friendly wonder.