When John Oliver won the Emmy last month for his work on Last Week Tonight and went backstage, a journalist asked him if he “felt responsible” for Donald Trump. He started laughing. “Thank you, yes,” he replied. “It was an honor to win.”“I think [comedy] has an effect,” Lorne Michaels recently told David Weigel at the Washington Post, “but we don’t influence people in how to vote.” Late-night tales: how a new crop of TV hosts is reinventing an old format Over the past few years, late-night comedy has been taken far more seriously than in the days when Johnny Carson was a host. “It somehow feels different,” Charlie Rose said to Samantha Bee – an impression confirmed by the Atlantic last year, which noted that “comedians have taken on the role of public intellectuals”.Recently, the Baffler criticized Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert for being given the mantle of revolutionaries while not being actual revolutionaries themselves, as if hope was a mere dash to the Sierra Madre mountains away. The publication has noted the way in which the powerful have co-opted the language of comedy in an age of comedy excess (which I briefly touched on over here) while asking why we “saddle all comedy with a curative democratic mission”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  John Oliver scolds Republicans over reaction to Trump groping tapeMeanwhile, in January, Willa Paskin asked over at Slate: “Why are Americans ignoring Trevor Noah?” “If you tune into any episode,” she wrote, “you will find something familiar enough, good for a chuckle but never a belly laugh, let alone a revelation.” Disappointed by Jon Stewart’s replacement on The Daily Show, she was hoping for, in effect, two Walter Cronkites in a row. But why?“Social and political injustice is a canvas,” the comedian Nick Vatterott told me. He won the Andy Kaufman award (given to those who “do not define themselves by the typical conventions of comedy”) in 2011. “A much more powerful canvas than subject matter about traffic or Starbucks, but still just a canvas. Comedians can be public intellectuals, but trying to be a public intellectual doesn’t make you a comedian … Just because you’re angry about whatever injustice is happening in society, just the mere fact you’re talking about it doesn’t make it comedy.”Right now, he says, “the weekly cultural/national/global atrocity happens and everyone needs to put their two cents in on it. And you wade through page after page on your Facebook of comics trying to craft that perfect post that truly puts that week’s injustice in perspective.”Which touches on something the comedian Brent Weinbach said: it didn’t matter if the artist was taking an explicitly innovative step or not – it was also about how they used the form. Larry Wilmore told jokes that had a borscht belt-styled echo to them, but he made The Nightly Show his own. Nina Conti does standup as a ventriloquist, but in a way that’s unique to her. Stephen Colbert went from biting satire on The Colbert Report to defending the form of the late-night monologue to Ben Smith, saying: “The people who created this form weren’t dummies or lazy. It’s really got a purpose, the form that it’s in.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So if American critics and journalists are going to keeping asking whether Saturday Night Live can take down Donald Trump or whether John Kerry or George Bush is better for Jon Stewart, perhaps it would do us well to take the now-defunct Rhinoceros party of Canada and move its work south of the border, and take the tradition of Will Rogers running for office and Stephen Colbert running for president and expand that work exponentially. In 1980, the Rhinoceros party ran 180 candidates across Canada. Over the years, the party has advocated the repeal of gravity, that Canada’s currency be changed to bubble gum so that it could be inflated and deflated “at will”, breeding a mosquito that would only hatch in January so that “the little buggers will freeze to death”, and more.  And people voted for this. So if people vote for a theoretical American Rhinoceros party, what would critics subsequently say about comedy’s influence on politics? And why do these questions never seem to take into account the demonstrable seriousness of Al Franken, or Jón Gnarr, who served as the mayor of Reykjavík for four years? (Let alone the chaotic danger Beppe Grillo represents in Italy?)  Comedians love to tap into the relationship between the promise of knowledge being power and power being meaningless. But comedy is comedy. And power is power. 