I remember the first series of Big Brother, in July 2000, very clearly. It was all about Nasty Nick Bateman, eventual winner Craig Phillips – and Darren Ramsay and his chicken. At the time it ended I was hosting a children’s TV awards event at London’s Docklands Arena. There was an audience of 10,000, with hotly anticipated appearances from S Club 7, Chris Tarrant from Who Wants To Be a Millionaire? (which had also just become a phenomenon) and the Spice Girls. Ramsay was a last-minute booking to present an award, yet when he came onstage he was greeted with the sort of hysteria you’d now associate with Justin Bieber.After just a month on television, this ordinary chap from Catford, south London, was an overnight superstar, ready to milk his 15 minutes of fame. For a guy who had been whisked from the “house” straight to a concert arena – with no idea of the level of notoriety he had obtained – you could see the sheer bewilderment on his face.But almost as soon as Ramsay’s feet had touched the red carpet, it was ripped away from under him. The sudden halt can hit like a train, a confusing psychological blow to your self-esteem and wellbeing.I trained as a counsellor and life coach after my own battles with depression and anxiety, and since 2014 I’ve been one of the “psychs” on Celebrity Big Brother’s Bit on the Side, analysing the individuals and reporting back on their antics. As with the original psychological TV experiment, I find each new batch of contestants fascinating. What I’ve learned is that, to take part in reality shows, humility and a healthy amount of perspective are vital.Those seeking fame also need a well-considered back-up plan. Fame almost certainly will not last – and it’s the crash back to earth that catches so many out with feelings of loss, insecurity and rejection.The old adage “you don’t know what you’ve got until it’s gone” applies here. Losing the limelight can leave any of us feeling fragile or worthless. It feels like an overnight bereavement. The people who cope best are those who keep at least one foot firmly on the ground – who stay engaged with “real” life, with their true friends and family. These are the folk who regain perspective fastest.Most of us will never appear on a reality show or court celebrity, but we can all relate to our own level of “fame”, and chances are you’ve experienced it at some points in your life: that moment you achieved a high grade in an exam or job promotion, the adoration you felt when scoring the winning goal for the school team, the moment you clinched that deal for your boss and were showered with praise, counting up the “likes” on your Facebook status… No matter whether it’s this everyday “fame” or the dizzy heights of being on Big Brother, the same rules apply: humility, outlook and gratitude are key in playing the fame game to your advantage.Re-engaging in interests which boost self-worth is also extremely important, as is creating new goals.As a veteran children’s TV presenter, I’ve often been excitedly told by a little person: “I want to be famous!” When I ask what they want to be famous for, I’m met with a blank stare, a nonchalant shrug, then a variation of: “I dunno, it looks cool, and you don’t have to do much to get attention and money.”While talent shows dominate our screens, fame doesn’t seem so intangible. It can be fun, exciting and intoxicating, but also bitterly disappointing when it doesn’t pan out. The knack is to be one step ahead of the game and use the opportunity as much as it will use you.lifecoachingbyanna.com