In the third year of her university course studying computer systems, Helana Santos earned a placement at a tech company where she realised she had made a terrible mistake. “I immediately knew that I wanted to do something a lot more creative with my life,” she says. So she adjusted her sights toward the video game industry, securing a graduate role at a small studio in Bath. Her first year in the industry was tough – her first few projects were cancelled. Then after she joined Blitz Games in Leamington Spa, a video game studio that employs more than 200 staff, she was offered the chance to work on a dream project: a Mickey Mouse game, designed in collaboration with Disney.While Santos describes creating Epic Mickey 2 as an “amazing experience”, in September 2013 she left the company to set up her own independent studio, co-founding Modern Dream with a colleague, Oliver Clarke. The team has worked fast and hard, launching a number of games to date. The Button Affair, for example, is a game in the style of 60s spy capers in which you play a glamorous thief out to steal a diamond of Koh-i-Noor proportions from a business tycoon. As well as its striking aesthetic, Santos and the team had a philanthropic vision for the game: The Button Affair was offered as a free download to everyone who donated a pound to the charity Special Effect, which specialises in making video games accessible to disabled players.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Button Affair, made by Santos’s Modern Dream studio.Santos, who is technical director at Modern Dream, was also one of the five founders of Arch Creatives, a shared workspace for game developers, in Leamington Spa. “It is a unique way of working and a model that is spreading around the country with other hubs and co-working spaces,” she says. “We collaborate and share knowledge.”Arch Creatives hosts and organises events, while its tenants often give talks at schools and universities in a bid to encourage more young people to get into game-making. “Game-making has become a lot more accessible, while technology continues to change and evolve,” she says. “I am so excited to see what people’s creativity through games will look like in the years to come.”Santos believes in the unique power of the medium. “Games can elicit emotions that surprise players, provide relaxing experiences, fun experiences, ways to encourage people to socialise and much more,” she says. “They’re extremely powerful. Developers often tell their own stories through games, and put a lot of themselves into them. In this way, games can change people’s lives for the better.”For Santos, this latter quality is evident in Special Effect’s work. “The charity provides happiness, a way for friends and families to interact and a way to make people smile.”