Here is this week’s playlist – songs picked by a reader from your suggestions after last week’s callout. Thanks for them all.  about how our weekly readers recommend series works at the end of the piece.Accordions are everywhere. From Odessa in Ukraine to Odessa in Texas, from Mombasa to Mumbai, you’ll hear them on street corners and in concert halls. Our first extra terrestrial contact will probably be with a little green man playing Bobby Shafto’ on a squeezebox.I thought selecting this playlist would be relatively easy, a piece of cake: I’d just pick the accordion-based songs and tunes I’ve known and loved and that I’d have nominated myself had I not been in the chair. What could be the problem? People were bound to nominate them – I’d only have to put them into a pleasing running order and write a few words about them. It turned out to be a lot more difficult than that. Some of my prospective choices did turn up; some songs turned up but with different singers. But all in all, not that many. What I did get was a tumultuous variety. A bit of Havana here, a bit of Kinshasa there. And it set me thinking.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist.Readers recommend is like a great big cooking pot, and each week we come along with our carefully hand-picked ingredients and put them on the table, and then the chef de jour will take their pick from the wonderful selection of produce and skilfully create an aural dish to set before the connoisseurs.Squeezebox StewList of ingredients:Les Negresses Vertes: Zobi La MoucheBeirut: Scenic WorldFlaco Jiménez and Linda Ronstadt: El PuenteThe Pogues: A Pair of Brown EyesKD Lang: Constant CravingGotan Project: Vuelvo al SurKate & Anna McGarrigle: Swimming SongPaul Simon: The Boy in the BubbleThe Kinks: AlcoholMolotov Jukebox: Get ReadyKevin Coyne: Are We Dreaming?Into the pot let’s throw two cups of chopped Zobi La Mouche and fry gently until soft – this will bring a robust and strident flavour to the dish, French, but with a North African twist. Bring to the boil and then add one and a half litres of Beach Boys – this will add California sunshine freshness and give the dish its depth. Next, add a couple of handfuls of Johnnie Allan’s Promised Land – a tangy Cajun variety of Chuck Berry’s succulent original delicacy, but no less flavoursome. Give a good stir and cover. While it’s bubbling away, chop up equal amounts – about a handful of each – of Beirut and Jiménez, blend in some Pogues (be sparing with the Pogues, a little goes a long way) and add to the pot. Season with a good dollop of KD Lang and return to a low heat.In another pan, heat some Gotan Project and add the McGarrigles – a holy trinity of banjo, fiddle and accordion. Saute for five minutes and add the Boy in the Bubble and the Alcohol and reduce until it’s about half its original content. Transfer contents of both pans into an ovenproof dish and cover. Cook in a low oven for 1-2 hours. Remove from oven, sprinkle liberally with some grated Molotov Jukebox and serve with a nice bottle of Kevin Coyne.Bon appétit.New theme: how to join inThe new theme will be announced at 8pm (GMT) on Thursday 24 November. You have until 11pm on 28 November to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.