“The nonsense of being female”: that’s how Jessi Klein describes the comic terrain she cultivates as a standup performer and head writer of Inside Amy Schumer. For example, Klein recently told a clothing store clerk she’d just had a baby even though her son was already more than a year old because nothing in the boutique fit her curvy body.“I straight up told a total lie to a stranger I would never see again!” she marvels. “Just because I thought, I should be thinner by now.” An Inside Amy Schumer sketch this past season took the idea further as a sales clerk, unable to find anything in Schumer’s size, leads her out to a pasture to “shop” with Lena Dunham and a cow.Klein has now worked her serrated humor into a debut collection of autobiographical essays, titled You’ll Grow Out Of It, published in the US this week. The book, she explains, was shaped by her conflicted feelings about “stereotypically female experiences”. “On the one hand, [I’m] acknowledging that I feel separate from them – like, ‘Oh that’s kind of dumb, why do I have to be that?’ – while at the same time feeling, ‘I desperately want to be that’,” Klein says, breaking into a ridiculously large smile. “So yeah, I think a lot about how much I enjoy stuff that is ultimately the product and symbol of a really fucked up society.”She makes these pronouncements while sitting at a Silverlake cafe squeezed between a yoga studio and a luxury housing construction site, dressed in a white and blue sailor-stripe boatneck sweater and pale corduroys. (A toddler boy at the next table is dressed almost identically.) Klein can’t quite shut off her external antennae, punctuating the interview with worries: that a bird in the tree above might poop on her, that the sunlight is too glaring, that noise from the construction site is too distracting. We eventually move to a shadier table.This vibrant-but-uncomfortable-in-her-own-skin quality is knit into You’ll Grow Out of It. It often seems like Klein is hate-watching her own experiences, then laughing out loud at their cringeworthy absurdity. She arrives at her sister’s Disneyland-themed wedding in an Ambien haze, determined to seduce Tigger; instead, she ends up grinding into the fake-furry chipmunk belly of Dale. (Chip made himself scarce.) In other essays, she tries to educate a caddish boyfriend by sharing wisdom from He’s Just Not That Into You, and unexpectedly surrenders to the madness of wedding gown shopping, in which “dresses are brought out from back rooms with somber reverence, like the Torah being revealed from the ark”.Klein says she grew up as a tomboy that turned into a tom man. “I’m going to be 41 and I have no clue how to walk in heels,” Klein confesses to me. While other young women around her were learning to wax, pluck, manicure and balance on unstable footwear, Klein remained blissfully unaware, treating her body as a utilitarian mobile home rather than an enemy to be subdued.Growing up in downtown Manhattan in the early 80s, Klein says she was “a bookish lonely weirdo. I didn’t really have a good friend until I was in fourth grade. So I read a lot of Jane Austen and Louisa May Alcott and all of these female authors.” She became an adept of Groucho Marx after seeing Duck Soup at age nine, even dressing like him for Halloween. At Vassar College, Klein joined a sketch comedy group but instead of trying her hand at standup after graduation, she took a temp job at Comedy Central, eventually moving up the ladder to become a development executive, working on projects such as Chappelle’s Show and Strangers with Candy. For two or three years, she explains, she struggled with self-doubt that held her back from acting on her creative impulses. Looking at the comedians and writers around her, she wondered: “How were they raised so they could just wake up and do these incredibly free and creative and wild things every day?”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When finally she summoned the courage to get onstage, Klein launched herself into a successful standup career while also writing for comedy series such as The Showbiz Show with David Spade, Samantha Who? and Saturday Night Live. The SNL gig turned out to be a grueling experience, and she walked away after just one season. “It’s a particular kind of grind that is so nonstop and is structured as sink or swim,” she recalls now. Afterwards, Klein vowed that if she ever got the opportunity to create her own TV show, her first priority would be to create a happy workplace where people could talk openly about how they felt about the job: “I want everyone to feel good all the time.” She says she’s tried to achieve that, in collaboration with executive producer Dan Powell, with Inside Amy Schumer.When Comedy Central offered Schumer a TV pilot in 2012, the comedian asked her friend Klein for advice. The series was originally envisioned as a sassy talkshow. But after several glasses of wine, Klein urged Schumer to think bigger. “Amy texted me late at night after talking to Jessi and said, ‘Scrap the treatment we have! I want to make my Louie!” says Dan Powell. After the network gave Schumer and Powell the sign-off, the first person they hired was Klein.“Amy is a joke machine, a fountain of ideas, and Jessi is able to take all this stuff and say, what is the smartest way that we can attack this very funny concept?” says Powell. “She is always asking, what is the core commentary here that we can use to drive the writing?”The result has been instantly classic sketches that have circulated massively on YouTube and social media, such as the hip-hop music video satire Milk Milk Lemonade and Last Fuckable Day. Conceived by Klein and directed by film-maker Nicole Holofcener, the latter starred Tina Fey, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Patricia Arquette as themselves – actresses over 40 out for a picnic to celebrate Louis-Dreyfus’s waning Hollywood appeal. Who tells men when it’s their last day? Schumer asks them innocently. The women roar with laughter. Male actors “could be 100 and nothing but white spiders coming out – but they’re fuckable”, Fey snipes.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest What Klein does best, on TV and in You’ll Grow Out of It, is to unpack the innate weirdness of blindly embraced female rituals, whether going to spas, shopping at Anthropologie (“the manger in which Zooey Deschanel was born”) or chasing unworthy guys. “Sometimes I wonder if it’s genetic,” she writes in the book, “if I had a great-great-grandmother who walked around Russia yearning for the most emotionally unavailable chubs in her shtetl.”Klein is equally adept at plumbing the pathos of everyday life – even though her everyday life now includes writing Peabody- and Emmy-winning skits that go viral for the supernova that is Schumer. In one essay about attending the Emmys, Klein describes the mundane feelings that percolate inside that seemingly magic bubble of celebrity. Having left her baby at home, she sits backstage alone after the ceremony, pumping milk from her breasts. “You think, I will get this little taste of [fame] and it will be perfect,” Klein says. “But then it turns out it’s still just your life.”Yet she is aware of how unique her experience on the Schumer show is compared with the TV norm. Recently she pitched a female-driven series to some networks. In the midst of a great meeting with a sympathetic exec, Klein recalls: “He said, ‘You just need to make sure that there’s something in there for men to relate to.’ This is a cool guy who wanted to buy it, but there’s still that flag being raised of: what would guys want to watch?”That’s why, Klein says, she feels lucky to collaborate with Amy. “By doing what she does, she created a platform for all of these things – stuff that you might not have even had the guts to pitch on another sketch show because there is a sense that men won’t get it, so it won’t be considered worth doing.”You’ll Grow Out of It, by Jessi Klein, is available now from Grand Central Publishing in the US. It comes out in Australia through Nero Books on 1 August