“I’m going to be nice tonight,” Ricky Gervais promised the assembled Hollywood luminaries in the Beverly Hilton Hotel’s ballroom – a promise that expired approximately once sentence later.The actor, comedian and Hollywood bête noire left the film and television industries’ biggest stars gasping in shock, delight and discomfort with an opening monologue at the 73rd annual Golden Globe Awards that poked fun at everyone from Caitlyn Jenner to Jennifer Lawrence and Roman Polanski to Matt Damon.“I’ve changed,” Gervais declared. “Not as much as Bruce Jenner, now Caitlyn Jenner, of course. What a year she’s had! She became a role model for trans people everywhere, showing great bravery in breaking down barriers and destroying stereotypes. She didn’t do a lot for women drivers, but you can’t do everything.”The reference to the accident caused by Jenner – in which a driver died when Jenner crashed into a Lexus, which in turn crashed into a Hummer – got a distinctly mixed response in the room and on social media. After mocking host network NBC for receiving zero nominations this year, as well as actress Lawrence’s push for equal pay for Hollywood’s female stars, Gervais also landed a particularly divisive punch on Adam Sander’s Pixels, the über-flop that Gervais labeled less funny than Schindler’s List.But beyond industry in-jokes, the comedian’s sharpest lines were aimed squarely at the ceremony itself.As the unofficial kickoff event of awards season, the Golden Globes have traditionally been seen as lighter fare – or, as Gervais would put it, worthless.“As if film stars would stay away from the chance of winning a Golden Globe – particularly if their film companies have already paid for it,” Gervais said. “If you do win tonight, remember that no one cares about that award as much as you do. OK? Don’t get emotional – it’s embarrassing. That award is, no offense, worthless.”And Gervais would know – as he told the assembled stars, he’s got three. “One’s a doorstop, one I use to hit burglars with, and the other’s on my nightstand … ” Gervais trailed off, implying that the statuette had been reduced to the role of a marital aid.Gervais later clarified: “To be clear, that was a joke about me shoving a Golden Globe, that I’ve won, up my arse.”