For a generation of us, the theme from Australian series Round the Twist triggers an emotional response. I remember watching it on TV as a kid; the boy from next door would sometimes come over and we’d watch it together, lying on our tummies on the rug. I still feel dizzy and excited when I hear the song, and I’m not alone. With the show’s original fans hitting their 30s, there seems to be a groundswell of nostalgia for Round the Twist and its creator, Paul Jennings.First screened in the 1980s, Round the Twist centred on three children and their father who move to a haunted lighthouse. Based largely on Jennings’ bestselling books, it was rude, scary, weird and funny. As I discovered upon rewatching it with my daughter recently, it was also thoroughly groundbreaking children’s television.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A household name in Australia, Paul Jennings is a kind, shy man in his early 70s who doesn’t seem comfortable blowing his own trumpet. But he can see that his books generate “a lot of nostalgia and attachment” for his adult fans. In 2013, trendy quarterly magazine Dumbo Feather hosted An Evening With Paul Jennings. “I wasn’t sure who would come,” Jennings says when we meet at his Melbourne home. “But it was full of people who read my books as children. The enthusiasm and atmosphere was lovely. I’d never had anything like it before.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Some kids don’t want to be noticed. And that’s OK’: Australian children’s book author Paul Jennings. Photograph: Allen and UnwinRound the Twist nostalgia seems to be cropping up everywhere. YouTube is awash with fan videos, and the American sci-fi series Stranger Things was promoted by Netflix Australia this week with a witty homage to the series. A recent radio documentary tracked down the three actors who played Bronson through the series, and folk band Tinpan Orange have reworked the theme tune as an earnest, wistful ballad that sends audiences berserk.Jennings’ writing may be ripe for nostalgia, but it’s also beginning to date, the author says. “My books hardly ever mention a kid being on a computer. They’re based on the adventures that I used to have, and I think today’s kids would like to have. I mean, it’s more exciting to be in snow or on the edge of a cliff than on Facebook.”My five-year old-daughter found the first episode of Round the Twist so scary, she hid under a blanket, but now she’s obsessed. As an adult viewer, I’m struck by its countercultural values. The father Tony is a hippy sculptor and the daughter Linda is a teenage feminist. There’s a whiff of sex too – the father is on the lookout for a new partner, and kids Pete and Linda are having their first romantic encounters. The special effects look dated but the acting is excellent, particularly in the early series.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Jennings said the Australian children’s TV show Round the Twist, which he created, was ‘based on the adventures that I used to have, and I think today’s kids would like to have’. Photograph: ACTVLike Neighbours and Crocodile Dundee, Round the Twist was a successful Australian cultural export. It won awards in Canada and aired in several European countries, including the UK on the BBC in the late 1990s and early 2000s. I was astonished when I moved to London in my 20s and found that my new English friends had watched it too. But few had heard of Paul Jennings or his books.Open thread: Original Pizza Shapes are back. What else should be brought back? Jennings’ collections of short stories feature ordinary kids stumbling across bizarre situations, such as a haunted toilet or a magical lipstick. The stories in Unreal!, Uncanny! and Unbelievable! skilfully combine farting, nudity and vomit with coming-of-age themes such as sexuality and social awareness. His stories are perfectly pitched at children beginning to read fiction for pleasure.Ali Webster, 34, a librarian at a Sydney primary school and lifelong Paul Jennings fan, says she fondly remembers being read his stories by her dad. “Paul Jennings’ books were my saviours when I was a new librarian, and needed to engage reluctant readers,” says Webster. “I tell the kids that the books are naughty and that they shouldn’t show their mums. That gets them interested.”Loneliness and embarrassment are recurrent themes, as are absent or single parents. “You can tell that Jennings is both a dad and a teacher,” says Webster. Jennings himself says both the boys and fathers in his stories tend to be based on himself. Jennings’ new novel, The Unforgettable What’s His Name, is about a boy who can blend into his surroundings like a chameleon. It’s funny, easy to read and a madcap romp. In my daughter’s favourite bit, a character gets soaked in monkey wee. And like all his books, it includes some subtle messages about childhood too. “Some kids don’t want to be noticed – and that’s OK,” Jennings says. “But the world is changing in such a way that it is more and more difficult to get by if you are shy.“I hope that the book tells the quiet people that their lives can be exciting and successful.”• The Unforgettable What’s His Name by Paul Jennings is released by Allen & Unwin on 26 October 