Welcome to this week’s blog. Here’s a roundup of your comments and photos from last week – with marvellous letters, cats and a call for the creation of “bookaholics anonymous”. kushti shared:Finally got round to reading an obvious omission from my reading history – The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao by Junot Diaz, which was voted by an assembly of critics as the best book of the [21st century so far]. And yes, it is a great read, it has a fabulous dynamic energy about it which is irresistible.For a complete change from the rather emotionally draining Diaz, I have gone to the outer reaches of experimentalism with You & Me by Padgett Powell, which concerns a pair of Vladimir and Estragon type characters talking rubbish to each other, and nothing else, to very amusing effect.adamelvins started 2016 “on a high” by re-reading his “favourite book of all time” – something that this bookshelf confirms:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: adamelvins/GuardianWitnesstyorkshiretealass has finished Close Encounters of the Furred Kind:... and really enjoyed it. I’m a big fan of Tom Cox’s writing; his turn of phrase is brilliant and there’s a genuine warmth and affection that runs through it all. Some wonderful descriptions of the Devon countryside too. My one very minor gripe is that some of it is slightly rehashed from his (sadly now defunct) Guardian column, such as Roscoe’s pub adventures, but it’s so well-written that I can’t really complain about that.nprezzo is reading I Love Dick by Chris Kraus:A friend recommended it to me. I’m a 19 year old man/boy and some of the stares I get on the train are quite funny but the book is pretty good and scarily relatable. I’m quite an anxious person and I struggle to make the distinction between reality and what’s going on in my own head (which are usually extremes) far too often. That’s the sense that I get with Chris’ infatuation in the book.lljones decided to stop “lurking and occasionally posting replies” and post about their current read, The Element of Lavishness: Letters of William Maxwell and Sylvia Townsend Warner, 1938-1978. Welcome!Oh, this book is marvellous! I’d forgotten how much I love collections of literary letters (The Habit of Being: Letters of Flannery O’Connor was my previous gold bar, but this one may have toppled it.) I’m a life-long fan of Maxwell, but was only vaguely familiar with Warner. Over 40 years the correspondence between Maxwell and Warner grows from the formal, editor/writer relationship, to a true and lasting love between these two, though they only met in person a handful of times. At times Maxwell appears almost besotted with Warner (though he is equally adoring of his wife Emily and their daughters.) I learned of Warner’s politics, her relationship with her partner Valentine Aukland, her friends and foes in London literary circles of the 40’s and 50’s, and she emerges as a fascinating character. It doesn’t hurt that there are frequent references to cats, both Maxwell’s and Warner’s. It took me two library renewals before I could brace myself to read the last six pages – Maxwell’s eulogy at Warner’s funeral.And finally, conedison lamented his bookaholism:Unless there’s a Heaven that allows you to b.y.o.b (bring your own books) I’ll never have enough time to read what I own. And yet ... and yet I just ordered two more novels. Does anyone else here in our community share this tragic affliction?Interesting links about books and readingReaders have been singing the praises of the New Yorker Fiction Podcast, where published authors read short stories written by other writers and discuss it. “I have just listened to one of my favorite short story writers, Jhumpa Lahiri, reading an exquisitely sad story by William Trevor, whose work I have also enjoyed over the years. Wonderful to hear her voice and to listen to what she has to say about her craft and what she has learned from Trevor,” shared PatLux. “It’s like someone with an enormous sweet tooth being handed the key at midnight to a magnificent bakery – alone with all those delicious cakes and pies,” said conedison. “I gorged on three Cheevers in a row – such a glutton ... Also very interesting to suddenly hear the voices of writers I’ve been reading for decades.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Continuing with theCharles Simic fandom displays started last week,ellamae1 is readingThe Life of Images, “a well-researched (actually I asked for it!) Christmas present from my sister-in-law.” Photograph: GuardianWitnessThe 50 Most Unacceptable Sentences in City on Fire, In Order: “Some of these seem inarguably bad, many no doubt would be acceptable in context, others seem unobjectionable to me. The sentence ‘She couldn’t tell if it was good, exactly, but no one could say it wasn’t ambitious’ seems self-referential in the context of this particular work,” said Swelter. “A novel as long as this one certainly offers a spacious hunting ground for something like this, but I suspect that this sort of exercise could be performed on most novels without really saying anything about the quality of the work.” Do others agree? In The Awl. Striking Similes: “Her expression changed with the rapidity of a kaleidoscope”, or “cheeks as soft as July peaches”? Truly awful similes, put together by The Paris Review, after another one (“Breasts like bronzed mangoes”) went viral from the novel – surprise – City on Fire. An Interview with Junot Díaz: “The linguistic simultaneity that I experience or, perhaps, that I embody, [...] is to belong to a language that one does not belong to at all, or the possibility that one can belong to a language and simultaneously not belong to it.” A fascinating interview with the Dominican-American author in Asymptote (hat tip to fingerlakeswanderer). A Brief History of Book Illustration: Are we at the start of another golden age for image/text collaboration?, ask Literary Hub. Should Fiction Be Timeless? Pop Culture References in Contemporary Novels: from Brett Easton Ellis and David Foster Wallace to Hanya Yanagihara, Electric Literature look at authors who have included – or altogether avoided – references to popular culture. Sign up to our Bookmarks newsletter If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading, “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here.And, as always, if you have any suggestions for topics you’d like to see us covering beyond TLS, do let us know.