When does a simple movement become a gesture of feeling or intent? What kind of wordless conversation can people have through dance? How do mental and physical states inform each other when a dance work is being viewed or performed?Siobhan Davies’ latest project, entitled material/rearranged/to/be, fills the space of the Barbican’s Curve gallery with dance activities, artworks and texts that hum around such questions. They are questions with which dance has, in a sense, been grappling forever, as choreographers have experimented with new and potentially more articulate ways with which to represent emotions and ideas. But with the advance of neuroscience, and a more sophisticated understanding of how mind and body interconnect, dance has acquired a whole new theory-set with which to explore its own unique instrument, the “intelligent body”.'Let's turn the whole world around': inside Siobhan Davies' dance laboratory Neuroscience has certainly been a key influence on the artists and choreographers who have worked with Davies on this project, although its impact registers very differently from Thinking With the Body, the hi-tech exhibition at the Wellcome Collection in which Wayne McGregor showcased the results of his own recent immersions in the field. Davies and her collaborators might be exploring parallel issues to McGregor, in their consideration of how we understand, experience and craft the intelligent body, but they do so in a much more serendipitous and low-tech style.The “items” on view in the gallery are too various for easy categorisation. At one end of the Curve is Charlie Morrissey, dancing a sequence of short phrases that are apparently executed in response to a set of instructions, both strange and banal, that are projected on to the screen behind. Watching Morrissey crouch down, pivot on one heel, throw up an arm in a jagged shape is a curiously puzzling experience. We’re invited to consider how those moves relate to commands to execute an action that might “change the course of history’ or one that has been “dictated to my body by a voice inside my head”.Just before Morrissey’s solo, the same screen displays a montage of more formalised movement imagery. Created by Efrosini Protopapa, it shows cut-out figures from medieval artworks, which have been rearranged into pairs in such a way that the averted glances and piously outstretched hands of their original gestures have been converted to a body language of confrontation and argument. It’s the quirkiest, most charming piece on display and it has been made in reference to one of the other main influences on the exhibition, the German art historian Aby Warburg, who made his own study of how the intelligent body has been represented throughout the history of painting and sculpture.As you move around the rest of the gallery, there are headphones that allow you to insert yourself into the middle of someone else’s conversation and there is an installation of posters that are inscribed with phrases describing dance. Matthias Sperling dances a short sequence of plunging, enfolding movement which alters incrementally, and invites us to question the way we read difference and sameness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Siobhan Davies’ material/rearranged/to/be at the Barbican’s Curve gallery, London. Photograph: Ian Gavan/Getty Images for Barbican Art GalleryRight at the far end of the space, Andrea Buckley is improvising a solo. Workmanlike and intent, she shifts her balance from foot to foot, drops to the ground, curls deftly back up to standing; and at the same time we’re presented with different sources of information through which to read her body. Live video is projected, focusing exclusively on her feet, as they grip and slide and test the surface of the floor; another screen shows an anatomical drawing of the foot, the delicate bony structure that underpins these moves. At one point, too, Buckley begins to talk in matter of fact terms about the actions she is performing, offering a verbal shorthand for the complex mental and physical decisions she is making at every moment and to which this work attempts to attune us.Attentiveness to detail, to the present moment, is a goal towards which this exhibition is constantly trying to coax us. The way in which the material is organised has an inbuilt element of chance: the performance elements stop and start at different times, and in different combinations, and Davies encourages her audience to move through the gallery on their own journey, making their own connections between the material rather than having it curated for them.For a long time now, Davies has been experimenting with different ways to present choreography, avoiding conventional theatrical spaces in an attempt to close the gap between performers and public. She’s not alone. Boris Charmatz and Anne Teresa de Keersmaeker are among several others who’ve been seeking to create more informal, intimate ways of viewing dance. Yet in the case of material/rearranged/to/be I’m not convinced that this kind of free-form exhibition space really serves its material well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Siobhan Davies’ material/rearranged/to/be at the Barbican’s Curve gallery, London. Photograph: Ian Gavan/Getty Images for Barbican Art GalleryProbably the crowded situation of a press view is not the ideal way to experience it, but with even a few groups of people milling around, the Curve gallery feels cluttered, difficult to navigate. There are numerous wordy pieces of text on display, meditating on issues like space, time, and ways of seeing, and they are difficult to see, difficult to digest. The live performance elements, crammed into quite small spaces, don’t offer easy sight lines; and because there’s such a down-beat seriousness about most the content, you have to work quite hard to concentrate.Walking around the exhibition I couldn’t help but compare it with the wittily staged performances with which choreographer Jonathan Burrows and composer Matteo Fargion have been exploring material of a comparable density. In works like Cheap Lecture the two men have riffed around seemingly dense subjects like the nature of composition, the mysteries of theatrical space and time, the complicit relationship between audience and performer. But through their playful stage personalities, their droll handling of language, their joyous nonsense and clever structural games the two men are capable of beguiling, joking and surprising their audience into a state of full intellectual alert.There’s so much in Davies’ project that’s interesting, that plays into the heart of current thinking about dance. And while it goes against her personal philosophy, it seems to me that her ideas would have been far better presented not only within a more structured, authoritative format, but with a far greater showmanship of style.• Siobhan Davies’ material/rearranged/to/be is at the Curve, Barbican, London, until 28 January. Box office: 020-7638 8891.