Gogglebox9pm, Channel 4Following on from the Christmas ratings smash Gogglesprogs, it’s time for the youngsters to hand the remote back to the grown-ups as a new series of living room disseminations begins. Expect the collective-opinion cannons to home in on the likes of Dickensian, Call the Midwife and the all-new X-Files. Of course, one day the Goggleboxers will be asked to review the very episode of Gogglebox they’re currently in, and planet Earth will implode. Mark Gibbings-JonesBest Walks With A View With Julia Bradbury8pm, ITVThe presenter offers a proposition for family days out: walks with attractive views. True, we might buy into this kind of thing as a component of Coast, but here even the programme-makers seem to suspect that – scenery or not – that’s possibly all a little boring. As such, they keep Julia moving: dropping in for a chat with local people, tentatively having a go at something and then saying “I’ll let you get on with it, then”, and briskly moving on. Tonight: the very nice Anglesey. John RobinsonShetland9pm, BBC1DI Jimmy Perez (Douglas Henshall) and his team dig deeper into a conspiracy that might involve the Glasgow police and judiciary, as well as some unpleasant gangsters. As another body turns up and information from the distant past is hard-won by the island cops, the series continues to boast an authority and finesse that places it above most dour-detective shows. Tonight, the aftermath of rape, for the victim and those close to her, is handled with intelligence and care by Gaby Chiappe and Robert Murphy’s script. Jack SealeQI10pm, BBC2After rattling through half an alphabet’s worth of “quite interesting” trivia, and finding endlessly inventive ways of calling Alan Davies an idiot, Stephen Fry finally steps down from his role of QI’s avuncular headmaster tonight. But first there’s a final light-hearted lecture to get through, on the subject of misconceptions. The panel of Chris Addison, Sue Perkins and Sara Cox isn’t quite a classic by QI standards – where’s Bill Bailey?! – but one final opportunity for some Fry-and-Davies back-and-forth should make up for that. Gwilym MumfordDaft Punk Unchained10pm, BBC4Thomas Bangalter and Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo, the French house duo who achieved superstardom as pioneers of 21st-century electronic dance music, do not participate in this film about their career. That’s appropriate, however, as they long ago made the shrewd decision to absent themselves from the celebrity process, appearing in public only as helmeted robots. There are, though, interviews with collaborators Pharrell, Nile Rodgers and Kanye West in this thorough investigation of their rise and reinvention. David Stubbs Devonport: Inside The Royal Navy9pm, Quest This new documentary series sets its sights on Devonport in Plymouth, the largest naval base in western Europe, and home to both the bulk of Britain’s surface fleet and the navy’s nuclear-powered submarines. With the colossal HMS Ocean docking at Devonport to prepare for a quick turnaround to head off to the Nato mission Trident Juncture, there’s much to be done in terms of filling its cargo hold with everything from heavy artillery to combat helicopters. David Cameron is also arriving for a visit, which has to remain top secret. Ben ArnoldThe Seventies9pm, Sky ArtsFollowing on from (you guessed it) The Sixties, this CNN-made series traces US-focused events in the era of Watergate, the Iran hostage crisis and the sexual revolution reaching beyond a coterie of hippies and hipsters. First up, the subject is how TV changed in the 1970s. This was the decade when Monty Python’s Flying Circus journeyed across the Atlantic; and when enduring shows such as Saturday Night Live and Monday Night Football were launched on the world. Jonathan WrightToday’s best live sportWomen’s International T20 Cricket: South Africa v England Second match in the series. The men’s T20 international between the sides airs at 3.30pm. 11.25am, Sky Sports 2Premiership Rugby Union: Harlequins v Leicester Tigers Top-flight encounter. 7pm, BT Sport 1Scottish Premiership Football: Partick Thistle v Aberdeen Aberdeen’s unlikely title charge continues. 7.15pm, BT Sport 2World Club Series Rugby League: St Helens v Sydney Roosters Opening fixture of the six-team event. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1Film choiceMagic Mike (Steven Soderbergh, 2012) 9pm E4Channing Tatum is Tampa Bay stripper Magic Mike. He’s pushing 30, and although club owner Dallas (Matthew McConaughey) wants him to share in a lucrative move to Miami, the arrival of a new star of the posing pouch, Alex Pettyfer’s Adam, starts him thinking there must be more to life. Aims at risky and edgy, is actually cheesy and earnest, but got us in the mood for the sequel, 2015’s Magic Mike XXL. Paul HowlettPride and Prejudice(Joe Wright, 2005) 6.30pm, Film4It is bold to challenge the near-mythical 1995 BBC version with Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth, but director Wright and scriptwriter Deborah Moggach create a lucid, lively and highly enjoyable Austen adaptation. Much of that is down to Keira Knightley. Strictly speaking a little too obviously beautiful for the role of Elizabeth Bennet, she is full of star-quality spirit and wit in her clashes with Matthew Macfadyen’s Darcy. PH