TV Crisis in Six Scenes (new episodes every Friday from 30 September)Will Woody Allen’s first ever TV outing – the one Amazon “badgered and badgered” him into creating for two years – be the cosmic catastrophe he’s chalked it up as? Only a matter of weeks until we find out for certain. The Collection (new episodes every Friday from 2 September)Set in an atelier in postwar Paris, The Collection could soon overtake Mad Men in the stylish TV show stakes. Created by Oliver Goldstick, who also worked on Ugly Betty and Pretty Little Liars, it’s clear from the get-go that there will be gorgeous costumes, wild parties and dark, probably Nazi pasts.Transparent (available from 23 September)Brace yourself for more fun with the Pfeffermans. Maura (Jeffrey Tambor) edges ever closer to gender reassignment surgery, while Sarah sets up a religious movement (and continues to explore her newfound BDSM fetish) and the whole family take a cruise together. Let’s just hope it’s as poignant and brilliant as the last two outings.Halt and Catch Fire (new episodes every Tuesday)It’s high time the cult 80s computer drama broke into the big time. In its third series, punky tech startup Mutiny has moved to California in the nascent days of Silicon Valley and co-founders Donna and Cameron are already tired of the bald, bland West Coast sexism. Meanwhile, former colleagues turned foes Joe and Gordon may have to face that they actually need each other to scale the summit of the tech world. One Mississippi (new episodes every Friday from 9 September)Standup comic turned cult star Tig Notaro has appeared in many TV shows before – from The Office to Community, Transparent to Inside Amy Schumer. Now, she’s created this semi-autobiographical black comedy about a woman returning to her home town as her mother lays dying. FilmsGone with the Wind (available now)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Southern belle Scarlett O’Hara (Vivien Leigh) and lovable rogue Rhett Butler (Clark Gable) … Gone With the Wind. Photograph: Silver Screen Collection/Getty ImagesSouthern belle Scarlett O’Hara (played by Vivien Leigh) and lovable rogue Rhett Butler (Clark Gable) still shine luxuriantly after all these years – in spite of the grotesque politics. All together now: “Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a damn.”Westworld (available 8 September)Before the TV show starring Anthony Hopkins, Thandie Newton and Ed Harris arrives this autumn, catch up on the 1973 Michael Crichton movie about the western theme park where robots help humans live out their dreams. Room (available 9 September)Superb, claustrophobic drama based on Emma Donoghue’s novel about a mother and son kidnapped then imprisoned by a psychotic abuser. Boogie Nights (available 22 September)Mark Wahlberg plays porn superstar Dirk Diggler in Paul Thomas Anderson’s free-wheeling look at the California erotica industry of the 70s and 80s. Trumbo (available 30 September)The story of Dalton Trumbo (played by Bryan Cranston), the most famous victim of the communist witch-hunt that took over Tinseltown in the 1940s and 50s. 