Tom McCarthy’s career encompasses everything from acting (The Wire, Meet the Parents) to directing indie hits (The Station Agent, The Visitor) and brainstorming ideas for Pixar movies (Up, Inside Out). A year ago, he was basking in the Oscars afterglow as his film Spotlight, an old-fashioned drama about the Boston Globe’s groundbreaking investigation into sexual abuse in the Catholic church, bagged Best Picture. With that sort of approbation, you can name your next project, not to mention your price – so it is startling that McCarthy has chosen the Netflix series 13 Reasons Why.Does he appreciate that it looks like a surprising career move? “Um, I guess so,” he sighs. “I don’t really give that a lot of thought. The TV landscape is changing so quickly and I’ve always just followed my interests. It reminds me of the theatre scene when I was a young actor: whether it was London, New York or Chicago, I could wander into a cafe or the room above a pub and find something incredible. That’s how TV is today. There’s so much of it – maybe too much – and you can work in it quickly and get out, which is harder to do in film.” 13 Reasons Why, adapted from Jay Asher’s Young Adult novel about a mysterious high-school suicide, represented a chance for McCarthy to get straight back to work after months on the awards trail, but also to continue his engagement with issue-driven drama. “There were parallels with Spotlight on the level of addressing serious subjects that need to be talked about – suicide, sexual abuse, emotional abuse.”The show is structured around a collection of cassette tapes recorded by Hannah (Katherine Langford) in the days before she kills herself, each one implicating a different person in the list of factors that contributed to her suicide. The precise involvement of the main character, Clay (Dylan Minnette), is not revealed in the first two episodes, both of which were directed by McCarthy (who was also an executive producer on the series). But it is Clay, he says, who will be “really put through the wringer.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   13 Reasons Why, adapted from Jay Asher’s YA novel about the mysterious high-school suicide of Hannah. Photograph: Beth Dubber/NetflixThe difference in shaping drama both for and about teenagers is one of emphasis. “At this point in their lives, they might not have the emotional maturity that we take for granted, and that will affect their decisions. Everything seems magnified and we tried to capture that. ‘Nothing’s going to happen with my life! I’m never gonna meet a guy or girl! If I don’t fit in, my life is over.’ There’s a natural high stakes element. We talked to a lot of girls about the issues, what they would do in Hannah’s situation, would they help, would they be afraid? Then it became clear that this show really needed to reach young men too.” How do you accomplish that? “By making it feel cool and interesting and adult. And by not patronising them.”Initial signs are strong. The high-school setting and inter-generational awkwardness is neatly observed, with parents reluctant to mollycoddle their offspring for fear of being accused of “helicopter parenting” should they hover too close. The most distinctive element, though, is the use of old media as a storytelling tool. Burned by her experiences online, Hannah disseminates her prolonged suicide note on the one medium that cannot easily be shared – this hefty box of 13 tapes has to be passed on physically from one listener to the next. There are even physical sites for Clay to visit, so the cassettes become like an audio guide on an especially morbid walking tour.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Just as Clay binges on Hannah’s cassette tapes, so adolescent viewers are likely to gobble up the episodes on Netflix. Photograph: Beth Dubber/Netflix“There’s something defiant about that,” says McCarthy. “It removes the characters from the confines of their laptops, their phones, their rituals. It sends them off on a quest.” The storytelling device also mirrors how the show will be consumed. Just as Clay binges on Hannah’s tapes, so adolescent viewers are likely to gobble up the episodes. As well as this prioritising of analogue media, the show also boasts 1980s trimmings (adverts for Airplane! at the cinema, the Cure poster on Clay’s wall). After the old-school files and door-stepping reporters in Spotlight, it seems that McCarthy believes things ain’t what they used to be. “Oh, you’re referring to my action shot of a trolley of files going down a hallway in Spotlight?” he chuckles. “What it speaks to, this analogue approach, is craft. Professionals who take the time, do the dirty work, dig in. There’s no short cut, no easy way, with high-level investigative journalism. You had to knock on doors.” He retains an affection for that profession. When I mention that we met nearly 10 years ago while he was in London promoting The Visitor, he strikes a wistful note. “I always love reconnecting with journalists I met a long time ago who are still in the job. It gives me faith.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A post-truth sleazebag in a pre-Trump era … McCarthy as fabricating journalist Scott Templeton in the final season of The Wire. Photograph: APMcCarthy himself played one of television’s least reliable reporters, the scandalous Scott Templeton in the final season of The Wire. Fabricating stories to whip up sizzling copy, he was a post-truth sleazebag in a pre-Trump era. McCarthy tells me the messages he receives now from friends tend to divide equally between those that mention the prescience of The Visitor, which confronted iniquities in the US immigration system long before the current proposed travel ban on Muslim-majority countries, and those invoking The Wire.“I’ve had friends say, ‘Maybe Scott Templeton wasn’t so bad after all,” he says with a rueful laugh. But his response when I mention this year’s Oscars, with its botched Best Picture announcement, is more straightforward. “I’ll be honest. I was just thinking, ‘I’m glad that didn’t happen in my year.’ It was nice to watch from home with no dog in the race. What a mess, huh? It’s sloppy but it’s also human. Just like democracy.”• 13 Reasons Why is on Netflix from 31 March. 