Nick van der Kolk | Love + RadioThis column is about podcast creator Nick van der Kolk. He’s a thoughtful man. He pauses a lot when he speaks, considers what he’s saying as he says it, gives answers that you don’t quite expect.We’re talking on the phone, about when he met a woman in a hotel, a long time ago. “It was clear we were never going to see each other again,” he says. “I commented on how travel gives you a bizarre anti-intimacy and intimacy simultaneously, and she was like, ‘Funny you should mention that, because I have a secret that I’ve only told my two closest friends.’ So I got my recorder…”This is what Van der Kolk does. He gets people to tell him their secret stories. And then he turns them into one of my favourite podcasts: the multi-award-winning Love + Radio.Love + Radio is intimate and strange. Van der Kolk thinks it’s to do with how close the microphone is to the speaker’s mouth. If you listen on headphones, it can feel as though the speaker is talking inside your head. The show plays with that feeling by using unconventional editing techniques. Words are repeated, strange noises murmur beneath, a voice you’ve not heard before suddenly breaks in. It’s woozy, spooky.Van der Kolk, 35, was always interested in audio. As a child growing up in Boston, Massachusetts, he listened to NPR and tapes of BBC dramas. He played The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy so often, he says, “that I knew it off by heart. Especially the first episode. I could download it when I needed it.” He used to run through it in his head while waiting for the bus.His parents were therapists – “it all comes together now, huh?” – which meant that, at home, no topic was considered out of bounds. And this is true of Love + Radio. Van der Kolk’s interviews, and those of the other producers, go deep and honest on subjects most radio stations wouldn’t touch: blackmail, fetishes, paedophilia, crises, people who make an off-beat decision to live their life another way. Gradually, all is revealed, no matter how appalling or sad.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Chris McIntoshVan der Kolk can worry about this. He’s killed episodes before because he’s felt that they might lead to too much grief for the person speaking. He thinks about tone, a lot: L+R’s most recent episode opens with him wondering if the show should change, post-Trump, asking for listeners’ thoughts. And he works hard. He tends to interview the speaker three times, the final time after he’s edited the first two, to record phrases that tell the story more quickly where it’s needed. But the first two talks are long. “Oh yeah,” he says. “I can do eight-, nine-hour interviews easily.”A fellow podcaster once joked to Van der Kolk that Love + Radio should be called “Wait For It”: there’s always a twist, a point where the story swerves in a way you don’t expect. Somehow, it’s always a surprise. The new series begins with a story called A Girl of Ivory. The shift halfway through made me laugh, it was such a shock. Like a rabbit out of the hat, pure entertainment. It makes the programmes stay in your mind. I think often of past episodes, like The Living Room or Points Unknown.For the past couple of years, Love + Radio has been part of Radiotopia, Roman Mars’s hand-picked stable of excellent podcasts that includes Helen Zaltzman’s The Allusionist and Mars’s own 99% Invisible. The Radiotopians don’t hang out, says Van der Kolk, because they all live in different cities, but there is a definite camaraderie. (The podcasting world reminds me of indie music in its heyday: devoted fans, dedicated “label owners”, dogged creators doing their own thing until an audience is revealed.) The show is 11 years old now, and four episodes into its fifth season. It’s not a weekly podcast, and I’m always impatient for more. Should I be excited about episodes to come? Van der Kolk has a think.“Oh there’s one I’m super-excited about,” he says. “I’m working on it with producer Sarah Geis and it’s about a guy who decides early on in his life that he’s not going to pay any attention to news. And as a result of that, he ends up going to Iraq.”That sounds great! I say. From such a mundane decision, too.“Oh,” says Van der Kolk, “you can get a lot of good stories about mundane things. If you just dig deep enough.”