The death of the great comic actor Gene Wilder, at the age of 83, has left fans bereft and struggling for the appropriate superlatives. Many a childhood was enlivened by repeat viewings of Wilder’s perfect Wonka in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, or marveling at Wilder’s alcoholic gunslinging hero in the glorious Western spoof Blazing Saddles.   danazawa 29 August 2016 11:29pmThe best slow-burn comic reaction in movies, the best nervous hysteria in movies, the most sensitive comic presence in movies.I loved Gene Wilder.Our readers discussed their favourite Gene Wilder performances in tribute to the great man. Below you will find a selection of our favourite scenes and comments.1) ‘And so shines a good deed in a weary world...’   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    FirstWorlder 30 August 2016 12:10amIf all he'd ever done was fall on his keys and react to a disproportionate jail sentence, he'd be one of my all-time favourite performers. But he did much more than this. And the definitive Wonka. "And so shines a good deed in a weary world..."2) The entire opening to The Producers   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    SparkyGriswold 30 August 2016 3:08amThe opening 15 minute scene of the Producers (Max and Leo in Max's office, when the whole scheme is hatched) remains to this day one of the funniest single scenes ever put into a movie. Insanely funny and makes you laugh out loud every time you watch it.3) The sheep scene in Woody Allen’s Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    Heavycola 29 August 2016 11:55pmhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B94lP-fZyLk&feature=youtu.be&t=39From the sheep scene in Everything You Ever Wanted To Know Abut Sex ...His reaction is wonderful - such perfect timing. Very talented and funny man. RIP.4) The cell freakout scene in ‘Stir Crazy’Wilder’s turns with Richard Pryor in a series of buddy comedies may not have lived up to his earlier films in the eyes of the critics, but they were glorious parts of many a 1980s childhood, mine included.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    Groundhog_Phil 29 August 2016 11:51pmScene which had me absolutely crying with laughter the first time I saw it: In Stir Crazy when Skip is in his cell, I think he's crapping himself because he's intimidated by Grossberger. He's sitting on the floor going "Oh sheeeee, oh sheeeee, oh sheeeee...." But making it look like he's meditating or something.Wonderful, hilarious, madcap acting, can't imagine anyone doing it better.5) ‘Most people call me... Jim’   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    silverbeech 29 August 2016 10:15pm"Well, my name is Jim, but most people call me... Jim."Everyone is leaving us. Thanks for all the talent, and all the laughs.   Tflow68 30 August 2016 12:00am"A Man drink like that and he don't eat, he is going to die"...."When"?6) ‘You are GOOD!’   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest    RUwithmeDrWu 29 August 2016 10:34pmI loved him so. I think the funniest few minutes in film history are the scene in Young Frankenstein where he convinces them (Marty Feldman, Cloris Leachman, Terri Garr) to lock him in with the monster (Peter Boyle). Wilder speaks beautifully, the only thing that will save that creature is love....then the second the monster awakens Wilder heads back to the door...."open the door open the door..." This is where I'm cracking up. Then Wilder swallows his fear and amazingly wins the monster over "You are .... GOOD!" "This is a good boy, this is a momma's angel..." Oh my god. So great. Bless you Gene Wilder.