Inside Cern: A Horizon Special 8pm, BBC2A special episode focusing on recent progress by the boffins at Cern – the Swiss-based operators of the Large Hadron Collider. Last year, after running the contraption at its highest energy, a small bump in the data was detected, leading to speculation that a new sub-atomic particle might have been discovered. Horizon has been filming this story from the inside, and can be expected to do its usual sterling job of rendering the abstruse accessible. Andrew MuellerWild Animal Reunions 8pm, ITVOver the past few weeks, we’ve seen elephants, chimps, cheetahs and even sharks reunited with their two-legged pals in this hooting, screeching, Tiggerish take on Surprise Surprise. And how utterly lovely it’s been. In this final episode, the emotional menagerie includes rhinos, lions, some wild deer and a pangolin. What’s a pangolin, you say? Well, we’re glad you asked, seeing as it’s one of the world’s most endangered species. Let’s go all in for the pangolin. Ali CatterallVersailles 9pm, BBC2It’s au revoir for now to the big-budget drama, and what started out as a saucy little romp is going out with a bang in this brutal finale. There have been after-dinner orgies, controversial dwarves and a bit of trouble with the builders, but now the action steps up a gear. Never one to play it safe, that young saucepot Sophie (Maddison Jaizani) risks the wrath of beady-eyed henchman Marchal (Tygh Runyan). Elsewhere, the traitor changes tactics and there’s enough action to end the series in eye-opening style. Hannah VerdierBritain’s Benefit Tenants9pm, Channel 4Yet more tales from the sharp end of the benefits system – Channel 4 seems to be parking its tanks on Channel 5’s lawn with this new series following the work of letting agencies that specialise in dealing with tenants on benefits. Tonight we see former pub landlord Rob trying to deal with tenants who damage and then abandon properties. We also follow Caroline, who finds herself drawn into a domestic argument in Hartlepool. Phil HarrisonYounger 9pm, Sony ChannelThis warm-hearted, occasionally raunchy comedy from Sex and the City creator Darren Star revolves around Liza (Sutton Foster), a 40-year-old divorcee who has reinvented herself as a New York publishing executive complete with hunky tattooed toyboy. The only problem? All her work colleagues think she’s 26. If it sounds complicated, Liza actually draws us all a diagram to explain her two lives in the first half of tonight’s double bill. Graeme VirtueMan Down 10pm, Channel 4 Greg Davies’s amiable sitcom reaches the penultimate episode of its third season. The sound of the Star-Spangled Banner fades into the background as Dan’s discovery of his adoption certificate sinks in and his mind wanders to the life he could have led. A good time to escape from the squalor of his adoptive family and take to the beach with Jo (Roisin Conaty) – a trip that also appeals to Brian’s children, at least when the only other option available is a dull day out with their fastidious father (Mike Wozniak). Mark Gibbings-JonesUranium: Twisting the Dragon’s Tail 10pm, EdenIt would be easy to sneer and bridle at Dr Derek Muller, presenter of this history of uranium. With his bright teeth, clipped beard and mystic gaze, he has the air of a Vegas magician – and his producers aren’t afraid to illustrate nuclear energy with a CGI dragon. Beneath the bluster, though, Muller’s explanation of radioactivity and the bomb is lucid and digestible. Tomorrow’s more controversial second part tackles nuclear power. Jack SealeFilm choiceThe Deer Hunter (Michael Cimino, 1978) 11pm, ITV4An epic account of the Vietnam war as experienced by three Pennsylvanian steelworkers. Cimino initially dwells poignantly on a communal wedding celebration before plunging his characters into the hell of battle and its harrowing aftermath – Russian roulette gambling in backstreet Saigon. This is war as blue-collar tragedy, with immense performances from Robert De Niro, Christopher Walken, Meryl Streep and all. Paul HowlettNosferatu The Vampyre (Werner Herzog, 1979) 1.15am, Film4A reverent homage to FW Murnau’s 1922 horror film from producer, writer and director Werner Herzog. His remake of the silent, creepy classic replicates Murnau’s chilling images scene by scene. Bruno Ganz and Isabelle Adjani are the vampire-cursed Harkers, while Klaus Kinski’s Dracula is a terrifying, ghoulish abomination, very much in the Max Schreck mould. PHOlympic choiceRowers Helen Glover and Heather Stanning are anything but lackadaisical. Gold medallists in 2012, Stanning is a major in the army, while Glover describes her personal bests as “terrible”. With a bit of luck, they’ll pass through the coxless pair semi-finals (12.30pm, BBC2). Japanese gymnast Kōhei Uchimura looks to retain his Olympic all-around title (8pm, BBC1), and hopes are high for Team GB in the men’s rugby sevens quarters (9pm, BBC4). Amy Walker