I was thrilled to receive a copy of The Art of Being Normal after winning a Guardian children’s books site competition, as I’d wanted to read it for ages and had a feeling that I would absolutely love it. I wasn’t wrong.A sad but true fact is that I have never read a book with a transgender main character until The Art of Being Normal. In fact, it’s the only YA mainstream book I’ve seen with a transgender main character. Hopefully, with books such as this one, we will begin to grow out of the default straight, white, cisgender characters that dominate the shelves and expand the horizons of YA diversity, which has been happening more and more in recent times. The book follows two very different boys, David and Leo, who are each hiding a secret. David dreams of being a girl, whilst Leo just wants to be invisible and forget about his past. The two become the most unlikely of friends after Leo sticks up for David against a bully, and their lives start to change.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Every once in a while, I’ll come across a book that will make me feel all multitudes of emotions at the same time – in this case, The Art of Being Normal. It really is something beautiful. It’s touching, funny, eye-opening and so well told. Lisa Williamson really understands what it’s like to be a teenager in the modern age, and how we can be both great friends and, sadly, bullies at times. Sometimes stories with LGBT+ characters can often end in tragedy due to different circumstances, and of course I’m not criticising that, as sadly it does happen all too often. But this story just seemed… well, very real. It captured David and Leo’s struggles with fitting in, and showed the challenge of being a transgender person in a time when many people still hold so much prejudice. It had so many issues that were handled brilliantly: the divide in social class in a small town, which reminded me very much of where I live; the labels we put on people before we even know them; how we automatically associate behaviours to a certain gender or sexuality; and even how things such as our skin colour can make us stick out in a new place. Yet none of these issues ever detracted from the story. It flowed so well, and I was constantly intrigued as to what would happen to these characters I had come to care about so much.Lisa Williamson: 'I have met so many young transgender people living happy, hopeful lives' The Art of Being Normal even explained the confusion and angst of the teenage experience perfectly; the unrequited crushes, the boredom and the friends we make who change our lives. I found myself whispering to myself, “She understands, she understands, an author who actually knows  how it feels to be a teenager!” Only a few authors have made me do that, which is another reason why this book is so wonderful. Everyone should read The Art of Being Normal, regardless of gender identity, sexuality or age. It reminds us to celebrate our differences, as these are what makes us special. Even though the book can be sad at times, it’s also sometimes hilarious, and ultimately uplifting. You’ll find yourself rooting for David and Leo, who are both beautifully written, well-rounded characters, and exult in their triumphs.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? If you have ever felt different, like you don’t belong, like you stick out – read this book. If you don’t, read it anyway. Read it to your parents, your grandparents, your dog, your cat, anyone who’ll listen. Because this book has a hugely important message about friendship, equality and acceptance which sadly isn’t prevalent in a lot of YA literature. But here it is, and it deserves all the praise it gets.• Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!