The life of the professional novelist is an agreeable one: you make your own hours, you do your best work in your pyjamas and Ugg boots, and no boss glares at you when you have crisps and Guinness for lunch. The only occasion when things can get a little tricky is when the dreaded writer’s block comes a-calling. I’ve always liked the Charles Bukowski solution: “Writing about writer’s block is better than not writing at all.”Unfortunately, that doesn’t really work when you’re a mystery novelist. Last August I had a deadline looming and the solution to the ending of my book was nowhere in sight. I decided that I wasn’t the problem: the problem was my family, with their annoying requests for daddy time, food and so on.Mark Twain, Roald Dahl, Virginia Woolf – among others – used to write in sheds at the bottom of their gardens into which no one was allowed to enter. George Orwell went further and moved to a damp, isolated hut on the Hebridean island of Jura to finish Nineteen Eighty-Four. Ingmar Bergman wrote and storyboarded most of his scripts on the small island of Faro, north of Gotland, where he drank only buttermilk and ate biscuits: all good acts to follow if you think solitude fuels creativity.But my model was Henry Thoreau, who moved to a cabin near Walden Pond, Massachusetts and lived and wrote far from the distractions of modern life. Well, reasonably far – he did cheat a bit by walking to his mum’s house to eat his dinner and get his laundry done. Still, the idea was a good one. I would get a cabin in the woods and, thus inspired and focused, I would easily cure my writer’s block and finish my book.I live in Melbourne, Australia and from there Tasmania is only A$59 (£30) and one hour away, by plane. From Hobart, I caught the bus south as far as it would it go and ended up in the little hamlet of Dover. From there, I walked to a campsite where I’d reserved a cabin under the name Adrian (no credit card or surname required).The cabin was suitably isolated and remote: a plywood affair on the edge of a eucalypt forest, equipped only with a gas cooker, a bunk bed, a desk and a shower. No internet, no wireless, no distractions. It was perfect. I plugged in my computer and went for a walk. It was a lovely afternoon, quiet, with not a soul in sight. I strolled past a charming little bakery and took a photograph of the gorgeous harbour. I had nothing but praise for my decision-making. I loftily recalled my Edward Gibbon: “Conversation enriches the understanding, but solitude is the school of genius.” I was going to get really good work done in this place. To add to my hunger, cold and lack of sleep, I began to hallucinate. That, more or less, is when the rain started. It did not stop for the next three days – three days of bone-chillingly cold rain that had come up from a low pressure system over the Antarctic. I ran back to the cabin, where I discovered that it was usually only rented out in summer; it came with no heater or fireplace. That night I was so cold I turned on the cooker’s gas ring, letting the flickering blue flame try vainly to warm the place a little.Fearing death by asphyxiation and shivering constantly, I got no sleep at all. I was too exhausted to work the next day, so I trudged into town to discover that the sole restaurant in the place had burned to the ground, the pub was closed and the baker had left after his wife had died suddenly. The convenience store sold only baked beans and beer, so I bought beans and a six pack and walked back to my freezing cabin through the apocalyptic, unceasing, Ray Bradbury-esque downpour. That night it was so cold that it snowed in the mountains to the west (a rarity in that part of Tasmania) and I again slept with the gas ring on.Next morning, I was exhausted and homesick. Getting no phone signal anywhere, I fed 50 cent pieces into a weird Bakelite payphone that somehow had survived for decades in a forest car park. My wife told me that the only bus of the day back to Hobart was leaving in 25 minutes. I packed quickly and ran through the rain to the bus stop.The bus driver, seeing no one at the stand, had left early. Miserable, soaked and desperate, I bought another six pack and plodded back through the deluge to that fucking cabin.I spend a third night there. To add to my hunger, cold and lack of sleep, I began to hallucinate. I felt there was someone watching me from the forest, an escaped lunatic lying in wait for me to drift into sleep so he could come in and kill me.The next day I was at the bus stand an hour early.Why writing doesn't have to be a lonely struggle Drenched, very cold and behind on my work by another four days, I arrived back in Melbourne that night, giving my bemused children teary-eyed hugs as if I’d survived a shipwreck.I ended up finishing the book the way professionals finish their books: by getting up early, sitting at a desk and getting the work done before breakfast. Solitude may be the school of genius but if you’re looking to cure writer’s block or meet a deadline, it isn’t everyone’s cup of tea.