When I set out to write the book that would become Rebel of the Sands, all I had was a vague notion about a girl who was a sharpshooter on the run with a boy. That was all it was for the longest time. I had the idea that the world they were in was the Wild West, but not the real Wild West, another less historical, more fantastical version of it. And then I decided, while sleepless one night, to cross the Wild West with the Arabian Nights, and suddenly the whole book started falling into place. As the setting came into focus as a desert where magic and modernism are competing, so did the plot, and the characters’ motivations, and the stakes of the story.Free read! Rebel of the Sands by Alwyn Hamilton The world is essential, from what clothes you put your characters in to what types of monsters they face along the way, and what weapons they have to face them with. Oh yeah, and it all has to be original but also make sense. You don’t want your reader to start picking holes in the logic of an invented world, but you don’t want to make it so similar to others that people are left wondering why it isn’t just set in Tudor England to spare everyone having to remember made-up names. Easy right?World building isn’t just limited to fantasy either. Dystopian, sci-fi, alternate history and paranormal, all have the job of convincing the reader that this is a world that could really exist, somewhere, out there, over the sea, out of the corner of your eye, for the next few hundred pages. And if they’re done right, you can feel like you’re being let in on a glimpse of a universe with infinite possibilities, that you are both immersed in and familiar with, but also anxious to explore more of.Women in fantasy – the children's books podcast I think of all the best stories in imagined worlds as being a bit like icebergs. Which is to, say we see a small section of the world in that story, but there is always the sense that there is way more of it underneath, bearing up this story and maybe waiting to be discovered in future stories. So these are my top 10 worlds which are so fully realised, I suspect they all hold as many stories as our world does, and all of which have influenced me in some way.1) The Blue Sword by Robin McKinleyI will never forget The Blue Sword; it was the first fantasy book I read in which the world didn’t resemble medieval Europe. Instead of castles and knights there were almost modern-feeling houses, set on the contested desert border between the Homeland and the mysterious kingdom of Damar. When Harry Crewe is kidnapped by the King of Damar and starts a desert crossing the world we get to discover through her eyes is filled with elements that make it seem real, from horses guided without reins to the rich tradition of the King’s Personal Guard of Riders. And then there’s the history and legends of Lady Aerin, which is so rich that McKinley wrote a whole prequel to really delve into her at her Dragon-Slaying Best.Charlie Higson's top 10 fantasy books for children 2) The Legend Trilogy by Marie LuThe world in Marie Lu’s trilogy is our own, in the future. What sets this world apart from other dystopian worlds for me is that it is a whole world. While the first book stays in the oppressive regime of Los Angeles, the rest of the series opens the world up and we get to see other parts of the world which have evolved in clever and realistic ways, but we also get to see the outside world’s views of the oppressive government which seems so mighty from the inside. The whole thing adds up the most complex well-realised future world I can think of.3) The Winner’s Curse by Marie RutkoskiThe Winner’s Curse brings something to the shelf I had never seen before, a wholly invented world without any magic. The Valorian Empire parallels the Roman Empire as much as the Napoleonic attempt at an empire in Europe, and the enslaved country of Heran has echoes of a conquered Greece, but this world is all its own. There’s a Pantheon of unique Gods which are part of the daily vocabulary of the characters, and the invented strategy game of bite and sting, which pepper the world so effortlessly that it seems impossible they aren’t all real. This world kind of defies the traditional fantasy label for me, but the invented world is put to great use to raise the stakes of both an all-out war and the fate of two characters in love, in a way that just can’t be done in books set in our world, where we already know the outcome of history before the end of the story.4) Nimona by Noelle StevensonI initially read what is now the fantastic complete graphic novel Nimona week by week when it was coming out serialized online. What started out as a seemingly simple comic about a girl with a propensity for transforming into a shark with legs, quickly evolved into one of the most interesting mergers of technology and magic I’ve ever read about. Knights in armour wield energy guns in castles equipped with high tech labs. Even Nimona’s initially quirky magical shapeshifting turns to something much more sinister when science gets involves.Top 10 parallel worlds in fiction 5) The Grishaverse by Leigh BardugoThe Grishaverse started off in the Russian-inspired kingdom of Ravka in Shadow and Bone. The kingdom of Ravka on its own is fully realised, its magic system so well articulated it’s easy to believe it has been in place for generations, and it is easy to believe in the saints and legends that fill the country’s history. But what really made Ravka a believable country for me was that it never existed in a bubble. As readers we always knew there were other countries in play beyond the borders, all with their different takes on magic, some seeing it as an abomination, some worshipping it, some seeing it as a business opportunity. And from those countries came wares, travellers, immigrants, wars, and, eventually, ourselves as the reader got to explore them too.Leigh Bardugo: 'I guess I'm a little bloodthirsty' – children's books podcast 6) The Enchanted Forrest Chronicles by Patricia C WredeAfter years of fairytale kingdoms that never made all that much sense, here was a world that gave logic to the trope! The series kicks off when the un-princess-like Princess Cimorene goes off to willingly indenture herself to a Dragon, bringing nothing but handkerchiefs and promises of cherry jubilee with her. Not only does this open a fascinating world of Dragon Politics but we finally get to see how captured princesses fill their time (sending away their would-be rescuers and negotiating with Genies, since I know you were wondering). It just gets better with magic swords defeating clogged drains, and a Rumpelstiltskin type who has found himself accidentally running a too-expensive foster home for all the first-born children he has accumulated because of their parents not being able to guess his name. Every cracked world which subverts the fairytale tropes since, from Shrek to “The Heroes Guide to Saving your Kingdom” owes a debt to the world created by Wrede in my mind.7) The Leviathan Trilogy by Scott WesterfeldSet in an alternate version of our world, Leviathan starts in Europe in 1914 with the advent of the Great War – except in this version the Darwinists face off against the Clankers. One faction has evolved animals into war machines, like a flying whale for an airship, and the other relies on machines, such as giant robot walkers. This alternate world makes great use of our actual history, but what makes it exceptional is how well thought out all the invented technology is! From the inner workings of the flying whale ship, to the Turkish, slightly undecided in the war, straddling the line between technology and biology. And everything is brought to life in stunning illustrations scattered through.Paul Magrs's top 10 sci-fi sagas for teens 8) Crown & Court Series by Sherwood SmithI have recently been led to understand that the world in Sherwood Smith’s brilliant duology is supposed to be ours, set far in the future on a distant planet, where the magic is alien science. This would certainly explain why they share many touchstones with our world, while also having two moons for the characters to gaze up at and trees willing to exact revenge. But the true magic in these books for me is in the complexities of the ballroom. Smith has created a complete court to rival Versailles in intrigue, with fan language, complicated symbolism woven covertly into jewelry, long lineage that gives you the feeling every character does have a twisting family tree, and old traditions so tangible you’re sure they must have been in fashion once in our world too.9) Vortex by S J KincaidThis is another future version of our world, though more sci-fi than dystopia. In the first few pages it tells us it’s ready to disprove Einstein when he famously said “I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones”. World War III is being fought in space, by machines controlled by teenagers with computer enhanced brains. The world of the Instrasolar Forces training Academy is brilliantly drawn but what really sells this future world is that governments seem totally absent and instead the war is between national coalitions controlled and sponsored on each side by huge corporations. Seeing that in action is fascinating and terrifying at once. And the payoff for how the world evolves in the third book (no spoilers!) makes it one of cleverest world building slights of hand I’ve ever seen.Why YA fiction is a dark mirror reflecting our own real lives 10) The Girl of Fire and Thorns by Rae CarsonIt feels only appropriate to both open and close this list with a sprawling desert kingdom. Joya D’Arena and its neighbours are all drawn so visually its easy to picture the sun over the Spanish-inspired capital and to drool over the food served in the palace kitchens. But what really sold me on this world was the sense that it had existed long before we got there as readers and will exist long after we leave. Princess Elisa is the latest in a long, sometimes unhappy, tradition of “chosen ones”. Following Elisa as she learns more about the other chosen, as well as getting to grips with the complicated current political situation, is what makes the reader feel truly immersed in the world right along side her as she sets out to save it.Alwyn Hamilton’s thrilling desert fantasy Rebel of the Sands is this month’s Teen book club read.