The identities of the six finalists in the 2015 Costa short story award have been revealed – allowing the public, who have been judging the anonymised tales “blind”, to see who they have been voting for, ahead of the winner’s announcement next week.Rupert Thomson, whose memoir This Party’s Got to Stop won the Writers’ Guild award for non-fiction in 2010, appears on the shortlist with a story told in the voice of William Burroughs’s common-law wife, Joan Vollmer. The playwright and author Peggy Riley makes the list with The Night Office, in which Galileo’s second daughter reflects on life from her nunnery cell, while the fitness instructor and writer Annalisa Crawford explores time and memory on a Cornish beach in Watching the Storms Roll In.Crawford, whose novella Cat and the Dreamer was published in 2012, said it was a “huge honour” to have reached the shortlist.“Seeing the names for the first time this morning has been really interesting,” she said. “I’ve been Googling. It’s a strong list, and the stories are all so good. I’m really excited to be included among them.”The two months between hearing that her story had been selected and being able to talk about it have been very peculiar, Crawford said. “Normally, when an author receives good news, they shout about it. A lot. So it’s been very strange, and I’m just relieved it’s over.”The award is “hugely important in raising the profile of writers, especially those who are predominantly short story writers,” she added. “The anonymous nature of this competition means everyone has the same chance – the stories have to stand for themselves.”The shortlist was assembled, from more than 1,000 anonymous submissions, by a panel of judges including the writers Raffaella Barker, Richard Beard and Fanny Blake as well as the founder of Short Stories Aloud, Sarah Franklin, and the literary agent Simon Trewin. The stories were published on the Costa prize website in November, allowing readers to read the texts, listen to audio versions and take part in a public vote. The ballot closed before the identities of the shortlisted authors were revealed, but all six stories are still available on the site.Crawford, Thomson and Riley are joined on the shortlist by Niall Bourke, who evokes a struggling Mexican market trader in Gerardo Dreams of Chillies; Danny Murphy, who paints a portrait of a troubled life in Rogey, and Erin Soros, who appears on the shortlist for the second time with Fallen, a story exploring the reverberations of a logging accident.Richard Beard, one of the judges, said the 60 longlisted stories were “uniformly competent, sometimes depressingly so”.“Although the entries are filtered before the judges read the final 60, it would have been good to read more stories that dared to fail,” he said, saying most of the entries “take place in Short Story Land, a country no one will ever visit. For good reason – what an exhausting place, where everyone has some kind of quirk.”Beard said he thought the anonymous nature of the judging process revealed a different selection of names and stories to other prizes. “The final list is an intriguing mix of writers, from those starting out to established published authors,” he said. “The anonymity of the Costa prize means we judge the story and not the author profile. For all writers this should feel like a reassuring incidence in publishing of a level playing field.”The writer who tops the public vote will receive a £3,500 prize at next week’s Costa awards ceremony, with £1,000 for the author in second place and £500 for third. Previous winners of the prize include Avril Joy, who won the inaugural award in 2012 with Millie and Bird, Angela Readman and last year’s winner, Zoe Gilbert.The 2015 Costa short story award shortlistGerardo Dreams of Chillies by Niall BourkeWatching the Storms Roll In by Annalisa CrawfordRogey by Danny MurphyThe Night Office by Peggy RileyFallen by Erin SorosTo William Burroughs, from His Wife by Rupert Thomson