Five of the best… theatre shows this week1 Dead FunnyTerry Johnson’s 1994 comedy about the members of the Dead Funny Society, an appreciation club devoted to the all-time greats of British comedy, is by turns both monstrously funny and painfully sad. The play takes place in the living room of Eleanor and Richard, a couple whose marriage has long been sterile, and where a meeting has been called following the death of Benny Hill. The mixture of farce and brutal emotional exposure is hard to navigate but Johnson and a cast that includes Katherine Parkinson ensure that this is in no danger of being a custard pie.Vaudeville Theatre, WC2, to 4 Feb2 AmadeusMichael Longhurst’s revival of Peter Shaffer’s 1979 hit is all opulence and unabashed vulgarity. Adam Gillen is the prodigiously talented but charmless Mozart whose arrival threatens the pre-eminence of court composer Salieri (a compelling Lucian Msamati). The latter knows that his studious, painstaking compositions could easily be eclipsed by those of the young whippersnapper.National Theatre: Olivier, SE1, Mon to 18 Mar3 An Inspector CallsStephen Daldry’s reinvention of JB Priestley’s rep staple first lit up the National Theatre in 1992. In it, the mysterious inspector’s arrival disrupts the Birlings’ dinner party and implicates them all in the suicide of a young woman. Like Priestley himself, Daldry plays games with time, alighting on the fact that the play was written in 1945 but set in 1912 and intended as a message to the future.Playhouse Theatre, WC2, to 4 Feb4 What I Learned From Johnny BevanLuke Wright’s clever monologue was first seen in Edinburgh in 2015, but this affecting coming-of-age tale remains pertinent, particularly in the light of current Labour party woes. It charts the relationship of sheltered middle-class Nick who falls under the spell of charismatic Johnny Bevan at university, a young man confident that the socialist revolution is imminent. It’s a story of friendship and how easily ideals get lost along the way.Colstock Hall, Colstock, Sat; Lakeside Arts Centre, Nottingham, Wed; Stamford Arts Centre, Thu; touring to 16 Dec5 Cinderella: A FairytaleSally Cookson’s delightful take on Cinderella was first seen in Bristol in 2011, and its success both there and in London, where it was nominated for an Olivier award, provided a rocket boost to Cookson’s career. Deservedly so: this is a wonderful ensemble show, and one that is genuinely enchanting.Tobacco Factory, Bristol, Fri to 15 JanThree of the best… dance shows this week      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   4. Michael Keegan-Dolan’s Swan Lake. Photograph: Colm Hogan1 National Ballet Of ChinaFirst seen at the Edinburgh festival, this lavish two-act adaptation of 16th-century Chinese love story The Peony Pavilion is a beautifully crafted fusion of east and west. The Lowry, Salford, Sat; Sadler’s Wells, EC1, Tue to 3 Dec2 Michael Keegan-Dolan: Swan Lake / Loch na hEala The excellent Keegan-Dolan works yet another classic into his own raucously poetic mix of Irish myth and contemporary realism.Sadler’s Wells, EC2, Sat3 The Nutcracker Conjuring tricks and grownup magic in Peter Wright’s engagingly traditional version of the Christmas classic, performed by Birmingham Royal BalletBirmingham Hippodrome, to 13 Dec