Jo Brand’s Hell of a Walk for Sport Relief9pm, BBC1Jo Brand is 58 and has a BMI of 41. Can she walk from the Humber Bridge to Liverpool in a week, for Sport Relief? It’s 20 miles a day, and the route takes in peaty mud, the Peak District and, in one particularly cruel instance, a stile. Brand’s left leg goes on strike immediately, and she has a mixed attitude to well-wishers. Lighter moments include Billy Bragg serenading her with Waiting for the Great Leap Forwards and a man in Hexthorpe letting Brand stop at his house for a poo. Jack SealeMurder9pm, BBC2Does it matter who actually pulled the trigger when your father has been gunned down? This is the question at the heart of the final drama in the Murder strand, which offers four perspectives on a botched robbery and the death of PC Stuart Durridge. The technique of characters talking directly to camera is intense, notably when Durridge’s traumatised daughter – 10 years on, serving time in a young offender institution – relives what happened; yet there’s subtlety, too, in the way the testimonies knit together. Jonathan WrightSpeed With Guy Martin: F1 Special9pm, Channel 4With Formula One set to roar on to C4 this weekend, not to mention as a spoiler for the rebooted Top Gear and forthcoming digi-Clarkson vehicle, Guy Martin takes on racing great David Coulthard in a series of challenges pitting car against bike. With Guy grabbing his Tyco BMW Superbike and David leaping into a V8 Red Bull Supercar for a number of high-velocity contests, this could prove once and for all whether it’s two wheels good, four wheels bad. Mark Gibbings-Jones@elevenish11pm, ITV2This topical comedy show brings together young British comics, including Dane Baptiste, Ivo Graham, Rhys James, Ellie White and Jamie Demetriou. It feels like a scattershot ensemble, but makes slightly more sense when you learn this is being positioned as a reboot of The 11 O’Clock Show, the late-90s format that helped to shape the current comedy mainstream by employing everyone from Ricky Gervais to Sacha Baron Cohen, David Mitchell, Robert Webb, Charlie Brooker and Robert Popper. Rachel AroestiBear Grylls: Mission Survive9pm, ITVIf you were in the bush with your organs failing, would you trust Michelle Collins and Neil Morrissey with your life? It’s a dilemma that Grylls aims to answer as this week he puts the celebrity survivors to the test. Meg Hine, the woman who out-Grylls the Bear, pretends to be seriously injured so the celebrities must build a stretcher to get her to safety. They also learn about what’s safe to eat from the land as food rations run low and climb a 50ft mud wall, before one is sent home. Hannah VerdierStewart Lee’s Comedy Vehicle10pm, BBC2Stew looks at patriotism this week, in particular our difficult relationship with the St George’s flag and what it has come to represent. He’s revered – and rightly so – for his lengthy, repetitive, borderline operatic gags but, unfortunately, it’s questionable whether the 20 minutes or so spent relating a story about his cat – called Jeremy Corbyn – and an exhausting case of its violent diarrhoea is worth the investment. It all feels a bit leaden come the punchline. But even at his worst, he’s still better than most. Ben ArnoldThe Venture Bros11pm, FOXIf you’ve been enjoying Adult Swim’s kinky, offbeat spoof of classic Hanna-Barbera cartoons, this one-hour special – set in a lavish orbiting casino that resembles the Love Boat in space – brings together almost every character from the first five seasons for an Ocean’s Eleven-style mega-caper. Among the parade of deluded and self-sabotaging rogues, there’s the welcome return of Colonel Gentleman, a bluff, gruff Sean Connery analogue who enjoys sauna encounters, plus an unexpected cameo from “David Bowie”. Graeme VirtueFilm ChoiceQuadrophenia (Franc Roddam, 1979), 12.15am, ITV4Roddam’s screen version of the Who’s rock opera is an excellent recreation of a seedy, sultry, angry time – the mods v rockers seaside clashes of 1964. Phil Daniels leads the way as Jimmy, a pill-popping rebel on a scooter, and there are vigorous performances from Ray Winstone, Leslie Ash, Sting and Toyah Willcox. Plus, of course, Pete Townshend’s explosive music. Paul HowlettThe Long Kiss Goodnight (Renny Harlin, 1996), 12.20am, TCMFrenetic, action-packed and unbelievable thriller that works largely thanks to the offbeat pairing of Geena Davis, as an ordinary American mom who overcomes a memory block to rediscover her past life as government assassin, and Samuel L Jackson as a cheap gumshoe with an acute sense of humour. Patrick Malahide and Craig Bierko are the villains who fear Davis remembers too much. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportWomen’s T20 World Cup Cricket: England v Bangladesh England’s women in action followed by Sri Lanka v a qualifier in the men’s tournament. 9.30am, Sky Sports 2Racing: Cheltenham Festival Coverage of the National Hunt festival. 12.35pm, Channel 4Rugby League Superleague: Wigan Warriors v Widnes Vikings From the DW Stadium. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2Formula 1: Australian Grand Prix Practice The first practice session of the season. 1am, Sky Sports 1