The cleanup of an unknown amount of thick, sticky oil that spilled into the Galveston Bay blocked traffic on Sunday between the Gulf of Mexico and one of the world's busiest petrochemical transportation waterways, affecting all vessels, even cruise ships.A barge carrying nearly a million gallons of marine fuel oil collided with a ship on Saturday afternoon, springing a leak. Officials believe only one of the barge's tanks – which holds 168,000 gallons, was breached, though Coast Guard Petty Officer Andy Kendrick said on Sunday it was not clear how much oil spilled.Crews were skimming oil out of the water and containment booms were brought in to protect environmentally sensitive areas of the Houston ship channel, Kendrick said. The ship channel is closed from the mouth of the Houston ship channel, between Galveston Island and Bolivar Peninsula, Coast Guard Lt Sam Danus said."Unified command is aware of the situation and is communicating with the cruise ship companies," Danus said.The area is home to popular bird habitats, especially during the approaching migratory shorebird season, but Kendrick said there have been no reports of wildlife being impacted.The Texas City dyke, a popular fishing spot that goes out into the Gulf for a few miles, is also closed. Lee Rilat, 58, owns Lee's Bait and Tackle, the last store before the access road to the dyke, which was blocked by a police car on a breezy, overcast Sunday. If it were not for the spill, Rilat's business would be hopping."This would be the first spring deal, the first real weekend for fishing," Rilat said. He says ships and barges have collided before, but this is the first time – at least this year – that someone has sprung a leak. His wife, Brenda Rilat, said sea fog was hanging over the bay on Saturday.Rilat, who has lived in the area most of his life, does not think the spill is too significant. "It'll be fine. Everything's going to be lovely. Mother Nature takes care of its own," he said.The collision was still being investigated, the Coast Guard said.The captain of the 585ft ship, Summer Wind, reported the spill just after noon on Saturday. Six crew members from the tow vessel, which was going from Texas City to Bolivar, were injured, the Coast Guard said.Kirby Inland Marine, which owns the tow vessel and barge, is working with the Texas General Land Office and many other federal, state and nonprofit agencies to respond to the spill, the Coast Guard said. Tara Kilgore, an operations coordinator with Kirby Inland Marine, declined to comment on Saturday.Jim Suydam, spokesman for the Texas General Land Office, described the type of oil the barge was carrying as "sticky, gooey, thick, tarry stuff". "That stuff is terrible to have to clean up," he said.Richard Gibbons, the conservation director of the Houston Audubon Society, said there is important shorebird habitat on both sides of the ship channel. One is the Bolivar Flats Shorebird Sanctuary just to the east, which Gibbons said attracts 50,000 to 70,000 shorebirds to shallow mud flats that are perfect foraging habitat."The timing really couldn't be much worse since we're approaching the peak shorebird migration season," Gibbons said. He added that tens of thousands of wintering birds remain in the area.Monday marks the 25th anniversary of the Exxon Valdez spill off the coast of Alaska. Suydam said that spill spurred the creation of the General Land Office's oil spill and prevention division, which is funded by a tax on imported oil that the state legislature passed after the Valdez spill.