Malawi’s critically endangered national tree, the Mulanje cedars, are a minuscule, dwindling fraction of the world’s 3tn trees. These rare trees grow atop a single imposing granite massif, Mount Mulanje, where illegal loggers are axing them to extinction.The Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust (MMCT) aims to reverse the cedar’s decline. With funding from international donors, it has provided forest guards, boosted tourism and organised an unprecedented tree-planting campaign.Rumoured to be the inspiration for Tolkien’s Lonely Mountain, Mount Mulanje, with its perpetual cloud cover, has a mystical ambience. Its namesake tree, grows to 50 metres, has pleasantly fragrant pale red wood and its sap is poisonous to insects and repels fungus and rot. These qualities make the trees rare and precious, commanding a hefty timber price. For over a century, the wood has been used heavily in construction, woodworking and Lake Malawi’s boat industry. Colonial British rule over Nyasaland brought commercial exploitation of the cedars from 1898 to 1955, but it also established Mulanje Mountain forest reserve. Today, protection of the reserve falls to Malawi’s pitifully underfunded, understaffed and corrupt forestry department, still reeling after the so-called “cashgate” scandal dried up funding.The fight to save the Malawi's endangered cedars – in pictures Illegal logging is rampant. Minions of tree-poaching kingpins stream down the mountain with impunity, barefoot and balancing 10ft, hand-hewn beams of precious timber on their heads. They haul the heavy contraband over treacherous terrain for 600 kwacha per day (70p). Freshly-cut stumps scar the plateau like a pox.“Half the mountain is completely logged. Cedar forests remain on the eastern side only,” said Dr Tembo Chanyenga of the Forest Research Institute of Malawi. Yet even there, upwards of 40% of standing cedars are dead. Two areas that had large stands of cedar in 2004 have since been picked clean.Natural regeneration is rare due to high seedling mortality, limited seeds and fire. When Chanyenga surveyed the mountain in 2013, he found just seven seedlings that had matured into saplings. “Natural regeneration is too low to maintain a cedar population on the mountain. Artificial regeneration is the only viable option,” he said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An illegal logger carries a beam of Mulanje cedar down the mountain. Most walk barefoot and work for very low wages. Photograph: Morgan TrimbleMMCT’s David Nangoma said: “Stands of Mulanje cedar now cover less than 5 sq km. Under IUCN’s Save our Species project, our objective is to plant 1.2m seedlings and more over four years. So far, the planting is behind schedule due to January’s torrential rains and interference from the ‘concerned citizens’,” a threatening, disruptive political faction demanding the mountain’s resources be given to them. The group claimed MMCT was logging Mulanje cedar for profit when the trust embarked on a costly removal of invasive Mexican pine last year.Although previous replanting attempts failed, MMCT has hit upon an improved method. Chanyenga said: “In the past, foresters planted seedlings that were too small and used bare-rooted instead of potted seedlings. Mortality rates were high because soils dry up quickly on Mulanje.”MMCT has built and staffed 13 nurseries on the mountain to produce the required seedlings, but seed rarity is also a problem. Cones take two years to mature, and production varies.Nangoma cautioned: “The cedar seedbank in the forestry research facility has run out of seed to supply Mulanje plantings. That bank must be replenished and even more seed must be banked, for example, at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Kew, considering the rate at which cedar stands are disappearing on Mulanje.” 