What’s the name of this show? Mercy Street.When does it premiere? Sunday 17 January on your local PBS station. Check local listings. It’s most likely on after Downton Abbey. The first episode is online now – and, this being PBS, all additional episodes will available online for free. A PBS show after Downton Abbey. This must be British, right? No! This is actually an original drama for public broadcast. Lisa Wolfinger and David Zabel, a former ER showrunner, created it. If this show isn’t British, what is it about? It’s a slice of life at the Mansion House Hospital, a hotel in Alexandria, Virginia, that was turned into a hospital for Union soldiers during the civil war. It’s based on a real place. So it’s a costume drama and a medical procedural? Yes, it is the PBS-est thing of all time. What happens in the first episode? Mary Phinney (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) comes to the hospital as the new head nurse. There she meets Dr Hale (Norbert Leo Butz), the irascible head doctor, and his girlfriend, Anne Hastings (Tara Summers), a British nurse who learned from Florence Nightingale and is pissed that Lady Mary – sorry, “Nurse Mary” – is now her boss. She also clashes with civilian Dr Foster (Josh Radnor from How I Met Your Mother) and Confederate sympathizer Emma Green (Hannah James), who decides to trade in her hoop skirts for scrubs. There is also a freeman orderly, Samuel (McKinley Belcher III) who knows a lot more about surgery than he lets on. It’s basically like the pilot of ER, a newbie’s first day in a bustling hospital while learning the ropes, except this one has freed slaves and a lot more amputations. How much is this show like Downton Abbey? Actually, quite a bit, but instead of the upstairs/downstairs dynamic you have a Union/Confederacy dynamic, which creates a lot more tension, especially in a hospital treating soldiers from both sides. As in Downton, there are great characters, beautiful costumes, tons of attention to period detail and sly moments of levity to keep your attention off all the guts and discord. However, also like Downton, the show is not at all subtle when trying to push modern morals (feminism, issues of race, etc) in a historical context. There is also a soapy element to the whole thing, with romance in the air and intrigue waiting around every corner. The score isn’t nearly as good as Downton’s and Mercy Street is hardly as opulent, but these shows are cut from the same cloth. Is it any good? It’s entertaining, for sure, and immediately watchable, especially for those that love a historical drama. However, it’s on well-trodden ground with some storylines, like the doctors and nurses falling for each other and one of the doctors getting addicted to pain medication, as close to cliche as possible. The only thing that makes it different from medical shows, such as Grey’s Anatomy is the different medical technology. However, the exposition of these techniques is rather clunky, as when Dr Foster explains to a patient how the hypodermic needle was invented. He later stares at the needle and says to it, lovingly: “You are going to save so many lives.” Cue a million eye rolls. The civil war angle is refreshing. Such an infamous chapter of American history has never really been explored on television and everyone who slept through history class in high school will learn quite a bit. The grey vs blue histrionics, especially in the hospital setting, do get stale after the first several episodes as the characters have the same arguments repeatedly, with no action or evolution. Is Mercy Street anything like The Knick? While both are medical dramas set in hospitals in the past, they’re really nothing alike. The Knick is about taking the past and dragging it into modernity. Sure, it’s a period drama, but the storytelling, the direction and the score all make it rather innovative. Mercy Street is quite a conventional show, and happy to be a historical record rather than a synthesis of old ideas to comment on the world we live in now. Conventional isn’t bad, but for those looking for something more experimental, there are other shows out there. Should I watch this show? Yes, especially if you’re a Downton Abbey fan or sport your PBS tote bag with pride. Though not revolutionary, Mercy Street is a crisp and quick and a great addition to PBS’s roster, though not nearly as escapist as the channel’s regular Anglo-centric programming. 