Peter Kosminsky, director of Wolf Hall, on winning best drama:“In the week in which our secretary of state John Whittingdale described the disappearance of the BBC as a tempting prospect, I’d like to say a few words in defence of that organisation. I think most people would agree that the BBC’s main job is to speak truth to power, to report to the British public without fear or favour, no matter how unpalatable that might be to those in government. It’s a public broadcaster independent of government, not a state broadcaster … like they do in those bastions of democracy, Russia or North Korea. All of this is under threat right now, make no mistake. The secretary of state has talked about putting six government nominees or a working majority on to the editorial board of the BBC – the body charged with safeguarding the editorial independence of the BBC from, among other things, government interference. They will be appointed by the government. The secretary of state is telling the BBC when to schedule main news bulletins, what programmes it should make and what programmes it shouldn’t. This is really scary stuff folks, not something I thought I’d see in my lifetime in this country. It’s not their BBC, it’s your BBC. In many ways, our broadcasting – the BBC and Channel 4, which they’re also attempting to eviscerate – is the envy of the world. We should stand up and fight for it, not let it go by default. If we don’t, blink and it’ll be gone. There’ll be no more Wolf Halls. No more award-winning Dispatches documentaries on Channel 4, just a broadcasting landscape where the only determinant of whether something gets made is whether it’s likely to line the pockets of its shareholders. No! No! It’s time to stand up and say no to this dangerous nonsense.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Mark Rylance: I owe my Oscar and Bafta to the BBCMark Rylance, on accepting his leading actor award:“Woe to any government or corporation that tries to get between the British people and their love of a good joke, a true story, a good song, a fact, a fiction, good sports commentating, newscasters who can hold themselves together as they tell stories about tragedies in Paris, people who can cook well, bake cakes. The incredible variety of popular culture in this country has really blown my mind tonight. We’re a nation of storytellers, we’re admired around the world for it. Long may that live. And long may that be a privilege for the people here … without having to watch commercials.”Michaela Coel, on winning best female in a comedy programme: “Anyone who looks a bit like me, or feels like they don’t fit in: you are beautiful – embrace it. You are intelligent – embrace it. You are powerful – embrace it.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michaela Coel accepts her Bafta award for ‘anyone who feels like they don’t fit in’ Photograph: Bafta/REX/ShutterstockGraham Norton on Tom Hiddleston: “Thanks to his performance in The Night Manager, Donald Trump was only the second most talked about arse of the year.”Tom Hiddleston: “I’m very happy to Manage the Night any time ... particularly on the BBC.”Bafta TV awards 2016: full list of winners Jack Thorne, who won two awards for writing, said:“Government cuts to the Access to Work scheme are making it very difficult for theatre, film and TV companies to employ disabled talent. That’s wrong – and that’s got to change.”James Nesbitt: “Everyone in this hall is able to do what they do because of the BBC. Do not snatch it away. Did he [John Whittingdale] not watch The Hollow Crown last night? Please let’s protect it. Let’s cherish it.”Ian Hislop, accepting the comedy and comedy entertainment award for Have I Got News For You: “The BBC have allowed Have I Got News For You to be rude about governments ... and rude about the BBC, which is a privilege you are given with public service broadcasting and not on state television.”Jeffrey Tambor, star of Transparent, which won best international show: “This is the series that answers the question: it’s okay to change, you will still be loved, go for your authentic self, be who you are and to hell with the consequences. Believe, love, be free.”Graham Norton on Poldark’s Aidan Turner: “A man bun at the Baftas. How very modern.”Justin Timberlake on being asked to present the award for best drama with Anna Kendrick: “They asked two Americans … who’ve never seen any of these shows.”Bafta TV awards 2016: Wolf Hall director says BBC is under threat First Dates, on winning their first award:“We feel a little bit like Leo did at the Oscars right now.”Lenny Henry, on accepting his Special award: “God bless you mum. Who’d have thought the whole flash-in-the-pan thing would last so long?”