Great British Menu 7.30pm, BBC2The stalwart show returns with an even more patriotic flavour as chefs create dishes to mark what is described as the “new Elizabethan age”. Accordingly, the bombast is ramped up to absurd levels, with Douglas fir leaf culinary pyrotechnics and intricate beetroot origami. But will the scarily named Guts and Glory triumph over a maverick starter inspired by airport packed lunches? Weirdly enthralling, as though the fate of the country itself were at stake. Laurie ChenMasterChef Australia 7.30pm, WNo Wallace and Torode in this down-under take on the foodie elimination challenge. But, otherwise, the formula will be familiar. This sturdy, tension-riddled format has proved very exportable and shows no sign of losing its traction. The series opener sees the contenders offering up signature dishes as they bid to reach the top 24. Casting judgment are British-born chef Gary Mehigan, chef George Calombaris and food critic Matt Preston. Phil Harrison All Aboard! The Country Bus 8pm, BBC4Slow TV makes a typically languid return with this formally daring yet reassuringly gentle rumble through England in summertime. The Northern Dalesman bus starts in Richmond and ends in Ingleton. What lies between is some of the most beguiling countryside the nation has to offer – and without music, voiceover or any other embellishment, it’s allowed to speak silently and gloriously for itself. Watch; record; revisit in the depths of winter. PHRipper Street 9pm, BBC2This dramatic tour through the ambience and attitudes of late-Victorian London continues, a mixture of period charm and grisly detail, not least of a slit throat. A tearful Susan, awaiting the gallows and fearful for her young son’s future, receives an offer from Mrs Drake, but Jackson hasn’t run out of ideas to try to save his partner. Reid, meanwhile, is on the verge of coming out of retirement, but must do so on his former right-hand-man’s terms. David StubbsThe Coopers vs the Rest 10pm, BBC2Tess (EastEnders’ Tanya Franks) and husband Toby (Peep Show’s Paterson Joseph) have three adopted children, a point that is rather laboured in this comedy pilot. Even when it’s not hammering home the adoption setup – the kids are adopted, by the way – the gags are a bit of an effort, particularly for Joseph, who really heaves them out. (Adopted) daughter Frankie, played by Erin Kellyman, is a highlight, however. Ben ArnoldMy Millionaire Dads and Me 10pm, Channel 4Tony and Barrie Drewitt-Barlow caught public attention in 1999 – and ire from tabloid readers – as the first British gay fathers to pay for surrogate mothers. Fast-forward to 2016, and their eldest offspring are set to hit a landmark birthday. In keeping with much of their neighbourhood, cue an extravagant bash to mark the occasion. Here, we follow the 12 months preceding that party, as teen travails meet the gaze of a watching media. Mark Gibbings-JonesCelebs Go Dating 10pm, E4E4’s matchmakers are on hand to help Joey Essex, and a handful of other people you vaguely recognise, find love. Believe it or not, being a famous person isn’t easy – Joey is never sure if women are interested in him or his fame. So, what better than to plonk him and his famous friends in a bar full of civilians who have expressed an interest in dating celebs? The show’s reality veterans make this an enjoyably trashy romp, with Charlotte Crosby its standout star. Grace Rahman      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Malekith (Christopher Eccleston) in Thor – The Dark World. Photograph: Marvel Studios/Sportsphoto/AllstarFilm choiceThor: The Dark World (Alan Taylor, 2013) 8.30pm, BBC1Marvel’s god of thunder returns for this rather less mighty sequel, in which Chris Hemsworth’s Thor wields his hammer against Christopher Eccleston’s dreary leader of the dark elves, Malekith, while wooing toothsome earthling Jane Foster (Natalie Portman). Sadly, this leaves little room for Tom Hiddleston’s Loki, the out-and-out star of the first film.Schindler’s List (Steven Spielberg, 1993) 10pm, Channel 5The screen version of Thomas Keneally’s magnificent book, about the German industrialist who saved hundreds of Jews from Auschwitz by employing them in his enamelware factory, garnered seven Oscars, including best director for Steven Spielberg. Powerful performances include Liam Neeson’s Schindler, a man whose actions remain, at heart, an enigma; Ben Kingsley as his Jewish accountant, Stern; and Ralph Fiennes as the sadistic camp commandant, Goeth. A harrowing, noble work. Paul HowlettLive sportOne-day cricket: Warwickshire v Somerset The second semi-final, this time from Edgbaston. 12noon, Sky Sports 2Tennis: The US Open Coverage of the opening day at Flushing Meadows. 3.30pm, Eurosport 1Elite League Speedway: Wolverhampton Wolves v Swindon Robins Coverage of the top-flight fixture at Monmore Green. 6.30pm, Sky Sports 1