Thordis Elva is from Iceland and known to Icelanders as a writer, playwright, journalist and public speaker. She was voted Woman of the Year 2015 by the Federation of Icelandic Women’s Societies in Reykjavik for her work on gender equality, and has written a celebrated book on gender-based violence, 2009’s Á mannamáli (“The Plain Truth”). She currently resides in Stockholm, Sweden with her partner Vidir and their son.Tom Stranger is Australian. He met Elva when he was 18 and on a student exchange programme in Iceland, and the pair had a relationship. Since then, he has worked in various sectors (community services, youth, outdoor recreation, charity, construction, and hospitality). For now, he is working as a landscape gardener and lives in Sydney with his wife, Cat.From: tomsstranger@hotmail.comSent: Saturday 21 May 2005, 5.38amTo: thordiselva@hotmail.comSubject: Words for youThordis, I don’t know where to start. When I saw your name in my inbox, my spine went cold. My memories are still as clear as day. Please believe me when I say I have not forgotten what I did, and how wary I have to be of myself.I don’t know how to reply. I want to call myself sick (but I know I am not), I want to say that you are so strong, so strong to be able to write to me and recall the events and my actions. I want to thank you for not hating me, although I’d like you to. It would make it easier for me.Without looking for a scratch of sympathy, I want to tell you that the events and emotions I was party to in Iceland have replayed in my head many times, usually when I am by myself for any length of time. They flash past me, vividly accurate, and then, shortly after the denial and positive character reinforcement, comes the question: “Who am I?” It is a dark part of my memory. I’ve tried to suppress it.But this is not about me. Whatever I can do or offer you, I am more than willing. The question is where to go from here. You tell me.Tom.*****After eight years of analysing the violent past and its consequences in a written correspondence, Thordis and Tom decide to meet up in the middle, between their home countries of Iceland and Australia, looking to face their past once and for all.Day one, 27 March 2013The taxi picks me up at a quarter to five and takes me to the bus station, where I’m booked on the fly-bus. The grizzled taxi driver, hoisting my suitcase into the trunk with a smooth manoeuvre, asks me where I’m going.“To South Africa.”“Oh, really? To Johannesburg?”“No, to Cape Town,” I reply, still in disbelief at my own words despite the time I’ve had to adjust to the idea. It would be an understatement to say that the proposed meeting has been on my mind. It’s reverberated in every step when I’ve gone out for a run; it’s been in every breath of cold winter air that scraped the insides of my lungs; it’s soaked the wet washcloth I used to clean my son’s sticky fingers. And I’ve tried my best to push it out of my mind when making love to my fiance, enjoying his warm skin against mine.After all, that would be a highly inappropriate time to be thinking about it.From the moment the destination was set, I adapted to a new calendar – “before or after Cape Town”. The last time I bought deodorant I automatically deduced that I wouldn’t have to buy another one until “after Cape Town”. Yesterday, when snuggling down with my three-year-old son to do some painting together, spending quality time with him “BC” momentarily appeased my guilt for leaving him for 10 days to travel halfway across the globe to face a man from the past – without any guarantee of the outcome.Rape accusers ‘face court ordeal by defence lawyers’ Something tells me that parents of young children are not meant to take such foolhardy decisions. That’s the reason I gave up my dreams of parachuting when I fell pregnant with my son. Then again, throwing myself out of an aeroplane at 7,000 feet carries less emotional risk than taking a trip down memory lane with the man who turned my existence upside down. Because it wasn’t an unknown lunatic who tore my life apart all those years ago. Who turned down the offer of medical help for me, even though I was barely conscious and vomiting convulsively. Who decided instead to rape me for two endless hours.It was my first love.My mother’s eyes flew wide open when I told her that I was travelling alone to South Africa to meet up with the man who raped me when I was 16. She strung together a series of hair-raising worst-case scenarios before letting out a sigh, looking at me with loving reluctance, and adding: “But I know it’s pointless to try to talk you out of things you’ve set your mind to, dear.” Shortly thereafter, my dad interrupted my packing when he dropped by for a coffee. Despite my attempt to break the news to him in the gentlest manner possible, it didn’t prevent him from freaking out. He lectured me in a thundering voice about how I was jeopardising my life for an utterly ridiculous idea.“But I have to finish this chapter of my life,” I said softly. My cheeks were on fire.“Finish this chapter?” he repeated, appalled, and jumped out of his chair. “You don’t need to travel across the globe to finish anything! This whole idea is a big pretentious drama, that’s what it is!”His words hit me right where it hurts.“You’ll have no control over anything. Nothing but your thoughts! Nothing else!”“What do you mean?” I asked, confused. “I’ll obviously control my actions and whereabouts.”“No you won’t, dear,” he hissed. “You can’t always. If you could, then that wouldn’t have happened.” I’ll admit that I was floored by your request to meet up. Fearful, anxious, cautious, paranoid We both knew what he meant by “that”, even though we’ve never talked about the incident that changed everything. In recent years, I’ve spoken widely and publicly about my status as a rape survivor (though, until now, never identified the man who raped me) – yet my father and I have never discussed that fateful night. He has never asked and I’ve always assumed he doesn’t want to know.I sat up straight, aware of my glowing cheeks. “If you reduce me to victim and him to perpetrator, I can see how this seems incomprehensible to you. But we’re much more than that, Dad.”He scoffed loudly before storming out of the kitchen.I leant against the wall and let the air out of my lungs slowly. Goddamn it. I knew this would be hard, but bloody hell.My father appeared again in the doorway, pacing up and down with frustration I knew was fuelled by fatherly love. “How can you be sure you’ll finish anything with this nonsense? This may just as easily be the start of something else entirely!” The distress in his voice made it sound like a threat.I sat alone in the silence my father left behind and watched the dust settle. In a way, I think we’re both right. This trip will surely mark an end to a certain chapter of my life. What sets me apart from my father is my belief that in the next chapter, I won’t be the victim any more.Day two, 28 March 2013 The screen in the seatback in front of me shows a blinking plane over a map. According to the timer, Cape Town is just 29 minutes away. The butterflies in my stomach nose-dive, as the time seems way too limited considering how many questions are left unanswered.Goddamn it, what if I can’t forgive him? Am I ready to let go?Frustrated, I scroll through the folder on my laptop, searching for something to calm my nerves. I was level-headed enough when I suggested this trip, wasn’t I? In an attempt to recover my faith in this risky undertaking, I read through my own proposal:You may need a lifetime to forgive yourself for what you did to me. That is up to you and you take however long you need, independent of anyone else.I, however, am climbing a different mountain. And I am getting very close to the top.I propose that in six months’ time, we meet up with the intention of reaching forgiveness, once and for all. In person.It is the only proper way for me to do it, I feel. No letter can ever compare with face-to-face communication. And after all we’ve been through, I think it is the most dignified and honest way to finish this chapter of our story.I sound so calm, so fucking reasonable. How is it possible that this was written by the same person now hyperventilating in a plane 30,000ft over South Africa, full of nerve-racking doubt?Reading through his reply, I’m somewhat comforted that he, too, felt conflicted:I’ll admit that I was floored by your request to meet up. Fearful, anxious, cautious, paranoid. You name it, it all came swarming in. But you’ve asked, and you sound like you are making vital ground towards something very special for yourself. So of course I’ll agree to see you. After much thought I do think it will be beneficial, and an opportunity for myself to air face-to-face some long held words and for us both to look to close some doors.I want it for you, Thordis, as you seem strong, open and ready to see me and move forward. I want it for me because I’m so very sick of being sick and seeing myself as unlovable, and believe I can move on if I could just look you in the face, own up to it and say I’m sorry.Forgiveness is the only way, I tell myself, because whether or not he deserves my forgiveness, I deserve peace. Because I’m doing this for me. My forgiveness is white-hot from the whetstone, and its purpose is to sever the ties, because if I can let this go, once and for all, I’m certain that my overall wellbeing will benefit greatly. Self-preservation at its best.Day four, 30 March 2013It’s seven o’clock when we buy ourselves a drink at the hotel bar and sit down by a table facing the garden, readying ourselves for the hard talk. The windowpane clatters loudly, and an endless stream of staff crossing the room distracts me to the point where I give up. “What do you say about us finishing this conversation in my room?”He looks at me, shocked. “Are you sure? You’re comfortable with that?”“I’m sure that it’ll be easier to have this talk if we get proper privacy. It’s tough enough as it is.”Tom radiates ever-increasing anxiety as the elevator climbs closer to the 12th floor. Unlike him, my emotions have calmed down.Almost serene, I step out of the elevator. There’s no turning back now.He buries his hands in his pockets as I fish my key out of my bag in front of my hotel room. Putting my hand on the doorknob, it morphs into the white plastic door-handle with the keyhole that haunts my dreams. Within me, everything falls silent. Ready? I ask myself.Without hesitation, I turn the key.Tom follows me inside my room, takes a look around and smiles nervously. “Not bad.”“Sit wherever you like. I’m going to make some tea.”  Thordis’s student ID from around the time she met Tom. Photograph: Courtesy of Thordis ElvaHe sits down on the edge of the bed while I busy myself with the kettle. From the corner of my eye, I notice him closing his eyes and straightening his back, as if he’s steeling himself. When the boiling water hits the teabag at the bottom of the cup, Tom begins the story in a hoarse voice. “I wore my golden shirt that evening. I didn’t know it was customary to get dressed up for a dance in Iceland, and I didn’t have anything fancy. The son of my host family took me to an exclusive store and helped me choose the shirt. I thought it was the peak of cool, at the time. The striped trousers were a present from my host sister.”He accepts the steaming teacup from my hand and stares into it for a moment before continuing. “I remember how excited I was when I bought the ticket. I remember that I was with my friends Carlos and Ben when we met you outside the dance. You were pretty drunk when you arrived.”“It was the first time I’d ever tasted rum,” I tell him. “I didn’t know how to drink alcohol. Nor did I know how to smoke, even though I took a drag from the rolled cigarette you handed me. I just wanted to impress you.” And after the ensuing wild cough, I wondered if perhaps that wasn’t a cigarette, I remind myself.“I lost you the minute we stepped inside,” Tom continues. “Carlos and I went straight to the dancefloor. I remember feeling happy and carefree in that sweaty pile of people. Then someone told me you weren’t well, you were in the ladies.”My mind replays the awful scene from the bathroom stall. The stains on my new dress. My hair wet from hugging the toilet. My fear and wonder as one spasm after the other wrung my body out like a dishrag. The repeated promises that I’d neither drink nor smoke again if I were only allowed to survive this night. And finally, the desperate wish for my mom to come save me. I fucked up, Mom. I’m sorry.Tom frowns. “I felt it was my duty to go and check on you. So I went in and climbed over the partition, into your cubicle. I held your hair back while you vomited, and I thought I was going to be sick as well. Then you flopped to the ground and lay there, motionless. I remember carrying you out.”He pauses and looks away. Before I have a chance to tell him how grateful I was when he appeared like my mother incarnate to save me from an untimely death on the bathroom floor, he grimaces bitterly. “Then I couldn’t be bothered to look after you, Thordis. I dumped you on Ben and left you with him. You were slumped on the chairs outside the bathrooms and he stood there, stooped over you, as I went back to the dancefloor.”I look at him in surprise. “I thought you’d taken me straight home.”He clenches his jaw. “My only thought was that this was the only Christmas dance I was going to experience in Iceland. I was selfish and didn’t have any concern for you. In the end, I felt guilty that some other guy was looking after my girlfriend. So I scooped you up in my arms and carried you up the stairs, in a foul mood because I had to leave the party.”“And the security guards stopped you on the way out because they wanted to call an ambulance for me as I was dangling from your arms, foaming at the mouth. They thought I had alcohol poisoning.”“I’d forgotten that… moment… but I don’t doubt it,” he says in a low voice.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Stranger in 1996, the year he went to Iceland. Photograph: Courtesy of Tom Stranger“I remember that part vividly because for a second there, I thought you’d take their advice,” I respond, looking down into my cup. “That Mom and Dad would get a call from the hospital saying that their 16-year-old daughter was lying there with alcohol poisoning. I imagined being grounded for life.”“I’d known for three years by then what it is to drink to excess, and I’d seen many of my friends at various stages of drunkenness. I just thought you were wasted. I didn’t think you were in real danger,” he says.“Whatever it was, it had me paralysed and unable to speak. But I heard you loud and clear as you refused the offer of an ambulance, telling the security guards that you knew me and would see me safely home.”He nods, his complexion strangely pale. “The taxi was white, I recall. I told the driver your address… I remember letting us into your house. But what I don’t remember is what I did with you while I struggled to unlock the door.”“You draped me across your shoulder while you rummaged round in my bag for the keys.”He raises his eyebrows. “Really? Like a sack of potatoes?”I nod.He swears at himself quietly. “And I remember your entrance hall, the shoes on the floor. From memory, past the coat hooks there were some stairs on the left, leading up to the kitchen and your parents’ area. Your room was through on the right.” He stops and swallows.“I remember taking your clothes off.”I remember it too. My gratitude when he removed my vomit-stained dress. My relief at having my feet freed from the high heels. My frustration for not being able to utter a word of thanks. My lack of understanding when he continued to remove my underwear. Why my panties? Why?Sign up to our Bookmarks newsletter My stomach muscles reflexively tighten as I prepare for the blow.He stands up, moving restlessly, and walks over to the wall opposite the bed. ‘I undressed you completely...’ He falls silent and hangs his head. The wind howls pitifully outside the window.Tom begins to cry.‘I wish I could tell you why I did it, Thordis.’‘Did what?’‘Raped you,’ he says, quietly.This is an edited extract from South of Forgiveness by Thordis Elva and Tom Stranger (Scribe Publications, £12.99). To order a copy for £11.04 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Thordis Elva and Tom Stranger will be speaking at the Royal Festival Hall as part of the Women of the World festival on 11 March, and at the Bristol Festival of Ideas on 13 March‘People were quick to judge… I wasn’t “angry enough”’: what came next for Thordis and TomStanding in stark stage lights, with five cameras directed at me, I recently found myself on a stage, telling an audience of 1,200 how I’d been raped when I was 16 years old. Next to me on stage was Tom, who raped me after a dance at our high school. Together, we gave a TED talk that summarised a 20-year long process, whereby Tom shouldered responsibility for his actions and the way they impacted our lives. It was viewed nearly 2m times in the first week and the overwhelming reaction was positive and supportive.In the talk, I described the violence Tom subjected me to, how I spent years wanting nothing more than to hurt him back, how I found a way to part with the anger that nearly cost me my life, as well as rid myself of blame that I – like so many other survivors – wrongfully shouldered.Tom described how he felt deserving of my body that night, without any concern for me, and consequently convinced himself that what he did was sex and not rape. The following nine years were marked by denial, in which he did his best to outrun the past, until I confronted him in a pivotal email that changed our lives for ever.I’ve been asked why I didn’t press charges immediately, and the simple answer to that question is that I was a 16-year-old girl with naive notions about rape. Rapes were committed by armed lunatics, the kind of sensationalised monsters you saw on TV and read about in the papers. The fact that Tom wasn’t a monster, but a person who made an awful decision, made it harder for me to see his crime for what it was. That way, the demonisation of perpetrators in mainstream media got in the way of my recovery. By the time I was able to identify what had happened to me as rape, Tom had moved to the other side of the planet, far from the jurisdiction of the Icelandic police. At the time, 70% of rape cases in Iceland were dismissed, even when the perpetrator could be interrogated and the survivor had documented injuries, neither of which were the case for me. Therefore, pressing charges would not have been a fruitful process, and the only option I felt I had left was to bottle up my pain and anger. Studies show that very few survivors have a clean-cut story in which they went straight to the authorities after being assaulted, put the blame squarely on the perpetrator’s shoulders, healed their wounds and moved on. For most of us, life after violence is a messy ordeal. We don’t go to the police because we’re too confused, scared or doubtful that we’ll get help. We blame ourselves and obsess about things we could’ve done differently. We numb ourselves with alcohol/drugs/sex/food/work, or we turn to self-harm to relieve the emotional pain. We continue to see our abusers and pretend that nothing happened, because facing the truth is overwhelming. We develop PTSD and mental illness. We stay silent about what happened out of fear that we’ll not be believed, or worse, blamed for it because we did something “wrong”. No wonder, really. In reality, the only people capable of preventing rapes are those who commit them, and yet we’re told from an early age that we can avoid being raped by dressing and behaving in a certain way. This culture of victim-blaming also fosters the idea that there is a “right” way to react to violence. Had the survivor only worn something else, not smiled so widely, not gotten drunk, fought back (more), screamed (louder), gone straight to the police, not feared their attacker’s retaliation – if they’d only done that, everything would’ve worked out differently. Victim-blaming deepens the shame that many survivors feel and lessens the likelihood that they speak up about their experiences.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Thordis Elva and Tom Stranger’s TED talk. The reality is that there is no “right” reaction to having your life ripped apart by violence. I knew that my collaboration with Tom would be controversial, and the reactions of internet trolls didn’t surprise me. But I am concerned with how quick some people were to judge the “wrong” way in which I worked through my experience. I wasn’t “angry enough”, I should’ve pressed charges, I was setting a “dangerous precedent”, I should be “ashamed”. Although I made it clear that my forgiveness wasn’t for my perpetrator but for myself and that without it, I wouldn’t be alive, I was still told that I should not have forgiven.This worries me. I worry about my fellow survivors who are at risk of internalising the misconception that there is a standard reaction to sexual violence, with the conclusion that they didn’t react in the “right” way. To you, I want to say that you did nothing wrong. The way in which you carried on with your life may not have been clean-cut, it may have been messy and incomprehensible to those who don’t share your experience, but it was your way to survive a trauma. Nobody has the right to tell you how to handle your deepest pain.And as the title of our story – South of Forgiveness – suggests, forgiveness played a pivotal role in allowing me to let go of the self-blame I shouldered, largely due to the victim-blaming culture I grew up in. And yet, forgiveness is not the core of our story, in my mind. The core issue is responsibility.I understand those who feel discomfort and even outrage when hearing and seeing Tom on stage, knowing that he’s perpetrated sexual violence. At the same time, given how prevalent this type of abuse is and how under-reported a crime it is, we’re in all likelihood seeing and hearing from perpetrators on a daily basis – the main difference being that we don’t know they’re perpetrators. They could be the people we went to school with, who greet us at the grocery store, who direct the films we watch, get elected to public office, run entire countries and live right next door. Given the low reporting and conviction rate, most of them will never have to take responsibility for their actions in an institutional sense. This does not lessen the gravity of their deeds.Dramas like Broadchurch have helped rape survivors speak out. But services need funds | Rowan Miller By the time Tom had confessed to his crime, he couldn’t have done time for it even if he wanted to, as the statute of limitations had passed. As a result, our case fell through the cracks of the legal system, like so many others, but it didn’t lessen our need to analyse our past and place the responsibility with the person to whom it belonged: Tom. We also did our best to answer questions that are rarely posed in the public discourse about rape, where more focus seems to be on the survivor’s attire, behaviour, whereabouts and sexual history than the perpetrator’s culpability. And as frustrating as it is, I understand it to a certain extent. Because in the public discourse, the only people speaking about the violence they’ve been party to are the survivors, usually. Which is why we only have their stories to dissect, their details to scrutinise. “Did she say she’d been drinking that night?” This tradition of one-sided scrutiny blindsides us from looking at the behaviour of the person responsible, the perpetrator, to whom the focus needs to shift.I am not sharing the story of how I processed the abuse I endured as a set of recommendations for others.My story is a unique account shared in the hope that it can aid a public discussion about sexual violence.As a society, it is our duty to fight against violence. And as individuals, we have a right to heal from it.