The Fits is the debut feature from American director Anna Rose Holmer. It follows 11-year-old boxing enthusiast Toni as she attempts to join her local Cincinatti all-girl dance team, which then begins to be affected by a mysterious outbreak of fainting fits. The film is in cinemas from 24 February.How did you get the idea for the film?I was producing a documentary, Ballet 422, where we followed a young choreographer and watched dancers learn their moves with this unspoken body exchange. I started thinking about adolescence as a choreography that we learn in a similar way, by body mirroring, by looking at others to define how we move, how we talk, how we think about ourselves. I’d always been fascinated by cases of mass psychogenic illness, and something clicked.It’s also about my own coming of age. I co-wrote this with my editor, Saela Davis, and my producer, Lisa Kjerulff. We all had similar experiences of being close with our older brothers and then entering into larger groups of females. Navigating that moment was really defining for us.Is there a particular outbreak that the film is based on?We looked at a broad range, from 500 years ago to the present day. In medieval times there was this “dancing disease” where a whole town would be struck by episodes of dancing till collapsing, and then there were more recent cases in the US where groups of cheerleaders would all come down with similar symptoms.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Fits – trailer.In the film, the fits are filmed on mobile phones. Do you think, with social media, there’s the possibility the outbreaks could spread that way?In some recent cases there was definitely an ability to spread more quickly that way. And there are fascinating cases of “soap opera disease”, where large groups of people who watch the same TV episode can come down with the symptoms of the characters.You found real-life Cincinnati dance squad the Q-Kidz on YouTube. What did you like about them?It felt like falling in love. One of the things I love about drills [competitive dance contests] is their inherent call-and-response, that mirroring. There’s also a way to incorporate mundane everyday gestures so it allowed us to infuse the narrative into the dance itself. And it felt like a dance that an introverted tomboy like Toni would want to do.Royalty Hightower gives a fantastic performance. What were you looking for in your lead?Toni is a really challenging part – she has almost no dialogue but she carries almost every single frame of the film. To put that burden on, at the time, a nine-year-old girl felt like a big deal, but Royalty has this amazing capacity to listen and be very present. A lot of people think that you cast the kid as themselves, but she is not like Toni at all in real life.The majority of the cast are African American. After last year’s #OscarsSoWhite, do you think that there is an effort to make the film industry more ethnically diverse?If we’re going to really solve deeply embedded problems about lack of inclusion it cannot be about a quick fix or a change of facade; it has to be about real, on-the-ground work, at every part of the crew. It’s not just about the people on stage getting awards. I want to see work from minds and voices that are not just confirming my bias and experience of the world, and I hope other people feel the same thing.What are you working on next?I’m writing again but it’s in the early stages. The average span for a female director between film one and film two is eight years, so I’ll try to come in under that.