It took a while to decide I wanted to do Hamlet. It wasn’t that I was daunted – I’d been acting professionally since my mid-20s and had some pretty big Shakespearean roles under my belt by that stage, at 32: Petruchio in The Taming of the Shrew, Edgar in King Lear, Antony, Richard III. But when it came to Hamlet, I hesitated. I’m not even sure I’d seen the play in the theatre. I remember watching Laurence Olivier’s movie version and finding it a bit mannered – it just didn’t connect with me. I also watched the Russian film by Grigori Kozintsev, which I found much more powerful. But I wasn’t sure I had anything fresh to bring to Hamlet; I didn’t think I had anything to say.Jonathan Pryce takes on Shylock: ‘I’d love it if they booed me’ Then my father died, and the reason seemed to be there. He’d been a coal-miner; he and my mother ran a grocer’s in north Wales, where I grew up. One day he was attacked, hit over the head with a hammer. Just awful. It incapacitated him. I was in New York when I got the telegram saying he’d died, about to open Trevor Griffiths’s The Comedians on Broadway, and I couldn’t come back for the funeral. It took me a long time to process how I’d reacted to his death, the violence of it, the sense of something unfulfilled or incomplete. One day I became convinced that he’d appeared to me: only for a moment, but clearly I’d wanted to conjure him back into being. So when Richard Eyre was offered a slot at the Royal Court in 1980 and asked if I wanted to do Hamlet, I agreed. We talked a lot about how to make the ghost of Hamlet’s father realistic. An Elizabethan audience would have been terrified: he’s come back from the dead, perhaps from purgatory, demanding that his son avenges his murder. Richard and I had both seen The Exorcist, and the idea seemed really powerful: that this is some kind of possession, Hamlet becomes taken over by his father’s spirit, who tells him everything he needs to hear. We had to make some adjustments to the text – in the original play, Horatio and others have seen the ghost, so we had to find a way around that – but it seemed worth it, even though the rest of the production was pretty Elizabethan in the way it looked. I watched some documentaries on voodoo and people speaking in tongues and tried a few things out myself at home. Richard and I sat in my old Volvo, listening to the tapes I made.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The rest of the cast had no idea we were going to do it until the final run-through. When we opened the show, you could hear people in the audience saying “What the fuck?”, and there was a titter or two, but they seemed to adjust. Recording it for the South Bank Show on TV was another matter: I see that footage now and I cringe. It felt totally stupid in the studio. It wasn’t like that. Or I hope it wasn’t.No actor can fail as Hamlet: a profoundly mysterious hero On stage, it’s an extraordinary play to perform: there really isn’t a flat moment. Macbeth sags in act four – the England scene with Malcolm and Macduff just doesn’t work theatrically. But with Hamlet, although the play is so long, Shakespeare manages to sustain the arc. It’s such a great journey, and though obviously it’s a tragedy, it’s often very sharp and funny. I never found it draining, even though there was all this difficult stuff emotionally. It was a way to release all that, in a way.Maybe I had things easy; when I did Hamlet it was hardly a rarity, but these days there seem to be new productions every six months. I think it’s really difficult for a young actor to get up there and do it, with the pressure to find something distinctive. But also you can’t think this is the most important role of your life – in some ways it’s not even the most important role in the play. Hamlet is a real ensemble piece: you have to realise that he’s just one part of the story. 