Tributes for Carrie Fisher have been pouring in since her death aged 60 in Los Angeles on Tuesday. Our readers have been among those sending messages and sharing stories about what the Star Wars actor means to them. Fisher was known for many things: unflinching honesty, acting talent, writing skill and beauty. She’s also been a mental health advocate. Here are a selection of readers’ tributes, stories and comments. ‘She was delighted to see us dressed up at Comic Con’Comic Con photoMy husband and I had a quick photo with Carrie Fisher at New York Comic Con this past October. She was delighted to see us dressed as characters from The Force Awakens. "Finally someone my own age!" she said. That's me, Susan Moskop, as General Organa, my husband, RJ Moskop as Luke Skywalker, and Carrie Fisher with her dog Gary.Sent via Guardian Witness By susanmoskop  28 December 2016, 4:03 ‘She was a champion of her own flaws and helping others’Love and perspectiveBeautiful actress and brought sass and originality to her Star Wars role. Then a champion of her own flaws and helping others with mental health though fun and inspiration.Class. Total classSent via Guardian Witness By Andrew Jamieson  27 December 2016, 22:51 ‘She was a beacon of light to Star Wars fans in the 1970s’   worcesterwoman10 28 December 2016 9:08amAs a long time fan of the original Star Wars films, I can say that Carrie Fisher came across as a beacon of light In the 1970's to film fans like myself. In the past tradition of Bette Davis, Barbara Stanwick, Lauren Bacall and Ingrid Bergman she was a strong female lead in the role of Princess Leia attributed with guts and determination. She fired a gun, told men they were idiots and commanded a whole star fleet. To me as I was living then in the male dominated, un-enlightened period of early feminism- her film portrayal stood out as a beacon. She wasn't tall and beautiful- she was pretty to look at but she was clever and feisty with a girl next door kind of persona. The fact that as a person she came across as so down to earth despite the Hollywood upbringing, was a triumph for her. She kept herself "real" despite all the hype. She will be missed - I suspect - by all that knew her. I am sorry that we have lost her too soon.‘She was a brilliant wordsmith’   PlasticChicken 28 December 2016 6:03amI loved her books, I could read her words all day and night. She was a brilliant wordsmith.‘She treated everyone warmly, like you were a close friend’She treated everyone like a friendI had the privilege of meeting Carrie Fisher for the second time in 2015. I told her how amazing she looked and thanked her for her time. We took our picture together (which I do not have a digital copy of, it's on my wall) and as I started to walk away she grabbed me and pulled me back to her. She whispered in my ear "I know I lost all the weight but I'm slowly gaining it back." If you were able to observe her with fans you know that she treated everyone so warmly like you were her friend for years. I feel like a member of my family has passed. I am terribly heartbroken, I cannot imagine the pain her family is going through. She will always be remembered and I hope I'll get to say hello to her again someday among the stars.Sent via Guardian Witness By Laura Liebl  27 December 2016, 20:12 ‘She was everything that a princess should be’Fax Expo Toronto 2015Me.friend and I dressed as our two favourite characters. She will always be the embodiment of everything a princess should be. A galaxy worth of love to her family, friends and fansSent via Guardian Witness By Melissa Berberich  28 December 2016, 5:33 ‘Life will be empty without our princess’A Lifetime InspirationShe was always there to inspire. As an older woman her memoirs and shows encouraged me to do my own "older" Princess shows in Japan. Life will be very empty without our Princess.Sent via Guardian Witness By Lynne Hobday  27 December 2016, 22:28 ‘Princess Leia was smart, quick and didn’t suffer fools’Thank you Carrie Fisher.Carrie Fisher was the only princess I ever cared about. Princess Leia didn't wait to be saved by someone else. She saved them. She was smart, quick, drôle, and didn't suffer fools. She could be a commander of the universe but never thought she was above the people (or creatures). Much like Carrie Fisher. Leia was a princess who looked like me, in the age of the 70s blue-eyed blondes, and in my family. Fisher made Leia. She thought many of the lines were so over the top, that she injected wit and humor into their delivery. And while Princess Leia was my first idol/hero, Carrie Fisher become one that followed. She unapologetically and compassionately wrote and spoke about her own struggles with depression and mental health. Her writing was/is sharp as a tack, and she looked out for the women, and men, who followed in her footsteps. My five-year-old just asked why I was crying. I told him that my first hero died. He said, "that means it's time to be your own hero". Just like Leia and Fisher, themselves.Sent via Guardian Witness By Randi Buckley  27 December 2016, 19:12 ‘Return of the Jedi was the first film that I ever saw’Devin KeastReturn of the Jedi opened eight days after my birth in the U.S. My mother and father refused to miss it. So, they brought me, an infant, with them to the theatre. That was my first movie-going experience.Sent via Guardian Witness By Devin Keast  27 December 2016, 19:42 ‘My portrait of Carrie Fisher’RIP, Carrie Fisher, 1958-2016Portrait by Daniel Morgenstern, 27.12.16Sent via Guardian Witness By Daniel Morgenstern  27 December 2016, 21:50 ‘Carrie Fisher’s legacy will continue - she’ll be in my heart’Leia, my childhood hero and Carrie, my role modelI was devastated to learn my first ever childhood hero passed away. Growing up I've learned the cultural significance of Leia's character and I've got to know the amazing person playing her a lot more. Carrie went from portraying one of my all time favorites to being my role model by being herself unapologetically and being so open about her struggles and raising mental health awareness. She is so much more than Princess Leia and despite never meeting her I feel like we had a lot in common. She had wit, a one of a kind sense of humor and so much talent, this world will be so much worse without her in it.Her legacy will continue to live on and she'll be in my heart.Sent via Guardian Witness By Bence Ságodi  27 December 2016, 20:51 