Hello, Lita! Your memoir (1) makes it sound as though you have lived life large. Is that fair?Very, very large. It had huge, huge highs and huge lows. Right from the very beginning when I joined the Runaways at 16. I toured all the way up until I got married in 1994. After 20 years I thought, “I want to do something that’s a little more laid back,” and I decided to have my boys.So you went to live on an island (2) for 10 years with your ex-husband and home-schooled your children …I didn’t have any laws or rules or anything that I had to stick to because of the school – there was no school, there was just what Lita wanted. And we did things our way: we would walk the beach in the morning, then I would come back, we would jump in the pool and rinse off, and then we’d go in the house and I’d cook everybody breakfast and we would sit at what I called “The knights of the roundtable”, this big, round, wooden table with these great big leopard, leather-studded chairs. It [was about] making things fun so the kids wanted to learn.But then …I wanted to rest, but I didn’t want to be removed from civilisation. I did not want to live on this island – it’s great for a two-week vacation, but try 10 years. [You] get to know every grain of sand on that beach.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Lita Ford’s Kiss Me DeadlyThe Runaways have been talked about a lot recently, first with the biopic about the band, then with the stories about Kim Fowley allegedly raping Jackie Fox (3), your bass player. How do you remember the Runaways? There was a lot of ups and downs, as always. Every day isn’t full of roses, you know? But I remember a lot of good times, and that we were very blessed to have such a childhood like that. I mean, it wasn’t really a childhood, it was going from a child into adolescence. It was right at that point. So I got to be a kid at the same time I grew into an adult in the Runaways. There was fighting, there was a lot of sex, experimental sex, you know? Because you really don’t even know what it’s about at that age – at least I didn’t. I did and I didn’t, because you only experiment so far. I wasn’t doing drugs at the time of the Runaways – I didn’t start doing drugs until after the Runaways – but I did drink and I experimented with alcohol. Mainly because of the outside festivals were so bloody cold that my mother suggested to me, “Oh Lita, try some brandy.” So I started drinking brandy, and I’m thinking, “This is great, I love this.” It warmed up my hands, I was able to go out in the snow and didn’t freeze to death, you know? It was medici—medi—what’s the word? Medicinal [laughs].Aren’t your memories of Kim Fowley and the Runaways tainted now?No, not for me, I don’t have any regrets with Kim. If not for Kim Fowley, I don’t think there would’ve been a Lita Ford. He taught us a lot.But one of your bandmates says he raped her!I didn’t know about it until just recently. When Jackie spoke out, it was the first time I’d heard about it. So my memories weren’t tainted by rape. There were other things that went on that I just disconnect myself from – like Cherie Currie [singer] talks about getting pregnant in her book, and her relationship with [the Runaways’ co-manager] Scott Anderson, was ridiculous. It shouldn’t have happened, she should’ve known better, he should’ve wore a fucking condom. So I disconnected myself. I wasn’t close with Cherie, I was more close with Sandy [West, drummer] and hung out with Sandy a lot.What did you make of the way you were portrayed in the 2010 film, The Runaways (4)?I have only seen trailers, I’ve never seen the entire film. I don’t want to see it. Not a lot of people fucked with me, because I was a tough chick and people didn’t like it. If people fucked with me they knew that I would dump an entire Marshall stack over on top of them. I mean, I had an attitude. It’s just part of me and part of my music, but I didn’t hit anybody. The Runaways movie portrays me to be violent and I never was. They wanted Joan [Jett, rhythm guitarist] to be the star of the show. Did you give your side of the story in your book?I don’t talk about the Runaways a whole lot in the book. I did want to put my side of the story out there, but I wanted to add some music to the story and not just [write about] teaching Sandy how to masturbate in the shower, you know? I wanted to give it some credibility and some music.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Runaways pictured in 1976 – from left to right, Cherie Currie, Sandy West, Jackie Fox, Joan Jett and Lita Ford. Photograph: Michael Ochs Archives/Michael Ochs Archives/Getty ImagesDo you and Joan ever talk?No, we don’t talk. We don’t talk because her manager has problems with me – he sees me as a threat to Joan because I’m in the music industry. It’s ridiculous. I think she’s my sister and I think we should be in communication with each other, at least once a year or maybe on Christmas. But it just isn’t going to happen.Were you aware at the time of how influential the Runaways would go on to be for young women?No, not really, I think the Runaways were just very before their time. I mean, 1976 we weren’t accepted – we were punks. We were accepted more in the punk world than anywhere else. In the United States and in the UK and Europe we were just punks. In Japan we were superstars – just off the charts in Japan. We weren’t even women yet, and Cherie dressed in a corset and me with hot pants halfway up my ass it was hard to be taken seriously as musicians.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Runaways perform on Japanese TV in 1977And you translated that sexy image, in a way, when you launched your own metal solo career. Was that a help or a hindrance?Well, I chose to be sexy, and I think sex sells. I didn’t need to, because I’m a good enough musician that I don’t need to dress so provocatively. And I don’t anymore, although I still wear skin-tight clothes, which are sexy. When I went into my solo project I wore a leather G-string on the cover of my first album, Out for Blood. And the funny thing is that cover was banned in the United States – they wouldn’t put it in the stores because of the blood coming out of the guitar (5). The guitar was bleeding on the cover. It’s absolutely ridiculous that nobody said anything about the fact that I didn’t have any pants on. So it was about shock value?It was in a way, yes, it was. I wanted to grab everyone’s attention. People would say, “Holy crap, look at her, what is this all about? I have to see this!” I had to completely reinvent myself after coming out of the Runaways. I was now a young woman. Nikki Sixx (6) cut my hair! – I loved his hair, I thought it was great. He said to me, “Can I just …?”, and I said, “Sure, go ahead, cut it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hair by Nikki Sixx... Lita Ford plays a festival in Sweden, 2016. Photograph: IBL/Rex/ShutterstockThese days you’re often referred to as a feminist icon. What do you make of that?I am totally not a feminist. I don’t know why they call me that. I guess because I broke the mould and kicked down the door for women to play rock’n’roll – but that doesn’t make me a feminist. It’s just not who I am, I’m just a musician. I wanted it to be OK for girls and women to play. But it wasn’t like, “God dammit, why isn’t there a girl on this bill? There should be a girl supporting me on this show.” Sometimes it gets to the point where now they’re doing it on purpose – “Oh there’s Lita, let’s put in a female act to support her” – and it gets to be too much, because I don’t want to be labelled as a feminist. Not that there’s anything wrong with it, it’s just not who I am. I’m just a rocker chick that opened the door and carved the path and helped make the way for others.Does playing metal still excite you, and why do you think there aren’t more women like you?I love it, I absolutely love it. It just does something to you, it makes you drive fast. I’ve just learned over the years to develop my own sound, which is very aggressive and unlike a lot of female artists that do play today. There’s very few women that do play that style of music. And that takes years to develop – you don’t just pick up a guitar and crank the gain on the amp and say, “Yeah, I’m going to play like Black Sabbath” – it takes years to develop any kind of style. You listen to something that’s powerful and explosive and it makes you feel like you want to make a fist and throw it in the air and go, “Yeah! This is wicked!”Lita Ford plays O2 Academing Islington, London, on 12 MarchFootnotes(1) Living Like a Runaway, published by Dey Street Books.(2) In the Caribbean. Not the Isle of Sheppey.(3) Jackie Fox – real name Jackie Fuchs – went public with her account in 2015. Both Cherrie Currie and Joan Jett, who were named as witnesses to the rape, say they did not see it.(4) OK but unremarkable biopic, with Kristen Stewart as Jett, Dakota Fanning as Currie and Scout Taylor-Compton as Ford.(5) It was replaced by a cover with a similar dress code, but no dripping blood.(6) The bassist of Mötley Crüe.