Whatever I shoot represents whatever dream I had the night before. I have suffered from night terrors from the age of four. The things I dream are absolutely terrifying. I know I’m asleep, I know it isn’t real, but I just can’t wake up.When I turned six, these screaming nightmares began to spill over into my waking life. I started confusing what was real and what wasn’t. I would see things that would make me think of my dreams and I’d go into shock. My mother, who was a musician and artist, suggested I draw, paint or sculpt my dreams to understand them. She taught me to articulate them in a positive light and, in the process, free myself from their power. And that’s why I shoot: to create beauty out of trauma. After my father died, I walked the length of Brooklyn Bridge, over and over. It gave me peace of mind When I began working as a professional photographer, though, I found it impossible to create the distorted quality of my dreamworld. I tried every camera known to man. My father was an engineer and inventor. If something doesn’t exist, he would say, then build it. So I did. In fact, I came up with 23 homemade cameras. They’re modifications of toy cameras, with makeshift lenses, altered shutter speeds, that sort of thing. They’re the only ones I work with.I took this in 2010. The year before, my father had a stroke and I had to take care of him for six months. Visually, everything changed – in my dreams and in my waking life. Things became really far away. I would see vast, shadowy cityscapes with tiny figures I couldn’t reach or touch. That distance reflected how I saw myself in the world: connecting with other people was impossible without my family and my roots.After he died, I travelled a lot. And whenever I travel, the night terrors go nuts. They’re more intense, harder to process. I spent a lot of time in New York, staying with a friend who lives by Brooklyn Bridge, which has always obsessed me. Every day I would walk the length of it, back and forth, over and over. It gave me peace of mind.On this day, it was pouring with rain. The bridge is usually packed, but the weather meant I was more or less alone. Out of nowhere, I saw this woman, a small figure in the distance, approaching. It symbolised everything I had been dreaming about. Instinctively, I grabbed my camera and shot. It was something of a watershed: the first good photo I took after my father’s death. Photographers today are told to take themselves out of their work, to shoot what’s in front of them, not what’s inside. I understand that, but I don’t think it’s possible. Something of yourself always seeps in – and that should be embraced.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Natalie YoungSusan Burnstine’s CVBorn: Miami, Florida, 1966.Training: “I took photography at school, worked for a professional photographer, then studied film at the University of Miami.”Influences: “In art, the impressionists. In photography, the pictorialists, particularly Edward Steichen.”High point: “My first test shot, which I called Blue’s Nose, was a photo of my dog taken with my first homemade camera. I realised I really could represent my internal world.”Low point: “Cutting ties with the owner of a gallery who was a friend and colleague. It felt as if it had become all about economics for her. That’s not why I do this.”Top tip: “Don’t emulate. Shoot from within.”•Absence of Being by Susan Burnstine is published by Damiani.