In festivals, it’s the large-scale shows that get the most buzz. Whether it’s a locally driven production like the Perth International Arts festival’s opening show, Home, which played to 50,000 people, or a headline international dance act or stadium spectacular, these events – because of scale, or distances traveled – can’t exist outside of the infrastructure of festivals. They’re once-a-year offerings that fill the consciousness of the public long before the festival arrives, and dominate the festival’s legacy long after it leaves.But, for me, I find the heart of festivals beats on a smaller scale. It’s wonderful to experience big works with large audiences – the collective holding of breath, the explosions of laughter, the rapturous applause – but more and more I’m drawn to the surprising moments of intimacy that festivals can offer.Artistic director Wendy Martin has found many such moments in her first Perth festival, which runs until next weekend. While Geoff Sobelle’s The Object Lesson plays to a packed room, its most beautiful moments are in its beginning, as we are let into a space brimming with boxes and invited to explore.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We are let into a space brimming with boxes and invited to explore’: The Object Lesson at Perth festival 2016 Photograph: Toni Wilkinson/PIAF 2016Filled with donated items, the objects we find are unremarkable but their labels let us in on grand secrets: “things to let go of”, “recalls fond memory but is beyond utility”, “the ties that bind”. In these moments we are given an insight into the minds of people unknown, unseen and uncredited, and in this anonymous intimacy I find myself confronting the stories all of us tell in the objects we hold on to and wondering which quiet pieces of myself I would share. After the show, these beginning strands are what our discussions turn to. In James Berlyn’s I Know You’re There, the table is set for just sixteen. Berlyn individually meets each audience member with a hello, before telling his story while coming to rest near each of us. The work comes most to life when we are invited to participate, ripping up paper into ribbons to create a sky above our heads – a quiet moment of collaboration with strangers followed, for me, by a cup of tea and a conversation with the nurse who sat next to me.Perth International Arts festival and beyond: our top picks for 2016 My highlight at the festival, though, is A Mile In My Shoes, where I set off walking through a park with someone else’s shoes on my feet and their voice playing through headphones in my ears. The first pair I put on, too-big fireman’s boots, pull down on my ankles and change my gait. I clomp down pathways feeling the heaviness of the work of this man and, through his voice, feeling the levity and brightness with which he lives his life.Each time I swap my shoes, I am expelled back into the world slightly changed. In this park, I’m connected with these people of Western Australia in a way no other art form could muster. After a few pairs, and confronted with a growing crowd ready to try their hand, it’s time to leave – after taking a final look at the wall of unexplored shoeboxes.It’s in the incompleteness of the piece – the shoeboxes I wasn’t able to explore – that the work continued its pull, as my friends and I sat down and divulged the secrets and stories it felt that only we had been privy too. When work is experienced alone, there is so much left to say.I love the conversation that spills out of this kind of work. One of my favourite festival experiences was Michelle Lee’s Talon Salon in the 2012 Next Wave festival – not so much for the delicate audio play I listened to while my nails were painted but for the way our painted fingernails became a signal of shared circumstances. Strangers with fresh manicures would approach each other at other Next Wave events, excited to discuss the work anew.  Ontroerand Goed’s Joeri Smet in Trilogy: Internal. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianIt’s not only other audience members who you’ll want to talk to after these shows. When Ontroerend Goed brought their trilogy of intimate shows to the Adelaide festival in 2013, reports abounded of audience members in Internal falling in love with performers after they had been seduced, or otherwise seething with rage at the way they had found their trust mislaid. Both types of people wanted to track down the artists in search of a kiss, or a fight. And then there were those like me, who found the experience oddly cold and unaffecting; the only way I could understand the work was to talk it through with others who had been in that theatre in the days before or after me.These moments start off as a small connection with a stranger and end up weaving their way around the big events of a festival. They can thread a whole festival together: experienced alone or in small groups, their discussion must extend to theatre foyers and festival bars to be really understood. The large scale at a festival can feel as if it takes over your entire being but the intimate has more of a chance of seeping into your skin and shaping the way you walk around the world. Perth International Arts festival runs until 6 March