I’ll try to start as unpretentiously as possible. With the basics. The Latin prae – before – and tendere meaning to stretch. That way being pretentious doesn’t sound so bad, does it? I’m sorry if I’m losing you already. I’m not being pretentious, trust me, it’s just that you’re a little slow.OK, let’s have another go. Think of pretentiousness as holding something in front of you, like actors wearing masks in ancient Greek tragedy, or medieval knights presenting their escutcheon. With me? Good. Plato hated actors for concealing the authentic and does that not really get to the heart of pretentiousness? For what is pretentiousness, if not the obverse of authenticity? We praise an actor for the authenticity of their Hamlet, yet why are we not angry that he isn’t truly dead at the end of the play?In defence of pretentiousness | Dan Fox Experts authenticate. An art historian pronounces whether a Van Gogh – to rhyme with cough, not blow: a small matter but an important one – is genuine. Yet each of us authenticates our own experience every day. Who, when wandering through Hoxton of a Sunday morning, does not consult the landmark work of Pierre Bourdieu when trying to decide if a hipster beard is pretentious or not? The pretentious is often what is unfamiliar. So if a beard feels familiar, we will allow it authenticity.Labelling someone pretentious is a lazy abuse of one’s own cultural power: a form of control to disallow people rising above their station or class. Most people pay little regard to the courier company DHL, failing to understand that DH Lawrence thought so highly of them that he took his own initials from them. Should we think less of Lawrence for romanticising the horny-handed working-class authenticity of the DHL delivery man with an enormous cock, or chastise him for not championing FedEx? Anti-intellectualism is as much a form of snobbery as anti-pretension, a state of dynamic Hegelian tension that the rock group Pulp so cleverly observed in their 1990 hit, Common People.How do we measure pretentiousness? Through the use of many Latin words, like me? Surely not. That would be praestigium – a delusion. Pretentiousness is any deviance from the cultural norms to which we subscribe. If one person’s pretentiousness is another person’s innovation, are we not arguing over taste? Take the blank white wall with a £2m price tag: why can we not allow difference to co-exist and allow the art world to be sincere, while everyone else with a lesser understanding of the mechanics of the piece can call it pretentious?Allow me one small lacuna. Might an artist deliberately set out to be pretentious, knowing that he can con a stupid, wealthy buyer out of a few million quid with a worthless object? Does being knowingly pretentious invalidate a work’s pretentiousness, rendering it authentic? Or is the artist in a state of Sartrean false-conscious hell, whereby she is unable to distinguish the pretentious from the real within her own creativity? Or is pretentiousness merely a matter of perceived sophistication. In Medieval Latin, sophisticare was used to describe the dishonest tampering of goods. I rest my case.Pretentiousness by Dan Fox review – why anti-intellectualism is the real snobbery And what of music? Popular culture demands to be taken seriously, so why then are the critics who dare to do so frequently called pretentious? If we accept that nothing can be truly genuine – that is to say, that nothing can be truly of itself, for everything is part of that which has come before – then surely we must reach a stasis where everything can be both simultaneously authentically deep and deeply pretentious. Though the tipping point might be the greater and more desperate lengths some critics go to, to gloss over their own narcissistic paranoia of being thought stupid, with a perverse and unnecessary over-intellectualism.I feel I have not yet inserted as many cultural signifiers into this essay as perhaps I would have liked. Such is the fear of being labelled pretentious. Yet to conclude, pretentiousness is always a state of otherness, someone else’s crime. When I drop Jacques Derrida or Alain de Botton into a conversation, I do so knowingly, able to laugh at my neediness and exalt in my intellect. But when you do it, it is just pathetic, pretentious posturing. We need pretentiousness. Not the fake accusations of pretentiousness that merely seek to divide us and undermine human advancement – but the real pretentiousness that can advance creative and intellectual endeavour by allowing a good idea for a magazine article to be extended into a book.Digested read, digested: Prétentieux, meum?