Sky Ferreira hits back at music industry sexism after LA Times article As best I can tell, the use of overt female sexuality to market products – from pop music to ice cream bars to cars to beer and beyond – has three effects: it encourages men and women buy crap they don’t need; it makes too many women think that being sexy (and its supposedly necessary component, “skinny”) is an important life goal; and it convinces men that the world at large really, really cares about their boners.The latest writer to overestimate the universe’s interest in his prosaic demonstrations of physical arousal, joining a storied cast of characters, is LA Weekly music critic Art Tavana. In a reported effort to offer words of praise for pop artist Sky Ferreira, he instead dedicated a large proportion of his nearly 1,500 words to her breasts, which he said in various different ways reminded him of Madonna’s own “defiantly atomic boobs”. He also suggested that an entire field of study be dedicated to figuring out why people (ie men) want to bang her, while managing to say next to nothing about her actual art other than he thinks she’s a middling vocalist who is more indie than her critics suggest.There is no more turgid template in the boner prose canon than the piece that attempts to wrap in an aura of mystery whatever externality nominally caused the writer to get a tingly feeling in his no-no place.And yet, Tavana went there, declaring it incredibly important to consider his and his readers’ physical attraction to Ferreira “a talent; it’s her instrument” – and his editor let him, earning them the ire of other writers and of Ferreira herself, though she thanked the editor for his eventual apology.Sexism on repeat: how the music industry can break the cycle Tavana and the LA Weekly aren’t outliers here. Many other publications also default to sexualized pictures of female artists accompanied by the sort of prose for which the term “masturbatory” was invented in their coverage. Take Chuck Klosterman’s 2008 Esquire interview with Britney Spears, in which he uses the word “pantsless” four times in the opening paragraph; or Jennifer Lopez’s interview on Watch What Happens Live when the topic was not her turn as a judge on American Idol or her new NBC drama, but her rear end. Björk recently talked about how she’s spent years overcoming the perception, including in interviews, that she doesn’t make her own music (a complaint with which, post-Lemonade, Beyoncé probably has a lot in common); no less than Tavana’s own beloved Madonna said last year: “Since I started, I’ve had people giving me a hard time because they didn’t think you could be sexual or have sexuality or sensuality in your work and be intelligent at the same time.” And that’s not even to get started on how many female actors face questions not about their roles, but their bodies and their diets.Many women – musical artists or not – choose for reasons personal, commercial, coerced and/or otherwise to show themselves in ways that will be deemed sexy or sexual, for reasons all their own. But women’s sexuality is not the only thing that defines us as people; artists’ sexual charisma or photographs that various men find sexy aren’t inherently the most important thing they bring to the table as artists. Whether or not you like her music, and despite her relative youth, she’s not unworthy of serious consideration as an artist and as someone too familiar with the pressures faced by young women in the music industry to conform to a particular aesthetic (musically or otherwise), as she demonstrated in a more-than-four-year-old interview in Rookie. She talked about, as most girls learn and most women know, the perils of being sexy: that it’s defined by the male gaze, not the way you feel (though, in fact, women can feel themselves sexy without a single man’s stamp of approval); that it has the potential in a man’s eyes, to overshadow anything else you do; that you can’t be sexy in any but a non-threatening way; and that feeling or looking sexy and being sexual aren’t necessarily the same thing.Sky Ferreira: 'I have this reputation for being difficult, but 50-year-old men were telling me how to be a woman!' But Tavana, who makes his living at writer, still waxed on about a years-old Instagram photo of her, saying she looks “like a freshly licked lollipop” as a way of praising her as an artist.Readers have been here before. Women in the music industry have been here before. The pretty-girl-can-do-thing-other-than-be-pretty idea isn’t surprising in 2016. It’s not a useful framing of an artist’s work for even a general audience that might not be terribly familiar with it. The consideration of why one pop star might give one male reviewer more of a hard-on than other pop stars (Tavana wrote that Taylor Swift, Katy Perry and even Beyoncé didn’t strain his trousers in quite the same way, as though anybody needed to know that) isn’t a serious point of critical inquiry. It’s a window into one man’s 30-year fascination with Madonna’s tits.If a dude thinks that the stirrings he gets in the pants-place is the most defining thing about a given woman, that says far more about the man in question than the artists he’s trying to define. Women, even those of us who aren’t artists, have value as people whether or not that provokes any physical reaction in men. And, if it doesn’t provoke a reaction, there’s not a reason for any of us to care.