Six months ago, I wrote that AC/DC should call it quits. After the announcement that Brian Johnson was stepping down as singer, I argued – tetchily – that a group in which only Angus Young and Cliff Williams remained of the “core” AC/DC lineup should pack it in, and put dignity ahead of business. It turned out I was wrong, as I discovered when I saw Axl Rose’s first show fronting the band, in Lisbon.If anything, Axl/DC seemed like a band revived, the singer ceding centre stage to Young, now the undisputed leader of the group. The setlist, so long set in stone, was revived by the inclusion of Bon Scott-era songs left untouched for years. If You Want Blood (You’ve Got It), Rock’n’Roll Damnation and Riff Raff became mainstays once again; Touch Too Much made occasional appearances; on the Rock or Bust tour’s final night, in Philadelphia on Tuesday, Problem Child was brought out for the first time since 2001.Philadelphia was notable for something else, too: it was Cliff Williams’ final show as AC/DC’s bassist. That means that in the past couple of years, the group has lost Malcolm Young, its rhythm guitarist and driving force, to dementia; Phil Rudd, its drummer, to legal problems; Brian Johnson, its singer, to hearing problems; and now Williams, because he simply feels the time has come.Angus Young, for so long the face of AC/DC, is now all that remains of AC/DC.Whatever I said back in March, I think that this incredible band have handled their tribulations with great dignity. No replacement for Malcolm would be perfect, but his nephew Stevie kept things in the family. And while there was plenty of grumbling from fans about Chris Slade stepping in for Rudd, he had at least served with the group before: he represented continuity.The album Rock or Bust, made with Rudd but without Malcolm, was a perfectly reasonable effort at keeping the juggernaut going. Yes, one might wish it had been better, but it could have been a whole lot worse. And the ensuing tour – both with Johnson and then with Rose – proved AC/DC could still be one of rock’s most compelling experiences.AC/DC: 'If there's a bad-parenting issue, they blame rock'n'roll' But now, with dignity intact and millions of fans satisfied, it really is time for the show to end. It’s not that Cliff Williams’s basslines are impossible to replicate – in fact, you’d find it hard to locate a professional bassist who couldn’t play those repetitive, unyielding, four-to-the-floor lines. It’s that, Angus aside, he was the last remaining link to the Bon Scott years. I suppose they could go back to Williams’ predecessor, Mark Evans, if he wanted to return. But why? There’s now no tour to finish, no album to promote, just – if Angus does intend to carry on – the ritual five-year wait for something new to happen.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest By that time, who would be the singer? Rose was only ever billed as a short-term replacement, and while he spoke enthusiastically about the role, it’s hard to see him becoming a studio singer for a new AC/DC album. Who would be the bassist or drummer? We can assume Stevie would be the rhythm guitarist, but that’s only two members. And one original member, one respected stand-in, three hired hands – it’s not a band.Here’s a solution. Let Williams remain retired. Let Johnson tend to his hearing. Let Rudd work through his issues. But when or if either of the first two get the itch to take to the stage again, and if the latter can be forgiven by Angus, then let AC/DC reconvene on an occasional basis, but no longer as a formal working band, tied to a schedule. The odd festival show, the occasional one-off. No more two-year world tours with accompanying albums to justify them. No more custom-built stage spectaculars. No more keeping on with the show, whatever the cost. Just a band, playing rock’n’roll if and when they get the urge, making no commitments and demanding no favours. Maybe that means one festival in five years’ time; maybe it means a handful of club shows hardly anyone can get into. But it would preserve AC/DC’s legacy as one of rock’s purest spectacles. Maybe Angus might remember the words of one of AC/DC’s earliest anthems, Ride On: “I ain’t too young to realise / That I ain’t too old to try / Try to get back to the start.” At the start, musicians make music because they love it. If Angus loves it, let him make music. But, please, leave us with the happy memories of one of the greatest bands ever, unless you can find a way to ensure any future AC/DC is still a real AC/DC.