At a popular night spot in South Sudan’s capital, a jubilant young crowd cheer as a rapper takes to the stage to perform one of his best-loved tracks.The venue is packed but many more people are still lining up outside, keen to get in and dance to the localised hip-hop and dancehall performed in Juba Arabic, the capital’s own dialect.With women in skimpy clothing and men in their sharpest hip-hop outfits, nights like this are hard to come by in a country that has spent years locked in a civil war after the president Salva Kiir accused his vice president Riek Machar of planning a coup against him.The rift triggered widespread violence, with supporters loyal to Kiir, from the country’s largest ethnic group, the Dinka, clashing with the Nuer, the second largest grouping, who supported Machar’s bid for power.The resulting conflict led to an estimated 10,000 deaths and more than 2 million people displaced in just two years, exacerbated by cattle-raiding, local militias and by the proxy war fought by neighbours Sudan and Uganda.But tonight, these partygoers are determined to overcome ethnic differences in favour of a good night out. Koryom Kuol, a 27-year-old events organiser, says despite the insecurity in the capital he’s been organising these monthly concerts, called Club Vegas, to unite young people regardless of their background. All we want is for the youth to unite and resist being used by the old men as tools of a war of self interestsJohn Aguek       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Most people find out about the night via Facebook, South Sudan’s most popular social network. Photograph: Mariak Bol Majok for the Guardian“Our main aim is to forget what happened in the past and to bring an end to tribalism in our country. Our concerts bring youth people from all tribes together to dance, sing and socialise regardless of their affiliation,” Kuol said.“When people meet at the concerts, they share, learn and this helps them to forget about what the conflict has done to their lives and focus on opening a new chapter,” he added.It’s a welcome social distraction in a city that has been subjected to a spate of violent attacks since 2013. Reports of killings by “unknown gunmen” late at night have prompted government troops to more strictly enforce a curfew. Yes, Kuol says, it’s a challenge to organise a party in these circumstances, but audiences aren’t put off. He says their main concern, like partygoers the world over, is how to get home.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Young people celebrate South Sudan’s one year anniversary in 2012. A brutal civil war erupted just one year later. Photograph: Paula Bronstein/Getty ImagesThose who have private cars aren’t so worried, but others who need to walk are vulnerable to attacks or harassment from soldiers. “If you are using a car it would be easy to escape in case you are being attacked by these gunmen,” he adds.South Sudan rebel leader Riek Machar returns to Juba Hopes are high in Juba that the seemingly intractable civil war has finally come to an end after rebel leader Machar returned to the capital in June and formed a transitional government with president Kiir, fulfilling the terms of a peace agreement signed in August last year.John Aguek, who was attending the club night for the first time, says there is an air of optimism. “I’m really very happy. All we want for this country is for the youth to unite and resist being used by the old men as tools of a war of self interests,” he said, shouting over the dancehall tracks. Peter Gatkuoth, who also attended the Club Vegas event, said that such nights help young people look past the conflict. “We need to forget what has happened and define our own destiny as future leaders of South Sudan,” he said.This article is part of the Guardian Africa network’s Sudans takeover. For one day we’re handing over the reins to a group of young Sudanese and South Sudanese journalists who have been reporting on the issues facing their countries today. From clubbing to beauty politics, police crackdowns to the ongoing war in Darfur, their stories offer a new way to understand this under-reported region