MondayThe Roundhouse’s CircusFest 2016 begins in London, and there’s something for everyone – from large-scale international work to one-on-one circus experiences to shows for children and families. Things kick off tonight with the Finnish ensemble Race Horse and Super Sunday, a show featuring a human catapult, a wheel of death and more. Timothy Spall stars in The Caretaker at the Old Vic in London. Florian Zeller’s unsettling and moving The Father is at Hall for Cornwall in Truro, and well worth seeing. Eve Ensler’s The Fruit Trilogy, looking at female body image, abuse and trafficking is at West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds until the end of the week. Margaretta D’Arcy and John Arden’s epic retelling of the life of Easter Uprising leader, James Connolly, The Non-Stop Connolly Show, is revived at the Finborough. The Shepherd’s Life is thoughtful and entertaining at the Theatre By the Lake in Keswick. There are great performances from Lesley Manville and Jeremy Irons in Long Day’s Journey into Night at the Bristol Old Vic.Tuesday   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the trailer for the RSC’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream: A Play for the NationStephen Rea stars as a troubled Ulster loyalist in David Ireland’s compelling Cyprus Avenue, which transfers from the Abbey Dublin to the Royal Court in London. The Royal Shakespeare Company’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream: A Play for the Nation is at the Grand in Blackpool for the rest of the week. Torben Bett’s fine stage version of Get Carter, seen at Northern Stage earlier this year, is at Cast in Doncaster from tonight. It’s the final UK dates for Eimear McBride’s A Girl is a Half-Formed Thing at the Everyman in Liverpool before heading to New York. Breach’s The Beanfield about civil liberties past and present is at Battersea Arts Centre, where you can also find Little Bulb’s Wail, seen at Forest Fringe last year. Labels at Theatre Royal Stratford East, London, is a very enjoyable and thought-provoking look at prejudice and why you might have to change your name. Wednesday   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch trailer for The Harri-Parris: The Big Day at Chapter, Cardiff, and touringThe brilliant artist-led, pay-what-you-can festival Buzzcut starts at the Pearce Institute in Govan today. Pentabus are in Northern Ireland this week with Sian Owen’s play about fracking This Land. It’s at the Riverside in Coleraine tonight, and check out the website for dates in Omagh, Derry and Belfast later in the week. Vamos’s 1960s forced adoption story, The Best Thing, played in full mask, is at the Arena in Wolverhampton. Sisters Julie and Ruby are coming to terms with the death of their mother in Alison Carr’s Iris which begin tonight at Live in Newcastle. Suhayla El-Bushra relocates Nikolai Erdman’s Russian satire to the dirty streets of London in The Suicide that previews in the Lyttelton from tonight. The latest instalment of The Harri-Parris: The Big Day sets out on tour, starting at Chapter in Cardiff. It’s your last chance for Deborah Pearson’s very entertaining and close to the knuckle Made Visible at the Yard, east London. Race is also under the microscope in Amiri Baraka’s 1964 American play, Dutchman, which is about the traumatic black experience and is directed at the Young Vic, London, by 2016 Genesis Future Directors award-winner, Ola Ince.Thursday   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch video for Pursued by a Bear’s The Lamellar Project at South Hill Park, BracknellSarah Brigham’s admired revival of Look Back in Anger transfers to the Octagon in Bolton. Politics and rock & roll collide in the latest from Little Soldier who are trying to change the world in Derailed at Home in Manchester. A revamped version of Circa’s Closer starts at Udderbelly on the South Bank in London. Anders Lustgarten’s The Sugar-Coated Bullets of the Bourgoisie about a changing China viewed over 60 years starts at the Arcola in east London. Brad Birch’s The Brink, about a history teacher in turmoil, starts at the Orange Tree in Richmond. Sci-fi meets eco-activism in Pursued by a Bear’s The Lamellar Project which begins a tour at South Hill Park in Bracknell tonight and which also has an online manifestation.Friday and the weekend   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch interview with Blanche McIntyre about her revival of Michael Frayn’s Noises Off at Nottingham PlayhouseTonight, The House of in Between begins at the Theatre Royal Stratford East, a story inspired by India’s third gender, the Hijra community. Bruce Norris’ terrific, hard-hitting and very funny Clybourne Park is revived at the Mercury in Colchester. Fishamble’s thoroughly enjoyable dance drama, Swing, is at Farnham Maltings. Saturday sees the first preview of Blanche McIntyre’s revival of Michael Frayn’s brilliant farce, Noises Off, at Nottingham Playhouse. Daniel Evans’s Sheffield hit revival of Showboat transfers to the New London in the West End. Legally Blonde is revived at the Curve in Leicester from Monday. Gillian Slovo’s documentary play, Another World: Losing our Children to Islamic State, starts in the NT’s Temporary Space on Saturday. Kit Harington stars as Dr Faustus in Jamie Lloyd’s revival at Trafalgar Studios, London from Saturday.