A former director of the Globe theatre in London is turning his sights on the cinema with the launch of a new career directing and producing feature films.Dominic Dromgoole, who was artistic director at Shakespeare’s Globe until last year, hopes to emulate the global success achieved by directors such as Stephen Daldry and Sam Mendes in the move from stage to screen.Dromgoole is working on six feature films as director or producer. Budgets are small – up to £1m for each production but, he says: “I hope that the ‘chamber epic’ still has a place in contemporary cinema and that you don’t have to spend $100m. You don’t have to have high concepts and explosions. Just stories that tell truths about human beings.“If you watch a film like Moonlight or Manchester by the Sea or Hell or High Water, there’s just human life, a compelling fascination that no amount of large budgets can equal for me.”His forthcoming films include Dead Head, a thriller that he will direct, inspired by a 1980s television series scripted by Howard Brenton. “It was only shown once, but it was quite a cult series,” said Dromgoole. “The BBC was simultaneously very proud of it and very frightened by it. There was an enormous shock-horror press storm because of the amount of sex and because it was uncovering murky workings of the dark British state.“It’s about the efforts of the British state to cover up the crime of one of its most senior members. Howard has always been brilliant in his plays and with Spooks, the television series which he wrote for a long time. He’s always been great at uncovering the slightly vicious underbelly of the state.”Dromgoole got his first taste of film-making when he launched a video-on-demand platform for Globe productions and, along the south bank of the Thames, showed 37 short films celebrating every one of Shakespeare’s plays in their real settings. Simon Russell Beale played Timon in front of the Acropolis. As artistic director of the Globe from 2006 to 2016, Dromgoole made his mark with 30 new plays, including Jessica Swale’s Nell Gwynn and Claire van Kampen’s Farinelli and the King, both of which enjoyed successful West End transfers.He also drove the creation of the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, the Globe’s indoor Jacobean theatre, directing its acclaimed inaugural staging – The Duchess of Malfi, with Gemma Arterton.His Globe productions repeatedly played to capacity audiences. The most ambitious project was a tour of Hamlet between 2014 and 2016 to 197 countries, on which he is this month publishing a book, Hamlet: Globe to Globe.The path from theatre to cinema is a well-trodden one for British directors. After heading the Royal Court, Stephen Daldry received Oscar nominations for Billy Elliot, The Hours and The Reader. From the Donmar Warehouse, Sam Mendes went on to receive a best director Oscar for American Beauty, and rave reviews for Skyfall, starring Daniel Craig as James Bond. Other major film-makers with a track record in theatre include Phyllida Lloyd, who directed the hit Abba musical, Mamma Mia!Now another former head of the Royal Court, Dominic Cooke, is making his feature film debut with On Chesil Beach. His adaptation of Ian McEwan’s acclaimed novel, a tender story of young newly-weds, is in post-production. Meanwhile, Matthew Warchus, artistic director of the Old Vic Theatre, is developing a film of Matilda the Musical, the hit stage show based on Roald Dahl’s novel, and Michael Attenborough, former artistic director of the Almeida Theatre, is developing another film script with a writer.Asked what draws theatre directors to film, Dromgoole said: “Curiosity – discovering a different way to tell stories.” It is not about money or reaching larger audiences, he said: “At the Globe, we used to play to 600,000 people a year. On an individual [production], we’d often play to about 120,000 people. There are very few British films that get to be seen by that many people.”Through his new company, Open Palm Films, he is keen to encourage young talent. From Simon Amstell, he has commissioned Benjamin, “an intimate and delicate comedy” about growing up in contemporary London. He describes Amstell as “a uniquely gifted writer and director – like a young British Woody Allen in lots of ways”.He has just completed principal photography on his first feature, Making Noise Quietly, an adaptation of Robert Holman’s “exquisite” stage play of the same name, which he first staged at London’s Bush Theatre in 1986.All six films are privately financed. His backers include anonymous individuals with a passion for theatre and film, who also funded his Globe productions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nell Gwynn at Shakespeare’s Globe. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian