There is little online evidence of Picnickers Anonymous. Their website declares only that the venue is secret, provides an email sign up form, and instructs you to “bring a bottle and a blanket”. But follow it through and you’ll soon find yourself sitting with an eclectic group of Lagosians in a public car park or a busy roadside, sharing ideas, drinks and food under the stars.If Lagos’s urban spaces seem like an odd place to have a late-night picnic, its organisers have loftier goals in mind. In this sprawling megacity, one that is regularly embroiled in violent disputes about informal settlements and where public spaces often require an entrance fee, such a peaceful, inclusive cultural reappropriation is a small but radical act.Across the globe, cities are investing in technology to make urban environments more interconnected, efficient and streamlined. They’re installing data-collecting rubbish bins, parking-spot finders and pollution monitors. But as functional and practical as these “smart city” innovations might be, the bigger vision tends to lack a human element: over-planned cities with anonymous, tech-driven environments. Picnickers Anonymous, on the other hand, is an example of “playability” – the idea that small, street-level interruptions can make cities more livable, and spark conversations with friends or strangers about what we would like our cities to be. Whether it’s a dance with a dolphin on your commute or a stroll in someone else’s shadow, this playful urbanism is an idea that Watershed’s Playable City project is attempting to encourage. In cities like Bristol, it has really taken off. Our Shadowing project, for example, recorded then played back the silhouettes of anyone who passed underneath a street light. It was a whimsical idea that resulted in important discussions between citizens and council members around community, surveillance and safety.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Playable Cities project in Bristol. People’s shadows were recorded and played back for others to interact with. Photograph: Toby Farrow/PABut how can an admittedly abstract idea like playability help a hectic, sprawling city like Lagos, where almost two-thirds of the population live in slums, only 40% of the city’s waste is collected, and where power outages are a regular occurrence? In other cities, Watershed’s Playable City programme (a co-production with the British Council) has given awards to Hello Lamp Post – which invited the people of Bristol, Singapore, Austin and Tokyo to strike up conversations with street furniture via text message – and to Aquatic Pathways, a project in Recife, Brazil that asked citizens to identify optimal pick-up spots in the city for river taxis. What would playability look like for Lagos? Even when stuck in a traffic jam, innovation is rife Playability is a process of cultural acupuncture. Certainly, one single idea cannot change cities this large and chaotic overnight, but change is more realistic when it is open and inclusive. A key goal of our project is to develop local networks, so workshops are key, and in Lagos we heard attendees lament that numerous organisations would come to the city to “fix things”, but then leave soon after. Due to Nigeria’s history of military rule, and the feeling that governments fail individuals, Lagosians often shy away from democratic engagement, and important conversations between different voices do not often take place. Social media and the introduction of initiatives like the State Accountability and Voice Initiative (SAVI) have brought about positive change, but widespread distrust of governance structure still erodes any trust in public schemes. The resounding response we’ve heard is that Lagos doesn’t need more injected solutions. Rather, it simply needs to start with citizens coming together – to engage with each other, with state figures and with their local surroundings.Playable Cities: the city that plays together, stays together As well as this important issue of citizen engagement, the discussion centred on urban mobility and waste management. With the help of Future Lagos – a network fostering citizen engagement – we identified locations where we could pin our playable “acupuncture needles”: public spaces where communities intersected, such as bus stops and the bustling sprawl of Balogun market. Next, in March, a 10-day playability lab will bring together young professionals from a variety of backgrounds (including architecture, poetry and game design) in a programme of workshops, site visits and creative activities, to research and develop prototypes of playable interventions for the streets of Lagos. At the end of the lab, the prototypes will be demonstrated and tested in public.But perhaps the key to playability in Lagos will be the fact that the city is already playable. The mayhem of this metropolis creates unique opportunities for inclusivity, openness and the reappropriation of space. There may not be stable electricity, but people are forced to think outside the box. Even when stuck in a traffic jam, innovation is rife. Car rooftops operate as impromptu off-licences, and food, drink and even international currency is exchanged through vehicle windows. This city is full of various networks of creative urban thinkers who just might not think of themselves that way yet. Whether it’s around a workshop table or a picnic blanket, playability murmurs in Lagos – it just needs a push.How is your Lagos changing? Share your stories and photos with Guardian Witness or on Twitter/Instagram using#GuardianLagos, and follow us on Twitter and Facebook to join the Lagos discussion all week long