When Nasa astronaut and comparative physiologist Jessica Meir tweeted about entering the “space equivalent zone, where water spontaneously boils” last week, one man, whose Twitter bio said he had once been to space camp, responded as follows: “Wouldn’t say it’s spontaneous. The pressure in the room got below the vapor pressure of the water at room temp. Simple thermo.”Naturally, Twitter responded magnificently, with other users queuing up to congratulate him on his expertise and asking him to “please explain science in more detail to the tweeting astronaut”.He wasn’t alone. In recent months, there has been a spate of men stepping up to foist their own, less informed perspectives on far more qualified women.At a rally last week, Donald Trump got in on the act. When former aviation operations specialist and US Marine Corps veteran Rachel Fredericks, who suffers from PTSD, asked Trump what action he would take to “stop 20 veterans a day from killing themselves”, Trump’s immediate response was: “Actually, it’s 22.” Fredericks was left shaking her head as Trump cited statistics less up to date than her own.This came only a month after astrophysicist Katherine J Mack tweeted her distress about the damage being caused by climate change, only for a male blogger to suggest: “Maybe you should learn some actual SCIENCE then.” Luckily, Mack had the perfect response: But even her excellent retort wasn’t allowed to go unchallenged. The man, not knowing when to quit, delete his Twitter account and reconsider his life choices, replied: “Then you should ask for a refund because they failed to teach you the most basics of science”. When Mack fired back with further proof of her credentials, another male tweeter stepped in to instruct her: “Katie, as much as its hilarious, let’s not entertain the trolls.” Because it would have been too much to let the incredibly intelligent and qualified astrophysicist choose her own method of dealing with the problem.Women in a wide variety of fields can encounter this problem, as Olympic cyclist Annemiek van Vleuten discovered when she had a serious crash during the women’s road race in Rio. Tweeter Martin Betancourt offered her this generous advice: “Frst lesson in bicycling, keep your bike steady … whether fast or slow.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dutch Olympian and champion cyclist Annemiek van Vleuten. Photograph: Bryn Lennon/AFP/Getty ImagesBeing corrected by less qualified men is a phenomenon reported by many women, particularly those with expertise in a male-dominated area. At the Everyday Sexism Project, we’ve heard from an IT worker whose less experienced male colleagues outline basic computer functions to her in meetings, an engineer who had a man try to explain solar panels to her and a woman who dealt with a customer slowly spelling out her own company policies to her while calling her “honey”.The witty responses to such situations can raise a smile – such as the time one Twitter user tweeted about men explaining things to her, only to have a man respond with a classic mansplain. But there is a serious underlying issue here. These interactions are the visible manifestation of societal assumptions about women’s inferiority in intellectual and professional situations. They represent the same ingrained stereotypes that lead to women being less frequently promoted or hired for certain jobs. The same issues are at play when women find themselves being spoken over in the workplace, when a client directs every question to a junior male colleague or when a woman makes a suggestion in a meeting and is ignored, only for the same idea to be voiced by a male colleague, to loud agreement, moments later. It is what writer Soraya Chemaly has described as “good old-fashioned sexism expressed in gendered socialization and a default cultural preference for institutionalized male domination of public life”.However, as Chemaly points out, the way to fix it isn’t simply to suggest that women need to be more assertive, as we are often told. The problem doesn’t spring from hesitant women wringing their hands and dithering until a heroic man rides in and provides an explanation. The aforementioned astronaut, astrophysicist, Marine Corp veteran and Olympic cyclist hardly fit that description. No, it arises when men are brought up in a world that teaches them that their knowledge and opinions are worth more than those of a far more qualified woman. It happens when some men act on these ingrained assumptions. And its impact, particularly in the workplace, can go far beyond the initial annoyance. The only way to stop it is to change the narrative that sets up male contributions as superior in the first place, not to “train” women to deal with it later on.In the meantime, here is a good rule of thumb for overenthusiastic men on Twitter to follow: if she’s wearing a Nasa spacesuit, take a minute to consider whether you really want to tell her how to do her job. Or, as one tweeter put it, “This lesson went well, I think. But you should have told her to smile more. Women love that.” 