By most standards, the cinema experience is catastrophically overrated. It’s too expensive, there are too many adverts to sit through and then, when the film finally begins, it’ll almost definitely be a patience-testing instalment of a never-ending story about a man in a sparkly leotard punching a cartoon. Plus, the last time I went, the Tango Ice Blast machine was broken. The whole thing is inexcusably poor.An independent cinema in Iowa, however, might have saved theatrical film presentation in a way that 3D, surround sound and expensive seat upgrades have not. Because it’s got a pig in it.According to the Des Moines Register, Joy the pig is the star attraction of Newton’s Capitol II Theatre. Locals flock there, apparently, because the thrill of seeing a pig in a tutu putting rings on a stick with its mouth at least equals the satisfaction of remaining culturally informed. Before she could appear at Capitol II, Joy’s owners had to overturn a city code stating that “all swine are dangerous” – but now she is being credited with single-handedly reviving a bankrupt business.It’s a genius marketing move. When Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice was released, they dressed Joy up like Batman. When Kenneth Branagh’s Cinderella was released, they dressed Joy up in a pretty ballgown. When one of the more recent Spider-Man movies was released – if Joy’s website is any indication – they put her on a lead and made her shake hands with Spider-Man, possibly to thank him for his civic-minded public spirit.If you’re completely honest with yourself, you would go to the Capitol II Theatre if you could. Given the choice of visiting an anonymous multiplex cinema full of ruthless brand consistency, or the chance to see a pig dressed up like Batman playing a miniature xylophone with its hooves, you’d choose the pig every single time. Everyone would. Just look at the internet and ask yourself what people get most excited about: blandly carpeted cinema lobbies, or pigs in dresses? The pig wins every time.Of course, it’s nothing new for independent cinemas to have gimmicks that set them apart from the competition – London’s Prince Charles cinema has regular singalong and all-night events, while the Peckhamplex has its unmistakably unique smell of wet dishrags – but none of them are quite as good the Capitol II’s funny pig.And this is probably a cause for concern. Big cinema chains are notorious for doing anything if it’ll make them a quick buck. Now that Joy is fast becoming a star, it’s just a matter of time before they start bringing in their own animals in a cynical Harris & Hoole-ing of an organic movement.Sure, right now it’s fun to watch a pig run around a hat to entertain children but, when Cineworld starts to force an army of sad-eyed monkeys wearing “Name: Bubbles, Favourite Film: Anaconda” badges to complete Rubik’s Cubes behind panes of glass when you’re queueing to buy a Tango Ice Blast, you’ll be laughing on the other side of your face.