What if Penguin publishing was actually run by penguins? Is your boyfriend three children in a trench coat? Is there such a thing as being good deep down, or is everyone a bad person? BoJack Horseman, the animated comedy about a celebrity talking horse, is so much more than an animated comedy about a celebrity talking horse. It is, at once, the silly story of a washed-up sitcom star with a pink cat for an agent, and a complex portrayal of despair and self-loathing. For all its jokes – and there are many – it is one of the most subversively sad shows on TV, and represents a sea change in comedy: the dawning of the age of the sadcom.Will Arnett stars as the titular horse, whose feel-good sitcom Horsin’ Around made him famous in the 90s. Fast-forward 20 years and he is an alcoholic has-been who has collapsed into a black hole of depression, narcissism, pettiness and spite. While the first series followed BoJack’s comeback from obscurity, powered by One Trick Pony, a tell-all memoir aimed at making him relevant again – at the cost of seeing who he really is – series two pivots around the idea of reinvention, and whether it is truly possible. In season three, which airs on Netflix this Friday, he is now in line for an Oscar nomination but the struggle for meaning continues.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   He may be in line for an Oscar, but he’s also in a black hole of depression, narcissism, pettiness and spite … BoJack Horseman. Photograph: NetflixOf course, BoJack Horseman is not the first show to explore successful, hard-drinking men who are unhappy but unsure why. The golden age of television has notably championed the antihero; difficult men such as Tony Soprano and Don Draper who lead lives of self-destruction and moral ambiguity. They’re assholes, but interesting, almost aspirational – the sort of men who tell you existential ennui excuses everything. Unlike Draper though, BoJack is taken to task for his bad behaviour from the get-go. His every petty act adds up, affecting him and the people around him. When BoJack begs his friend Diane to tell him he’s a good person, she replies: “I don’t think I believe in ‘deep-down’. I think that all you are is just the things that you do.”It’s never explicitly said that BoJack is depressed, but you can see the signs, and it’s the sort of portrayal you rarely see on television. It’s not about lying around all day and crying; it’s asking tough questions of who you really are. In BoJack’s case, this means asking how responsible he is for his own actions. Depression can be an overwhelming disorder, one that distorts the world and betrays the mind. But is BoJack’s horrible behaviour his fault, or beyond his control – a neglectful childhood, perhaps, or being “born broken”? It may be both, but does it make a difference? As his best (human) friend Todd tells him: “You can’t keep doing shitty things and then feel bad about yourself like that makes it OK ... You are all the things that are wrong with you. It’s not the alcohol or the drugs or any of the shitty things that happen to you in your career or when you were a kid. It’s you.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It’s never explicitly said that BoJack is depressed, but you can see the signs, and it’s the sort of portrayal you rarely see on TV. Photograph: NetflixThese are questions psychiatrists and psychoanalysts have been arguing over for the last 100 years. And here they are again, being asked in a show where the D falls off the Hollywood sign so everyone just starts calling Hollywood “Hollywoo” instead.People will be talking about Lady Dynamite 50 years from now BoJack Horseman’s weighty, deconstructive approach to mental health is representative of a wider shift in comedy. We’ve moved away from uplifting stories about people overcoming sadness (usually by getting laid), and on to stories of people just trying to live with it. US sitcom You’re the Worst follows the clinically depressed Gretchen, who insists she can’t be fixed. Surreal Netflix comedy Lady Dynamite charts the post-breakdown life of comedian Maria Bamford. And in Channel 4’s dark comedy Flowers, Julian Barratt’s depressed children’s writer Maurice tells his wife, “I’m not unhappy because of you. This is just who I am and I don’t know how to change that. I don’t know what I can do to make it stop. Every morning I wake up and the first thing I think of is killing myself. I feel exhausted all the time. I find it impossible to gain any sort of pleasure from anything ... It’s as if I’ve had a set amount of life assigned to me and I’ve used it all up. There’s nothing left.”Writer Jenny Jaffe has defined the sadcom as “the raw, honest, surprisingly hopeful, long-gestating progeny of M*A*S*H” – comedies such as Louie, Rick and Morty and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, whose dark, humorous cynicism are offset by a sincere sense of optimism and heart. As a monkey says in BoJack Horseman, “Every day it gets a little easier. But you gotta do it every day – that’s the hard part. But it does get easier.” Maybe this is why unhappiness is better off explored through comedy: there’s a truth to it, a way to say more with less, a mix of textures closer to real life than any straight, miserable drama.After all, if we didn’t laugh, we’d just cry. BoJack Horseman returns to Netflix on Friday.