Take Me Out Celebrity Special 7pm, ITVIt’s a case of “Let the moderately famous gentlemen see the ladies” as Towie goon James “Arg” Argent, DJ and presenter Melvin Odoom and Olympic gymnast Nile Wilson take their places on the gently titillating dating show. Paddy McGuinness is on hand with the quips as the contestants step out of the Love Lift and into the fray with single women who are ready to rate them, date them and bin them off if they don’t fancy them. Oi and, indeed, oi. Hannah VerdierThe Jump 7.30pm, Channel 4Unashamedly daft, sure, but this winter sports challenge has become a reliable post-Christmas treat. Its appeal comes down to Davina McCall’s nicely pitched ringmastery, the delight the participants take in their knockabout exploits and, let’s be honest, the danger quotient, which has seen off this year’s biggest name, Bradley Wiggins. Due to the show’s compressed filming schedule, Wiggins remains in the competition for tonight’s episode, which features the skeleton. Phil HarrisonSS-GB 9pm, BBC1It’s 1941 and, for police detective Douglas Archer (Sam Riley), the mean streets of London have gotten particularly vicious. That’s because we’re in alternate history territory and he’s plying his trade under Nazi occupation. Things get more complex when he’s assigned to investigate what seems to be a straightforward black-market murder case, that turns out to be anything but. Adapted from a Len Deighton potboiler, a slow-burning drama that requires you pay attention. Jonathan WrightSpecial Forces: Ultimate Hell Week 9pm, BBC2The delightful Ultimate Hell Week continues its hellish endurance test by taking its band of unfortunates out to South Korea, where they train with the country’s underwater demolition team. If the name alone doesn’t strike you as being a genuine cause for concern, soon enough they’re dragging truck tyres up hills, carrying boats on their heads and assuming the “thinking man position”, a singularly gruelling exercise. Ben ArnoldTom Waits: Tales From A Cracked Jukebox 9pm, BBC4Tom Waits guards his privacy tightly – one recent biography included an entire appendix of emails from associates declining to be interviewed – but can be generous with those he does speak to. Using a surprising wealth of archive footage, this film charts Waits’s retreat into the spotlight, a post-cabaret artist turned avant-garde pin-up. Revealing the “real” Tom Waits is clearly a doomed mission, but this is at least an entertaining ride. John RobinsonTerror 9pm, VicelandVice co-founder Suroosh Alvi revisits Iraq, still under siege by Isis terrorists, as a volley of bullets aimed at his vehicle convoy attests; at the time of filming, the cities of Fallujah and Ramadi were still in Isis’s control. Alvi provides a concise overview of Iraq’s history since the first world war, interviewing Paul Bremer, whose disastrous stewardship of post-invasion Iraq led to its present pass, as well as a former inmate of Camp Bucca detention facility, now an upscale hotel. David StubbsMarvel’s Agents Of SHIELD 9pm, E4In season four of the superhero series, upstanding Phil Coulson and his Happy Days gang of SHIELD agents have belatedly found their Fonzie: Ghost Rider. He’s the fast and furious embodiment of the spirit of vengeance, a brooding hot rodder with a flaming skull, fireproof racing leathers and an arsenal of sick burns. After working at cross-purposes, Coulson and Mr Rider find a common enemy, and the result causes actual fireworks. Graeme VirtueFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Full of gutsy action ... The Big Red One. Photograph: Lorimar/REX/ShutterstockThe Big Red One: The Reconstruction, (Samuel Fuller, 1980) Sunday, 10.05pm, TCMFuller’s tribute to his second world war comrades follows a platoon of the US army’s first infantry division through combat in Sicily, D-day and north Africa to the liberation of the concentration camps. It’s a grunt’s-eye view of the battlefield, full of gutsy action, courage and fear, but also remains level-headed and authentic thanks partly to the performance of real-life war veteran Lee Marvin as an experienced sergeant looking out for his initially green soldiers (one of them played by Mark Hamill). Paul HowlettOz The Great And Powerful, (Sam Raimi, 2013), 6pm, BBC2Sam Raimi’s loving if somewhat tardy prequel to 1939’s wonderful Wizard Of Oz stars James Franco as huckster Oscar Diggs, who is swept up by a twister in monochrome 1905 Kansas and deposited, Dorothy-like, in the Technicolor land of Oz. There he encounters flying monkeys, munchkins and good witch Glinda (Michelle Williams), and discovers his better nature in a charming, CGI-laden tribute movie. Paul HowlettX-Men: Days Of Future Past, (Bryan Singer, 2014), 9pm, Channel 4After all manner of sequels and prequels, old hand Bryan Singer goes all Terminator-like with the lovable band of superheroes. In a dizzyingly silly and enjoyable film, Hugh Jackman’s Wolverine is sent back in time from a dark, rubble-covered future where robot sentinels hunt and destroy mutants to the 1970s, to prevent Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence) attempting the assassination that leads to all that future mayhem. Whatever, it sets the scene for some blistering action. Paul HowlettPhoenix, (Christian Petzold, 2014), 11pm, BBC4Following their communist East Germany drama Barbara, director Petzold and the excellent Nina Hoss reunite for this intricate and noirish postwar thriller. Hoss plays Nelly, a concentration camp survivor given a new face after surgery on her disfigured features. Her estranged husband Johnny (Ronald Zehrfeld) does not recognise her when they meet in a Berlin club, but inveigles her into a complex and frankly implausible scam. Nevertheless, it’s a twisty tale of intrigue and guilt. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportSnooker: Welsh Open 12.45pm, Eurosport 2Coverage of the final from Cardiff’s Motorpoint Arena.FA Cup Football: Fulham v Tottenham Hotspur 1.40pm, BBC1Championship outfit Fulham spy an upset. Blackburn v Man United airs at 3.45pm on BT Sport 2.Rugby Union: Sale Sharks v Wasps 2.30pm, BT Sport 1High-flying Wasps take on struggling Sale at the AJ Bell Stadium. Kick-off 3pm.