It might have been a horror scene. It might have been a sex scene. It might have been misconstrued slapstick or satire you weren’t ready for. Whatever it was, if you watched it too early it’s likely that it left you with a deep-seeded phobia – of planes, of drains, of puppets, of milk – or a new understanding of the world that you wish you didn’t know.Guardian Australia contributors share their most scarring screen memories and welcome you to share yours in the comments below.Steph Harmon: I thought the sex scene in Hot Shots! was sexyI’m not sure what’s more embarrassing: the fact that Charlie Sheen was my first celebrity crush, or the fact that an outrageously stupid Top Gun spoof was my introduction to sex.I was six years old when I watched Hot Shots!. I had no idea it was a parody. I also had no idea it was a comedy. To me, Hot Shots! was the most thrilling and romantic drama of our time. When he rolls up a pizza like a cigarette and shoves it into her mouth? Seductive. When he puts a stuffed olive into her belly button, and pops it into her mouth? Deeply erotic.And when he cracks an egg onto her belly and fries it with two strips of bacon and a hash brown? Just a normal sexy thing that happens in the bedroom.The extent to which this film affected my adolescence is unclear. But I still flee red-faced from my parents’ kitchen whenever dad is cooking breakfast.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tom Ross: The Witches made me terrified of milk and old ladies I was six years old when my mum took me to see the film adaptation of Roald Dahl’s beloved children’s book; a junk food-deprived kid, sulkily peeling the cling wrap from his Vegemite Vita-Weat sandwich. But as soon as those green opening credits flew at my face, my popcorn envy flew out the window. Jaunty violin strings whisked me away. I soared over snow-capped mountains. Spellbound.The magic shattered after two minutes. What followed was a solid ninety-minute mugging of my innocence. And it all started in that cold dark house in cold dark Norway. I shared a gasp with little Luke as his grandmother warned him that witches actively stalk and murder children. I too clenched my jaw as Grandma slapped her hideous pinkie stub down on the dining room table. But, it was the story of the young pig-tailed Erica that really got under my soft skin. The poor girl who vanished off the face of the planet, only to resurface, locked in an oil painting. That was when curls of Vegemite shot through my Vita-Weat holes. The Witches had officially stomped all over my childhood with their sensible shoes. I became terrified of old ladies. Of milk. Of Norway. And of the embodiment of pure evil: Anjelica Huston.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Walkabout rewatched – a wilderness of the mind as much as of the land Monica Tan: Walkabout introduced me to the incomprehensibleI was around 10 years old when I watched this film, on television in a bedroom at my grandma’s house. Nobody was properly watching it, it was just playing in the background, so I only remember snippets: white people in colonial garb, a young Indigenous man. They were walking through a desert. One night he danced for the white girl with branches in his hands until he was exhausted. To her it was just a funny little piece of theatre. I was too young to understand why this scene made me shiver. There were things happening here that I sensed belonged to the world of adults and my brain naturally recoiled from them.The next morning the girl found the black boy’s body hanging from the tree. I was shocked. I felt sick to my stomach. If he had killed himself – which was how I read it – I was not only harrowed by the intensity of his expression but the mildness of her reaction. She hadn’t acknowledged his offering and now that he was dead it still affected her so little.For years the images of him dancing to the point of collapse, his feet swinging from the tree, stayed with me, but I never knew the name of this film. Only as a university student, when I shared this story with my film class, did my professor tell me I had been watching a great Australian classic.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Pádraig Collins: Spinal Tap made a mockery of me and my peopleIt was November 1985 and I was a teenage metalhead with some time to kill before going to see English hard rock band Magnum play a midnight show in Dublin. I’d heard This Is Spinal Tap was about a touring rock band but, other than that, I knew nothing about it. The poster featured long-haired guys playing guitar. That was enough for me; it sounded right up my street.But it wasn’t. I was outraged they were taking the piss out of metal. The Stonehenge scene, in particular, infuriated me. The music was actually good, incorporating the type of progressive rock I loved, but the minuscule Stonehenge replica and the leprechauns dancing around it were the last straw. They were making metal bands and their fans seem like halfwits.Magnum soothed my troubled soul that night, but I still wanted to hunt down and kill everyone involved with Spinal Tap.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Something made me watch the film again a couple of years later. It was, and remains, one of the funniest films I’ve ever seen. My love of metal had decreased in inverse proportion to my appreciation of satire. I have Spinal Tap on VHS. I have it on DVD. I get it.Helen Davidson: thanks to It, I can’t look into drainsI was a gigantic wussbag as a kid and when all my friends started to get into slasher films, sleepovers became a nightmare. For a long time I made excuses: “Ugh, sorry guys, Mum’s making me go home.” Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Urban Legend, Child’s Play – never seen them. But there was one I didn’t escape. It was an afternoon in 1998. I was 12. The film was It.The scenes that stick in my mind and will haunt me forever are numerous. I try not to think about them much. That face flashing between the flapping sheets on the line. The abandoned paper boat in a gutter. Those fangs. THE SINK GEYSER OF BLOOD.For months afterwards I was terrified of going into a bathroom, and would plug up the sink as soon as I walked into one. Showers became shorter (you’re welcome, environment), and I still don’t like taking baths. The obligatory teenage dalliance with skater punk covered most bands except Pennywise, and I’m a big fan of the funpark rifle range mainly because of the lack of rotating clown faces.Drains? Forget it. Even at the age of I-should-know-better, the thought of standing next to one – let alone looking into it – gives me the creeps. And I will neither confirm or deny that on dark and stormy nights I can still sometimes be seen crossing roads to avoid them.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest David Munk: Damien: Omen 2 was a terrible moment for meI was 12 or 13 when I watched Damien: Omen 2 on video, one night in my mum and dad’s house. The house was off an old dirt track miles from anywhere on the island of Efate, which is part of Vanuatu in the South Pacific. My parents were out and as I watched it I got super scared and had to bring my dog Sacha in to join me in the terror. Halfway through, the power cut out and the lights and TV went off. I went outside the house with Sacha and remember walking into a moving carpet of coconut crabs as they made their way to the the beach, making horrible shell scraping, clicky noises. They were monstrous things, and I raced back inside and waited for the lights to come on. I was freaked out.The film has always scared me. I seem to remember crows and some kid with an evil haircut and spooky music, which later turned up on an advert for Old Spice. Not sure I actually got to the end though.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Russell Jackson: The Dark Crystal – what was Jim Henson thinking?When I was maybe six or seven years old we had a home-recorded VHS tape, which had The Never Ending Story at the start and at least the first hour of The Dark Crystal at the end. The former was pretty harmless fare for a child, but a few times my brothers made me hang in there for the latter, and it freaked the living hell out of me. What was Jim Henson thinking? What were my brothers thinking? A quick glance at Google images has it all flooding back, none of it good. My memory is of evil, gnarly looking monster puppets and half-humans, a bracing step up from the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.IMDB explains The Dark Crystal thus: “On another planet in the distant past, a Gelfling embarks on a quest to find the missing shard of a magical crystal, and so restore order to this world.” To 2016 me, this sounds like a bad ice binge, but my parents clearly deemed it appropriate viewing. Perhaps it wasn’t even inappropriate, but just deeply creepy. A movie like that would never be aimed at kids these days. Perhaps subconsciously it’s why I also never embraced the world of the Lord of the Rings/Narnia/Game of Thrones. I never wanted to venture back into the enchanted forest.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Apparently The Dark Crystal only broke even at the US box office because upon its 1982 release it was up against ET and Tootsie, though you’d think word also spread among parents that this was some dark material. In Iran they just flat-out banned it.Were you ever scarred by a film that you weren’t ready for? Get in on the discussion below.