Black American writer Ta-Nehisi Coates has said of the American dream that it exists in ice-cream socials and Fourth of July cookouts. I see the Australian dream in shopping malls and coffee shops. It is in cinemas and playgrounds. The dream lives in the beach and the outback: it is a tourist brochure.We advertise the dream on television. It is in the smile of a young blonde-haired girl driving a new car. The dream is a mother and father and a girl in pigtails carrying a doll, turning the key in the front door of their new home. The first people of this land who have suffered for your greatness did nothing to deserve it On weekends I get up close to the dream. It is on the sidelines at my sons’ football games. Fathers, in loafers and boots and checked shirts and sweaters. It is in steak sandwiches and beers. It is in how comfortable they are with each other, regardless of where they hail from.They welcome me. Yet in a deep, fundamental way they are strangers. As close as I get I still can’t become one of them. I can count them as friends. I can smile, I can stop and chat but deep down I also know we are speaking a different language. The fault is as likely mine. There is a chasm here and I am not yet ready to cross. We occupy the same land, but we tell ourselves very different stories.They tell themselves this is a great country of good people.Stan Grant: why, after years of foreign reporting, I'm now turning my focus on to my own people Here is how we – Indigenous people – see the Australian dream: here’s the worst of it. Aborigines rounded up and shot, babies buried into the sand and decapitated, women raped, men killed as they hid in the forks of trees, waterholes poisoned, flour laced with arsenic. The Australian dream abandoned us to rot on government missions, tore apart families, condemned us to poverty. There was no place for us in this modern country and everything we have won has come from dissent, it has been torn from the reluctant grasp of a nation that for much of its history hoped that we would disappear.We know this history, my people. This is a living thing. We touch it and we wear it. It is written in the scars on the bodies of men like my father. It is carried deep within us, mental wounds that cannot heal. It is so close we can touch it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Engraving by Rennoldson of Captain Cook’s ship Endeavour laid on the shoreline of New Holland – now Queensland. ‘There were people standing on the shore as Cook weighed anchor.’ Photograph: Science & Society Picture Librar/Getty ImagesWhen I was a baby my grandfather held me in his arms; he was the son of a man born on to the frontier before the collection of colonies even became Australia. A frontier marked with violence, disease and death. From me to my grandfather to his father: that’s how close it is.Being good and great does not absolve you from a terrible sin and a pain inflicted on a people who did nothing to deserve it. Remember that: the first people of this land who have suffered for your greatness did nothing to deserve it. A truly great country – if we truly believe that – should be held to great account.Watching my son sleep, hearing his steady breathing as we move through our land, calms me. I could be alone forever in these moments, surrounded by my country and with the boy whose bloodline through me stretches back an eternity. We are together in our place and I am aware that it may seem as if I have defied history. But we never do: do we?Erased from historyI was born into what the anthropologist WEH Stanner called the “great Australian silence”. It was the period of forgetting. The myths we created fed Australia’s lie: that no blood had stained the wattle. We were told a story of peace and bravery and the conquest of a continent. This was the inevitable push into the interior, a land opening up before the explorers. It was empty; tamed and claimed.These were the myths of my childhood, the myths of my education. In this telling, Australia was discovered by Captain James Cook. The Endeavour was a ship of destiny that led to the first fleet. On 13 May 1787, 11 ships set sail with a cargo of prisoners to found a penal colony in New South Wales – but the true first fleet landed here 60,000 years earlier. I was told that Lawson, Blaxland and Wentworth were the first people to cross the Blue Mountains.There were people standing on the shore as Cook weighed anchor. Smoke from campfires trailed the white men who trekked over the great mountains west of Sydney; black people watched these people who appeared like ghosts. But that story wasn’t told in my classroom. The lesson I learned was that we didn’t matter. In fact we didn’t even exist.I was young when I began to question all of this. Even through the eyes of a boy the glory of Australia did not match with the reality of our lives. Something was rotten here. Each morning at school I would stand in line to recite the pledge: I honour my God, I serve my Queen, I salute the flag. And then, in the evening I would return home to where this flag had deposited us. Home was wherever we could find it. It was a home on the margins, outside of town, outside looking in.Here, was my place, among the detritus of the frontier: the huddled remnants of the hundreds of nations who formed here as the continent formed around them. Two thousand generations of civilisation and culture, all of it now smashed against the reality of white settlement, a people whose land was taken because the people themselves were not legally here.School told me we faded from the frontier. The dying pillow was smoothed to soften our inevitable extinction.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stan Grant with his class at school in 1971 (middle row, second from right). Photograph: Stan GrantIt need not have been this way. The birth of Australia was meant to be so different. For a brief moment there was hope. Captain Arthur Phillip founded a penal colony with instructions from the crown to protect the lives and livelihoods of Aboriginal people and forge friendly relations with the natives. There were reports of black and white people dancing together with joy in the early days of the settlement. The local people began teaching their language to the newcomers. Here’s what we could have been. In this moment there was a glimpse of a better Australia, and we failed.Within a matter of years violence had broken out on both sides and Phillip would now instruct raiding parties to bring back the severed heads of the local warriors. Within a generation the heads of Aborigines were shipped back to Britain in glass cases, to be studied as relics of a doomed race.Enlightened people throughout the world were wrestling with ideas of humanity and civilisation. The notion that all men are created equal was alive in the world. The “immortal declaration” – as it was known – had been penned by Thomas Jefferson at the birth of America’s independence a decade before the first fleet arrived on these shores.Yet, such lofty ideals had no place here. Not for us. We were dismissed as brutes. We were deemed to be the living example of what the 17th century philosopher Thomas Hobbes meant when he spoke of the natural state as being “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short”. At best to some we were the “noble savage”. We belonged to those so-called primitive people uncorrupted by civilisation. Yet such relics were seen to have no place in a modern world. The great writer of his age, Charles Dickens, spoke for many when he described such peoples as cruel, bloodthirsty and murderous. In Dickens’ words we were whistling, clucking, tearing savages that he wished civilised off the face of the earth.Closing the political gap: listen to us, engage with us, empower us | Stan Grant Charles Darwin – the father of the theory of evolution – visited Australia and despaired at the impact of colonisation. There was some “mysterious agency”, he said, that meant that “wherever the European has trod, death seems to pursue the aboriginal [sic]”. There was of course nothing mysterious at all in the theft of land and the disease and violence that followed. Yet to Darwin – as sad as our passing may be – this was unavoidable, inevitable. His theories were born out of a belief in our common humanity but his name was linked to a popular acceptance of a hierarchy of races where the stronger trumps the weaker: “social Darwinism”.How easy it can be in the sweep of history to stop seeing the individual lives. These were my ancestors they were speaking of, my great-great-grandparents. Such views formed a powerful logic that was unshakable. It provided the moral blindfold through which people could no longer even see the atrocities perpetrated on my people. Even those people, whose eyes were opened to this suffering, accepted that our fate was doomed.My ancestors were driven to the brink of extinction. We survived – the half-white remnants of the first nations herded on to Christian missions. We were told this would save us from the brutality of the frontier. But we often lived like inmates, roped and tied if we dared escape.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stan Grant’s grandfather Cecil Grant (middle row, fourth from right) with fellow troops in Tobruk, Egypt, during the second world war. Unlike the other men, Cecil Grant was not officially recognised as an Australian citizen. Photograph: Stan GrantNow, I was a confused young boy at school, ashamed of what I was. I would cringe against the black-and-white ethnographic films: the snot-smeared faces of the little “piccaninnies”, the flyblown women grinding seed into flour, the bedraggled, bearded men gripping a spear, one leg resting against a knee. I remember there was always a narrator with perfectly rounded vowels telling of the “once proud tribes of Aborigines”. Each head turned to look at me, and I felt anything but pride.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Indigenous protesters in Sydney in 2015, rallying against plans to close communities in Western Australia. Photograph: Lisa Maree Williams/Getty ImagesI saw my reflection in Australia and felt diminished. Everything told me I wasn’t equal. The whites told the story of this land now; there was no glory in us. There was nothing that redeemed my ancestors. In books proudly titled The Making of Australia – a key school text of the 1960s – we were dismissed as the “dark-skinned wandering tribes who hurled boomerangs and ate snakes”, not fit to be counted in the glorious tale of white men and women who found the land, explored it, and made it a nation.Back then no one wrote of our great deeds. If we existed at all, we were a footnote, a prehistoric relic. My life has led me to this point“What does it feel like to be an Indigenous person in Australia?” A boy who grew up with a love of words … was now being asked to speak to his country I am standing in a radio studio in Sydney trying to explain why it is that we are so vulnerable and exposed in our own country. The interviewer – ABC’s Richard Glover – I have always found a gentle soul. His interviews are less about what divides us; at his best he looks to knit together the frayed fibres of our shared humanity. He has learned first-hand that what we do to each other can come from something missing or damaged in ourselves. He has also learned one of the most valuable lessons of life, that we are better than our worst. He has written eloquently of his own journey into his troubled family and how it has shaped him. It lends Richard empathy and there is softness in his question that is comforting and disarming.What does it feel like? I could resort to moral outrage. I could recite the litany of injustice and brutality that has been visited on my people. I could roll out that endless list of damning statistics that always ends in that same mantra: we are the most impoverished, disadvantaged people in the country. All of this would be true. I could speak with anger throwing up words like guilt and shame and blame. In this too I would not be wrong. But I find myself searching for something else.  Stan Grant’s father and mother, and his father’s sisters and brother. Photograph: Stan GrantI have grown beyond the angry student of my youth. I have had to confront my own failings so it is not hard to understand, even forgive, the failings of others. Australia is bigger than us all and we only hold it for a brief moment before handing it to our children. I suppose I am a diplomat by nature; I seek equilibrium and balance. In this I am the essence of my astrological sign, Libra. More than that there is harsh pragmatism; we are only a fraction of this country’s population and if we can’t speak to the country as a whole then I fear we are doomed. As I look for the words to try to answer Richard’s question, I seek the language of healing because we just can’t take any more pain.I tell Richard how vulnerable we can be. I tell him of the little boy I once was who felt so ashamed of his colour that he tried to scrub it off. I tell him of the ache of poverty and how my family had roamed the back roads looking for a home in a land we had lost. I tell him of how a sideways glance or a snickering child could steal our souls. I tell him how we have learned to measure our words and lower our voices for fear of being howled down. I tell him that even now, despite carving out a place for myself, I could so easily be crushed by rejection. And he listens. He gives me the space to find these words and he lets them settle.Stan Grant: I can tell you how Adam Goodes feels. Every Indigenous person has felt it As I speak my mind reaches back through the years. At times I swallow hard and feel my heart beat that fraction quicker. I find a space at the back of the studio and fix my gaze, occasionally glancing away when my voice catches and a tear forms. At these moments I am with my mother and father; I am seated on the steps on a sunny day with my grandfather circling the tips on his racing form guide. I am flicking towels and dunking my friends – black brothers all – on an egg-frying-hot day at the Griffith swimming pool. I feel them all with me and know that I am never alone and what I say speaks for them too.My life had led me to this point. A boy who grew up with a love of words, who sat at the feet of his parents and heard stories of struggle and survival, was now being asked to speak to his country. I felt this responsibility heavily and I had come to it reluctantly. But old wounds were being reopened. I had grown up with the legacy of Australian racism and here it was rearing its head again. We – Australians black and white – meet each other across the gulf of our history. If I was being called to this story then it came from my ancestors: it came from my great-grandfather Bill Grant – a man born of black and white, a man whose name I read on the roll call of people from Bulgandramine mission. I was following the tradition of a man they called the storyteller.• Talking to My Country by Stan Grant is published in Australia by Harper Collins, priced $29.99 – and is available in iBooks here.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The veteran journalist and Wiradjuri man, Guardian Australia’s Indigenous affairs editor Stan Grant, has told a Sydney audience that racism is ‘at the heart of the Australian dream’, as he delivered a speech about the impact of colonisation and discrimination on Indigenous people and their ancestorsAbout Stan GrantIn July 2015 Stan Grant, presenter and international editor of Sky News in Australia, wrote a piece for Guardian Australia condemning the booing meted out by some elements of the crowd to Adam Goodes, an Indigenous man and star Australian rules footballer. Grant wrote: “To Adam’s ears, the ears of so many Indigenous people, these boos are a howl of humiliation. A howl that echoes across two centuries of invasion, dispossession and suffering.”The article – a “game-changer” in the words of the judges of the Walkleys, Australia’s premier journalism awards, electrified debate about the country’s treatment of its Indigenous people. The reaction encouraged Grant, son of a Wiradjuri man and Kamilaroi woman, to change his career path. Earlier in his career, Grant writes, he “made a conscious decision that I would not be the ‘Indigenous reporter’.” Now he found that the most important story he wanted to cover was his own: the Indigenous Australian story.Grant became Indigenous affairs editor of Guardian Australia and managing director of National Indigenous Television. In January 2016 a speech Grant had given three months previously, arguing that racism was “the foundation of the Australian dream”, became an internet sensation. Indigenous leader Noel Pearson described it as black Australia’s companion speech to former prime minister Paul Keating’s 1992 landmark Redfern speech acknowledging the brutal impact of European settlement. Grant has said the response to his speech has left him considering whether to enter politics.