With his orange face and distinctly odd hair, Donald Trump stands gleefully holding an inflatable globe. He has the whole world in his hands and he is thrilled.This scene, while possibly not far from reality, is drawn from one of the most topical satirical shows at this year’s Edinburgh fringe. Trumpageddon invites its audience to an intimate political rally where they can fire questions at the Republican nominee, play golf with him and even help him decide on policy – which country he would invade first, for example. Edinburgh festival 2016: the shows we recommend The show is the creation of satirist Simon Jay, who is the only person taking on the persona of Trump at the fringe. Jay, who first landed on the idea of creating a caricature of the billionaire businessman in January, said he never anticipated that the show would be quite so topical by August.Walking through the streets of Edinburgh dressed as Trump, he said he regularly has groups of US tourists shout: “We’re not voting for you,” at him.“This is so out of my comfort zone,” he said. “I’m the antithesis of him, really – a gay, liberal, English socialist who usually prefers playing women. And here I am playing an alpha male with racist and misogynistic views.”With so many US tourists visiting Edinburgh for the festival, Jay said he hoped his satire would be a release valve. At the end of every show, he asks for a show of hands from those who intend to vote for him; he has yet to have any Trump fan reveal themselves.He said: “The show features so many of the ludicrous things he has said and presented as fact – that Isis wants to take over the Vatican, or calling Hillary Clinton the devil. And when I repeat those things, I’ve had Americans in the audience who shake their heads and look pained, as if they are saying: “Help me.” People are terrified, and rightly so.”Jay spent months watching every piece of footage he could find on Trump, going back to his early days as a young businessman, and did extensive reading into his childhood in a bid to understand “the man behind the monster”. As a result, the show also includes flashbacks to Trump’s childhood.'If I get laughs, I will have failed': Chilcot report recital begins in Edinburgh “To be honest, the more research I did into him, the more shocked and appalled I got,” said Jay.The satirist said he didn’t think he would be able to continue playing the caricature if Trump were elected, because it would be “too depressing to satirise”. He admitted that he had qualms that his show might feed into the “Trump machine” – he said the Republican nominee did not seem to mind what anyone says about him “as long as he is being talked about”. However, Jay said the role of Trumpageddon was not simply to laugh at Trump. “If you hear some of the things he says, it makes you recoil,” said Jay. “By taking them verbatim out of his mouth and into the mouth of this Trump caricature, hopefully it will expose just how ridiculous and dangerous his views are.”