As the song nearly goes, I wanna be a paperback reader. Cheaper and more portable than its austere hardback cousin, the paperback is the true everyman’s book. Yet it’s the hardback that get the lion’s share of the reviews. So here’s the first in a monthly round-up of some of those titles you might have forgotten you were waiting for.FictionMichel Houellebecq’s “darkly clever and funny” Submission pictures a France that has come under Islamic rule. Originally released in French on 7 January 2015, on the day of the Charlie Hebdo attacks, it reached an English-speaking audience in September last year, with reviewer Christopher de Bellaigue declaring it “an enthralling, stunningly pessimistic view of human nature … from Europe’s premier literary misanthrope”. Uncomfortable and satirical – it shows one of France’s great controversialists at his best.Read the full review      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   South African-born novelist, playwright and memoirist Gillian Slovo. Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverGillian Slovo is another writer with a knack, as reviewer Louise Doughty put it, “for doing what few other writers are doing right now: tackling the world we live in head-on,” though she does so in a very different way to Houellebecq. Weaving a story around the 2011 London riots, Ten Days manages to combine the narrative suspense of a thriller with “an acute indictment of the power play between politicians and police management over the thorny issue of public order policy.” Read the full reviewAnother novel that gets under the skin of the British security state is Francesca Kay’s The Long Room. Set in 1981 amidst the Cold War paranoia of the Thatcher government, it focuses on the foot soldiers of state surveillance, tucked away in the “long room” of the title, snooping on conversations. “This is neither a heroic spy novel nor a fable of redemption” wrote Stevie Davies. “Kay is fascinated by ambiguity, the party wall that cleaves private and public worlds.” Read the full review      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Booker longlisted author Bill Clegg. Photograph: Andy Hall for the ObserverPerhaps the standout novel on this list is Bill Clegg’s Did You Ever Have a Family. Longlisted for the 2015 Man Booker prize, it is premised on a house explosion which wipes out a woman’s entire family on the morning of her daughter’s wedding in small-town Connecticut. Clegg, wrote reviewer Clare Clark, “is a master of investing the mundane with what John Updike called ‘its beautiful due’... Did You Ever Have a Family is a meditation on enduring the unendurable, about keeping going even when it seems impossible to find anything worth going on for, but it is also a testament to the solace that comes, if not from forgiveness exactly, then from acceptance.”Read the full reviewFrancis Spufford’s first novel, Golden Hill, is a loving tribute to the literature of the 18th century, in which it is set. This picaresque tale of the travails of an young Londoner who arrives in New York in possession of a mysterious fortune, is, according to reviewer Steven Poole, “a first-class period entertainment, until at length it becomes something more serious.” Read the full reviewPhilip Hensher’s brilliant two volume compendium, the Penguin Book of the British Short Story offers two centuries of gems gathered from a treasury which, he argues, was for much of that time not only at “the centre of literary endeavour, [marking] the spot where great white male writers had performed their most astonishing feats of realism, but ... had often produced voices from the margins of literary endeavour.” From Daniel Defoe to Zadie Smith, his choices are as illuminating as his omissions are infuriating.Read Philip Hensher’s introduction Nonfiction      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sprawling Dadaab refugee camp, almost 500 kilometers north-east of the Kenyan capital Nairobi. Photograph: Tony Karumba/AFP/Getty ImagesThe most poignant nonfiction paperback of the month is Ben Rawlence’s “disturbing and compelling” City of Thorns. Set in Dadaab, the world’s largest refugee camp in Kenya, it is full of “stories that need to be heard”. If this sounds like an important but difficult read, it is worth looking again. “The camp,” wrote Ian Birrell in the Observer, “crackles with energy as Rawlence gives welcome insight into the reality of life for people trapped at the very bottom of global society.” Read the full reviewTiffany Watt Smith’s The Book of Human Emotions is a collection of mini essays exploring human emotions, which interweaves science, philosophy and literature. As reviewer Anita Sethi wrote: “It ranges far beyond Descartes’s six “primitive passions” – wonder, love, hatred, desire, joy sadness – showcasing words from around the world including “toska” (for Nabokov, “toska” was “a longing with nothing to long for”) and “basorexia”, the sudden urge to kiss someone.” Read the full reviewFinallly, Dominic Sandbrook’s The Great British Dream Factory, which makes a case for the UK being a cultural superpower. Think Agatha Christie, the Beatles. Harry Potter. “Sandbrook is not one of those writers who revel in the bits of popular culture that, historically, have appealed to intellectuals,” wrote Matthew Sweet. “The hot core of his story is made of the most thrillingly unlikely material” Read the full reviewTo buy any of these paperbacks at reduced prices, go to the Guardian bookshop.