Our Dancing Town 7pm, BBC2Huddersfield carnival has been cancelled. Thank heavens, then, for choreographer Steve Elias who – as his series aimed at getting Yorkshire moving continues – shows up to give the likes of dance teacher Paige the chance to get out on the street and have a hoof anyway. The piece Elias plans, which celebrates the textile town’s different communities, will encompass blades, bhangra, ballet and boxing – if, that is, Elias’s grand vision survives contact with a washed-out rehearsal. Jonathan WrightMartin Clunes: Islands of Australia 8pm, ITVConclusion of yet another travel series from the celebrity-out-of-one-hat/destination-out-of-another-hat school. Clunes completes his circumnavigation of Australia via its orbiting islands, with an episode visiting the country’s southern coast. The locations – including Mundoo, Phillip and King islands – are nicely photographed, but there is very little difference between watching this and suffering through someone’s holiday videos. Andrew MuellerPortrait Artist of the Year 2017 8pm, Sky ArtsA brush, with fame. Frank Skinner and Joan Bakewell launch the annual search for the UK’s best amateur portraitist, where contenders have just four hours to knock out a decent likeness of a celebrity sitter. In this tricky opening heat, the famous subjects are all actors with noted chameleon qualities: Stanley Tucci, Indira Varma and fresh-faced Freddie Highmore, recently killing it as young Norman in Psycho prequel series Bates Motel. Graeme VirtueFurther Back in Time for Dinner 9pm, BBC2The time-travelling Robshaw family are back for more historical food adventures, shacking up in a turn of the 20th-century terrace in Tooting to assume the position of the newly created, aspirational “middle class”. Beginning in 1900, and observed by historian Polly Russell and Giles Coren, they will discover the joys of calf’s head, multi-course meals and the embarrassment of having a “maid of all works” doing all the graft for them. Ben ArnoldRevolting 10pm, BBC2The hit-and-miss showcase continues via sub-Brass Eye stunts and laboured skits. As per, Jolyon Rubinstein and Heydon Prowse are rebels without a clear cause, darting from undercover nonsense to gratuitous new guises as TV cooks Toby and Toby, who peddle foie gras made by a former Guantánamo prison guard. Full of strangely insipid political takes, although thankfully there is nothing as crass as last week’s forced-marriage “parody” on offer. Hannah J DaviesEx Isle9pm, LifetimeThe five on-off couples who have been shipped off to a remote island together for relationship therapy continue their “journey”. Host Carmen Electra and wise therapist Dr Ish are on hand to calm more tears and shouting, while the ex-couples are baited with alcohol and the opportunity to wear few clothes. This week, there’s a surprise wedding and the realisation that other people’s partners might be more fun than their own, but who’s splitting and who will stay together? Hannah VerdierCase 10pm, Channel 4This Icelandic crime drama is as austere and functional as its title. But its relentless bleakness and downbeat cast of misfits (alcoholic lawyer, sleazebag associate of murder victim, hangdog cop) sometimes nudge it close to self-parody. The case in question is that of Lara, a gruesomely slain teenager with a sexually ambiguous past. This frequently used trope will need careful handling to avoid tastelessness but there are twists aplenty if you have the stomach for it. Phil HarrisonFilm choiceThe Set-Up (Robert Wise, 1949) Tuesday, 6am, Movies4MenRobert Ryan excels in this tremendous fight-movie-cum-film noir. When his battered old pro Stoker refuses to take a dive – believing he’s still “just one punch away” from success – the gangsters who’ve lost out come looking for revenge. A downbeat, uncompromising account of the corrupt fight game, Wise’s taut drama takes place entirely on one grim, despairing night. Ryan, who had been a talented college boxer, gives a superb portrait of stoical honour in a benighted world, while Audrey Totter as his wife, waiting in a rundown hotel is quietly heartbreaking. Paul HowlettThe River Wild (Curtis Hanson, 1994) 6.50pm, Film4A troubled family go whitewater rafting in the wilds and are threatened by killers. Meryl Streep has rarely looked so outdoors-healthy, running the rapids and dealing with husband David Strathairn, son Joseph Mazello and the crooks, Kevin Bacon and creepy John C Reilly. Hanson keeps the action rushing along against handsome Montana scenery. PHToday’s best live sportBowls: World Indoor Championships Rishi Persad presents coverage of the mixed pairs final. 1pm, BBC2Africa Cup of Nations: Morocco v Ivory Coast Reigning champs Ivory Coast take on the Atlas Lions. Togo v DR Congo is showing at the same time over on Eurosport 2. 6.45pm, Eurosport 1Australian Open Tennis The quarter-finals of the Grand Slam tournament continue. 12midnight, Eurosport 1