Sprawled on the immaculate, crisp white sheets of room 1107 is a man. He lies spread-eagle, hands and feet cuffed to the bed, a chain slung between his nipple rings. He is naked aside from a black leather G-string and a black hood, leaving only a moist mouth visible.At this swanky five-star hotel, “Dom” introduces us to his business: a sex counselling service for the “adventurous”. Gyrating to Ian Dury’s Hit Me With Your Rhythm Stick, he asks to be spanked. Cautiously, one girl tickles him with a red feather boa; another sprays him with whipped cream; ice is shoved where the sun don’t shine. (No one touches the rolling pin.) Then Dom introduces a giant rubber dildo.Tied Up/Tidy Up, performed by Sam Foster – co-founder of the Gold Coast’s Shock Therapy Productions – was just one piece in Hotelling, an arts event held last weekend at the QT Gold Coast. Art in a hotel? I’m sceptical. But Foster’s comedy vignette deliciously mixes the mundane and the naughty. At one point Dom gasps as his bottom is whipped; at another he hands out business cards and pauses apologetically to switch off calendar reminders on his iPhone.Hotelling is the brainchild of artist and curator David Pledger, funded by City of Gold Coast and produced by Bleached Arts and QT. For the main event, Down the Rabbit Hole, 160 visitors paid $50 to immerse themselves in a three-hour evening of soundscapes, performance art and digital wizardry.In the vein of the wildly popular Secret Cinema and the trend for immersive, site-specific theatre, spectators become participants. Lacking cool warehouses or historic buildings, Pledger has turned to the myriad high-rise hotels of Surfers Paradise.“It’s often seen as a negative,” says Pledger, “But these hotels are like the Melbourne laneways were 25 years ago. The potential in them is massive.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘These hotels are like the Melbourne laneways were 25 years ago,’ says artist and curator David Pledger. ‘The potential in them is massive.’To Pledger each hotel is a playground or “mini city”. Life inside the revolving doors is a life exaggerated: sex, grief, transition are all amplified. In Hotelling the canvas is the hotel itself. The pool, the tennis court and even a giant bathtub (replete with froth and a bloody scene using lashings of ketchup) become a stage.Our evening begins on the dizzying 22nd floor with glitzy Eurovision-style host Slavka (Nadia Sunde), who eases the audience up with instructions to get “loosey goosey”. After booze and a group hip wiggle dance (part of Hotelling’s charm is that it not afraid to be silly), we are whisked across the hotel.Holding together the disparate works is the search for a lost bunny. Everyone is looking for “Monty”. There’s a girl in white knee-high boots and a 60s minidress peering under hotel doors; a grown woman in pink rabbit pyjamas and fluffy rabbit-shaped slippers forlornly asking hotel guests to find her pet; and, appearing like a mirage down the corridor, a surreal figure in a rabbit mask and slick white suit.“Why aren’t we putting art in these incredible landscapes?” asks Louise Bezzina, director of Gold Coast arts and culture event Bleach festival. Bezzina, like Pledger, does not see commerciality in a hotel; she sees theatrical possibilities.“It’s a real milestone for the Gold Coast – a city that is so fun, sexual, touristy, exciting,” adds Bezzina. “Much of the program at Bleach is about being accessible, bringing [art] to the place of holiday.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   How will the average hotel guest react to a giant, creepy bunny prowling their corridor?The elephant in the room remains: how do you make Hotelling authentic, rather than simply a branding exercise or PR stunt? How do you avoid buying into just another aspect of the in vogue, but often empty, fad of the “art mall” or “art hotel”?“It’s a challenge,” admits Bezzina. Pledger, for one, does not believe that the corporate nature of the space “is any different from a theatre or arts centre. In some ways you’re less compromised, because the arts are basically governed by boards that are risk-averse and extremely conservative and are only ever about income streams.” Part of the fun – and tension – in Hotelling comes from pouncing on the unsuspecting general public. How will the average hotel guest react to a giant, creepy bunny prowling their corridor? Playing on ideas of truth and representation, one performance piece features an affected pink-haired surveillance artist (Hayden Jones) as a peeping Tom, who asks the audience to join him in spying on a tower block across the way.Acclaimed burlesque artist Moira Finucane, too, raises the bar. On the tennis court as the Queen of Hearts (first performed in a London club in 2003), Fiuncane pops red balloons in red lingerie – the bra and crotch decked in a cluster of sharp spikes – her red-raw makeup smudged, stamping her red heels.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘She reminds me of a gorgeous, grotesque Roald Dahl character’: burlesque artist Moira Finucane in Dark and Gothic.In the grand finale, Dark and Gothic, she turns the Penthouse into a fairytale world of betrayed lovers. Sporting grossly elongated fingers – so pointed they are like 10 knives – and a backless ballgown, she reminds me of a gorgeous, grotesque Roald Dahl character.Pledger eventually has plans to “insert art into a hundred hotels” on the Gold Coast. This is just the beginning. And standing in room 306, I hope there is more. For all the fun of the performances, this one – the simplest – affects me the most.In The Crying Man, a businessman (the heartbreaking Todd MacDonald) orders room service. It’s his son’s fifth birthday and he wants to toast him. As we watch him on the phone to his wife, though, cracks in his marriage begin to surface. He travels too much, his relationship is stagnant, he worries she is having an affair. He is just a man, in a hotel, far away from his family, popping champagne and crying into the bubbles. • The Guardian was a guest of Bleached Arts and QT Gold Coast