Matthew Arnold once called them “the barren, optimistic sophistries”: the bright new beliefs that were going to improve the world. You can tell from his bleak tone that he didn’t think they would.Quite a lot of them did, however, and Arnold himself benefited from the belief, then new, that travel by rail would broaden the mind even of someone with a classical education. For all we know, some of the most resonant phrases in his wonderful poem Dover Beach came into his mind at Crewe Junction. Sophocles makes an appearance, but has nothing particularly classical to say. Possibly a station master’s announcement drowned him out.It’s a mercy, because when Arnold was making a point of sounding classical, he could come up with a line like, “Who prop, thou ask’st, on these bad days, my mind?” Try saying it, but don’t be misled: usually he sounded smooth at the very least.At the moment, I have put aside Shakespeare for a bit, so I can restore, in what time might be left to me, my belief that other people can write, too. Arnold was a great poet only in short stretches, but surely they should be taken into account when you try to assess why his prose was so good.Back in Sydney, when I was starting off, I had a little volume of his essays that included his first articles about Tolstoy. In Arnold’s time, Tolstoy’s major novels had not yet been translated into English, so he read them in French and wrote the kind of critical articles that make you mad keen to check up on what the critic is so mad keen on. A few years later, in Cambridge, I read FR Leavis’s book about Tolstoy and was surprised to find him peddling the impression that it was he, Leavis, who was taking Tolstoy seriously for the very first time. Leavis was apt to go nuts in that respect: if there was an author that he himself had not yet praised, he would attack any critic who had, or anyway he would ignore them. The best explanation for such berserk possessiveness is probably that the best artists are a bit like children and the best critics are a bit like artists.Clive James: ‘I regret not calling my book Nail-Biting Slug-Fest On The Last Green’ But really, the whole area of who praised whom is a bubbling quagmire. Tolstoy was convinced that Shakespeare wasn’t much good, and even the super-cool Arnold, when fired up by the certitude of his own opinions, could flip his lid. At one point he downrated Chaucer for not evincing enough “high truth” and “high seriousness”. Chaucer, had he been present when Arnold wrote down this brainwave, might have pointed out that when composing the key scene in The Miller’s Tale, he had found it more useful to concentrate on the high obscenity.