Taylor Swift is not the type to take an insult lying downAccepting her award for album of the year – the first woman to win the award twice, as she pointed out – Swift seemed to allude to her skirmish with Kanye West earlier in the week. In his new song Famous, he raps: “I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex / Why? I made that bitch famous.” Concluding the night’s very long ceremony, Swift said: “I want to say to all the young women out there – there are going to be people along the way who are going to try to undercut your success or take credit for your accomplishments or your fame.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s a good idea to play songs that rise above 90bpm occasionallyWhen an awards show is the best part of four hours long, like the Grammys telecast (and it’s even longer if you’re at the event itself), the audience might need pepping up occasionally. This is not best achieved by a torpid selection of ballads. On and on they came: the Weeknd, Little Big Town, Andra Day and Ellie Goulding, Sam Hunt and Carrie Underwood, all attempting a bedroom atmosphere but evoking a snooze rather than a night of passion. David Bowie’s legacy may not be best served by a hectic megamixLady Gaga’s tribute to David Bowie, with musical direction by Nile Rodgers, who worked with him on Let’s Dance, was anticipated with both pleasure and dread from Bowie fans. With costume changes and a beginning that saw Bowie’s makeup projected on her close-up face as Gaga sang Space Oddity, it didn’t lack spectacle, but the problem was the music; with at least a dozen of his greatest songs whizzing past in three minutes, it was like listening to a compilation album on fast forward. Gaga was also trying way too hard – unlike Bowie himself, it was the opposite of cool.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Even Adele can have an off nightHaving sold even more records than there are Grammy categories, Adele had the respect of the entire room and everyone expected her to slay. Unfortunately she had to cope with a succession of technical difficulties; first her mic went off for a second or two and then it sounded as though someone was playing an out of tune guitar; in fact, she subsequently tweeted, a microphone had fallen onto the piano strings and made everything sound out of tune. The result was rather awful and made her sound like she was performing at the bottom of a well – but no one will hold it against her.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Adele suffers technical difficulties at the Grammys Meghan Trainor is the emotional typeNo matter what you make of Trainor’s brand of empowering bubblegum pop, you’d have to be made of steel for not falling for her extremely emotional speech in accepting her first Grammy for best new artist. The All About That Bass singer/songwriter convulsed into floods of tears as soon as her name was announced; it’s a miracle she even made it to the stage. Once up there, her crying didn’t subside – if anything, it only intensified as she thanked legendary record executive LA Reid for “looking at me as an artist instead of just a songwriter” and her parents, causing her peers in the audience to break down in unison. Backstage, over an hour after her win, she said: “I still can’t breathe – I’ve been crying ever since I got off that stage. I’ve always wanted to be a face of music, so to be the best new artist means more than anything in the world.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Kendrick Lamar is a force to be reckoned withThe pride of Compton, whose How Much a Dollar Cost was Obama’s favourite song of last year, put on a glorious and thought-provoking performance that totally saved the night and drew a line between the oppression of African Americans in the prison-industrial complex and the struggles of Indigenous peoples. It also included a reference to the death of Trayvon Martin. Political, artful and alive, it seemed even more vital in such a stiffly mainstream context.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lionel Richie has deeply ambiguous facial expressions Given that the other two subjects of Grammys tributes are sadly no longer with us, Lionel Richie must have been feeling for his pulse during the section in which a bunch of younger performers launched into a medley (yes, another one) of his hits. Luke Bryan’s Penny Lover was pure cheese, but Richie seemed to be more appreciative – or was it horrified – by Demi Lovato’s melismatic take on Hello. It was no surprise that Richie eventually seized the microphone for a spot of Dancing on the Ceiling. Shady Music Facts (@musicnews_shade)Lionel Richie's reaction when Demi Lovato was singing her tribute to him! Legend approved. pic.twitter.com/AM7v1fjgtIFebruary 16, 2016Rihanna’s return to pop music continues to be troubledAfter the messy release of and ambiguous response to Anti, Rihanna was hit by more bad luck when she had to cancel her performance at the last minute. She had even made it to the venue, but was warned by doctors that she risked injuring her vocal cords if she sang. So she went home.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Johnny Depp still wants to be a rock starHaving played with the Pogues and Oasis back in the 90s, Depp took to the stage with his band the Hollywood Vampires, whose other members are Alice Cooper and Joe Perry from Aerosmith. Abetted by Duff McKagan and Matt Sorum of Guns N’ Roses and introduced to Dave Grohl, they tour through an invigorating tribute to Lemmy, performing As Bad as I Am and Ace of Spades. As Depp’s sidewhiskers almost formed a breakaway side project, some noted that it was the actor’s most convincing performance for years.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Chris Stapleton is a rising star Four months ago few had heard of him, but after a star-making performance with Justin Timberlake at the CMA awards in November, Chris Stapleton is now a hot property. The Nashville songwriter with a 10-year track record is now one of the most talked-about musicians in America, and his performance with Bonnie Raitt and Gary Clark Jr was effortlessly confident and cool.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 