A recurrent joke throughout Paul Daniels’ career was that he was a magician who sometimes left the audience wishing that he would make himself disappear. But this gag related more to his performing personality – cussed, bumptious, intolerant – and his robustly expressed political opinions than to his act.Paul Daniels, TV magician, dies aged 77  First inspired by a book of “think-of-a-number” tricks he read at the age of 11, Daniels built up a scholarly knowledge of great showmen and legendary illusions from the past. Although he spent much time designing bespoke moments for his act, his favourite stunt in later years – making a coin vanish beneath a piece of paper – originated in Italy 100 years before.Whereas Tommy Cooper, on ITV, built his magic act around tricks going comically wrong, Daniels, in The Paul Daniels Magic Show on BBC1 between 1979 and 1994, was inventive and ambitious, aiming to make viewers gasp and wonder how it had possibly been done. But though he took his craft very seriously, he made no greater claims for it than light entertainment. Sections of his shows, on both stage and screen, were devoted to exposing those who tried to pretend their illusions were paranormal or supernatural. Having had a real job, as a grocer, Daniels gradually turned a sideline in magic tricks that he developed during national service into his main career. His showbiz success came through the then-familiar route of northern working men’s clubs, seaside pier shows and the TV talent show Opportunity Knocks.  Strikingly, his catchphrase “You’ll like this – not a lot, but you’ll like it!” coined in response to a heckler in a working man’s club, raised the idea of the audience being against him, as did the title of one of his final UK tours: “Back – Not by Popular Demand!”Paul Daniels obituary These pre-emptive strikes were not audience-warming self-deprecation of the sort that Ronnie Corbett would employ when apologising for a rambling story. Daniels’ showbiz persona seemed unusually unconcerned about whether people liked him or not. Born in Middlesbrough, he had the take-me-or-leave-me manner common to many Yorkshiremen. Where other telly men were tetchy about the provenance of their locks, Daniels was open about using toupees until, eventually, he went boldly bald. Some of the detraction came from his holding of the ideological trifecta most calculated to inflame liberals – believing deeply in the death penalty and Margaret Thatcher but opposing global warming. To his credit, though, this often defiantly cold TV personality retained his personal integrity and reputation to the end, in stark contrast to broadcasting contemporaries who promoted warmer personalities or noisier philanthropic profiles, such as Jimmy Savile, Stuart Hall and Rolf Harris.  Though Daniels claimed in his memoirs to have had liaisons with 300 women, the closest he came to personal scandal was a second marriage to a stage assistant half his age, Debbie McGee. A joke made about him on TV became more celebrated than any he had told himself, when Caroline Aherne, in character as Mrs Merton, asked McGee, “What first attracted you to the millionaire Paul Daniels?” Magician Paul Daniels – a life in pictures  His intermittent over-sharing of details about his sex life with McGee may have been his response to the durability of that gag and, if so, was characteristically combative. Aherne’s joke depended on him having more money than most people, so now he would confirm that he was getting more of the other main human desire. Although TV gave him most of his fame and fortune, Daniels was always irritated by the assumption of viewers and reviewers that his on-screen tricks must involve technological sleight-of-hand. In later series, he would try to design tricks that could not have benefitted from camera angles or post-production, and part of the enjoyment for him of appearing on stage was that sleight-of-hand performed live (especially with scrutineers invited from the audience) was less subject to the suspicions invited by a recorded broadcast. When his main TV magic show ended – partly due to the rise of more provocative illusionists such as David Blaine and Derren Brown – Daniels maintained his television profile with gameshows and the almost obligatory appearance on Strictly Come Dancing. His lifelong devotion to magic, though, continued and a final stage tour was stalled by the diagnosis of the brain tumour that led to his death. He will be remembered as an accomplished trickster who, unlike many television figures of his Saturday-night TV generation, was not hiding anything from the public.