Classical ballet is notoriously an art form that imposes exacting standards of perfection on its dancers. But while it is the women who are presented as the principal victims of those standards – with some battling dangerously to maintain a low weight and lean physique – there are plenty of men for whom body image is problematic.Chase Johnsey was a natural-born dance prodigy. A child champion in American clogging, he took his first ballet class at the age of 14 and displayed a startling aptitude. Yet, as Johnsey himself has acknowledged, he was an unusually short, skinny and effeminate teenager, very far from the “heroic” physique required for classical men; his teachers had to warn him that he stood little chance of a career in ballet. Johnsey, however, was undaunted – and identified the one company that could offer him a home.Over the decades, the all-male troupe Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo has showcased every kind of maverick dancer in its witty, loving pastiches of the classical repertory. When Johnsey was hired by the Trocks in 2004, his talent found the perfect platform. Performing Prince roles under the stage name Roland Deaulin, he proved a hilariously virtuoso foil to the company’s biggest, beefiest “ballerinas”; cast as a ballerina himself (AKA Yakaterina Verbosovich), he utilised all of his natural speed and grace, along with his fabulously articulate pointe work, in tutu roles such as Kitri and Odette.When the Trocks toured the UK last year, it was Johnsey’s performances that dominated their reviews, particularly the splendour of his dancing in Paquita. Fittingly, his gifts have been acknowledged at the National Dance awards, where he has won the headline award, best male dancer. In doing so, he faced off competition from the likes of Vadim Muntagirov and Alexander Campbell, both principal dancers at the Royal. Johnsey’s win is not only a celebration of his talent, but also a celebration of the fact that ballet, however rigorous its traditions, has an inalienable genius for the wayward, the comic and the camp.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Francesca Hayward (Lise) in La Fille Mal Gardée at the Royal Opera House in 2016. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThe rest of the awards held fewer surprises. Admittedly, it was only two years ago that Francesca Hayward was named winner in the emerging artist category, but as a recently promoted principal at the Royal has danced through such an astonishing season that few would quibble with her winning the award for best female dancer. Hayward’s intuitive musicality, her dramatic intelligence and her finesse have been demonstrated across the repertory, from the hyper-kinetic intensity of Wayne McGregor’s ballets to the radiant funny tenderness of Lise in Frederick Ashton’s La Fille Mal Gardée.Another fast-track talent, English National Ballet’s Cesar Corrales, was rewarded this year. Nominated in the emerging artist category a year ago, this time around he has won the award for outstanding male performance (classical). Corrales was chosen for the role of Ali in Le Corsaire, in which he conducted himself like a far more experienced artist, throwing off a firecracker display of jumps and turns with blithe musical ease, inhabiting the exotic hokum of the story line with a natural flair.While it is thrilling to watch dancers such as Corrales and Hayward during the early years of their careers, it was good to see how many older artists were recognised at the 2016 awards. Zenaida Yanowsky, who announced recently that she will retire from the Royal at the end of this season, received the award for outstanding female performance for her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth I in Will Tuckett’s Elizabeth. Yanowsky was at her most compelling as a dance actress here, revelling in the extravagant, grandly coquettish body language of the young queen, becoming vulnerable and turbulent in her love affairs and turning more brittle and fragile with age.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Taut and ambitious ... Northern Ballet’s 1984.Another mature artist to be justly served was Jonathon Young, for his performance in Crystal Pite’s Betroffenheit. Young is principally an actor, director and writer, but he can match the visceral expressiveness of any dancer and he pushed himself to harrowingly physical extremes in this searing portrayal of trauma, madness and grief. As the choreographer of Betroffenheit, Pite was a strong contender for the award for best modern choreography, but she had a worthy rival in Kim Brandstrup. His setting of Transfigured Night, Schoenberg’s hauntingly beautiful titular score, ranks as one of the finest in his long career: superbly constructed, inventively musical, beautiful and profoundly humane in its portrayal of trepidation, tenderness and forgiveness.If there was a trend to be spotted at this year’s awards, it was how many winners were attached to works with a narrative or a strongly expressive base. The award for best classical choreography was won by 1984, the taut, ambitious adaptation of Orwell’s classic that Jonathan Watkins created for Northern Ballet. Gary Clarke took the outstanding independent company award for Coal, an exemplary piece of political dance theatre that looked back at the miners’ strikes of the 1980s and their impact on local communities. English National Ballet’s receipt of the outstanding company award (which it also won in 2014) rested partly on its pioneering programme of all-female choreography, within which Annabelle Lopez Ochoa’s Broken Wings, a portrait of the artist Frida Kahlo, was nominated for the category of best classical choreography. Finally, the award for outstanding female performance (modern) went to Ching-Ying Chien, for her hypnotisingly fluid dancing in Until the Lions, Akram Khan’s masterfully theatrical distillation of the Mahabharata.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ching-Ying Chien in Until the Lions at the Roundhouse in London. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianPlotless dance has a powerful and necessary place in the art form. Pure movement can possess a magical ability to conjure states of emotion, to transform our perceptions of time, space and music. Yet, the impulse to tell stories through dance is as old as the art form itself. Perhaps this narrative trend will become more evident as dance starts to respond to these darkly unpredictable times and starts to dig for the stories that count.The awards were given for dance events that were shown in the UK between 1 September 2015 and 31 August 2016. The full list of winners is: Best male dancer: Chase JohnseyBest female dancer: Francesca HaywardOutstanding company: English National BalletBest independent company: Gary ClarkeBest classical choreography: Jonathan Watkins for 1984 Best modern choreography: Kim Brandstrup for Transfigured Night Emerging artist award: Reece ClarkeOutstanding male performance (classical): Cesar Corrales in Le Corsaire Outstanding female performance (classical): Zenaida Yanowsky in ElizabethOutstanding male performance (modern): Jonathon Young in Betroffenheit Outstanding female performance (modern): Ching-Ying Chien in Until the LionsJane Attenborough dance industry award: Brenda LastDe Valois award for outstanding achievement: Beryl Grey 