I’m standing in the weaving shed at Queen Street Mill in Burnley, looking out over 300 looms. It’s a cold winter’s day, the light falling pale and flat through the glass ceiling, a faint skitter of rain against the panes. And though the looms sit in steady silence this morning, I’m trying to imagine the furious noise that once filled this room.The mill, which is still operational, is today a museum. I’m being guided by Colin Stevens who, like his father and grandfather before him, worked at the looms for many years. It was the noise, he says, that hit him that first week – the sound of metal, wood and steam, of machinery rattling at full pelt. It would still be reverberating through his body long after he had left the weaving shed – so forcefully, in fact, that he couldn’t sleep at night.I’m here to record Notes from a Musical Island, a new four-part series for Radio 4 in which I explore the connections between music and landscape. The series has taken me from the banks of the river Wear in Sunderland to the back room of a family home in Handsworth, Birmingham; from recording studios in London to school halls in Haydock. On the way, I’ve spoken to pipers, colliery bands and choirs, musicians Nico Muhly, Jaki Graham, Chas & Dave and Peter Brewis, in an attempt to draw a musical portrait of this small island.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Furious noise … a Lancashire cotton mill’s weaving shed. Photo: Edward Gooch/Getty Images The sounds of the landscape – from birdcalls to rain to roads and machinery – must influence the music we want to hear I’ve often written about the relationship between music and landscape, and have long been intrigued by songs inspired by roads and rivers, by the harmonies that unite fishermen’s choirs and the Beach Boys, by the new musical rhythms that arrived with the railways, by field songs, weaving songs, shanties, ballads and mining songs. I’ve always thought that the sounds of the landscape we inhabit – from the birdcalls we wake to, to the rain falling on a weaving shed roof, via the hum of a distant motorway or the thrust of machinery – must influence the music we make and want to hear, or even the music we want to rebel against.Then, a few years ago, I wrote a piece for the Guardian about a study of British regional musical tastes that analysed sales at HMVs around the country, as well as comparing regional charts and the music played at gigs and in clubs in each region. There was a marked difference, it revealed, between the speed of music favoured in different areas – in John O’Groats it was 190bpm, for instance, compared with just 90 in London. And the genres record buyers chose was distinguishable by region too: in the Midlands there was a surge in sales of heavy metal, Eurodisco on the south coast, country music in Scotland, psychedelia in Wales – and in Sheffield and Nottingham, a penchant for bassline house.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Northern soul … Laura Barton at Dunham Massey in Cheshire. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianLaura Barton on why Britain is a country divided by its taste in music I wondered then, and have wondered since, if there wasn’t some connection between the Scottish love for happy hardcore, with its frantic bpm, and the traditional Scottish reels, which ran at 120bpm or higher. And if so, I wondered what this speed might mimic – weaving, perhaps, or water, or the wind, or even the rising and falling Highland landscape.I began in the north-east of England, looking at how life beside the water might have bled into the music. This part of the country has a great tradition of seafaring songs – belted out by fishermen as they hauled and rowed and caroused, keeping time, strengthening camaraderie, ensuring they were united against the waves. But here were other songs, too: songs of the shipyards, sung by those who gut the fish and mend the nets, all keeping the time of their particular task.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Expressing the force of water … Kathryn Tickell. Photograph: Graham OliverI remember the Northumbrian piper Kathryn Tickell looking out over the swollen river that runs behind her house and talking about her song Hareshaw Burn, which tells of the burn and waterfall nearby, and of the force and uncontrollability of water, the sense that in living on the water you are in some way at risk.I recall Adrian McNally, musical director for the Unthanks, talking one dark and glowering evening of the strange, stark beauty of this landscape, its dourness, its threat, but its tenderness too, and how his role is often to define the relationship between the two – the sweetness of a lyric or a sentiment played against music that is sharp or severe.There is a similar feel to the region’s more emotional songs – those that pine for the sailor lost at sea or a girl back on land, that speak of a desire to be back on the waves or at home by the fire, as well as the punk songs that yearned for a better way of life.What struck me was that so many of the songs from this region seem to carry a kind of longing. That they spoke of a life not quite certain, never definitely in one place, not safe or secure. They told of being at risk from the elements, the cruelty of the sea, the threat of unemployment; of lives, loves, landscapes exposed.Across the Pennines, with a brief stop to speak to sound recordist Rob St John, standing by the Bridestones that look east to Yorkshire and west to Lancashire, the mood and the rhythms seemed to shift.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I spoke to the musician and composer Chaines about her score for Ghost of Industries Past, Mary Stark’s film about the textile industry. The music is a compelling combination of hard mechanical “masculine” sounds with soft breath and women’s voices. And to Tony Sabanskis of Bolton dance act the Blackout Crew, stars of the north-west donk scene, to work out if there might be any connection between the region’s long-standing taste for dance music and the relentless rhythms of its industry.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Psychedelic Powys … the Green Man festival in Wales. Photograph: Rex FeaturesBack in the weaving shed, Colin is telling me about how fast the looms once ran: 180 picks per minute, he says, the wooden shuttle thrown from one side of the loom to the other, laying a single strand of the weft. For every inch of fabric, he says, there would be 30 picks. There were once almost a thousand looms here, he adds, all powered by a single steam engine that, at its peak, demanded six tonnes of coal a day.I stand in the silence and try to do the whole noisy maths of it. Amid the quiet, Colin turns on a single loom and we listen: a squeal and clatter, then a rattle and roar, a gathering and gathering and gathering, until the room is filled with a sound that runs right down to the marrow of you. Colin smiles and watches, finds its rhythm and begins to sway.Laura Barton’s Notes from a Musical Island is on Radio 4 from 5 March at 10.30am.