How to Lose Weight Well8pm, Channel 4A dose of catnip for January slimmers as Dr Xand van Tulleken, cafe cook Stacie Stewart and dietician Hala El-Shafie help six people test out fad diets. Lovers of “bad food” Katie and Rachael are embarking on a crash diet to lose weight in 10 days, so test a maple syrup cleanse and a fruit and veg-only menu. For a slower approach to weight loss, Fei tries the 5:2, while Betty has a time-restricted plan. Van Tulleken is game enough to join in and tries out weight loss pills and gastric band hypnotherapy. Hannah VerdierBenidorm9pm, ITVThe comedy-drama returns. As the eighth series begins, change is very much in the wind at the Solana. Les (Tim Healy) is on duty without his customary makeup and chestnut bob, while Jacqueline is saying goodbye to Donald by scattering his ashes over the bay with the help of a wind machine and the lads from the Blow & Go. New guest cast members materialise in the shape of the Dawsons (featuring Julie Graham as mum Sheron, pictured) while sex-comedy mainstay Robin Askwith debuts as aspirant barman/lothario Marcus. John RobinsonGotham: Rise of the Villains10pm, Channel 5The gritty-looking but stealthily bonkers Batman prequel recommences. With young Bruce Wayne still knee-high to a Bieber, there’s no chance of the Dark Knight arriving any time soon, so Gotham has doubled down on bad guys, branding its second season Rise Of The Villains. With the Penguin newly installed as the city’s kingpin and lone good cop Jim Gordon on traffic duty, the deck looks stacked even before the arrival of Zaardon, a tubby guy in body armour ranting about dragons’ blood and soul-reaping. Graeme VirtueCrashing10pm, Channel 4Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s monologue Fleabag, told by a free-wheeling, porn-obsessed woman, marked her out as one to watch when it debuted in 2013. Crashing is her first TV script: a flatshare sitcom with a fresh lick of grimy despair. Set in an old hospital, it follows a gaggle of property guardians as they navigate lives made more testing by their dilapidated discount digs – and, perhaps, the fact that many of them are the sort of flamboyantly affected sociopaths comedy commissioners can’t seem to get enough of these days. Rachel AroestiInside Amy Schumer11pm, Comedy CentralAs the third series of her satirical sketch show kicks off, the US comic parodies the rap world’s love affair with big booties via a playground rhyme, and takes aim at rape culture with a spoof of American football drama Friday Night Lights. Tina Fey, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Patricia Arquette also join her for a dig at ageism in the biz, and there’s an intriguing interview with trans woman Bailey Jay. Tempering some of the crudest humour around with feminist smarts, the result is both hilarious and highly relevant. Hannah J DaviesSiblings10.30pm, BBC3Series two continues, with Dan (Tom Stourton) given an enlightening vision of a future without the rule of his maniacal mother, thanks to a visit from his feckless Aunt Leslie (the excellent Sally Phillips), who teaches him that he can get anything he wants from society without giving anything in return. Meanwhile, after the delivery of six unordered pizzas, Hannah (Charlotte Ritchie) believes that she’s entered a “golden week”, a rarified era when lucky breaks will continue to flow liberally. Ben ArnoldTracey Ullman’s Show10.45pm, BBC1Ullman’s enduring status is evident in her comeback show, with Samantha Spiro, Tony Gardner and Rupert Grint turning out as foils. The credits confirm the former 80s star of Three of a Kind also has the best writing and production team available. But this is not so much hit-and-miss as not-aiming-at-anything-concrete in the first place. Recurring characters, mimicry and light satire all refuse to ignite in a show that doesn’t look as if its creator desperately needed to create it. Jack SealeFilm choiceFast Girls (Regan Hall, 2012) 7.05pm, Film4The main problem for this female relay version of Bend It Like Beckham is the characters, who verge on stereotypical: Shania, the black kid from the sink estate (Lenora Crichlow) struggling to be a team member; Lisa (Lily James), the white middle-class girl with the dictatorial dad. But there’s a bright young cast, with Noel Clarke as coach Tommy, and it sprints home in a feelgood flurry. Paul HowlettAppaloosa (Ed Harris, 2008) 9pm, Sky AtlanticThis fine, thoughtful western reunites the stars of A History Of Violence, Ed Harris and Viggo Mortensen, as Cole and Hitch, a Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday-like pair hired to bring peace to the lawless New Mexico town of Appaloosa. There are violent confrontations with ruthless rancher Jeremy Irons and his henchmen, while Cole falls for Renée Zellweger’s widow Allison. PHToday’s best live sportBig Bash Cricket: Sydney Thunder v Melbourne Renegades T20 action from the Spotless Stadium in Sydney. 8.30am, Sky Sports 2Snooker: The Masters Judd Trump takes on Stephen Maguire at Ally Pally. 1pm, BBC2Premier League U-21s Football: Tottenham Hotspur v Chelsea A youthful London derby. 7pm, Sky Sports 1National Badminton League: Team Derby v Birmingham Lions The defending champions are in action at the Derby Arena. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 2