The last time Alan Cumming was at the Edinburgh international festival, back in 2007, he ended up baring his bum for hundreds of people a night. All in the name of high art, naturally. Cumming played Dionysus, the god of booze and misrule, in John Tiffany’s rip-roaring production of Euripides’s The Bacchae. There was also a gold kilt, he recalls with a laugh: “Very fetching.”Alan Cumming Sings Sappy Songs! at Edinburgh festival review – heart, soul and a bit of cheek Cumming’s reappearance this August will be more low-key, but exposure is still involved – albeit of the emotional kind. Having taken New York and numerous other cities by storm with his one-man cabaret, the actor is preparing to bring the act to a specially adapted venue in Edinburgh. Called Alan Cumming Sings Sappy Songs, the show has been described by the normally unflappable New York Times as “ravenous” and “sexual”.The actor is quick to point out that while Sappy Songs contains its share of sauce – though there is no nudity, audiences should prepare for an extended riff on a tattoo in an intimate region – it is by no means un-serious. The tone is openly confessional, sometimes bruisingly so: brassy showtunes and lovelorn ballads mingled with tales from Cumming’s sometimes troubled life, detailed with raw honesty in his 2014 autobiography, Not My Father’s Son. “The songs come from all over the place, but they’re all about me, or things that have happened to me. It’s a true cabaret, I guess – funny, but also intense.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Alan Cumming singsThe show began life two years ago, during Cumming’s return to Broadway in Kander and Ebb’s musical Cabaret. The actor began to invite pals and hangers-on to join him in his dressing room after the curtain fell: part wind-down, part boutique club night. Zach Braff swung by, as did Monica Lewinsky and Vanessa Hudgens. It acquired a pink neon sign reading “Club Cumming” then – perhaps not unconnected to its wildfire success on the actor’s Instagram feed – a drinks sponsor. Vegan soup was served out of paper cups, with Cumming doing double duty as host and resident DJ, pumping out tunes from his laptop. “People would ask, ‘Who’s that playing?’ And I would say, ‘I’m not going to tell you. Just listen.’”Some tracks in the Sappy songlist might be blue-blooded Broadway classics by Liza Minnelli or Elaine Stritch; a number from Weill and Brecht’s The Threepenny Opera; or Stephen Sondheim’s The Ladies Who Lunch, done by Cumming with a Scottish lilt that will surely seem even more sardonic in well-to-do Edinburgh. But others have raised eyebrows, even among devotees. The actor offers a disconcertingly sincere account of Complicated by sometime mascara-heavy teen star Avril Lavigne, and there’s also Miley Cyrus’s 2009 saccharine torch song The Climb, a hit in that long-lost era when Cyrus was still Hannah Montana.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Very fetching’ … Alan Cumming as the gold-kilted Dionysus in The Bacchae in Edinburgh in 2007. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the Guardian“When I start with the Miley Cyrus, there’s this embarrassed giggle,” he says. “People think, ‘God, he’s not really going to sing that, is he?’ Or they think I’m going to take the piss out of it. But when I do it seriously, this wonderful change comes over the audience. People leave their preconceptions behind.” He hints there might be the odd afterparty in Edinburgh, too.Just getting hold of him to talk through all this has been a challenge. Even though The Good Wife is now done and dusted, there hasn’t been much let-up in the Cumming schedule. When we speak he’s back in New York for a few days in the middle of filming Battle of the Sexes, a biopic of tennis legend Billie Jean King, before segueing straight into After Louie, a Kickstarter-funded film about Aids . He’s about to publish a new book, if anything even more confessional than his last, entitled You Gotta Get Bigger Dreams. Then there’s the little matter of creating a new show for the Metropolitan Museum in New York, which has asked him to do a residency in honour of its autumn retrospective on the Weimar artist Max Beckmann. How is he approaching it? “I’m calling it Max and Alan,” he declares. “I’ll make something up.” You get the sense that, amid the partying and the hectic work schedule, Cumming finds it grounding to stand with a microphone on stage, with only pianist-arranger Lance Horne, cellist Eleanor Norton and drummer Chris Jego for company. “Oh, I love it,” he responds. “Every so often, the four of us find ourselves in some weird city somewhere in the world, with a room of strangers, and we do this show. It’s a lovely little cocoon.”Alan Cumming Sings Sappy Songs is at the Edinburgh international festival, 6–27 August