Not that long ago, Donald Trump was gifted with all the publicity and cachet that comes from a hosting slot on Saturday Night Live. “I know how to take a joke,” he told the show’s audience; he certainly knew how to take the ones SNL put his way. More recently, exiled Brit John Oliver made a few waves with his tirade against Trump on his HBO show Last Week Tonight, although those headlines claiming Oliver had “destroyed” and “annihilated” him looked then, and even more so now, like wishful thinking.His was a more effective take-down, mind you, than Sarah Silverman’s recent contribution, guesting on Conan O’Brien’s show in disguise as Adolf Hitler, pretending to be miffed at constantly being invoked in conversations about Trump. A neat idea, which developed in performance not a jot.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Donald Trump’s monologue on Saturday Night LiveMeanwhile, Louis CK mailed out an essay to his fans urging Americans to “please stop it with voting for Trump”. His missive continued: “It was funny for a little while. But the guy is Hitler. And [...] we are being Germany in the 30s. Do you think they saw the shit coming? Hitler was just some hilarious and refreshing dude with a weird comb-over who would say anything at all.” And then, focusing directly on Republican voters: “If you are a true conservative, don’t vote for Trump. He is not one of you. He is one of him. Everything you have heard him say that you liked, if you look hard enough you will see that he one day said the exact opposite. He is playing you.” Standups should have absolutely nothing to do with any political partyAlexei Sayle The stridency of these anti-Trump broadsides shows (among other things) how readily comedians will adopt an oppositional stance. If you don’t believe me, see how CK bends over backwards in his essay to argue that his hostility to Trump implies no enthusiasm for any other candidate. “I’m not advocating for Hillary or Bernie. I like them both but frankly I wish the next president was a conservative only because we had Obama for eight years and we need balance.” Really, Louis? Is that really what you think? According to  Alexei Sayle, standups “should have absolutely nothing to do with any political party”. Certainly, pinning their political colours to a mast is tricky territory for comedians. Just ask Jeremy Hardy, who was arraigned for a supposedly off-colour gag at a pro-Jeremy Corbyn gig. The joke was about Trident, and alluded to ex-Labour defence spokesman Kevan Jones’s mental health issues. “I would have thought you could hazard a guess,” ran the gag, “that if someone supports nuclear weapons, if your view of existence is so bleak you’re prepared to help with the extermination of the entire northern hemisphere, that kind of suggests depression, don’t you?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Speak truth to power’ … Alexei Sayle. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianCue outrage, which culminated – after a period of silence – with Corbyn himself implying (extremely mild) disapproval of the joke. (“I can only hope that the audience at the event was not impressed by that contribution, and that there is no repetition of it.”) Leaving aside our opinions on the validity of Hardy’s quip (to me, it’s mocking enthusiasm for Trident and not really targeting Jones’s mental health), this episode suggests the potential pitfalls of comedians jumping on political bandwagons. Suddenly, there are considerations over and above being funny – and your loyalties lie elsewhere than the joke. There are party lines to toe, or not to toe. Audiences (horror of horrors!) think you’re telling them “what to think”. One day, you get branded a “celebrity supporter” in the press, your words exploited to damn the causes you champion; the next, you get your knuckles rapped by the politicians you’re trying to support.And yet, the real reason to avoid overt political loyalties, according to Sayle, is that (tongue only slightly in cheek) “we have a sacred duty to speak truth to power” – as did the jesters and holy fools of yore. I agree; I usually agree with Alexei Sayle. But I don’t think that “sacred duty” requires comics only ever to oppose, and never publicly to support. Sometimes, the best way to make power listen is to join movements that are themselves loudly promoting the truth. There are plenty of fine comics joining Hardy on the JC4PM tour (Sara Pascoe, Shappi Khorsandi, Dane Baptiste) and I don’t think their artistic or political independence is compromised. As long as, when the time comes that supporting Corbyn and speaking truth to power are no longer compatible, they choose the latter option – assuming, of course, that as with Hardy, their sense of humour hasn’t seen them publicly cast adrift first.Three to seeJena FriedmanLondon outing for a highly promising, faux-cynical show I first encountered on last year’s fringe, in which the Daily Show producer and writer for David Letterman teases at faultlines in the liberal western worldview. • 22-26 March, Soho theatre, LondonMelbourne comedy festivalIt’s the 30th annual outing for the world’s second biggest comedy beanfeast, which debuted in 1987 with gigs by – among others – Peter Cook. This year’s bill features new work from Sam Simmons, Arj Barker, Sarah Millican and fast-rising Aussie stars like Zoe Coombs Marr and Naseem Hussain.• 23 March-17 April, various venues, Melbourne, AustraliaMark WatsonTwenty-four hours on a plane to Australia fretting over the implications of a damaged passport form the basis for angsty standup Watson’s new touring show, an inquiry into identity in the digital age. • 24 March, Citizens Glasgow; 25 March, Lemon Tree, Aberdeen; then touring