Below is this week’s playlist – the theme and tunes picked by a reader from the comments on last week’s callout. Thanks for your suggestions.  about the format of the weekly Readers Recommend series at the end of the piece.I was looking for extremely unusual or remarkable vocal performances, so where better to start than mizdarlin’s tip: the sensational Amy Winehouse, who here sings Valerie in a pared-down, slowed-down live performance that lets her really stretch, chant, and call in that chorus. An extraordinary contralto who made risky vocals a thing of beauty.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Youtube playlist.Click here if you prefer Spotify.Howlin’ Wolf said that Smokestack Lightnin’, up next, was inspired by the sparks that flew from a train’s smokestack, but you can also hear the moan of the train’s whistle, the grunt of the bellows, the thunder of the wheels – and even the gravel between the tracks in his unique voice.Aretha Franklin’s vocal musculature and agility are on grand display in Think. Elastic, effortless slides and pointed, impactful, one-note reprimands. I would think again, boy.The reader recommending Barenaked Ladies’ One Week suggested it was karaoke’s toughest challenge. Too true, philipphilip99. Ed Robertson’s fast-paced delivery is like scat or rap: every word is clearly enunciated and every phrase conjures up another funny pop-culture reference. My brain hurts.Baaba Maal’s tribute to Nelson Mandela, Njilou, begins with vocalisations that evoke traditional music from Senegal, but builds, assuredly and with the ecstatic cooperation of his audience, into a vision of a united Africa.   MisterIks 28 May 2016 8:41amCripes! *Leaps into action*Krister Linder - Turning Daisies@thoughtballoons - during this youtube interlude I found he'd released a new song called Singing Shadow which I hadn't heard before, and under his video for Nothing Ever there's a sweet comment from Kirsty Hawkshaw, who can sing a bit herself.Krister Linder’s ghost-like voice in Turning Daisies, certainly appropriate to that song’s gloomy theme, seems an unusually pure form of singing – basically just adding a musical note to the act of breathing. I can hear the air suck over his teeth. Deliciously creepy and deeply moving.“Jesus hits the high notes,” said Ravi Raman when recommending Ted Neeley’s unforgettable crisis in the garden of Gethsemane (I only want to say). Another building – or should we say, climbing – song that conveys sadness, struggle, anger, and resignation, and, oh yes, hits that G5.Mariza is a rich-voiced Portugese singer who revitalises fado – a style of dramatic singing designed to convey loss, longing, and in this song, Medo, fears and anxieties that can fill the night.Little Girl Blue is by far my favourite Janis Joplin song. The way her exquisitely controlled voice stays true to the aches and sorrows of the song, almost in defiance of the jaunty accompaniment, breaks my heart every time.I put Van Morrison next, because he said that the song Beside You was about offering someone spiritual companionship and support, and I thought he could be there for Janis. There may not be anyone who has found so many uses for his voice, and I particularly like the way he uses hesitations, stammers, sustains, and silences in this piece, to make us all travel in the same emotional direction.Samingad is a Taiwanese singer who experiments with electronica to bring the traditional folk songs of her Puyuma people to a wider audience. What’s remarkable in Myth is the impressive control as her voice glides over the background instruments, like a bird soaring over the forest.We’ll end with something magical and unexpected. A pop-singer soprano and pop-singer tenor, each with very divergent singing careers and styles, decide to get together for a go at the operatic roles of Mabel and Frederic in Gilbert and Sullivan’s The Pirates of Penzance. Linda Ronstadt brings the plaintiveness of folk singing, like pepper, and Rex Smith a softly stage-crafted vibrato, like salt, and suddenly Ah, Leave Me Not to Pine is a gourmet dish.New theme The theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on Thursday 2 June. You have until 11pm on Monday 6 June to make nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com or add it here via GuardianWitness.There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.