The elusive director Terrence Malick made a rare public appearance at the SXSW film festival in Austin, Texas, to discuss his new film Song to Song.Malick took part in a Q&A that also featured its star Michael Fassbender and was moderated by director Richard Linklater.Song to Song review – Terrence Malick returns to form with lyrical love triangle Song to Song, which stars Fassbender, Ryan Gosling, Rooney Mara and Natalie Portman, received its world premiere at the festival on Friday. Filmed largely in Malick’s hometown of Austin, it tells the story of two couples involved in the city’s music scene, and features a number of real-life musicians, including Florence Welch, Iggy Pop, Patti Smith and John Lydon. Reviews of the film have been mixed. The Guardian’s Jordan Hoffman described it as “a beautiful, melancholic rush of imagery, dizzying the senses at every turn”, but others have been less charitable. “[Song to Song is] merely the latest borderline-awful Malick movie that risks to undermine the genius and mystery of his best work,” wrote Variety’s Peter Debruge.In the Q&A, Malick shed some light on his semi-improvised filming process. “We keep rolling to keep it spontaneous,” he said, according to Variety.“You never know at the end of the day what you actually got,” Malick said. “The editing takes a longer time than usual. You have to ask the patience of the studio or the financier. Sometimes more than once.”Malick also revealed that the film almost became a TV series due to its initial long running time. “We had an eight-hour first cut,” he said. “We thought, ‘Is this a mini-series?’ It really could have been. It took a long time to cut it down to a manageable length.Is Terrence Malick ahead of his time or out of date? Malick is a notoriously elusive figure. He rarely gives interviews and is guarded about his personal life. After coming to prominence in the 1970s with two acclaimed films, Badlands and Days of Heaven, he disappeared from public view for over two decades, before finally returning to film in 1998 with his well-received war movie The Thin Red Line. Recent years, however, have marked an upturn in activity from the director. Song to Song is his fifth film in six years, with another, Radegund – a biopic of Austrian second world war conscious objector Franz Jägerstätter – currently in production. At the Q&A, Fassbender revealed the challenges of working for such an unconventional director. “I’ll be acting my socks off over there,” he said. “The next thing, I look over, and Terry is filming a beetle.”