When the first copies of Marshall McLuhan’s landmark treatise, The Medium is the Massage, rolled off the presses in 1967, the typo in the last word was pointed out to the author, who thought it so thematically appropriate he asked them to keep it. The title made his point that the form media takes is as important as the content, and changed the way we see ourselves in relation to a message-driven environment of our own creation.“All media are extensions of some human faculty – psychic or physical,” he wrote. “The wheel is an extension of the foot. The book is an extension of the eye. Clothing, an extension of the skin, electric circuitry, an extension of the central nervous system.” Where the daily news fits into that equation is the topic of a clever new exhibit at the Getty in Los Angeles, Breaking News: Turning the Lens on Mass Media.The digital age reshapes our notion of photography. Not everyone is happy ... “The show is about artists appropriating media as a way of dealing with images that they’re seeing; reworking those images that are published,” offers curator Arpad Kovacs about his show featuring photography and video from 17 artists in all, including John Baldessari, Robert Heinecken, Catherine Opie, Martha Rosler, Alfredo Jaar, Omer Fast, and the team of Adam Broomberg and Oliver Chanarin, who began recontextualizing images as a way of exploring motivations, conscious or not, implied by editorial decision making.It’s no coincidence the earliest works here date to the 60s, when McLuhan’s book was a bestseller and the Vietnam war was raging. It was the first televised conflict, with images of mayhem invading the cozy confines of suburbia. An anti-war protester at the time, Martha Rosler grew frustrated with the way such images were diminished when juxtaposed with trivial advertisements and inconsequential news items.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   First Lady (Pat Nixon). Photograph: Martha RoslerHer response was a series entitled House Beautiful: Bringing the War Home, including collages like First Lady (Pat Nixon), a portrait of the 37th President’s wife standing in a well-appointed parlor. Above the mantel behind her is a picture frame with a black and white photo of a dead Vietnamese inserted by Rosler.“During the 2000s she realized there were these atrocious images coming back from the Middle East and being broadcast on television and, to some extent, newspapers,” Kovacs says of the artist as she revisited the concept to comment on contemporary crises. “She made new work in the same vein, juxtaposing images culled from current media.” Adam Broomberg and Oliver Chanarin likewise revisited an earlier work – Bertolt Brecht’s 1955 piece War Primer – for their work, War Primer 2. Whereas the German writer used images of second world war atrocities, adding a short verse under each, Broomberg and Chanarin overlaid each page of his collection with imagery from the war on terror culled from internet searches. When the Associated Press demanded £100 ($122) in licensing fees for use of a widely circulated photo in one of Broomberg and Chanarin’s lectures, the artist duo found the underlying concept of their series made real.“How on Earth does a multinational media provider get hold of images made by US military operatives while in service, of images of torture, and then make money each time those images are reproduced? That’s the kind of mediation this War Primer work is about,” Chanarin told MoMa in 2013. While TV anchors like Walter Cronkite and David Brinkley always enjoyed a place in pop culture, it wasn’t until the 1980s that cable news accelerated the concept of for-profit newscasts and the subsequent pantheon of celebrity anchors. Robert Heinecken was one of the first to respond by superimposing images of Connie Chung, Jane Pauley, Bryant Gumbel and others for 1984’s A Case Study in Finding an Appropriate TV Newswoman (A CBS Docudrama in Words and Pictures), whereby he imagines the network in search of an ideal on-air partner for anchor Bill Kurtis. It’s a piece that emphasizes superficiality over content, a plague that has come to define US media in the past 30 years. The words coming out of the mouths of news anchors are still meaningful, though often in ways network producers and the anchors themselves could scarcely expect. The Israeli film-maker and artist Omer Fast has written epic poems using the words of talking heads, only not in the order they’re spoken. His CNN Concatenated from 2002 is a mash-up of hundreds of anchors urgently reading copy in the aftermath of 9/11. From each a single word is plucked and edited in the order of Fast’s choosing, resulting in a rapid-fire montage of talking heads delivering an evocative composition with phrases like, “Listen to me. I wanna tell you something. Come closer. Don’t be upset and don’t get emotional. Just get near me and pay attention please. Look, I know that you’re scared.”While manipulation of one kind or another is a constant throughout the Getty show, the Chilean artist Alfredo Jaar needed almost none to make his point about Africa’s place in the media pecking order. Looking at 1996’s Searching for Africa in LIFE, featuring thumbnail covers of Life magazine from the 1930s to the final issue in 1972, one finds only a handful of stories about the continent, focusing either on wildlife or starvation.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Untitled (Newsweek). Photograph: Alfredo JaarNewsweek showed similar indifference evidenced in Jaar’s Untitled (Newsweek), which includes 17 covers from 1994. As the Rwanda massacre unfolded, it was upstaged by cover stories on figures like Kurt Cobain, Jackie O and Nicole Brown Simpson. Under each is a caption noting the week’s atrocities in the war-torn country, with the event finally being addressed on the last cover with a headline reading: “Hell on Earth”.“How do we inform ourselves about the world? We have our parents, we have education and then we have the media,” Jaar told Art21 Magazine earlier this year. “Every fragment of information the media puts out contains an ideological conception of the world. Its messages are not innocent; they try to sell us a specific picture of the world, and most of the time a very conservative one.”His current work, The Rwanda Project, is accompanied by a lecture entitled It is Difficult, which he will deliver at the Getty in February. The title, which he culled from poet William Carlos Williams’s Asphodel, That Greeny Flower, touches directly on the new show’s theme and the role art plays in interpreting the world around us – “It is difficult / to get the news / from poems / yet men die miserably every day / for lack / of what is found there.”