I wrote a book called Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk, and Ang Lee made it into a movie. I had nothing to do with the movie except for writing the book, a made-up tale of a squad of American soldiers who are filmed in battle by a news crew and who, when the footage goes viral, are brought back to the US for a government sponsored two-week “Victory Tour”. There are many screens in the book, and even more screens in the movie, which opens with footage of young Billy Lynn fighting bravely to save his wounded sergeant. The sequence ends with a freeze-frame of Billy crouching over his sergeant and returning fire, the camera pulling in closer and closer on the news-film still until it fractures into the digitised grid of its component parts.I got the idea for the book from a screen, and why not. We experience so much these days via screens, and this particular experience, watching the halftime show of a Dallas Cowboys football game on TV, was very much like the halftime show portrayed in the book, an acid-trip extravaganza featuring Destiny’s Child, marching bands, half-naked cheerleaders, troupes of dancers, fireworks, flags, and a couple of hundred uniformed American troops. It was exactly the kind of insanity at which my country so proudly excels, and it got me thinking about those troops down on the field, and what it might do to your head if you were a young soldier who had experienced the ultimate life-and-death reality of combat, and were then dropped into this lurid, highly regimented sensory bash with an aesthetic lifted straight from the book of Revelation. At some point in our recent history, fantasy made reality its bitch What I was thinking about, though I didn’t know it at the time, was the fact that at some point in our recent history, fantasy made reality its bitch. One of the plotlines of the book concerns the possibility of Hollywood making a movie based on the exploits of Billy and his comrades, and, Hollywood being Hollywood, messing the soldiers around. In frustration, Billy begins to wonder why anybody would even pay to see a movie about the battle, given that the news footage is freely available online. Although to him, the footage looks completely fake, not like any battle he remembers being in, so maybe you do need craft and artifice to make something that looks real, a fake thing that looks more real than the real thing itself. Then again, people keep telling Billy how the news footage looks like a movie to them, a John Wayne sort of deal, last stand at the Alamo, Audie Murphy holding off the Wehrmacht ...Ang Lee took this notion I had about reality and fantasy and launched it on a long strange trip through space and time, a quantum physics elaboration of the pokey arithmetic I was doing in the book. What’s real and what’s fake? Not so easy to know in the age of the screen, and such trouble not knowing can get us into: love trouble, money trouble, geopolitical trouble – invasions of foreign countries on false pretences, or stars of “reality” TV being elected heads of state. Lee had something radical to say about this. He shot the movie in 3D, at 120 frames per second (standard is 24 fps), and at 4k resolution, which means each shot contains about 40 times more visual information than the usual movie. What he did was so new, so far ahead of the industry, that it pains me greatly that only a handful of cinemas can show the movie in the way he intended.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the official trailer for Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime WalkWhich is, if not a travesty, at the very least a damn shame. To see it in “fast format” is to be shoved into the middle of the reality-fantasy dilemma. The movie doesn’t pop from the screen with cheesy 3D gimmickry so much as surround you with texture, light, motion. Is it hyper-real? Hyper-fake? How about both at once. American critics were rattled by this strange new thing, the hyper-reality that looked so real it looked fake. Much was made of the pores on Steve Martin’s unpowdered nose. For this viewer, the sum effect of all this hyper-real artifice was to make me intensely aware of myself, a body in a theatre watching a movie in present time. I wasn’t allowed to luxuriate in illusion, to “lose myself” in this movie that kept hauling me up by the collar and thrusting my normally passive, screen-watching, semi-bovine self into the centre of things. It was unsettling. It was thrilling. It did something to my brain, this drama of aggression that didn’t allow the viewer to escape self-awareness, and thereby implication.Dylan has a song, “Brownsville Girl”, where the Dylan person goes to a movie starring Gregory Peck, about a man riding across the desert who’s gunned down by a hungry kid. The song goes on:Something about that movie, though, well I just can’t get it out of my head But I can’t remember why I was in it or what part I was supposed to play All I remember about it was Gregory Peck and the way people moved And a lot of them seemed to be lookin’ my way ...That’s Lee’s movie: it puts you into play, your “role”, what you’re doing here. Not the most comfortable place to be, in a movie about a hugely immoral war. It isn’t so much a work of virtual reality as a work in reality, the living, breathing reality of the unmediated self, with no place to hide when the lights come up.• Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk is out on 10 February. The book is available in paperback from Canongate. To order a copy for £6.79 (RRP £7.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.