The controller of BBC TV channels has come out fighting against government criticism with a spirited defence of its “unashamedly popular” and distinctive television and a warning over future erosion of its independence.In her first speech in her role as controller of BBC TV channels and iPlayer, Charlotte Moore said BBC1 must continue to unite the nation “around big, shared moments”. She rejected the suggestion made last week by the culture secretary, John Whittingdale, that the channel had become less distinctive.Moore made her comments at the launch in London of a raft of new programming. She said: “I don’t recognise – and more importantly neither does the public recognise – what the secretary of state said about BBC1 last week.“I’m not sure how much more distinctive the last few weeks could have been, with new shows like The Night Manager, our mental health season, David Attenborough’s Giant Dinosaur, Dickensian, War & Peace, not to mention the return of Happy Valley.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hollander and Tom Hiddleston in The Night Manager. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink Factory/Des WillieCiting Ofcom data that BBC1 was the nation’s distinctive popular television channel, Moore said she felt compelled to speak out, even though it was not her job to “get involved in political debates”. Moore, who was BBC1 controller until earlier this year and is now controller of all channels except the online-only BBC3, set out her vision on Monday night after BBC television management is understood to have agreed to 30% job cuts across her division, affecting just more than 100 of a 400 back office and support roles.The new programmes unveiled include several new dramas for BBC1 such as Wanderlust, an exploration of marriage and monogamy by award-winning playwright Nick Payne, and a drama about schoolboy Damilola Taylor’s murder, written by Levi David Addai.Jeremy Paxman is to return to BBC1 with an hour-long documentary on the European Union before the 23 June referendum, while three other BBC news presenters – Nick Robinson, Laura Kuenssberg and Mishal Husain – will present separate authored pieces on the referendum for BBC2.In comments made last week in Oxford, the culture secretary asked whether popular programmes such as Strictly Come Dancing or Great British Bake Off were “absolutely distinctive”. He added that it would be up to an external regulator to define such content, however.Referring to Whittingdale’s suggestion “that a more distinctive BBC1 would have a smaller audience”, Moore said: “I’ve found that the more ambitious and pioneering we are, the more the audience rewards us. And shouldn’t we want that? If programmes are distinctive, we don’t want fewer people watching them.“Why would I steer the BBC down a path where I make the good unpopular? It would be the public who would lose out.”Moore said she was placing factual programming at the heart of BBC2 and announced a renewed focus on contemporary arts and music.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benedict Cumberbatch in The Hollow Crown. Photograph: Robert Viglasky/BBC/Neal Street Productions/CarnAmong new BBC2 programmes will be King Charles III, a “future history” play written in blank verse, three new single documentaries by award-winning directors, NW, the dramatisation of the Zadie Smith novel, and a three-part version of Evelyn Waugh’s Decline and Fall.In May, the second run of Shakespeare adaptations The Hollow Crown begins with Benedict Cumberbatch as Richard III and a cast list that includes Dame Judi Dench, Hugh Bonneville and Sally Hawkins. Top Gear, with Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc, is also confirmed for BBC2.Moore promised more fresh content in programmes premiering on iPlayer but said little about BBC4, raising fears about its future, which were downplayed by the corporation.She said: “BBC iPlayer will have an increasingly important part to play in the BBC’s future. “I want to grow iPlayer in the future and will explore more premieres and how we reach new audiences.” On Tuesday morning, the BBC director general, Tony Hall, is expected to deliver a cri de cœur designed to stop encroaching government influence on the BBC.Hall will welcome the independent report into BBC governance published by David Clementi last week which called for the corporation to be overseen for the first time by the external regulator, Ofcom, and for editorial oversight to be provided by a new unitary board. Under the proposals, the government would be able to appoint half the board and the majority of the non-executives as well as the chairman, the vice chairman and four of the non-executive directors.“The BBC is one of the world’s great public service broadcasters, not a state broadcaster,” Hall plans totell a conference on Tuesday. “And when it comes to appointing the members to the new unitary board - the BBC’s editorial board – we will be arguing for a transparent and independent process, at arm’s-length from the government.”