When he was 16 years old, Adam Mudd, a computer science student from Kings Langley, Hertfordshire, created a piece of software that could be used to take down even the largest, most fortified websites in the world. Mudd dubbed his tool Titanium Stresser, a name that captured both its strength and its capacity to cause niggling mischief. The software was a so-called distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) tool, a kind of digital weapon used to direct vast amounts of fake traffic to a particular website in order to cause its servers to fail and go offline – a bit like flicking every light switch in a skyscraper on at the same exact moment in order to trigger a power cut.Between December 2013 and March 2015, Mudd, who lived with his parents at the time, carried out 594 such attacks on more than 180 targets, crashing, for example, the network at his school, West Herts College. Mudd, who pleaded guilty to the charges at the Old Bailey last month, soon began selling his software online. It proved popular and profitable; more than 112,000 people bought packages from Mudd, who made £386,000 from his enterprise. Titanium Stresser soon became a notorious scourge of online institutions around the world, particularly video game companies. The fantasy game RuneScape, for example, suffered more than 25,000 attacks. Its owner company reportedly spent £6m trying to defend itself against the onslaught.Mudd’s software had a panoramic reach. During a two-day hearing, following which he was sentenced to two years in a young offender institution, the prosecutor Jonathan Polnay said that Mudd’s hacking program was “truly global”, its effects seen in almost every major city in the world. Mudd comfortably fits the cliche of the disaffected young computer vandal. One motivation for the software’s creation, Mudd said, was the paucity of response after he reported being mugged at college. He suffered from Asperger syndrome. In the headline details, Mudd appears to be a stablemate of fictionalised hackers such as Boris Grishenko, the bespectacled Russian hacker from GoldenEye, Lisbeth Salander, the energy-drink gulping protagonist of Stieg Larsson’s The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (described, variously, as “paranoid”, “obsessive” and “psychotic”), and Mr Robot, NBC’s delusional, depressed hacker who soothes his social anxieties with drugs.In the hearing, however, a more complicated picture emerged. “This was an unhappy period for Mr Mudd, during which he suffered greatly,” said the young man’s lawyer, Ben Cooper. “This is someone seeking friendship and status within the gaming community,” before noting that Mudd had become “lost in an alternate reality” due to bullying at school. In the past decade, anyone who lives a portion of their life online will know that there is no meaningful distinction between physical and digital existence. There are no dual realities here. Social media, with its likes, retweets and rising follower counts has turned social standing into a plain high-score game, a way to quantify, via those irrefutable, arcade-like numbers, how smart, funny, popular or politically on-point we are within our chosen circles.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a virtual reality video from Mr Robot.The way in which Mudd sought validation from his peers may seem alien, but the urge and the arena are more universal. A recent study by the National Crime Agency backs up Cooper’s argument that young hackers are motivated not by profit but by the chance to improve their social standing. “Conquering the challenge, proving oneself to the group… are more important motivations than financial gain,” stated the report’s authors. This poses a problem for those banks and intelligence agencies pushing to recruit young people like Mudd (GCHQ, for example, runs initiatives such as Can You Crack It? to inspire young hackers to join up). Social media trains children to chase approval and notoriety over profit. We may condemn Mudd’s actions and applaud his sentence , but it’d be disingenuous to deny him our sympathy.