Benjamin Millepied’s decision to quit his job as director of the Paris Opera Ballet has been shocking in its abruptness, not just because he’s only been in the post for little more than a year, but because so much was promised by his appointment.Benjamin Millepied resigns from Paris Opera Ballet Millepied arrived in Paris with grand plans for revitalising the company’s repertory. As a choreographer himself, he planned to create new ballets in-house; but he was also planning a dramatic increase in the number of new commissions, bringing in works from choreographers such as Wayne McGregor, Justin Peck and Crystal Pite whom he regarded as central to 21st-century ballet-making.Millepied also spoke of restoring music and music-making to the heart of the company, with commissioned scores for some of the new works and collaborative productions with the opera company. Meanwhile, he identified the importance of stimulating dance-making talent from inside the company ranks, and with the appointment of William Forsythe as an associate artist, he set in place an academy with a training programme to develop young choreographers.Most ambitiously, Millepied aspired to free the company from what he saw as its hidebound adherence to tradition. He planned to loosen its competitive system of grading and promoting the dancers, and to challenge complacency over its signature style. Paris dancers have been renowned the world over for their elegance, precision and grace, yet they can also appear mannered and Millepied was urging his company to more expression, freedom and musicality in their performances.He seemed to be succeeding, as even in his first season, critics began to note a new zest and fluency. Yet Millepied, who was born in France but spent his adult career dancing and choreographing in America – was trying to deliver these changes with a bluntness that many in Paris found hostile. He pulled no punches when he spoke in public about his mission to “bring a breath of air to ballet”. During a television documentary broadcast just before Christmas, he said that the company was in a rut, too attached to its strict hierarchical structure and far from being as “excellent” as it believed. It was sometimes as boring to watch as “wallpaper”.Not surprisingly, a lot of the dancers took offence; one told Le Monde that the atmosphere in the company had became “very stormy” in the wake of Millepied’s attack, another senior principal said he’d never experienced anything like it. Millepied, however, in explaining his motives for leaving the company has barely touched on these disagreements. Instead, he has focused on the fact that the demands of running as large a company as Paris have proved incompatible with his personal ambitions to choreograph. “I want to regain my freedom and I want to create,” he says.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benjamin Millepied and his wife, Natalie Portman. Photograph: Valery Hache/AFP/Getty ImagesTo that end Millepied will return in July to Los Angeles, where he still directs the LA Dance Project, a small contemporary dance company that he founded in 2012. With him will be his wife, Natalie Portman, and their son, and while Millepied has said that Portman did not influence his decision, there have been rumours that the actor was unhappy in Paris and was keen to base herself professionally back in America. Whatever the motives of Millepied’s decisions, there’s a wider issue here, which is the challenge faced by any outsider in trying to reform an organisation as large and inherently conservative as POB. With 150 dancers and three centuries of proud tradition, the company is as hard and cumbersome to turn around as a giant ocean liner. Millepied seems genuinely to have misunderstood the beast he was dealing with when he came to Paris, to have underestimated the complexity of its politics, and the sensitivity of its internal dynamics.There’s a parallel here to the situation created by the Royal Ballet when it experimented with its own “breath of air” – Australian artistic director Ross Stretton. Setting aside – if we can – the ugliness with which his appointment ended, with allegations of sexual harassment from some of the dancers, Stretton’s problem as director was that he simply didn’t get the company who’d hired him. During the 13 months he was in post, he made some good repertory choices – the Royal got its first Mark Morris ballet, for instance. But Stretton never understood what gave the company its identity. Key dancers such as Sarah Wildor, Zenaida Yanowsky and Irek Mukhamedov were sidelined, because they were too idiosyncratic for his taste; the classics were overlooked and in general there was a sense of dissatisfaction and disconnect within the company, who threatened to strike over his management style.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aurélie Dupont and Jean-Guillaume Bart, in Rudolf Nureyev’s production of La Bayadere. Photograph: Don Mcphee for the GuardianBack in Paris, former ballerina Aurélie Dupont has now been named as Millepied’s successor. Trained at the Paris ballet school and up to 2015 a beloved star of the company, Dupont has the POB ethos bred in her bones. In her first public statement, she stressed that her vision for the company will maintain some continuity with Millepied’s, and there are hopes that the latter will return as a guest choreographer. The director of Paris Opera, Stephane Lissner is adamant that Millepied’s brief tenure should not be regarded as a mistake, remarking with classically Parisian aplomb: “I have no regrets over appointing Millepied. He leaves too soon but others leave too late.” However, those whose sensitivities have been wounded by Millepied will take comfort from the fact that Dupont’s style promises to be more respectful, more emollient even – as she said to the assembled press: “It’s a love story with the Paris Opera Ballet. You lose your soul when you join it. It takes time for things to change.”