Saving Lives at Sea9pm, BBC1Pointing a camera at brave, competent people who have to make difficult decisions about dangerous situations rarely fails to make compelling television. This study of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) has been no exception. This final episode focuses on the lives that RNLI volunteers are called to save, from sailors out of their depth and rescuers who need rescuing themselves to YouTubers who may not have thought through their stunts. Andrew MuellerGogglebox: Brexit Special9pm, Channel 4The post-Brexit political seppuku has often felt like Game of Thrones’s red wedding crossed with Total Wipeout. So it seems appropriate to invite the UK’s favourite TV commentators to review our brave new EU-rejecting reality for a Gogglebrex special. The couch-bound philosophers will assess everything from Theresa May’s frictionless coronation to the Labour party’s ongoing internal combustion. Graeme VirtueSuspects: The Enemy Within10pm, Channel 5Gritty Britishness and jaunty camera angles abound as the documentary-style police drama returns with the discovery of a body. DI Martha Bellamy (who was played by Fay Ripley) has been shot dead in her bed. With the team badly affected by the news, they’re determined to uncover the killer. The casting – including Cucumber’s James Murray, plus Lenora Crichlow and Damien Molony from Being Human – works a treat. Hannah VerdierA Granny’s Guide to the Modern World10.35pm, Channel 4Barry Humphries (82) introduces a show in which elderly reporters explain 21st-century life to us: from swearing and technology to correct language regarding race. There are some gestural conclusions on changing times, but the best bits involve the guileless charm of the reporters. Take 82-year-old Laura-June, a very proper lady. “What are the rules of swearing in the modern world?” she asks. “Today I’m going to meet some builders …” John RobinsonMasters of the Pacific Coast: The Tribes of the American Northwest9pm, BBC4Concluding his travels on the Pacific coast, Jago Cooper tells an initially upbeat story of Europeans, looking to trade in sea otter pelts, co-existing with tribespeople. But then smallpox decimates the indigenous population and what has been called a “cultural genocide” follows. Despite this tragedy, Cooper charts a local identity rooted in a sense of place, which has strongly reasserted itself since. Jonathan WrightWayward Pines9pm, FoxThis series feels as if it should never have gone to a second season. It doesn’t help, in the current Trump climate, that you’re expected to root for a small American community besieged by not-quite-humans kept at bay by a large wall. These penultimate and final episodes see the “abbies” closing in on the Pinesfolk, forcing a momentous decision on the town. Meanwhile, Jason makes an appalling discovery. Can Theo and Xander unite to save humanity? David StubbsThe Rebel10pm, GoldWhen an unscrupulous art buyer from Shoreditch gives charity-shop worker Charles a tenner for an apparently worthless old urine bottle (conspicuously signed with a tell-tale “R Mutt”, history-of-art lovers), a horrified Henry and co hotfoot it to Hackney to get it back, in the last part of this baby-boomer comedy based on the Oldie cartoon strip. Worth catching for Paul Kaye’s triple role, Dr Strangelove-style, as three flavours of absolute berk. Ali CatterallFILM CHOICEIn the Electric Mist (Bertrand Tavernier, 2009), 11.15pm, BBC1Unusual to see French cineast Tavernier on an American thriller, but he makes a powerfully atmospheric job of this tale of murders in the bayou. Based on a James Lee Burke story, it stars Tommy Lee Jones as a haunted detective who is investigating the grisly serial slayings of young women, but is drawn into a decades-old murder and coverup. Paul HowlettThe Girl With the Dragon Tattoo (Niels Arden Oplev, 2009), 1.05am, Film4This original Scandinavian adaptation of Stieg Larsson’s bestseller (closely followed by the US remake with Daniel Craig) sensibly sticks closely to the all-conquering novel. There are superb performances from Noomi Rapace as the abused punk-cum-brilliant hacker Lisbeth Salander and Michael Nyqvist as the crusading journo she teams up with to exhume old crimes and new horrors. Powerful, gripping stuff.LIVE SPORTInternational Cricket: England v Pakistan. 10am, Sky Sports 2 Like London buses, the third Test between these two sides arrives hot on the heels of the last. This week’s venue is Edgbaston.International Cricket: West Indies v India. 3.55pm, Sky Sports 3 The final day’s play from the second Test in Kingston.Baseball: Chicago Cubs v Miami Marlins. 7.15pm, ESPN To Wrigley Field for this National League match-up.