Britain is back in love with dating shows. Following on from the popularity of ITV’s Take Me Out and Channel 4’s First Dates, Channel 5 has announced it is to reboot the queen of all TV dating shows, never equaled by any that were to follow, Blind Date. Cilla Black’s Saturday night ITV vehicle produced some genuine moments of wonder – not to mention at least two marriages – that reputedly endure to this day. The Saturday teatime staple provided a comforting mix of clean-cut youth, Black’s maternal concern and contestants’ really dreadful wordplay. Not to mention the genuine potential for love to blossom right in front of our eyes as the production team followed participants on their trysts, prodding them for blushing reactions.Unlike the close prying of First Dates, filmed with unobtrusive rigged cameras, aiming at naturalism, these courting rituals were entirely performed, wonderfully stilted and heavy with awkwardness.Black offered a sympathetic shoulder-pad to all-comers, unless they were there under false pretences. Like journalist Nicola Gill who appeared on the show as Nicola the temp from London. She was secretly writing an exposé for Cosmopolitan as Black soon cottoned on. Woe betide the Blind Dater who wasn’t really looking for love. The “not angry, more disappointed” host unveiled Gill’s deceit live on air: a sensational TV smackdown.A young Amanda Holden made an early bid for stardom on the show, perched atop one of its famous bar stools. Although the 19-year-old went down well with the studio audience, she wasn’t chosen to go on the final date. I often wonder what might have happened if she had captured the heart of Barnaby back in 1991.Later 90s iterations of the show brought in more audience participation, with Black asking the mob whether a picker should “Ditch or Date” their pickee. But that wasn’t what true Blind Date was about. It was a brightly lit arena for innocent badinage and tentative flirting. We were there to observe, not join in.But gone is the time when a quiet accountant applied to a dating show in the true hope of affection. Channel 5’s plans will no doubt involve a sexy presenter and a rather more shrill batch of contestants. It will be wall-to-wall boobs and shrieking and oily wideboys on the showbiz make. I did want it back, but not like this.