Sir Lenny Henry has repeated calls for ringfenced funding in a bid to improve diversity in television.The comedian, who has campaigned for more black, Asian and minority ethnic people on screen and in writing, producing and directing, also joked about the “multicultural” House of Lords.Speaking at a TV industry conference about diversity, held at Channel 4’s HQ, Sir Lenny said: “It’s wonderful to see everybody here. It’s great actually to see everybody moving in the same direction on this issue, because it needs to be moved on, doesn’t it?Men twice as likely to appear on TV as women, finds Channel 4 study “It just needs to be moved on.”In a comment that prompted laughter from the crowd, he added: “I’ve just been at the House of Lords and it’s really multicultural there.”Henry talked about the importance of ringfenced funding, saying: “It would be fantastic to make the ringfenced money happen, because that will stimulate change in a big way. You watch.“The minute they say ringfenced money’s going to happen, it will just increase BAME production activity.”He said it would be “an incredibly positive thing”.He added: “Let’s have all the talent. Let’s be greedy. Let’s be greedy for the talent we’ve got here.”The actor also joked that he enjoyed watching Idris Elba looking like his “younger brother” when he delivered a speech in Parliament on Monday in which he called for more diversity on TV.Henry vowed to continue making British television the most diverse in the world after receiving a knighthood from the Queen at Windsor Castle in December.ITV News apologised after using a video clip of celebrity chef Ainsley Harriott instead of Henry.ITV chief: ‘a lot that still needs to be done’During a session at the Channel 4 event, TV bosses said that while progress has been made to increase diversity there is more work to be done. During a debate called “How far have we come?”, ITV chief executive Adam Crozier said that while there has been an improvement, it is too early to be “declaring victory”. Channel 4 to launch 'year of disability' “If this was a five day Test match, I think we’re halfway through the first morning,” he said. “It’s much too early for anyone to be declaring victory. There’s a lot that still needs to be done.”BBC director general Tony Hall said diversity is “core” to what the BBC is about. He told the conference: “There is loads to do. I completely agree with Adam that this is about culture change. “Not for one moment can we rest on any laurels we might think we can rest on, in that we’ve just got to keep pushing.” Channel 4’s 360º Diversity Charter found that over 2015, the broadcaster had achieved 24 of the 30 targets it set itself a year ago. Sandi Toksvig: ‘massive gender pay gap’Broadcaster Sandi Toksvig spoke about the importance of having “visible role models” and said it needs to be shown that television takes its responsibility seriously to reflect the society that we live in. She spoke of the “massive gender pay gap” in the industry and said it is a business where it is still worthy of comment when a woman takes over a prime time entertainment show. Representation of women on TV at tipping point, says Sandi Toksvig “We need to level the playing field once and for all,” she said. Toksvig said there is an appetite for change and added that people need to stop worrying that our “heads will implode” if two women team up to present something. She called for “diversity of all kinds”, adding that we need “more role models from everyday life and far fewer shows on boys just showing off”. Toksvig said that having two women work together on the radio is “not going to make anybody crash the car, as radical as that may seem”.Muslim Drag Queens star: ‘We just need to be much, much bolder’Asifa Lahore, who featured in Channel 4 documentary Muslim Drag Queens, spoke at the conference about his own personal experience. “I’m Asifa Lahore. I’m South Asian. I’m gay. I’m a drag queen. I represent the LGBT community. I identify as Muslim. And I’m also partially sighted. Muslim Drag Queens activist voices fears of backlash over Channel 4 film “When God was making me he pushed the diversity button very, very hard,” he said. Before doing the programme he said he was performing up and down the country and would receive death threats and online abuse. Lahore said the show gave him the opportunity to have freedom of expression and freedom of speech. “I guess my message to everyone here today is allow people to be represented the way they want to be represented. “Allow people to have their voice. Allow people to have unconstrained self-expression, full-blown self-expression, free speech. “And I might be idealistic, I might come across as deluded or unrealistic. “But if something like Muslim Drag Queens can be broadcast in Britain and to the entire world, in the times that we’re going through right now, then the reality is that anything can be commissioned. “We just need to be much, much bolder as a community,” he said. 