As movies multiply in the Universal Soldier franchise, you might have noticed that Jean-Claude Van Damme is still in them, but looks ghostly. That is because he is present only as a hologram. Feeling a bit that way myself lately, I am making plans for a media future in which I appear only as a shimmering outline. There is a place you can go where you can have it done.The results tend to look spooky, but there is no reason you should not emerge from the operating theatre talking as clearly as Ken Livingstone. You might have noticed from recent TV appearances that Ken is looking a bit crumbly around the edges, but his opinions sound as crisp as ever. The drawback of the technology, however, is that the opinions tend to be propagated automatically at exactly the wrong time.The Ken hologram is currently on air night after night, seeming to proclaim that Hitler, at one point, had a soft spot for the Jews. It’s a matter of unchallengeable fact that Hitler never did, and the original, actual Ken was well aware of this, but the Ken hologram gets the chronology mixed up in the same way that I, not even fully robotised yet, am likely to proclaim that Margaret Thatcher once looked at me in silent awe as I talked.It was almost true. When she got back from her China tour in 1992, she played hostess to her accompanying press corps at Downing Street and did her usual regal thing of asking everyone a brief individual question. She asked me whether I had enjoyed the shamisen prodigy in Shanghai and I made the mistake of saying that I had missed that event because I was at the museum checking out the Han dynasty paintings.Clive James: ‘I hanker for a time when everybody was given a job description by everybody else’ What I should have said was, “Yes.” Having caught me still talking instead of listening to her again, she looked puzzled, an expression so uncommon in her case that it looked as if she was gripped when in fact she was merely wondering what had gone wrong.She wondered that for about 10 seconds before a powerfully built male factotum withdrew me from the conversation. Theoretically, one’s heels should not squeal on a carpet, but it’s a matter of the speed. Denis, dear man, watched me hurtling by, and his look of sympathy is with me yet.The Queen, incidentally, has a guy detailed to make her interlocutor disappear if the answer shows signs of stretching after she asks a question. It doesn’t matter if the gong she is hanging on you is the size of Big Ben, just say thank you and disappear. Otherwise, the Propellant Pursuivant-In-Waiting will do the job for you. A mumble is always a good answer.