Giraffes: Africa’s Gentle Giants – Natural World 8pm, BBC2Terrific documentary founded on a debatable premise: that insufficient attention is paid to the giraffe, a creature as much a staple of wildlife films as the great sabre-fanged felines and/or David Attenborough (who narrates this). The film follows expert Dr Julian Fennessy as he records the welfare of Africa’s remaining giraffe herds – not a risk-free occupation, thanks to heavily armed poachers – and escorts one rare breed to safety. Andrew MuellerFrat Boys: Inside America’s Fraternities 9pm, BBC2Is there more to being a frat boy than downing blue shots, chanting like a baboon and disrespecting women? Defenders of the closed societies claim connections made in the frat house can boost their members’ careers, but there are sinister stories to be told here. The family of Harrison Kowiak are convinced he died when “hazing” (a harsh frat-house initiation ritual) went too far, but an apparent coverup continues. Hannah VerdierNietzsche: Genius Of The Modern World 9pm, BBC4As a child, he was the pious son of a pastor. Near the end of his life, mentally ruined, he supposedly embraced a carthorse in Turin. In between, Friedrich Nietzsche devised a philosophy that contemplated a moral landscape in the absence of God. It would prove wildly contentious, and deeply influence both modernist thought and Nazism. Bethany Hughes explores his legacy and his eventual isolation against a telegenic European backdrop. David StubbsIt’s Not Me, It’s You 10pm, Channel 5Eamonn Holmes hosts this bawdy panel show, in which two teams reveal far too much about their experiences in the world of dating and relationships. Heading up the teams are Kelly Brook and Vicky Pattinson from Geordie Shore, with games such as First Impressions, in which the contestants have to guess which guest is responsible for the anecdote told by Eamonn. There’s another round called Bonkbusters. God help us all. Ben ArnoldMichael Jackson: The Life Of An Icon 9pm, Sky ArtsHis passing was accompanied by a flurry of TV tributes that ranged from the tasteful to the absurd and exploitative. This new offering feels exhaustive and appropriately sober, featuring a comprehensive overview of Jackson’s remarkable career and recollections from those closest to him. Those featured include his mother Katherine, who rarely speaks publicly but here lifts the lid on her son’s upbringing and fraught relationship with his father. Phil HarrisonThe Good Wife 9pm, More4 As the final ever episode of the political legal drama gets its UK premiere tonight, things seem to rather intentionally mirror season one, when Alicia stood by Peter through another scandal. But could a second stint behind bars be on the cards when new evidence supports the case against him? The reappearance of an old face helps Alicia to work through her romantic indecision, but ultimately the lack of closure here may frustrate long-time viewers. Hannah J DaviesEU Referendum – The Result 9.55pm, BBC1 Referendum Result Live 10pm, ITVIt’s time. Having exhaustively done its research, and not simply engaged in knee-jerk, ill-informed snark in the echo chambers of social media, Britain will decide either to stay put in the EU or waltz off into the unknown. On BBC1, David Dimbleby, Jeremy Vine and Emily Maitlis present live coverage of the vote-counting, while Tom Bradby does exactly the same thing over on ITV. Good luck, everyone. Ali CatterallFILM CHOICEDefiance (Edward Zwick, 2008), 10.30pm, BBC2Zwick’s earnest, fact-based second world war drama traces the activities of a Jewish resistance group based in the forests of Belarus. Daniel Craig, Liev Schreiber and Jamie Bell play the Bielski brothers, who take to the woods after the murder of their parents. The dilemma is whether to intensify their guerrilla attacks on the Germans, or to lie low and protect the refugees who gather around them. Paul HowlettBlind (Eskil Vogt, 2014), 1.05am, Channel 4Norwegian director Eskil Vogt’s ingenious debut feature is the story of Ellen Dorrit Petersen’s Ingrid, a young woman struggling to come to terms with her sudden blindness. Alone in her apartment, the psychological impact, the sheer terror, of her new condition is plain; she suspects her husband, Morten (Henrik Rafaelson) is silently spying on her. She copes by writing lurid and funny fantasy scenes on her laptop. It’s a thoroughly engaging performance in an intense and melancholic drama. PHSPORTCricket: T20 Blast Live from Lords: Middlesex Panthers play Somerset (who have no nickname). 6pm, Sky Sports 2 Challenge Cup Rugby League Huddersfield Giants v Wakefield Trinity Wildcats. Quarter-final at the John Smith’s. 7.55pm, Sky Sports 1Women’s International Hockey Great Britain v USA from London’s Olympic Park. 8pm, BT Sport 1