For a time, fans of Nao were more familiar with her fingers than her face. Only those fingers were shown on the artwork accompanying her breakout song, So Good, in June 2014. She then used a black-and-white shot of arms and hands on the EP, February 15. Until late last year, you would have found it difficult to find more than two clear pictures of Nao’s face.Nao review – twisting, twirling stage presence that could melt icebergs In an east London cafe not far from the 27-year-old’s flat, it’s her hands that punctuate her chatter. Her left hand swoops close to a plate of food – “Oh, gosh, this looks great,” – as a waitress lowers it on to our table and briefly interrupts Nao midflow. She’s thinking aloud about how her neighbourhood has affected her music. “It’s factored in a lot,” she says. “London, and east London in particular, has always been a great place for creativity in music. You don’t really notice it when you’re growing up but, with hindsight, you can see everything that was happening.” She thinks back to “when garage and grime were on the cusp of breaking through, and were such an underground thing. I remember being 15 or 16, and hanging out with boys who were MCing in their bedrooms with their decks and writing their lyrics.”Nao didn’t become a rapper or MC, but that creative impulse rubbed off. In the years before she uploaded So Good to SoundCloud – seemingly perfectly formed and co-produced with the help of Jai Paul’s brother AK Paul – she’d been quietly building up her CV in private. Her combination of honey-sweet vocals, hooks and a swirl of R&B, jazz, funk and synth-tinged soul helped catapult her from an unknown in 2014 to No 3 on the BBC’s Sound of 2016 poll.To an outsider, her career has barely started, but Nao started earning money for gigs with a singing class in east London as an adolescent. “It was kind of like my job, because we got paid 20 quid a gig or something – travel expenses, it was called. But at 14, you’ve got 20 quid in your pocket for singing a song, and you’re thinking: ‘Hey, that’s great. I’m rich,’” she says, laughing. From there, she was asked to teach choirs and small vocal ensembles during the summer holidays. “I suppose that was my job. People have paper rounds and stuff, and I did the music. Actually, I did have a paper round – that was my other job.”Nao started writing songs on piano as a teenager. She was hard on herself at the time, striving to be better. The idea of perfection crops up often in her past interviews and on her track Golden. “I just thought everything I was doing was so simple,” she says. “I wanted to be a great musician – to be Nina Simone playing in concert halls.” And so she enrolled on a four-year vocal jazz degree at Guildhall School of Music and Drama. There are hints of the school’s commitment to technical precision in the melodic flow of Nao’s music. But it doesn’t sound much like jazz. How did she get from Coltrane and Charlie Parker to glossy R&B?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Nao – Bad Blood“I felt like jazz was a good way to … educate myself,” she says, carefully choosing her words. “But it was really hard. Jazz can be a difficult artform to understand, so studying it … well, my brain exploded many times,” and she laughs. “Every morning when I woke up, I was like: ‘What am I doing?’ But it was really important. In those four years, I probably put everything I knew before – those other influences, the gospel, the soul, indie, anything I was listening to – in a box. I was so behind that I felt that I could only focus on one thing, and that was my studies.” A mild case of impostor syndrome – “Don’t we all have that, really?” – made her work harder, and rise at 5am to study before class.Jazz bands and soul projects with classmates turned into backing and guest vocalist stints with Pulp, Jarvis Cocker and soul singer Kwabs when she graduated.The day before we meet, she plays her first headlining gig at London venue Heaven. Her mellifluous voice carries through the room. There’s little of the slickly polished dullness that can affect those who spend so long in music school. Nao’s set is relaxed and warm. Familiar, even. She shouts out her mother – “She likes dancing and likes this one,” – before playing Firefly, a single by producer and fellow BBC Sound of … shortlister Mura Masa on which Nao features. Later she tells me that as well as her mum, her best friend and two brothers attended the gig, no doubt contributing to her non-stop grin.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nao performing at Heaven. Photograph: WireImageFrom the music played at home to her mother’s tenacity as a single parent, Nao says she can’t shake her family’s impact on her music. “I’m really close to my brothers and sisters. I took all the influences, all the lessons I learned growing up, from them because I’m the youngest. I could watch the life journeys they went through, and go: ‘I ain’t gonna do that,’” she says. She also soaked in her siblings’ 90s R&B, hip-hop and UKG records, blending them with the Donny Hathaway, Aretha Franklin and Prince albums she loved. She’s taken to calling it “wonky funk”. After Guildhall, she says, “I feel as though I came back full circle, to doing what comes to me naturally. I feel like I’m making songs for me.”Yes, she is aware that people found her artwork unusual but wouldn’t change it. She brings up the discrepancy between how she thinks male and female musicians are prepared for promotional material. “On a photoshoot, a guy can just rock up how he is – without really having to worry about makeup – and take the shots,” she says. “If I go in, it’s hair, it’s makeup, it’s an hour or two before we’ve even taken a photo. I remember thinking: ‘I don’t want it to be too much about me, or about what I look like.’ Music’s for the ears, isn’t it?”