Charles Darwin, speculates bacteriologist Dr Simon Park, would have been “intrigued” by a new cover for On the Origin of Species, which Park has created entirely from bacteria.  The Origin of Species by Charles Darwin, grown with bacteria by bacteriologist Dr Simon Park. Photograph: Dr Simon ParkPark, a senior lecturer in molecular biology at Surrey University, used a cellulose-producing bacterium to create the cover for the book, which he then illustrated using a series of different-coloured bacteria. Park chose Darwin’s seminal work, he said, because “as a microbiologist I know that all the life we see now started off as bacteria and related organisms, so they really were the origin of species”.Park, who curates C-MOULD, the world’s largest collection of microorganisms for use in the arts, believes that On the Origin of Species is the world’s first bacteria-grown book. So far, he has only created the first page, which took a little under two weeks, but has plans to create a longer version.“I have a collection of bacteria I have collected over the last 10 years, with unusual or interesting properties – for example I’ve a whole palette of different-coloured bacteria. Most are cream coloured, but occasionally you find brilliantly coloured ones,” he said. “One of the other types I have is one that produces cellulose, the stuff which is used to make things like paper and cotton. This bacterium naturally produces cellulose, and over a week will grow into a big, thick mass of cellulose, which when it is dried down, becomes … basically a bacterially-created paper.”In large quantities, his coloured bacteria “have the consistency of oil paints or acrylics”, so using a stencil, he printed the cover of the book on to the paper his bacterium created.”I’m pretty certain it’s the first [book to have been created this way],” he said.He displayed the book at the Edinburgh international science festival last week. “People were intrigued,” he said. “You can see the cogs ticking over as they try to match the concept of the book with bacteria … Most of the time, people only think about bacteria when they’re causing diseases – they don’t think of [their] other aspects.”Darwin himself, Park predicted, would have been interested by his project. “When he was alive people were just discovering bacteria, and I know he had an interest in that,” he said. “But he didn’t live long enough to appreciate [their] dominant role … Had he known about them, then they would have been an important part of his evolutionary story.”