Storyville: Murder in Italy 10pm, BBC4Documentaries broadcast under the Storyville marque are almost always absorbing and this is no exception. It’s a retelling of the investigation into the 2010 murder, in the alpine village in Lombardy, of 13-year-old Yara Gambirasio. The story gripped Italy for years – not merely the crime itself, but the hunt for the perpetrator, which involved what might have been the largest DNA manhunt in history, with thousands of samples taken. Andrew MuellerBrexit: Crisis on the Wards – Dispatches 8pm, Channel 4Thank goodness the NHS can look forward to the weekly £350m cash injection that will be facilitated by Britain leaving the EU. Because, otherwise, the service would be in a tight spot. As Morland Sanders explains here, not least among its problems is a nursing shortage due to an unsurprising lack of new staff from Europe. Meanwhile, homegrown recruitment is failing to fill the gaps. Still, at least we got our country back … Paul HowlettBroadchurch 9pm, ITVWith Trish remaining cagey about the identity of the man she slept with on the morning of her attack, Hardy is getting increasingly frustrated that a possible lead is being withheld. More frustrating still is that the menfolk of Broadchurch – well, the menfolk who attended Cath’s raucous party at least – are a predominantly shifty bunch, each in the habit of lying to the police. Meanwhile, Mark, still broken by his grief, sets in motion a plan that angers Beth. Ben ArnoldBritain in Focus: A Photographic History 9pm, BBC4New series, in which Eamonn McCabe – this newspaper’s former picture editor – chronicles the history of photography, from the early days of Henry Fox Talbot attempting to permanently capture images (“motivated by his shortcomings as an artist”) to contemporary artists such as Martin Parr. In this opener, McCabe explores the work of those pioneering Victorians, who soon grasped the commercial appeal of the art form. Ali CaterrallThe Nightly Show with Davina McCall 10pm, ITVThe mad world of politics means it’s a time of proliferating comment. On US TV, that has meant a degree of anarchy and improved ratings for the likes of Saturday Night Live. Here, we struggle to reach that level of mania: The Nightly Show opened with David Walliams talking to Martin Clunes, for example. This week, things may get wilder: Davina McCall is no stranger to the chimps’ tea party of live TV, so might feel more comfortable with chaos. John RobinsonUncensored with Michael Ware 10pm, National GeographicFormer CNN correspondent Michael Ware, best known for reporting on Iraq, takes his sandpaper bellow to Ukraine, where he embeds with the Night Wolves. They’re a Putin-approved Russian Orthodox biker gang, operating on the frontline in eastern Ukraine. The gang – which includes a monk – earnestly explain how Christianity is fundamental to their ideal of the great Russian nation. Jack SealeBig Little Lies 9pm, Sky AtlanticSuburbia’s latent darkness has already been explored in some detail in TV and on film, from the Stepford Wives to Desperate Housewives. What sets this brooding, brilliantly soapy US drama apart, then, isn’t its story of murder and competition among well-to-do parents in Malibu, but the show’s structure. In this opener, we learn that a murder has taken place, but not the identity of victim or perpetrator. Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman star. Hannah J DaviesFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Away We Go, Film4. Photograph: Allstar/FOCUS FEATURESAway We Go (Sam Mendes, 2009) 1.40am, Film4Sam Mendes’s amiable, heartening road movie follows Colorado couple John Krasinski and Maya Rudolph as they head off in search of the perfect place to bring up their as-yet-unborn child. The journey around north America takes them to old friends and seldom-seen family, all with their own idiosyncratic takes on the couple’s odyssey.Live sportCycling: Tirreno-Adriatico 1pm, Eurosport 1. The Italian road race continues with a 168km route from Ascoli Piceno to Civitanova Marche.Ski Jumping: World Cup 4.15pm, Eurosport 1. The men’s HS138 individual qualifying at the latest meeting in Lillehammer, Norway.FA Cup Football: Chelsea v Manchester United 7.30pm, BBC1. A heavyweight cup tie from Stamford Bridge.