When I was nine years old, all I could talk about was the Spice Girls. They had arrived from nowhere in a riot of big hair and bigger attitudes, high-kicking their way into my consciousness, where they commandeered 80% of my waking thoughts. I loved their unruliness, their fearlessness and, obviously, their massive shoes. In the Spice Girls universe, girls were better than boys (something I’d long suspected), and friendship was better than romance.As a heroically effeminate kid growing up in a West Midlands village, friends were an entirely abstract concept. But while boys on the school bus threw keys at me, I cultivated a rich interior life, disappearing into Spiceworld for hours at a time. My mantra became, “What would Geri do?”, inspiring me to streak my hair with my sister’s Sun In and speak with a hint of a Watford accent. If people were alarmed, I was unbothered, having developed the smug self-assurance of someone who had discovered God but was surrounded by heathens. At a family gathering, I appeared with my Ginger Spice doll and proselytised violently on behalf of the band. “You’re going to be so embarrassed by all of this in a couple of years’ time,” promised my teenage cousin Nate. “Nah,” I thought. “Not likely.”It is now just over two decades since the Spice Girls released their debut single, unleashing the biggest pop culture phenomenon since the Beatles. Soon they were everywhere: being discussed in parliament (was the secretary of state heartened to hear that Margaret Thatcher was the original Spice Girl?), manhandling Prince Charles and plotting side careers as UN ambassadors. Nelson Mandela declared himself a mega-fan, and described meeting them as one of the greatest moments of his life. (An unfazed Baby Spice responded: “Of course it was.”) Some people are inspired to enter journalism by Watergate. I wanted to edit Spice magazine The group aren’t the only ones celebrating a milestone: at the age of 29, I have been obsessed with them for two-thirds of my life. They’ve been one of my most enduring relationships and soundtracked every era of my existence. The opening cackle of Wannabe can instantly hotwire me back to my first day at secondary school, my first job, my first date. It’s a devotion that has had far-reaching consequences: some people are inspired to enter journalism by Watergate; I wanted to edit Spice magazine. The quarterly publication contained extravagantly meta features such as Halliwell interviewing herself, and a problem page you can’t believe they got away with. In one memorable exchange a young fan complained, “There’s a boy at school who’s telling everyone he’s had sex with me. How can I stop his lies?” “Beat him at his own game,” advised Posh. “Go around the school saying what a bad shag he was.”Following a degree in journalism (dissertation title: More Geri Halliwell Than Gerry Adams: To What Extent Did The Spice Girls Phenomenon Contribute To The Current Climate Of Celebrity News?), I nurtured a singular ambition – to fulfil my destiny and meet the band. By December 2014, I’d landed a staff job on a glossy magazine and lobbied tirelessly to do a cover interview with Scary Spice, celebrating her star turn as an X Factor judge. The week of the shoot, I was beside myself with excitement. On the morning itself, I could feel my spirit ascending.Mel B turned up three hours late, in a mood more terrifying than scary, and things went sharply downhill from there. After a scuffle with a fashion assistant resulted in tears (his), she refused to wear 80% of the clothes he’d brought before begrudgingly agreeing to pose in a giant pair of Victoria’s Secret angel wings. She responded “I just do me” to 11 of my questions in between flamboyant yawns. Things were not going well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With Mel B. Photograph: Courtesy of Joe StoneAs she continued to deliver monosyllabic answers, a series of vignettes scrolled through my mind. Me aged 10, embarking on a pilgrimage to Mel’s hometown of Leeds; aged 13, taking my older brother’s birth certificate to Birmingham’s dodgiest tattoo shop and getting the same Japanese stomach tattoo that Scary had; aged 17, being one of only 670 people who bought her “difficult” (terrible) second album. I felt like crying. Then I started to feel rising indignation.I also started to panic: I had a lengthy piece to file the next day and zero material. I snapped: “Why are you so rude?” The temperature in the room dropped several degrees and her expression turned from mildly disdainful to openly hostile. I feared she would reach across and slap me, but my mouth was running whether I liked it or not. “Has being so famous given you a massive ego?” I added, as if the reason she hadn’t answered was because she hadn’t understood the question, rather than because she was weighing up whether or not to spit in my face. I left feeling as if a childhood dream had been bulldozed “I do have a massive ego – I always have done, famous or not,” she shot back. “Yes, but if you were a normal person working in a shop and you behaved the way you have today, you’d get sacked. That’s the difference.” A pause, before she answered. “If you must know, I walked in pissed off because I had a big row with my husband. He pisses me off like no other.” Finally, I had something resembling a quote. We staggered through 10 more painful minutes and I left feeling as if a childhood dream had been bulldozed. This must be why they say never meet your heroes.That Saturday night, she was missing from the X Factor, and a spokesperson confirmed she was in hospital. My editor went into meltdown: What if she’s seriously ill? Oh God, what if she dies? What if she dies, and on Tuesday our issue hits newsstands with her dressed as an angel on the cover?But by Sunday evening, a bruised Mel was back on the show amid speculation that her marriage was in trouble (her husband, Stephen Belafonte, denied allegations of abuse). My interview was rushed online and the quotes about Belafonte became front page news. As I fielded calls from the Sun and the Mirror, I felt mounting anxiety at the part I’d unwittingly played in making a difficult time in her life worse. (She has recently filed for divorce from Belafonte, citing years of abuse, which he denies.) This was not how my first audience with a Spice Girl was meant to go.It would be 18 months before my next encounter with a band member, during which time I began the long and painful process of getting my Mel B tribute tattoo removed. I continued listening to the Spice Girls most days, and when a call came asking if I wanted to interview Geri Halliwell in her north London mansion, the obvious answer was: SCREEEEEEAM.Ginger Spice had always been my favourite. When she left the group in 1998, I took to my bed for two days, emerging briefly before suffering a secondary breakdown when my well-meaning mother had the temerity to suggest that, “Maybe you could become a B*Witched fan instead?” Geri was the one who most successfully carried the group’s DNA into her solo career. Following her departure, the Spice Girls veered into making dull rhythm and blues with big-shot American producers; meanwhile Geri appeared being “reborn” out of a giant inflatable crotch at the Brits, and released the ingeniously titled track Heaven And Hell (Being Geri Halliwell).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With Ginger Spice. Photograph: Courtesy of Joe StoneThe fact that she wasn’t the best singer and dancer in the world (or even the group) only endeared her to me more. I also liked that she knew how it felt to be a fan. Growing up, she’d fantasised about marrying George Michael, and when that proved more complicated than anticipated, settled for becoming his best friend and moving into his LA home.Waiting for Geri in her lounge, surrounded by framed pictures of the band, was the closest I’d come to an out-of-body experience. When she finally appeared, she looked taken aback. “Oh my God, it’s you!” she exclaimed. “The boy with the dead chicken!” Understandably, her publicist looked worried. I told him that when I was 19 I had appeared on Channel 4’s Shipwrecked, where castaways lived on a desert island for five months. I had a pet chick, named Geri, which had died. The whole thing was quite embarrassing, I told Geri. “It’s not, it was really sweet,” she said, breezily. “Embarrassing is Rebecca Loos wanking off that pig on The Farm.” Having followed the ups and downs of her personal life, it was warming to see her so happy After offering to make me lunch, she told me, “I’ve wasted so much time trying to fine-tune who I am. Now I try to think, ‘Actually, I’m enough. This is going to have to do.’” Having followed the ups and downs of her personal life, it was warming to see her so happy. She sought my advice on what to wear to an event at Buckingham Palace, before waving me off with a cheery, “See you soon.” As I walked to the station, I felt a euphoria I imagine is familiar to heroin users.Emma Bunton was similarly lovely when I met her a month later. My faith in the band restored, I had jumped at the chance to interview her at the St Pancras Hotel in London, where the video for Wannabe was filmed. I waited until the end of the interview before admitting I was a huge fan. I’m sure it was a sentiment she’d heard 10 times a day for the past 20 years, but she did a convincing job of seeming touched. “That’s so nice to hear,” she said. “Who was your favourite?” Without blinking I replied, “Geri Halliwell”. Her crestfallen expression indicated this was not the right answer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With Emma Bunton. Photograph: Courtesy of Joe StoneThere was worse to come. In September last year, Victoria Beckham launched her first makeup collection. Despite knowing as much about cosmetics as I do quantum physics, I begged my magazine’s beauty editor to let me speak to her for a regular column. Possibly out of pity, she agreed. It's deeply depressing that a woman in her position expends so much energy worrying about an unflattering angle I arrived 20 minutes early at the high-end department store, clutching my approved questions. After an anxious wait, I was led into an expensive-smelling room, and greeted by Victoria wearing a green-and-white striped suit of her own design. The trousers were so long they covered her feet; she glided towards me like a Dementor. Her otherworldly appearance was compounded by the fact that she seemed to have droplets of morning dew on her face. Had she been… misted?I discovered that her favourite products were all the ones she was promoting, and that she love, loves fragrance. Her favourite smell was figs. “That’s a very decisive answer,” I tried. “It’s obviously a smell a lot of people associate with me,” she replied, the absurdity of that statement apparently lost on her. Talking about her relationship with the paparazzi, she said, “You can never guarantee a good picture. As a control freak, that really puts me outside my comfort zone. It’s why I often have sunglasses on and my head down.” It struck me as deeply depressing that a woman in her position – who has gone from being one of the world’s biggest pop stars to one of its most celebrated fashion designers, marrying one of its most desirable men along the way – expends so much energy worrying about an unflattering angle. The business of being Victoria Beckham sounds exhausting.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With Victoria Beckham. Photograph: Courtesy of Joe StoneWhen I asked for my own picture with her at the end of the interview, she happily obliged, but lost all composure when she saw the result. After demanding that I delete it, she insisted that we move to another room with better lighting for a second, third and fourth attempt. Her parting words were, “Please don’t post the first ones online.” She needn’t have worried: she looked like a supermodel; I looked like I was chewing a wasp. Mel C was as relaxed as Victoria was controlled when I was sent to interview her Mel C was as relaxed as Victoria was controlled when I was sent to interview her for Attitude magazine. Popular opinion always had Sporty pegged as the most talented Spice Girl, but she was also the least sure of herself and the most damaged by fame. She has spoken publicly about her depression and eating disorders, saying she doesn’t recognise herself in old footage.Sporty was the least pretentious multimillion-selling pop star I have met. She offered to make me a cup of tea before talking with disarming honesty about the darker dynamics at play within the group. She said one of the songs on her new album was “about being in a situation as a young adult where I felt bullied and how that has affected me, and moulded me in a way”. After confirming that she was talking about her time in the band, she added, “When I was younger, I let people shit on me. What’s done is done, but I’d have liked to have been a bit stronger.” Recalling my own confrontation with Mel B, I told her I could relate.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With Mel C. Photograph: Courtesy of Joe StoneDespite her conflicted feelings about being a Spice Girl, Mel C said the thing that made her most proud was “when people who were fans at a very young age approach and say we inspired them in their careers, or gave them the confidence to come out as gay”. I suspect she knew she was talking to one of them.Melanie Chisholm: ‘To whom would I like to say sorry? The other Spice Girls’ Having finally achieved my dream of meeting the band, how do I feel about them? Much the same as I did in 1996. This year my boyfriend claimed, with no small degree of horror, that my obsession was “getting worse”; I think I was just overexcited to have finally had my official Spice Girls wallpaper hung in the kitchen.Like the rest of the world, I have been less invested in their solo careers. Together, they were perhaps the ultimate example of the whole being more than the sum of its parts, and have found some of their individual projects deeply triggering (Melanie B’s Catty Couture clothing line was a particular lowlight). My fascination is with those couple of years when, despite the missed notes and sloppy dance routines, they managed to rule the world and anything felt possible.Meeting them wasn’t always exactly the way I’d pictured it, but I’m thrilled to have done it. I don’t mind that they’re not perfect: they never claimed to be – and that was the point. Growing up, they taught me that I didn’t need to be, either. 