Death. It is inevitable. As sentient beings we all know this, but it’s my public duty to remind you of the fact. One day – sooner rather than later in the great scheme of things – each and every one of us will pop our clogs, peg it, pass on to the great processing centre in the sky, and there’s a high chance it will happen in the toilet or on our knees, pleading for mercy. It’s very healthy to talk about it ya know, but you can thank me another time.Why Angela Rippon is one of Britain's greatest-ever style icons How To Stay Young (Thursday, 9pm, BBC1) has chosen Angela Rippon and TV doctor Chris van Tulleken to gently hammer home some cutting-edge health info on How To Stave Off Death For Three Additional Zumba-Filled Months. Hovering somewhere between standard corporeal factutainment and light instruction, the show first introduces Rippon in a crisp white tennis skirt, whacking a few balls at her opponent as she’s prone to do as part of a healthy and fulfilling active lifestyle. Seventy-one-year-old Angela is gearing up for a round of tests to determine, on TV, how well she’s aged. “The first time I really started thinking about my age was on my 70th birthday,” she admits. If it’s taken an intelligent and switched-on woman like Angela 70 years to face up to her mortality then, frankly, the rest of us have no chance. But maybe watching television personalities being shunted into MRI scanners is exactly what we need to make us engage with the trippiest of spin-outs: the great beyond. Maybe this is what’s really required to grapple with the years ahead of you and start clawing a few back.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fisher ladies in Okinawa, JapanYou can almost see such calculations running through the Big Ripper as she pores over her MRI results, designed to find out whether her organs are ageing at the same rate as the rest of her. I can’t be the only person who finds it a low kind of cruelty that a broadcast journalist of her standing should be subjected to such an experience. Out of sight, out of mind, I say. But blunt bodily confrontations are the mainstay of these shows, and her saucy little tennis outfit can’t save her from the all-seeing magnetic resonance imaging.It’s not good news, neither. Though she has the muscle tone of a lithe 46-year-old yoga instructor, Angela’s scans reveal that visceral fat has settled itself round her organs. This stuff is the Isis of health problems, a death cult of sleeper agents ready to take you at any moment. “Where the heck has all this internal fat come from?” Angela asks, as a lifetime of salads and mixed doubles flash before her eyes. It shouldn’t be like this, but then I’ve heard all about this Grim Reaper fella and there’s no fooling him. Truth be told, he sounds like exactly the sort of dickwad who’d find humour in snatching you away six months into a no-butter diet.Thank the health progs then for arming us with what little information there is for fighting against the tyranny of death. I took care to absorb every bit of data the show saw fit to spit at me: that 75% of your death date is down to lifestyle, for example, and that you can only blame the remaining 25% on genes. I’ve put the hours in and I can now exclusively reveal what we’ve got in our arsenal against the reaper: diet and exercise. Yes, I was shocked too. Why this information is being held from us I can’t say, though I do have supreme confidence we’ll all act on it immediately.But, How To Stay Young, what else is there? Surely there must be more we can do to avoid the bleak eternity? Hang on a minute. It turns out that, for the benefit of scientific advancement, Dr Chris has done himself up like a geriatric to conduct a survey, the findings of which show that one large predictor of longevity is how positively you view the ageing process. So there you have it. There is only one way to beat death and that’s to submit to it. Hang up your Fitbit and obey. He’s waiting for you, but he’s in no rush, and with any luck it’ll be nice and warm where we’re going.