I can feel my shoulders freckling in the summer sun. The heat borders on oppressive and a thin line of sweat beads at my hairline, barely cooled by a passing breeze. I am standing next to a pond, atop a giant sundial where high noon betrays no shadows, and I am sending a Tentacruel – a giant poisonous jellyfish – to attack the man across from me. There are no tumbleweeds to set the scene, no spaghetti-western whistles or wide-frame cuts to layer on the tension, but my finger still twitches to the countdown of our duel.Three. Two. One. Go.I am on a date.I should mention: I do not go on dates often. I have never once been on a dinner-and-a-movie kind of date, or met anyone with romantic intentions couched in requests for coffee. I’m not good at it and, to be honest, I prefer to remain oblivious to the entire dating scene. I find the process antiquated and strange, and the few times I’ve found myself on the receiving end of an “... out for a drink sometime?” or “... would love to get your number—” I start stammering, stuttering, and go red-faced. It’s awkward, I get uncomfortable, and my social anxiety rears its ugly head, analysing and criticising my every move. Above that, I’ve had my fair share of more-than uncomfortable experiences in the games industry when it comes to romance and – god forbid – dating. I’d rather stay at home and take part in one of BioWare’s Dragon Age or Mass Effect virtual romances, thank you. At least then I know the relationship is doomed from the outset.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There are all kinds of pocket monster matchmaking sites and services whichthat promise to either set you up with a Pokémon-hunting partner, or serve as an alternative to singles-mixers.’ Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APBut, as many people have noted in the wake of Pokémon Go’s release, social anxiety of all sorts is harder to see when viewed through the lens of augmented-reality Pokémon training. And despite the fact that it isn’t exactly a good game, it has taken the world by storm. The joint venture from the Pokémon Company and Niantic has even managed to start in on the dating scene. There are all kinds of pocket monster matchmaking sites and services that promise to either set you up with a Pokémon-hunting partner, or serve as an alternative to singles-mixers. True to the app’s recent fame for getting otherwise socially anxious gamers out in the world and interacting with people face to face, I found myself in the middle of an impromptu conversation about the game with someone on the street. He had noticed I was playing before its UK release, trying desperately to catch an early-days Hypno in the middle of a busy junction.“Oh, wow, sorry – are you playing Pokémon Go?” he stopped to ask me.Could Pokémon Go improve people's health? “What? Uh, yeah, sorry – I just,” Swipe. Swipe. Swipe. Pokeball after Pokeball down the drain. “I can’t catch this Hypno. Look – can you just, do you want to give it a shot?”I thrust my phone into his hands, still connected to my headphones, and showed him very quickly how the game worked.“You just kind of ... ” I mimed the flicking movement with my index finger. “And then it, y’know. Catches ’em.”He nodded solemnly and attempted to imitate my hand movements. He threw a few Pokéballs unsuccessfully before handing the phone back to me, and I tried again. We made idle chat about how excited we were for the game’s full release, our favourite Pokémon, what he did for a living, and the research I was working on. We didn’t end up catching the Hypno, but the conversation was nice and we had an easy rapport. Such that when the encounter was cut short by a Horsea cropping up at the edge of my map, I felt conflicted about leaving. I gestured toward the Pokémon on my phone, and explained that I had to go get it. “I don’t have a Horsea yet.”“Well, maybe we could go for a coffee sometime? Or catch Pokémon?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It would be fun. Innocuous. The least anxiety-inducing kind of date possible.’ Photograph: Charles Pertwee/REX/Shutterstock“Oh!” Stutter. “Uh.” Stammer. “Sure. Let’s.” Red-faced.I played it cool as he typed his number into my phone with “Pokémon Go Envy Guy” underneath his name, and we parted ways.I caught the Horsea. I named it “Ahhh!” before texting him.Karen North, a professor in digital social media from the USC Annenberg School, was recently quoted in a Wired article on Pokémon Go’s future as a dating app: “It’s perfect as a dating game,” she said. “You meet someone with a common interest, engage in that activity together and get a new challenge for tomorrow and the next day.”Personally, I was fine with the first part: engage in a common interest and activity. It was the second part I had little experience with: tomorrow and the next day. I texted my friend for advice. “If I go on this date, it will be the most millennial thing I have ever done.” Ever the empath, she responded almost instantly: “Do it.”Games are a classic way to get to know someone better, and an increasingly popular option for first dates. As researcher and futurist Jane McGonigal says of building relationships through play: “We like people better after we play a game with them. Even if they’ve beaten us badly. And the reason is, it takes a lot of trust to play a game with someone. We trust that they will spend their time with us, that they will play by the same rules, value the same goal, they’ll stay with the game until it’s finished. And so, playing a game together actually builds up bonds and trust and cooperation. And we actually build stronger social relationships as a result.”Pokémon Go has been helping to build up relationships and quell more existential anxieties, such as Brexit-blues, with its particular blend of childhood charm and positive play, so I decided that date anxiety should be easy enough for it to squash. Pokémon Go Envy Guy (let’s call him Paul) set a time to meet in a nearby park that weekend. We’d get lunch, eat ice cream (vegan, natch) and catch Pokémon. It would be fun. Innocuous. The least anxiety-inducing kind of date possible. Except, of course, for the Gym Battle.Pokémon Go asks its players to side with one of three teams: Valor, Mystic, and Instinct. The competition between the three is fierce, and when Paul tells me he has sided with Valor, I cringe.“You have got to be kidding me,” I say.This makes us rivals from the outset. I fight for Mystic.Pokémon Go: why our dark world needs escapism more than ever “Well, what’s a little friendly competition?” He laughs. “I have a tendency to get a bit more competitive than friendly,” I admit to him. “Despite what my aggressively positive demeanour might suggest.” I gesture to my floral dress for comedic effect. He laughs at the joke, feeble though it may be, which wins him points, and we set off. As we pass a cluster of Pokéstops, an in-game supplier of items and experience points, conversation oscillates comfortably between the Pokémon we’re catching nearby (me: a Clefairy; him: a Gastly) and the books we’re reading (me: Cannery Row; him: The Sellout).We run into other trainers. A bartender for a local pub admits he “should be at work”, but is out making the rounds in the name of Pokémon instead. “Which team are you on?” Paul asks. When he reveals he has yet to pick a side, we laugh and jump at the opportunity to sell our own teams. “Valor,” he says. “The red one!” “No, no,” I start, speaking over him. “Mystic – go blue.”“Oh,” starts the barman. “I’m not going to side with her – we’ve got testosterone, man. I’ll pick whatever team she’s not on.”I bristle.“Excuse me?” I start, and Paul steps in to tell the guy to cool it: “She’s a higher level than I am,” he says, but the other guy shrugs noncommittally and walks off in the opposite direction.Paul and I exchange a look.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Pokémon Go has been helping to build up relationships and quell more existential anxieties, such as Brexit-blues.’ Photograph: Remko de Waal/EPA“I’m used to it,” is all I say, and we carry on.The app encourages us via Pokéstops to walk down paths in the park we’d never been down before, and this is how we stumble across the sundial: a large and imposing sculpture of stone and steel set next to a manmade pond, where lazy Sunday park-goers can rent paddle boats for a spin. At least one of them has their phone out, also playing Pokémon Go.“It’s a gym,” we both say in unison, of the sundial.“It’s Mystic,” Paul says, quickly. “I can take it down.”“I mean, you can try,” I scoff, and we both clamber on top of the sculpture with a childish enthusiasm. I can’t tell if I feel a little silly playing Pokémon on a piece of public art, or if I’m genuinely anxious that a Valor trainer has the potential to overtake my team’s gym.Paul squares his shoulders, and stares down into his phone. I watch as a man in a paddle boat circles the pond behind him. There is a tense silence, and then I watch in abject horror as a previously blue Mystic gym slowly turns a Valor red. I cry out an honest-to-god “No!” and shake my head in disbelief. I send out my Tentacruel, Tentacruelio, to make quick work of Paul’s Pokémon.“Oh, come on, let me have this for like, two seconds,” he says, laughing, but it’s already out of my hands. I’ve won.That I am on a date hardly even crosses my mind. I don’t know if this speaks to how comfortable I am with Paul, or simply reinforces how oblivious I prefer to be in the face of a prospective romance. Perhaps it’s the Pokémon Go magic: a comfortable way to get to know someone and a low-pressure option for a first date. When conversation falters, the Pokémon are there to pick up the slack.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘When conversation falters, the Pokémon are there to pick up the slack.’ Photograph: Getty/Drew AngererAfter another hour of relaxed conversation, the servers crash, and so does my blood sugar. “I think it’s about time for me to head home,” I say. “Besides, the app won’t load for me anymore.”We make tentative plans to see each other again, and as I head home I wonder if without the conceit of a game to play, I will follow through. He is nice, well-educated and witty. He goes to the opera, he has good taste in books. He thinks I’m funny.I get off the train at the station near my flat, and take out my phone. My friend has texted me to ask if my date was a success:“Drowzee in the streets and a Hypno in the sheets?”“Ha ha.”“Will you see him again?”I think for a second and mindlessly tap over to the Pokémon Go app, still running, to mull it over. Will I see him again?That’s when I notice a Valor leader has overtaken my station’s gym.“Oh, for God’s sake.” I say.It’s Paul.