At the start of Buddhafield festival, over 1,500 revellers – many of them non-Buddhists – chant Buddhist mantras in unison. The effect is hysterical, manic: one regular says “it’s as if everyone is on something”.Except they’re most probably not on something. Unlike most other music festivals, Buddhafield is alcohol- and drug-free, with nowhere on site to buy a stiff drink. This reflects the event’s religious code of ethics: the Fifth Precept of Buddhism bans “fermented drink”, which is widely taken to mean all intoxicants. Founded in 1992, the five day event takes place in rural Somerset, in a rented field nestled between a glade and an abandoned second world war airfield. After the opening ritual, Buddhafield proceeds with music, dance, group yoga sessions, permaculture workshops, and even a talk on how we must “love each other or die”. It all makes for a calming weekend, although the event’s organiser, Jayaraja – a northerner whose post-ordination name means “victorious warrior” – says the ban isn’t always easy to enforce. He’s quite serious about curbing substance use on his site. If Jayaraja finds someone smoking a joint or dealing ketamine, he explains the philosophy of the event and asks them to “respect it or leave”. “It’s not necessarily easy to police the event,” Jayaraja tells me on my visit to the site, where the crew are busy setting up. “Some are resistant, but others are fantastic and say that they really like the drug and alcohol-free policy. You want people to come who are in recovery [from alcoholism], but you don’t want to be too heavy with people and say ‘thou shalt not’.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A Bhuddafield ritual. Photograph: John Flemming/Triratna Buddhafield 2015Without alcohol promotions – which most other UK music festivals depend on – ticket prices for Buddhafield have to be kept relatively high at £140. The event is supported financially by a small number of organisations including the Croydon Buddhist Centre.Tom McMahon-Hore, 24, a recent graduate, says: “I find Buddhafield to be a genuinely transformative experience. I’m completely mad for about three weeks after; loving everyone on the train, but being scared of supermarkets.”Rosie, another young festival-goer, agrees: “Everyone really opens up and talks to each other. Without drugs and alcohol, people just try to be authentic.”Organised fun?Other festivals prohibit booze on different grounds. Ferris Cowper, the Conservative district council leader for East Hampshire, founded Butserfest, a heavily-marshalled festival run in Petersfield by his local authority as a “cleaned-up Download festival”. For Cowper, the drinks ban is a matter of health and safety. “We didn’t want mothers, fathers and guardians to feel like they had to escort their children to the festival,” he says. “We wanted to create an event that was so safe that parents would drop their kids off at the entrance, go away for the day, and come back at midnight to pick them up.”How to work for your festival ticket Though it all sounds suspiciously like organised fun, Cowper’s team do get some bigger names, such as You Me at Six and Don Broco. Indeed, resistance comes much less from the event’s punters than from big-name bands, who will sometimes demand a “hospitality package” that includes alcohol.Organisers of teetotal festivals do encounter drinkers who take offence at the prohibitive rules – particularly older people, according to Jason Loftus, who puts on the Sound Recovery festival in Nottingham. Sound Recovery features local music and comedy, and raises money for a local addiction charity run by Loftus, who has personal experience with alcoholism. He also runs a booze-free restaurant in Nottingham, a city with serious problems related to alcohol and violent crime. Loftus takes a dim view at those who scoff at his teetotal policy, calling them “substance-dependent”.“We really wanted to experiment with people’s perceptions of what a music festival is, and say that you don’t have to get ripped off your tits to enjoy yourself,” he says.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The best time I’ve had was at Reading when I was completely sober.’ Photograph: Dean Holden/Triratna BuddhafieldHe’s keen to get young people on board: “Young people are drinking less in this day and age and some are adopting a completely abstinent lifestyle. They’re the individuals who we want to reach out to – it’s not about preaching or messaging but showing that there are alternatives. It’s about choice, it’s up to you.” Seven festival pitfalls and how to avoid them Loftus may have a point; a 2016 study showed that people aged between 16 and 24 are less likely to drink than their elders. Sam Considine, 22, a student at the University of York and a regular festival-goer, says: “People go to festivals to lose themselves; that’s why people take drugs and drink alcohol which are socially acceptable. Yet the best time I’ve had was at Reading when I was completely sober. Even though we were listening to this awful electronic music, something about it was deeply moving.”Jayaraja sees the teetotal festival as a route to a higher purpose. “The individual can get lost in drug-taking habit patterns,” he tells me, sipping from his cup of herbal tea. “Unless there are some higher values or guidelines that can make people question why they’re doing things, people will do them. “The developed world is really searching for meaning and searching for its soul; festivals can be an expression of that.”Keep up with the latest on Guardian Students: follow us on Twitter at @GdnStudents – and become a member to receive exclusive benefits and our weekly newsletter.