“Northerners like to think of themselves as down-to-earth sorts” (Editorial, 4 February). Is the Guardian in a competition with other London papers to win the prize for most patronising editorial of the year? But this does not explain the editorial support for leading council chiefs in northern cities making deals with a Treasury conducting unprecedented attacks on their very being. The deals these chiefs are boasting about locally are made in conditions of extreme power differences between the two sides, so that they are complicit in Treasury planning for an austerity-shrunk British state reneging on its social responsibilities. Stereotyping northerners as culturally different is moving the UK into dangerous watersPeter Taylor To make some sense of this we need to search out similar types of political devolutions in other parts of the world. Two examples come to mind. The first is Reagan’s US devolution under the “states rights” banner that transformed southern states from historic Democrat country to the Republican strongholds they are today. Second, and perhaps the more interesting case, is the South African National party government’s Bantustan policy. Making deals with tribal chiefs, the central government simply withdrew political responsibility for large numbers of South Africans living in these designated areas.Whether the central government considers provincial areas still relevant (Reagan) or irrelevant (National party), in both cases the only local winners were the flattered politicians making the deals. Stereotyping northerners as culturally different is moving the UK into dangerous waters. Peter TaylorTynmouth• The picture of George Osborne with his merry council men signing the Devo Manc deal is very telling (It’s a man’s world, 3 February). But these merry men will not be robbing (or taxing) the rich to give to the poor. The razzmatazz around this and other devolution deals is masking what they have been forced into over the past six years: huge cuts in local budgets because of little-reported changes in the funding formula for local authorities, away from a needs basis to a per capita basis.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hull was only offered a share of £1m in the autumn statement toward its year as city of culture 2017, points out MP Diana Johnson. Above, Holy Trinity church reflected in office windows. Photograph: AlamyThe impact on some northern cities has been enormous. The money that Sheffield has for its discretionary use (ie that is not already earmarked) has been reduced from £600m five year ago to £300m this financial year, with a further £50m cut this coming year. Liverpool has seen a similar 57% cut in discretionary spending. Compare this with the meagre £30m a year promised in the Sheffield city region deal, to cover infrastructure developments across nine local authorities.This is the reality of what you report as “more control over spending and resources” and “budgets worth billions of pounds to new city regions and combined local authorities”. Impoverished councils feel they have no choice but to accept the crumbs from the table. And those much vaunted extra powers are tied up with all kinds of restrictions and requirements and government guidelines. Overall, the power and influence of Westminster has increased. Vicky SeddonSheffield• Your editorial is right. Only deeds will change perceptions about the north and realise its economic and other potential. Hull’s experience is a classic example of those that seem to be overlooked and have to fight to be heard. The chancellor recently announced £150m for London museums, £141m for arts and cultural developments at London’s Olympic Park and £100m for a new Royal College of Arts campus in Battersea. The same autumn statement allocated a share in £1m for Hull’s year as national city of culture in 2017. The largesse flows from the poorest parts of the north to the wealthiest parts of the southDiana Johnson MP We heard last week that there’s also £3.5m for a helter-skelter at the Olympic Park, while Hull was recently turned down for £5m towards refurbishing Hull New Theatre. Hull’s bid to bring Amy Johnson’s historic plane, Jason, to her city of birth, to mark 75 years since her death, was turned down by London’s Science Museum, which had developed its flight gallery to make it difficult to move the plane out of London. This comes at the same time as we learnt of Bradford losing its Royal Photography Society collection to London’s V&A. When the playing fields of Eton were flooded in 2014, money was no object, but it was when crucial flood schemes were cut in the north from 2010.While Hull has years of Whitehall delay to our rail electrification scheme, even though it is privately financed, a walk round the gleaming new Crossrail station at Canary Wharf shows where investment remains focused. Whether it is council or other funding, Whitehall jobs or infrastructure investment, the largesse flows from the poorest parts of the north to the wealthiest parts of the south – despite all the talk of rebalancing the economy.Diana Johnson MPLabour, Hull North• So Sheffield is the sixth happiest city to work in (Report, 2 February)? Try telling that to the 250 civil servants in the Sheffield office of the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills who have just been told that the office is being closed and their jobs moved to London and if they want to keep them, they have to move too. Really? With civil service salaries being what they are and London house prices being what they are? What price the northern powerhouse, Mr Osborne?Caroline LucasSheffield