Swimming in the river Waveney on a sunny afternoon last weekend, it was difficult not to think of my good friend and neighbour Roger Deakin who died 10 years ago next Friday.Roger was an unusual man – wild, strong, uncompromising in the way he lived his life, with a sharp curiosity about nature and people. He was terrific, funny company and a loyal friend. With his first book, Waterlog, subtitled “A swimmer’s journey through Britain”, he found the perfect form for his view of the world: clear-eyed; subversive; informed; full of a sense of wonder but with a tug of melancholy beneath the surface of the prose.The book’s originality and charm found many readers, and Roger, who was never a vain man, reacted to its success with startled pleasure, rather as if an otter had made a surprise appearance at his moat.It seemed that a great, late-blooming literary career lay ahead of him, but he died from a brain tumour before his second book, Wildwood, was published. A book based on his notebooks, Notes from Walnut Tree Farm, was brought out in 2008.Soon after his death, it became clear that it was not just Roger’s writing that appealed to readers across the world; it was his character, his attitude to the environment, the way he lived, what he was thought to represent.Essays and editorials were published in praise of him. He was said to be a pioneer of something called “new nature writing”. A one-man play about him was written. There was talk of a book – “not so much a biography as a celebration”.Then there was the backlash. There have been brutally funny parodies of the style of writing Roger is thought to have influenced. New nature has been dismissed as a marketing wheeze.Maybe this grim process of chatter and myth-making is inevitable when a distinctive writer dies before his or her time. It must have happened with Plath, Chatwin, Foster Wallace and others. But the effect it has is to smooth off the interesting rough corners of a life, replacing a real, complicated person with a shiny icon. It is my small personal wish that Roger’s books will be read by even more people over the next decade, but without the attendant noise and silliness of literary celebrity.