Since 2002, Sharon Jones and the Dap-Kings have become one of the most important contemporary bands still flying the flag for the soul sounds of the 70s. But three years ago their momentum was abruptly upturned when Jones was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. This is right when the Oscar-winning film-maker Barbara Kopple (Harlan County, USA) began shadowing Jones, following the singer over the next year during her treatment, recovery and attempt to return to the studio and stage. That documentary, Miss Sharon Jones, debuts in theaters this month, and the Guardian recently spoke with Jones while she’s been on tour, opening for Hall & Oates, even as she continues to battle cancer. New imprint brings Daptone Records' soul to analog rock'n'roll How are you feeling? I take it one day at a time. The chemo is more or less taking a toll on me. We’ve got to find something else other than that because it’s so painful, my legs crumble. I can’t take that.How are you able to continue performing through all of this? Right before I get on that stage, it’s like something comes over me and the pain goes away. I guess the adrenaline just gets going and, you know, your body’s just like, “Well, you know: here we go!”One of the earliest scenes shows you getting your braids cut off, before you begin chemo. What was it like letting a film crew record your most vulnerable moments?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharon Jones at the Beacon Theater in New York. Photograph: Jacob/Jacob BlickenstaffThat was a low blow, and they captured that. Every time I see it, I cry. It’s pretty deep. You just accept it. You have to accept it. You have to know they’re there. With the guys in the band, I had to tell them, in the long run, they’re doing this for us. We’re not doing them a favor, we’re doing ourselves a favor. They’re capturing a story here, so let’s just do this here with some love, and that’s what happened.Even though this is your story, you entrusted Kopple to tell it. What did you think when you say the final cut? They got it right. They got exactly what they went for. I always felt like I have a story, and it really told the story, about what I went through, what the band went through. You’ve got to realize, it was the first time I was going to be away from my fans for such a long time … and then to come back to them bald and looking like a whole other person would have been a shock. So I was like, just let my fans see the battle I’m taking. I want them to be part of it, like when I’m on that stage, I make them part of the band. They become part of the show. You’ve worked with some of the band members for 20 years. How have those relationships changed over that time? You watch them grow. Like, I met my drummer, Homer [Steinweiss], when he was 16 years old. Now, they’re all in their 30s and 40s. We’ve become like hands fitting in a glove. I’ll be onstage and I will call something we’ve never done before, and they’re right there with me, and people don’t realize that. Every night it’s different; I’ll sing a song hundreds of times, but each night it’s just a different flavor with a different flow. It’s just the way it is when you’re that long with people. As long as I can get on the stage and show some energy, I’m going to get on the stage until I can’t do it any more During the film, we find out some of the band members struggle to get by financially because they can no longer tour. Was it difficult for you to worry about your own recovery but also how your bandmates were getting by?I didn’t know the full effect of those months [I was in treatment/recovery] until I saw the film and what everyone went through. No one was calling me up and saying, “I lost my apartment because I couldn’t afford the rent.” I didn’t know those things. It was a struggle, but we stuck together as a family. Not only did I want to get back together and work because our money is in our performing but I had to do that for my own wellbeing, just to get back out there. That’s therapy. There’s the therapy of performing and there’s the cancer therapy you’re still going through. You stopped touring during your original treatment period but you’re performing this time. Why? My body’s going through changes, but I don’t want to sit home and wait for this to take over me. As long as I can get on the stage and show some energy, I’m going to get on the stage until I can’t do it any more.For the film’s soundtrack, you and the band recorded a new song entitled I’m Still Here. It’s not only your most autobiographical song but the title also seems to be a forceful statement of purpose.When I was 57 and I was diagnosed with cancer, I didn’t think I would see my 58th birthday. So that’s why I say, “I’m still here.” I’m 60 now, so 60 years came along and I’m still here!Miss Sharon Jones is out on limited release in New York from 29 July and Los Angeles on 5 August