There are those that believe filming The Revenant was an exercise in endurance for Leonardo DiCaprio, designed to show the Academy voters just how many gruesome things he’s prepared to endure to finally get his hands on that Oscar. But, if The Revenant is Oscar bait, it’s also baiting the Oscars. Alejandro González Iñárritu’s film is a pointed tribute to all of Leo’s most memorable acting work, slipped snugly into a single film like a man cocooned in a horse’s carcass. Look closely: you may begin to feel a creeping sense of déjà vu …Titanic      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Titanic (1997): director James Cameron, Leo, Kate Winslet, and a raft. Photograph: Allstar/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarIn The Revenant we see Hugh Glass’s dying body on a raft that we hope will carry him to safety while he shivers helplessly. The one who loves him most pleads with anyone who will listen to keep him alive. When they are ripped apart, in a twist of fate colder than any winter, the poor guy ends up drifting through some beautifully framed shots in the icy water, alone and frozen. Shutter Island      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leo and Mark Ruffalo in Shutter Island (2009). Photograph: Allstar/Paramount Pictures/Sportsphoto Ltd.Poor Glass (Leo) was unable to save his wife and children. So he takes shelter from the storm and decides to avenge their deaths. He commits to the cause no matter what the cost to his own sense of self. No amount of killing will bring his loved ones back. Inception      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inception (2010). Photograph: Melissa Moseley/APAlone and cold, he becomes a lonely man who can take comfort only in his sleep. Fortunately, he can still visit his family in his haunting and vivid dreams, so we take comfort in the dream … or in the dream, within the dream, within the dream… within that other movie.The Wolf of Wall Street Leo crawls in The Wolf of Wall Street (2013). At risk of losing everything he has worked so hard for, all Glass has left is the will to survive. He’ll do whatever it takes. Which in this case is… crawl. Just like Jordan Belfort on Quaaludes, he must drag his resistant body once again towards his goal … The Beach      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leo in another forest in The Beach (2000). Photograph: imagenetGlass faces isolation from his tribe after being exiled from the place and family he has travelled so far to find. Left for dead in the wilderness, fighting for survival and losing whatever is left of his mind. The paradox of the narrative, and possibly of winning an award too, being that once he finally makes his way to his people, he might come to see that it is just as lonely, if not more so, once you finally get on the inside...The Departed      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leo, Ray Winstone and Jack Nicholson in The Departed (2006). Photograph: c.Warner Br/Everett/Rex FeaturesOscars 2016: the winners and losers on the campaign trail The poor, marginalised guy has tried putting his faith in law enforcement before, but the further into it he delves the more he learns that any institution is always as corrupt as the people who run it. He can’t trust the law to keep him safe. Scorsese would be proud to see that Glass chooses to take matters (and a gun) into his own hands.Exhausted from this emotional, intertextual and subliminal journey through Leo’s body of work, we sadly have very little room left to feel compassion for that poor bear who, judging by Glass’s coat and hat, may well have been on a revenge mission of her own.If DiCaprio does win the Oscar, look out for the knowing look he and Iñárritu give each other: he didn’t win it for this one performance. He won it for all of the ones before it. And if they pull it off… great. They will have created a beautifully shot, stunningly acted inter-textual tribute. A long montage of DiCaprio’s greatest hits that the academy voters have gobbled up like bison liver. 