My mother, Mary Welsh, who has died aged 88, inspired thousands of people to walk the wilds of Scotland and northern England and appreciate their flora and fauna, through her numerous books and published articles. While Alfred Wainwright guided walkers up high fells, Mary described walks that explored less visited lower slopes, moorlands and valleys, often covering three or four different habitats in one circular route and providing views of famed peaks from little-known vantage points.Mary’s first book, A Country Journal: The Diary of a Cumbrian Naturalist (1982), chronicled her wonder as she settled into the Lake District village of Broughton-in-Furness, to which she had moved from Islington, north London, a few years before. Her last, Walking Fife: The Ochils, Tayside and the Forth Valley, was published in 2012. She wrote 38 books and 12 substantial booklets, which together sold more than 200,000 copies.Mary was driven by her enthusiasm for others to share her love of nature. From a brief burst of song, she could identify a bird, whether it was a male or female, young or mature, looking for a mate or defending its territory. She particularly loved Scotland, and treasured the woodpeckers in her garden and the signs of spring, the first cuckoos and daffodils.There were books on walks to waterfalls, along canals and for children, across northern England. Her magnum opus, however, was written between 1989 and 2012 and consisted of 21 books covering every corner of Scotland in a series called Walking Scotland. Each volume contains 40 walks, and she hiked 6,000 miles, with friends and family, to complete the series.Mary was a writer for the Kendal-based Westmorland Gazette, contributing 692 columns over many years. She also wrote over various periods for the Times, the Daily Express, Country Walking, Lakeland Walker, Cumbria, the Lancashire Telegraph and the Big Issue in the North. Her last walk appeared in the December 2016 edition of Country Walking.Mary grew up in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, the third child of Walter Croker, a school bus driver, and his wife, Ethel (nee Goodenough), a seamstress. In 1942 she went to Watford Technical and Art Institute for two years before attending Watford grammar school for girls. She then went to Furzedown Training College, south London, in 1946 to train as a biology teacher. Over the next four decades she taught in secondary schools in London, including for six years at Chandos secondary modern school, Stanmore, and Cumbria, retiring in 1991 from John Ruskin school in Coniston, where she taught from 1979.In her childhood, she had loved exploring the countryside. She met her future husband, Tom Welsh, who became a Guardian journalist and editor of Essential Law for Journalists, while youth hostelling in Devon in 1947, and they married in 1954. They made their first home in Kendal, where my father was working on the Westmorland Gazette as a trainee reporter.Tom died in 2014. Mary is survived by her four children, Cheryl, Sarah, John and me, and six grandsons.