January feels like a long time ago. During the month, in the lead-up to Sundance and the Oscars, there was a constant stream of articles about #OscarsSoWhite and the fact that for the second year in a row there were no actors of color nominated for the main awards. Step forward Nate Parker and his passion project The Birth of a Nation, a film that took him seven years to make and is a far from historically accurate portrayal of the rebel slave Nat Turner. It quickly became an award winner and a record setter when it was bought by Fox Searchlight for $17.5m. Amid the five-star reviews and the fever that surrounded the film – including a standing ovation before it had even been screened – it seemed this film would solve the problems. It wouldn’t.‘It’s impossible to be vulnerable’: how Moonlight reflects being a black gay man in the US At Sundance, it was the toast of the festival, serving as a convenient palate cleanser to take away the bad taste that #OscarsSoWhite had brought to the event. It was easy for critics to overlook the fact the film just wasn’t that good in order to use it as an instant rebuttal and quick fix for a problem that is much more ingrained. But when the revelations about Parker’s rape case from 1999 began to be reported, suddenly supporters stepped away from the film and reviews at the time of its release became lukewarm at best. It was no longer the buzzy Oscar contender it had been in January. Now it was a hubristic cautionary tale about what happens when guilt drives critical faculties.These films serve a purpose for Hollywood, and the reception The Birth of a Nation received pulls that into sharp focus. There’s the same complacency and eye-rolling undercurrent to some of the coverage accompanying Barry Jenkins’ film Moonlight. A hastily changed headline for one outlet originally ran: “Academy members looking to address OscarSoWhite will be all over Moonlight”, while another took the time to point out that white people can also relate to a film about black gay love. The former shows that for many within the industry, films from ethnic minorities or about issues outside the few Hollywood mainly focuses on are still seen as token. Others made the case that any push toward a more diverse Hollywood could leave everyone’s favorite stars out in the cold.Moonlight absolutely deserves its five-star reviews; it is an incredible piece of film-making with a complex narrative that shifts between time, location and feel to create something completely unique. It’s a film that has triggered some of the best cultural writing this year (as well as some of the aforementioned worst), brought a world few have ever seen on the big screen to the forefront, and is well on its way to becoming the most successful independent film of the year. If it doesn’t get Oscar nominations, there will be outcry, but if it does there’s the potential that it will become this year’s black film: a useful example for critics of the #OscarsSoWhite hashtag to hold up as evidence of how far the industry has come in only 12 months. Indeed, for some, Moonlight has clearly filled that inconvenient hole as the one black film that needs to be in the running. All this while films by or starring Asian or Hispanic talent are nowhere to be found in the race.Oscars whitewash: why have 2015's red carpets been so overwhelmingly white? Recently, there’s been an incredible run of movies produced by directors and actors of color. Ava DuVernay’s 13th eloquently laid bare the racism at the heart of the US prison system; Fences will bring August Wilson’s Pulitzer-winning play to the big screen; while Loving tells the story of mixed-race marriage and those states which opposed it. Hidden Figures shines light on a forgotten story from the Space Race era, OJ: Made in America reminded everyone about who OJ Simpson was (and what made him that way), and I’m Not Your Negro gives James Baldwin some of the attention he deserves. But don’t forget that last year people were equally hopeful for Creed, Concussion, Straight Outta Compton and Beast of No Nation. Will Hollywood make room for these films this time around or will movies about Tinseltown itself, American triumphalism or something as vanilla as Brooklyn win out, again? The changes the Academy has made, led by Cheryl Boone Isaacs, to bring in twice as many new voters as last year, many of whom are women and people of color, has an eye on the future of the institution’s voting habits. It’s been fought all the way, too. But bringing that change to an organization so set in its ways and traditions is a long-term project. Regardless of what happens this year, the real measure of success will be when the industry and Academy recognizes these projects consistently and where more than one “non-mainstream film” has a place at the table.