Arctic Live8pm, BBC2For three chilly nights this week, Simon Reeve, Kate Humble and veteran wildlife cameraman Gordon Buchanan will be broadcasting live from Churchill – a tiny Canadian town where polar bears sometimes outnumber the residents – to illuminate the unique challenges of surviving at the top of the world. Expect it to be tundra-enlightening and – with sobering dispatches from the frontlines of global warming in Greenland and Alaska – very, very frightening. Graeme VirtueThe Choir: Gareth’s Best in Britain9pm, BBC2Gareth Malone undertakes a nation-spanning quest to find the UK’s most entertaining amateur choir. The award-winning choirmaster starts the series with a search for the finest choral collective from Scotland and the north. After considering hundreds of contenders, tonight’s regional finalists include a cancer-care choir from Manchester, singing mothers from Durham and an assembly of soulful singers from Edinburgh. Mark Gibbings-JonesStoryville: Chasing Asylum – Inside Australia’s Detention Camps9pm, BBC4Australia’s refugee policy, captured by the stark slogan “Stop the boats”, is under severe pressure amid a series of leaks. This horrifying documentary sheds more light on how far successive governments have gone. People seeking asylum have been taken to fetid detention camps, where – as suggested by secret filming and whistle-blower testimony – conditions are beyond appalling. Jack SealeMe and My Mental Illness10pm, Channel 5People who have suffered from mental illnesses talk to camera about their experiences. It makes no difference whether you’re Frank Bruno, Alastair Campbell or 24-year-old Chloe (all interviewed here), anyone be can be laid very low. The show follows an arc more graceful than the actual lived experience: from a realisation that something is up, to a lowest ebb, and gradually out of the other side. Impressively, we still see the people not the illness. John RobinsonEducating Joey Essex: The American Reem9pm, ITV2The cheerfully clueless Essex returns for an entertaining three-part look at the USA, kicking off in New York and Washington, where he’s learning about politics. Although his referendum specials showed that Joey doesn’t have the foggiest about UK politics, let alone international affairs, he does his best to keep up as writer Carrie Sheffield offers a primer and vloggers Diamond and Silk try to convince him of Trump’s merits. Hannah J DaviesWestworld9pm, Sky AtlanticThis TV adaptation of the 1973 sci-fi movie of the same name is showing every sure sign of living up to its hype and initial promise; it’s technically immaculate, beautifully told and profoundly relevant to our own age of AI anxiety. Tonight, Delores and William find themselves on a perilous mission in Pariah, a town built on decadence and transgression, while Ed Harris’s craggy Man in Black takes on an ally as he continues his mission to unlock The Maze. David StubbsDamned 10pm, Channel 4Jo Brand and Morwenna Banks’s beautifully bittersweet comedy of life at Elm Heath children’s services department concludes with Denise intent on laying down the law. Cases must be closed and “there will be a head count” to make sure nobody skives off; bad news for Al, who needs to leave early for a mini-break in Paris. Meantime, Rose and Nitin investigate a report that a baby has been abandoned in Superbrands; bound to be a “prank baby” … right? Jonathan WrightFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Susan Stephen and Kenneth Connor in Carry On Nurse. Photograph: Allstar/Anglo/Sportsphoto LtdCarry On Nurse, (Gerald Thomas, 1959), 5.15pm, Film4As second in the long-running series of naughty comedies (they did it 28 times!), this was the first to gather all those seaside-postcard characters. Down at Haven hospital the chaps in stripey pyjamas (Kenneth Williams, Kenneth Connor, Charles Hawtrey, Leslie Phillips) are revolting – against fearsome matron Hattie Jacques. A great stream of silly jokes and, like nurse Shirley Eaton, irresistible. Paul HowlettLive sportTennis: The Paris Masters Coverage of the second day at the AccorHotels Arena in Paris. 10am, Sky Sports 1Champions League football: Manchester City v Barcelona City will fancy some payback after their chastening recent visit to the Camp Nou. 7pm, BT Sport 2