There must be more to it than just good luck. Over the past four decades, the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra has established a reputation for selecting the right conductors to become its music directors at exactly the right moment in their careers, a record that any orchestra in the world would envy.The success story began in 1980 with the arrival of the 25-year-old Simon Rattle, who took over the reins in Birmingham after a turbulent period in the orchestra’s history, during which the previous chief conductor Louis Fremaux had left precipitately. Rattle stayed in Birmingham for 18 years, in which time his reputation and that of the orchestra grew exponentially. Sakari Oramo then followed him and was there for a decade, while Andris Nelsons stepped down last summer after seven seasons during which he rose to the very top of the conducting tree. It all adds up to a succession of conductors who were little, if at all, known internationally when they made their debuts with the orchestra, but whose careers blossomed during their time in the city, and who have continued to prosper ever since.It’s too early, of course, to be sure that the CBSO has repeated the trick with the appointment of 29-year-old Lithuanian-born Mirga Gražinytė-Tyla. But it was clear from her concert in Symphony Hall last month that she had already established an excellent rapport with the orchestra, which resulted in performances of crisp detail and real dramatic presence, while reports from the US west coast, where she has been assistant conductor with the LA Philharmonic, have been glowing too.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Excellent rapport … Mirga Gražinytė-TylaAnd though Nelsons was always going to be a hard act to follow, the way in which the orchestra has handled the appointment has been very sensible. If it did Oramo no favours to have to take over immediately when Rattle stepped down in 1998, so that it took him a couple of seasons to stamp his distinctive musical personality on the orchestra and its programming, the process of Nelsons’ successor has been a more measured one. When Gražinytė-Tyla takes up the reins in September there will have been a whole season’s interregnum, so that in orchestral terms, the new music director will effectively have a blank slate to work on. Which all suggests that the CBSO might have got it exactly right once again.