Horizon: Sports Doping – Winning At Any Cost? 8pm, BBC2Given the sacrifice required to succeed in sport legitimately, we should probably be less surprised when athletes prove willing to run the risks – physical as well as ethical – that accompany the use of performance-enhancing drugs. Dr Xand van Tulleken investigates modern manifestations of doping, the hazards along with the ill-gotten benefits, and looks at the future of such chicanery, including tampering with the genes that control muscle growth. Andrew MuellerThe Living and the Dead 9pm, BBC1As the gothic period drama from Life On Mars creator Ashley Pharoah continues, Nathan comes to the aid of teacher Martha (Utopia’s Fiona O’Shaughnessy), who claims to have been assaulted by Jack Langtree. Moreover, she tells the psychologist that Langtree has kidnapped a teenage girl, Alice, and plans to elope with her. Although the rural creepiness is laid on thick, this is pretty slow, unchallenging supernatural fare. Hannah J DaviesThe Job Interview 9pm, Channel 4Ordinary people revealing their hopes and vulnerabilities under pressure is the selling point of a series that seems unremarkable on the surface. Cameras capture a veterinary surgery interviewing for potential receptionists and a training company hiring an administrator. Get past some scenes where watching weak applicants fail is cruel sport and there are plenty of moments where we’re movingly reminded of how daunting and demoralising it can feel to be a jobseeker. Jack SealeThe Search For The Lost Manuscript: Julian of Norwich9pm, BBC4“God is the goodness that cannot be angry, for he is nothing but goodness.” Dr Janina Ramirez explores the life of 14th-century mystic and feminist icon Julian of Norwich, “the mother of English prose”, whose vilified and heretical Revelations of Divine Love – the first female-penned book in the history of English literature – was, against the odds, kept alive by successive women down the ages. Ali CatterallTaskmaster 10pm, DaveIn the last in the series of Taskmaster, Greg Davies’s taskees have all to play for, with an overall series winner set to be crowned out of contestants Doc Brown, Jon Richardson, Katherine Ryan, Joe Wilkinson and Richard Osman. Among this week’s tasks are transporting a range of groceries over a small river and into a shopping trolley, and making a stop-motion film starring a potato. To the victor, the spoils, which includes a golden bust of Davies’s head. Ben ArnoldAgatha Raisin 9pm, Sky1Are foul deeds afoot when Agatha alights incognito at an ominous hotel far from Carsley? Or is her anonymity more to do with the desire to hide a truly calamitous hairdon’t from the rest of the village? Where Raisin roams, foul deeds have a habit of following, and soon there’s an unfortunate end for Wyckhaddon’s local witch. With a local constabulary reluctant to remove Agatha from their list of suspects, Team Raisin arrive to help unravel the murderous misdeed. Mark Gibbings-JonesBrexageddon?! 10pm, BBC2From a satirical point of view, there are two ways of looking at the EU referendum aftermath. The first is that it’s an inexhaustible goldmine. The second is that its absurdities render mockery redundant. Still, even if it’s a pointless job, someone might as well do it. Enter Heydon Prowse and Jolyon Rubinsten, the prank-happy pair behind The Revolution Will Be Televised. Remainers and Leavers alike should expect a righteous kicking. Phil HarrisonFILMVideodrome (David Cronenberg, 1983), 12.50am, Horror ChannelIn this vintage Cronenberg biotech-horror, James Woods is seedy TV presenter Max Renn, plugging himself into a subversive show called Videodrome, which seems to show real acts of torture. But he can’t be sure because the channel messes with people’s minds. Blondie’s Debbie Harry is his masochistic partner in a witty-yukky meditation on people, sex, media and technology.SPORTT20 Blast Cricket: Nottingham Steelbacks v Birmingham Bears. From the County Ground. 6pm, Sky Sports 2. Darts: World Matchplay. Day four from Blackpool’s Winter Gardens as the tournament heads into the second round of matches. 7pm, Sky Sports 3Tennis: ATP Tour. The men’s tour heads to Washington DC for the Citi Open. 9pm, Sky Sports 4