Sannie Carlson (Whigfield), singerI studied fashion design in Copenhagen, then decided to go to Milan and show the Italians how it’s done. That didn’t work out. I ended up scraping by, doing modelling by day and PR for clubs at night. One of the club DJs, Davide Riva, was part of a music production duo. He persuaded me to sing for them.For years, nobody was interested. It’s not easy being told your music is shit. By the mid-1990s, I was just about to quit when they came up with Saturday Night. It wasn’t my kind of music, but it at least sounded unlike everything else around at the time. ‘Wet Wet Wet said they were glad it knocked Love Is All Around off No 1. Yeah, right’ I’m the first to admit I’m no Maria Callas. I’d only ever sung in school. We must have done over 20 takes, then they just painstakingly spliced the best bits together. The song is like a nursery rhyme, with lyrics about what girls do when they’re getting ready to go out, and about getting hot when they’re out dancing. I named myself Whigfield after my old music teacher.The song took ages to take off. I remember someone telling me: “I hated it at first, but now it’s stuck in my head.” People would hear it and start whistling it. Then suddenly labels right across Europe wanted it. In Britain, it went straight to No 1, knocking Wet Wet Wet’s Love Is All Around off the top after 15 weeks. They said they were glad because they were fed up being No 1. Yeah right.I got a platinum disc, was asked to present Top of the Pops and, at one point, owned two houses in the same street in Barcelona. But not everybody liked the song. I was insulted a lot and had beer thrown at me on stage. But I still get calls even now, just because of Saturday Night. These days, I perform hip house music as Sannie and cheesy bubblegum pop as Whigfield. Saturday Night always goes down a storm.Alfredo ‘Larry’ Pignagnoli, songwriterIt started with just the drums and the bass. Davide was the musician and I spent three days writing the lyrics. It was a very simple song that we thought would work in clubs and on radio. Calling it Saturday Night felt right since it was so happy and upbeat. The famous “Dee dee na na na” bit that Whigfield says at the beginning started as a joke. We were testing some variations on the melody at the end of the song and loved that bit so much we decided to make it the initial hook.A Spanish company – actually two guys from a record store – released the track initially. The story goes that an aerobics instructor in Valencia came across it in a record shop and created a funny dance for it. His class of holiday-makers all did it on the beach and, after their holiday was over and they’d all gone home, they asked DJs in clubs to play it, so they could do the funny dance again. As the dance gained popularity, so did the song – and once it became a hit in Spain, everything snowballed.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We were unsuccessfully sued by the Equals, who claimed we’d copied Rub a Dub Dub, and Lindisfarne, who said the same about Fog on the Tyne. I’d never even heard of Lindisfarne, let alone their song, but that’s how the world works. I totally understand why Saturday Night is the ultimate love-it-or-hate-it number, though. People love it because it’s happy, simple and repetitive. And they hate it for exactly the same reasons.• Sannie’s latest single, In the Morning, is out now.