If you haven’t heard the music of Ludovico Einaudi, then it’s probably because you don’t know it’s by Ludovico Einaudi. For years, his muted piano music has been stealthily soundtracking TV shows and adverts, seeping into our collective consciousness while the mild-mannered Italian behind it stayed out of the limelight. In fact, read up on Einaudi and he can seem less a composer and more a head-spinning bundle of stats, each one testifying to a reach far beyond that of most of his classical peers.Just consider this: he’s the most streamed classical artist in the world; he recently occupied all of the top 10 positions on the iTunes classical singles chart; he has 400,000 followers on Spotify, which is more than Beethoven. Fans include Nicki Minaj, Iggy Pop, Ricky Gervais, pianist Lang Lang and – who else? – Stoke City striker Jonathan Walters, who claims he listens to Einaudi in order to get into the zone before heading out on to the pitch.Watch Ludovico Einaudi's Taranta video So even if you haven’t bought his new album, Elements (and many have – it recently reached No 12 on the UK charts, a higher placing than any classical composer has managed in two decades), you may still have stumbled across his work. Perhaps soundtracking This Is England, or on an X Factor montage, or backing a British Airways or Guinness or Santander ad. His music has been played live everywhere from the Royal Albert Hall to Fabric nightclub, and he has been remixed by Mogwai and Starkey. Most surprising of all, perhaps, is the fact that, at 60 years of age, he’s somehow managed to infiltrate the youth-obsessed BBC Radio 1 playlist – not only is Einaudi championed by DJ Greg James (who cited his meditative track I Giorni as a vital study aid during his university days), but he was invited in to play a Live Lounge session, transforming Sam Smith’s I’m Not the Only One and Sia’s Elastic Heart into an ambient medley.It might seem unbelievable that a man who looks like a more stylish Larry David and plays unobtrusive piano music has captured such a youthful audience – until you witness the reactions he inspires in the flesh. When I head to Florence to see him play Elements live at the Teatro Verdi, there are many unique things about the show – the use of instruments such as a waterphone, for instance – but perhaps the most striking is that the crowd in this 19th-century hall wouldn’t look out of place at an Arctic Monkeys gig.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “All my life, my heart has felt closer to rock’n’roll,” says Einaudi, who studied with Luciano Berio and Karlheinz Stockhausen. It’s a statement somewhat at odds with today’s setting – sipping tea in a grand hotel suite, while Einaudi calmly considers each question. He has an aura of stillness, but this shouldn’t be confused with taciturnity – once he gets going, he likes to talk, as a 10-minute monologue on the intricacies of building his home studio attests. “I think there is a rigidity [in classical music],” he says. “And I don’t like too much the academic environment.”Does he think his high sales and streaming figures have prompted the classical world to turn their noses up at him? “Yes, I think that’s all seen as a negative,” he says. “It’s ridiculous, but I don’t mind. I don’t crave acceptance in the classical world.”This rebellious spirit seems to have come from his 1960s childhood, during which his mother’s more formal musical teachings were offset by the electrifying tunes his sisters were playing: Jimi Hendrix, or Rubber Soul and Revolver by the Beatles.“For me, this was the world that was really connecting to me musically, and also spiritually and artistically,” he says. “Of course it was a time of revolution in the schools. But it was not just everyone screaming about Mao Zedong. People were reacting against a formal world that they didn’t want to have any more. It was a revolution of the mind, and it was expressed in music.”Einaudi says school was a “disaster” for him. “It felt very rigid,” he says. I didn’t have any connection with the teachers. I hated them, they hated me. I tried different schools, but my interest was in music and photography. It was the time of Blow-Up by Antonioni. I wanted to be a rocker and photographer and tour the world!”You can certainly see why he has never been comfortable being boxed in as a “classical” composer. But his music doesn’t sound particularly rebellious; it’s gentle and soothing, reminiscent of composers such as Nils Frahm. And he’s not exactly a hellraiser – the new album was born out of hours spent in libraries across Italy, reading Greek philosophy and Wassily Kandinsky and studying the periodic table, rather than a blur of Jack Daniel’s and amphetamines.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest So why does he attract such a youthful crowd? Einaudi believes it’s because he tries to harness the same feelings of joy, loss, desire and frustration that you might find in even the most stripped-back folksongs. “I want to have this directness in my music.” He cites the work of Portishead and Radiohead – even the “theatrical pieces” of Eminem – as music that connects with today’s emotions more readily than the classical composers of the past. He also thinks there’s a meditative value to his work that young people can tune into.“I was completely anxious when I was young,” he says, which is hard to imagine, given his Zen-like manner. “A concert can become a collective meditation. When the concert is going well, I can feel it on stage. Everyone in the crowd can find their space, and I feel a sort of beneficial effect.”While Einaudi credits his mother and sisters for his musical influences, a look at his backstory reveals other things that may help to explain how he became the artist he is. His grandfather was president of Italy shortly after the second world war (“He was an economist, and a liberal, but he died when I was six, so I didn’t know him so well”), and his father was a renowned publisher, who worked with Italo Calvino and Primo Levi and moved within leftwing intellectual circles.Ludovico Einaudi: Taranta Project review – Italian, North African and Turkish folk fusions Einaudi claims he is “not obsessed by politics”, but the more I hear his stories, the more I think his music carries an inherent message. He talks about rehearsing in his hometown of Turin with his door wide open, and being thrilled to hear people applauding in the streets. He says it’s important, when making music, to establish a relationship with everyone, from the person playing triangle to the electricians who help set up the studio. And he admits to being more impressed when ushers in a theatre have connected with his music than he is about the critics.“Yes! I like the feeling that with music there are no classes,” he says. “I remember in Verona when I performed in 1995 and a younger woman who worked in the theatre came up to me with wet eyes – that was more important than all the rest! Because I could see the connection between what I wanted to say with my music and how she felt it. This was fantastic for me.”Einaudi’s embrace of populism – his desire to touch as many lives as possible – seems to be a political statement, especially coming from someone who operates within elitist classical circles. I end by asking if he finds his popularity addictive, and he readily accepts it.“I have to say honestly – if you do an album and it goes to No 1 in the charts, then of course you are happy!”And if it’s a flop?“Then you are not happy,” he says, smiling. “The response from the listeners is what gives you energy.”• Elements is out now. Einaudi tours the UK from 8-20 March and his new Piano Concerto will be premiered in Liverpool on 10 March.