Past midnight, down by the LA River, a tagger puts the finishing touches on the image of a tiki hut surrounded by palms. The idyllic island scene stands in ironic contrast to the dry cement lakebed, chain link, trash and downtown skyline on the other side. When a homeless man approaches with a warning – “The police!” – the tagger throws his spray can down and calmly walks away. But when the cops catch up with him he has a hard time explaining the paint on his hands and clothes.“C’mon, just tell us you were painting and it will be all right,” they demand. “I kept denying, denying, denying, denying,” remembers Skid Robot, the street artist in question. “They went back to the painting and they looked at each other and shrugged their shoulders, like what the hell is this? Had I been a name, or gang tagging – instead they were looking at a tiki hut with palm trees. They thought it was ridiculous and let me go.”He doesn’t necessarily see it as a seminal event, but this is a story that contains all the elements of Skid Robot, an anonymous graffiti artist who, since 2013, has been working amid Skid Row, the nucleus of downtown LA’s homeless community. The city’s homeless population has surged 12% in the past two years, with 44,000 countywide – the highest in the US.Robot meets me at a downtown corner on a sunny winter morning and we drive around looking for some of his art, which has been assiduously erased from the area, sometimes overnight. South along the 110, by the Coliseum, we stop where a tent sits in front of a mural of an alpine scene. Nearby are a mattress, boxes and trash, but most of all more tents lined up to and around the corner where several RVs are parked.His first piece in the homeless community came about one day when was parked at a red light with a girlfriend. She pointed to a woman sleeping by a wall and suggested he paint a thought bubble over her head with a moneybag inside. Others on Skid Row have awakened to find a house on the wall behind them, or a regal throne behind the chair they’re sleeping in: as well as drawing attention to the plight of homeless people, the work expresses their hopes and needs.“When I would share the art with people, their reaction to it was exactly what you look for as an artist,” says Robot. “They would laugh, they would smile, then they would feel bad and they would ask about the person in the photo, meaning this really triggered something in their character and in the mind. And it became a litmus test to find where people are emotionally, and about how people care about their fellow human beings.”For Lydia, who’s been on the streets for 15 years, he painted an alpine meadow with snow-topped hills around her tent. “Tents belong camping in the forest,” he says. His work has been the focus of numerous articles, drawing attention to a homeless problem that in recent years has grown too big to ignore.With record rains expected – though not yet materialising – this winter, a loss of life and property is certain to follow unless something is done. Recent headlines have heralded a 10-year, $1.85bn plan that remains unfunded, with a $100m guarantee from the city this year. “There’s going to be redirection of dollars. We have increased revenue, more than we expected. We’re just going to shift those dollars around,” says councilman Jose Huizar who chaired an ad hoc committee on homelessness, which led to his now co-chairing a permanent homeless committee. But while they’re celebrating progress in city hall, activists like Eric Ares of LACAN (LA Community Action Network) are quick to questions how the hoped-for money will be spent. “The CAO (city administrative officer, Miguel Santana), who worked a lot for this plan, came out with a report last year that out of the $100m out of general fund just to work on homelessness, $87m is for arresting, citing, holding homelessness; crimes of poverty. It’s really entrenched in LAPD enforcement and their budget.” Robot saw the effects of this firsthand, collaborating with activist Elvis Summers. The two build tiny wooden houses on wheels, big enough to sleep two, with a lock on the door. Soon after delivering one to their friend, Birdman, homeless for 25 years, it was demolished by the police. They, along with other advocates, are considering a lawsuit on Birdman’s behalf. And according to Ares, they might be on solid legal ground. “Overall, the way law enforcement, the city, and any government agency, how they deal with homeless peoples’ property is questionable, at best, on legal grounds,” he says – though he concedes that the Tiny Houses project is complicated by public health and structural codes. While policing is essential, the only practical solution is public housing. No one understands that better than Lydia. Currently on a list for housing that is, according to Ares, 10,000 names long, she has a daughter in rehab and a husband, a member of the Blackfoot tribe, who hopes to return to the reservation in Montana. Lydia doesn’t worry too much about El Niño, though the back of her tent is torn. What she does worry about is her next meal. “The only time they come is around 10 or 11 at night,” she says about a volunteer mobile food bank. “Sometimes they come and sometimes they don’t. Right now, the only thing I have is what’s in that box. They came with bologna and cheese and that’s it.”She seems genuinely glad to see Robot, and trades gossip with him. He usually shows up bearing food or water, and his alpine mural has been a minor source of income from tourists who offer to pay for a photograph. “It puts a smile on my face,” she says about the landscape. “That’s my serenity.”