Russia’s economy is in recession as it languishes under western sanctions and low oil prices. Three million people fell into poverty last year. But oligarch Mikhail Gutseriev didn’t seem to be feeling the pinch as he shelled out millions of dollars for his son’s weekend wedding in Moscow, which featured foreign stars such as Sting, Jennifer Lopez and Enrique Iglesias. Gutseriev, estimated by Forbes to be worth $6.2bn (£4.3bn), owns assets including the oil company Russneft and has also written songs for famous Russian singers. It was little wonder, then, that he brought in top performers for the wedding on Saturday of his Oxford-educated 28-year-old son, Said, to 19-year-old Khadija Uzhakhova, a dentistry student from the Gutserievs’ ethnic homeland of Ingushetia.J-Lo reportedly performed choreographed hits with a troupe of dancers, at one point joking that pronouncing the bride and groom’s names was “the hardest thing I had to do today”. She has commanded up to $1.4m for similar performances in the past. Sting, who served as the de facto wedding band with songs such as Message in a Bottle and Every Breath You Take, was photographed holding a bouquet and talking to a slightly awkward-looking Said. Other performers included Iglesias, French star Patricia Kaas and Russian singer Alla Pugachyova.About 600 guests, including the Ingushetian president, Yunus-Bek Yevkurov, attended the celebration at the upscale Safisa restaurant, which was covered floor-to-ceiling with elaborate flower arrangements that Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper reported cost about $200,000. The bride was bedecked with diamonds and wore a custom-beaded Elie Saab gown, which can reportedly cost up to £18,000. The nine-tiered wedding cake was topped with a Muslim crescent moon and star.A second wedding celebration in London this weekend will also feature famous singers, according to Russian media reports.The impoverished Ingushetia has the highest unemployment of any region in Russia, and media noted that the wedding probably cost more than the region’s planned expenditures this year on health care and education. Many social media users were disgusted by the extravagance, with one uploading a video of the elder Gutseriev advising Russians to “start saving on everything”. 