When I first moved to Chicago almost a decade ago, the one thing almost everyone would ask when I visited home in Tennessee was if I had met Oprah Winfrey. Growing up in the same southern state we both considered home, Oprah held a cult-like status. Everyone – especially black Tennesseans – saw Oprah’s success (her net worth is just under $3bn) as evidence that anything is possible if you work hard enough.Many friends and family seemed to believe that Oprah possessed a sort of Midas touch where if she so much as gazed upon you, then your life would change for the better – at least that’s what her show made it seem like.Queen Sugar: Oprah’s latest drama is a sweet success Before there was The Oprah Winfrey Show, which started 30 years ago this week, there was AM Chicago: a local talk-show that she moved from Baltimore to host back in 1986. After just one year of hosting, the show became nationally syndicated and quickly became the highest rated talk show in American history. Her success came at a time when shows like Geraldo Rivera’s “trash TV” dominated the ratings. But this was something different. This was compassionate, empathetic and ultimately uplifting. A columnist at Newsday once wrote, “[She’s] wittier, more genuine, and far better attuned to her audience, if not the world,” when comparing her to Phil Donahue – her biggest competition.These qualities became defining for her as the show grew, and was an intentional move in order for her to create the type of show she wanted. In a 2001 profile of her growing success in Time magazine, Oprah said “[There] is a commonality in human experience … If it’s happened to one person, it has happened to thousands of others. Our shows are hour-long life lessons.” Her celebration of the singular experience as a way to connect to everyone became a defining experience of the show. Oprah’s success led on to shows such as The Ricki Lake Show and The Montel Williams Show, which helped define daytime TV in the 90s.While viewers may have not personally experienced everything guest shared while sitting across from Oprah, it was her ability to find something in each story that was universal or could relate. From segregating audience by eye color in a 1992 show to help people understand the experiences of racism, to discussing her own history of childhood sexual abuse, it was how personal Oprah made everything why people fell so deeply in love with her over the years. She seemed to love people as much as people loved her.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama appear on The Oprah Winfrey Show. Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoAnd it was this quality of being loving and giving that also led so many celebrities to Oprah’s to sit on her couch over the years, in hopes that this perceived warmth could potentially help them spin various public relations disasters into something manageable.Tom Cruise used her show to discuss his faith, Scientology, and his relationship with Katie Holmes, leading to his infamous couch moment. Michael Jackson allowed her into his Neverland ranch to try and debunk various rumors about his life and even spoke to her about being abused as a child. Arguably the most famous case of a PR campaign trying to channel the Oprah effect was when cyclist Lance Armstrong sat down with Oprah for an exclusive interview on her OWN television network where he publicly confessed to a campaign of highly sophisticated doping that he’d denied for years. The 10 best chatshow moments As she grew in popularity, she began to use her show as a platform to not only tell stories of those whom we may ignore or be fascinated by, but also to help raise up those she respected and loved. She used her popularity to promote and launch the careers of so many people who are all now household names.The television cook Rachael Ray caught Oprah’s eye while doing stints on her show before eventually getting her own daytime show with her support. Dr Phil, the famous daytime psychologist, appeared on Oprah’s show over 100 times before getting his own, and her personal chef Art Smith has had success with his Table Fifty-Two restaurant in Chicago.After a 25-year run, the finale of the show was preceded by a two-part episode filmed in Chicago’s United Center with over 13,000 audience members and the likes of Beyoncé and Aretha Franklin helping her say farewell. The last episode, which took place inside the studio on 25 May 25 2011, was mostly attended by Morehouse students who were, in true Oprah-fashion, recipients of a scholarship fund she has there.I’ve still never met Oprah but the fact is her influence on US culture, from TV (OWN is airing Queen Sugar, which is co-produced by director Ava Duvernay) to film (she recently starred in Selma) means you don’t have to look too far in American life before you see her Midas touch.