With two landmark series in the 1980s and 90s, Garry Shandling, who has died of a heart attack aged 66, transformed television comedy. It’s Garry Shandling’s Show and The Larry Sanders Show were among the most influential comedy programmes of their era, creating a self-referential style that made a huge impact on everyone from Jerry Seinfeld, Larry David, Sarah Silverman and Judd Apatow to Ricky Gervais and Sacha Baron Cohen.Shandling’s “meta-comedy” was not brand new; he sometimes cited as an influence the Burns and Allen Show of the 50s, in which the comedians George Burns and Gracie Allen played themselves and George in particular would break the fourth wall to address the audience. The fourth wall often disappeared in It’s Garry Shandling’s Show, which was set primarily in his small apartment, as Seinfeld would be. Just as Shandling pointed out how his own biggest influence, Woody Allen, brought a “different sensibility” to comedy, Shandling’s humour grew out of the comedian’s vulnerability, inevitably worried that something will not be funny. The core of The Larry Sanders Show lay in the insecurity of taking that vulnerability into the cut-throat world of showbusiness.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Clip from The Larry Sanders ShowShandling’s reverence for his art, for the joy and unease in the world of comedy was perhaps best reflected in a series of interviews he made as extras for the complete DVD release of Larry Sanders, in which some of the show’s many guests talk about themselves, in sometimes off-beat settings, as when he boxes with the actor Alec Baldwin. These culminate in one of his most telling bits of meta-comedy, when Gervais arrives to be interviewed, but first wants to film Shandling for a Channel 4 programme. The resulting video is so uncomfortably funny it is impossible to tell where character begins or ends.Born in Chicago to Muriel, who ran a pet store, and Irving, who ran a print shop, Garry moved with his family to Tucson, Arizona, so that his older brother, Barry, could be treated for cystic fibrosis. Garry was 10 when his brother died. At the University of Arizona, Shandling first studied electrical engineering, where he said he learned “the discipline of working out a formula, but ultimately one where there is an answer. I don’t think Einstein ever bounced it off a crowd.”He switched to marketing, but his direction changed after he drove to Phoenix one night to see the counterculture comedian George Carlin, and handed him 20 pages saying: “I wrote some routines for you.” The next day Carlin told him there was something funny on every page and told him to keep going.After a graduate year studying creative writing, Shandling moved to Los Angeles, where he worked in advertising before writing for Sanford and Son (the American version of Steptoe and Son) and Welcome Back Kotter, a sitcom about a teacher in charge of a racially mixed remedial class. In 1977 he nearly died in a car accident that ruptured his spleen; he then resolved to escape the limitations of sitcoms and take up standup comedy.In 1981 the Tonight Show producer Jim McCawley caught his act; three nights later Shandling was Johnny Carson’s guest. They hit it off and he appeared often. His timing was good and exposure on Tonight was a springboard to a series of specials for newly growing cable channels such as Showtime and HBO, which needed edgier material to draw in subscribers. He sold It’s Garry Shandling to Showtime in 1986 and it ran for five seasons; the last three were also shown, in edited versions, on the Fox network.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Garry Shandling’s debut appearance on Johnny Carson’s Tonight Show in 1981Shandling was doing guest spots and hosting the Grammy awards when he went to HBO with the revolutionary idea for Larry Sanders. While readying for the show’s debut in 1992, his name popped up in the race to replace the retiring Carson on Tonight; when Jay Leno got the job, CBS offered Shandling its Late Late Show, which he turned down. In 1993 he was offered $5m a year to host the Late Night programme after David Letterman left; again he turned down a real talk show for his own meta-real programme. Larry Sanders and its core cast, Rip Torn as producer Artie and Jeffrey Tambor as sidekick Hank Kingsley, were nominated for 56 Emmy awards, though they won only three; Shandling and Peter Tolan shared one for writing the final episode in 1998.The show also won two British Comedy Awards and a BAfter Larry Sanders, Shandling slowed down. His long-term relationship with the actor Linda Doucett had ended midway through the show’s run; when she was fired from her role as Kingsley’s assistant she sued for sexual harassment and wrongful termination, winning $1m million in a settlement. In 1998 Shandling sued his agent, Brad Grey, for inappropriately claiming half-ownership of the show and a producer’s fee in addition to his agency charges; the out-of-court settlement was estimated at $4m.Shandling had roles in off-beat films such as Hurlyburly (1998), What Planet Are You From? (2000), which he also wrote, and Town and Country (2001), as well as bit parts in others such as Zoolander (2001). In 2010 he played a serious role as Senator Stern in Iron Man 2, which he reprised four years later in Captain America: The Winter Soldier. He also hosted the Emmy awards and did animation voice-overs, most notably as Verne the turtle in Over the Hedge (2006). But he generally seemed to be concentrating on personal projects such as his DVD interviews, Buddhist meditation and learning to box. The regular Sunday basketball games that took place at his house became the stuff of Hollywood legend.Last year, in an episode of Seinfeld’s Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee, he and Seinfeld had discussed the suicide of Robin Williams. “You have to die in your 60s for them to say, ‘He was young’,” Shandling quips. Then he says: “What I want at my funeral is for an actual boxing referee to do a count, and at five wave it off and say, ‘He’s not getting up.’ ” • Garry Emmanuel Shandling, comedian, born 29 November 1949; died 24 March 2016