Anyone familiar with Manchester’s cottage industry of club nostalgia will have noted the latest addition to dance music’s legacy: a full-blown orchestra. Last month saw the debut of Haçienda Classical, where house classics were pumped out by the club’s former mainstay DJs Graeme Park and Mike Pickering and retooled by Manchester Camarata. The run included two nights within the majestic walls of the Royal Albert Hall. Of course, Happy Mondays man Bez was on hand to do his dance, mercifully stripped of maracas. When Tony Wilson famously announced: “This is Manchester. We do things differently here,” it’s uncertain whether that philosophy would one day encompass a strings-led, high-NRG reinterpretation of Black Box’s Ride On Time.Hacienda Classical review – Madchester glory days with strings attached Blame the success of Clean Bandit’s cello pop. Blame the rise of minimal classical music. Blame the sad inevitability that veteran clubbers prefer to go out on a weeknight to a venue that has velvet seats. Whichever way you slice it, this naff concept shows no signs of slowing. Next up is Liverpool’s Cream Classics at the city’s cathedral, which will revisit the 90s scouse superclub’s behemothic reign in a style that’s more reverential than hedonistic.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest For Philharmonic conductor Tim Crooks, undoubtedly the only man in classical with Now Dance 1998 on regular rotation, merging the two worlds makes sense, and not just for financial reasons. Of the crossover between classical and electronica, he says: “So many colours and sounds from synthesizers originate from acoustic instruments. There’s a clear and exciting world of sound that is shared between these two bodies. It’s rich for exploration.”True, there is a long history of this “rich exploration” in dance music; much of Italo Disco, to give just one example, would be stripped of its melodramatic power without those sweeping, emotive strings. But the current trend for high-concept classical “raves” in prestigious venues feels at odds with dance music’s forward-thinking worldview. The Haçienda provided a space for local producers such as A Guy Called Gerald and 808 State to play music that was unstudied, experimental and vital, not kowtowing to styles that were centuries old. Getting an orchestra to play dance anthems may come off as a gilded seal of prestige or legacy but it drains them of their naive simplicity and euphoria.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hacienda Classical at The Royal Albert Hall. Photograph: Christie Goodwin/GettyThere are artists who are actually innovating in this field. Electronic producers such as Actress and Mica Levi recently tangled their cutting-edge beats with orchestras – the LCO and London Sinfionetta respectively. Instead of harking to the past, these collaborations offer a glimpse of how the two forms can merge to create something futuristic. I’ll take that over Peter Hook jamming with a regional orchestra any night of the week.Cream Classics is at Liverpool Cathedral, 15 & 16 April. Haçienda Classical tickets available at https://m.ticketmaster.co.uk/artist/2176780