In summer 2012, I landed in Baghdad with a large suitcase containing the clothes I planned to wear for the next two years. Alongside shirts and underwear, I had packed a selection of Russian classics, including an old Penguin paperback of plays by Anton Chekhov.The Chekhov was a recent addition to my library – a spine-broken paperback I’d picked up at a Sydney fleamarket, one of those beautiful, random encounters. I was about to start writing a book about Russia and it was a piece of Russia to take with me.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Guillermo Erades at work. Photograph: Rebecca TottI was met at arrivals in Baghdad, to begin my EU diplomatic posting, by a broad-shouldered man who introduced himself as the leader of my close protection team. Lugging my suitcase, I chased him as he marched into the scorching sun, where three armoured Toyotas waited for us, engines on. The man handed me a flak jacket, which he helped me to strap on, and a helmet, which he said should be kept next to me but not necessarily on my head. “Welcome to Iraq, sir,” the driver said, wedging his machine-gun between the seat and gear shift. Then, after a quick security briefing that felt pre-recorded, the vehicles moved off.We came across military vehicles, checkpoints and soldiers, yet it was the walls that struck me. Entire roads were lined with tall anti-blast concrete boulders. It was like driving through a giant maze. I’d read the reports, of course. Every week, dozens of Iraqis blown up in markets and mosques, beheaded at checkpoints, gunned down in the streets, at their own weddings and at the funerals of those killed the day before. It was carnage. It had been for years.I’d been warned before accepting the post: other than for diplomatic receptions and official meetings, I would not be allowed to leave my residential compound. I’d have few entertainment options, and it’s so hot in summer that I’d have to spend all my free time inside my air-conditioned pod. It sounded great, the perfect place to crack on and write my Moscow book. Other than turn up the air con, the best way to create a Russian mood was to dip into some Chekhov Soon, I’d arranged my routine so that I could spend a few hours every day at my laptop. It was true that, outside work, there was little to do. I could linger at the canteen, or join British diplomats at the compound bar (humorously named the Inn Coming). I could play football with the security guards.But mostly I was in my pod. Through the thick glass of the small anti-blast window, which was always covered in a red dust, I could only see the cement and wire of the anti-blast Hesco walls. The purpose of these, I’d been told, was to limit the damage in case a rocket landed inside the compound. There was not much you could do if it landed on top of your own pod, but I found comfort in the statistical unlikelihood of that happening. And so, as the scorching Mesopotamian sun rose beyond the walls, I would sit and write about Russian winters, trying to evoke the beauty of the snow as it falls silently over Moscow’s wide avenues.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anton Chekov, in Melikhovo, south of Moscow, in 1897. Photograph: Bettmann/CorbisHere’s where Chekhov gave me a hand. I’d realised that, other than turn up the air con, the best way to create a Russian mood was to dip into his writing. I’d first encountered Chekhov when living in Moscow in the early 2000s. I’d enjoyed the stories but had found them plain. But now, in the solitude of my pod, I began to appreciate the plays. Reading the yearnings and preoccupations of his three sisters, the way they saw Moscow as an elusive symbol of future happiness, I realised Chekhov was not only writing about life in 19th-century Russia, he was writing about life. Ours. About the dullness of it all, about the insignificance of our existence.In Baghdad I found resonance in Chekhov’s claustrophobic sense of entrapment, in the historical doom cast over the times he described. Yet, under a layer of Chekhovian melancholy, there was a sublime aesthetic quality in the writing, a subtle beauty that evoked – as experienced by many a Chekhov reader – an unbearable sense of nostalgia.In August 2014, after two years in Iraq, I left the compound for the last time. As the armoured Toyotas carried me to the airport, I thought about all the people who were still getting killed. By now, Islamic State had taken over a vast part of the country. The region was at war; it would be for years to come. Peeking out of the car’s window, observing the walls bordering the road, I wondered how much all this had affected me, and to what extent it had seeped into the draft I was now carrying in my luggage.Guillermo Erades is the author of Back to Moscow, published by Scribner. 