For an event that presents itself as “the most exciting combat sport in the world” the Ultimate Fighting Championship involves many long minutes in which, to the untutored eye, nothing much happens at all. The UFC is the dominant promoter of mixed martial arts, the fastest-growing sport on Earth, measured both by participation and audience. At the O2 arena in London last Saturday I sat in a sellout audience of 16,000 people and tried to work out why exactly that might be the case. There were, it turned out, plenty of moments for such stray thoughts.The combatants in a mixed martial arts (MMA) fight are permitted not only to punch but also kick, elbow and knee their opponent within the octagonal cage in which they fight. In an effort to avoid any of those eventualities fighters can also wrestle their opponent into powerlessness, mostly using the technical holds and joint locks of jiu-jitsu. Like the change of overs in a cricket match, the resultant longueurs, which can go on for minutes, allow you to step out from the action, think about what it is exactly that you are watching.During one of those interludes early last Saturday evening, while Tim Johnson, a hairy 18st man from Fargo, North Dakota, held Daniel Omielanczuk, a flabby Pole, in an awkward-looking embrace against the mesh fence – a hug that involved him thrusting his head into the Pole’s armpit while occasionally trying to force a knee into his thigh, or slap a fist into his paunch – I looked around at the faces of the audience. Though the real action of the night hadn’t got going, I was surprised to see that the majority of these 16,000 people – who had paid an average of £100 for their tickets – seemed happily gripped by the spectacle of the two overweight men in Bermuda shorts pressed against the cage wall.I had come to the O2 as a UFC virgin to try to see what they see. I’d not witnessed the sport in the flesh before, but I had, in preparation, along with apparently every other youngish male on the planet, watched more YouTube clips than seemed healthy. These clips – 2bn views and counting – tend not to show the minutes in which the fighters are in deadlock. They show instead, on a concussive loop, the many bloody ways in which UFC fights come to a brutal end, dwelling in particular on the knockout blows of the sport’s superstars: the Irish lightweight Conor McGregor, Jon “Bones” Jones (currently suspended for a failed drug test) and the former Olympic judo medallist Ronda Rousey (who has singlehandedly popularised women’s UFC). The UFC is a sport made for the internet. Fights are short and do not offer much in the way of narrative, but they can deliver in terms of gifs. The clips do not need subtitles. As Lorenzo Fertitta, one of the brothers who bought the UFC brand for $2m in 2000, explained: “What makes UFC so great is that every single man on the planet gets it immediately. It’s just two guys beating each other up.” Last June, the Fertitta brothers proved that lucrative point by selling UFC to Ari Emanuel, chief executive of WME-IMG for $4bn. The new owners have the ambition to make their championship “bigger than the World Cup”.The entertainment we choose to watch tells us something about the world in which we live. I’d come to the O2 with a theory that, in the same way that Victorian rules of football and rugby codified an attitude towards team play that made sense in the factory and on the battlefield, so the UFC looked something like a symbol of a more atomised, red-in-tooth-and-claw society. Within its cage MMA emphasises a binary, zero-sum world: for one man to succeed, another must be humiliated. It seems, along the way, to appeal to that unreconstructed nostalgia for a time before “political correctness”: when men could say what they wanted, and watch what they wanted, and celebrate the fact.The contours of this cultural shift were neatly exposed at the end of last year in the brief “war of words” between Meryl Streep and Dana White, the bullish president of the UFC. Streep, you will remember, had used her Golden Globes acceptance speech to take a stand against the America that was emerging under the 45th president. “Hollywood is crawling with outsiders and foreigners, and if we kick them all out, you’ll have nothing to watch but football and mixed martial arts, which are not the arts,” Streep said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Conor McGregor stands on a scale during a weigh-in. Photograph: Julio Cortez/APTo Dana White, that sounded like fighting talk. He came out from the opposite corner in that perceived cultural divide, throwing punches of his own.“The last thing in the world I expect is an uppity 80-year-old lady to be in our demographic and love mixed martial arts,” White said (referring to the 67-year-old actor). “Of course [MMA] is an art,” he added. “These fighters, these men and women, are so talented. They train their whole lives to be the best in the world.”Though some of the fighters on the undercard at the O2 offer scant evidence of that latter claim, as the night progresses you begin to see some of that art and dedication on display. The thoughtfulness and strategy of some of the UFC fighters seems at odds with the attention-deficit tone of the presentation. I find myself intrigued by the style and charisma of the bearded Icelander Gunnar Nelson, who feints and fends for a round or two, upright and alert, before laying out his opponent with a single judicious blow.White and his organisation have worked very hard, at least on the surface, to emphasise such skills. In the early days of the UFC the sport made a virtue of its lawlessness. The UFC’s first show was in Denver in 1993. Taking its cue from videogames like Mortal Kombat, it threw fighters from different traditions and weights into a ring and had them fight until someone was beaten to a standstill, or worse. In the first tournament, a French kickboxer struck a sumo wrestler so hard in the face that two teeth had to be removed from his foot. Hardly anything was off-limits. In 1996 Republican senator John McCain, the Vietnam war hero and 2000 presidential candidate, branded UFC “human cockfighting” and it was banned almost everywhere.The fight game reloaded: how MMA and UFC conquered the world | Andy Bull White, who was installed as president of the organisation by the Fertittas, strived to change that perception, enforce rules, get the UFC licensed and recognised. The new rules outlawed butting, eye-gouging and striking the throat, groin, spine or back of the head. Weight categories were imposed. Women, excluded from UFC in its first two decades, became headline acts in the sport, led by Ronda Rousey. Even McCain was eventually won over. The UFC now makes much of its safety record. The fact that fighters only wear rudimentary gloves (mostly to protect their hands from being crushed against the cage) is presented as a virtue. The absence of padding makes knockouts “cleaner”, the argument goes, as opposed to the repetitive pounding of boxing, and unlike in the latter sport there are no 10-second counts; any loss of consciousness ends a fight.The marketing genius of the UFC seems to lie in the fact that despite making itself acceptable to almost every regulatory code (only in France does MMA remain banned) it retains, in a few ways, the tone of its original streetfighting roots. For one thing, if a fighter is cut, blood is allowed to flow. And if a fighter is knocked down, but not knocked out, his opponent can continue to rain blows down on his head while he is on the floor.In spirit, the UFC exists somewhere between the rigour of traditional martial arts and the contrived drama of pro wrestling. The fights are not fixed, but the narrative of them seems to be. The UFC has 520 fighters contracted to it from 45 countries, and unlike the complicated world of boxing, where fighters from different federations can avoid each other, it insists on the matches that are made. In this way, it builds up heroes and villains, trades on a sense of us and them.During a fight at the O2 between “Irish” Joe Duffy and an Iranian fighter with Swedish nationality called Reza Madadi, all of that intention seems clear. Early in the fight Madadi suffers a bad cut above the bridge of his nose after Duffy has straddled him while on the ground and landed punches to his head (the “ground and pound” tactic that is the UFC at its most brutal). For the remainder of the fight a great deal of blood flows out of Reza’s wound and into his eyes, making his best defence to hold the free-swinging Duffy in a desperate clinch. As a result, by the end of the bout Duffy’s pale skin is bathed in Reza’s blood, a sight that all other sports have outlawed for 30 or more years, but in which the UFC appears to revel.In large part, the crowd, mostly men, seemed nonplussed by the spectacle. For a few, however, the sight of blood seems to loosen inhibition. Unfortunately I am seated in front of one of the more vocal of those individuals, who keeps up a running commentary that relies on two observations – the first a general plea for “Irish” Duffy to “fuck that motherfucker up”; the second, slightly more precise in its demands, is a suggestion to “put him on disability” and “I’ll pay your bail, son.” (In between rounds, the same character, a man in his mid-30s, can’t seem to contain himself at the sight of the bikini-clad woman who holds up a sign for the number of the next round. No matter how often she circles the ring, he offers the same pair of thoughts: “I want your babies! Don’t tell the wife!”)Not everyone attracted to MMA shares those particular passions, but sitting beside the cage it seems hard to ignore the idea that the tremendous popularity of the sport speaks to something of a crisis in masculinity, a nostalgia for more “traditional” gender roles, a nostalgia that also fuels populist politics.Grayson Perry, in his recent television quest to define British masculinity, talked to some MMA fighters in the north-east. Their stories were framed by the annual Durham Miners’ Gala, and Perry made the argument that the demise of the old masculine ideals, rooted in physical work to put food on the table, had left a vacancy that had not been filled. Watching one of the mixed martial arts fights – on a more brutal, local scale than the UFC – the artist suggested persuasively that “hard labour [had been] reinvented as leisure spectacle”. In a place in which men had gone in a generation from digging coal underground to packing sandwiches in a factory, there was a desperation for “the heroic narrative”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brad Pitt as Tyler Durden in David Fincher’s 1999 film of Fight Club. Photograph: AllstarThe narrative that the UFC presents is a carefully stage-managed form of heroism, one in which it’s not hard to see the artifice. Whenever there is a lull in the action in the O2 cage, big screens around the arena run through their concussive highlights packages. The effect is a bit like going to watch Grimsby Town and having shots of Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo playing on a loop. Conor McGregor may not be here in person, but we see almost as much of him on screen as we do of the fighters in the cage. Those in the crowd who wear full beards in the style of the Irishman, the undisputed cock of the walk, seem to enjoy the virtual proximity in the same way as if he were here.The argument for ritualised, rule-bound martial arts has always been that it helps fulfil a Darwinian need in men to test themselves against each other while minimising the carnage. It gets them off the streets. The UFC not only trades on those impulses, however, it also trades on the idea that they are essential features of manliness. While the rules of traditional martial arts were social constructs, demanding submission, the mythology of MMA feels closer in spirit to the nihilistic tenor of Chuck Palahniuk’s book Fight Club, written in 1996, and David Fincher’s subsequent 1999 film, starring Brad Pitt as the no-holds-barred hero Tyler Durden. Durden presented a world in which only in fighting did men truly find status: “We’re the middle children of history, man. No purpose or place. We have no Great War. No Great Depression. Our Great War’s a spiritual war... our Great Depression is our lives. We’ve all been raised on television to believe that one day we’d all be millionaires, and movie gods, and rock stars. But we won’t. And we’re slowly learning that fact. And we’re very, very pissed off…” Palahniuk’s novel, and Fincher’s film, in part satirised this anger – and the anarchy that resulted – but they also seemed prophetic of a powerful impulse in western societies: the impulse of insecure alpha males to reassert their strength. It is no surprise that the so-called alt-right likes to quote liberally from Tyler Durden to give their bigotry a Nietzchean veneer. The catch-all insult to liberals “snowflake”, for example, derives from Durden, a hero for whom men “are not a beautiful or unique snowflake”. Like the UFC, Fight Club dramatises a life of instinct above one of thought. It suggests that man is at his best when he is in thrall to his animal nature, and what is wrong with that?Read through this lens, the rise of Donald Trump – his special adviser Steve Bannon refers to the campaign and the administration as his own personal fight club – might be viewed as an expression of this reasserted biological determinism. Trump makes no effort at all to hide his “masculine” urges, and is rewarded for it. He is all instinct. He boasts about sexual assault. He licenses beauty pageants because he likes to display his control over a harem. And, inevitably, perhaps, he is celebrated as the “godfather” of the UFC.When Trump accepted his nomination as Republican candidate, Dana White offered the GOP convention a public endorsement. White explained how, in the darker days of the sport, after Senator McCain had criticised the UFC as “cockfighting” and no one would license or put on MMA bouts, Trump stood alone in support of it. He personally hosted and endorsed two UFC shows in 2000 at the Trump Taj Mahal in Atlantic City, a commitment that probably saved UFC from bankruptcy. “State athletic commissions didn’t support us,” White recalled. “Arenas around the world refused to host our events. Nobody took us seriously. Nobody except Donald Trump.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Donald Trump in ‘action’ against Vince McMahon at WrestleMania in 2007. Photograph: Sam Greenwood/WireImageTrump not only embraced the sport, he explored the possibility of himself developing a rival to the UFC called Affliction. He signed up a famous Russian fighter, Fedor Emelianenko, close friend of Vladimir Putin, to star in his events. The experiment ended after a couple of promotions but for all his efforts, Trump was inducted as a “visionary” into the New Jersey State Martial Arts Hall of Fame (Trump is known to have “fought” just once in public himself: at WrestleMania XXIII in 2007, he body-slammed the wrestling promoter Vince McMahon outside the ring before, bizarrely, shaving his hair (an encounter preserved for historians on YouTube).In the opening skirmishes of his political war on nuance, Trump seems to have identified the UFC, or at least fans of it, as likely fellow travellers. “It’s sort of like – somebody dies!” he said, when asked about the sport’s appeal. ‘I’ve never seen anything like it … It’s not like, ‘Oh, how are the judges voting?’ It’s like, you know, somebody just succumbs.”That particularly adolescent – now presidential – fantasy is never quite as simple in reality. Watching the UFC up close, without the edits and the highlights, you have a strong sense of the vulnerability of the fighters as well as their prowess. They look as likely to have been bullied as to be bullies. The strangest moment in a long evening at the O2 comes with the farewell fight of 38-year-old Brad Pickett, a native East Ender, who has been a stalwart of the UFC for nearly a decade, and who has earned the nickname “One Punch”.In case you were in any doubt of his cockney connections, Pickett enters the arena to Chas and Dave’s song Wallop, wearing a string vest, braces, his customary trilby, and reading a paper (I’m guessing not the Observer). He is, given the valedictory nature of his performance, also in tears. He is fighting a lithe Ecuadorean kickboxer, Marlon Vera, who is at least a foot taller than him and just over half his age. For a couple of rounds the farewell fight seems to be going to plan; in the third, however, as Pickett tries to land a trademark punch, Vera knocks him out with a vicious kick to the jaw. Pickett tries to get up and fight on, but is stopped by the referee. In tears again, he leaves his trilby in the centre of the Octagon. Later in his press conference, he is still bemoaning the way that the fight ended. He doesn’t believe he had lost consciousness. He’d told the referee: “If you are going to stop it make sure I’m stiff”, but he hadn’t listened. Still choked, he speaks a little about his long history with the sport, how at his first MMA fights on Portsmouth pier he didn’t even get paid: “Just a free seat for my mum and dad. It wasn’t even a sport really, at all then,” he says, “but look at it now, all around the world.”Pickett is not wrong in that evaluation. In its apparently unstoppable growth, the UFC now broadcasts in more than 152 countries to more than a billion households worldwide. In Europe, more people, 237 million, watch the UFC than Formula One. New owner Ari Emanuel bought the organisation with a view to extending that reach still further.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brad Pickett of England punches Marlon Vera of Ecuador in their bout at the O2. Photograph: Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC/Zuffa LLC via Getty ImagesTo this end, in the months since taking over the sport, he has been doing the rounds of key political figures. Emanuel has history with Trump: he bought the Miss Universe Organisation from him in 2015, and prior to that acted as his Hollywood agent. When the pair met two weeks after the president’s election in November, on a golf course in New Jersey, Trump referred to his friend as the “king of Hollywood”.Emanuel’s immediate ambition appears to be to expand the UFC’s reach into what has become a spiritual homeland of MMA, Vladimir Putin’s Russia. Like Trump, the Russian president is a great admirer of the sport for “what it reveals about men”. A former judo champion himself, he has often watched bouts at ringside, particularly those involving his great friend Fedor Emelinenko. His enthusiasm is outdone perhaps by the hardline leader of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, who was recently chastised for staging a televised MMA night in Grozny in which his three sons – aged 8, 9 and 10 – prevailed in one-sided bouts against terrified-looking schoolboys. Kadyrov cheered them on at the side of the cage, in an event “aimed at popularising the sport in Chechnya”. Though there are no children’s cage fights in Russia itself, the appeal of creating a generation that grows up fighting finds ready advocates in a parliament that has passed laws allowing wife-beating and considered the proposal of turning football hooliganism into a recognised sport.In December Emanuel had a productive meeting with the Russian deputy prime minister Vitaly Mutko, and a deal for a UFC event in Moscow seems likely. “They’ve shown me their presentation,” Mutko said. “I was shocked when I saw what they were doing. The revenues, how much they get from the TV…” The march of UFC shows no signs of stopping.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ronda Rousey’s UFC comeback halted after 48 seconds by Brazilian Amanda NunesFight nights like the one at the O2 now receive bigger pay-per-view audiences than major league baseball. All sports events require a climax and this evening’s is provided on cue by the British light heavyweight contender Jimi Manuwa, who knocks out his American opponent, Corey Anderson, in the first round with what looks, to my uneducated eye, like a glancing blow to the forehead, but which leaves Anderson in an untidy heap against the mesh of the cage. Most UFC fighters generally don’t earn anything approaching the millions afforded to the stars of other sports, but they are incentivised to finish things “cleanly” without too much wrestling. For his punch, Manuwa was awarded an extra $50,000. His opponent Anderson rose quickly from the knockout and seemed fully restored. Later in an immaculate suit he talked about what he had learned from his few seconds in the ring. The conclusion of the fight itself seemed immediately forgotten, as if it had been just a video clip.In Fight Club, the narrator observes: “When the fight was over, nothing was solved, but nothing mattered. We all felt saved.” There is among the crowd at the O2 a sense, if not of that kind of vicarious euphoria, then at least a muted pleasure among youngish men having witnessed what they came to see, a certain sense of an ending, and a clear divide between winner and loser. Watching on, I’m reminded a bit of the few playground fights I stumbled into, or times when I was caught in the wrong place in a football crowd when things were kicking off. For a while all the posturing seems absurd, until you realise it is meant wholly in earnest. Not for the first time in recent months I feel vaguely alone in a British crowd, reliving the knockout blow, wondering how to get home.