My first experience of the power of a limited cultural mirror emerged in my pre-teens. The books that I devoured consisted mostly of the American serials that dominated the children’s library shelves at the time, full of characters that I could only dream of emulating. I demolished piles of Sweet Valley High novels – the Wakefield twins were probably my first tween obsessions, the first characters who, with a burning envy, I wanted to be like. This pair of pretty, popular Californian girls who were, as was emphasised in every book, perfect – from their perfect size six figures, to their perfect blonde hair and perfectly perfect blue-green eyes.  Sweet Valley High girls ... Brittany and Cynthia Daniel in the TV adaptation. Photograph: AlphaGrowing up in Australia, the bodies that pervaded my landscape, from magazines to TV to books, were predictable in their sameness: mostly white, tall and thin, blonde, sun-kissed, and – being Australia – perpetually bikini-clad. Needless to say, for teenage me – short, brown, built like a rather formless twig, and wholly unable to master the secret of tousled beach-hair – this ever-present representation was the source of some confusion.Yet I still buried my head in books, choosing to be wilfully blinkered to the fact that none of the characters I read and loved looked anything like me. I accepted, without much critical thought, that someone who was not beautiful, thin and white, could only ever exist on the margins of a story – sometimes in the background, occasionally the sidekick, but never the hero. Difference, when it existed, was often only a narrative driver of change, something to be fought and overcome – the fat character finding happiness by losing weight, the nerd obtaining a life-changing makeover. Empathy for fictional characters is a curious thing. To connect with people on the page requires a measure of identification, a willingness to place ourselves inside the heart and mind of another being. We cheer their successes and are moved by their plights because we’re capable of understanding their motivations, desires and fears. We can imagine what it’s like to walk in their shoes, or we aspire for a heroic, romantic, adventurous life that’s just like theirs. We understand, and share, their humanity. Malorie Blackman: "Children's books still have a long way to go before they are truly diverse." Imagine, then, the cumulative effect of not seeing yourself reflected in that same cultural mirror. To exist in a body that is rarely allowed to stand in the narrative spotlight, or is only ever included as a problem to be solved. A body that, if it appears at all, must be discontented with its “otherness”, that is never allowed to wield the sword or fly the spaceship or be the romantic interest. The reasonable assumption is that your humanity is somehow lesser – less deserving of attention, less capable of carrying a story, less worthy of empathy. Books, particularly books for young people, have an incredible ability to be a source of acknowledgment and celebration, at a time when these things can be critical. To see yourself represented – not as a curiosity or a caricature, but as a full, interesting and complex being – can be soul-saving. And not just because seeing yourself matters; but because knowing that other people in the big wide world are reading and connecting with someone like you matters, too. Thankfully, the contemporary YA landscape has changed a bit since my teens. Diversity is at the forefront of conversations, and new books seems to arrive every year featuring lead characters who challenge the archetype of what I once believed they could be. Campaigns like #WeNeedDiverseBooks are leading discussions about the responsibilities that books have to better represent both their readership and the world in which that readership lives. They’re welcome changes, but it’s a conversation that is still evolving; it’s worth noting that the new editions of the Sweet Valley High books, in an effort to modernise some “dated” references, have reduced the Wakefields’ perfect size six figures to a perfect size four. The quest for inclusivity, in all its forms, continues.What are the best diverse books for children and teenagers? The heroine of my novel, The Incredible Adventures of Cinnamon Girl, is in some respects a teenage girl that I wished my teen self could have read – confident, capable, and with a guilt-free sense of self-love. I wanted her to be a young woman who could enjoy her body without shame, and celebrate it without obsession. Equally, I wanted her to be comfortable in her own skin without any judgement on other girls; her solid sense of self isn’t reliant on comparison. She has no doubts that she is deserving of love, but in the tradition of all romantic comedies, needs to overcome various obstacles to realise it. She struggles with issues – how to best make use of her talents, and where her life is leading in her messy post-high-school world. Her body isn’t erased, but her place at the centre of the story isn’t predicated on it.Everyone deserves to see themselves as a hero – to see their life, their reality, in all its complexity, reflected in their books. For young people, at a time in their lives that can be isolating, and fraught with questions of body image, sexuality and identity, this representation can be vital. 'We Need Diverse Books' calls for more representative writing for children But perhaps equally importantly, every reader deserves to have a full range of humanity represented in their fiction. We should crave stories about people of all sizes, shapes, colours and orientations – whose narrative place isn’t a given because of or in spite of their “otherness”, but who exist in our books because they exist in the world. Fiction is uniquely positioned to convey the message that no one type of body has the monopoly on worthiness – that everyone’s story, and humanity, is valuable.Some reading recommendations for body positive YA:Everything Beautiful by Simmone HowellEleanor and Park by Rainbow RowellDumplin’ by Julie MurphyNimona by Noelle Stevenson      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Smile by Raina TelgemeierFor further recommendations, see the We Need Diverse Books reading list.Melissa Keil’s book The Incredible Adventures of Cinnamon Girl is available from the Guardian bookshop.