“For a long time in Britain,” says Wolfgang Tillmans, “there was a deep suspicion of my work. People saw me as a commercial artist trying to get into the art world, and the work was dismissed as shallow or somehow lightweight. There are still many misconceptions about what I do – that my images are random and everyday, when they are actually neither. They are, in fact, the opposite. They are calls to attentiveness.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Avoiding the traditional … Astro crusto, 2012. Photograph: © Wolfgang TillmansAt 48, Tillmans – who has walked to his own singular beat since his seemingly casual, but meticulously choreographed, photographs of his friends first appeared in the style pages of i-D magazine in the early 1990s – has finally been granted a solo show at Tate Modern. With time, suspicion has turned to acceptance, but he remains an iconoclast of sorts. What is most striking about the exhibition is not the breadth of the work – abstract pieces, portraits, politically driven installations, large landscapes and everyday objects – but the fact that this is not a retrospective, more an illuminating glimpse of how his restless mind works.“It is shocking to me that the show is so big and yet so many pieces have not made it on to the walls,” he says, laughing. “That is frustrating, but this show is not about completeness. In a way, I wanted it to be as close to now as possible.”Although titled Wolfgang Tillmans: 2017, the show’s starting point is really 2003. That was the year he started experimenting with pure colour and form, embracing digital technology to create luminously beautiful images of the natural world. In his Neue Welt series, he tried to evoke the globally connected world in all its infinite difference.Having also reinvented himself as an electronic musician, Tillmans will be hosting a series of events at the Tate’s Tanks. One sound installation will comprise a reconstruction of It’s a Sin by the Pet Shop Boys, which will build, over the space of four hours, from a single track recording of a kick-drum through the entire 48-track layering process. Tillmans will perform at the opening, “singing and working with sound” alongside some electronic collaborators. “The whole Tanks thing is experimental,” he says. “I have to tell myself it is OK and trust that it will be good enough, but it is improvisation, which makes it a bit uncertain as well as exciting.”In person, Tillmans, tall and muscular, his hair close-cropped, is an imposing presence – until he opens his mouth. He speaks with the measured thoughtfulness of someone used to negotiating two languages. Of late, he spends more time in Berlin than London, his adopted home since the late 1980s. We meet in the bright and airy basement studio of his house in Clerkenwell, a room that is the epitome of stylish functionalism. In one corner, there is a stack of cardboard tubes containing the posters he designed last year as part of his campaign to keep Britain in the EU. This late-flowering activism shows no sign of abating, despite his dismay at the outcome of the referendum.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Calls to attentiveness’ … Shit buildings going up left, right and centre 2014. Photograph: © Wolfgang Tillmans“It was an interesting experience,” he says, shaking his head. “I have been politically engaged all my adult life. But last year I was hit by this sudden realisation that all I believed in as a European – reconciliation, change, progress, togetherness, benefiting from each other – was threatened. Nobody else in my world seemed to be interested in doing anything, so I just went ahead and produced the posters. I didn’t care if it would hurt or help me as an artist. I was only interested in the result. I have never felt like that before in my life.”Tillmans also pinpoints 2003 as his year of political awakening, as well as the moment the tumultuous world we now live in began to take shape. “The decision to go to war with Iraq despite all the evidence and the huge anti-war protest march in London, was a definite turning point. That was when things started fermenting that led to me rethinking where I was going with my work. It also – I can see now – led to me becoming more of a high-profile activist last year.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I was not recording my tribe or whatever’ … Alex and Lutz Sitting in the Trees, 1992 Photograph: Wolfgang Tillmans/courtesy Galerie Buchholz, Berlin/CologneThe Tate show includes a room full of his “truth study centres”, which comprise often contradictory newspaper cuttings as well as photographs and pamphlets that aim to show how news is manipulated according to the political loyalties of those who produce it. As activists go, though, Tillmans is defiantly centre ground. “This is about strengthening the centre. I can understand left-wing politics from a passionate, idealistic point of view, but I do not think it is the solution to where we are now. The solution is good governance, moderation, agreement. Post-Brexit, post-Trump, the voices of reason need to be heard more than ever.”Born in the industrial town of Remscheid, Tillmans moved to Hamburg in 1987 at the age of 19. Then, enthralled by British youth culture, he relocated to Bournemouth to study art in 1990. He had come out six years earlier, when, he says, laughing: “Bronski Beat were in the charts and being gay seemed cool, as long as it was not the guy next to you in your small town.”His work had a subtle political undertow from the start – one early fashion shoot was titled What Ever Happened to the Peace Movement? – but he was never militant. “I am more into shifting the centre ground. I never wanted to be a so-called gay artist, for instance, even though homosexuality is there in my work, but as an everyday thing. It wasn’t about representing ‘the other’.”Though he never considered himself a fashion photographer either, his early images appeared exclusively in style magazines, causing a stir with their seeming casualness. His now-famous 1991 portrait, Lutz and Alex Sitting in the Trees, is emblematic of his early style, its everydayness a result of careful staging and art direction.“When I made that photograph, it looked different to anything else in fashion. In fact, we had to call it a fashion story on the page. Back then, magazines like i-D were the only places where I could publish what I would describe as my re-enactments of potentially real situations. It was never my intention to be seen as diaristic or autobiographical. I was not recording the world around me or my tribe or whatever. There is a big misunderstanding there that still persists to this day.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Constant shifts in style … Prinzessinnenstrasse 2014 Photograph: © Wolfgang TillmansSo what was he attempting to do? “I wanted to somehow represent what was not being represented elsewhere. Even though my early photographs are re-enactments, they are showing people at rest and at ease with themselves. They are not doing silly poses or wrapped up in fashion. In that way, they are images of a kind of freedom that was not being expressed honestly elsewhere.”Tillmans speaks fondly of the halcyon days of acid house culture and what he calls the “pan-European language of techno”, two connected youth cultural moments that, in their ecstasy-fuelled utopianism, convinced him that “my generation had overcome the cold war and were coming together in a new spirit of inclusion”.Since then, as that optimism has abated, his photography has been marked by its shifts in style and by his determination to avoid the traditional. His exhibitions can appear wilfully haphazard both in terms of their seemingly unrelated subject matter – portrait next to still life next to abstraction next to landscape – and his eschewal of the accepted norms of the gallery show. He shows his photographs unframed and in a few carefully chosen, but dramatically contrasting, sizes, from postcard small to grandstandingly epic.A show he staged in 2003 was called If One Thing Matters, Everything Matters. It still sounds like a manifesto of sorts, a neat summation of his ambitiously democratic approach. Does he consciously set out to break all the accepted rules of photography? “Not at all. I love tradition. I think August Sander is a genius, but I do not want to emulate him. I do not want to do what has been already done.” He pauses for a moment, deep in thought. “The constant question is, ‘Can I make a picture of this? Can I make something new?’ And sometimes I fail, but I can handle the failures. I even show them sometimes.” Wolfgang Tillmans 2017 is at Tate Modern, London, 15 February-11 June