The Australian producers who were behind eight fake viral videos which made news around the world were part of a Screen Australia-funded project to explore the impact of a short film narrative.Over two years, eight disparate videos from Melbourne’s the Woolshed Company were viewed in 180 countries, more than 205m times. On YouTube alone they were watched for the equivalent of 164 years; they accrued 500,000 comments and 1.6m likes. But all of the scenarios presented as real were fake: a guy taking a selfie in a tornado, a shark attack filmed on a GoPro, a selfie stick fight, a stormtrooper falling down the stairs, lightning almost striking a girl on a beach, a lion taking revenge on a trophy hunter, a GoPro falling off a drone into a dance festival, and a snowboarder being chased by a bear.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The videos were shown in news broadcasts from every commercial TV network in Australia, and internationally on NBC, Fox, CBS, CNN, Sky News and ABC (US). Online publications including Sky News, the Daily Telegraph, the Guardian, the Independent, the Mirror, the Sun, the Telegraph and Time Magazine also shared the videos. The ruse started in June 2014 when the young advertising creatives posted a video on a YouTube channel under the name Terry Tufferson. GoPro: Man Fights Off Great White Shark In Sydney Harbour quickly went viral, attracting more than 34m views on YouTube. The second video, the tornado selfie, was a paid commission from Roadshow Entertainment, to make a fake viral video to promote natural disaster movie Into The Storm.How technology disrupted the truth | Katharine Viner “After the success of the first two we realised that we had a strength to play,” Woolshed Company managing director, Dave Christison, told Guardian Australia. “I see these types of videos every day on my Facebook feed and I know half of them are fake and half of them could be real. We saw it as a short-form story medium.” After a successful bid, the remaining six videos were made in partnership with Screen Australia, which delivered $100,000 in public funding.  “Screen Australia knew we were exploring what is real and what is fake and how the world reacted to it,” Christison said.  “We approached them with the concept, that we’d really like to figure out what are the best ways to reach really big audiences with these tiny little stories. It was totally different to what they normally fund.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  2015: the year in viral videos The Investment Manager of Multiplatform & Interactive at Screen Australia, Mike Cowap, said the Terry Tufferson project was funded through Screen Australia’s multiplatform investment arm, which focuses on online programming (including The Katering Show, Fragments of Friday, Aunty Donna, and Starting from Now), access initiatives for new talent (e.g. ABC Fresh Blood, Google Skip Ahead), and experimental technology and formats such as virtual reality. “Terry Tufferson [was pitched] as an experimental short-form narrative project, which had already enjoyed some success with their Tornado viral video, which demonstrated the power of social media to promote film,” Cowap said. Chimps are cute. They're funny. And viral videos can harm them  “As the team showed significant potential as Australian creatives, Screen Australia funded further short-form narrative videos, on the proviso they were pure fiction, i.e. not advertising.  “We were aware that some people may not realise the videos were fiction, so Screen Australia was clear from the outset that none of the content could cause a potential War of the Worlds moment, alarm people or cause them to take action.” The focus, he said, had to be on short and simple narratives that showed creative and technical skill and was entertaining.  “The volume and quality of product the Woodshed Company produced with their funding met our expectations, and they certainly show promise to extend their skills into longer-form narrative,” Cowap said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Christison says it was never Woolshed’s intention to shame the media. “It obviously [got] exposure in the news, but I think almost everyone presented the videos with a level of scepticism and/or humour,” he said.  “They were presenting it not as news but as something that was trending online, and often they would get someone in to explain how it was definitely fake. “There were a few outlets, generally international ones, that ran with the story straight away. And they did it because it’s so easy; it’s clickbait that captures their attention and gets them in.”Christison said the key to success for viral videos is treating them as entertainment, and approaching each one as a story. You also need a good thumbnail image and a good headline.  “You have to have something that makes them want to click, and to tolerate the first 10 seconds,” he said. “You [also] must create an element of doubt but present it as real, so an argument and debate is created over the authenticity.  “That was key to our success,” he said. “[The debate] opened up on forums, and got people re-sharing the videos arguing one way or another.”