After Brexit: The Battle for Europe 9pm, BBC2The current furore over Trump has overshadowed a similarly seismic political decision made by the UK last year. Here, Katya Adler presents an investigation into the rise of other populist Eurosceptic movements across the continent, which include the Five Star Movement in Italy and Marine Le Pen’s Front National in France. Adler examines the pressure such movements put on the EU itself, and asks if the union can survive this rightwing onslaught. David StubbsUnforgotten 9pm, ITVLast episode of the superior whodunnit’s second series that has seen detectives Cassie Stuart (Nicola Walker) and Sunny Khan (Sanjeev Bhaskar) make their best guess vis-a-vis who was responsible for the body in the suitcase fished out of the River Lea in episode one. The buildup, as the two cops rummage through the 25 years since the victim’s death, has been skilfully wrought to the extent where the viewer has cause to suspect just about everybody. Andrew MuellerEscape to The Wild 9pm Channel 4The hunger for off-grid survival shows (see also Channel 5’s New Lives in The Wild) probably reflects the real sense of unease many of us currently feel in the face of current events. Equally though, most of these programmes suggest that wilderness life itself is no picnic. Tonight, Jimmy Doherty visits Brits Louise and Neil, who live in a Yukon log cabin. Delightful until you consider that if they don’t catch enough moose for the winter, they’ll likely starve. Phil HarrisonThe Great British Benefit Handout Changed My Life 9pm, Channel 5Last year, Channel 5 presented three households on benefits with a handout of the maximum it might be entitled to claim in one year: £26,000. Viewers were quick to judge the likes of Hull’s Tony Herridge (who usually receives £6,000 a year in benefits) for splurging £600 on treats in the first three days. This catchup will see if Tony’s plans for a furniture business, and the plans of other participants, actually came off. John RobinsonLegion 9pm, FOXFargo showrunner Noah Hawley dives into an obscure corner of the X-Men superhero mythos and the impressive result feels more like Black Mirror than Green Arrow. Legion is a hyper-stylised head-trip into the mind of David Haller (Dan Stevens, a long way from Downton), an institutionalised man diagnosed with schizophrenia whose powers might be more real than he has been led to believe. A time-fractured narrative and killer psych-rock soundtrack add to the sense of dislocation. Graeme VirtueInside Dior 9pm, More4Like some elegant, statuesque contessa, Dior turns 70 this year. To mark the occasion, here’s a behind-the-scenes look at the iconic fashion house, whose opulent “New Look” caused such a stir in postwar austerity Paris that models were attacked in the street. Focusing on two shows, at Blenheim Palace and in Paris, this mingles with the likes of Charlize Theron and model Julie Hoomans – her nose stuck in a copy of One Hundred Years Of Solitude between catwalks. Ali CatterallFilm choiceSherlock Holmes And The Spider Woman(Roy William Neill, 1944) Thursday, 7.50pm, TCMNever mind Benedict Cumberbatch et al – here’s the greatest screen incarnation of the Baker Street sleuth: Basil Rathbone, with Nigel Bruce as Dr Watson. In one of the best of the pair’s dozen-or-so vintage B-movies, Holmes faces the seductive Adrea Spedding (Gale Sondergaard), an insurance swindler who dispatches her victims with venomous spiders. Trussed up behind a target (a cardboard Hitler) at a fairground shooting gallery, with Watson and Dennis Hoey’s Inspector Lestrade taking aim, the great detective may just have met his match. Paul HowlettLike Crazy(Drake Doremus, 2011)9pm, Film4Felicity Jones is Anna, a British student who stays on in Los Angeles after her visa expires to be with boyfriend Jacob (Anton Yelchin). In a plot development that now looks very appropriate for the Trump era, the US immigration department sends her home to London and the pair are forced to try their relationship from afar – though Jacob’s colleague Samantha (Jennifer Lawrence) has other plans for him. PHToday’s best live sportSnooker: World Grand Prix 12.45pm, ITV4Coverage of day four of the tournament. The evening session, featuring the quarter finals, is at 6.45pm.Super League Rugby League: St Helens v Leeds 7pm, Sky Sports 1The opening game of the season.World Rally Championship: Sweden 10.30pm, BT Sport 1Stage one (Karlstad) of Rally Sweden, the second round of the FIA World Rally Championship.