While it may sound poetic, Enabling Enterprise was not born in a flash of inspiration. Rather it emerged from my desperate attempts as a naïve new business studies teacher to engage a class of challenging 14 and 15-year-olds.Through my time spent with this class I became increasingly aware that there were key elements missing in their prescribed business course. Namely, there was no practical element, few opportunities for students to develop their employability skills, and limited real world application.As a solution to this I decided to take students to visit some businesses and meet the employees who worked there. The law firm Freshfields and the investment bank UBS were the first two. Then, back in the classroom, students would apply all they had learned in a collaborative challenge; to set up their own small business.From such a simple starting point back in 2009, Enabling Enterprise has become one of the fastest growing social enterprises. Here are six lessons I have learned from the experience.Lesson 1. Keep a sense of proportionNothing is ever as bad as it first seems: the highs and lows of social enterprise, particularly as a founder, can be acute. It's a sector where it can easily feel that much of the success of the organisation is outside of your control. We've missed out on funding that felt almost guaranteed, lost staff unexpectedly and overstretched ourselves on difficult contracts.Conversely, nothing is ever as good as it seems either. It's easy to ride a surge of enthusiasm when something goes well – a great meeting, a successful funding application or a brilliant hire. It's easy to mentally turn a minor achievement into a break-through moment.The reality is that building a successful and sustainable social enterprise will be a slog and it's important to keep a sense of proportion – some days will be better than others, but it's about every step.Lesson 2. Be ambitious – for your organisationAt Enabling Enterprise, since we began we've always set ourselves challenging targets. It's these ambitious targets that have seen us grow from working with a single class in 2009 to over 35,000 students this year.However, as a social entrepreneur, it is important that your personal ambition does not take over. According to research, organisations that do best are those where the chief executive fully invests their ego in the success of their organisation, rather than personal accomplishments.Lesson 3. Measure the right type of impactIt's easy to be sucked in to wanting to be the "next big thing". However, making an impact is not the same as getting the public's attention. Or how many awards, Facebook likes or Twitter followers you have.Resources in social enterprises will always be tight – and it is the duty of the social entrepreneur to make sure that every drop of resource has the greatest possible impact. Starting with a robust and honest impact assessment framework is essential.Lesson 4. Remember your mission, but change everything elseWhile we've tried to finesse the wording over time, Enabling Enterprise has always had the same mission: to ensure that all students leave school equipped with the skills, experience, and aspirations to succeed.However, the way we work to achieve this has changed a lot over time: we started by targeting students with our enterprise programme for 14-16 year olds. Over the intervening couple of years we developed programmes with primary age students, ran summer schools, and created after-school clubs.Some of these worked better than others, and the programmes we use today have evolved over time to combine the best elements. The result has been a hugely improved level of impact for the young people we work with.Lesson 5. Bring others with youNever forget that all successes are a team effort. At Enabling Enterprise, the organisation would be nothing without a brilliant staff team: teachers, funders and business partners. No one can achieve any meaningful social impact at scale without the support, collaboration and hard work of a lot of partners.Lesson 6. Don't lose touchFinally though, it's essential as a social entrepreneur to stay in touch with the frontline of what your organisation does. For me, that means finding the time to leave the office and join the team on the ground.Another important reason for doing this is that it will revitalise you. Looking back, the times that I've found most challenging, and where my spirits have flagged have been those times when I have allowed myself to focus on the numbers rather than spending time with students. There is limited satisfaction in chasing and hitting a target, no matter how ambitious it feels.And there is real joy in seeing the impact of your work. For me, the happiest moments are seeing students excited and engaged in their learning. And it's important to think to yourself: this is why I started out.Tom Ravenscroft is the founder and chief executive of Enabling Enterprise. For more news, opinions and ideas about the social enterprise sector, join our community.