In 1996, Damien Nettles was just 16. On 2 November, he was on a night out in Cowes, on the Isle of Wight, with his friend Chris. The two teens had been at a party when they got bored, bought some cider, then decided to try their luck getting served in pubs. It didn’t go well, and they called it a night. Chris went home, while Damien headed to the high street and bought some chips. He was seen stumbling around until a few minutes past midnight. Then he simply vanished.His mother, Valerie, his father, sisters and brother still don’t know what happened. Nor do his friends. Nor – it seems – does anyone in the town. For almost 20 years, despite police investigations, arrests, private detectives and media reports, there have been no sightings of him. No one has been charged with any crime, and his body has never been found. It’s a case that is mysterious, but also heartbreaking – with a family left unable to hope or to grieve. Now, Damien’s disappearance is the subject of a BBC3 documentary by investigative reporters Alys Harte and Bronagh Munro. Heavily echoing Making a Murderer and Serial, the eight episodes follow the pair as they try to piece together new evidence and witness testimonies to reveal what happened that night. While the twanging music and brooding atmosphere echo its US counterparts, this is an altogether lower-budget and more time-pressed version. Yet it is still fascinating.Serial: listeners of podcast phenomenon turn detectives – with troubling results Over the phone from Dublin, Munro says the case jumped out at her. “I just don’t believe a 16-year-old boy can disappear from the middle of a high street ... No sightings. No crime scene. Nothing.” But it was Valerie – who has continued her own investigation for the last two decades – that made up her mind. “I was touched by her strength of character and resilience,” Munro says. “In Ireland, we have people who were disappeared in the Troubles, so I understand the grief, loss, and the feeling of being in limbo.”On the surface, Cowes could be any small town in the UK. But the island location – the ferry to the mainland had stopped running when Damien was last seen – adds another level to the puzzle. As the two women delved deeper into the disappearance, it became clear, says Munro, that Cowes has an “underbelly the postcards don’t show you”. As the show unfolds, the close-knit community comes to look sinister as the focus shifts on to the local drug dealers and chaotic addicts who ricochet around the town.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Damien’s mother, Valerie: ‘It’s the independent investigation I have always wanted but never got … and it forms a very clear picture.’ Photograph: BBCJust as compelling is the town’s attitude to the high-profile historic case. Friends and family still hold candlelight vigils and are so committed to finding out what happened that they have dug for his body in woodlands. The wider community, says Harte, feels a sense of shame that a child has never been found. But Damien’s vanishing has also become part of the town’s folklore.“This case did feel genuinely unusual,” says Harte. “There were so many stories and rumours and lies. That struck us quickly. People would sit and emphatically tell you something to be true, then it turned out they couldn’t have known it.“In some cases I think it was because it’s this dark, interesting story. People wanted a connection with it, in the way people try and link themselves to momentous situations.”Yet both women were convinced that some people were holding back. “There’s a phrase in Ireland: ‘The dogs on the street knew who did it,’” says Munro. “I was sure someone in this small community knew something.”Watching the documentary, it becomes clear how much detective work Valerie and her family have done themselves, and how much of a toll it has taken. “As a family we have been cheated out of a normal life,” she tells me quietly, over the phone from her home in Dallas, Texas. “There’s always this feeling of loss. As my children have grown up, I have been preoccupied with the case. I seem to spend my life in a quiet corner talking to people online – because I am the person doing most of [the investigation]. Now they have grown up and have their own children, I think they understand, but when they were younger there were times when they probably resented it.” From finding CCTV footage of Damien buying chips to discovering witnesses, the family drove the investigation forward while the police, she says, just assumed the child had run away.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Investigative journalists Bronagh Munro, left, and Alys Harte. Photograph: Adam Patteron/BBC“The police investigation was mishandled from day one,” she says, citing delays, the fact that the police lost vital CCTV footage of her son’s last moments, and that arrests and house searches did not take place until almost 14 years after he went missing. The police seemed to assume he had fallen into the sea, but the harbour master says that if that were the case, the body would have washed up long ago. Munro says the police did spend time and money on the investigation, making arrests and excavating possible burial sites. But for Valerie, all this meant was years of lurid rumours, false trails and dead ends – and always with the same names swirling around.“Not knowing leaves you empty and wondering, with a big empty space you can fill with all kinds of thoughts,” she says. “If he had been hit by a car or had a disease, it would not have been easy, but it would have been better than being left in this limbo. I need answers.”That is why, she says, she was happy to turn over all the data from the case over to Munro and Harte. “It’s the independent investigation I have always wanted but never got … and it forms a very clear picture.”For Munro and Harte, both seasoned investigative reporters who make films for Panorama, the programme brought its own challenges. “Normally, we spend three or four months researching before we make a film, but this time we wanted to make it a fly-on-the-wall ... We had no idea if anyone would talk to us.” The pair spent a year on the investigation, but the most intense time was the three months they spent on the island, teasing out new information, knocking on doors and even staking out those whose names have been raised in connection with Damien’s death. In this case, they said, being women was a distinct advantage. “You are the least threatening person who can turn up on their doorstep,” says Munro – before laughing. “Little do they know.”Chasing one informant, says Munro, took months of “early mornings, screaming, checking for wires. It got hot and heavy but sometimes determination wins.” Slowly, a frightening picture emerged. “Everything led us to certain places,” says Harte. “Over time, loyalties change, friendships end, consciences grow.” But, she says: “The story is far from over.”For Valerie, the investigation offered a real sense of hope. In the series, she cries as she talks about not knowing whether her son was calling for her in his last moments. Now, her hopes are poignantly small. “If I am lucky I will get bits of him back – body parts. That’s the best I can expect.”• Unsolved: The Boy Who Disappeared is on BBC3 on BBC iPlayer now. 