So now we know. Humanity’s Keatsian quest for the true meaning of beauty is effectively over, the subject sussed once and for all. It’s fully understood, in the same way particle physics fell into place when the Higgs boson was proven to exist. What makes you beautiful, asked the boy band. New York’s Cooper Hewitt Design Museum not only knows the answer but, like a medieval scholar identifying seven kinds of angel, has specified beauty’s seven varieties.To be fair to the Cooper Hewitt, it has done something brave here. The museum’s newly opened Design Triennial takes the elusive idea of “beauty” as its theme – a topic contemporary criticism too often shies away from. The celebration of beauty is seen as bourgeois, safe or – when it comes to human society – oppressive, in its association with rigid norms few of us can live up to. In art, it can be seen as premodern and regressive. Today’s art often aspires to be something more than beautiful – serious, critical, radical or “disturbing”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Formwork series by Industrial Facility, 2014. So full marks to this museum for taking on the beautiful, as it looks today, but it’s a shame they had to try to confine it in an intellectual straitjacket. The triennial is divided into seven sections illuminating seven kinds of modern beauty, echoing perhaps the seven archetypal stories some critics identify in literature. Here are the Cooper Hewitt’s categories: Extravagant, Transgressive, Emergent, Transformative, Ethereal, Intricate, Elemental.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Renaissance man … Leonardo Da Vinci’s The Vitruvian Man. Photograph: CorbisSeven kinds of beauty sure beats one. In the ancient Mediterranean world, sculptors calculated a “canon” of perfect human proportions, mirrored in its turn by the harmonious proportions of Greek and Roman temples. Leonardo da Vinci was just one of the Renaissance artists who subscribed to this idea of perfection. His famous Vitruvian Man is actually an illustration of the Greek canon of human proportions, as it was handed down to the Renaissance by the Roman author Vitruvius.The most troubling hymn to beauty in Renaissance art is a painting by Andrea Mantegna that now hangs in the Louvre. Mantegna’s Minerva Expelling the Vices portrays the gods and virtues as physically perfect beings and the vices as ugly and deformed: beauty is goodness, ugliness a sin. Yet this classical cult of beauty has been subverted again and again. In the Baroque era, Rubens slavered over roly-poly fleshy bodies; Rembrandt found beauty in old age and Velázquez painted noble portraits of the Spanish court dwarfs.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It’s a sin … Minerva Expelling the Vices by Andrea Mantegna. Photograph: Dea Picture Library/De Agostini/Getty ImagesToday we are once again seeing a revolution in attitudes to beauty. In the age of gender fluidity, images of feminine and masculine, abnormal and normal are spinning in a liberating kaleidoscope. This, I think, is what the Cooper Hewitt is really trying to get at. When you look more closely, its seven kinds of beauty are really just one kind – the new kind. Beauty in the 21st century is mobile, shifting and unconfined. It is strange and it is democratic – or if you like, “Extravagant, Transgressive, Emergent, Transformative, Ethereal...”None of these words can pin down the changing nature of beauty in our time. Yet this museum is right to make beauty the theme of its triennial. The oldest concept in the arts is also the most subversive, dangerous and contemporary.Beauty runs at the Cooper Hewitt Design Museum, New York, until 21 August 