In 1831, staring down the barrel of a publisher’s deadline, Victor Hugo did what any sane and responsible writer would do. He stripped off all his clothes and ordered his valet to lock them away in a trunk. If the clothes were unreachable, he could not go outside. If he could not go outside, then he would just have to work. So Hugo sat at his desk, nude but for a shawl; at once a pitiful joke and an inspiration to us all. He wrote The Hunchback of Notre Dame in a naked, humiliated, self-loathing funk.It should be stressed, of course, that what worked for Hugo might not work for everyone. Specifically, I suspect it would not work for Paterson, the serene, bus-driving hero of Jim Jarmusch’s new film. This is because Paterson does not agonise or procrastinate. He merely looks at the world with a contemplative half-smile and then writes perfectly clean copy inside his secret notebook; a few simple strokes and then the job is complete. I’m guessing most authors would regard Paterson with envy. More than a few will wind up actively hating his guts.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Before setting out as a film-maker, Jarmusch dreamed of becoming a poet. Paterson, then, is his romantic portrait of the road not travelled, in that it adopts a loving, almost holistic approach to the artist and his environment. Paterson the man (ably played by Adam Driver) conveniently lives and works in Paterson, New Jersey, a drowsy post-industrial town, best known in literary circles as the home of William Carlos Williams. He rises each morning at 6am, drinks in the same bar every evening and appears to pluck his poems, fully formed, from his daily rounds. He is a contented soul with much, it transpires, to be content about. All of which makes him a rarity among movie artists. Possibly, it makes him a rarity in the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sean Connery in Finding Forrester. Photograph: Colombia TristarWhen films are made by creative types, it follows that they should be drawn towards depicting the life and work of other creative types. But the writer’s existence (all inner struggle; no visual drama) presents a unique set of hurdles. It’s so much easier to show someone splashing paint on a canvas or wringing a song from a guitar – if only because the work can be seen or heard in the moment and because the production of the art amounts to performance art in itself. The buskers in Once can cook up a song inside a Dublin music shop. Ed Harris can launch himself towards greatness as tortured Jackson Pollock. Try the same tack with a writer and the result risks being ludicrous. In the idiotic Finding Forrester, Sean Connery’s grizzled novelist urges his young protege to “punch the keys, for God’s sake” and roars “You’re the man now, dog!”, as though he’s Burgess Meredith coaching Rocky on the speed-bag. As though such behaviour is conducive to a legible, literate intro.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An Angel at My Table. Photograph: Ronald GrantIn the absence of a mentor bellowing “You’re the man now, dog”, movies about writers tend to follow one of two routes. Most conventionally, they can frame themselves as biopics, dressing up the often drab reality of their subject’s life and times while electing to leave the actual work in the books, presumably where it belongs. The Oscar-winning Life of Emile Zola focused on Zola’s heroic involvement in the Dreyfus affair, while films such as An Angel at My Table or Before Night Falls showed the interface of the young writer with the prosaic real world; the process by which the grit makes the pearl.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The writer’s life as exuberant fantasy: Barton Fink. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/Working TitleMore enjoyable, as a rule, are the films that play up the absurdist nature of the writer’s life; the ones that whisk exuberant fantasies out of such a sedentary and cerebral vocation. I’m thinking of poor Barton Fink, climbing the walls inside his run-down Hollywood digs or Misery’s Annie Wilkes, who makes a hobbled slave out of her favourite romantic novelist. This inevitably brings us to the sight of The Shining’s desperate Jack Torrance, incessantly typing “All work and no play” at the Overlook Hotel. And here, at long last, is a movie writer I relate to.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kathy Bates and James Caan in Misery. Photograph: Allstar/ColumbiaIs it telling that this – surely the most famous scene of a writer in film – is one that shows the writer not writing (or rather, writing in circles; typing in torment)? If so, that probably comes down to the logic of drama. Failure is more funny or scary than smooth-running success, which may explain why so many films have been at pains to depict writing as a kind of horror. The horror of being blocked, of not being able to write. The horror of the blank page that is both terrifying in its blankness and paralysing in its possibilities. In Charlie Kaufman’s sublime Adaptation, for instance, Nicolas Cage (playing Charlie Kaufman) drives himself to distraction with his fantastical efforts to script a film version of a bestselling book. Along the way, Kaufman revels in a world of humiliations and false starts. For good measure he also manages to effectively rewrite the old Thomas Edison quote. Genius (in this case) turns out to be nine-tenths procrastination to one-tenth masturbation.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nicolas Cage as Charlie Kaufman in Adaptation. Photograph: APPaterson, bless him, has no such issues to contend with. His life is fine. His poems (written by Oklahoma poet Ron Padgett) are works of facile beauty. Everything is sunny; almost suspiciously so. If Jarmusch’s film contains anything so crass as a message, it’s that the secret to complete artistic fulfilment is a modest outlook, a daily routine and a simpering wife who reckons you’re amazing. “You are a great, great poet,” she assures Paterson at one stage.All of which appeared to do the trick at this year’s Cannes film festival, where Paterson was received by the critics with a rapture that might otherwise be reserved for the receipt of a lifetime achievement award. Here, finally, was a film that ennobled the business of putting words on a page and insisted that great art is great art, whether anybody actually reads it or not. Or to put it another way, here was a film that told the writers in the cinema what they have always wanted to hear.Paterson review: Adam Driver's poetic bus driver proves safe pair of hands None of which is to suggest that Paterson is not sweet-tempered and charming. I just wish it had resisted the temptation to lay on the soft-soap. It’s not so much that the film presents Paterson as altogether too good to be true, given that the man is a great poet and the rest of us aren’t. It’s more that it chooses to paint Paterson (the town) in much the same way – as a colourful playground full of lovelorn barflies and harmless eccentrics. Maybe Jarmusch is presenting the place as an extension of his hero’s psyche? Maybe the poems have inspired the town as opposed to the other way round? But this interesting idea is never fully developed; the fabulous landscape remains in its shrink-wrap. The whole thing is too tidy, too cosy, too abidingly in love with itself. In turning its back on the Hollywood cliches, Paterson only risks peddling a new line in fiction.The sad fact, perhaps, is that writers work best when they are kept at arm’s length from the camera. Sit these people at a laptop and they can conjure up conflict and resolution, comedy and tragedy; all of the elements that a good picture requires. But it takes them for ever to file and the business of writing is rarely pretty to watch. The late Leonard Cohen reportedly took five whole years to write Hallelujah, banging his head on the floor in frustration when the words wouldn’t come. That, I suspect, is the true life of the writer. The trying and failing and then the trying again. It’s the real humdrum horror that the movies won’t show.Paterson is released in the UK on 25 November.