“I don’t want to scene-steal,” Felicity Montagu tells me. But perhaps she just can’t help herself, given the whirlwind of accents – Aussie, northern, estuary, RP – that she uses to animate her anecdotes in our hour together. Certainly, she has pinched scenes from some of comedy’s biggest names – whether as Lynn, the tight-lipped, long-suffering PA to Alan Partridge, or as Sue, the voluptuous, cake-scoffing vicar’s wife in Nighty Night. Then there’s that hugely satisfying scene in the first Bridget Jones film, where Montagu’s sloaney Perpetua – all Alice band, pearls and raised eyebrows – rises sharply from her swivel chair to witness Bridget quit her job. “Because if she gives one inch,” snarls Perpetua, “I’m going to fire her bony little bottom anyway for being totally spineless!”We meet in a south London rehearsal room where Montagu is preparing to appear on stage in a new adaptation of the book that inspired Bridget Jones: Pride and Prejudice. She plays – who else? – Mrs Bennet, joining the roll-call of character actors from Alison Steadman to Brenda Blethyn who have brought those infamous Longbourn nerves to life. The danger, Montagu says, “is overplaying the comedy. Mrs Bennet is a woman who is just ferociously in a hurry to get her five daughters married because of the poorhouse. If her husband dies, she knows she could be out on her arse.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Felicity Montagu in I’m Alan PartridgeFrom Armando Iannucci to Julia Davis, Montagu has worked with some of the best comedy writers in the business – and Jane Austen is no different. That is to say, she’s brutally honest, sometimes to the point of cruelty. But Montagu balks in rehearsals when people say how awful her character is. “No! Mrs Bennet just comes from her own perspective. She’s really only herself at three in the morning when she’s pacing the bedroom or the parlour, worrying about stuff. She wants to make things happen, but she gets things wrong. She’s headstrong and temperamental. And she’s very attention-seeking because, socially, she’s feels quite inadequate.”As for Austen, Montagu thinks she was “a very profound writer, but I don’t think I’d have liked her as a person. She had a very cruel eye on women. And some of her characters are so sententious, like Elizabeth Bennet. She’s not funny, she’s serious. She’s a good girl but I do think: lighten up, love! People take themselves so seriously, people who are control freaks, people who are narcissists. Life is too short – I lost my mother, just like that. I was lucky I was 29. I wasn’t 13, I wasn’t eight. But you have to treasure what you have and be joyful, as much as you can. And when terrible things happen to you, you have to say, well, just let’s move on and shut the doors on it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Felicity Montagu (centre) in rehearsal for Pride and Prejudice at Regent’s Park theatre in London. Photograph: Johan PerssonThe youngest of five children, Montagu grew up in Yorkshire, her mother a beguiling, intellectual woman from Brisbane, her British father an army man from a long line of army men, who served in Burma and India before going into industry. The pair met on a blind date at a party. “She stood at the top of the steps and he knew she was the one,” says Montagu. “Even if they fought like buggery sometimes.” Three months after her mother died of cancer, Montagu gave birth to a daughter, Olivia. A son, Luke, followed. She is divorced from their father, TV and radio producer Alan Nixon, but “we’re still a team” she says. “My children make me laugh a lot.”She and Olivia recently teamed up for a BBC Radio 4 series, Guilt Trip, in which they played a fictional mother and daughter on a two-week sponsored walk along the Thames Path. The show was inspired by a package holiday they had taken to Fuerteventura in the Canary Islands. “We’ve always had a rough and tumble relationship,” says Montagu. “Forever catching up with each other because I was grieving when I gave birth and then I got very ill and was in hospital for weeks.” A pre-fame Gina Ford, the childcare guru, was Olivia’s baby nurse. “She was whipped away and taken home because I couldn’t breastfeed her. It was a strange beginning.”Montagu had an easier start. Her mother sent her to dance lessons from an early age – “she didn’t want me to get fat” – while her father marched her to the bank manager when, at 18, she announced she wanted to act. Despite his reservations, he agreed to be her guarantor and Montagu made good on the loan. After drama school, she was cast in Terry Johnson’s Unsuitable for Adults at the Bush in London. Roles at the Royal Court and the National followed before the first of many television credits, on Victoria Wood Presents. “Bless her cotton socks,” she says of the late comedian. “She’s a terrible loss for my generation. As a woman, she made an enormous impact. She got out there and really did it.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rowan Atkinson as St John Quartermaine and Felicity Montagu as Melanie Garth in Quartermaine’s Terms, directed by Richard Eyre, in 2013. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianMontagu’s CV is also characterised by women-led casts and companies – from the black TV comedy Suburban Shootout to the recent Ann Summers drama, Brief Encounters – but she’ll always be recognised for Alan Partridge. Thinking she was up for a bit part, she went to the audition just to meet Iannucci and Steve Coogan. To her disappointment, neither turned up. Instead, she was asked to improvise a spiel about Lynn’s home life and, on the spot, concocted a whole backstory about her mum not approving of her boss. Improvisation, she says, comes easily. “I just lie against a tree and start fantasising because it’s fun. It doesn’t seem like work to me.”Coogan is a “pixie” – her word – but a great teacher. “Not that I’m going to talk much about him,” she says, a tad defensively of her much scrutinised co-star, “but I learned a lot. Steve talks about stakes and intentions and objectives – there’s an underbelly that needs to be there. If the comedy is going to work you have to play the subtext; the fears and the follies. Even Tom and Jerry – it’s fantastically funny, but it starts from the truth.”The Partridge team were “pushing the limits all the time”, she says. “They take it deadly seriously because it’s a deadly serious business. But I would always give them something if they wanted it.” She cites an example she’s particularly proud of: “I nicked some of those little blue plastic shoe covers you get at the swimming pool. I thought it would be funny if Lynn walked on to Alan’s building site wearing them. I kept waiting and waiting for my chance. Armando said: ‘In!’ And I walked in with those on my feet and the whole floor just fell apart.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘If the comedy is going to work you have to play the subtext’ … Felicity Montagu. Photograph: Felix Clay for the GuardianThanks to her screen success, Montagu had a long hiatus from the stage until, three years ago, Richard Eyre wrote to her asking her to be in his revival of Simon Gray’s Quartermaine’s Terms opposite Rowan Atkinson in the West End. She hid the note. “My agent called and said: ‘Fliss, have you had a letter?” I said: ‘I get a lot of letters.’ He said: ‘Don’t fuck about with me, Felicity!’ Montagu cackles. “I knew I had to do it. My father said: ‘You must!’ Even my father had heard of Richard Eyre!”Eyre gave her a pep talk in the green room on press night. “I said: ‘Richard, this is the moment I’ve been absolutely dreading. Give me my notes.’ He said: ‘I have no notes. Go fuck ’em.’ So I did.” She and a fellow cast-member accidentally tripped over each other one night to huge laughter from the audience. “I thought: thank God Richard isn’t in. But at the end of the night, there he was with his little notebook and pencil. He went: ‘Fall good. Keep it in.’ I said: ‘But it was a mistake.’ He said: ‘IN, Felicity. In.’”Making a fool of herself is a pre-requisite for Pride and Prejudice, but she has a great partner in crime in Matthew Kelly as her stage husband. How did Mr and Mrs Bennet ever end up together? “Well, she used to be very pretty,” says Montagu. “There was definitely sex. But as my dear, beloved father used to say: ‘It’s only once you get through the sex and find other things in common that you’re on safe lines.”• Pride and Prejudice is at Regent’s Park theatre, London, until 17 September, then touring until 25 February.