In my cheekier moments, I describe my new novel The Dark Days Club as Pride and Prejudice meets Buffy, or Georgette Heyer goes demon hunting.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? The Dark Days Club follows the adventures of Lady Helen in her first London Season and is a mix of Regency adventure and supernatural thriller with just a dash of dashing romance. I trace my obsession with the Regency (which runs from 1811 to 1820, when King George III was deemed unfit to rule and his son, the Prince of Wales, ruled instead as Prince Regent) back to when I was 12 years old and my mother gave me my first Georgette Heyer novel. I was immediately besotted by Heyer’s historically accurate beau monde world. I spent the entire summer curled up on the sofa reading 12 of her novels, imagining myself in her beautifully recreated 1800s London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alison Goodman has been obsessed by Georgette Heyer’s novels since she was 12 years old. Photograph: E.O. Hopp/E.O. Hopp /CorbisWhen I finally decided to write my own Regency novel, I wanted to make it historically accurate too. I wanted my reader to walk along Piccadilly with Lady Helen, ride beside her on Rotten Row in Hyde Park, and dance with a demon at the famously exclusive club, Almacks. That meant research, and a lot of it; my idea of heaven. I’ve always been a facts magpie, picking up shiny bits of information to hoard. Below you’ll find ten of my favourite shiny facts about the Regency period that I discovered on the way to creating Lady Helen’s world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alison Goodman: I’ve always been a facts magpie, picking up shiny bits of information to hoard. Photograph: PRA popular cure-all of the time was to drink seawater mixed with milk.Lord Byron became an overnight literary success in March 1812 with his epic poem Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage. He was so admired that many young ladies carried miniature portraits and cameos of him around with them – a Regency version of a band poster on the bedroom wall. Pineapples were very exotic and so expensive that hostesses used them as centerpieces on their dinner tables to show their wealth. They were hardly ever eaten as they were too precious and were often passed from hostess to hostess to use as decoration until they rotted.Murder scenes were considered entertainment. The public was allowed to visit a murder scene and file past the deceased. In some high-profile cases, thousands of people viewed the victim, tramping over any crime scene evidence. The body of the victim would eventually be taken to the nearest pub and stored in the cool room until the coroner arrived. The Prince Regent was so fond of Martha Gunn – a famous Brighton dipper, who operated a bathing machine and helped ladies in and out of the sea – that he gave her free access to his kitchens at the Brighton Pavilion until she died at the age of 89. Ice cream was a favourite Regency confection and made from ice that had been saved from winter and kept in an icehouse or from imported ice. One of the most fashionable Regency flavours was parmesan cheese Regency society decreed that a lady must not walk or ride along St James Street in London where a number of the famous men’s clubs such as Whites, Boodles and Brook’s were situated. A lady risked her reputation and being impertinently ogled if she dared venture into this male precinct. It cost at least £15 – an average working man’s yearly wage – to light a ballroom with wax candles for one night. Candles were sold in four-hour or six-hour burn lengths, and they dictated the length of the ball. One can imagine the delight of walking into a ballroom and finding the room ablaze with six-hour candles, and the disappointment of finding only the four-hour kind in the candelabra.  The idea of the “celebrity” chef emerged during the Regency with the most famous being Marie-Antoine Carême who charged astronomical amounts of money for his services, wrote bestselling cookbooks and was employed by both Napoleon and the Prince Regent. The Vauxhall Pleasure Gardens – a huge enclosed garden where all classes could enjoy music, art and refreshments – was lit by thousands of oil lamps hung on trees, lamps posts and buildings. Every night, the lamps were lit all at once in a breathtaking display that must have seemed miraculous in a time when candlelight was the main source of illumination. A fuse cleverly connected each line of lamps, and a small army of men would creep into position with tapers ready to light them. When the whistle sounded, tapers would be touched to fuses, and the tyranny of darkness would be expelled in a blaze of light.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Alison Goodman’s The Dark Days Club is out now, and available from the Guardian bookshop. 