Last year Melbourne unveiled a high-rise with a colossal portrait of 19th century Aboriginal leader and social justice campaigner William Barak. Wurundjeri elders had collaborated with the building’s architects. Once “the voice of the 19th century”, declared elder Aunty Joy Murphy, Barak was “now the face of the 21st”.But not everyone was happy. Some expressed dismay that Barak’s portrait had been used – showing images of the deceased is disrespectful in many Aboriginal cultures. Others saw it as merely misguided and tokenistic. Skin-deep. A facade.Hotspots, virtual reality and apps lead the way in Indigenous startups “That it’s a high-rise residential, a development, a commercialisation of culture, does that sit comfortably with me?” asks Dillon Kombumerri, Australia’s first known registered Aboriginal architect. “Probably not. But it’s the first time that something like that has been done.”Love it or hate it, the block prompted heated debate. Namely, how can Australia’s first nations people put their stamp on to buildings in a modern, bustling city? And how, exactly, do we define Indigenous architecture? As Jefa Greenaway, 45, founder of the not-for-profit Indigenous Architecture Victoria, has written, “Gone are the days of hanging a boomerang on a wall and saying, ‘That’s Aboriginal.’”Indigenous architects face challenges beyond cliches and patronisation or the propelling of stereotypes. According to Greenaway’s estimations, only 13 Indigenous architects have graduated from architectural schools in Australia. “What it means is that anyone operating as an architect is very much a trailblazer,” notes Greenaway, the only registered Indigenous architect practising in Victoria. “We are encountering aspects which, until now, really haven’t been discussed within the community much.” In the past, Indigenous peoples had their lands forcibly taken from them. For some, architecture is a way to reclaim it. Linda Kennedy is one aspiring Indigenous architect completing a masters at the University of Melbourne. “I can’t and I won’t separate the politics of Aboriginality and Aboriginal history in Australia from architects and from design work,” Kennedy said on a panel at last year’s Sydney Architecture festival.For Kennedy, architecture is another form of Indigenous activism: “Upon invasion there was this idea of terra nullius – a land belonging to no one. And I believe that’s why architecture today ignores a lot of Aboriginal knowledge in design.”“We have over 60,000 years of knowledge and culture and value embedded in this country across every Aboriginal nation. There is immense value in that.”Meanwhile, Australia’s history of cultural genocide has led to a deprivation in knowledge, with building techniques and design ethos stamped out or lost. Paul Pholeros, architect who helped reduce Indigenous poverty, dies at 62 Gregory Burgess, a non-Indigenous architect who has worked closely with Aboriginal communities, believes one problem is a “gap” between traditional Indigenous culture and contemporary expressions. “Movements in architecture tend to be in the modernist stream,” he explains. Historically Indigenous architecture, however, inhabited a far more animated and responsive space – it was something “very improvised and ephemeral”. That in some Aboriginal languages there is no word for “architecture” – only “shelter” – is telling.Critical today is not imposing or dictating solutions but collaborating with communities, says Burgess. He spent a month living in Uluru – toing and froing with ideas drawn in the sand by locals – before designing his celebrated rusty-red 1990s Uluru-Kata Tjuta Cultural Centre. There he discovered a land animated with stories. An epic battle between two giant snakes was said to have taken place on the exact spot the centre now sits. To reflect this, its gray shingle roof appears like liquid mercury, snakes’ twisting torsos, and the shifting desert dunes.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Uluru-Kata Tjuta Cultural Centre in the Northern Territory. Photograph: Jimmy Yang“It’s not simply a matter of mimicking traditional Indigenous forms,” asserts the architect. “It’s about the spirit of place and a kind of animated aliveness, a living quality and responsiveness. How do you pick up a thread of continuity and reverence?” he asks. “The sacred, the humour, and the sociability – it’s a sharing culture.”Kevin O’Brien, a professor of design at Queensland University of Technology, believes the origin of space has to be found in the Aboriginal notion of country. He is founder of Finding Country, a mapping project which erases European concepts of space – defined by “property” – to reveal the Aboriginal country that exists beneath.But O’Brien is wary of trying to appease past grievances with symbolic acts, such as the Barak high-rise, which can come across as “vacuous”. The “Indigenous architecture” label, too, can be misleading. “Like all architecture you get a complete spectrum,” he insists. “I think architecture is just architecture – the minute [one] puts a label into it, it plays into stereotype.” I think architecture is just architecture – the minute [one] puts a label into it, it plays into stereotypeKevin O’Brien Through his Brisbane-based architecture firm, O’Brien collaborates with the traditional custodians of the land to source sustainable materials. For his recently completed Aboriginal Medical Service building in Casino, New South Wales, O’Brien searched for months for a brick created from the local soil. Called Ebony, the Bundjalung Country brick is a mottled black and dark grey and looks burnt, “like a fire had just gone past”.Living structures have always varied across Australia’s different Indigenous nations and the country’s vastly disparate landscapes and climates: from stringybark wiltjas (shelters) to round grass thatched houses and egg-shaped stone structures. Whale bones were plied together to create scaffolding for homes along the coast in South Australia, while tree limbs were used in the arid and land-locked Western Desert. Materials ranged from cane in the humid rainforests of Queensland to basalt stones around Lake Condah, Victoria.In the city concrete has crept over the land, disguising the forces of nature, and channelling country becomes a greater challenge. Late last year, Melbourne’s Koorie Heritage Trust moved from the city’s fringes to its metaphorical and physical heart in Federation Square. Jefa Greenaway worked closely on the design. On a sizzling summer afternoon the Indigenous architect – sporting a crisp white shirt, glasses, and a long greying ponytail on his wiry frame – provides a guided tour.Greenaway wants to showcase a live, evolving culture through a modern building. Indigenous society, he insists, is not static or stationary or stuck in the past; it is evolving, adapting and growing. A key element is rejecting lazy misconceptions. While dot painting is often a fallback for representing Aboriginal culture, it is not traditionally practised by nations of the Victoria region. Greenaway favoured line work for the trust’s building instead.He also had to find a way to reference the scar tree that sat in the former building. Scar trees were traditionally stripped of their bark to make canoes; an example of communities taking only what they needed, leaving nature – in this case the trunk – to flourish and live. He commissioned a vast seven-metre-long table whose red gum veneer mimics bark and shape mimics a canoe.Greenaway admits modern Indigenous architecture is still very much in its infancy. Yet he, and others, are working towards more empowerment and more emancipation, from designing challenging buildings to creating mentorships for young architects.The block bearing William Barak’s face is controversial, but it has also opened up conversation. Stand beneath the high-rise and his image is unclear, a fuzzy, jumbled mess. It only comes into focus from further down the road.