I was shocked when I heard that Simon Relph had died unexpectedly at the weekend. He was a colossal influence on many of us breaking through in the British film industry in the 1980s and 90s. He was also a terrific man who supported young writers, directors and producers throughout his career. I first met Simon when I was buying films for my distribution company Palace; having just finished making The Company of Wolves I had ambitions to produce more films. Simon was a big bear of a man with a huge ornamental chain around his neck and a booming voice to match: old-fashioned and posh but with a twinkling eye, like a benign lord mayor from the free state of Pimlico. (It’s entirely typical that his only directorial credit was the 1984 documentary How to Enjoy Wine, featuring wine writer Hugh Johnson.) He wanted us to release his production of David Hare’s Wetherby, and I wanted him to produce Mona Lisa with me as I was embroiled in Absolute Beginners. Although he couldn’t work on Mona Lisa, it was the start of a great relationship that Simon shared with many of my generation, exchanging and pooling ideas and contacts. It is no exaggeration to say that Simon was in the vanguard of the revival of British cinema after its nadir in the 1970s.Little did I know that Simon had seen the glory days in the 40s and 50s, albeit from a child’s perspective: his father Michael was immersed in the Ealing universe producing, directing, designing and writing some seminal British films, including Dead of Night, Kind Hearts and Coronets and The Blue Lamp.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A test of mettle … Jon Finch in Roman Polanski’s Macbeth. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/ColumbiaSimon’s first proper job was as a menial third assistant director on Carry On Cruising and Doctor in Distress in the early 60s, rising to first AD on Roman Polanski’s troubled 1971 adaptation of Macbeth. He needed a cool head to balance the production: Playboy owner Hugh Hefner would helicopter in bags of cash to finance the film when they ran out of money. He became Warren Beatty’s rock and confidant on the epic communist saga Reds (1982) as first assistant director and executive producer: while Beatty won an Oscar for best director, Simon miraculously held together a production that ballooned well beyond its original schedule, with the film eventually being edited down from two and a half million feet of footage – probably a world record. Simon’s patience was, apparently, bottomless. As was his friendship and devotion to Beatty.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer forThe Ploughman’s LunchHis producing career took off with another politically themed, smaller-budgeted but no less significant movie: The Ploughman’s Lunch. Created by the team of director Richard Eyre, writer Ian McEwan and producer Ann Scott alongside Simon, its slyly intelligent view of Thatcher’s Britain during the Falklands crisis was a critical success and a small box-office splash in UK and internationally. Alongside early films from Stephen Frears, Neil Jordan and Peter Greenaway, it persuaded Channel Four to seriously invest in British production by affirming their commitment to the continuation and expansion of Film4.Simon was appointed as the CEO of British Screen Finance in 1985 (one of the few times before or since that a nuts-and-bolts film-maker was given a pivotal role in funding); and he remained there for five years during which he co-financed more than 50 films. Many of them were with first-time directors, all the the while fighting tooth and nail for proper government finance for lower budget British films.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Political implications … Joanne Whalley and John Hurt in Scandal, 1989. Photograph: Everett Collection / Rex Features He was the godfather to a whole generation of aspiring film-makers, sticking his neck out when needed He also brought his unique experience and bountiful optimism to the ears of any young film-maker lucky enough to be in his orbit. After The Company of Wolves, I regularly called on Simon for recommendations and advice: with every penny he invested came a million pounds-worth of knowledge and wisdom, charmingly and eruditely bestowed. He was the godfather to a whole generation of aspiring film-makers, sticking his neck out when needed. I had personal experience of this in 1988 when he backed Palace’s production Scandal, the story of Christine Keeler and the Profumo affair. At the time, the BBC and Channel Four were frightened of the political implications of upsetting the Thatcher regime, and without his backing it would never have been made, Simon was seemingly imbued with that British humanitarian sense of fairness, fair play – and fearlessness. Along with Film4 we combined often in an unspoken conspiracy to bring new British cinema – including films by Mike Leigh, Derek Jarman and Ken Loach – to the attention of critics and public alike.In the 1990s Simon bought his gifts – not least of all his old-school diplomacy – to making Bafta a home for film-makers, shaking up the awards so that they represented modern cinema both British and international. Reflecting the desires of film-makers themselves, he was again standing in the vanguard of change to transform what many considered a backward-looking organisation. For a decade, Simon and I worked together as co-chairs of the film committee: his honest, forthright views and his innate sense of justice for the industry and its practitioners helped put Bafta where it is today, as second only to America’s Academy in profile and importance in the awards calendar.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest His influence as one of the few honest, clear and resonant voices in our often muddled and hypocritical industry will be felt for decades to come. He was a dignified, principled and selfless film-maker in an often undignified and confused industry. He will be missed by many of us and we would do well to try to emulate his kindness, passion and dedication to the art of cinema. 