It was when British Museum curator St John Simpson was walking recently through the streets of Tehran, carrying a bundle of postcards, that he realised he was holding a form of information technology that was rapidly becoming history.“They were all written and ready to post, but I could not find a post office or anywhere to buy stamps. I asked a group of young lads standing on a street corner, but while they were very interested in who I was and what I was doing there, none of them had any idea where you might buy a postage stamp or even where to find a letter box,” said SimpsonSimpson started formally collecting postcards of the Middle East – from vintage black-and-white images of camels and palm trees to colourful images boasting the region’s embrace of shopping centres, dual carriageways and power stations – as soon as he got back to the museum in Bloomsbury, central London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This vignette of a caravan connecting Aden with its Yemeni hinterland illustrates how valuable postcards are as illustrations of everyday events as well as places. This card dates from when Aden was a British colony.He spends many of his weekends scouring antique fairs and postcard auctions, and has been spending modest amounts of museum money to build up the collection. Since word filtered out, postcards have come pouring in from members of the public: every mosque dome, traffic-choked highway, beach and hotel swimming pool solemnly catalogued and filed neatly away.The written word communicated through the post is particularly important to Simpson, who refuses to carry a mobile phone or wear a wristwatch. But even he acknowledges that the great age of the postcard, cheap to buy and post, sent in their millions across the world for more than a century – some conveying urgent messages, most with banal holiday wishes – is coming to an end.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Used cards like this are sometimes more poignant as they capture personal messages as well as styles of handwriting and snapshots of postal history.“Postcards have been very little studied as historical sources,” he says. “Yet they are an insight into how countries choose to project themselves – which often changes very much during the course of the 20th century – and what aspects of those countries visitors are interested in.”The scale of his new collection is potentially vast: he is primarily collecting cards related to his own Middle East department, but also taking in the former Ottoman empire, which runs far into Europe, and collecting for his Egyptian department colleagues. Already a filing cupboard is full of neat grey shoebox-sized containers, each holding 5,000 postcards, and Simpson is starting to sneak items from the collection into exhibitions in the museum. He is perfectly happy to accumulate multiple copies of the same card, seeing each as a unique historical document even if only the postmark and a few words of the greeting differ. “The value of an individual object becomes greater as part of a collection,” he insists, looking fondly at several views of a particularly ugly modern hotel.Most postcard collectors prefer mint cards, Simpson prefers them stamped and postmarked, written on, even annotated on the picture side, or with sticky-tape scars and drawing-pin punctures showing how they were treasured by the recipients. Categories are beginning to emerge: colonial types lolling on the desert sand while a local man in traditional dress patiently holds the camel; shoemakers and water sellers; coffee stalls and women in exotic costumes, some looking deeply uncomfortable, some – Simpson is pretty certain – actually men dressing up.Others share his view that the end of an era is closer than most people realise as they capture a view with a smartphone camera. Timothy Insoll, professor of African and Islamic architecture at Manchester University, has just sent him a bundle of cards from Bahrain, noting: “Sadly they are fast disappearing from the shops, so I bought an example of everything I could find.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Senior curator St John Simpson with a collection of postcards from the Middle East sent to the British Museum. Photograph: Linda Nylind/the GuardianAnother academic has interrogated colleagues about their postcard habits and discovered that many of the younger ones have never sent or received one.Scraps of histories, their beginning and end unknown, are often captured in the cards. A man called Leonard wrote from Algiers in 1922 on a postcard of a particularly wretched looking group titled Campement des Nomades, the father holding back the tent flap so the camera could see his uncomfortable-looking family. Leonard apparently noticed none of this, and wrote chirpily: “Don’t they look a happy family? We’ll have one like this.”Simpson loves them all and welcomes them into one of the greatest museum collections in the world: “It is the easiest way of achieving a kind of immortality, by donating something which becomes part of the great collections of the British Museum.”