Fathers4Justice staged another of its misogynist demos yesterday, briefly barging into the studio of ITV’s Loose Women while it was on air, claiming the programme denigrates men. They waved £20 notes and Y-fronts printed with “Pants to the CSA” in a protest calling on fathers to boycott the Child Maintenance Service (replacing the old Child Support Agency), which they say “has reduced dads to the status of cashpoints and sperm banks”. Why now? Because it’s Father’s Day on Sunday.Never forget: half of absent fathers pay nothing towards raising their children | Polly Toynbee However, a boycott by its members may be barely noticed by the mothers who receive no maintenance at all for their children. If separated mothers weren’t so hard pressed trying to earn a living and care for their children alone, it should be them storming the TV studios and standing on roofs to protest at the extraordinary failure of successive governments to get fathers to pay what they owe towards their children.The CSA/CMS has fallen out of the news these days, as the government hopes it will be forgotten. But I get letters from desperate mothers, such as Emma, from Sunderland. She’s had “not a penny” from her child’s father for two years, so he now owes her over £5,000. Did the CMS help? Not at all. They wrote to her – as they do now to all mothers (91% of parents with care are mothers) – to ask if she would write off the debt. The official letter to mothers suggests they make their own private arrangements with fathers, saying: “Some clients in a similar position to you tell us that they do not want their child maintenance to be managed by the new organisation and wish to make a fresh start by writing off their arrears.” No equivalent letter was sent to fathers suggesting they clear their past debt by paying it.As cases are transferred over from the CSA to the CMS, the aim is to get as many as possible off the books altogether, both current payments and arrears, by charging mothers for the service. It works, as mothers despair and give up. Some 90% of CSA cases have now been transferred over to the CMS, but only 13% of mothers affected have decided to pay the new fees and apply to the CMS: the DWP must be pleased, as it had publicly estimated that 63% would pursue their claims. All the pressure in official letters is to deter mothers. The £20 fee may be a mild block, along with charging fathers 4%, but the evidence suggests mothers just give up when prodded by these letters.Child maintenance changes risk giving a green light to coercion | Sophie Heawood As the CMS closes down old cases, 70% still have unpaid arrears that are being officially forgotten – though not by the mothers who have struggled over the years without support. The government has the power to attach the earnings of fathers, but many avoid it. Emma’s former partner’s employer – a large company – failed to fill out the forms to get his debt deducted at source, causing delay, and then it let him declare himself self-employed, despite still working for the same company, to avoid it altogether.Gingerbread, a national charity for single parents, has a new report out today. Reviewing the latest official statistics it says: “The CSA’s disastrous record in collecting unpaid child maintenance has led to almost £4bn of outstanding arrears.” The DWP’s latest estimate is that only £467m is ever likely to be recovered. Nearly half of fathers in the system owe unpaid maintenance, uncollected by the new CMS, with 90,000 not paying in just the last three months. The new system has already clocked up £52.5m in unpaid maintenance and fewer than half the eligible children receive anything at all.This ought to matter to the DWP, as nearly half of single-parent families live below the poverty line. Analysis by Gingerbread shows that for the poorest families, receipt of child maintenance lifts one in five out of poverty. At a time when austerity cuts are set to leave single parents with a loss of £1,300 in income by 2020/21 as a result of tax and welfare changes, fathers’ financial support is even more important. The Institute for Fiscal Studies calculates that poverty rates for single-parent families will double by 2020 – but 330,000 families have outstanding debts owing. Despite now charging for the new service, the CMS is collecting only 53% of the maintenance due to those who do sign up.Gingerbread chief executive Fiona Weir says: “Britain’s child maintenance system is contributing to a culture where too many parents think it’s optional, rather than obligatory, to pay their child’s maintenance. The accumulated level of CSA arrears is staggering. The government cannot walk away from its obligation to collect the millions owed.”Why isn’t this debt regarded as seriously as fraud or tax avoidance? If this money owing were from benefit cheats, the DWP would have them all in jail by now, with the Daily Mail blasting the story on its front page. But newsrooms are silent on defaulting fathers. If anyone doubts that society remains run by and for men, the quiet story of fathers being allowed to get away with refusal to pay for their children should be evidence enough.