In the late afternoon sunshine outside the Fader Fort, the mood is growing tense as hundreds of people are coming to the growing realization that they’re unlikely to get in to see the “secret” headliner Drake. The lucky few inside, however, are treated to a triumphant set by the confusingly punctuated Anderson .Paak, protege of Dr Dre and former worker on a marijuana farm. With no one leaving before Drake gets here, .Paak has the golden opportunity of a captive audience and wraps both arms and legs around it. His music is a propulsive melange of hip-hop and soul that culminates in the irresistible strut of Am I Wrong. By the time it morphs into David Bowie’s Let’s Dance, the crowd are sold. If .Paak doesn’t become huge, something will have gone very wrong.Despite impeccable hipster credentials – Kelela’s languorous psychedelic soul struggled to match .Paak for impact. She has worked with musicians and producers from London label Night Slugs and its American sister imprint Fade to Mind. Statuesque in a blue boiler suit, she makes slow-burning R&B with slightly ominous industrial overtones, the combination of crunching electronic drums and meandering, string-laced melodies sometimes calling to mind Homogenic-era Björk – who has praised her in the past. Rewind, from her Hallucinogen EP, picks up the pace, but the lack of anything resembling a decent tune means Kelela – for all her coolness – underwhelms.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If Kelela is a caress, Yo Gotti is the equivalent of being smacked over the head – brutal but it definitely makes an impression. Punctuated with the sound of (recorded) gunshots and with seven volumes of a mixtape titled Cocaine Muzik under his belt, the Memphis rapper is as rowdy as they come. Down in the DM, his no-messing ode to sexting, is a highlight with the social media-savvy crowd, its cries of “I love the ’Gram” seeming particularly pertinent as a crowd member carries aloft a massive frame that looks like an Instagram post. Concluding with Smile, whose lyrics “Put a smile on your face hater” make it perhaps the least sentimental song ever to bear that title, Yo Gotti has won over the crowd with sheer brute force. When Drake turned up he didn’t come alone. It was a label showcase for his imprint OVO with a selection of Drake’s proteges and hand-picked talent warming up the crowd that had been waiting most of the day to see him. Dvsn (pronounced Division) opened with a three-song set that showed off his very slow and very smooth R&B.Roy Wood$ was second on the bill and delivered slightly more up tempo R&B doused with trap beats and a sound that doffs its cap to Drake. He lists Drizzy alongside Michael Jackson, Nelly and The Weeknd among his influences and the latter’s more tripped out, hazy productions seemed to be an obvious touchstone. Wood$ was followed by OVO’s contenders in the EDM world, Majid Jordan. The duo of Majid Al Maskati and Jordan Ullman co-produced Drake’s Hold On, We’re Going Home and move between Drakean moody hip-hop and more danceable 4x4 styles. Al Maskati fronts the group while Ullman stays behind the decks while they worked their way through A Place Like This, My Love and Something About You.Partynextdoor was OVO’s penultimate warm-up act and his productions – which come closest to Drake’s own in terms of sound – provided the crowd with a glimpse of an act who is the label’s biggest star behind Drake. He’s a bit more explicit than his label mates with lyrics such as: “I see, you are, bout to, climax so, oh girl, don’t be, shy” from Wus Good/Curious and more tales of late night booty calls and dangerous liaisons. His biggest hit Recognize featuring Drake was an ideal lead in for Drizzy with its mix of trap production and lyrics about polyamorous love trysts seeing a mass sing-along. As Partynextdoor left the stage Drake ran on immediately afterwards and launched into Energy. Bounding around the stage with arms outstretched he said he was only asked to play one song but might do a few more. That turned into six tracks, with a guest appearance from Metro Boomin for his production Jumpman and a rendition of Meek Mill diss Back to Back. The crowd went through cycles of singing back the lyrics for the verses and jumping around for the choruses with his tale of self-reflection while driving around Toronto – Know Yourself – getting the biggest reaction. Drake used the event to announce his latest tour and for those who could get in it was a teaser of an artist who has built a mini empire around lyrics concerning self-reflection and lots an lots of hooks.Having taken the temperature of hip-hop, it’s time to see whether SXSW’s traditional meat and drink – grimy garage rock – is still thriving. Over at Street Legal, a guitar shop named after a Bob Dylan album which has been stripped bare, and boasts no stage, though it compensates with a tin bath full of free beers at one end, a succession of bands has been playing all weekend to a roiling audience of slam-dancing true believers. We get there in time to catch Ezra Furman, who, as usual, is performing in a dress, makeup and a string of fake pearls. Dropping philosophical bon mots including “Joy is not peaceful, it’s the triumph of frustration with pain,” Furman embarks on an extraordinary set which ranges from Diamond Dogs-era Bowie to Jonathan Richmond, taking in a stop at the Rocky Horror Picture Show on the way. Furman manages to transform the grimy corner of an empty store into a place of magic, his songs of passion (both religious and sexual) and pain reaffirming his credentials as one of the most compelling live musicians working today.After Furman’s intensity, the Blind Shake deliver gonzo fun. A trio from Minneapolis headed by the twin brothers Jim and Mike Blaha, their surf rock has an unpredictably choppy psych undertow that inspires hardcore fans to go absolutely bananas – so much that the band disappears from view (that lack of stage, again). This state of affairs is continued by Thee Oh Sees, the insanely prolific San Francisco psych band led by John Dwyer. At this stage in the evening, when it’s after midnight and the tin bath of beers has been refilled for the umpteenth time, the crowd want it loud and fast – and Thee Oh Sees satisfy them triumphantly, pulsing with weirdness, energy and electricity, and affirming there’s still life and joy to be found in rough and dirty rock’n’roll. 