The thing nobody ever tells you about divorce, a friend said recently, is that however far you walk away, the other person is never quite out of your life. It’s obviously true if, as in her case, there are children involved and joint parenting to be done. But even from people in child-free or relatively brief marriages, people who have barely spoken to their exes in years, you hear the same sense of something – not love, not hate, not quite obligation but something harder to name – that doesn’t quite dissolve with the decree absolute.Farewell, Brangelina – and the dream that love can last | Mary Valle You think you’re cutting free, sighed my friend, but really what you’re doing is exchanging a difficult relationship for one that’s in some ways even harder. Even in a miserably failing marriage, at least it’s obvious what you’re supposed to do. But who knows how to be a good first wife, or indeed husband? What loyalties are owed, what niceties should be observed, beyond awkward shows of unity at school parents’ evenings? And how long before you can speak fondly, or ill, of a formerly significant other without being suspected of still carrying either a torch or a grudge?Eleven years clearly isn’t long enough, judging by the case of Jennifer Aniston. Hers was the face that launched a thousand social media memes when news broke this week that her ex-husband Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie were divorcing. (For those of you wailing that Brangelina isn’t news, by the way; it may not interest you, but unfortunately that’s not quite the definition of news.)It doesn’t matter how often Aniston swears that they both moved on aeons ago, that she and Pitt now “wish only wonderful things for each other”, that she’s not at all having the last laugh at his expense. She’s a first wife, so there are basically two roles available to her in any public story: vengeful harpy dying to get her own back, or tragic abandoned creature sobbing into her pillow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Angelina Jolie has filed for divorce from Brad Pitt. Photograph: Karwai Tang/Getty ImagesEven 37 years isn’t enough for Jane Chapman, who divorced Jeremy Corbyn way back in 1979. Both have long since remarried, more than once in his case, with little evidence of lasting acrimony – after all, she supported his leadership bid last year. But her decision to back Owen Smith in this year’s contest remains headline news, enough to get her dismissed in some quarters as a “woman scorned”, even though as a former Labour councillor she’s presumably quite capable of forming her own views on the party’s direction.There’s something undeniably fascinating about the lingering ghost of the first wife, and no wonder, when one in three marriages in England and Wales is now not the first time for at least one of the partners. How many ex-spouses must that leave, trying to work out where they fit into the picture? So it seems timely that the 1996 film The First Wives Club – starring Bette Midler, Diane Keaton and Goldie Hawn as dumped wives joining forces against the husbands who traded them in for younger models – is now being remade into a TV series.It’s easy to forget how groundbreaking it was for its time. Hawn has said the idea of a comedy with three 50-year-old female leads, let alone one about women ganging up on perfidious men, so unnerved studios that the actors had to take pay cuts just to get it made. But women came in their droves to see it, because here was a model of first wifedom that was neither doormat nor harpy. The trio start off angrily seeking revenge, only to realise that they’re better off channelling their humiliation into something more positive; it’s the men who end up embarrassed that they ever swapped such smart, resilient funny older women for gormless arm candy. The fact that the older-man-seeks-younger-wife story doesn’t always play out that way in reality only made the fairytale version more compelling. It remains to be seen whether the remake – featuring actresses a good decade younger – strikes the same chords.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn and Bette Midler in The First Wives Club (1996): ‘groundbreaking for its time’. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarA lucky few families do now blend old and new with panache – cheerfully inviting the first spouse to the second wedding, or holidaying all together. Chatting some time ago to an academic researching informal childcare, I was surprised to hear her describe a couple where the husband’s first wife looked after the second wife’s children while the latter worked. But as my informant said, it was a shrewd move for the first wife, even if it wasn’t easy; she had children from that first marriage too, and what better way of ensuring they didn’t get neglected? No father would dare sideline his first family when the welfare of his second relied on them.Divorce: ‘No one tells you about the dent on your wedding finger that doesn’t go’ Many rub along in rather more awkward fashion. Weddings still bring agonies over where to seat the happy couple’s unhappily divorced parents – far enough apart to avoid arguments, but close enough to bride and groom not to feel left out – while funeral etiquette is if anything even more difficult. Should the first widow who shared half his life, or the one with him right at the end, take precedence in the ritual hierarchy of mourning? How to acknowledge both in the eulogy, without offence?Another friend, long since moved on from a brief early marriage, was thrown into confusion when her ex was diagnosed with cancer; it clearly wasn’t her place to play nurse, especially since both partners had remarried, yet it didn’t feel right just to stand by and do nothing.There will be dilemmas ahead for baby boomers, who have divorced far more often than previous generations, as they grow older and more frail. But however much some wish for it, there’s no turning back the clock to an age when such questions didn’t arise. Just as we now accept that parenthood can’t end with divorce, it may be wisest to accept that some faint echoes of the marital bond will endure; that if you want to be on friendly terms with an ex, then friendship has its own rules and responsibilities. Marriage is no longer always for life. But for better or for worse, and even until death do us part, the person you married just might be.