 5.01pm BST My verdictYesterday's study emphasised the importance of a series of fairly uncontroversial measures that are either already employed or being developed. Cattle movement controls and testing and slaughtering infected cattle are current practices that are being constantly improved. An EU approved vaccination is a longer term prospect. While it does not offer complete salvation, it is a vital technology that needs to be developed for the control of the disease in future. If bTB is primarily spread by cattle as the study suggests, then these approaches should be a policy priority.But the influences on the government's approach go beyond science and economics. Politics and social attitudes are just as important. These feed into the measure that will continue to provoke controversy - the badger cull. Millions of words have been written on the pro and cons of this policy and I refer you to earlier eco audits by Leo Hickman and myself in which we both concluded that the Defra evidence for the cull was too thin to justify a policy that is inherently brutal.Speaking of brutal, I have not included the mass culling of cattle in the list of potential policies because no-one is actually suggesting it goes ahead. But the influencing factor on this is probably not cost, as George Eustice suggested yesterday. Rather it is the political controversy such a move would provoke. It would be a brave politician who would take this to the public and agriculture lobby, even if it proved to be the most effective way to deal with the disease.Updated at 5.03pm BST 4.47pm BST Reader comment from Tom Rigby: Matt Keeling’s paper highlights the inadequacy of cattle controls 1996-2011 but when Owen Paterson became Minister in 2012 DEFRA policy changed markedly from just trying to contain the disease to its eradication. Since then there has been stricter control on cattle movements and an increase in frequency and severity of testing. It is too early to measure their effect but taken together with a targeted approach to the disease in wildlife it offers a credible eradication plan without the need for mass slaughter of healthy cattle. Of course if there was an effective vaccine it would be deployed but BCG was first tested in cattle over a hundred years ago, it didn’t work then so little confidence it would work now. 4.20pm BST Would a mass cull "finish off the industry"?Defra minister George Eustice said yesterday that a mass cull would "finish off the cattle and dairy industry in this country". The proposed cull of 250,000 cattle is a third of the 2001 foot and mouth disease cull in which 750,000 cows were killed. In 2001, farmers were given £1.34 billion (worth roughly £2bn today) in compensation to support them through the crisis. So government might be looking at a compensation bill of £700 million for a bTB cull. Add to this a percentage that takes into account that many communities struggled to recover from foot and mouth and pushing the disease close to eradication might cost £1bn. Considering the taxpayer is already spending £100m every year, the costs to the state could be recouped in around a decade. The animal welfare objection to culling cattle is bizarre, seeing as we slaughter the animals for meat anyway.This does not mean a cull is the best policy, there are many other factors involved beside money. But Eustice's rhetoric, made on the basis of economics, is unfounded.Updated at 4.22pm BST 3.17pm BST The National Union of Farmers says yesterday's study is slightly misleading with regard to the effect of badgers as its statistics don't allow for regional variations. The study said that overall badgers had a limited effect on the spread of bTB.NFU deputy president Minette Batters said: “We believe wildlife control in areas where TB is endemic... must be an essential part of any eradication strategy if we are ever going to get rid of this terrible disease. In high risk areas badgers are probably the major source of infection; in low risk areas badgers have no role at all because they do not have the disease. On average this might mean badgers play a minor role in disease spread, but that misses the point of why we need to control the reservoir of disease in wildlife in endemic areas to stop reinfection occurring."Batters goes on to say that vaccination is also seen as a key development and call for more progress on delivering this important, yet imperfect, technology. 3.06pm BST Twitter reactionLesley (@EnglishFolkfan)@KarlMathiesen Does the new bTB scientific analysis deal with scenario when an infected cow enters a mega dairy? http://t.co/vUwkzfngz8July 3, 2014Jonathan Leake (@Jonathan__Leake)Farming brothers fined £13,000 for cattle TB fraud & breaking laws to prevent spread of bTB http://t.co/cMwIhADQjt pic.twitter.com/KjpZIb3UpVJuly 1, 2014Sheila Evans (@ItsSheilaAE)New plan 'needed to stop cattle TB'... Devastating claims and heartbreaking for UK cattle keepers. #FlawedReport http://t.co/5mo0Gz0F2AJuly 3, 2014DefraChiefScientist (@DefraChiefScien)Help or hindrance? My comments on the Brooks-Pollock model http://t.co/q6aDcPVoIs #TBFree #BovineTBJuly 2, 2014 2.43pm BST Mark Downs, chief executive of the Society of Biology, said past outbreaks in cattle, such as foot and mouth disease and bluetongue, should inform the response to bTB and make the development of an appropriate and legal vaccine a priority. The vaccine BCG (Mycobacterium bovis Bacille Calmette-Guérin) has been shown to be somewhat effective in blocking the disease in individual animals, but it is unclear how it would behave in herds. Yesterday's study modelled the effect of vaccination and showed that it could be effective in stopping bTB spreading. The major issue with the vaccine is that some vaccinated cattle will show a false positive under the current testing regime. This has lead the EU to outlaw the vaccination."This means establishing a test which can differentiate between vaccinated and infected cattle – the DIVA test," says Downs."Badger vaccination will be useful for isolating infected areas and cattle vaccination will be important in safeguarding future herds. However, Government must establish a realistic sense of when appropriate cattle vaccinations and DIVA tests could be made available, in order to direct research efforts and funding, and establish a long term bTB eradication plan."Updated at 2.44pm BST 1.24pm BST Defra's chief scientist Ian Boyd has responded to the study in a blog. He says the assertion that a mass cattle cull would be an effective way to stop TB is a bit of a no brainer. On the face of it, this is not a very profound outcome especially when one considers where the uncertainties might lie within the model. The model itself is provided with most information about cattle-cattle transmission of bTB and, while few would doubt that this is the most important route of infection in cattle, it is not a surprise that if one was to intervene very hard to eliminate the disease by eliminating cattle then the problem (i.e. the control of TB in cattle) converges on a solution. Clearly, if the end point is zero cattle, which could be an outcome of such an approach, then the problem has been solved. It did not need a sophisticated model to tell us this.He says the imbalance in the detail of information about cattle and badgers, which means it is difficult to draw any inferences from the report on the behaviour of the disease in the badger population. A key issue is whether badgers are able to sustain disease without the presence of cattle. This paper suggests not but I am not so sure we have evidence strong enough to support such an inference from a study that made so little effort to model the badger component of the disease cycle.The study raised questions about whether the badger cull is to be seen as an effective policy, given its relatively limited capacity to slow the spread in the study's modelling. Boyd responded by questioning the methodology of the study. Does this mean that badger-cattle infection is unimportant or is it just left relatively unseen in all the noise of uncertain data, model simplification and (possible) selection bias by those carrying out the study? There are other data that suggest another story, such as the genetics of bTB that show an important epidemiological link between badgers and cattle.He suggests that bTB is not, fundamentally, a problem of disease management.  "Rather, it is a problem associated with the way in which the costs of different management interventions are divided between different stakeholders. We need to understand how these interventions might be implemented in ways that are accepted and this is a social science problem."And finally, Boyd cautions against using this paper to inform policy. The interventions suggested here would affect the lives, careers and livelihoods of many thousands of people and acting on them would require a much higher level of certainty than are present in the paper.Updated at 1.29pm BST 12.50pm BST Your comments   Malvern53 03 July 2014 12:14pmVaccination may only work on badgers (and cows) without TB, but if vaccination coverage is good enough (and the vaccine effective enough) then transmission of the condition falls to very low levels, few new carriers are created and as the old carriers die the illness dies with them. It's called herd immunity.   antipodean1 03 July 2014 11:06amQuite simply firmly clamp down on cattle movements and vaccinate both badgers & cattle as it becomes available. A reduction of agricultural intensity would undoubtedly help to reduce stress and overcrowding, but its harder to enforce. This is not a complex issue. 12.45pm BST   Photograph: NatureTB spreads between cattle in various ways. The largest factor is the movement of infected animals between herds and farms. Testing sometime delivers a "false negative", missing animals that are in fact, carrying the bacterium. Environmental effects, including badger, cause only 15% of new infections. View full size imageUpdated at 12.48pm BST 12.35pm BST Study author Matt Keeling has published a blog on the Conversation that builds on the media reports yesterday and the press release accompanying the study.Keeling's study found that vaccinating cattle could stop the spread of TB. A significant and novel finding. But a vaccine remains unlicensed in the EU because vaccinated cattle cannot be differentiated from infected cattle under current testing regimes.Rather than advise for the extreme policy of a mass cull, Keeling says increased and improved testing would naturally lead to a higher slaughter rate, but would eventually prove an effective dampener on the disease. 12.30pm BST Matthew Kelly has written a lovely account for the Guardian on the long and troubled relationship between British cattle farmers and 'brocks' (badgers). We've been here before. 12.16pm BST Scientific reactionThe Science Media Centre have done a round up of reaction to the study. Most agreed the study was a useful, although simplified tool, for understanding the cause of TB spread.Rosie Woodroffe from the Zoological Society of London (ZSL), said: “The model suggests that [badgers and contaminated farmland] is responsible for just 15% of herd infections. While this finding needs to be interpreted with caution, it does echo the findings of a model by Donnelly & Nouvellet which suggested that 6% (and a maximum of 25%) of new herd incidents in cattle were caused by direct transmission from badgers to cattle."Robbie McDonald of the University of Exeter’s Environment and Sustainability Institute, writing in Nature's News and Views section, said the model could be a useful tool for assessing the current crop of policies relating to TB. “Although their work is compelling, the authors’ job is not complete. Policymakers often speak of their use of a “package of measures” and “every tool in the box” in controlling bTB, particularly with respect to controversial policies to cull badgers. Brooks-Pollock et al. now have the perfect opportunity to use their model to test policymakers’ expectations of their various packages and tool-boxes and to gauge their overall cost-effectiveness. UK governments and the farming industry badly need such guidance to frame and implement their overall strategy and to manage expectations among their diverse stakeholders."Defra chief scientific advisor Ian Boyd said the control of cattle movement currently employed by farmers was supported by the findings. “Based on our current understanding of the disease cycle, the more severe control measures suggested by the paper would probably result in a rapid decline in the cattle industry in areas where TB occurs. However, the study reinforces the basis of the current TB control strategy which is designed to cope with complex and diverse routes of infection.”Lord John Krebs, professor of Zoology, University of Oxford, said the badger cull must now be rejected. “The sophisticated model and conclusions described in this paper give further support to the view that culling badgers is not an effective strategy for controlling bovine TB. Instead the emphasis should be on stopping cattle-to-cattle transmission. It is to be hoped that Defra takes on board this latest piece of scientific evidence when they formulate their policy for the future.” 12.00pm BST While the prospect of a mass cattle cull grabbed the headlines, there were a number of key points in this study that could genuinely inform the government's approach to this problem.Testing with 70-90% success means herd management must continue to be intensified Using such a test necessitates the use of multiple follow-up tests following a positive test on a herd to increase the chance of detecting all infected cattle. Movement restrictions are placed on herds until they pass one or two follow-up tests at approximately 60-day intervals, and once movement restrictions are lifted two further tests are required after 6 and 12 months. In 2010–2012 there was a marked expansion and consolidation of testing protocols in England, culminating in 2013 with the division of the country into annual testing counties in the south and west and four yearly testing counties in the east and north.A small number of farms are likely responsible for the majority of infections 84% of newly infected farms and, crucially, that there was a heavy bias towards as few as 10% of farms, characterized by selling many animals, as the source of nearly all secondary cases. Similarly, a small minority of farms seemed to be responsible for spread through the environment. Thus, a key finding of the study is that a small proportion of farms probably function as superspreaders of bTB infection.A massive badger cull will make only marginal impact An across-the-board 50% reduction of all sources of environmental transmission, simulating successful culling or vaccination of badgers, was shown by the model to have little impact on any measures of cattle disease, and failed to prevent ongoing growth of the epidemic. 11.47am BST The challengeBovine TB is contracted by breathing in the M. bovis bacteria. Apart from respiratory transmission, it is also thought to be caught from bodily fluids (saliva, urine, droppings, pus from abscesses, etc.). This means animal density is a major factor in the spread of the disease. Badgers can also carry the disease.Because of the potential for the disease to transfer to humans, TB is a major economic problem for farmers who were forced to slaughter 26,000 infected animals in 2013. Incidences in the southwest UK have been rising for 25 years.Karl Mathiesen (@KarlMathiesen)The spread of bovine TB in the UK. Source: @nature http://t.co/ivYewzv8ce pic.twitter.com/pcC8CqqpKOJuly 3, 2014 11.09am BST The authors of the report have distanced themselves from advocating a mass cattle cull. In yesterday's press conference, professor Matt Keeling told reporters: "We're being very categorical. We don't propose whole herd culling. We've looked at it as this utter extreme that says if you went wall out to control it, what could you possibly do? That's the most you'd ever get in terms of control and it still doesn't go down to nothing quickly."Keeling and co-author Ellen Brooks-Pollock then released a statement: "The model reveals the complex nature of bovine TB epidemiology and hence the difficulties faced when trying to control infection. We would like to stress that we have never viewed this work as advocating any one policy, and we do not criticise current control measures. Whole herd culling was investigated as one extreme but was never put forward as a viable policy option. Throughout we have stressed that any decision requires input from multiple sectors with scientific prediction only forming one element.” 10.42am BST The Guardian's Damian Carrington wrote last night: The work is the first national-scale model of how the disease spreads and also found that more rigorous cattle testing and cattle vaccination would significantly curb the disease. But it concluded that the impact of the government’s favoured option of a widespread badger cull would fail to prevent the epidemic growing.The one-off cull of all cattle in infected herds which is considered in the new paper would see over 250,000 animals slaughtered, about 20 times the current annual rate, though far fewer than the 6.2 million animals killed in the 2001 foot and mouth epidemic. Prof Matt Keeling, an epidemiologist at the University of Warwick and one of the research team, acknowledged the measure would be “draconian” and “unpopular” but said that, because the cattle cull would cut TB infections, far fewer cattle would be slaughtered in following years. “This might be an acceptable cost if one is prepared to take a sufficiently long term view,” the team write in the paper. 10.40am BST Welcome to the eco auditThe mass slaughter of the UK cattle herd would be the most effective control measure for bovine TB, according to a research published yesterday.The study in the journal Nature, says the UK's current policy of culling badgers (which carry the disease) will only marginally affect the spread of infection. Instead, the authors suggested slaughtering 250,000 cattle would be the best way to combat tuberculosis, which costs the UK taxpayer more than £100m every year.The findings were immediately rejected by George Eustice, the minister who has overseen the badger cull. He said a mass cull of cattle would "finish off the cattle and dairy industry in this country" and insisted the badger cull still had a place alongside blanket testing, slaughter of infected cattle, biosecurity measures, vaccination and cattle movement controls.The report comes a week after Eustice's Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) announced it was rolling out a badger vaccination programme, which opponents of a cull called the "beginning of the end" for the divisive programme.The mass slaughter of any disease carrier tends to be a good way to stop the spread, but it seems implausible that any government will force farmers to relive the nightmare of the foot and mouth cull. Are there other, more practical or realistic options for containing bovine tuberculosis?Join in today’s discussion by contributing in the comments below, tweet me or email me. If you are quoting figures or studies, please provide a link to the original source. Follow me on @karlmathiesen for updates throughout the day and later I will return with my own verdict.