The main character in Anomalisa, a brilliant new movie out this week, is a heavily depressed customer service guru spending the night in Cincinnati. He rings down for room service at his hotel, requests a salad starter and salmon main course, and then listens as the person on the line reads the order back to him in excruciating detail (“Good, sir. So that’s a bibb lettuce, gorgonzola, prosciutto and walnut salad with honey raspberry vinaigrette dressing and a wild-caught Copper river Alaska salmon with the baby asparagus and black truffle broth”).Behind every cold call is a person hating their life | Kate Solomon Our sympathies are with the hero, as he endures. Those of the writer, Charlie Kaufman, are more complicated. In the 1980s, he was employed fielding calls about missing newspapers in Minneapolis. This meant he was on the receiving end of our widespread assumption that when it comes to service industry employees – especially those we can’t see – normal rules of engagement do not apply. These people are not human, but messengers dispatched for our shooting pleasure. Sponges, hungry for all the anger we can spit at them. Of course they can take it! After all, who wouldn’t want to work in a call centre, with that huge salary and secure contract and all those amazing perks?Kaufman’s plan, after Anomalisa, had been to make a movie from the point of view of the guy reciting the order down the phone, or similar. Yet he can’t, because although Anomalisa is one of the best reviewed movies of last year, almost no one in America went to see it. Nearly 6,000 ponied up to fund the film on Kickstarter, but that package included a DVD. So even those most heavily invested may have failed to visit the cinema. Some things really are worth your cash – and I say this as a former telesales agent. So when Anomalisa is out in the UK this week, let’s be better customers. And the next time some poor sod cold calls you, just try to be better.Invent email, run for the hills It’s hard to find out anything about Ray Tomlinson’s miniature sheep – the sweetest detail in the obituaries of the man who created email. Having made quite a mark in the world of computer science, Tomlinson retired to Massachusetts where he bred dinky breeds using the frozen sperm of Ouessant rams . This is an outfit you’d expect to have one snazzy website. But no: turns out Tomlinson pretty much quit the internet.His legacy for the rest of us is rather different, for we live now in an epistolary universe; our working lives largely conducted through correspondence. And though you don’t see people chugging down copies of Clarissa when they can’t get wifi, awareness of the form has been heightened. Letters of Note, the blog that republishes snippy missives, is now both a stage show and a paperback translated into 16 languages.Going underground Cycling alongside a river on Sunday, I heard Elvis and saw a big quiff emerge from the earth. Not a second coming, but a man digging a well while listening to the greatest hits. He’d got about nine feet deep, hadn’t hit water yet, still looked ecstatic. In the new film Couple in a Hole, a grieving couple seek sanctuary by burrowing below ground in France; in Geoffrey Household’s Rogue Male, a spy on the run does the same. It’s the primal nature of such hunkering that makes super-basements seem so upsetting. They involve JCBs and cranes, not hands and spades, hollowing out the ground for luxuries, not basics. In Being a Beast, Charles Foster’s account of living like a badger, he comes to love his sett. “It was OK to lie in the dark,” he writes, “surrounded by the scratching and humming and thrashing of animals that would one day eat me”. We will all return to the earth. We might as well get accustomed.