Jennifer Lopez’s new single has been criticised by fans who believe that its feminist message is compromised by the track’s producer. According to reports, the producer is Dr Luke, who is currently involved in legal proceedings over the alleged sexual assault of pop star Kesha.The track, entitled I Ain’t Your Mama, was written by Meghan Trainor and is an anthem for independent women tired of their lazy, undomesticated partners. “I ain’t gon’ be cooking all day, I ain’t your mama,” she sings. “I ain’t gon’ do your laundry ... Wake up and rise and shine / Best get to work on time / No more playing video games / Things are about to change.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Since its premiere on Thursday, Lopez – who is signed to Epic Records, a division of Sony, which co-owns Dr Luke’s label, Kemosabe Records – has received messages on social media from fans who are angered about her decision to collaborate with the producer. Messy Danii (@theheauxinpink)I was really looking forward to new music by @JLo but learning that it was produced by Dr. Luke makes me not want to support it...sry...April 7, 2016Michael Da Rocha (@michael_darocha)So Jennifer Lopez worked with Dr Luke on her new song Ain't Your Mama. Really JLo? disappointed...#kesha #freekeshanow #JenniferLopez #jloApril 7, 2016CHARLI XCX (@bodyofmyown)All of us after finding out that Dr Luke produced JLo's newest single https://t.co/MuLp6iWCLgApril 8, 2016Lopez has yet to comment on the matter. The release of the track follows a recent ruling in Kesha’s ongoing case against Dr Luke, real name Lukasz Sebastian Gottwald. On 6 April, a judge in New York ruled against her motion to end her recording contract under Sony, rejecting the pop star’s attempts to disentangle her business from her former producer.Ahead of the ruling by Judge Shirley Kornreich, attorneys for Kesha argued that it was “slavery” to make the pop star continue to work with companies controlled by Dr Luke. Kesha is suing the producer in two states for sexual assault, battery, harassment and emotional distress.