Ian McShane is one of the best actors working today. If you saw Doctor Thorne on Sunday, you will have noticed that his presence single-handedly elevated the entire production by several thousand notches.It felt as if McShane had decided to star in a completely different show to everyone else. Without him, Doctor Thorne was a humdrum, soggy piece of Sunday night fluff. But as soon as he turned up as Sir Roger Scatcherd, rolling his eyes and swinging his jaw around, the show crackled to life. It might have taken McShane chomping off great mouthfuls of scenery then gobbing them back into poor Tom Hollander’s face at every opportunity, but he almost managed to make Doctor Thorne entertaining.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   As the lovable Lovejoy in 1986. Photograph: REX/ShutterstockThis isn’t exactly news. Stick McShane in anything and you’re standing behind a jet engine. He turned Deadwood’s Al Swearengen into a cast-iron 21st-century icon. He gave Kings a gravity it didn’t really deserve. He’s going to be great in American Gods. The only surprising thing about his recent Game of Thrones casting was that it took so long to hire him. Even in Hot Rod, a silly film about a funny skateboarder, McShane maintained an impressively cool set of beans.And yet, when I saw him in Doctor Thorne, just as when I saw him in Deadwood and Hot Rod and Sexy Beast and Pirates of the Caribbean 4, there was a part of me – just a tiny part, but still loud enough to be heard – that screamed: “Ooh, there’s Lovejoy!”Because, as good an actor as McShane is, he’ll never play a character as weird and interesting as that again. Lovejoy hasn’t been on the air since 1994, and it’s hard to explain what a bizarre phenomenon it was at the time.Lovejoy was a show about a cheeky antiques dealer who dressed like Robot Wars-era Jeremy Clarkson and had a haircut like a varnished tumour. He looked as if he’d been pebbledashed in the face daily from an early age and, were you to believe his promotional stills, he spent the vast majority of his life staring quizzically at vases. He was part detective, part criminal and part moral avenger, even though his only real identifiable skill was being able to tell how much a watch was worth just by looking at it. Like I said, it was weird. But it was massive.The show came from an era when a television antihero could just be a bit of a scamp and not the physical manifestation of all human frailty. It was a broad, rural, defiantly populist comedy drama that hit its mark perfectly. The show wanted a charming rogue and it created one so effortlessly that, if you walked up to any 60-year-old woman in the UK today and hummed the theme tune, they’d still be likely to buckle double with lust.Ian McShane: rogue trader Looked at objectively, almost everything McShane has done since 1994 has been better than Lovejoy. It has been more nuanced, had much more dramatic tension. Since crawling out from underneath Lovejoy’s shadow, McShane has been able to play more overt villains. And that’s where his real strength lies – not shouting the word “Tinker” over and over again while winking at a never-ending succession of Laura Ashley mannequins.And yet – maybe because it was his breakout role, or because it was such a ferocious success – McShane is doomed to never fully escape from Lovejoy. So when it was announced last year that Tony Jordan was working on a new series, it was only natural to assume that McShane wouldn’t return to the role. But given that an entire generation still automatically equates the character and the actor, maybe it’s time for him to go back for one last victory lap. He’s still got the bone structure to pull off a mullet, at least.