I only met Kerry Packer the once. We were in Australia for the 1990-1 Ashes. For the first test, at the Gabba, our tour captain, Graham Gooch, was absent, injured, and my great mate, Allan Lamb, led the side. It was a game not destined to last long. By the close of day two we were batting for the second time, having earned a first innings lead of 42. We were 3-56, I was one of those three, and Lamby was 10 not out overnight.Then we had an invitation to join Kerry for dinner, a great idea but for the fact that he was staying at Jupiters (where they do all sorts of things well but not apostrophes) on the Gold Coast so we needed to get there and back after play. Kerry, a keen gambler, was keen to use the facilities at Jupiters and so we were all obliged to head for the tables Dinner was excellent and Kerry bought us some high-quality wines, despite being a teetotaller himself. I was able, as a man not due to be handling a bat the next morning, to enjoy the grape juice, unlike Lamby who was, despite a renowned thirst, well aware of his responsibilities both as a batsman and captain of our ship.The problem came after dinner. Kerry, as an inveterate gambler, was keen to use the facilities at Jupiters and so we were all obliged to head for the tables, Kerry to play, the rest of us to support. We had been told he liked his guests to stay at these times. He started brightly on the blackjack table, but then began to lose form. He changed cards, croupiers, indeed anything and everything to try and change his luck, but to no avail.Packer, having been all sweetness and light, now took on a darker mien. He was used to casinos around the world both knowing him and allowing him pretty much unlimited credit. Jupiters, not being on his regular circuit, needed managerial approval for every chit for further credit and KP’s scowls each time he signed for another A$25,000 [£10,000] became more feral.Meanwhile, Lamby was knocking back the coffee (the first and only time I have seen him so restrained late of an evening) and eventually we had to have a quiet word to see if we could reasonably be excused to drive the hour back to Brisbane.In truth we had both had later nights than that in the middle of Test matches (yes guilty, and apologies), and we might have got away with it had not the night porter at the hotel let it be known to the local press that he had been obliged to let us in some time after 1am.The next morning AJ Lamb added only 4 more to his score. England were bowled out for 114 and the pitch immediately flattened out (I can’t think of any other explanation!) so Australia had no difficulty in knocking off the 157 needed to win without even losing a wicket. On those grounds alone one would have thought that Mr Packer would have invited us out every game. Unless, of course, we were deemed bad luck on the important stuff – the cards!Tickets for Gower, Cowdrey and The Holy Bail are on ticketmaster.co.uk. For more details, go to ebplive.co.uk