Snapshot: The look of love at a CND rally in 1985This photo was taken at a CND rally in Hyde Park, October 1985. I am the child grinning in adoration at my grandmother as she dishes out wholesome treats to family and friends gathered to demonstrate against cruise missiles. My expression sums up how many people feel about my grandmother, even at this age it was clear that she was someone who had the capacity to inspire. Virginia Brookes is a woman of many talents and passions – an academic, musician and a political activist – but I first knew her as a grandmother. She was the kind of grandmother who would spend hours on her hands and knees in the grass, devising intricate and often bizarre stories to entertain us all. She still has an unrivalled talent for entering the minds of young children, even if she now struggles to sit on the floor. Her five great-grandchildren also adore her.Her other achievements have been delivered in dribs and drabs over the years. Well known for her (sometimes frustrating) modesty, she would occasionally drop a fact into conversation, or a cheery letter through the post, about life in custody after being arrested for protesting against Trident at Faslane, about Brian Eno learning to play piano in her basement or having, at one time, been persuaded to run for local government. Just how many PhDs does she have? Nobody really knows.When she was 84, my grandmother and I went into the local bike shop in Oxford to get our tyres pumped up. The young man in the shop asked where we were heading to and my grandmother, rather nonchalantly, responded “Oh, we’re cycling to Bath!”We still laugh about this bike ride – oh, how it rained! I had to buy new shoes half way, as the pair I was wearing filled up with water. My grandmother, ever prepared, was waterproofed from head to toe.Now, having recently celebrated her 90th birthday, she has faced some serious health-related obstacles, but when all appeared bleak, she picked herself up and battled on. Never one to let anything get in the way of a chance to study, she enrolled on a music composition course 70 miles away from where she lives. Could she be the oldest person currently studying at Oxford University? Even if she knew, she probably wouldn’t tell us!Grace RowleyPlaylist: Musical that puts a smile on our facesOne Day More – Les Misérables“Tomorrow we’ll discover what our God in Heaven has in store / One more dawn, one more day, one day more!”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mum’s love of musicals is genetic, no doubt. It runs in the family, and she is blatantly proud of the fact that my brother – Nathan – and I enjoy watching old MGM musicals such as Singin’ in the Rain and going to the local theatre to watch Jesus Christ Superstar. But it’s Les Misérables and, more specifically, the song One Day More that holds a special place in my heart.After I’d had a screaming match with my brother, and we’d stormed upstairs to our room and attempted to slam our doors louder than the other, and after Mum had joined in by yelling at us not to slam our doors, there would be silence in the house for about 20 minutes. I’d be lying face down on my bed, counting to 10 internally over and over again, when I’d suddenly hear faint streams from One Day More drifting into my room. It always brought a smile to my face, no matter how much I wanted to stay in a bad mood.That song would lure us from our rooms and we’d traipse downstairs as if in a trance, until I had taken the role of Javert, my brother became Jean Valjean and Mum piped in with the counter melody of Cosette. Nathan is the only decent singer in our family but that doesn’t stop Mum and me from singing the final lines as loud as we can, until Nathan’s pleading for us to stop and we’re all laughing off the last remnants of the argument.No matter how bad the fighting gets, how hurtful the words we spit at each other sometimes are, it’s One Day More that brings us back together; whether we’re listening to that song specifically or sticking on the 25th anniversary DVD.Recently, Nathan, our aunt and I treated Mum to a trip to London for her 50th birthday where we watched Les Misérables, and it was absolutely phenomenal.It strengthened our love for the musical even further, and now that I’m at university, I only have to play that song and I am transported back to the Queen’s theatre, bouncing in my seat and humming along to the rousing show tunes. Or, more importantly, I can imagine prancing around my living room back home with Mum and Nathan, singing One Day More voraciously, producing huge grins on our faces and interminable joy in our hearts.Charlotte LockWe love to eat: Joe’s cheggy bread in our pyjamasIngredientsEggsButterBread (ciabatta is good)Grated cheddar cheeseSalt and pepper      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joe Tan tucks into cheggy bread1. Slice the bread (with help from Daddy).2. Butter each side of the bread.3. Whisk eggs in a bowl.4. Add salt and pepper.5. Dunk the bread in the egg mix. Make sure you cover both sides.6. Melt butter in frying pan.7. Put the bread in the pan until brown on one side.8. Sprinkle the grated cheese on the top and squish it down on to the bread.9. Leave for a few minutes and then flip over the bread.A couple of weeks ago, I went downstairs and asked Daddy what was for breakfast. He said eggy bread. I said, “No, I don’t like eggy bread.”So I thought we could invent something else. We always want different things for breakfast because I like cheese and my sister likes eggy bread. Mummy and Daddy like everything.I said we could use cheese with eggy bread to make “cheggy bread”. Daddy thought this was a brilliant idea. This is now our favourite breakfast because everybody likes it.You should eat this in your pyjamas with a knife and fork.Joe Tan, aged sixWe’d love to hear your storiesWe will pay £25 for every Letter to, Playlist, Snapshot or We love to eat we publish. Write to Family Life, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email family@theguardian.com. Please include your address and phone number