1 CeltsEdinburgh’s summer has been packed with new art but there may not be anything else quite as poignant, strange and memorable as this exhibition of ancient wonders. The Celtic world is revealed here as a place of mysterious gods and even more mysterious art. Flowing intricate patterns, the green of bronze and the misty mountain hops of the prehistoric past create a woozy, dreamlike mood, opening windows on ancient Scotland and Europe that you won’t forget.National Museum Of Scotland, Edinburgh, to 25 Sep2 Stubbs And The Wild      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   George Stubbs’s Two Leopards.Nature stares back at you searchingly from the paintings and drawings of George Stubbs. This great 18th-century artist set out to understand the natural world from the inside out – by dissecting a horse. His original drawings of the animal feature in this fine show, along with his sublime painting Horse Frightened By A Lion and portraits of a monkey, a moose and a variety of big cats. Meticulous, accurate, and yet the spirit of his art is utterly romantic.Holburne Museum, Bath, to 2 Oct3 Switch House      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tate Modern’s Switch House.The relaunch of the Tate Modern is the art event of the summer. The museum’s new wing – the Switch House – expresses the dynamic energy of modern art history, from a dark expressionist basement to its Futuristic pyramidal heights. It also contains a fair amount of art, with Rachel Whiteread’s green resin cast of a wooden floor playing off Carl Andre’s bricks and Eva Hesse turning minimalist seriality into a hymn to breastfeeding. There’s loads to argue over and a very nice bar to have that argument in.Tate Modern, SE1 4 The Hive      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Hive at Kew Gardens. Photograph: Jeff Eden/RBG KewThis walk-in sculpture doesn’t so much imitate a beehive as show how the architecture of nature can inspire human design. Its repeating honeycomb-like construction creates a lofty hi-tech environment in which to contemplate the world of bees. The creation of artist Wolfgang Buttress, it boasts an LED light show triggered by real-life insect activity. Bee there or bee square.Kew Gardens, to Nov 20175 Georgiana Houghton      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Georgiana Houghton’s The Eye of God. Photograph: Victorian Spiritualists' Union/Courtesy of the artist and Courtald GalleryLast chance to enter the wild and wonderful world of the Victorian woman who made art that she attributed to the dead. Houghton was a spiritualist medium who claimed her swirling drawings were the work of Titian and other artists guiding her passive hand. If so, their ghosts could see the future of modern art, for Houghton was an abstract artist decades before abstraction is usually said to have started. What a discovery.Courtauld Institute, WC2, to 11 Sep