Donald Trump got off lightlyIt was anticipated to be the most politically vocal Oscars ceremony in a generation – but aside from a handful of neat jokes and pointed references, Donald Trump came away relatively unscathed by Hollywood’s elite. The most vociferous statement came from the Iranian director Asghar Farhadi, who won the best foreign language film award for The Salesman. He boycotted the ceremony over Trump’s travel ban, saying in a statement read out by the first Muslim woman in space, Anousheh Ansari: “My absence is out of respect for the people of my country, and those of the other six nations who have been disrespected by the inhumane law that bans entry of immigrants to the US … Dividing the world into the ‘us’ and ‘enemies’ categories creates fear.”Actor Gael García Bernal said: “As a Mexican, as a migrant worker and as a human being, I am against any form of wall that wants to separate us,” referring to Trump’s proposed border wall with Mexico. Suicide Squad’s Alessandro Bertolazzi meanwhile, who is Italian, dedicated his best makeup and hair styling award to “all the immigrants”. Ava DuVernay, who was nominated for her documentary 13th, tweeted the following during the ceremony:Ava DuVernay (@ava)A small sign of solidarity. I chose to wear a gown by a designer from a majority Muslim country. Thanks to @AshiStudio of Lebanon. #Oscars pic.twitter.com/CbEkK7rCpGFebruary 27, 2017Barry Jenkins, the director and co-writer of Moonlight, championed the American Civil Liberties Union in his speech, a cause also championed by the likes of Ruth Negga and Karlie Kloss, who wore ribbons emblazoned with the ACLU. Jenkins also referenced Trump’s four-year presidential term. “All you people out there who feel like there’s no mirror for you, that your life is not reflected, the Academy has your back, the ACLU has your back, we have your back, and for the next four years we will not leave you alone, we will not forget you,” he said – also backing the Academy, which had been criticised in previous years for not championing enough stories by people of colour. Just before melting down the ceremony, Warren Beatty also acknowledged the increase in the number of black nominees, celebrating “the increasing diversity in our community”.Donald Trump skewered in Jimmy Kimmel's Oscars opening monologue It instead fell to Jimmy Kimmel to call out Trump by name. He said the ceremony was being watched in “more than 225 countries that now hate us”, then added: “I want to say thank you to President Trump. Remember last year when it seemed like the Oscars were racist? That’s gone, thanks to him,” referencing the#OscarsSoWhite controversies of the last two ceremonies.Kimmel encouraged winners to make speeches that Trump “will tweet about in all-caps during his 5am bowel movement tomorrow”. Alluding to Meryl Streep’s dislike of the new commander-in-chief, he said: “Nice dress by the way – is that an Ivanka?”And referencing this week’s blocking of various news outlets, including the Guardian, Kimmel said: “If there’s anyone from CNN, the New York Times … anything with Times in it, even the Medieval Times, we’d like you to leave the building … Fake tans we love, but not fake news.” Trump’s creationist cabinet member Dr Ben Carson had one zinger fired at him, when Kimmel said that Marvel movie Dr Strange was nominated not only for visual effects, “but was also named secretary for Housing and Urban Development”.Jimmy booked the hosting gig for 2018 …Could the laconically larky Jimmy Kimmel bring the right amount of razzle-dazzle to his hosting debut? The danger was that he would be too workaday and too ironic, lumbering the evening’s swooning glamour with too much snark – but he actually ended up keeping a potentially disastrous Oscars afloat.He smartly outsourced a song and dance opener to Justin Timberlake, teeing up a great opening monologue that, as well as the aforementioned Trump material, featured a gross but very funny gag about Moonlight (that it was, thanks to its handjob scene, the only film with a happy ending).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Affable host Jimmy Kimmel keeps the show on the road Photograph: Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty ImagesKimmel’s ongoing supposed beef with Matt Damon was chummy but amusing, with Kimmel taking the piss out of We Bought a Zoo and the “Chinese ponytail movie” The Great Wall, and conducting the orchestra to play over Damon’s nomination announcement. Kimmel’s reliable Mean Tweets segment, correspondence with a presumably asleep Trump, and dropping little parachutes full of sweets and cookies were fluffy filler segments, but his line for the latter – “It’s like a horror movie: gluten literally falling from the sky” – was cute.Where he really came into his own, though, was when a group of tourbus tourists were pranked into coming into the Oscars ceremony. This had the potential to be ghastly: ordinary people being paraded in front of and laughed at by rich, beautiful, successful stars with a very overinflated sense of their own importance. But Kimmel, by affably coaxing out the tourists’ personalities, gave the segment humanity and humour.Even better was his wrangling of the disastrous gaffe over the awarding of best picture. “We have Steve Harvey to blame for this,” he wryly deadpanned, referring to the bungling Miss Universe announcer. Rather than luvvieishly reacting as if a head of state had been assassinated, as most other Hollywood types would have, he reminded everyone that it is ultimately just a rather frivolous backslapping exercise – and it’s not really that big a deal if the wrong backs were briefly slapped. He closed the show by taking the blame – “I knew I would screw this show up, I really did. I promise I’ll never come back” – but it would be no surprise if the Academy do call him up for 2018.… But creating viral moments isn’t as easy as Ellen makes it lookConjuring a viral moment is in the job description for the host of any big awards ceremony, but Kimmel couldn’t quite manage it regardless of how hard he tried.He shamelessly took a leaf from Ellen DeGenere’s book when he tried to set the stage for some viral selfies: he commandeered a tourist bus and brought the tourists into the Dolby Theater to snap pictures of themselves with film stars– but the picture of Gary from Chicago, Mahershala Ali and an Oscar statue only got 4,800 likes on Kimmel’s Twitter feed.Jimmy Kimmel Live (@JimmyKimmelLive)Gary, Oscar & Mahershala! #Oscars pic.twitter.com/BghTbtzqbaFebruary 27, 2017After a well-received opening monologue in which he took aim at Donald Trump and his old fake foe Matt Damon, Kimmel rolled out half a dozen scripted moments meant for ephemeral notoriety – but they all fell flat.First he used the classic Jimmy Fallon trick of teaming up with Justin Timberlake – The Tonight Show’s go-to man for a viral duet. After Timberlake’s opening song and dance number, he hung around to have Kimmel mock him for being in the boyband *Nsync. It was funny, but nowhere near the viral catnip that Fallon and Timberlake pulled off with the history of rap.Kimmel then showered the audience with sweets, which wasn’t dissimilar to Chris Rock’s Girl Scout cookies stunt the year before. Then there was the bit with child actor Sunny Pawar, whom Kimmel held up in a cringe-inducing Lion King pose that was liked 1,300 times on his Twitter page.Jimmy Kimmel Live (@JimmyKimmelLive)Jimmy & Sunny Pawar from #LionMovie recreate The Lion King. #Oscars pic.twitter.com/FM6tN114I0February 27, 2017In Mean Tweets – a segment borrowed from Kimmel’s late-night talk show – Emma Stone, Samuel L Jackson, Ryan Gosling and Casey Affleck gamely read out insulting 140 character missives about themselves. That was liked a paltry 2,800 times.And unfortunately for Kimmel, the biggest viral moment of the night was a picture of his tourist stunt featuring Gosling and an unsuspecting tour member who looks terrified, which became a meme almost instantly. It was reminiscent of the Leonardo DiCaprio and Lady Gaga Vine that went viral at the 2016 Golden Globes, and just goes to show – going viral just isn’t that easy.La La Land failed to storm the barricades   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  La La Land mistakenly named best pictureWhen the nominations were announced, all the talk was of La La Land’s record-equalling haul, and just how close it might get to the Ben-Hur/Titanic/Return of the King wipeouts. But even before the last-second fiasco, which reduced its trophy-tally to six, from seven, it was clear from much earlier in the evening that it was not going to storm the night. In fact, the Oscars felt a bit like the Baftas, as the awards were spread evenly around the field: the first 12 Oscars went to different films and Hacksaw Ridge was the first film to find itself in receipt of a second award.Where La La Land didn’t match the aforementioned Oscar colossi was in its failure to hoover up the technical and craft awards: it won the production design and cinematography Oscars, but not costume, or sound, or editing. (The two music awards were pretty much a foregone conclusion.) Any major winner has to develop a groundswell where the Oscar voters are swept along in the wake. In the end, its small scale may have told against it: there were only two significant acting roles, the action was confined to LA (no weird sound design, basically), and no VFX to speak of. In the end, La La Land was a little meh – in Oscar terms, at least.… But, luckily, other landmarks were broken   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Mahershala Ali becomes the first Muslim actor to win an OscarThis year’s Oscars were shaping up to be a domino spectacular in which endless records toppled right through the night, thanks to one movie in particular. The stage had been set by La La Land’s grand haul at the Golden Globes, where it won more than any other film in history. (Seven!) But taking the same number at the Oscars, is little to write home about – to stand a chance of troubling Guinness World Records, you need at least 11. But other, rather more exciting, records were indeed shattered during the notably long ceremony (three-and-a-half hours; longer than average but not a patch on the four hours 20 minutes in 2002). 1) Mahershala Ali became the first Muslim acting winner, for Moonlight.2) Wins for Ali and Viola Davis for Fences meant this was the first Oscars in a decade with more than one black acting winner.3) At 32, Damien Chazelle became the youngest best director winner (though he could have done this two years ago, when Whiplash was in the running).4) The Harry Potter franchise picked up its first Oscar win as Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them took costume design.Anatomy of an Oscars fiasco: how La La Land was mistakenly announced as best picture 5) Sound mixer Kevin O’Connell finally won an Oscar (for Hacksaw Ridge) on his 21st attempt – ending the longest losing streak in history.6) Viola Davis became the first black actor to win an Oscar, an Emmy and a Tony. (Whoopi Goldberg also has all three, but the Emmy wasn’t for acting.)7) You may not have heard about this one, but Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway became the first ever presenters at the Oscars to comprehensively steal the show by reading out the wrong best picture winner. 