Spoiler alert: this recap assumes you’ve seen episode three of The Night Manager. Don’t read on if you haven’t.He’s spent two episodes on simmer, but at last Richard Roper has come to the boil, and now it feels like the main action of The Night Manager is underway. Up to this point, our view of Roper has almost always been the public one: the charmer with a glint of steel. The worst man in the world has mostly seemed like an average member of the Bullingdon club – the price the world pays for doing business. But, of course, we were only being made to wait. Now Roper is in focus, ensconced at his Mallorca holiday fortress, interrogating and cajoling, manipulating and manoeuvring, and giving enough of a sense of his stony heart to leave you afraid. The character gives scope for a big, obvious performance: Roper as written could just be a carnivorous sneer. To Hugh Laurie’s great credit, the version we get is quieter than that. The really interesting thing about this Roper is that his charm is actually quite low-key, and his stress a plausible version of what any wealthy middle-aged man with a demanding job, a younger girlfriend and a son to stay might exhibit. (His phone conversation with Jed at the end seemed like an enhanced lover’s tiff, not a mobster’s veiled threat.) This feels right: Roper has got this far by committing to the role of a fairly boring dealer of agricultural machinery. Did you find yourself rather liking Roper – settling into the easy company of a good host, feeling the relief that comes with submitting to someone who knows how to grease the social wheels? I did. I felt much more uneasy as a result.Still, there was plenty of villainy to be getting on with. In his initial interrogation of Pine and, later, his offer-you-can’t-refuse of a place in Corcoran’s stead as chief executive of one of his shell companies, Roper exhibited the sinister assurance of a man to whom evil has become an inevitable response to a fallen world. There was a speech explaining all of this – a decent character note for making sense of everything else. “Me, I’m a free man,” Roper told Pine. “Free to think, free to work, free to climb a mountain or lie in bed all day eating peppermint creams without any bugger telling me how.” Becoming a man, he said, “is realising that it’s all rotten. Realising how to celebrate that rottenness – now that’s freedom.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sinister assurance … Laurie as Roper. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryWhat’s absent from this account, and so far from the show, is any sight of the consequences of that freedom for others. We don’t see the bullets hit or the bombs drop: the closest we get is in those luxurious opening titles. Whether this industrialised violence eventually materialises on screen or not, we’re presented with an interesting question about whether the lacuna in our vision is also a lacuna in Roper’s thinking. Does he face the violence he wreaks – or does he simply push it out of his head?Angela’s CrashesAs Roper gets more interesting, at least one of his antagonists is beginning to look a little flimsy. I keep waiting for Olivia Colman to come into the centre, for Angela Burr’s character to become more than a facilitator for Pine. It still hasn’t happened. Maybe it’s inevitable that Burr should feel peripheral when all the action is so claustrophobically contained within Camp Roper, but it’s frustrating all the same: poor old Colman, such a subtle and engaging actress, is left underemployed, embodying pure, non-posh goodness. It’s insulting to the viewer too – she’s the one (Danny aside) we’re supposed to like most, and she’s also the most boring of the lot. Colman does her best, but so far it’s a rotten waste – like giving Rembrandt a set of felt tips. On the other hand, as yet The Night Manager has arranged its stars delicately, bringing each into focus as the pace of the story allows. And there’s plenty of time left. Since by and large everything’s been so well handled so far, I’m willing to give Burr the benefit of the doubt. I wish she’d just snog David Harewood’s Joel, though.Mastermind or moron?Having waxed lyrical about the subtleties of Laurie’s performance, I’ve got to say that I find myself less and less impressed by Roper’s skills as a criminal mastermind. Look, I know you have to suspend your disbelief a bit. But if we don’t believe in the intelligence of Roper and his cohorts, they’re a lot less frightening. And this week, the hint of incompetence that came through in episode two developed into full-blown idiocy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Poor Corky, shunted to the sidelines ... Tom Hollander as Major Corcoran with Pine. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryLet me just vent for a second. First of all, the interrogation. Roper asked Pine all the right questions; questions which, when strung together, seemed like they might lead any appropriately suspicious outlaw to the conclusion that the new man in their number – a hospitality worker who he’d met once before and went on to murder someone in Devon before pitching up by coincidence in the very restaurant where his beloved child got kidnapped – might not be exactly as he claimed. Yet Roper and Corcoran seem happy to let Pine into their midst without much fuss, so long as they get to come out with something non-specifically ominous every once in a while. “I run a tight ship,” said Roper. “If you step out of line I will make you howl for your mother.” And yes, OK Dickie, woooh, scary, but if you think about it, an actual spy is likely to have priced this possibility in.Now consider how Pine obtained and transmitted Roper’s most dearly held secrets. First, when deciding where to house their highly suspicious guest for the duration of his visit, Roper and Corcoran settle on a cottage quite a long walk from the main property, which is nice for Pine, because who doesn’t appreciate a bit of privacy when they’re getting in touch with their spymaster? Then, despite issuing dire warnings that mobile phones were forbidden, Pine’s captors blink not an eyelid when Danny’s handset is found to have disappeared without trace. Adorable little twerp – I’m sure this lapse hasn’t got anything to do with the shifty stranger in our midst, that one over there trying to download Angry Birds! Pine just carries the phone around the villa in his back pocket. And having thus taken candy from a baby, how does he get into Roper’s inner sanctum, his so-called Citadel? He swipes a key from his sock drawer and waits until the alarm goes off, which it does every day at the same time, perhaps to make highly predictable stealth operations that bit more convenient for everyone. In the entire Roper household, there appears not to be a single security camera. Honestly, what are Frisky and Tabby doing all day? Perfecting their paella skills? Torturing local cats? When 11am rolls around, couldn’t one of them at least ask Pine if he’d like to join them for a cup of tea?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Taking candy from a baby … Pine doing his spymaster’s bidding. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Ink FactoryThe wrong side of JedI feel better now, thanks for bearing with me. Unfortunately I’ve run out of space to talk about Elizabeth Debicki’s Jed, who is getting more interesting and openly angry as she wakes up to the compromise she probably already knew she made, and who, it’s a relief to see, may prove a complication for Pine for reasons other than being really fit. Pine himself, too, has slipped through the net. That’s a compliment to The Night Manager, which, without really announcing it, gives us a different aspect of its unnervingly multifaceted hero every week: first the charmer, then the thug, now the man in the background. Tom Hiddleston shifts through these gears with such unobtrusive ease that we are left none the wiser as to which is the real Pine; if, indeed, there is a real Pine at all.Notes and observationsDanny’s presence is still really unnerving. Noah Jupe is so alone as the show’s location of sweetness and hope – to Jed and Roper and Pine alike, the one person who keeps them feeling a bit human – that you can’t help but fear something horrible’s going to happen to him. Worse even than the hapless Frisky could dole out for losing that bloody phone.“My husband is screwing our nanny,” says Caroline Langbourne, wife to the inconstant and horrible Sandy, as Pine soothingly rubs sun cream into her back. “What a cliche.” And yes, it is a cliche. When it first became apparent last week it made me roll my eyes. But I’ve changed my mind. The Night Manager’s use of the stereotypes of the moneyed middle classes is exactly what’s responsible for the sense of dread that won’t go away. What makes us worry for the likes of Danny and Caroline is the feeling that they’re in the wrong story, that they don’t know what lies ahead. When the world of the arms dealer and the world of the posh Mediterranean holiday are spliced, they both come to seem more real.Poor Corky, shunted to the sidelines without any real idea of why it’s happening. He still gets all the best lines, though, as when he’s directing Pine to his quarters and concludes: “Alternatively fill your pockets with stones, walk into the sea, and keep going.”I liked Roper’s mug, which bore the slogan “Calmness is overrated” in a font that recalled the modern world’s most irritating meme. That’s Roper all over: the garments of mundane Britishness contemptuously used to hide a message of violence. Or maybe I’m overthinking the mug.Pine has nothing to do. He doesn’t even seem to have a book. I wonder how he fills his days? This isn’t a merely silly question: one of the nice undercurrents of this show is the sense that he might be getting a little bit of Stockholm syndrome, and it’d be nice to see this emphasised by the occasional game of poolside Scrabble en famille.Episode two recapEpisode one recap