With its huge eyes, comical name and diminutive size, Mark R Smith’s image of a baby Hawaiian bobtail squid can’t help but raise a smile. A curiously endearing creature, the cephalopod is just 1.5cm across, its mantle cavity bearing more than a passing resemblance to a rather natty shower cap. But it is also a beautiful example of symbiosis – nature’s version of “I’ll scratch your back if you scratch mine”– for on the underside of the squid is a light organ which houses bioluminescent bacteria. The squid offers the bacteria protection and food, while the bacteria emit a glow – a handy trait that the squid uses to offset its silhouette, helping it to evade predators in the depths below.One of the winners in this year’s Wellcome Image Awards, the bobtail squid strikes a cheery note. But others scooping a gong evoke quite different emotions.Open-beaked against a jet-black background, the image of a bird leaps forth, a frenzy of red-and-white squirming lines hinting at its form. It looks like a still from a Hitchcockian nightmare. “It looks so cross, sort of squawking at you,” says Catherine Draycott, head of Wellcome Images.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daria Kirpach’s illustration of the Nobel prize winner Rita Levi Montalcini. Photograph: David Linstead. Wellcome ImagesIn fact, the eerie shot is the product of data captured during a CT scan; the hectic lines are the blood vessels inside a humble pigeon. “It is fascinating because of the way it shows the incredible density of blood vessels around the collar area, around the base of the neck,” says Draycott, pointing out the secret of the pigeon’s ability to regulate its internal temperature.The picture was captured by Scott Echols, a veterinarian and president of Scarlet Imaging, as part of an ongoing endeavour known as the Grey Parrot Anatomy Project, which aims to develop ways to aid diagnosis and treatment for a host of animals, from birds to humans.But the image isn’t just an arresting testament to the ingenuity of mother nature – it is also a tribute to scientific innovation. As Echols explains, using CT scans and contrast agents (substances to improve the visibility of things inside a body) to map blood vessels is a tricky business. “I had a student and we were working with what was considered at the time the best agent to look at the cardiovascular system,” he says. “And at some point the material exploded – it exploded all over me and, more concerning, all over my student – and left a mark on the wall like a crime scene where you have a body and a chalk outline.” Even more worrying, the contrast agent was toxic. “It was a mixture of lead, cadmium, mercury – horrible stuff,” says Echols.In a bid to find a non-toxic alternative, Echols began concocting various experimental mixtures. The result was a contrast agent known as BriteVu. “That pigeon represents one of the earlier images after we figured out how to get the formula right,” says Echols. “It circulates through all the blood vessels to the capillary level, so you can see every single capillary in the body.” Echols says that the image is limited only by the capability of the CT scanner. “That particular pigeon was scanned at 100 microns, so you are seeing a fraction of the vessels that are there,” he says. “If we were to scan it in greater detail you’d see even finer vessels.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suchita Nadkarni’s ‘placental rainbow’. Photograph: Suchita Nadkarni. Wellcome ImagesThe upshot is a technique that offers the chance to explore cardiovascular systems in three dimensions. But the success hasn’t been limited to birds. “We ended up testing the product on different animals and since then we have discovered anatomy no one knew existed,” says Echols, adding that all animals used in the project are already diagnosed as having terminal conditions.But while the image, and the technique behind it, is shedding new light on anatomy, Echols, a former wildlife artist, hopes it will also captivate those outside the lab. “One of the beauties of art is that it brings out something inside of you maybe you didn’t even know was there, a curiosity, a past memory – whatever it may be,” he says. “I hope it brings out that inner curiosity that I believe is in all of us.”It’s a sentiment that seems to distil the ethos of the Wellcome Image awards. Now in its 20th year, the prize has grown in breadth as well as in profile. “There is more communication between artists and scientists than there ever has been before,” says Draycott.Indeed, this year’s shortlist embraces spectacular images from the lab, infographics of Twitter connections and even portraits of the scientists themselves, including a dramatic scarlet illustration of Rita Levi-Montalcini, the late neurobiologist, by artist Daria Kirpach.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cat-skin showing hairs and a whisker. Photograph: Wellcome Images/David Linstead.A medical graduate from a Jewish family in Italy, during the second world war Levi-Montalcini was banned from taking up academic work, so instead she set up a small, secret laboratory in her bedroom in Turin, using sewing needles as surgical instruments, to study the growth of nerve fibres in chick embryos. After fleeing with her family to the countryside to avoid the bombs, she continued her research, cycling to farms to collect the necessary chicken eggs while, later in the war, she was appointed doctor at a refugee camp in Florence. After the conflict, Levi-Montalcini returned to her work on embryos, sharing a Nobel prize in 1986 for the discovery of nerve growth factor.The colourful work is, perhaps, a nod to Levi-Montalcini’s vivid life. “Artists’ interpretations of science are about communication, they are about communicating something to an audience, and it is up to you how you interpret that work,” says Draycott of the awards.That audience is growing. Not only are this year’s images set to go on show in the huge windows of the Wellcome HQ in London, but they will also be displayed around the UK and beyond. “It is not London-centric – the exhibitions are opening at science centres up and down the country, from Aberdeen to the Eden Project [in Cornwall],” says Draycott, adding that the images will also be on show as far afield as South Africa and Moscow.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scott Echols’s image of the tiny blood vessels in the head of a pigeon, created by a CT scanner and a special ‘contrast agent’ to highlight the microvasculatory system. Photograph: Wellcome Images/Credit: Scott Echols. Wellcome ImagesAs the awards have burgeoned over the years, so too has the technology behind the images, a point neatly illustrated by The Placental Rainbow, a colourful array of mouse placentas created by Suchita Nadkarni of the William Harvey Research Institute at Queen Mary University of London. “The resolution of that image and the way that the colours pick up the nuclei and the blood supply – if you look at it really really closely – is just incredible,” says Draycott. “[This type of image] used to be very luminescent and colourful but the definition was always an issue, whereas now you are getting incredible definition.”The picture, says Nadkarni, sheds light on how the structure of the placenta, such as the development of blood vessels, can be affected by changes to the immune system – each placenta in the image is from a mouse with a genetically different immune system. “This is all relating to a condition called pre-eclampsia, which is the leading cause of maternal and child death worldwide,” she says, pointing out that the condition is linked to problems in the development of placental blood vessels that are thought, in part, to be down to the mother’s immune system not functioning properly. By tinkering with the immune systems of mice, Nadkarni adds, it might be possible to find a telltale marker for such problems, offering a possible approach for prediction or early diagnosis of pre-eclampsia in humans.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A visualisation of tweets containing the hashtag #breastcancer over an eight-week period. The ‘double yolk’ structure at the top indicates common mentions between two accounts. Eric Clarke, Richard Arnett, Jane Burns, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland Photograph: Wellcome ImagesBut the striking multicolour image is not only a beautiful illustration of her work, says Nadkarni – it is also a stark reminder of the complexity of life. “People think of pregnancy being just a mother and child thing and they don’t think about the individual cells that are involved during pregnancy that help make it successful or in this case don’t make it successful,” she says. “I want people to understand that there is a lot going on during pregnancy and the immune system plays a really important part.”For Draycott, that ability of images to lay bare the essence of research lies at the heart of the awards. “The scientist is discovering and drilling down and finding out more and more, and they are immersed in it and they know everything about it,” she says. “But the end result is something that you can put on the street and explain to somebody who doesn’t know anything about it and make it make sense.”The overall winner of the Wellcome Image awards will be announced on 15 March. Exhibitions open from 16 March 2017 in the UK, Europe and Africa. A full list of venues can be found at wellcomeimageawards.org