Joey Alexander might be the most accomplished 13-year-old in the world.Joey Alexander: Countdown review – 13-year-old prodigy has an old jazz soul He is a jazz pianist who has appeared on 60 Minutes, has played for President Obama at the White House, was one of the youngest Grammy nominees in history, and has just released his second studio album, Countdown, which features three original compositions.But despite those achievements, he still enjoys the same sort of things that young boys do everywhere.“I like the Transformers,” he tells me when we meet in New York City. “I like the leader Optimus Prime. I like the leader. Maybe because I’m a leader myself I don’t know.”He’s talking about leading a jazz band, although in October, Time magazine added an extra interpretation when it named him as one of its Next Generation Leaders. True to form, he was the youngest on the list.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We’ve arranged to meet in a steak restaurant in New York City, where Alexander has been living with his parents for the past two years. The three of them moved here from their home country of Indonesia two years ago, and have settled in SoHo, a trendy Manhattan neighbourhood. Alexander looks the part. He’s wearing a navy blue peacoat, skinny jeans and black sneakers, and has a Beatles-style haircut looming above thick framed glasses. He looks like he could be in a very young boyband. He declines coffee or tea, although his agent promises him a post-interview tiramisu, and starts to tell me about his songwriting process. It’s quite lo-fi.“I just explore chords and melodies and then suddenly these ideas come out to me,” Alexander says. “And my dad will record it so I can remember it.”After his dad records his explorations Alexander listens back and refines his work, spending about a month on each song. Soul Dreamer, the last track on Countdown, was the first song he wrote, when he was 10 years old.Alexander had taught himself to play the piano – using a mini electric keyboard – four years earlier. His dad, Denny, was an amateur musician, and soon started taking his young son to jam sessions in Bali. The family realised Alexander’s talent, and by the time he was eight they had uprooted to Jakarta so he could accelerate his learning closer to Indonesia’s jazz scene.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It worked. At nine he won the inaugural “Master-Jam” jazz festival, and when he was 10 one of his YouTube videos was spotted by Wynton Marsalis, the nine-time Grammy winner and artistic director of Jazz at Lincoln Center, who invited him to play in New York. “It’s God’s calling,” Alexander says. “That’s how I really started my career as a musician, I think. It was amazing. I still can’t put it into words.”He and his family are Christian, and Alexander repeatedly refers to his talent as a “gift”. At times he seems to be in awe of his own ability. He has no interest in fame – when I tell him he has 100,000 fans on Facebook it seems like the first time he’s heard that – but seems most excited about growing interest in jazz as a genre. Playing music and being on the road is like a school for meJoey Alexander “Some people say: ‘I really love your music, I haven’t really listened to jazz yet, now I’m starting.’“I’m really just thankful that people want to listen to jazz. Because you know this music can be hip, I believe. Because it’s for all ages. Anyone can listen to it, and I hope people will play more and listen more to this music.”In the immediate future, Alexander is focused on touring. He’s got six gigs in November, including in London and Paris, and his website lists shows booked all the way up to June 2017. He’s home-schooled and is still working on improving his English, and in the longer term, he doesn’t know if he wants to go to university. “Playing music and being on the road is like a school for me,” he says.How Newark became one of the greatest jazz cities in the world With any child star there is a risk of them being overexposed, of having too much too young, of some sort of dramatic fall from grace, and with constantly being on the road I did wonder about how much time Alexander spends with other children.He says he loves touring, though, and seems to have plenty of hobbies. Aside from Transformers, he likes swimming, tennis and watching the news, particularly CNN, and especially world news. He’s currently on a Rocky kick – he plays the video game on his iPad, and “loves” the film.For Alexander though, everything comes back to his love of jazz. Just as he explained his enthusiasm for Transformers, he uses music to explain his fondness for Rocky.“I love the spirit of it, you know. It’s this underdog who people didn’t care, but he kept going. “I like those stories, it reminds me of Thelonious Monk who people thought of as an underground musician but he became influential. I like those stories.”If Alexander can succeed in getting more people to listen to jazz music, in making it “hip”, then he might become one of those stories himself.