Theatre1 JunkyardIt may be more of a play with songs than a fully fledged musical, but you would have to have a heart of stone not to warm to Jack Thorne and Stephen Warbeck’s 70s-set tale of a Bristol adventure playground. It follows a group of teenage misfits who discover that they have something to defend. Lovely, not least for the way it points up the importance of play.Rose Theatre, Kingston upon Thames, to 30 April2 Paul Auster’s City of GlassThis certainly isn’t without its flaws, not least in the way that it reduces the actors to puppets in service of the design and video effects. Despite that, 59 Productions and director Leo Warner undoubtedly capture the strange, dislocating quality of Paul Auster’s novella – the first part of his New York trilogy – about a bereaved crime writer drawn into a real-life mystery. It may not be emotionally involving, but it’s a stunning technical achievement with dazzling visual flair.Lyric Hammersmith, W6, to 20 May3 Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?Clearly not Imelda Staunton and Conleth Hill, who are lighting up the West End in Edward Albee’s emotional rollercoaster of a play, which sees marital strife turn to tragic endgame. White noise and white light heighten James Macdonald’s production, where Martha and George’s late-night soiree with academic Nick (Luke Treadaway) and his wife Honey (Imogen Poots) unfolds like a slow-motion car crash. The Harold Pinter Theatre, SW1, to 17 May      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mara Galeazzi as Mary Vetsera and Edward Watson as Crown Prince Rudolf in Mayerling. Photograph: Royal Opera House/Bill Cooper/ArenaPAL4 PygmalionGeorge Bernard Shaw’s play about a linguistics expert who tries to pass a flower girl off as a duchess gets a makeover of its own in Sam Pritchard’s production; the expert is now an east London hipster and Eliza Doolittle a northerner. It won’t be to everyone’s taste, but the reinvention playfully divests the play of its Edwardian trappings. It also reminds us that, even today, many are judged not by what they say but how they sound.The Oxford Playhouse, 22 April; Nuffield Theatre, Southampton, 25 April to 13 May5 The Who’s TommyThis isn’t the greatest musical ever written. In fact, it doesn’t make much sense. But there is a swagger to the Who’s story of the “deaf, dumb and blind kid” who becomes a wizard on the pinball machines that shines through in this revival created by a team of disabled and non-disabled artists for Ramps on the Moon. The piece becomes a fascinating comment on attitudes to disability, incorporating sign language, captions and audio description.Nottingham Playhouse, to 29 AprilDance1 MayerlingRoyal Ballet performs MacMillan’s portrait of the Austro-Hungarian empire. It may be flawed as a narrative, but it features some of the most searingly imagined scenes of love and psychosis in the classical repertory.Royal Opera House, WC2, 28 April to 13 May2 BrewbandThe always inventive Marc Brew collaborates with rock artists Graeme Smillie, Jill O’Sullivan and Peter Kelly for a promenade show that’s part-gig, part-dance.The Lilian Baylis Studio, EC1, 25 April; Gaiety Theatre, Ayr, 28 April; touring to 4 May3 LeviathanJames Wilton Dance tackles Moby-Dick with an appropriately high-octane mix of martial arts, capoeira and contemporary dance. Lakeside Arts, Nottingham, 25 April; touring to 23 July