Doctor Strange review – Benedict Cumberbatch relishes an eyepoppingly freaky extravaganza Marvel’s latest superhero flick, and the studio’s first trip into the mystical corners of its comic-book back catalogue, is a resounding hit with critics. Currently sitting pretty on a 98% “fresh” Rotten Tomatoes rating, it’s being seen as the best superhero origins story since 2014’s Guardians of the Galaxy. So did Benedict Cumberbatch cast a spell on you as the future Sorcerer Supreme, or were you struggling to conjure up much enthusiasm? Here are a few talking points to help with your verdict.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Doctor Strange: trailer for film starring Benedict Cumberbatch as Marvel’s Sorcerer SupremeThe magic of CumberbatchThis always seemed like the perfect role for the Englishman, with Cumberbatch’s elegant, otherworldly features fitting Earth’s magical defender like a hand in glove. As the arrogant neurosurgeon who seeks out the mystical arts in desperation after being humbled by a horrifying car accident that destroys his career, the Sherlock star is up there with Marvel mainstay Robert Downey Jr (Iron Man) for dramatic depth and charismatic screen presence. He is also surprisingly funny. His double act with poker-faced straight man Wong (played by the enduringly brilliant British actor Benedict Wong) releases the tension at all the right moments and reminds us that this is supposed to be a fun, popcorn superhero flick. If Tony Stark and Steve Rogers ever need a break from heading up The Avengers, Strange looks more than ready to step up. Benedict Cumberbatch webchat: your questions answered on kung fu, a wayward cloak and going shirtless The cerebellum-twisting visuals The original Doctor Strange comics were popular with acolytes of the 1960s counterculture, largely thanks to Steve Ditko’s wonderfully eccentric psychedelic art. For the movie, Marvel has taken inspiration from Escher and the Christopher Nolan film Inception: when the sorcerer slips from the real New York into another dimension, Manhattan’s cityscapes are twisted and folded in on themselves over and over again in an endless kaleidoscope of concrete and steel. Derivative they may be, but such outlandish techniques are like nothing seen before in comic-book movies, and you wonder if Scott Derrickson’s film might pick up an unlikely cult following from modern-day beatniks and head-shop devotees.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Magical casting … Benedict Cumberbatch as Doctor Strange. Photograph: MarvelThe whitewashing debateThrillingly enjoyable as Doctor Strange is, it would be impossible to ignore the whiff of cultural appropriation that hangs over certain scenes and characters. Why does our hero travel to Nepal yet meet two English sorcerers (Tilda Swinton’s Ancient One and Chiwetel Ejiofor’s Karl Mordo) and a Chinese chap (Wong)? Are there no Nepalese wizards about? And why is he heading off to the mountainous nation at all when Strange’s comic-book mentor was from Tibet? The answer, of course, is China, which now boasts the world’s second largest box office and is famously prickly about any mention of its troubled province. The Marvel writer C Robert Cargill admitted the studio changed the Ancient One’s origins from Tibetan to Celtic to avoid upsetting Chinese sensibilities. On the other hand, the studio has won praise for its depiction of the sorcerer as a non-binary character, even if the bald, androgynous Swinton is largely referred to as “she” by her peers in the movie. Doctor Strange, all in all, has a cast that is nothing if not culturally diverse.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Don’t mention Tibet … Tilda Swinton as the Ancient One and Chiwetel Ejiofor as Mordo. Photograph: MarvelIs this Marvel for fans of JK Rowling?Doctor Strange may be a very different kind of wizard to Harry Potter, or even Newt Scamander of the forthcoming Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them movie, but he is also a very different kind of superhero to those we have seen before in the Marvel cinematic universe. Derrickson’s film intelligently grounds itself through Strange’s relationship with Rachel McAdams’ fellow surgeon Christine Palmer. It also mercilessly sends itself up whenever talk of mystical mantras, energy fields and alternate dimensions gets too heavy: the rendering of Strange’s cloak as a garment with a life of its own is a particularly sharp gag. But this is still a pretty far-out addition to the comic-book movie genre, and it remains to be seen whether Marvel can seamlessly integrate Strange into stories featuring Earth’s other mightiest heroes further down the line.Benedict Cumberbatch on Doctor Strange: 'It's mind-blowing and very funny' The mid-credits and post-credit scenesThe future Sorcerer Supreme does at least get to meet Thor, in civilian clothing intriguingly, and show off his hospitality skills by magicking up an apparently bottomless flagon of beer. But what is the god of thunder doing in New York with his brother Loki, and is their father Odin really walking the streets of Manhattan? The mid-credits scene was directed by Thor: Ragnarok’s Taika Waititi, but it’s not clear how it ties into the 2017 film, which has been pitched as a Thor/Hulk/Loki road movie heavily influenced by the classic Planet Hulk graphic novel and therefore expected to take place on as-yet-unseen worlds.The end-credits scene, meanwhile, seems to set up Mordo as a future antagonist for Strange. He’s not necessarily a villain, though, any more than General Thaddeus Ross should be seen as one of the bad guys simply for trying to get Earth’s superheroes to wind their necks in a little in Captain America: Civil War.Where does Doctor Strange stand in the ranks of Marvel movies?The consensus from critics seems to be that Strange just misses out on the top ranks of the Marvel comic universe, but is certainly up there with the best of the rest. I’d place it behind The Avengers, Iron Man, Captain America: Civil War, Iron Man 3 and Guardians of the Galaxy, on a par with Thor, Avengers: Age of Ultron and Captain America: The Winter Soldier, and ahead of Ant-Man, Thor: The Dark World, Captain America: The First Avenger, Iron Man 2 and The Incredible Hulk. What’s your verdict?