Finding it hard to get a ticket for Adele? There’s one on sale for £24,000 A rather apocalyptic report in the Observer on Sunday noted how much one might pay to get tickets for Adele’s UK tour. It found that you could be charged up to £24,000 to see the superstar at the O2 in London, if you went through “secondary ticketing sites”.That was true. There were sellers asking those prices, but that doesn’t reflect the whole picture. Get Me In, the site that was – alas no longer; the listing has disappeared – offering four seats in row R of the top tier of the O2 for £22,000 each plus fees, also has tickets a couple of rows further forward for £180 each. It has tickets in block A3 – the seating block on the floor in front of the stage – for £2,750.That’s not meant to excuse those prices. They are horrific. The secondary ticket sites (where people resell tickets they have already bought, for events they can’t go to, often discovering they can’t go just seconds after buying the tickets, incredibly) have succeeded in turning touting into a leisure activity: lots of people now think nothing of buying an extra ticket or two and then offsetting the cost of their own attendance against the profit from tickets they resell. Worse still, secondary ticketing sites have become havens for organised touts, who’ve found ways around the flimsy security devices intended to deter them. What’s worse, plenty are engaging in what’s known as “speculative ticketing” – copying one of the less attractive practices of City trading by selling something they don’t have, in the hope that before the event comes, they’ll be able to buy the ticket they are advertising at a price less than they are selling for. If they can’t do that, of course, the secondary buyer never gets the ticket. It’s not really a surprise to learn that the Association of Chief Police Officers believes organised crime gangs are active in the secondary ticketing market, given the ease with which it’s possible to make a fortune. The government has also launched a review of the secondary ticketing market.Ticketmaster – which owns Get Me In and Seatwave – offered this defence: “Ticketing marketplaces react to demand and the willingness of fans to pay. With high-profile events, such as Adele, tickets are sometimes listed at prices higher than the face value. Tickets very rarely sell at these elevated prices though, with many selling at face value or below the original price.”What that means is that tickets for sold-out shows will go for more than face price, while tickets for shows that don’t sell out might go for less than face price. That doesn’t mean you’ll be able to get the best seats in the house for half price, mind you – if all the premium seats are gone, you’ll still have to pay through the nose. But if there are plenty of rubbish seats left at the box office, you might get them cheaply through a secondary seller.But the point about secondary ticket prices responding to demand is absolutely correct. The people who are charging a fortune for terrible tickets, having set the prices themselves, are either a) trolls b) misreading the markets or c) not expecting anyone to buy the tickets until the very last minute, when all other options have disappeared, and the only way someone with a great deal of money can get to see the show is if they are willing to be taken to the cleaners.It is routinely the case that when you see a ticket being sold for a truly eye-watering price, one that stretches credulity, then you will find a seat of similar quality for very much cheaper.It doesn’t make it right – I find the secondary ticketing business reprehensible, which is why I’ve always refused to do PR-driven interviews with the big players at any of the companies (they are offered frequently; these people are well aware of how bad they look when a story like the Adele tickets breaks) – but it’s important to remember that the headline price you might see offered isn’t the definitive price, it’s one price.How the big summer show prices compare on the big resale sitesBeyoncé      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beyoncé appears at half-time at the Superbowl. Photograph: Ezra Shaw/Getty ImagesThe cheapest seat we found for any of Beyoncé’s UK dates on Viagogo was £75.90, to sit in row 19 of block 519 at Wembley Stadium on 3 July – on the top tier, in the furthest corner from the stage. That’s to sit in a seat from which Beyoncé will be little more than a rumour. The most expensive was £12,101, for row 7 of block 520 on 2 July – another terrible seat, and the worst value we found. Leaving that one aside, it was a £10,000 drop to the next most expensive seats: £2,300 for block 206 was still awful value, given that while lower down, it’s still a long way from the stage, especially when £2,250 would buy you a “Beyhive” package with a standing place at the very front of the stage.Seatwave was much the same, with a cheapest ticket of £80 for block 516 of Wembley on 3 July, and a priciest one of £1,500 for Old Trafford cricket ground on 5 July, in its “The Point” section. Though that looks badly overpriced when you can still buy the top hospitality package for The Point for £375 for that show. Give it a couple of months. It’s the same story at the cheap end for Get Me In (£75.99 for block 526 at Wembley on 3 July), while its most expensive is an optimistic £5,500 to stand in the golden circle at Sunderland’s Stadium of Light on 28 June. You can get the same ticket, for the same show, on the same site, for £550.Stubhub has Wembley top tier seats for £75, with a Beyhive package topping the price list at £2,250 – how interesting that it’s the same price as on Viagogo. There’s also a general admission standing ticket for £2,500. That’s to stand miles away from the stage with no golden circle or Beyhive privileges.Coldplay      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Coldplay performing at the Brit awards, February 2016. Photograph: Samir Hussein/RedfernsThings are much the same at the bottom end for Coldplay – all four of the big resellers have their cheapest offers for seats in Wembley’s top tier, and all for the band’s show on 15 June (one of four Wembley gigs they are playing), with prices ranging from £70.91 (Viagogo) to £81.99 (Seatwave and Stubhub). At the other end of the scale, for three of the sites, the most expensive tickets are for the band’s gig at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester on 4 June. Viagogo is offering a “VIP pass” for block 204 – second tier, decent position relative to the stage – for £900. The same block with no pass is £1,023.75 on Seatwave, and £1,320 on Get Me In. The most most expensive Stubhub seat for Wembley is £1,300 for block 227 of the Club Wembley tier – a decent seat, but not £1,300 worth of decent seat.