We start with a shootout. The Mexican authorities aren’t glad to see the Abigail, but there are fewer repercussions than you’d expect to trespassing international borders. Except for Strand’s associate Luis, that is, who ends up dead. He gives Daniel a coin with an owl on its face, to give to his mother, and Daniel glibly flips it into the water, tempting the owl god to come back and haunt them all.It’s not clear where the crew lands their boat exactly, and turns out it doesn’t much matter because a pack of zombies with bleeding eyes comes out to welcome them. They’re the former parishioners who were going to storm the gates of a compound owned by Thomas Abigail, who would’ve gone to stop them except his housekeeper and surrogate mother, Celia, killed the lot of them with poison communion wafers.Fear the Walking Dead recap: season two, episode five – Captive  Too late for Thomas. Strand’s realization that his partner was bitten leads to a heartbreaking goodbye, with Strand offering to join Thomas in the afterlife. Thomas makes Madison promise to take care of Strand, leading to a surprisingly pithy bit of dialogue. “It’s not going to be easy,” she tells Thomas, who’s ready for it: “Why do you think I’m asking you?”And then it’s time to bask in the paradise of the compound, apparently: showers, hot meals, old movies like some lazy Sunday and not, you know, the end of the world. The gang does not seem concerned about conserving resources, burning candles late into the night and sucking up electricity from … a generator? Some geothermal source? Burning the undead?‘I saw what you did’Chris is clinging to his title of The Worst. Everyone knows Chris killed Reed in cold blood, and not because he was going to turn into a walker. Travis has a talk with him about the bungled murder of Reed, Madison gets critical, and Chris gets snotty.Example No 1: when the parishioners attack, one pins Maddie to the ground and Chris stands there, watching, hoping one will take a bite. Alicia sees the hesitation and steps in to brain the zombie herself, leading to example No 2. Chris threatens Alicia to try to keep her quiet, and he is at his sniveling worst: “Why are you mad at me?”Might be that time you killed a dude who was tied up in a chair and had a metal beam sticking out of his body. Yet the difference between self-defense and picking the wings off a beetle continues to escape Chris. The tension creates a rift between Madison and Travis, who naturally defends his son and wants him to pull it together. Madison, also naturally, just wants someone to address the problem. Her concerns are not alleviated when she wakes up in the middle of the night to find Alicia and Chris standing over their bed with a knife, like a throwback to Single White Female, when in fact he’s just the single worst teenager on television. On a show filled with mundane horrors, Chris manages to be a horrible person in a category of his own, the kind who creeps in the night to kill someone sleeping. Maybe his new identity as psycho killer will at least make him interesting.‘I’m just a bit sick of it’ Nick is having a hard time with all the death, particularly when he has to put an axe into the head of a pretty girl in a pink dress, possibly the creepiest creature Fear the Walking Dead has ever created. He notices how upset Celia is, and she sees a gift in him while Madison sees him as fragile – it’s an interesting dynamic. No matter how much Nick heals from his past as an addict, Madison still thinks of him as someone in need.Nick and Ofelia’s little date to visit a shrine to the undead turns into another excuse for actual dialogue, eg Nick’s line: “If a woman says ‘come with me’, and doesn’t tell you where she’s going, she’s taking you to Jesus. It’s always Jesus.”Of course, Nick sees the owl of Luis’ coin carved onto the tree, like on one of the magic trunks of Game of Thrones. Does this tree have magic too? Nick certainly has some kind of vision there, though it’s mostly memories: he could be re-evaluating, tapping into some psychic powers, auditioning for a role on Ghost Whisperer. Who knows, but it’s kind of cool.At the house, he has another conversation with Celia. “They’re not really dead, are they?” he asks. She says they’re not – they’re what comes next. Celia decidedly has some power, and some aura of magical realism floats around her – it fits the Latin influences of the show and, for once, differentiates Fear from the original recipe of The Walking Dead. ‘Why do you fear death?’Ah, Celia: a villainous, sweet abuela with a heart of stone. Daniel’s discovery of zombies in the basement at first seemed like an obnoxious repeat of the original series – remember Herschel’s barn in season two? – but Celia’s motives are so different that the show could get away with it yet. Celia’s owl-in-a-tree religion seems to suggest the dead have always walked among us, and only now have received bodies. She feels that the corpses of her loved ones should be preserved, though they’ve gone on to the next life. When Daniel confronts her, she asks why he is obsessed with the dead. It seems she’s talking not just of the walkers but the demons of his past in El Salvador, which haunt him in flashbacks as he copes with the end of the world.Nick’s already well under Celia’s sway, and Strand’s just glad to finally get her approval when he ushers Thomas into the next life. Then he finds the poison hosts and realizes she created the zombies that killed his partner. He shoots Thomas in the head, ensuring the body won’t return and that Celia can’t use his lover’s remains for her worship of the owl god.At long last, just a week before the “midseason finale” and when our crew has finally found their supposed paradise, Fear the Walking Dead has taken a far more interesting turn toward the weird.