I’m not the ideal Nigerian epicurean. When I first said I wanted to write about Nigerian food, I thought people would size me up and demand: “Well, what do you know about Nigerian food really?’ Because writing a good modern book of Nigerian recipes (as they assumed I’d be doing) would take someone empirical, focused and experienced, as well as willing and able to travel. There are others who fit this bill perfectly. Or who have a wholesome respect for boundaries before creativity is allowed in the door. My imagination is always ahead of real life.Writing about food in the way that I do involves noting the influence of food on life and life on food and attempting to weave an accurate cultural landscape. Anything representing efficiency and structure, or measuring cups, are only allowed on my loom because of their nostalgic quality, because of the charm of carrying old tins around and insisting they stand in for more precise measures. Measuring food in Nigeria stands out in its unsystematic nature. It clashes with the necessary standardisation of “measuring”. I would not be true to the personality of our food if I were caught up in pounds and ounces, yet I do not see how anyone can write a contemporary Nigerian cookbook that could join the global dialogue without acknowledging pounds and ounces or cups.Not that I have anything against recipes. I give some and suggest twists in the use of time-honoured ones. But I have always wanted to do other things, like deconstruct the Nigerian Christmas stew. In many other countries, Christmas meals must be complicated, sophisticated and dressed up, otherwise people feel that Christmas has been taken for granted. The Nigerian Christmas stew is 70% psychological fare and 30% gastronomical fanfare. Give the villager roast turkey dressed with the most expensive ingredients in the world and he will still just want his Christmas rice and stew. The psychological and gastronomical balance adds up to the same 100% no matter what.The context is especially significant. It is Christmas fare because it is cooked around midnight on Christmas Eve and the aroma wakes everyone in the house (or at least filters into pleasant dreams) and welcomes home those who felt the need to greet Christmas Day in church.The rice is Uncle Ben’s parboiled rice. It’s imported, but the prestige given to Uncle Ben’s rice, which isn’t at all special, is peculiarly Nigerian. I think we might still find the kindly black man’s face on the orange box reassuring. The meat in the stew is the tough old laying chicken that wandered the village all year. All in all, a simple meal, yet Christmas embraces it as the best fare of the year. Christmas will never be Christmas without plain, simple rice and stew. This is a uniquely Nigerian story.So many Nigerian perceptions of food and relationships with food traverse the borders of spirit and body. Cooking itself is a holistic exercise that can never exclude the spiritual. What you eat enters your whole being, finds its way into your soul and touches your dreams. What you cook is informed by everything about you: your mood, spirit, environment, temperament. Many Nigerians will decline a meal prepared by someone whose spirit they do not trust, although a few will eat that food to confirm their lack of trust. Restaurant meals don’t count, because the food is being cooked for or is aimed at the stomachs of many people, not one person. A man will request a meal from a woman to prove her (in)eligibility for marriage.And yet Nigerians don’t talk about their food. Even if people don’t realise it, even if many Nigerians themselves don’t know it, Nigerian food an endearing, enduring topic, because we have gone so long without talking about it. The relationship of the nouveau middle-to-upper-income-earning Nigerian to their food is a mixture of love, snobbery, the passion that results from the snobbery, and social repression. Nigerians will sit in restaurants – in every part of the world, in Lagos, and in Abuja – and eat sushi, fugu, Peruvian ceviche and piure. They will eat it all with an open mind, a fierce worldliness and a sexy congeniality, and then they will go home and bring out the amala (yam flour) and ewedu soup.But we won’t start a public discussion with those who do not know our food intimately. I think perhaps it is a way of keeping what is sacrosanct just so by not tainting it with words.I can still write a million expositions and a few recipes on Nigerian food and make the world – and even Nigerians – wonder. I blogged about Nigerian food at Nigerian newspaper 234NEXT for close to three years, and in that time only scratched the surface of what our food is about.I think the person on the street has stopped keeping count of tribes and local government areas and languages and dialects within languages; imagine millions of people divided along those endless lines.I am often amazed that, in 2016, people still try to take Nigerian food and squeeze it into this all-encompassing title of “African food”. I guess that the rest of the world is seeking a kind of exotic simplification: a working summary, an effective way of getting the feeling across that Africa will fit in your handbag as a commodity, a book, a piece of cloth. However, I wonder why Nigerians themselves agree to the use of the term. The British and the French would feel their food was being belittled if you tried to lump them all under the term “European food”.I don’t know Congolese food. The Congolese man on the street probably doesn’t know Nigerian food. This table where all of us “Africans” are seated eating the same food just doesn’t exist. And the idea of it is so unsophisticated that one just wonders.The instinctive connection of “Nigerian” with “soup” and “stodge” is a lazy stereotype: Nigerian food is often stodgy and soupy, but it is also misunderstood, atrociously photographed, not yet given its due. It’s a multifaceted cultural treasure trove full of intriguing stories. It might not be gastronomically illustrious but it is energetic and good-hearted. It belongs to one of the most fascinating personalities in the world: the Nigerian. Needless to say, it is delectable.Longthroat Memoirs: Soups, Sex and Nigerian Taste Buds by Yemisi Aribisala (Cassava Republic) was recognised with the John Avery Award at the 2016 André Simon Food and Drink Book Awards last week; andresimon.co.ukWe’d like to hear your ideas for spicing things up in the kitchen for a feature in Guardian Cook. Share your ideas here!