All Together Now: The Great Orchestra Challenge8pm, BBC2Katie Derham presents the finale of the show in which amateur orchestras compete for a place to perform at the Proms in Hyde Park. As much as this is a celebration of music, under the gaze of judge Paul Daniel and the personable mentoring of Chi-chi Nwanoku the show does best with characters discovered within the ranks of musicians. How will they balance their commitments and their personal lives as the pressure mounts? John RobinsonThe Severn Bridge At 50: A High Wire Act 7pm, BBC2Straightforward but interesting doc contemplating the half-century of the Severn Bridge. Though there’s not much to say beyond “It’s been here 50 years”, there is a compelling story of engineering and logistics underpinning it. The film meets the people who keep traffic flowing – which, as is often the case with things we take for granted, is more difficult than it looks – and explores the unceasing task of maintenance. Andrew MuellerThe Last Leg: Live From Rio 8pm, Channel 48pm, Channel 4On the penultimate day of this year’s Paralympic Games, Adam Hills, Josh Widdicombe and Alex Brooker bring their japes to an end with an unofficial closing ceremony. So far it’s been a warm and inclusive accompaniment to the competition, with the #isitok hashtag leading to some taboo-busting conversation. Tonight they’re joined by athletes including swimmer-turned-cyclist Sarah Storey and discus pro Dan Greaves. Hannah J DaviesNewzoids 9pm, ITVThe second series of the potshot puppet satire continues. It may be more interested in being mean about celebrities than angry at politicians, but at least Newzoids has a distinctive look: the primitive Action Man-style marionettes with weirdly slick CGI mouths are vividly grotesque. Tonight’s instalment also promises some blue-on-blue action by taking an axe to ITV2 totem Keith Lemon and Xtra Factor host Rylan Clark-Neal among others. Graeme VirtueBeck: Steinar 9pm, BBC4After recent traumatic events, Beck isn’t sleeping so well, and his boss is feigning concern while harbouring thoughts of getting rid of the old fella. Could the arrival of new team member Steinar Hovland – a Norwegian detective played by bear-like and charismatic Kristofer Hivju of Game Of Thrones fame – be the one to shunt Beck towards retirement? We find out in an episode that begins with the discovery of a charred body in a caravan park. Jonathan Wright Blue Wild Angel: Jimi Hendrix At The Isle Of Wight 4.40pm, Sky ArtsIt wasn’t the last gig he’d ever play (and it wasn’t his best), but it would turn out to be his final UK performance: on 30 August 1970, Hendrix wowed 600,000 people – nearly double the number at Woodstock – with the likes of Voodoo Chile and Machine Gun, amid revolting weather, technical glitches and smashed perimeter fences. Nineteen days later he was dead, aged 27. A muddy, messy farewell. Ali CatterallMachine Impossible 6pm, National GeographicIn which “tech upcycler” Max McMurdo and engineer Mischa Pollack travel the world to seek out the latest in cutting-edge technology. This week it’s cars, from fully automated, driverless numbers in Seoul to the impressively dodgem-esque manoeuvrability of the EO2 electric “urban vehicle” from Germany. Then – for reasons that are slightly less clear – the pair embark on building their own “flying car” (it’s a glider). Ben ArnoldFilm choiceBuffy The Vampire Slayer(Fran Rubel Kuzui, 1992) 5.10pm, SyfyIt all started here… This is the movie that launched the cult TV series without, oddly, achieving that status itself. Kristy Swanson plays the nubile San Fernando Valley girl accosted by creepy Merrick (Donald Sutherland), who tells her she is the chosen one – ie, it is her life mission to slay vampires – and soon she’s into the stakes-and-kicks with a vengeance. Good, sharp-fanged fun, with Rutger Hauer as the master bloodsucker. Ben Affleck and Hilary Swank also appear. Paul Howlett      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A triumphant tale … Toy Story 3. Photograph: Allstar/WALT DISNEY/PIXARToy Story 3(Lee Unkrich, 2010) 5.30pm, BBC1The trilogy (as it was then) winds up with this poignant outing, tugging harder on the heartstrings and confronting that bittersweet time when teenagers put away their toys. So, when young Andy heads for college, Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen), Jessie (Joan Cusack) and the other toys are accidentally dispatched to the daycare centre-cum-nightmare prison. A triumphant tale of love, loyalty and a megalomaniac teddy bear. PHThe Warriors(Walter Hill, 1979), 11.10pm, Film4Walter Hill’s cult 1970s action movie is the pared-down tale of New York gang the Warriors, summoned to a meeting of the clans in the Bronx, being framed for a killing and having to fight their way back to their Coney Island patch, pursued by every other gang on the streets. It features muscular performances from a cool young bunch including Michael Beck and James Remar. PHToday’s Best Live Sport Championship Football: Cardiff City v Leeds United 12noon, Sky Sports Birmingham City v Sheffield Wednesday follows (kick-off 5.30pm).Paralympics 2016 1pm, Channel 4 Coverage of the penultimate day of the Games in Rio, featuring cycling, athletics and sailing.Davis Cup Tennis 4.30pm, BBC2 Great Britain v Argentina on day two of the World Group semi-final from Glasgow.