The day before we speak, Sarah Blasko had a wonderful shock: Elton John gave her a shout-out on late night TV. “There’s a girl in Australia called Sarah Blasko,” John said, when asked by James Corden if he’s ever tempted to just rest on his laurels. “Whenever you hear something new that inspires from the young, it makes you feel like you want to do that.”“It made my year,” laughs Blasko, who covered John’s Goodbye Yellow Brick Road in 2006. She had a hint he was a fan of hers, too: “Somebody from the record shop Red Eye in Sydney sent my manager an email telling me that [when he was in Australia in December] Elton John had bought five copies of my album. So that was exciting enough!”The album in question, Eternal Return, is Blasko’s fifth record and, earlier this month, was shortlisted for the prestigious Australian Music Prize. The album, which was given a five-star review in the Guardian on release, offsets a surprising 80s synth-pop sensibility with themes of love and longing, and waves of melancholia. While Blasko acknowledges that it is indeed a love album – settled with her partner, PVT’s Dave Miller, she recorded Eternal Return while pregnant with their first child – she has been at pains to separate her own narrative with music that she hopes everyone can relate to.Sarah Blasko: There’s strength in taking songwriting away from your identity “Sometimes I wish a little bit that I hadn’t mentioned that I’d had a child, because inevitably people tend to focus on that,” she says. “And I think as a woman – I’m sure you’d understand – people like to focus on those parts of your personal life. But I never wanted my own personal story to overshadow anything. “Yes it’s my own fault – surely I should have known what I was revealing – but sometimes you don’t quite realise how much you’ve said.”The album’s latest single, I Wanna Be Your Man, lyrically deals with Blasko’s experience of gender inequality – “It’s easy for a woman to feel marginalised in the male-dominated world of the music industry,” Dave Faulkner wrote of the track in the album’s bio – but, in an attempt to broaden its themes, the film clip, which will be released on Friday, adds a whole new dimension. The clip is a two-hander between Blasko and Newtown-based drag performer Aaron Manahan (who goes by Aaron Manhattan), who mouths much of the song, including the refrain “It’s easy come, easy go, living in a man’s world” – and, suddenly, the song’s story becomes more complex than Blasko’s relationship with the music industry. “I knew that that [gender inequality] is how people were going to read the song, because that’s what the song is: it’s about my perspective about being a woman in a man’s world,” she says. “But I thought it was too simple to have a video that was just about that. So I said to Warwick [Field, the clip’s director] that I really wanted it to be about much more than that. I really wanted to ... add different layers of meaning to the song.“Aaron felt like an important choice to me. He’s a really beautiful person and a very attractive person, very charismatic, but I love the fact that he is a person who breaks down a lot of those definitions of what it means to be either a woman or a man. He just is what he is. “It relates to me in the sense that I’m always – you’re always wishing that people would just view you for you ... but sometimes you feel like it always has to be associated with your gender.” She’s not distancing herself from the political message of her song, either. “I’ve pretty much felt like that every time I’ve made a record,” she says. “[But] you want to make a strong statement, and not whinge, and it’s a fine line sometimes.“There’s a view that people could take – like, ‘Oh you’re an angry woman’ – which I am!” she laughs. “I am an angry woman, and I’m pissed off! But when you make something, you want it to be about more than that.”I Wanna Be Your Man.