In the weeks after Dave Okumu’s mum died, the Invisible frontman had a recurring dream. He saw blackness, deep and infinite, like the night sky without stars. In the top left-hand corner of his vision was a tear.“I knew that cut was my mum’s death,” Okumu says. “It was like a wound in the fabric of the universe. But through it was pouring this extraordinary light. The tear was tiny but the light coming through was unstoppable, and it overpowered the black so effortlessly.” He pauses and sips his tea. “I don’t think I’d be OK now if I hadn’t had that dream.”The Invisible: Patience review – complex and brilliantly original pop The Invisible’s last album, 2012’s Rispah, confronted that darkness. Their new record, however – in its own rhythmically complex, dustily tuneful way – feels flooded with joy. It’s full of give-backs from artists with whom Okumu has previously written or played for: art-rock dramatist Anna Calvi, electronic R&B singer Rosie Lowe, psych-pop Kiwi Connan Mockasin, and Jessie Ware, most of whose debut album, Devotion, he produced and co-wrote. Arrangements simultaneously pat their heads and rub their tummies, and you’re swept up at unexpected moments by strong melodic currents. Greeted with five-star reviews, Patience is a record teeming with life.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Take your pick with the meaning of that album title. There’s the long grief process. There’s the way the Invisible’s music – informed by post-punk, funk, nu-soul, jazz, hip-hop and Afrobeat – unpacks itself over successive listens. “I find it funny when people seem to resent complexity,” says Okumu. “It exists all around us. A house is a simple concept to grasp but it contains so much detail.”Then there’s the trio’s own unhurried career: 10 years, three albums, one Mercury nomination, and a commitment to working hard in what friend Paloma Faith semi-jokingly calls “credible obscurity”. Okumu, drummer Leo Taylor and bass/synth player Tom Herbert shared a bill with Faith at their very first gig in Kilburn. It was obvious who was more likely to make people sit up and take notice. Faith had pouches of stage blood tied to her inner thighs; the Invisible had jazzy leanings.You wouldn’t know it, bumping into Okumu outside his flat on Deptford High Street in south London, with his grin as broad as his gait and dreadlocks bouncing, but Patience also refers to the long hard slog of physical healing. In 2012, Okumu suffered a severe electric shock while performing in Lagos. As he and Herbert exchanged instruments, he felt “this extreme, alien pain. Then I started to see loved ones,” before Herbert managed to break the circuit. Okumu was still conscious as the earthing current shot down his right leg and shattered his bone. “There was this eerie silence as I lay on the stage. And then this sound came out of me, from deep in my spirit – a laugh of victory. This album is about celebrating our triumph over adversity and pain.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dave Okumu performs in Paris, November 2010. Photograph: Samuel Dietz/RedfernsOkumu is one of those funny, warm, thoughtful beings with the ability to reclaim self-help cliches and give them fresh significance. We meet on the morning of the Brexit result, and our initial mood is bleak. Okumu was born in Vienna to a Kenyan family who moved to the UK when he was 10. He knows how it feels to be an outsider. Having only recently acquired British citizenship, he also knows the value of free movement. “You wouldn’t believe some of the things I went through as a touring musician on a Kenyan passport,” he says. “Sometimes I’ve felt like I needed a visa to get on the tube.” He’s devastated by Brexit’s victory of “fear over complex thought”. Fear of the unknown, as he puts it, is not a good look.But after four hours and a packet of Fox’s Viennese Chocolate Melts, I’m filled with what feels curiously like hope. I start to understand why artists such as Ware and Lowe entrusted this guy with their debut records: people share songs with him like confidences. Mockasin calls him “my African dad”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vision quest: The Invisible’s Dave Okumu. Photograph: Phil SharpWhen not fronting the Invisible, Okumu serves as something like British music’s munificent uncle. He recently directed the Gil Scott-Heron tribute, Pieces Of A Man, at London’s Roundhouse. Last month he dropped everything at a day’s notice to play Mockasin’s sell-out Meltdown show. And as a co-writer and producer, he is the collaborator you seek out when you crave music that’s more meaningful than hits. He rejects “Tinder-style writing sessions” and takes time to work out what each artist needs. For Ware, it was about “hanging out in my kitchen and drinking quite a lot of Prosecco”. For another singer, it meant sporadically leaving the room. “That to me was as valid as playing five million instruments on her track,” he says. “It’s not about staking a claim. It’s about facilitating a process, bringing out the best in someone.”Okumu’s rapport with female artists is no coincidence. He has six older sisters, and credits them with his love of Grace Jones and his “profound empathy with women in the music industry. I see how they are mistreated”. His dad, meanwhile, is Professor Washington Okumu, the peace negotiator whose last-minute intervention in 1994 averted civil war in South Africa and allowed Nelson Mandela to come to power. “He’d disappeared for a while and I didn’t know what he was up to,” Okumu remembers. “One morning I went into school in London and my dad was on the front page of the newspaper, sat with the peace agreement next to Nelson Mandela.”We chat about the power of background – if not quite invisible – forces, and the efficacy of humility. His dad quietly redirected the course of history. Might Okumu, if he’ll forgive the disproportionate comparison, be unobtrusively shifting the future of pop music?“I believe that we’re all original thinkers,” he says. “If you’re allowed to pursue your own creative path, you will be original. I love getting back together with the Invisible and scratching that itch. But I also feel there’s something very important about getting your hands dirty and learning to work with other people. That doesn’t happen enough in London. It’s awash with people trying to sustain creative lives in strange, anxious bubbles. I’m sure there are people who go, ‘Why doesn’t Dave just get on with his own stuff?’ But I’m trying to do everything in my power to rally against that isolation.”A living, breathing antidote to the Brexit blues, Okumu is all about looking outwards. Good things, he knows, come to those who collaborate.Patience is out now on Ninja Tune. The Invisible play Latitude festival, Blythbrough, 14-17 July