“Fourteen years ago, from the bowels of Bow E3, the voice of a generation emerged, blinking furiously under the glare of Canary Wharf’s aggressively gleaming paean to financial power. It was dark, it was angry, it was loud, it was unapologetic. It was innately provocative, it was fiercely independent. It was the brittle sound of disillusionment, resentment and despair, but also the voice of hope. It was grime.”So begins This Is Grime, a new book by i-D magazine music editor and grime fanatic Hattie Collins, with original photography by Olivia Rose. The book is an oral and visual history of grime music: the striking black-and-white photography is interspersed with quotes from all the major players of the early scene – Dizzee Rascal, Wiley, Kano, Lethal Bizzle – talking about the origins of the movement, as well as the newer generation – Stormzy, Little Simz, Novelist – on how it’s evolving. It is framed like a conversation between the artists, who share self-contained snippets about learning their craft, writing, recording, how pirate radio shaped the genre’s sound and the inspirations behind their music. There are also longer essays that explore certain themes in more depth, for example, Danny Weed and DJ Target on style and fashion, Mizz Beats on her struggles with depression and others on violence, religion and inequality. Apart from a brief introduction, Collins only interjects once in the book, to acknowledge her friend and early grime advocate Chantelle Fiddy. But the rest of the book is fittingly in the words of the artists themselves. Grime gave a voice to a generation of young people who felt voiceless, something that feels particularly timely in the light of the UK’s growing #BlackLivesMatter movement, which, along with Mark Duggan, gets a mention in the book’s dedication. This Is Grime by Hattie Collins and Olivia Rose is published by Hodder & Stoughton on 8 September (£25). Click here to buy a copy for £20.50      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Novelist, at Prestige Barbers, Brockley SE4:“People love to say our culture came from hip-hop, but it actually comes from the Caribbean ragga scene if anything – you know, actual proper MCing. And the only way you can really practise to be like that is on a pirate radio station, because legal radio wants to censor everything, so you can’t really wile out and just go crazy and do your own thing properly. That’s why grime is what it is now – pirate radio and practising is what made all the MCs how they are, the rhyming schemes and patterns. Pirate is the playground for all that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Little Simz: “I don’t look at it in terms of categories: I’m just an artist, that’s it. I don’t like labels, with anything. Even when I’m seeing a guy and he’s like, ‘So what is this?’ It is what it is. Labels are just for other people. In a year’s time, I could wanna do an album that is heavily influenced by rock’n’roll. Then what? I’m a person that likes to learn and likes to grow. I like to be a sponge. I’m willing to try something and fail at it. I don’t mind doing that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kano, E6:“Dizzee phoned me one day, or I phoned him, and it was one of those, ‘What’s going on, I’ve heard about you. Touching base,’ type of ones. I told him I had a tune or whatever and he said, ‘OK, I’ll take you to the studio.’ Back then, no one really had tunes. So we got a bit of love on the radio, people calling up and whatever. It was more slow build though. I didn’t really know it was popular until I went to Palace Pavilion with N.A.S.T.Y [Crew]. I stepped on the stage and the crowd just went mad.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stormzy, Dalston N16:“The most important thing is to remain a good person. Forget music or fame or popularity, just being a good, decent, polite human is way more important than being the guy. Me being a good brother or a good son or a good friend means more than being a top MC.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mizz Beats, Balfron Tower, Poplar E14:“I started music when I was about 12 or 13; messing around trying to find my sound. It wasn’t planned – if I’d had it my way, I wouldn’t have done anything until I was in my mid-20s, when I would have been ready. I wasn’t that cool kid: I didn’t go to my first rave until I was 18; I used to just stay in and make music. I was extremely shy… I don’t think I knew how to deal with it all. One minute I was this kid in my bedroom making music, all of a sudden MTV are in my house… everybody wants to be my friend. It was a shock.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mez, Dalston N16:“I don’t think anything has changed, I just think the internet changed everything: people from all over the world are able to see what’s going on. As long as everyone individually works and does what they’re supposed to do, the scene will be all right.”All interviews by Hattie Collins