It opens with a woman reaching up for a cereal bowl and closes with a new beginning – or at least it does for the moment. By the time you get to read it, my copy of A Universe Explodes will have changed. Tea Uglow’s story about a disintegrating life has been built to be literally deconstructed, with readers required to make small edits to the book’s text, as it passes from one owner to the next.What apps next? Publishers and developers embrace 'unprintable' fiction One hundred separate versions have been published online by Editions at Play, a digital publisher that specialises in “books that cannot be printed”. You can read any of the 100 editions for free – but if you’re lucky enough to own one, prepare yourself for some creative destruction: each version can only be passed on to a new owner after it has been modified. Owners must add one word and remove two from each of the story’s 21 pages and are stopped from moving forward through the book until they’ve made the required interventions.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Making an edit in A Universe Explodes. Photograph: Editions at PlayThese changes are stored on a permanent, public record using Blockchain, the technology that underpins bitcoin – and the process begins again, with each new owner altering the book they are given, adding and subtracting words as they see fit. Each edition is a link in a gradually fraying chain, as all 100 of them slowly lose words, until just one word is left on each page.Making permanent, public changes to someone else’s story is an unsettling experience, but I dived right in. What was this story about? What could I add to those 128 words on the first page? What should I take away?Old habits of editing kicked in straight away and I started removing adjectives and equivocations, adding new words with as much discretion as I could muster. But in the absence of any contact with the author, the one-word-in-two-words-out rule made the process feel less like editing and more like erosion. There’s no way to detach a word from a full stop or question mark, so those were clearly off limits … or were they? These kind of glitches would be inevitable in the end, so what was the point of me tiptoeing around? So I went back to the beginning and started removing main verbs, lopping off the end of sentences, nudging Uglow’s story of a parent whose world is on the point of dissolution one step further towards oblivion.Uglow, who is also creative director of the Google Creative Labs team in Sydney, says the idea for A Universe Explodes came from the realisation that while “in the ‘real’ world a shared book will fall to pieces, pages rip, words smudge”, readers left no fingerprint when they shared electronic ebooks – because they did not actually own an object, just a licence to read it.“This was not the relationship between the reader and the book that we were trying so hard to replicate,” she wrote on Medium. “It also made us realise that like a paperback, these digital experiments fall apart quite fast. Yet the implications of a licence were that, unlike a book, it would last forever. If you own a book offline you look after your possessions, but this is not the case online. Our experience did not correspond with how we instinctively wanted readers to respond to our books. That they should have the sense of owning something special.”I can’t say that the experience of chipping away at A Universe Explodes feels much like ownership, but as the changes mount up, it will be interesting to watch each version diverge and dissolve. A gradually disintegrating book seems just right for a story circling around questions of inheritance and loss, happiness and dust, and Uglow’s original has enough punch to cut through the unfamiliar technology. All I need to do now is work out whom I should pass my copy on to.