Apparently, 11% of British women believe that Titanic contains the most romantic line ever uttered in literature or film. Not “the most romantic line from a film released in 1997”, or even “the most romantic line spoken while both parties were submerged in a large body of cold water”. More than one in 10 women surveyed thought the work of Shelley, Keats and Byron has less romantic resonance than Leo’s “Promise me you’ll survive.”Given that Kate Winslet recently revealed what we all know – that there was definitely room for Jack on the raft – the whole scene seems to owe more to Artaud’s Theatre of Cruelty than Love Story. Yet a sizable proportion of us still reckon love is never having to say you’re sorry as you watch the man who painted you in the nuddy losing his lung capacity. It was the third most popular choice in the survey.Kate Winslet breaks silence on Titanic raft end: 'He could have actually fitted' The winner was “My heart is, and will always be, yours”, spoken by Edward Ferrars in the film of Sense and Sensibility which is, if nothing else, easy to remember. Next came Dirty Dancing, and Baby’s “I’m scared of what I saw, I’m scared of what I did, of who I am, and most of all I’m scared of walking out of this room and never feeling the rest of my whole life the way I feel when I’m with you.” At least no one picked “I carried a watermelon”.Ultimately, it’s impossible to be objective about love. If any of these lines make us believe in a fictional passion, or leave us full of longing, or just make us weep for reasons we can’t quite explain, then they have succeeded, regardless of the beauty of the language or the true sense of the sentiment. However, I also reckon I could throw a rock into a library and hit a piece of prose that’s much more romantic than any of the lines that appeared on the survey. Here are some alternatives …From The Pursuit of Love by Nancy Mitford“It was like seeing somebody in the street who you think is a friend, you whistle and wave and run after him, and it is not only not the friend, but not even very like him. A few minutes later the real friend appears in view, and then you can’t imagine how you ever mistook that other person for him.”This is about instantly falling for someone and realising the love you feel is the authentic one that will turn your black-and-white world Technicolor. I adore Mitford’s suggestion that the sensation is accompanied by a feeling of “Duh! What was I even thinking before!?” It’s exactly how I felt when I met my husband. As though I was on University Challenge and Jeremy Paxman was telling me an answer that had been obvious all along.From True Romance by Quentin Tarantino“I kept asking Clarence why our world seemed to be collapsing and everything seemed so shitty. And he’d say, ‘That’s the way it goes, but don’t forget, it goes the other way too.’ That’s the way romance is.”To love, you have to hope. You sign up for spells of wretchedness, but still believe there’s no dying ember that can’t be coaxed back to fiery life with warm and gentle breath. True Romance is a gory accidental heist movie, but it’s also about a man who would do anything for the woman he loves (including killing her pimp) because he knows that no matter how tough things get, “it goes the other way, too”.From The Beautiful and Damned by F Scott Fitzgerald“Don’t say ‘wife’. I’m your mistress. Wife’s such an ugly word. Your ‘permanent mistress’ is so much more tangible and desirable…”This is about the vulnerability of love, and the sometimes suffocating need to be someone’s everything. Anti-heroine Gloria is appealing to her husband Anthony to keep looking at her anew, to combine the intimacy and tenderness of a long-term relationship with that sheer, shocked passion felt when two people are still exploring each other. For me, this line epitomises romantic love at its most selfish and impossible. We’ve all been there.From Parks and Recreation by Greg Daniels“I love you and I like you.”This line, spoken by character Leslie Knope while making her wedding vows, is one of the most romantic things I have ever heard. It’s about the way love is strengthened by friendship and respect. A promise to love feels grand and eternal, but vowing to like someone is a small act that needs to be practised every day. I feel so strongly about this one that I used it in my own wedding speech.From The Richard Burton Diaries by Richard Burton“After seven or eight years, I still miss her if she goes to the bathroom.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Burton’s words conjure up all that we can hope for from romantic love.’ Photograph: Everett Collection/Rex FeaturesBurton and Taylor’s enduring, complex love is well documented, but I think Burton’s words conjure up all that we can hope for from romantic love. To never get used to someone. To be separated for seconds and still think, “Hurrah, it’s you!” when you see their face in a crowd, even when you’ve just lost track of them for a bit at the supermarket.Most of us will hopefully never fully understand how it feels to watch our love fall from the edge of a life raft. But we know that our relationships are in great shape if we can still feel tender towards our partners even after they’ve just spent ages in the loo.