Euro 2016: England v Slovakia7.15pm, ITVWith Wales facing off against Russia at the same time (7.15pm, ITV4), the fate of Group B is decided tonight. After England’s win against the Welsh last week, the team just need a point to secure their place in the next round. Paul MacInnesThe Secret Life of Kittens8pm, Channel 5More young cats filmed in close-up, as rescue kittens explore new homes. Is that a cashmere jumper on the reclaimed iron radiator, Peanut? And oh, Rory, you’re obsessed with your iPad! Yes, these animals have all lucked out and joined the snuggly middle classes. Harder-hearted viewers might long to see the kittens grow up, go outside and come back in to dump mangled vermin on the cream carpets. Jack SealeHandmade: By Royal Appointment 8.30pm, BBC4Like the enamelled gold locket that takes shape in tonight’s show, BBC4’s absorbing arts-and-crafts procedural crams a remarkable amount of intricate detail – biographical, technical, even socio-economic – into a restricted space. It profiles Simon Benney, the holder of three royal warrants and son of revolutionary silversmith Gerald Benney, operating a bespoke jewellery business from the family pile in Wiltshire. Graeme VirtueThe Musketeers 9pm, BBC1As angry war veterans prepare to march on the palace seeking revenge against the king’s stab-happy brother Gaston, strapped-up peacocks the musketeers are – as usual – hamstrung by their fealty to the crown. Can the Marquis de Feron (Rupert Everett) turn the volatile situation to his advantage? He’ll certainly try, though Feron might be a better villain if his lank hair, deathly pallor and unsteady gait weren’t quite so reminiscent of Frank from Shameless. GVThe Great British Sewing Bee 9pm, BBC2Lycra can be a cruel mistress at the best of times, so it’s with much trepidation that the final five approach a leisurewear challenge. First on the sewing machine is a men’s cycling top. “It just wants to go all wibbly on your seams,” observes Charlotte. A ski-suit from the 80s yields a few hipster-style garments and a number of guffaws in the alteration challenge, while there are also some impressive attempts at yoga-wear. Hannah VerdierBeyond the Headlines: The Carlina White Story10pm, Crime & InvestigationNormally favouring reconstruction-heavy docs on grizzly 90s homicides, every now and then this channel delves into true-crime cases that genuinely intrigue. This new strand explores prominent and infamous cases, such as the story of Carlina White, who realised that the woman she thought was her mother had in fact kidnapped her from a New York hospital when she was just 19 days old. Hannah J DaviesGame of Thrones9pm, Sky AtlanticAfter last week’s lack of drama, with Tyrion even having time to sit around and tell jokes, expect a traditionally action-packed penultimate episode, a straight-up massed battle between Jon Snow and unmitigated psychopath Ramsay Bolton. Game of Thrones has shown signs of decline this series but there are still flashes of greatness; even if it’s not what it once was, you’d be advised not to blink during this one. David StubbsFILM8½ (Federico Fellini, 1963), 5.20pm, Sky ArtsFrom a director much inclined to share his life with his audience, this is Fellini’s most explicitly autobiographical work. He has his favourite leading man, Marcello Mastroianni, as an anguished director “trying to pull together the pieces of his life and make sense of them”, as he once explained. An exotic meld of fact and fantasy, it also stars Claudia Cardinale and Anouk Aimée. Paul HowlettFair Game (Doug Liman, 2010), 6.50pm, Film4When CIA operative Valerie Plame’s cover was deliberately blown by her bosses in 2003, a full-scale political scandal followed. Given Doug Liman’s Bourne Identity experience, he’s just the man to construct this gripping movie. Naomi Watts is highly impressive as Plame, struggling to hold her life together; Sean Penn plays her ex-diplomat husband Joe Wilson. PHSPORTTennis: Aegon Open 12noon, Eurosport 1 Another Wimbledon warmup at the Nottingham Tennis Centre.Cricket: Women’s One-Day International 1.55pm, Sky Sports 2 The first in a three-match series between England and Pakistan, from Leicester’s Grace Road.MLB: Los Angeles Dodgers v Washington Nationals 3am, BT Sport/ESPN National League encounter at Dodger Stadium.