Theatre1 The Lion KingIn hindsight it seems absurd that anyone ever questioned the wisdom of transposing the famed animated movie to the stage. The glory of Julie Taymor’s production was that she didn’t try to create a facsimile of the film – as has happened with subsequent Disney adaptations – but made something both familiar and entirely new. The puppetry remains terrific, and for a family outing this is hard to beat.At the Lyceum, WC2, to 1 October2 La StradaSally Cookson doesn’t aim to put Fellini’s iconic movie on stage. Instead, she creates a piece of musical theatre seen through the eyes of Gelsomina, a poor girl who discovers that life holds unexpected possibilities when she encounters a circus. It’s a show that is understated, never flashy, and bittersweet, with a delightful performance from Audrey Brisson as Gelsomina and delicately judged musical interventions from Benji Bower.At Bristol Old Vic to 22 April3 The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-TimeTime is running out to be pawed by this lovable page-to-stage adaptation, whose West End run finally comes to an end this summer. It has deserved all of its success with every component working well, from Simon Stephens’s script and Stephen Hoggett and Scott Graham’s movement to Marianne Elliott’s direction and Bunny Christie’s design. The only consolation is that the touring version is still making its way around the UK.At the Gielgud, W1, to 3 June4 GuerrillaThere is a lot to like at Transform 17, the Leeds-based festival that features The Darkest Corners, a new show from RashDash, and Javaad Alipoor’s The Believers Are But Brothers, which explores an online world of fantasy and violence. The big international show is El Conde de Torrefiel’s Guerrilla, which offers a portrait of Europe on the edge of anxiety.At West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, 21-22 April5 Alice’s Adventures UndergroundThe White Rabbit and the Mad Hatter are back, as are those terrible twins, Tweedledum and Tweedledee – here reimagined as aerialists – in Les Enfants Terribles’ version of Lewis Carroll’s story. The sprawling spaces under Waterloo station provide a suitably atmospheric setting and there are some terrific visual coups, most notably the Mad Hatter’s tea party with its massive spouting teapots. This immersive experience is far pricier than simply falling down a rabbit hole, but there are wonders to behold.The Vaults, SE1, 15-23 SepDance      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pan Lingjuan (Mulan) and Huang Lei (her father) in The Legend of Mulan. Photograph: S2 Production1 The Legend of MulanFirst UK showing for the Hong Kong Dance company’s signature dance drama, which tells the classic folk tale of a young woman who disguises herself as a man in order to defend her family and her country. Royal Festival Hall, SE1, 15 April2 Dance International GlasgowThe second edition of this excellent biennial festival features works by Shobana Jeyasingh, James Cousins and Liz Aggiss – and Scottish Ballet dancing hip-hop. Various venues, 21 April to 21 May3 MK UltraThe intrepid, engaging Rosie Kay and company explore conspiracy theories, cults and celebrity, which collide in the shadowy world of the Illuminati.Laban Theatre, SE8, 20 April; touring to 18 May 