Hometown: Toronto.The lineup: Jacob Bitove (vocals), Nick Bitove (drums), Andrew Keyes (bass), James Tebbits (guitar).The background: Romes look like a Brooklyn boyband, and they sound a bit like one too; possibly Years & Years if they came from Williamsburg. They’re actually from Toronto, where they have been working on the material for their debut EP, Believe, with Tony Hoffer, producer for Beck, Phoenix and Air. In many ways they’re a North American version of the 1975 with their catchy, shiny, R&B-pop-funk, heavy on the sort of choppy guitar the sort Matthew Healy and co have turned into a fashionable accoutrement. Like last week’s new band New Portals, Romes have an Irish pre-history. No, nothing to do with potato famines. They used to be based in Wicklow, where they operated as Nightbox, praised in 2014 for their “soaringly sad synth-rock” and for vaguely resembling “a Strokes more into Depeche Mode and a-Ha than Television”. Since then, they’ve dropped a member and changed their name and domicile, which has somewhat affected their music. Goodbye “sad”, hello exuberant: the four tracks on their EP virtually knock you down with their brio and self-belief. The title song features a litany of self-empowering tropes (“You’re never going to break me down”, “I”m gonna be who I wanna be ... I’ll do it my way”), but it also has, as the lyrics posit, “the energy of a tidal wave”. Its resultant charge is like being plugged into the mains. “I’ve got gold running through my veins,” sings Jacob Bitove in his appealing voice, in love with its own cuteness, clearly unaware of the toxic properties of said chemical element. There are big, metallic enhanced handclaps – the sound of a large crowd cheering this young band over the finishing line. Surrounded by swirling synths and ebullient percussion, Romes sound giddy with possibility. Tryna Be is even better. It opens with synth-chipmunk squeaks à la Michael Jackson circa PYT over a dubby electronic beat, then the lyrics paint a picture of Weeknd-style Toronto Noir&B desolation (“2am I’m lonely, ooh been laying side by side”). But the music quickly develops into something at the opposite end of the spectrum, with its forcefully joyous surge of upwards-rising harmonies and starburst synths. It’s no fluke, either. Spend the Night is bubblegum boyband pop with a frisson of risqué to appease certain millennials keen to flirt with something darker, while the growling synths, burbling bass and scything INXS-ive guitars bear traces of harder, more credible electronic and rock sources. Romes love their “woah-oh-oh”s, because the fourth track on the EP, When the Night Comes, boasts one such irresistible pop refrain. The song also has the staccato strut and dazzling sheen of Duran Duran, only given a modern makeover. Meet the 1985. The buzz: “With all the jubilant skyward synths and angel-dusted production you can handle, Tryna Be is a lightning in a bottle debut that’s good to the last drop” – Neon Gold. The truth: They are so beautiful yet so aware of it. Most likely to: Be naked. Least likely to: Lose their head. What to buy: The Believe EP is released on 8 April by Five Seven. File next to: Years & Years, the 1975, Duran Duran, INXS.Links: Facebook.com/Romes. Ones to watch: Weaves, Lao Ra, Weirdo, Blondage, Empty Houses.