Former children’s laureate Malorie Blackman is one of the nation’s most loved teen authors, with a passion for sci-fi, V for Vendetta and Shakespeare. In her new novel, Chasing the Stars, she re-imagines one of Shakespeare’s most famous plays, Othello. Rather than being set in Elizabethan Cyprus however, the action takes place on a giant space ship, and Othello himself is no longer a soldier, but a teenage girl called Vee. We caught up with Malorie to find out more. Chasing the Stars is based on Shakespeare’s play Othello, why did you choose Othello for your inspiration? I always thought that one day I’d do my own version of Othello, because I really loved the story Othello was one of my set texts at A-level, and I loved it. Othello was the first thing I read that actually featured a black character. I didn’t know the story of Othello at all when I started reading it, and I was stunned that he was black. I fell in love with it and I always thought that one day I’d do my own version, because I really loved the story. The ideas of love, lies, loss and sexual jealousy, I thought there was so much there that I could do something with. I’d been sitting on the idea for the last four or five years but this year is the anniversary of Shakespeare’s death, and I thought it would be lovely to get my book out in the same year. Did you always want to set the novel in space?Not at all. When I started, Vee was in a boarding school in northern England. It was completely different. I got to about page 30 and it just wasn’t grabbing me. I kept dreaming about it and Vee kept telling me she was in space, not in a school. To be honest I wasn’t convinced. Shakespeare in space? Really? But once I started on the space route, my fingers just flew across the keyboard. I can’t imagine her anywhere else but space now. I love sci-fi, but I know that not everyone is keen on it. Chasing the Stars is set on a star ship but it’s really about the relationship between Vee and the other characters. I’ve always loved the idea of going into space, but the thing about being on a spaceship is that it’s very claustrophobic, there’s nowhere else to go, that’s why it feels so right to me as a setting for my re-imagining of Othello.  I do think that we live in a society where the gap between those who have and those who have not is getting wider. Why do you think Shakespeare is still inspiring people 400 years later?The simple reason is that he was a genius at expressing human emotions and portraying the things we all have in common: jealously, love, ambition, loss. He got it so right. For example, the gang aspect of Romeo and Juliet, any teenager could relate to those themes, loving someone you’re not supposed to love. Revenge and retribution in Hamlet, ambition in Macbeth. They all lend themselves to so many interpretations. I wouldn’t rule out doing more modern re-tellings in the future.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Malorie: I wouldn’t be sitting here now if it wasn’t for local libraries when I was growing up. We couldn’t afford fiction books, we had non-fiction books but my dad thought fiction was a waste of time, so I spent my life in the local library. And now they’re being closed left, right and centre. It breaks my heart. Photograph: Nick Cunard/Rex FeaturesGiven the novel’s inspiration, a lot of people might expect race to play a key role in the novel, but it doesn’t. Why did you decide to move away from that?I wanted to explore class rather than race this time. I set it in 2164, which is the 600th anniversary of Shakespeare’s birth, and I thought about whether there would still be the same preoccupations with race. I would hope not. But I think there will definitely still be a class problem. The haves and the have nots. In Chasing the Stars, the “have nots” are called “drones”, and they are treated as almost sub-human, deserving their misfortune for being lazy or stupid. It’s a similar rhetoric when people say that people are only on benefits because they don’t want anything else. That really gets to me. This isn’t a prediction of how I think things will end up, but I do think that we live in a society where the gap between those who have and those who have not is getting wider. Now that libraries and other services are closing, if you don’t have the resources it will be harder to “move up” the social mobility ladder. I wouldn’t be sitting here now if it wasn’t for local libraries when I was growing up. We couldn’t afford fiction books, we had non-fiction books but my dad thought fiction was a waste of time, so I spent my life in the local library. And now they’re being closed left, right and centre. It breaks my heart.Top 10 best Shakespearean insults – to celebrate the bard's birthday Do you often get your inspiration from things you see as injustices?I definitely made the decision to include the refugee aspect in Chasing the Stars because of that. We’re very lucky in this country that we don’t have people out trying to kill us or our own government dropping bombs on us. Sometimes it’s difficult to put yourself in someone else’s shoes, but isn’t that part of what fiction can do? It encourages you to help empathise with someone else’s view.Do you think some of your own morality came from the books you read?Reading books allowed me to see the world through someone else’s eyes. But I didn’t see myself reflected in what I was reading at all. I’d see the world of white, middle class eyes, and that was not my world. There’s a much broader variety now but there’s still room to do better. There’s scope to get more variety out there and that’s why I believe in reading as many kinds as books as possible, to really see other points of view. I talked about this a lot when I was children’s laureate, but our teenage boys need to read books just as much as girls because it gives you an emotional vocabulary. It gives you the tools to express yourself in a constructive way, rather than a destructive one. I don’t believe that after a certain age books can’t be illustrated. Illustrations can lend so much to a book Was that partly why you had the graphic novel of Noughts and Crosses, to appeal to boys?Not just boys, everyone. I don’t just think that graphic novels are for boys either. I read V for Vendetta and Watchmen when I was very young and loved them. I think that anything that encourages all our children to read is great, whether it’s graphic novels, comics, illustrated novels. I don’t believe that after a certain age books can’t be illustrated. Illustrations can lend so much to a book.Chasing the Stars by Malorie Blackman - review Do you think younger children could read the book?There is sex in it and it’s a story about sexual jealousy, Vee and Nathan are married. Would I give it to a 10 year-old…? No. It’s definitely meant for teenagers.And finally, is this the last we’ll see of this universe?Well, I haven’t even told my editor this, but yes. It is going to continue.Malorie Blackman’s Chasing the Stars is out on 21 April 2016. You can order a copy from the Guardian bookshop.