Stefan Kalmár, an art world insider described as a “true innovator”, has been appointed director of the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London.Kalmár comes to the ICA from Artists Space in New York, which he has run since 2009. His appointment is the latest move in a musical chairs of contemporary art curators. He succeeds Gregor Muir, who will join Tate as director of collection, international art. Muir, in turn, succeeds Frances Morris, who is now director of Tate Modern.The artist Liam Gillick welcomed the appointment of an art world radical. “Stefan Kalmár has always demonstrated an unerring commitment to cultural expression in its most radical forms. He stands next to artists and thinkers, fighting for spaces of action, articulation and difference,” he said.Kalmár said he was honoured to be joining the ICA, which is celebrating its 70th anniversary this year.“There really is no other organisation like the ICA – indeed it is the birthplace of all ICAs,” he said. “Historically, the ICA has always critically reflected on the role that contemporary art and culture play within the larger socioeconomic conditions of their times.“Facing today’s complex local and global challenges, the ICA’s outspoken voice is needed more than ever, and by placing artists and ideas at the heart of all our programming decisions, I believe the ICA has all the tools to be that unique, utopian model – simply one of the most progressive organisations for the 21st century.”Kalmár, who was a Turner prize judge in 2014, has been in charge of Artists Space in Lower Manhattan since 2009. Before that he was the director of Kunstverein München (2004-09), the director of the Institute of Visual Culture in Cambridge (2000-04) and the artistic director at Cubitt Gallery in London (1997-99).Alison Myners, the chair of the ICA council, said she was delighted to welcome Kalmár as director. “Stefan has had an extraordinary impact in the cultural world through his time in London, Germany and New York. “His longstanding relationships with artists and art audiences alike, outstanding exhibition programming and his passion for addressing social issues will bring a wealth of excitement, energy and vitality to the ICA. He is a true innovator.”He takes over an organisation in good health, stabilised and reinvigorated by Muir, who took over in 2011. The ICA, based on the Mall in London, had been going through turmoil with financial problems so bad that, at one point, it was threatened with closure.