When Amanda Boorman adopted Jazz, then aged five, social workers told her to avoid the town in which her child’s birth parents lived. “The impression I had was that they were quite scary and potentially quite dangerous,” she said.But Boorman, a trained social worker who founded the Open Nest, a charity that supports adoptive families, felt that she had not been told the full story. She decided to visit them.“I wanted to know their story and how things came about, in order to tell the person who was going to be my child about why they had been adopted.”Three years later she made the decision to reintroduce Jazz to them. “I knew the risks were disturbing Jazz further – there were no two ways about it, the parenting wasn’t good. I didn’t have a romanticised idea of it. But I wanted to be a bridge between the past and the future.“A four-year-old does know things, more than people give them credit for. She did love her parents. I felt that we’d stolen her as well. A lot of her disturbance I felt was due to being completely removed from the people she’d been sleeping in the same room as for the first four years of her life.”Most adopted children do not have face-to-face contact with birth relatives. But a major new resource – underpinned by an extensive academic study and contributions from social workers and families across the country – could change the approach of adoption agencies and mean more people follow in Boorman’s footsteps.The launch of the Contact after Adoption website, a partnership between the University of East Anglia and Research in Practice, follows recent comments by senior judge Lord Justice McFarlane, who questioned the right of adoptive parents to veto contact.Elsbeth Neil, director of research at the UEA’s school of social work, whose work underpins the new website, says face-to-face contact should be considered in more adoption cases.“For 20 years or so, people have had similar attitudes towards contact – ‘yes it’s a good idea, but let’s keep it very small, and if it stops after a year or two, so what? Maybe that’s a good thing.’ There’s a lot of ambivalence about contact, because adoption was seen as a clean break and birth families as a bad influence. It’s hard to shift those attitudes.“People generally accept the need for some form of contact but what they tend to set up is formulaic: it’s a letter once a year, it may or may not involve photographs – increasingly people are worried about exchanging photographs because of them circulating on social media.”We need to rethink adoption in the social media age, says senior judge There’s a perception that sending letters is easier than face-to-face meetings, Neil said, but the opposite can be the case. “If you imagine what it’s like to write a letter once a year to someone you’ve possibly never met about such an intensely emotional thing. We followed up these families for 18 years and the majority of the letters didn’t last for more than a year or two because I think it’s too difficult to write that sort of letter. Face-to-face contact is more immediate and meaningful, particularly to the children.”Neil – who followed a group of adopted children until they reached age 18 to monitor their experience of birth family contact – said arrangements needed to be based on the child’s need and reviewed over time as families and their children develop. Her research found that contact with birth relatives did not affect a child’s overall development, though there were indications that it contributed to young people having a more cohesive sense of identity. They were more likely to be positive about contact when it was predictable and had been kept up over the years. John Simmonds, director of policy, research and development at the CoramBAAF adoption and fostering academy, which supports social care professionals, said children need more individualised support, especially given that many are adopted from the care system and have experienced abuse or neglect.“These are complex issues. How do you deal with these questions of curiosity and need to know, and right to know, on one hand, with the fact that what you’re also dealing with is really often quite extreme circumstances where children have experienced physical abuse, emotional abuse or sexual abuse. How do you explain to a child that ‘you were removed because you were abused by your parents or sexually abused by your parents?’”Hugh Thornberry, chief executive of Adoption UK, said agencies were moving away from the idea that adoption was something that had “an impermeable seal around it”.He said that the risks of direct contact, such as disrupting a placement or retraumatising a child, could be carefully managed by professionals and families. “A more open approach to adoption can avoid another risk, which is that lots of children can build up an idealised version of their birth family despite what might be said to them. Sometimes that can be reinforced by parents contacting them on social media in an unsolicited way.”But compelling adoptive parents to maintain face-to-face contact – a suggestion raised by Justice McFarlane – is unlikely to be helpful, says Neil. “Contact is only really beneficial to children when everyone who is involved is doing it willingly and with an open heart. We need to do more to help adoptive parents think through the potential benefits of contact for their child, as well as assessing risks and difficulties. But we also need to do more to help them think through the potential difficulties if they refuse reasonable requests to promote contact.”For Amanda Boorman, face-to-face contact gave Jazz the chance to understand the complex reasons why her birth mother wasn’t able to care for her – something she is unlikely to have gained from an annual newsletter. “Before she thought she was rubbish, that she’d been thrown away, that she’d probably been naughty. That stopped after she met them, her self-esteem went up massively. Just thinking that you’re the product of a bad place is not a healthy thing.”