For Jonna Saarinen, Nordic design isn’t all about sophisticated pale timbers and white walls as far as the eye can see. What lingered in her mind from her Finnish childhood is a brighter, bolder, more whimsical look. “Pattern is the fun side of Finnish design,” she says. “I thrive on a style that’s full of colour.”With Marimekko cushions, vintage Swedish wallpapers and Finlayson fabrics – plus a generous dash of Moomin-abilia – it’s a look that’s alive and well in her south London home, and also informs her work as a textile and surface designer.This imaginative world of nursery colours and abundant flora is, says Jonna, rooted in Finland’s national identity. “It stems from long, dark winters. Filling your home with bright design and touches of fun is a way to lift the spirits.” That typical folksy style of stylised flowers, woodland creatures and birds is as nostalgic and reassuring as a bedtime story. But as any reader of Tove Jansson’s Moomin books knows, a hint of darker worries always hovers at the edge of the forest.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lift the spirits: colourful kitchen shelves. Photograph: James BalstonAll this seems worlds away from the streets of Norwood in southeast London, yet Janna’s whimsical motifs are remarkably apt for this 20s house, which she shares with her fiancée David Wynd, a musician. With quirky touches, such as an old-fashioned walk-in larder, skinny bedroom fireplaces set into corners and high panelled doors that are all slightly different sizes, this house already had a cottagey, homespun feel. It was built in 1926 by a local builder: “He did this one then built a mirror image of it next door with more decorative plasterwork. Then he sold this house and moved into the fancier one.”Owned by the same family ever since, it had been boarded up for three years when Jonna and David bought it. “Hence we could afford it,” says Jonna. There was no heating and all the windowpanes were broken, but there were fireplaces in every room and it had a lovely atmosphere.“This house feels like it was made by hand, at a gradual, human pace,” she says. For example, all the doorknobs are different. “The builder put in the prettiest ones at the front of the house; they get less special at the back. You can almost imagine him making decisions as he went along.” The couple also uncovered later layers of the house’s building history. “We discovered a newspaper from the 50s and a forgotten sandwich – in a paper bag from a Streatham bakery – under the floorboards. Someone missed their lunch that day.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Quirky touches: an array of Marimekko cushions in the living room. Photograph: James BalstonFor the decor, Jonna and David delved into the archives of Swedish designhouse Svenskt Tenn for wallpaper, buying vintage rolls from the 60s as well the more recent reissues of Josef Frank’s patterns. “We had to hang the old ones really carefully,” she says. “They were so fragile that some parts more or less melted when we added paste.” The Moomin and Elefant motif bed covers are by Finnish household name Finlayson, while a traditional Ryijy woven wall hanging on the landing was made by Jonna’s great aunt in 1952.The heavier pieces of 30s and 40s furniture also belonged to her great aunt, making for a “slightly crazy” combination downstairs. Yet the heaviness of the dark wood is lightened by Jonna’s way with prints, plus contemporary pops of colour: egg-yolk yellow lamps from Habitat and a tomato-red Smeg fridge. An old favourite is Jonna’s Ball chair by Eero Aarnio. “He’s in a bit of a state, battered and scratched because he’s a job to get through any British doorway,” she says. “But he’s a fellow Finn, so I’m very attached to him.”While we’re talking Finnish design classics: is Jonna related to Eero Saarinen, the legendary neo-futuristic architect and industrial designer? “Because I work part-time at the Royal College of Art I get asked that about once a week,” she smiles. “Sadly not – but I’m hoping to make a name for myself on a smaller scale.”jonnasaarinen.co.uk