It was billed as the “everyday story of country folk” but a storyline on Radio 4’s The Archers could end in murder, the programme’s editor has revealed.Sean O’Connor hinted that domestic abuser Rob Titchener, centre of one of the long-running show’s most controversial plots, could end up murdering his wife Helen.O’Connor, who is about to leave the soap for the typically grittier pastures of BBC1’s EastEnders, said the show was not about “chocolate box storylines” and told listeners to Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour that Rob might be “capable of murder”.How Archers abuse story has divided fans of its green and pleasant land The revelation drew an angry response from many Archers fans, which Woman’s Hour presenter Jane Garvey described as the programme’s biggest ever reaction on Twitter. “A lot of people are actually saying, ‘I don’t want The Archers to be like EastEnders,’” she said.It would be the first murder to feature in the Archers’ 65-year history. Two years ago the BBC’s director of radio Helen Boaden told how she had banned a proposed murder plot on the grounds that it was too far-fetched. “Murders in country villages by people you have never met are unbelievably rare. And this felt so far-fetched that I banned it – to the great chagrin of the then editor,” said Boaden, who is still the BBC’s radio chief.But O’Connor, speaking to Woman’s Hour on Tuesday, said: “The Archers is not a chocolate box storyline set in the 1950s. We’ve been doing hard-hitting storylines since the early times of the show.” Asked if Titchener was capable of murder, O’Connor said: “Maybe he is, yes, maybe he is capable of murder.”One of the most toxic storylines in the Archers for decades, the story of Helen’s emotional and physical abuse at the hands of her husband has been building for two years and has had a mixed reception among its listeners. O’Connor said: “It’s absolutely the sort of thing that The Archers should be doing. It’s going to take a long time. I can’t offer you any easy resolution.”One listener was so moved by Helen’s plight that he set up a JustGiving page asking concerned listeners to donate money for Refuge. So far, it has raised nearly £80,000. O’Connor said it was the biggest single donation given to Refuge in its 35-year history and “shows the democracy of the new media age - they decided it’s an important story that needs dealing with, it’s amazing and humbling”.Sandra Horley, chief executive of Refuge, told Woman’s Hour: “Domestic abuse isn’t a working class issue, it’s a bit snooty to say we don’t want The Archers to become like EastEnders. There is this feeling that this sort of thing shouldn’t be happening in The Archers but it happens in real life. Thousands and thousands of women from all classes, all racs, all backgrounds, experience domestic violence.“What’s so fantastic about The Archers is that it’s shining a light on a really important social problem and bringing it in to our living rooms.”Louiza Patikas, the actor who plays Helen, told the programme: “Anyone could be vulnerable to a man like Rob. I did lots of research, the most valuable thing was to sit around and talk to a survivor of similar abuse. It was incredibly difficult and upsetting to listen to – I do understand how the audience are feeling. I hope I’m doing it as truthfully and faithfully as possible. I don’t struggle to leave it behind, but I am thinking about it a lot at home.”