There is a moment in Trapped, the celebrated documentary about anti-abortion laws sweeping states like Texas, when a clinic is forced to turn away a 13-year-old rape victim, who is “sentenced to motherhood”, a staffer notes while welling up. It’s a moment that reminds the viewer that abortion in the United States – so often framed as just a policy issue or moral debate – is about real people’s lives, lives that are increasingly damaged by arcane and arbitrary laws created to keep women from exercising their right to end a pregnancy.Trapped review: timely abortion documentary makes a compelling case Trapped follows several clinics, clinic workers and abortion providers through their attempts to try to comply – and sometimes being unable to comply – with Trap laws, Targeted Regulation of Abortion Providers. The laws, which range from needlessly forcing clinics to morph themselves into mini-hospitals, or demanding that abortion providers have admitting privileges at hospitals, are presented by anti-choice lawmakers as having women’s health and wellbeing in mind. What’s closer to the truth, though – and what Trapped so perfectly captures – is that the laws are specifically crafted to shut down clinics.“It’s such an effective strategy, it’s kind of brilliant,” film-maker Dawn Porter says.“You say these laws are for health and safety, and the laws are written in such a way to make them sound reasonable,” she says. Indeed, for those who aren’t familiar with the details of anti-abortion policy, requiring that doctors have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals seems like a good idea on the surface. But as abortion provider Willie Parker, whom the film follows, explains, abortion is such a safe procedure that he would never be able to admit enough patients to a hospital to be able to keep the privileges legislators are requiring.The same goes for mandates that clinics turn themselves into ambulatory centers – abortion is one of the most common and safe medical procedures in the country; the law exists solely to drain abortion providers of their resources and make it impossible for them to practice.Trapped makes no bones about depicting the harm these laws are doing in states like Texas, whose Trap law HB2 is now being argued before the supreme court. Porter, though, is not pleased when people call Trapped an “advocacy documentary”. “There’s a false equivalency,” Porter tells me.“This twisted effort to say that both sides deserve equal time is absurd. I haven’t seen one suggestion or bit of evidence that Trap laws have helped the safety of any woman, not one. On the other side, we know that the clinics are closing and that people are trying to self-abort.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Trapped trailer.In fact, one study showed that somewhere between 100,00 and 240,000 women in Texas have attempted to end their own pregnancies, numbers likely to increase should the clinics in the state continue to close. Since HB2 took effect in 2014, more than half of the state’s clinics have shut down, and another study shows that the number of doctors who perform abortions has gone down 42% thanks to the law. This same study showed how some doctors were denied admitting privileges in the state specifically because of their affiliation with an abortion clinic or because they were required to have a minimum amount of hospital-based surgeries – again, an impossible requirement for a provider because of how safe abortion is.That’s another reason that Trapped is such an important film. In a culture that depicts abortion providers as monsters “selling baby parts”, the documentary humanizes providers, who put their lives on the line to care for women’s health.“Anti-choice folks have done a very good job of demonizing providers,” Porter says, noting how dangerous it is for those who perform abortions to do their job, and that some doctors have to look under their cars every day for bombs. “What good is the right if you have no one to provide the abortion care itself,” she says.That may be in part why the film is resonating so much with audiences. Porter notes that while she expected people to be angry when watching the film, she couldn’t have prepared herself for the outpouring of emotions. At every screening, she says, there are people who are weeping uncontrollably. “One in three women will have an abortion,” she says, “and I think a lot of people are reliving what it felt like, and how scary it is to think about how your whole life could be different – and how out of control it could be.”And with Whole Woman’s Health being before the supreme court, the timing for Trapped couldn’t be better. As the court considers the constitutionality of HB2 – and as the female justices seem to be holding the state’s feet to the fire – the country will look to what happens in Texas as a sign of things to come. Will states continue to implement these laws unchecked?To Porter, this is what she calls a civil rights struggle. “If you are pro-choice, you can’t be silent,” she says. “You’re joining people who would literally disenfranchise people or sentence people to parenthood and take over their bodies.”That’s why she’s excited that Trapped will continue its theatrical run and will premiere on PBS Independent Lens on 20 June – Porter wants to keep the issue in the public eye. And thanks to her film, it’s going to be hard to look away.