Northern Stage’s artistic director, Lorne Campbell, compares running a regional theatre to having an 8ft bed and a 6ft duvet that he’s constantly trying to stretch whichever way he can. The gaps between what theatres can do, what they would like to do and what they feel they must do are increasingly big. Of course, if you can collaborate with others it might make things easier. But the big question is who do you collaborate with and on what terms? That gets to the heart of an increasing awareness around diversity of all kinds in the theatre and the inequalities that persist. It’s particularly urgent for a theatre such as Northern Stage, which has always seen its role as not just supporting itself but also helping artists and companies in the region to develop their full potential.Why radical kindness is the key to artistic development Back in 2001 when the Boyden report led to a significant injection of cash into theatre, at a time when regional theatre was on its knees, one of the ideas was that there should be more co-production to help spread the new money around. But of course what mostly happened was that those with the cash tended to co-produce with others who also had the cash. Effectively it meant that the same pool of haves continued to exclude the have-nots. To a large extent that continues today and that’s partly because pooling the resources of two or three big producing houses to create something together that they could not do alone is attractive. But it’s also partly because those running the big theatres all know each other and meet regularly. As they were getting to where they are now, their careers often intersected. The risks involved in co-production or collaboration seem smaller when you know your partners well, and have probably worked with them in the past, compared with collaborating or co-producing with a company less known to you.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lorne Campbell, artistic director of Northern Stage. Photograph: Topher McGrillisThere are benefits to this more organic way of working. But there are significant downsides too because it can be a club, one that it is difficult for others to gain access on equal terms. One of the issues raised at the recent Tonic conference on gender disparity in the arts, at which Campbell was one of the speakers, was that many arts organisations work in an organic way and do not operate within conventional employment structures. And it is visibility, rather than ability, that is sometimes the reason why one person or company becomes a collaborator or gets a job on a particular production. It favours those who are good at getting themselves on the radar, which requires confidence which often comes with particular backgrounds, and those who have more traditional career trajectories.One of the things that Campbell discovered through taking part in Tonic’s Advance programme was that in its relationship with emerging artists and companies there was often a difference in perception about what the relationship was, how it should work and who was bringing what to the table and why.  It is visibility, rather than ability, that is sometimes the reason why one person or company becomes a collaborator One of the obvious things is about being transparent regarding what is on offer and how that relationship may develop. Realistically a small not regularly funded company from the region may never be going to be a co-producing partner for Northern Stage but that doesn’t mean that the two can’t have a mutually beneficial relationship, and one that also benefits the region. Most relationships between bigger organisations and smaller ones begin with the big fish initially offering rehearsal space, then maybe some help in applying for funds and possibility then further opportunities. Northern Stage has been significant in helping companies show work in Edinburgh or offering directing or other gigs. But inevitably there is often a strong strain of paternalism that creeps into such relationships and with it the misplaced idea that the big are doing the small some kind of favour. The relationship often also ends as the theatre starts supporting the next lot of emerging companies on the conveyor belt. How can we keep theatre wages fair? Campbell believes that the relationship can become more useful and more beneficial if everybody sits down together and looks at where the interests of both organisations align and how by working together they can deliver the strategic objectives that benefit the whole region and its theatre ecology. That might mean being more honest and possibly dashing some hopes at the start that somewhere down the line the relationship might lead to a full-scale main-house co-production (a scale that in any case many process-led young companies have very little interest in working towards). But it also means creating real partnerships in which both the theatre and the company are working together as equals to deliver projects.Northern Stage is not alone in thinking this way, but it’s a subtle yet significantly different way of thinking about artist development. Instead of simply seeing artist development as one of a long list of things that any modern funded theatre should be doing, it’s about seeing it as a way of hooking up with those who can add greater value in delivering jointly conceived projects. That can provide more opportunities, greater agency for the companies involved, and more equitable and sustainable long-term relationships.