Amazing Spaces Shed of the Year8pm, Channel 4Celebrating the “splendour of all things shed”, George Clarke and cohorts head off to visit outbuildings shortlisted for Shed of the Year. They begin with the Unique and Historic categories, with the former particularly fun, what with it featuring a rotating room and a road-legal “fastest shed in the world”. In the Historic category, the restored hut where Dylan Thomas wrote much great work is especially evocative. “Sheddie” heaven. Jonathan WrightCelebrity First Dates9pm, Channel 4Celebrities plus First Dates equals laughter, tears and probably a Bafta nomination. Even so, this has an awkwardness that the everyman version does not, including as it does Wikipedia-ing the person in front of you or – as witnessed last week – ringing your mates for a quick humblebrag. This week, weather presenter Sian Lloyd and Corrie’s Daniel Brocklebank are among the well-known faces giving it a go nonetheless. Hannah J DaviesX: The Generation That Changed the World National Geographic, 9pmPeople born in the 60s and 70s don’t get enough press these days; it’s all boomers cashing in and millennials paying the price. A serviceable US nostalgia show - flippantly narrated by Christian Slater, but offering decent talking heads such as Kevin Smith and Courtney Love – restores balance. Events such as Vietnam and Watergate show how a mistrust of marketing and government fuelled alternative culture. Jack SealeWynonna Earp 9pm, SpikeThis new western horror show stars Melanie Scrofano as the great-great-granddaughter of legendary sheriff Wyatt. Clearly aiming for the gap left by Buffy, and with a whiff of True Blood about it too, there are demons plaguing the small town of Purgatory, both real and those in Wynonna’s past. It doesn’t take itself too seriously, but still the mash-up of wild west tropes and the supernatural doesn’t make for particularly comfortable bedfellows. Ben ArnoldFriday Night Dinner 10pm, Channel 4It’s an auspicious night at the Goodmans’: Martin’s annual oiling of the hinges is here, marking a decade of squeak-free doors. Unfortunately, his zeal results in disaster when the slimy stuff finds its way on to Mum’s pristine carpet, prompting a guest appearance from John Sessions as a rug restorer, and a hit to Martin’s wallet. If that wasn’t enough action for one Friday, meddlesome neighbour Jim decides to get a cat. Mark Gibbings-JonesBBC Proms 2016: David Bowie10.15pm, BBC4How to turn a David Bowie tribute from an evening of cover versions into something better? The key seems to be the Berlin collective Stargaze, a young group of post-jazz players who will be the backdrop against which a sequence of guest singers (including Marc Almond and John Cale) will perform Bowie classics. Earlier (7.30pm), veteran maestro Bernard Haitink conducts Mahler’s Third Symphony. John RobinsonArtsnight: Lynn Barber Meets John Lydon 11pm, BBC2 Lynn Barber has won the British press awards’ interviewer of the year gong six times during the course of her career, while John Lydon is one of the most relentlessly opinionated men on the planet. So it’s hard to see how this head-to-head encounter can fail. Lydon continues to offer up both restless post-punk and pungent opinions at an impressive rate – tonight he’ll be reflecting on 40 years of music, writing and general troublemaking. Phil HarrisonFilm choiceFerris Bueller’s Day Off (6.55pm, Film4) “Life moves pretty fast …” All the more reason to stop and look again at John Hughes’s deceptively sophisticated comedy of high-school truancy. Paul HowlettTomboy (Céline Sciamma, 2011) 12.35am, BBC2When 10-year-old Laure (Zoé Héran) and her family move to an apartment block, she finds it easier to cope with her new life by pretending to be a boy, Michael. This brings friendship with the local lads, and with the 10-year-old Lisa. As the deception proceeds through a long, hot summer you just know something’s got to give in this charming, sensitive and touching tale. PHLive sportRacing: Glorious Goodwood Day four of the flat racing event and it’s the big one: the King George Stakes runs at 3.45pm. 1.35pm, Channel 4Tennis: The Rogers Cup This ATP event from Toronto reaches the quarter-finals. 4pm, Sky Sports 1Golf: USPGA Championship More from New Jersey and the major won last year by Australia’s Jason Day. 7pm, Sky Sports 4