It can be hard work being a fan of the Clarkson-May-Hammond iteration of Top Gear at the Guardian. You might as well admit you enjoy livening up a country walk by stamping on the heads of bunnies, or open a meeting by suggesting maybe Donald Trump’s got a point about that wall. One’s liberal credentials are ripped to shreds by confessing to loving it, but it’s a hard habit to break.The Johannesburg-based second episode of their Amazon Prime show The Grand Tour, though, was a mixed bag. After the first episode, the big bang of a launch with an opening sequence alone reputed to have cost £3m, this was the real test: the chance to see whether they could keep up their automotive priapism. And, let’s be frank, latter series of Top Gear tended to start well before fading away, as if the good ideas were burned off like the last fuel in a near-empty tank. So how did it fare?The Grand Tour review – Clarkson and co leave the BBC in their dust Too much fillerTop Gear was sometimes obviously filling time: short sequences that were neither informative nor funny would be dropped in, with the pretence that they were demonstrating something remarkable that would fascinate us all. They’re back in force on The Grand Tour – episode two offered a brief interview with a South African chap who had built his own replica of a Le Mans-winning Mercedes race car. It took him a year and a half and his wife didn’t mind. This, truly, was the stuff of a slow day in the local radio station newsroom. Equally needless was James May being sent to watch spinning – people doing doughnuts in souped-up cars, while hanging out of the windows. It was, at heart, a glorified YouTube clip.The local flavour was better judged      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In Johannesburg, there were jokes about carjacking – and a running gag about President Jacob Zuma’s inability to read out long numbers. Photograph: Amazon Prime VideoLast week, Clarkson baffled the US audience in the studio-tent with a joke about Carol Vorderman – it seems neither her Countdown fame nor her status as the only person to win Rear of the Year twice have permeated the American consciousness. This time he kept the references local, with a running gag about President Jacob Zuma’s inability to read out long numbers, his taste for state-funded luxury goods, and a segment where the trio dwelt on carjacking rates in South Africa. “How did you have time to come here?” Hammond asked the audience, on being told there were 35 carjackings a day. It wasn’t exactly funny, but at least it wasn’t met by silence like the Vorderman gag.They’re too in thrall to the military      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like a show whose central purpose is to imagine what goes on inside the head of a 13-year-old boy. Photograph: Ellis O'Brien/AmazonThe first episode showed a brief preview of the upcoming series, featuring a large amount of military hardware. The centrepiece of the second was a sequence in which the three presenters tried to replicate a training exercise used by Jordanian special forces. It’s easy enough to see why a show whose central purpose is to imagine what goes on inside the head of a 13-year-old boy (without the sex. Very much without the sex) then magnify it to the point of absurdity might keep returning to the armed forces. But for those who like to think they’ve moved beyond 13, the fetishisation of armed forces can get a bit wearing. In 2009, the UK Ministry of Defence admitted military personnel had spent the equivalent of 141 days working on Top Gear stunts. The only difference this time is that other countries’ forces are being co-opted. Clarkson being shot with blanks appears to have become producer Andy Wilman’s version of the custard pie in the face, and it’s just as tiresome.Big budgets can mean bloat      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The special forces sequence dragged on and on and on. Photograph: Amazon PrimeThe special forces sequence was the centrepiece, and pretty much every other piece, too – it dragged on and on and on. The central conceit was lifted from the movie Edge of Tomorrow, though you wouldn’t necessarily know that – when Clarkson suggested they start again each time they got shot, like in that Tom Cruise film, the others responded by asking if he meant Cocktail or Rain Man. And seeing James May get shot as he ran to get in a Renault, set up the same way each time, became boring long before the producers thought it did. Worse, it was too heavily and obviously scripted. Top Gear’s best stunts worked because, although the viewer knew such absurdity must have been set up, the trio managed to be natural about it; the best bits were where their pleasure in each others’ misfortune – or irritation at that pleasure – was clearly genuine. May’s inhumanity to man, as it were. Take away the spontaneity, and you’re left with mannered TV presenters pretending to be actors. It feels as though there is too much at stake – in money and reputation – for the Pooterish ridiculousness of Top Gear’s old best bits. You suspect there will be nothing so cheap as trying to convert an old Triumph into a yacht this time around. More’s the pity: Clarkson, May and Hammond work best when they’re being Little England (emphasis very much on the little) rather than trying to be Great Britain.But they’re still funnyReader, I laughed. I didn’t weep with laughter, as I often did at Top Gear’s greatest flights of fancy, but I did laugh. I laughed as Clarkson’s trousers fell down under the weight of grenades as he tried to abseil out of a helicopter. I laughed when he had to put on his reading glasses to follow the instructions on a stun grenade. I laughed when, after they stormed a hijacked aeroplane, May responded to Clarkson’s inquiry as to whether all the terrorists were dead at the back of the plane by saying, “Everybody’s dead back there.” So, sluggish and scripted – but still with moments that sparkle.