There is a US physicist named Hugh Everett III who introduced the “Many Worlds Interpretation”, a quantum mechanics theory which states that our universe is not a single, linear timeline but simply one universe in an immense – perhaps even infinite – number of universes. All parallel and alternative pasts and futures exist; each possible outcome of every single action we have ever taken unfolds into reality. You’ll be grateful to know, however, that this piece is not about physics! It’s more about applying this theory to the great world of literature. Novels are seen as a temporary vacation from the flow of reality; for a moment or two, just like in Everett’s theory, we truly belong in another universe in which the laws of space and time are bent. Hogwarts suddenly looms on the horizon, Kilgore Trout just walked into a bar and the newspapers are desperate to write about Gatsby’s death. It is in precisely this way that a dangerous book can situate us in an alternate dimension of space and time. How can a book be dangerous?, you might scoff. Carbon paper, printed words, leather bindings... Books can’t give you bruises or scars or break up with you or not message you back on Facebook. It is easy to assume, therefore, that the most dangerous books would be so because of the brutality of their depictions of their subjects; murder, violence, wars, disease. Best quotes from censored or banned 'dangerous books' But to my mind, a dangerous book is dangerous because of the way it makes us feel. They are completely unputdownable. These books are a little terrifying, a little dramatic and introduce the impossible in a very possible manner. A good way to explain the feeling associated with reading such books is to actually refer back to Everett’s theory. In one universe you will dodge every life-threatening situation: never be hit by a passing thunderstorm, or car, or get stabbed in an alley, or die of old age. In one universe, you are immortal; there are a million beautiful possibilities and a million beautiful lives to lead. That’s the feeling a dangerous book gives you; the feeling of being on the edge of existence, with no danger of tipping over.How they produce such extreme, abundant feelings in us could be by simply creating an imaginary and fictional realm based on our very own reality. It takes our own chaos and, like a small child with a toy, takes it apart and puts it back together again in a new, distinctive and disturbing way. The writer proposes a different way that historical events could have unraveled or a new way for future civilisations to function. They challenge who we all are and what we all believe in, blurring the lines between good and evil – and depicting the literary equivalent of a parallel universe. They provide answers for questions we didn’t even know we were asking. Perhaps it’s why I call them “dangerous” – they’re frightening in the way they present an alternative universe where nothing is different from the way things are now, where our social norms are paralleled, our societies as harsh, our rules as inevitable – all the author does is pose one simple, terrifying question: What if?A perfect example of an author who does this is Suzanne Collins. One of the most defining dystopian writers of this era, Collins published The Hunger Games in 2008. It is a brutal trilogy of books, exploring a dystopian civilisation in which its characters have to fight for the most precious prize of all: survival. Beginning with a brutal, silenced version of the US, driving us through the struggle of Katniss and Peeta, and ending with a revolution, Collins tells us the story of a world that is terrifying and segregated. But her book is dangerous, rather than just dystopian, because it forces us view this world through the eyes of youthful insurgents; people just like us who are also a little terrified, tired and confused but who will also fight and advocate for a better world – one that lasts for years to come. Because The Hunger Games reminds us that our greatest weapons are ourselves and because it does so through a main character, Katniss, who is empowered by a unique sense of strength, a blood-stained dystopia becomes a powerful message to a disenfranchised generation. Banned, burned, or simply life changing: what are the best dangerous books? In 2008, Khaled Hosseini’s The Kite Runner entered the American Literacy Association’s most frequently banned books list at number eight. The most terrifying aspect of Hosseini’s books is their very realistic depiction of ongoing events. The Kite Runner is set primarily in Afghanistan and at a time when the main character’s life is on the verge of change. With stories like this, I can very often forget that there is a before and an after; no matter how imaginary they are, I can’t shake the feeling that a character had a life before I opened the book and will continue to have one in that particular world in which they live after I’ve closed its pages. Hosseini’s stories are laced with that feeling of profound existence. Dangerous books sometimes bring a story to life; Hosseini does the opposite: he brings life to a story, so that it feels like we are the ones being written into the fabric of the narrative. When I was 15, a friend recommended to me one of those dangerous books that touch you indefinitely: The Book Thief by Markus Zusak. The novel is set during the second world war but it never resonates as a history lesson. Written through the unusual voice of Death, Zusak allows us to perceive the war through the eyes of somebody who was at the dying heart of it all. How dangerous it is to remember that we are both the victims and the villains of war; that in a way it was us hiding in the cellar and it was us knocking on the Hubermanns’ door. Zusak writes in an poignant and evocative manner, painting characters so inconceivably intense and vivid; taking mundane daily events – crushes and reading and friendships – and letting them unravel at a point when the whole world is at risk. Life carries on, his book echoes, even when it is savagery wrapped in horror. It reminds us how no matter how overwhelming pain can be, we can emerge on the other side, like Leslie does. Maybe the scars are indefinite and the memories cruelly everlasting but that’s the lesson these books teach us; there will always be life after survival. Part of the process of reading is forming a sense of detachment, distinguishing between ourselves and the characters we read about. Our role is to merely and vicariously observe their existence; perhaps, at most, to empathise with it. But then a character says or does something you would, obsesses over a feeling you know far too well, and suddenly all sense of omnipresence vanishes and you are at the centre of a murder plot or an accident or some other cruel twist of fate. Donna Tartt does this best of all. Why books are small but dangerous One of my all-time favourite writers, Tartt’s novels are not far-fetched stories about untouchable people; her characters are just edited versions of people we are or very easily could be. She depicts the inevitability of violent tragedy when we integrate ourselves into situations and people we don’t really belong to; ardent students (The Secret History), or young, wide-eyed children who don’t understand the tumultuous extent of guilt and loss (The Little Friend), and those of us who are caught up in the demonic hands of fate – the simple idea of ‘wrong place, wrong time’ (The Goldfinch). And whilst it is true that if we were Tartt’s protagonists – Richard Pappin who aids in the murder of a friend; Harriet Dufresenes who loses her brother, letting revenge become all that she is; Theodore Decker who survives a terrorist bomb that robs him of his mother and alters his life – we might not be so polished and edited, there is always the lingering question that cascades into our minds: how would we behave? Are we as moral and scrupulous as wish we to be? Tartt has the ability to make every single one of her readers question their motives, their honour and their righteousness. It’s what makes such novels so dangerous; suddenly we’re not looking at a flawed, alternative world any more, but a masterpiece we ruined ourselves.To end this I want to finish with a line, written in Ancient Greek, that I discovered in The Secret History: Khalepa ta kala, which translates to “Beauty is harsh”. Is it ok to be intoxicated by stories that tell of lies we have not told, fights we would not have, monsters we won’t face, murders we would not commit and accidents we probably won’t have? To admire universes that exist solely in our minds? Dangerous novels give us that frightening feeling of being so close to the extraordinary and impossible; in them life is not so easily labelled and established. In reality, beauty is simply beauty. And terror is simply terror. Dangerous novels are not so reductionist; things are not so simple. And suddenly, before our our very own eyes, what is harsh can so easily become beautiful. Khalepa ta kala.Is there a books topic you want to write about? Join the Guardian children’s books site and you could do just that.