There are no signs in the village, no arrows pointing the way. A footpath off the high street squeezes between two houses, crosses a stream, runs into open fields and there, in the green hillocks far away, we see the earthwork remains of Cainhoe Castle.A knight of William the Conqueror’s victorious army was given a third of the county, and chose to throw up a motte and three baileys here on the crest of a low ridge some time in the late 11th century. In the grassy, undulating foothills, anyone can play archaeologist among the inexplicable banks, troughs and wannabe ditches. The hollow stump of an ancient tree, looking like an extinct volcano, sits in a depressed bowl, surrounded by a garden of nettles.Natural forces have attacked the slopes of the motte and the ditches that surrounded the old baileys. Rabbits have raked out their burrows in the ochre-coloured soil, and bumblebees drift in and out of the holes, seeking burrows within burrows to make their nests. Oak trees grew beyond maturity on the sides of the motte itself. One toppled over decades ago, its great root plate tearing a chunk out of the hillside as it fell. The stripped and fissured trunk is beyond usable timber – its texture reminds me of a long-neglected park bench.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A toppled oak on Cainhoe Castle motte. Photograph: Sarah NiemannHawthorn scrub has crept up towards the summit where the castle keep once stood. A stiff climb between the gnarled, lichen-encrusted bushes brings me to the top. It is surprisingly small. You could fit only a modest, unquestionably detached, house here, and, since the castle never graduated from wood to stone, there is nothing left of the building.The words “commanding view” have a special meaning here: Nigel d’Aubigny owned everything he could see from this position of dominance. But for all the invader’s heightened sense of superiority, he could not conquer the skies. Two buzzards soar overhead, as they would have done 900 years ago, circling the motte as if with lofty disdain. No wonder the Norman rulers claimed and tamed birds of prey, put them on their wrists and sent them into the air to do their bidding. 