I was browsing through the programme of an international festival recently. The visuals were striking and enticing but after reading the descriptions of some of the shows I still had absolutely no idea what they might be like – or what they were about. If that’s problematic for a critic with a lifetime of theatre-going behind her, what’s it like for someone thinking about going to the theatre for the first time? Read what you’ve written out loud to yourself. If it sounds pompous, it probably is. Why do creative people, who are highly skilled in communicating to an audience, suddenly become unintelligible when talking or writing about their own shows? That was one of the many issues raised in Bristol earlier this month at Devoted and Disgruntled, the brilliant annual event for those working in theatre – and anyone who ever goes.Maybe, when talking about their own shows, people feel obliged to justify what they are doing by making it sound more complicated than it really is in order to give it weight. Could it be that often the brochure copy has gone to press long before the show is made? Or might it be that we all easily fall into jargon, talking about “the work” (no member of an audience ever talks about ‘the work’ – they talk about a show or a play) or indeed, “the piece”.One person at Devoted and Disgruntled said her way of getting around this problem was to pass everything she wrote about her own shows to her sister, a non-theatregoer who pounces on any obfuscating phrase and the slightest trace of jargon. (“Piece? What is this piece? Cake? Cheese?”) Apparently it’s not just humbling, but ensures that you get accessible and inviting blurbs about the show. I reckon that another way is to read what you’ve written out loud to yourself. If it sounds pompous, it probably is.Plan your week’s theatre: top tickets Theatre reviews can be equally off-putting. I try not to use language that I wouldn’t use when talking with someone about a show. One of the great things about the rise of theatre club sessions at some venues is that they invite discussions in which everyone’s observations and feelings are valid and can be expressed without anyone from the production present. The more formal post-show discussions can be useful, but they can also be intimidating. It’s a rare member of the audience who says what they really think. This is a wider issue than just marketing copy or reviews. As Lizzie Crump from What Next? observed at a recent symposium, What is the Civic Role of Arts Organisations?, words such as “community” have different meanings to different communities. And in any case, there is no such thing as one community. If, as Crump says, “the language we use to describe the arts doesn’t really resonate with the public we are trying to engage”, then all attempts by the arts to reimagine the role of culture in society will have little traction. Why should people be interested in something that’s dressed up in a language they don’t find easy to understand?