She was born into great privilege, was a close family friend of Prince Charles and for a while lived a wild party lifestyle fuelled by drug abuse – not characteristics guaranteed to earn the admiration of the British public.Tara Palmer-Tomkinson dies aged 45 But Tara Palmer-Tomkinson, who has died at the age of 45, was also blessed with an intelligent, self-deprecating wit and a lively sense of fun, qualities that made her, for a time, one of the most popular minor celebrities of the late 1990s and 2000s – even if no one could quite remember what she was famous for.In recent years, having kicked a reported £400-a-day cocaine habit after several bouts in therapy, Palmer-Tomkinson had largely sought to retreat from the public eye, vowing that she had left the party lifestyle behind for good. “I’m not the person I was,” she said last year. “I’ve gone completely the other way. I’m a very quiet person now, and I like being that person.”After the publication of photographs of her looking frail, attracting insinuations that she had relapsed, the socialite revealed late last year that she had been suffering from a non-malignant brain tumour. Contrary to most people’s assumptions, she insisted, she had not taken drugs for a decade. But despite declaring herself more content, she had never quite found peace, she said, and continued to struggle with anxiety and self doubt. The daughter of a wealthy landowner and a former model, Palmer-Tomkinson came to attention in the mid-1990s as the highest profile of a clutch of so-called “It girls” who were famous for upper class partying and little else. She was pictured embracing Prince Charles on the ski slopes in Klosters in 1995 (as a close friend of her father, a former Olympic skier, the prince had known Palmer-Tomkinson since childhood), and the following year she was featured on the cover of Tatler. A highly entertaining society column in the Sunday Times (ghostwritten by one of the paper’s journalists) followed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Palmer-Tomkinson with Prince Charles at Klosters in 1996. Photograph: David Hartley/REX/ShutterstockNewspapers hailed her as “the next Elizabeth Hurley”, and she rapidly became as regular a fixture in the gossip pages of the tabloid press as she was in the nightclubs of Mayfair, the “toff-about-town” who was always good for a laugh and rarely failed to provide a juicy paparazzi shot. Of those days, she said later, “I was in a puff of fame, glamour and powder. In hindsight, I really wanted to be rich and famous, but I was so off my head on drugs.” Tara Palmer-Tomkinson – a life in pictures She became a regular fixture on TV, appearing on the first series of I’m a Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here in 2002 (she was the eventual runner-up) and countless other shows including Top Gear, Blind Date and as a contestant in the singing contest Comic Relief Does Fame Academy (which she won). For three years she was the face of Walkers Sensations crisps.But Palmer-Tomkinson’s addiction to cocaine was so severe that her life gradually span out of control. “I’d love to lie and say I have no regrets, but I do,” she has said. “I’d like to go back to that young girl and shake her. So much was handed to me on a plate.” A talented teenage pianist, at one point she had considered becoming a professional musician. Her older sister Santa had a quiet life by comparison, becoming a successful novelist and marrying the historian Simon Sebag Montefiore. A brother, James, runs a ski holiday company.Despite repeated spells in rehab, Palmer-Tomkinson’s septum collapsed in 2006 and she underwent cosmetic surgery to reconstruct her nose. She continued appearing on television for a few years but gradually stepped back from the limelight as her appetite for partying diminished. In 2012 she released an album, Flawed, and last year followed it with a clothing range, Desiderata London.The diagnosis early last year of a tumour on her pituitary gland, following a period when she had been feeling “terribly run down”, came as a huge shock. But despite being terrified that she was going to die, she was told that the growth was non-malignant and had responded well to treatment.Her ski-loving family had a motto, she told the Daily Mail, that at the pinnacle of the mountain, above the clouds, “it’s always sunny at the top ... I feel I’m breaking through the cloud with this. The sun is coming out.”She was determined not to consider herself a victim, she said, and had gained a new passion for life following her diagnosis. “A party doesn’t have to be full of lights and music. The party is what you want it to be – and my party isn’t over.”