What inspired the title ‘Love Song’?Titles are always difficult. For a long time, the story was called This Is Not A Love Song, which is the title of a great post-punk song by Public Image Limited, and which captures Nina’s feelings perfectly. But my friend Keren David was publishing a book called This Is Not A Love Story, so the titles were way too close. The book was Heart of Glass for a while (or HOG for short, in my emails to my editor), after the Blondie song. Chicken House weren’t sure about that, though, so it became Love Song (shortened from my first idea) as a holding title. Then Helen Crawford-Wright created the cover, and it just looked right. We all thought so, so we left it at that. And that’s why the final chapter echoes the title – because the cover helped inspire me to know how Nina would feel at the end.Is music important to you, and if so, what music do you like?Music is essential to me, and I’ve been lucky that the people I love have introduced me to so many different kinds. I’m a dancer, so I love funk and R&B and anything that’ll get me on the dancefloor. I listened obsessively to all the charts in the 1980s, and know most of the lyrics to most of the songs.Sophia Bennett's top 10 books set in the Mediterranean French rap is fantastic, and MC Solaar is a favourite. I love jazz, and Ella Fitzgerald singing Cole Porter is my idea of perfection. I’m also into chamber music, and adore Beethoven’s late quartets. There isn’t really a genre I don’t like. I was in Germany recently and saw a programme about death metal, and even that was brilliant once I got into it.Has a song ever struck you in such a way as ‘Kashmir’ affected Nina? Why?Kashmir really did strike me the way I describe it in the book, sending shivers up my spine. I was sitting with my eight year-old, listening to all sorts of music on YouTube, and this slow, driving rock beat came on. We were both transported. Music affects me the way it affects Nina in the book: when I love something, it really grabs me and takes over my life for a while. I get emotional about a song and have to play it over and over.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sophia Bennett together with members of The Abbey School Reading Library book club, cutting a celebratory Love Song cake! Photograph: The Abbey SchoolHave you ever had a particular liking for a band or artist, to the same magnitude as that of Ariel’s love of The Point?I loved The Police, Sting, Prince and David Bowie growing up, among others, but I didn’t dedicate myself to them the way superfans do. What I love about the fandoms is how supportive they can be; they give girls in particular a chance to express some very powerful emotions while they’re growing up.Many of the scenes in the book come from my life, though. A few years ago I went to a Police concert in Twickenham with my husband and was amazed to discover that 20 years after I first sang along, I could still remember every word of every song. The love and shared memories in the stadium that night were something I’ll never forget: rock stars are rock stars for a reason. I’ve had some fabulous experiences at Glastonbury too. When a hundred thousand people are all chanting together into the night sky it is one of the most magical feelings there is. The only thing better, probably, is being onstage, singing out to the crowd. I tried to capture that in Love Song too.Who is your favourite character in Love Song?That’s an impossible question. I love them all (except Jez). I even love Aunt Cassie, who is dead before it starts. Nina is largely based on me, and how conflicted (but mostly unimpressed) I would have felt about hanging out with a bunch of spoiled, rich, hot boys when I was a teenager. Her younger sister Ariel has the most fabulous two-tone hair, which I’m jealous of and which captures her love for the band and her hatred for it later. Jamie is the kind of boy I wanted to go out with, but never managed to (though I did marry a songwriting guitar player eventually). I’m very fond of Angus and I’d love to write more about him. He’s damaged and impulsive, and highly talented. He’d be a nightmare to go out with, but what a firework in the night sky. Issy is the girl I’d love to have been in the 1980s: so confident and cool. Cara Delevigne could play her in the movie. Actually, can that happen?How to create a book soundtrack What do you think will happen to Nina and Jamie’s relationship in the future?I strongly believe that the reader gets to decide what happens after the end. My opinion is worth no more or less than anyone else’s. But in my head, [SPOILER ALERT] Nina goes to art school in Brighton and has to travel the length of the country to be with Jamie when he’s not touring, which is difficult for both of them. When they’re together, they turn Heatherington Hall into exactly the kind of shabby, friendly festival venue they used to fantasise about, and Nina fills the house with family, animals, warmth and love. The other band members are jealous of what Jamie and Nina have, but their life together is precarious, and she doesn’t think it will last. However, even though they’re so young when they meet they’ve been through a lot together, and I actually think it will.How did you construct the interesting and varied settings within the plot? Were you inspired by any locations that you have visited?I’ve never been on tour with a band, but I’ve travelled since I was a baby. My dad was in the army and I followed him around the world. Then, as a teenager I studied languages and travelled around Europe. Creating scenes in Barcelona, Paris and New York was relatively easy, because I’ve loved them all. Verona was my favourite, because I have indeed stayed in a hotel exactly like the one I describe (it was gorgeous), and I’ve visited Juliet’s house there and been at first disappointed by the graffiti there, and then inspired by it.Then there was Heatherwick Hall, the grand, crumbling house in Northumberland where Nina and the band check out from the modern world for a while, and try to make art and music. That comes from my love of architecture and interior design, and from some inspirational houses I’ve stayed in and read about. Though I made it up, the Hall is so real to me now. I want to go to Northumberland and visit it!Is there any moral lesson that you wish readers to gain from Love Song?I don’t think there’s a moral lesson as such – although kindness and loyalty tend to be rewarded eventually in my books – but there is definitely a social message. Nina doesn’t fall in love with a guy from a rock band and then go on to live in his shadow, using his money and fame to lead her life. That’s actually the last thing she wants. She falls in love with a guy despite the fact he’s rich and famous. If anything, that risks getting in the way of her ambitions. It may not work out between them, but ultimately she won’t be disappointed, because she’s in charge of what she wants and how to get it. That’s what I hope readers will get from this book.Maggie Stiefvater: 'I navigate readers' emotions like a small ship through a rocky strait' Why do you enjoy writing from the perspective of teenagers? What draws you to the YA genre?That is such an interesting question. Why do I do it? I think it’s because I became the person I am now when I was about 14 to 17, through the books I read and the things they made me think and feel. I read spy novels, books about the Cold War and the Holocaust, romances, funny books… you name it, and they helped me form my opinions about life, the universe and everything. Those teenage years are an intense period in anyone’s life and I think teen experiences and obsessions can often be underestimated, but I’m constantly drawn to them.How do you effectively structure a story’s draft?Stories come to me the form of a simple idea I could describe in a paragraph. Over time, new characters, scenes and situations stick to it and after months or years, I’m ready to write it down. I used to do this in an outline on three or four sides of A4, but for Love Song I used a big sheet of paper and a lot of Post-It notes to describe characters, scenes and locations, which I rearranged as I went on. It worked really well, and I’d recommend it.I think of the story as scenes in the main character’s journey towards self-discovery, and I always try to build up to at least one big twist. I generally know the ending when I start, but the middle can be a bit of a mystery. Thinking of it in three acts, each with their own atmosphere and setting, helps me work my way through it. In this case: tour, songwriting time-out, aftermath.How do you go about editing your initial draft?John Green says ‘I always allow my first draft to suck’, and that’s great advice, because the first draft always does suck. Love Song, to me, sucked more than most. It had a few key scenes in it that I loved, but still contained big gaps where I wasn’t sure what to do. I gave it to fellow writers, like Keris Stainton and Susie Day, who helped me find the heart of the book. Then I gave you guys at The Abbey School a couple of chapters – one from the beginning and one from about half way through – and you advised me to keep the bits about Nina’s love of music (which I did) and to make the beginning less confusing (ditto). You also showed me that you’re really good at guessing endings from the word go, so I worked even harder to make this one intriguing.The more books I write, the more editing becomes an organic process for me: read, feel, see what works, keep the good bits, and ditch the bits that don’t work. Like a statue emerging from the stone, a story has to find its own nature as it emerges from the writing process. Then, my amazing editor works her magic. For Love Song, this was Bella Pearson. She’s brilliant, and I love her!Which character do you connect with the most?Sophia Bennett's top 10 stylish reads This might seem odd if you’ve read the book, but the character I connected with most was Windy, the band’s manager. It would have been easy to make him an evil, Svengali type, pushing the boys too hard and making money out of them. But in fact, he’s very kind and understands the boys better than they understand themselves. He made them famous and he really wants to help them create one last great album before they self-combust and fall apart. He’s like a father to them, and as I have four kids myself, I connect with that feeling of wanting young people to fulfil their potential. Also, he’s slightly mad and books them into a crumbling, borderline dangerous country house where things are bound to go wrong. I love that side of him too.Did any experience with bands influence the idea for the book? If not, where did the inspiration come from?I spend way too much time on the internet, following what’s happening in music and entertainment. I kept reading about One Direction’s relentless world tours, and after a while it stopped sounding amazing and just seemed exhausting. They always gave such upbeat interviews, but I wondered what it would be like staying in a different hotel or a tour bus night after night, rarely getting home, having everything you ever said or did recorded and commented on, never getting any privacy. What does mega-fame feel like from the inside? Once I started imagining that world, I quickly realised I wanted to write about young people who wrote all their own songs and played all the instruments, because that was more interesting to me creatively. I read about The Beatles, who were even more famous in the 1960s than 1D are now, hard as that is to imagine. I also read about Led Zeppelin, The Rolling Stones and Duran Duran, who followed in their wake. Touring with them would have been scary, but living with them while they made an album would have been incredible. And so Nina and The Point were born…How did you come up with the names? What made you call the band ‘The Point’?It’s briefly mentioned in the book that Jamie was inspired by reading a non-fiction book called The Tipping Point by Malcolm Gladwell, which is the kind of analytical, mind-expanding book that a boy like Jamie would enjoy. It’s about how some ideas and inventions get to be incredibly popular – by spreading in exactly the same way as viruses. So it fitted the most famous band on the planet. And they are ‘the point’ of their fans’ lives for so many of their special teen years, so that fitted too. Also, my editor liked the name. Which is important.What was the response you were looking for?Top 10 songs in teen novels: the ultimate young adult playlist Nina gets to live out a dream that so many girls fantasise about, but that she doesn’t want at all, because from the beginning she understands the dark side of getting your heart broken by a rock star. It’s an honest portrayal of the sort of cynical, scared feelings I had about love when I was 17. So I think the response I’m looking for is for a reader to say ‘Yes, I could imagine feeling that way, if I was in that situation.’In the meantime, I hope they’ll have fun working out which boy – or girl – they would fall for, and what they’d do about it if they did. And I hope there’s a strong message at the end, which is that being a rock star’s girlfriend won’t make you happy. You make you happy. Being with someone who loves and understands you can be a wonderful thing, but only if you have love and understanding to give in return. The rock star doesn’t rescue the girl: in the end she rescues him. She has her own life, and her own ambitions, and that’s what makes her interesting.What is your favourite book and why?I have so many favourite books. Noel Streatfeild’s Ballet Shoes will always be very special to me. PG Wodehouse’s Jeeves and Wooster stories are up there too. Right now, my favourite book is The Martian, by Andy Weir, because it’s funny and gripping and brimming with science, and because as a writer I marvel at how he manages to get in so much detail and yet keep the story on a knife-edge of excitement. Read it! It’s amazing. (It also contains a lot of disco.)Why and how did you start writing books?I couldn’t not write books. I had a load of other jobs for years, because I was too scared to try and write properly. I did a PhD at Cambridge and was even a strategy consultant for a big international firm. But all the time there were stories circling around my head, like planes waiting to land. If you’re a writer, you know the feeling. I was so glad when I finally took the plunge and wrote my first novel – a detective story called The Body of a Dancer, which never saw the light of day. Once I started, it took me ten years to get published, but it was worth it.If you had the opportunity to meet any artist or band (alive or dead!), who would you meet – and why?A few weeks ago, that would have been a hard question. Now it’s not hard at all. David Bowie died in January and I was floored by the shock. He was hugely influential on me, growing up and dancing in the 1980s, and he’s in the book at least twice. At the time, I thought he was beautiful, intriguing, unique and a great, great songwriter. Since his death, every story I’ve heard about him describes all of that and more: how perfect he was to work with; how super-intelligent he was; how funny; what a gentleman; and what a wonderful husband and father. Nobody has a bad word to say about him. In a perfect world, it would be 1990s New York and I would get to hang out with him and Iman at their apartment, and maybe make him laugh. And, if I was lucky and Iman didn’t mind, get to dance with him.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Site member Katy on what it was like to help edit Love SongI know I speak on behalf of all our members when I say that helping edit Sophia’s new book has been an amazing and exciting opportunity. We want to thank Sophia for allowing us to help her with Love Song because getting involved in the actual process leading up to the produced book has been really fun and interesting.I remember when we got through the first chapter, at the very start, and we all read through it and loved it. We all gave our feedback and it was very rewarding knowing that any comments we had would actually be read and used. Then when we got the whole manuscript everyone wanted to be the first to read it and send back their opinions; we all had to wait our turn, but it was definitely worth it. All that led up to this moment when we actually have the proof copies of Love Song and – as if being thanked in the acknowledgements wasn’t exciting enough – we also get to interview Sophie and ask all the questions we’ve wanted to for a long time. This has been an invaluable experience for all of us involved and especially because we love literature and books so much! All in all, it’s been a wonderful experience and we’re all so grateful to Sophia and we wish her and her book the best of luck!Sophia Bennett’s Love Song is available from the Guardian Bookshop.