Whether it’s a trip to the Odeon, a night of cheese and wine or a visit to your local Quasar, date night could be saving your marriage – but only if it’s monthly. According to a new study by the Marriage Foundation, couples who have a date night once a month are 14% less likely to break up.Weekly date nights apparently did not increase the chances of couples staying together, and the effect worked only for those partners who had put a ring on it – not cohabitees, for whom the “date night”, according to Harry Benson and Stephen McKay, who carried out the research, is “less intentional, simply a night out”.So we asked the public what they think: is “date night” a marriage-saver? An expensive way to spend a Tuesday evening? Or is the mere mention of organised marital fun enough to make them queasy …?Jack Rogers, 75, Calgary, married 47 years      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Rogers. Photograph: Frantzesco Kangaris for the GuardianWe’ve always had regular date nights, as a habit or tradition – we go to movies twice a week; Friday and Sunday matinee. Our last date night was on Saturday, we went out for fish and chips. I’m sure date nights have helped my marriage – just doing things together, things to look forward to. I think my wife enjoys them – that’s why I’m allowed to stay.Laura, 48, Wapping, married four years      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   LauraWe try to go on date nights once a week, but it depends. We generally go out for a meal – sit and chat in a nice environment. And I’m an artist so we go to openings. Sometimes the theatre. I think date nights are important because you can get too complacent in the home routine and take the other person for granted, so it’s important to take a step back and look at each other; get some perspective.Beta Varplicanskyte, 26, London, getting married next year      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Beta VarplicanskyteWe probably have a date night twice a month as a minimum. When he arranges it, we go to restaurants; when I arrange it, we go parachuting – that was nice. We’ve always gone on date nights – it’s less now because we live together. Even if you’re at home after work, you’re not really together, are you? You’re just doing your separate thing.Ashish Bhatnagar, 38, Chiswick, married nine years      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ashish BhatnagarWe go on date nights once a week. We usually just go for a Saturday lunch; we both like Thai. They’re definitely important – a break from our Monday-to-Friday routine. Before our kid was born, we went more regularly.Helen Pool, 63, Glasgow, married 34 years      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helen PoolWe go out twice a month, usually for a meal or to the cinema. Or we go away for the weekend – we like city breaks: Rotterdam was last, Madrid, Paris … It is romantic – do I have to admit to that? Date nights have without a doubt helped our relationship. Now the children are grown up, we’re a lot closer and it’s almost like going back to when we used to go out. What we do on date nights has changed, though. I used to go to rugby, football, that kind of thing. Now it’s more time spent just the two of us.James Sleigh, 43, Cambridge, married 16 years      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James SleighWe go out maybe once every three months – we have two small children so that makes it difficult. Before kids, it happened much more regularly – every week. My wife is a cookery publisher, so if I’m lucky she might take me somewhere cool to eat. I go where I’m told. Before kids, it would be either food or music; back in the day we’d go to indie rock gigs. It’s very important now, because it’s a kind of psychological life raft where we actually get to talk to each other – we have a bitch about work, which is difficult to do at home.Seeta Maharaj, 50, married 11 years      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seeta MaharajWe go on date nights once a week. We like to go out for a meal – Thai, Indian, Chinese. Or to listen to music – mostly classical and poppy, folky things. We’ve always gone regularly and we make a point of it. He lives in Eastbourne at the moment and I’m living in London temporarily so we go out when we meet up at the weekend. I think it gives our relationship momentum and makes us excited to see each other. Date nights keep the relationship alive.