Cheese, pickle and salad sandwichEAT, West Country cheddar ploughmans, £3.29Generous with good strong cheddar. The chutney has body and flavour. A little spinach gives freshness.★★★★Pret A Manger mature cheddar and Pret pickle £2.49The raw onion brings sharpness. The mayonnaise - I’m not usually a fan - is balanced with great chutney. Nice cheddar tang.★★★★Marks & Spencer cheddar cheese ploughmans, £2.30Quite moist. A lot of cheese, but not all that much else … a little bit of chutney. As a whole though it’s pretty good.★★★Waitrose Cheddar ploughmans sandwich £2.30 Not much flavour overall. Three slices of thin and not very crumbly cheese. Not a lot of chutney coming through. Lots of salad.★★Egg sandwich      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aldi Just Tasty Egg & cress sandwich. Photograph: Pål Hansen for the ObserverBenugo egg and semi-dried tomato bloomer, £3.25The bread’s got body and flavour. There’s a lightness to the mayonnaise in the filling - it’s not pastey. The best to my palate.★★★★Aldi Just Tasty egg and cress sandwich, 85pA classic afternoon tea sandwich. Good if you like things simple and plain, or if you’ve lost your teeth.★★★The Co-operative Loved By Us low-fat egg, spinach and tomato sandwich £2.25There’s a lovely layer of fresh spinach. I’m not a fan of sliced tomato in a sandwich: it reminds me of my school lunchbox.★★★Greggs egg sandwich from £1.40There’s not much to this one - it’s just egg. No colour, no texture. There’s not a lot of love in that sandwich. The loser.★★Salmon salad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pret A Manger Roast Salmon & Avo SuperBowl.Pret A Manger Roast salmon and avo superbowl approx 240g, £5.25Lovely piece of salmon. The avo is a bit woody. By far the best dressing. Perfect lunch on the run.★★★★Sainsbury’s hot smoked salmon salad 200g, £3Packed full of bouncy fresh greens. Classic Scandinavian flavours. A point is lost for the salmon, it looks like it’s tinned.★★★Marks & Spencer hot smoked salmon and new potato salad 340g, £4.50The salmon is delicious. Everything looks crunchy. The dressing could be a bit sharper.★★★Waitrose Good to Go hot smoked salmon and quinoa salad 230g, £3.95The salad looks a bit old. It tastes like leftovers - not necessarily bad but nothing very exciting.★★Hoisin duck wrap      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   M&S Hoisin duck wrapPret A Manger hoisin duck wrap £3.50Great presentation: lots of green, fresh onion. And a good level of seasoning. My favourite, it tastes fresher.★★★★Marks & Spencer hoisin duck wrap £3.30Classic. Nice big chunks of cucumber. A rich sticky sauce, quite a unique strong taste of orange or tangerine …★★★Morrisons aromatic duck wrap £2.30It doesn’t look appealing at all. The duck is shredded rather than in pieces, it doesn’t feel meaty. It’s all a bit soggy and limp and soft.★★Waitrose hoisin duck wrap £3.10,Doesn’t taste like much at all. Really, really mean on the filling. Mostly bread, a tiny bit of duck and a bit of lettuce.No starsFalafel salad      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benugo Gorgeous Greek saladBenugo Gorgeous Greek salad 250g, £3.50Nice mixture of grains and lettuce. Very simple. The hummus tastes fresh and homemade. It’s cheeky only having two baby falafels.★★★★Tesco falafel, red pepper and tabbouleh salad 260g, £2.80Lots of crunchy greens - it’s light - less grain, more veggies. The falafels are a bit rubbery and cold.★★★Marks & Spencer Falafel and bulgar wheat salad with a houmous dip 300g, £3The smallest falafels I’ve ever seen. Nice bite to the grain. Not a lively lunch bowl.★★Caffè Nero Falafel and tabbouleh salad 269g, £3.95It doesn’t taste wonderfully fresh. Generous with the falafels but they’re sweet. It feels a bit 1970s vegetarian.★Hot chicken and rice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leon Chicken & Chorizo Club Hot Box Photograph: Pål Hansen for the ObserverBEST BUY: Leon chicken and chorizo club hot box, approx 437g, £6.95The rice is really nicely cooked, lots of fresh vegetables and the rich chorizo makes it a treat. It tastes homemade.★★★★★Itsu Thai chicken brown rice potsu 534g, £6.39,Quite a few vegetables. Not too rich. Not a knock-your-socks-off curry, it’s a bit too smooth for a Thai curry. It could be a bit punchier.★★★Pret A Manger Red Thai chicken curry quinoa rice pot approx 330g, £5.50Good having the different grains. The sliced raw red pepper doesn’t really go.★★★Wasabi Chicken katsu curry bento approx 720g, £6.29It’s fast food - a really big portion of soft bland white rice and fried chicken. If you’re hungover, desperate and need to get through the afternoon.★★Bill Granger is a restaurateur and food writer