The Secret Life of the Zoo 8pm, Channel 4The Secret Life of the Zoo returns for a third series, with Chester zoo once more fitted with hundreds of cameras to follow some of the 20,000 animals. Tiny orchid mantis Bruce faces being eaten alive by partner Natasha, but can he breed before he becomes a snack? Meanwhile, in the anteater enclosure, the charismatic Pedro is hugely popular with staff and visitors alike, but he has stopped eating and his keepers are getting worried. Ben ArnoldBlack-ish 8.30pm, E4A third season of adventures begins for the Johnson family, and patriarch Dre proudly provides a very important vacation: the most premium of passes to Walt Disney World. But when everyone gets too accustomed to simply waltzing their way to the head of queues, how will they cope with the ignominy of standard service once that golden ticket times out? Community’s Jim Rash guests as Walt Disney Company’s ever-helpful and overfamiliar guide. Mark Gibbings-JonesThe Secret Science of Pop 9pm, BBC4By his own admission, evolutionary biologist Professor Armand Leroi isn’t “much of a music fan”. (If he were, he might not have confused Love to Love You Baby with I Feel Love.) But he does know about algorithms and, in this surprising and dispiriting exercise (the least adventurous songs sell the most), he discovers which bands and genres transformed the musical landscape. Guess who won in the punk v disco standoff? Ali CatterallThe Replacement 9pm, BBC1Morven Christie and Vicky McClure star in this new three-parter, a taut and engrossing thriller that gradually unfolds in Hitchcock-meets-single white female style. Architect Ellen (Christie) is left uneasy by her maternity cover Paula (McClure). While Paula excels at work, Ellen finds her overfamiliar and unprofessional and worries that she is usurping her. Is it merely Ellen’s hormonal brain playing tricks, or could Paula indeed have a hidden agenda? Hannah J DaviesBillions 9pm, Sky AtlanticSeason two of the series continues with its two main protagonists, Damian Lewis’s Axe and Paul Giamatti’s Chuck, simmering at permanent loggerheads with any final resolution deferred for as long as the show is recommissioned. Still, it is entertaining if you can take the constant motivational-speech dialogue. This week, Axe has a public pop at a rival hedge-fund manager while Chuck desperately seeks to save a career jeopardised by a mountain of lawsuits. David StubbsCatastrophe 10pm, Channel 4Sharon Horgan and Rob Delaney pick up where they left off: season three opens by continuing the scene in which “Rob” discovers “Sharon” has furtively bought the morning-after pill. Has she cheated? She was too drunk to know, so there follows an almost agonising farce in which two vulnerable characters wonder if their relationship is over. Thanks to Horgan and Delaney’s mastery at mixing cringe with rude, roaring laughs, though, it’s still a joyful catharsis. Jack Seale Imagine: Maya Angelou – And Still I Rise 10.45pm, BBC1Alan Yentob presents a profile of poet and activist Maya Angelou, in what is billed as the first documentary portrait of her – either a demonstration of extraordinary lifelong reticence or a bizarre dereliction by US film-makers. Angelou’s story is extraordinary even aside from her literary canon. Interviews shot shortly before her death in 2014 are supplemented by contributions from Bill and Hillary Clinton and Quincy Jones, among others. Andrew Mueller Film choiceSideways (Alexander Payne, 2004), 6.05am, Sky Cinema OscarsA wry slant on modern life, in which handsome ladies’ man Jack (Thomas Haden Church) and wine nerd Miles (Paul Giamatti) are chums on the road through California’s vineyards, where they meet two women (Virginia Madsen and Sandra Oh). It’s a very funny, beautifully acted, easy-paced odyssey through middle-age male anxieties.Live sportChampionship Football: Brighton & Hove Albion v Newcastle United Two favourites for promotion face off at the Amex Stadium. 7.30pm, Sky Sports 1ODI Cricket: New Zealand v South Africa The fourth one-day contest in the five-match series. 12.55am, Sky Sports 2