Elvis Costello got it right. His song “Every Day I Write the Book” chants that endless circadian repetition: “every day, every day, every day, every day I write the book”. Yet as desperate and maddening as writing can be, it never seems laborious. I’m wary of trying to explain my writing day as I simply don’t see it as a daily routine. I find too much pleasure in it when it’s going well. And the innocuous comment, “You must be disciplined” sounds more like a command than a question. I always say that if it were merely a matter of discipline I’d get someone else to do it. I love the artist Dan Flavin’s retort to being asked about his working procedure: “Work? Work? ... I hate work.” But there surely is some toil to be done. It’s just hard to explain without it sounding like a cover story for time wasted. Because sometimes it just doesn’t work. Every day, every day, every day, every day it might just not happen.So I fear the sack every day from the best job I’ve ever had: my first and only foray into white-collar employment with its strange creative bureaucracy. I spend much time making notes in longhand. For me there is no better technology than pen on paper – it’s the quickest and most flexible way of making thoughts tangible, palpable. And there is a sensual pleasure in the scribble of letters, each little character crawling and sprawling. I’m working through the raw ideas. For me fiction is an attempt to recover a false memory, to reconstruct the details of events that never happened, to somehow pretend that one remembers them. A strange sort of reverse engineering of something that has yet to become a story. It begins with fragments, vague snatches of dialogue. I talk to myself a lot and waste a lot of paper making repetitive and barely articulate notes. This is usually the morning’s work. I spend time searching for some missing page with words I imagine to be important scrawled on it. I start to collect all these dead leaves, to shuffle them into some sort of sequence. Fiction is an attempt to reconstruct the details of events that never happened, to pretend that one remembers them Having assembled something that might form the guide for a scene or even a whole chapter, I then have to put my thoughts in order. And the only way to do this is to go for a walk. I follow Nietzsche’s dictum that “only ideas won by walking have any value” and need to perambulate to really get my mind working. It might be the rhythm of it, the conscious and unconscious intent beating out a measure, and the sense of travel, of transportation in time as well as space. And for my latest novel it became a form of deep research. The Fatal Tree is set in 18th-century London and I was lucky enough to be working close to where most of the action is set and could explore its labyrinthine topography. I would follow the banks of the River Fleet, its underground course flowing down Ray Street into Farringdon Road. This was the main sewer that John Gay dubbed Cloacina, the goddess of the gutter, and it now runs beneath the new cycle lane that runs along that street down to Blackfriars. Or I might plod above it, over the crossing at Holborn viaduct to St Sepulchre-without-Newgate. Here the procession to Tyburn for the condemned began, a gruesome narrative of its own with hidden detours like the alleyway of Little Turnstile where the thief Jack Sheppard planned to make his final escape from the noose. As well as providing necessary mental exercise, these peregrinations became essential to the imagining of the book.Then I come back and start to tap it all out on to a screen. My notes are like sketches for a bigger picture, or a mosaic that I piece together. I start to see it now as pages of text that I can read back to myself and continually revise. I’m always rereading, rewriting.After lunch I’ll have a siesta. An hour of complete relaxation that might drift into light sleep. Those instilled with the northern work ethic might balk at this Mediterranean practice but I’m convinced it actually increases productivity. You just work a little later and in a better state. Lying on your back for a while is the best thing you can do for your body. And it’s wonderful for the mind, too. So I find inspiration on my feet or supine, then I’m ready to sit at my desk and put it all down.But this is a good day. It’s not every day. Some days it just doesn’t come. But it’s the quality not the quantity that counts and the thinking that might bear fruit later. When taunted that he might have only written one word in an entire day, Truman Capote responded: “Yes, but it was the right word.” And with that thought one beats a retreat and waits for tomorrow. For he who writes and runs away, lives to write another day. The Fatal Tree is published by Sceptre next week.