Ordinary Mexicans are apparently so fed up with the widespread corruption of their politicians that it’s become a joke to declare that if you are unfortunate enough to get terminal cancer, you will take the opportunity to shoot a few of them. In Bucket List, the latest show from Theatre Ad Infinitum, Milagros, a young Mexican girl whose mother was killed for protesting against the corruption of local politicians and US corporations, and whose friends fall victim to vested interests and patriarchal violence, decides to mete out her own rough justice.Edinburgh festival 2016: 21 unmissable shows for kids and their families Bucket List, which opens at the Pleasance Dome on the Edinburgh fringe in August, is a nightmarish anti-fairytale that will chime with anybody who has found themselves suffering a great injustice, discovered that there is no redress because they are small and poor and have no voice, and knows that those responsible are rich and powerful.“In some ways Milagros is like a Disney heroine – as the piece goes on the audience are rooting for her against the odds,” says director Nir Paldi. “We feel the injustice she has suffered. But of course what they are rooting for is for her to succeed in her determination to kill. It raises questions about whether or not violence is ever justifiable. In rehearsals the word terrorist popped up pretty early on.”Paldi has lived with these questions every day. He was raised in Israel, and his experience of the occupation and what that means for both Palestinians and Israelis fed into 2013’s The Ballad of the Burning Star, an award-winning show that began with a bang and risked causing offence with its garish drag cabaret style and a story– clearly inspired by Paldi’s own experience – of a Jewish boy who comes to understand that he is both victim and oppressor.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Risking offence … Theatre Ad Infinitum’s 2013 show The Ballad of the Burning Star. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the Guardian“The occupation has done such damage to us all, Palestinians and Israelis,” he says. “I’m against violence, but you can’t grow up in Israel without understanding why some people think that it’s the only way they can bring about change. It’s the same for Milagros in Bucket List. Even if you think what she is trying to do is a terrible idea, you’re still faced with the question: how else can she make people take notice of what has happened to her and her town?”Theatre Ad Infinitum has always been interested in questions of social justice and politics, but what marks the company out is how distinctively different each and every show is that they create. Unlike many companies, there is no such thing as a house style, and they range widely: 2011’s Translunar Paradise was a mask and mime show about bereavement and the loss of the self, while 2014’s not entirely successful Light was a dystopian wordless examination of state surveillance inspired by the storyboard style of a graphic novel.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I’m against violence, but how else can Milagros make people take notice of what has happened to her town?’ … Bucket List. Photograph: Alex BrennerThe company has two artistic directors – Paldi and George Mann – who take it in turns to direct projects and have very different interests: “I love words, and George’s physicality is very strong,” says Paldi. But he believes that the company’s ability to switch effortlessly between forms comes from their training under the legendary Jacques Lecoq, and from often working with many of the same actors. “It makes it a different soup each time.”The initial idea for Bucket List came from the Mexican actor Vicky Araico, with whom Paldi collaborated in 2012 on the widely acclaimed refugee story Juana in a Million, about a young Mexican woman who comes to London as an illegal immigrant after her family’s business is destroyed by corruption and the violence of drug cartels.“What she told me about Mexico and what has happened there as a result of the North American Free Trade Agreement made me want to find out more and see the connection between what is happening in Mexico and what is going on worldwide,” Paldi says. “What we’ve got is a global capitalist humanitarian disaster going on in which a few are taking advantage of the many and miserable. We are all part of it, every time we pick up a new phone or put on a new pair of shoes. If Milagros was to extend her list of people to kill, we’d all be on it, because we are all implicated.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Masking loss … Translunar Paradise, another Theatre Ad Infinitum production, from 2011. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianSince the 1990s, increasing numbers of US corporations have set up shop on the Mexican side of the border, taking advantage of less stringent environmental regulations and cheap labour to build huge manufacturing plants and assembly line factories. Birth defects and ill health in these areas have increased, alongside environmental pollution, and while the American corporations and local politicians may have got rich, those who work in the factories have not. Just as in China, where hundreds of thousands toil hand-making electronic products that they themselves would never be able to afford to buy, so an international trade agreement has facilitated cheap products for western consumers at the cost of workers’ rights and health and environmental damage in a faraway country.Paldi believes that we need to look hard at how these trade agreements work and for whose benefit. “This global capitalism is a new form of colonialism in which the few take advantage of the many and miserable. Here in the UK, we sit and are very comfortable and very lucky. But it is not by luck or chance that half the world is exploiting the resources of the other poorer half of the world. Should we just stand by and let this happen – or how can we take action to do something about it?”• Bucket List is at Pleasance Dome, Edinburgh, from 3 August. Box office: 0131-556 6550.