1. Born to Make You HappyThe title alone is uncomfortable to contemplate, and the song as a whole can only be described as a determined erasure of the autonomous self. Is the most disturbing line the one in which Britney apologises to her absent ex for crying over the split? Like most of her real relationships, this one doesn’t seem as if it was ever that healthy. Forget the idea that Britney’s job was to set any sort of example; calls for pop stars to be role models, especially in their music, are moralistic cant. Born to Make You Happy is horrifying as text and irresistible as pop, and the two are inextricable. The sugar-sweet melody – unlike her other early singles, this one required no modern production tricks – and that magnificent key change pull you in despite the horror; the song invites you to willingly, ecstatically, be swept into its darkness. The horror is not only that a sweetly smiling teenager is giving voice to disturbing emotions, but that this penchant for self-degradation and co-dependency is within us as well: she’s tapped into it and forced us to enjoy it.2. StrongerOf Britney’s first five Max Martin-produced singles, four are variations on a theme sonically and lyrically, and form a narrative. If Britney begins in a position of powerlessness, so in thrall to her emotions that she sings about craving love as though she’s begging for her life on … Baby One More Time, this swiftly gives way to a giddy mania on (You Drive Me) Crazy. It’s unclear whether she ever got the boy, but she’s by no means prostrate. Full liberation from romantic myths came on her second album, Oops! … I Did It Again, with the title track’s sarcastic rejection of the ultimate 90s fairytale, Titanic, when Britney isn’t at all bothered about her lover rescuing the necklace dropped into the sea in the film. It was exorcised completely on Stronger, with its callback to Britney’s debut. “My loneliness ain’t killing me no more,” she declared, and – as it would so many times over her career – freedom from dysfunctional emotion meant going deeper into the machine. Martin’s formula for these singles is instantly familiar – the hard-edged crunch of his heavy-metal background recalibrated for pneumatic, kinetic pop beats. But each is harder-edged than its predecessor, as though Martin was testing to see how abrasive he could make pop radio: (You Drive Me) Crazy throws ringing percussion into the mix, Oops! pounds where … Baby One More Time pouted. Stronger is the toughest of the four. The three-note … Baby intro has morphed into a gnarly industrial stab of sound; the song gives way to a jacked-up Jam & Lewis breakdown; and for the first but by no means last time, Britney embraces the inhuman qualities of her strange, hiccupping voice with vocals distorted and ground up against the beat.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 3. AnticipatingWith Britney’s third album came a move into grownup territory that was heavily telegraphed but no less effective, as she was paired with the Neptunes production team in their prime. The lead single, I’m a Slave 4 U, was one of the most radical sonic statements in the chart at a time – autumn 2001 – when sonic radicalism could score well on the charts. Counterintuitively, one of the best songs on its parent album turned out to be one of the fluffiest, complexity-free tracks of her career. Uncomplicated joy has rarely been a hallmark of Britney’s discography, but Anticipating nails it. There’s some guy Britney’s beckoning over, but the core of her pleasure is the DJ’s sound and the song he’s playing. With those swooping, gliding disco strings – check the momentary weightlessness at the start of the second verse, when they cradle Britney’s voice when everything else drops out – who could blame her? Points, too, for bridging Britney to French house, courtesy of the gem that is the Alan Braxe remix.4. Before the GoodbyeSome of the best pop captures a feeling that lasts a fraction of a second and stretches it out over three minutes. Before the Goodbye, a collaboration with 90s trance producer BT which was initially – inexplicably – only released on the Japanese edition of Britney’s third album, zeroes in on the momentary foreshadowing of loneliness and loss that flits across the mind despite the comforting presence of a lover. It’s a brief feeling, a passing shadow, but Britney mines every aspect of it: the donning of emotional armour, the defensive pre-emptive apology, the fear of the impotency of loneliness. The beat stutters, stumbles and doesn’t quite explode in the first chorus; we’re almost halfway through before a pounding house rhythm emerges. It’s a room with many doors, from uncertainty to release, and one of the best framings of Britney’s voice to date. 5. Everytime   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One of Britney’s oddest curveballs was following the gleaming banger Toxic, a song that resurrected her ailing career, with its polar opposite. Everytime is a small, lost piano ballad that fed into the tabloid drama of Britney and her ex, Justin Timberlake (it played out as a response to Timberlake’s magnificent Cry Me a River, released the previous year). Its video all but depicted the singer killing herself in a bathtub (implying also that the paparazzi are as much to blame as her breakup). Its fragility is disarming. Despite its sparseness, Everytime still has production tricks up its sleeve (courtesy of Björk collaborator Guy Sigsworth): strange clicks and swells, burbling beneath the piano line, create a womb-like atmosphere. It’s a rare pop hit that seizes attention by shrinking further away.6. Breathe on MeBritney could never be described as a virtuoso vocalist, but her voice isn’t a limitation so much as an oddity. It’s doubtless one of the most distinctive, immediately recognisable sounds in the past two decades of pop, even if it has often sounded more robotic than human. It has also clearly been a producer’s dream in its elasticity – but while many have found the most mileage in highlighting its alien qualities through distortion, Breathe on Me is a rare example of a producer (the otherwise unknown Mark Taylor) drawing out its latent beauty. Britney’s breathiness might not be technically good singing, but paired here with a burbling house track, it’s as sensual as she’s ever been. The wordless exhalation that rises out of the whispered bridge is simply gorgeous.7. Piece of Me“Do you want a piece of me?” snarls Britney, as though she’s simultaneously coming on to her audience, wearily resigning herself to what the public wants of her and squaring up for a fight. The 2007 album Blackout is her masterpiece, a defiant statement of self that was released at the singer’s most public nadir. The year leading up to the album had seen Britney shave her head, physically attack paparazzi and lose custody of her children. Three months after its release, worldwide audiences gawped in real time as she was stretchered from her house to the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, sectioned and placed under the conservatorship of her father – a setup that is still ongoing nearly a decade later. The production and songwriting personnel on Blackout, from Bloodshy & Avant to Danja to Keri Hilson, seemed to take Britney’s public persona as a muse of sorts. Astounding production – abrasive, distorted, fragmented, pitch-shifted – combines with lyrics that veer from meta commentary to giving-the-finger hedonism. The result is to capture the character of a woman on the edge of her sanity. But Blackout is not a tragedy; it’s the culmination of the story Britney started telling seven years earlier on Lucky. If that poignant-in-retrospect single was a hand reaching for help through the fourth wall, then Blackout – and particularly Piece of Me, probably its most representative cut – is a fist punching through it. “I’m Mrs Most Likely to Get on TV for Stripping on the Streets,” Britney offers, over degraded bass, chicken squawks and finally a carefree whistle breakdown. Her head was a mess in 2007, but her message on Blackout was clear: this is what we did to her.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 8. Hot As IceBlackout overflows with ridiculous aural confections, but Hot As Ice might be the strangest. It’s a hallucinatory dance through a demented fairground of manically grinning ooh-aah-aah backing vocals that segue seamlessly into skewed gospel chants. Synth organs oscillate as Britney conveys the physical state of being unable to properly regulate your body temperature when under the influence.9. Till the World EndsBritney rarely gets the credit for introducing dubstep to mainstream American pop with the wobble bass of 2007’s Freakshow. So her embrace of its EDMed-up iteration brostep on 2011’s Femme Fatale was less about trend-jacking and more about picking up where she left off. Post-Blackout, Britney has occupied a strange, nostalgic place in pop culture. Her ultra-manufactured style of pop stardom feels anachronistic in an era when fans demand at least a facade of authenticity from their artists, and it’s arguable that this is a reaction to seeing what the industry did to stars like Britney in the first place. As for Britney, simply hearing her sounding blithe is always a relief, even when she’s yearning for apocalypse. Till the World Ends was part of a mini-wave of memento mori club songs around this time that conflated the certainty of approaching death with the necessity of partying hard (think also Pitbull’s Give Me Everything and Nicki Minaj’s Starships). Even better is the Femme Fatale remix – sadly not on Spotify – on which Britney is so thoroughly streamlined into the song’s gleaming bass that it’s up to Ke$ha and Minaj to ramp up the hedonism. They’re both at their most wilfully obnoxious: Ke$ha leans even further into her then trademark Auto-Tune with a vocal that comes as close to capturing the spirit of vomiting into a club toilet as any; Minaj shrieks about poultry and mimes sniffing coke, but most satisfyingly becomes the first rapper to rhyme “Britney” with “pickney” since Dizzee Rascal eight years previously on Seems 2 Be. Partying is a messy business, but at least if there’s an apocalypse you won’t need to clean up.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 10. Work B**ch“Call me the bubb-lah!” So much of Britney’s material is lent extra meaning simply by being refracted through her own narrative, and Work B**ch is a prime example. On the one hand, it’s a very silly RuPaul-goes-EDM banger that’s at its most functional in the gym. But it’s impossible to hear her exhortations to labour as separate from the system that created Britney Spears, the wealthy celebrity, the cautionary tale, the woman with a tortured relationship to autonomy. “You wanna live fancy? Live in a big mansion? Party in France? You better work, bitch,” she snaps, dishing out capitalist advice from the inside. But Britney is simultaneously the star, the product and the victim of this brutal credo, and if there’s a whip being cracked, it’s the one that’s been on her back for 17 years. One thing Work B**ch isn’t: an office soundtrack. How to subvert a capitalist ethos that seems all-encompassing? Transform it into a club anthem, to be played somewhere where the only work happening is the dancing variety.