British playwright Arnold Wesker dies, aged 83 Arnold Wesker was part of a generation of dramatists, including John Osborne, Harold Pinter and John Arden, who helped change the face of British theatre. In The Kitchen, he pioneered the idea of dramatising the world of work. In what came to be known as the Wesker Trilogy (Chicken Soup With Barley, Roots and I’m Talking About Jerusalem) he linked a family’s fortunes to world events. And in Chips with Everything he offered one of the shrewdest analyses ever written of the British establishment’s capacity to absorb and neutralise protest. Even if many of Wesker’s most durable plays were first seen between 1958 and 1962, he continued writing for the theatre with unshakable tenacity and self-belief. One of his strengths was his ability to capitalise on his own experience. Having once worked in a Paris restaurant, he drew on his memories in The Kitchen to capture both the repetitive nature of daily toil and the almost balletic frenzy of the peak-hour mealtimes. It is also difficult not see elements of Wesker in Ronnie Kahn, the articulate young socialist who appears in Chicken Soup with Barley and who is disillusioned by the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cecil Beaton photographs Wesker in 1963, for Vogue. Photograph: Cecil Beaton/Getty ImagesBut what moves one about the play is the mother’s final rebuke to her son when she tells him: “Ronnie, if you don’t care you’ll die.” Wesker was a realist who never lost his sense of human aspiration. It is precisely that which makes Roots, first seen in 1959, his most frequently revived play. Wesker, who throughout his career wrote exceptionally well for women, created an iconic heroine in the figure of Beatie Bryant. Turning up at her Norfolk family’s rural home, she parrots her absent boyfriend’s ideas about art and life with hectoring enthusiasm. But the great moment comes when, on realising she has been dumped, she speaks with her own unaided voice. Whether played by Joan Plowright, in the first production, or Jessica Raine in a recent Donmar revival, Beatie’s self-discovery always brings a lump to the throat.If Wesker’s early plays had personal origins, they also had profound political and social resonance. Chips with Everything was based on Wesker’s experience of National Service and shows a group of raw RAF conscripts being encouraged to rebel by an officer’s son, Pip, who defies his background. What makes the play so chilling is the sight of Pip’s gradual enlistment into the officer class he has betrayed: it is a classic case of what Marcuse called “repressive tolerance”. But what makes the play so theatrically exciting is the spectacle of an uncoordinated group of airmen being turned into a well-drilled unit at the climactic passing out parade.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Arnold Wesker talks to the Guardian about his life and workWesker’s later plays rarely repeated the success of his early ones but many of them deserve attention. Their Very Own and Golden City (1965) is a fascinating account of a utopian architectural scheme bedevilled by realpolitik: ironically the visionary architects dream of a reinvigorated movement to be called “New Labour.” The Journalists (1971) offers a kaleidoscopic collage about a Sunday newspaper and argues that journalism reflects our Lilliputian society’s desire to cut everyone down to size. The Merchant (later retitled Shylock, 1976) was Wesker’s highly original response to Shakespeare’s The Merchant of Venice and showed Shylock and Antonio as friends united in their contempt for antisemitic Venetian law.Arnold Wesker: 'I've never understood my reputation for grumpiness' | interview Wesker wrote many other plays, including three excellent monologues called Annie Wobbler, specifically created for Nichola McAuliffe, but often found his work gaining more favour abroad than in Britain. But, although he was prepared to challenge critics and had a reputation for contentiousness, I always found him a charming and easy companion when I had the luck to meet him round a lunch table. He also had his champions amongst a younger generation, and none more so than Stephen Daldry during his tenure at the Royal Court. As Daldry says: “With his passing and that of Bill Gaskill recently, we are beginning to lose the voices of a generation that shaped theatre as we understand it today. The working-class Jewish idiom that Arnold gave expression to was unique, heartfelt and radical.”Those strike me as wise words about a dramatist who, even in charting the failure of social and political dreams, never lost his faith in humanity’s enduring potential.