What’s the name of this show? 60 Days InWhen does it premiere? Thursday, 10 March, at 9pm EST on A&E.Where are we spending 60 days? Prison.For real? This is a reality show where seven civilians are sent into the Clark County Jail in Indiana for two months.Who thought this was a good idea? County Sheriff Jamey Noel. His jail has been busted for vice and corruption not only among the inmates, but also the guards. He trained seven people – three women and four men – to go into the jail under cover. No one inside the system – except Noel and one of his deputies – know what they’re doing there. The participants don’t even know about each other.That is absolutely insane! Yes, and that is what makes it so compelling to watch. The best reality shows make the audience wonder how they would react in a certain environment, whether it’s who they would vote off a desert island on Survivor, if they can be plucked out of obscurity and achieve fame like on American Idol, or which of three real estate choices they would make on House Hunters. Who among us hasn’t wondered what it would be like to go to prison? How did they film a reality show inside a prison? Sheriff Noel helped them get access, outfitting the pods in his jail with more than 300 high-tech cameras to catch the action. There is also a production crew using the story that they’re making a documentary about first-timers going to jail. They pretend not to know the participants and interview regular inmates as well.Something about this gives me a funny feeling. Yeah, me too, like it’s exploitative of the inmates and a bit morally dicey. Also, the show is too reality show and less documentary for its own good. 60 Days In definitely uses the tricks of the reality trade – deceptive editing, dramatic music, ramping up the “stakes” – to make it more intense. I wish it had a lighter touch when displaying life inside the big house, because it really is fascinating. It’s also really dangerous for these people! That too. There is enough suspense just in the premise alone that the show doesn’t need to ramp it up. And, yes, if things really go badly for one of these people, I think we’re all going to feel awful about watching it on television.What is each episode like? It’s hard to tell because only the first two were made available for review. The premiere is mostly about the people in the program, why they wanted to be a part of the experiment, and the training they get before going inside. The second episode is about their first two days in jail, but mostly focuses on the first three participants to be locked up. So far, both are absolutely riveting, though the second episode much more so. Which of the participants do we like? Tami, a butch lesbian police officer raised in the foster system, and Zac, a Marine who wants to be a DEA agent, are the stars of the show. Because of their experiences, they’re immediately at home in their new environment. On her second day, Tami becomes embroiled in a fight with a bunkmate who stole her shower shoes. Zac, on the other hand, is immediately welcomed into prison life and becomes friends with the “pod boss.” Watching them interact so nimbly is how we hope we could all navigate such a scenario. We’re probably wrong.Which of the participants do we hate? Robert is a teacher who thinks that jail is like a “country club”, and he wants prison reform because he thinks inmates have an easier life than he does. He is a cocky, sarcastic prick with a broad stroke of red state Trumpianism running deep through him. Immediately, the inmates are suspicious, and his preconceived notions of jail are put to the test. The same holds true for Barbra, a 25-year-old stay at home mom who thinks her military husband isn’t get treated as well as these inmates. She also has a difficult adjustment. For liberals such as myself, it’s fun to see these conservatives disabused of their notions of what the world is like very quickly.Who else is in the project? We don’t get to see much of the other three in the first two episodes. Maryam is a social worker who deals with at-risk youth, and she wants to learn more about what they face in prison in order to prevent them from getting there. She is also Mohammed Ali’s daughter. Isaiah is a 19-year-old from a rough neighborhood whose older brother is in jail for drug related crimes. He wants to learn more about the system so he can stay out of it. Jeff is a “mall cop” who was bullied in high school. He who wants to be a corrections officer but needs to prove to himself that he can last in prison. I have the feeling he will not.Should I watch this show? Yes, you should. It is a bit gonzo and questionable, but so much more revelatory about the prison experience than anything I’ve ever seen. There is real danger and real stakes here, and it has the potential to change a lot of people’s minds about what goes on in the American justice system. 