Star Trek Beyond was supposed to be the movie that sent the previously successful JJ Abrams-sponsored reboot programme careering into a black hole. With Abrams having jumped ship to rival space saga Star Wars, and with the rather less illustrious Justin Lin now in command of the USS Enterprise, it was supposed Beyond might fail to reach warp speed. Then there was that unpopular first trailer, hinting that Lin might be taking the saga into Fast-and-Furious-in-space territory.Comic-Con 2016 kicks off with Star Trek Beyond premiere But as with the recent Ghostbusters reboot, we should have waited to see the film for ourselves, instead of listening to all the high-pitched noise coming from the blogosphere. Critics have now overwhelmingly endorsed Lin’s first Trek film. Here is your chance to give your own verdict on its key talking points.The return to traditional Star Trek territoryStar Trek (2009) and Star Trek Into Darkness (2013) are famously unpopular among long-term fans of the franchise. But Star Trek Beyond reverses the paradigm whereby Kirk and his crew are moving ever further away from their 60s roots. Simon Pegg and Doug Jung’s script plays out like a supercharged episode of The Original Series (TOS), with the Enterprise arriving on a mysterious planet where a Federation ship has been left stranded. As on TV, they have to work out what’s going on, who the bad guys are and how to restore natural order in quick sharp time. As on TV, the tension between crew members is used to score gazillions of comedy points. Yes, it’s all part of an epic battle to save the starbase Yorktown from villain Krall’s evil swarm-like weapons of mass destruction. But surely the Trekkies won’t begrudge us a little visual space spectacle to round things off?Star Trek Beyond review – a watchable adventure still heavy on the bromance The primary-coloured Apollo-era optimismChris Pine and Pegg have heavily hinted at Beyond’s liberal agenda in interviews, and it’s hard not to see Idris Elba’s baddie Krall as a symbol of Trumpian, post-Brexit politics, and the Enterprise and the Federation as emblems of open-hearted utopian pluralism. And there is something special about the way Krall’s efforts to destroy Yorktown are defeated by the controlled chaos of the Beastie Boys’ Sabotage, a vivacious blast of punky rap-rock emblematic of the unfettered creativity that, perhaps, only a truly free society can be capable of. Its warm, humanist sonic storm rips through the cold, militaristic cynicism of Krall’s swarm tech like some kind of omnipotent fairy dust. By this point, the Enterprise’s symbolism machine is on warp factor 22.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Pegg: ‘The entire crew would have voted Remain’Sulu’s outingIt may have briefly upset the original Sulu, George Takei, but the Enterprise helmsman’s brief embrace with a male, Asian partner on Yorktown, as Kirk and his crew arrive for shore leave at the beginning of Beyond, is deftly handled. The space station is a bustling metropolis of wildly varying galactic species, and it makes sense that a society this diverse would have no problem with homosexuality. Gene Roddenberry imagined a future where diversity is the norm, and Beyond has lovingly embraced his legacy. Idris Elba’s Krall and that big twistDid you swallow Elba as an alien warlord early on, or was it obvious from the start that Krall had human roots? That big reveal was surely a play on TOS’s traditionally half-arsed efforts at creating believable extra-terrestrials, who always seem to be conveniently humanoid. Was Elba’s impressive performance lost under all that makeup? Or did he successfully disappear into the role? I enjoyed Beyond’s glimpse into Star Trek pre-history, reminding us that before Kirk et al could depart on their five-year mission, the Federation spent centuries bringing order and peace to the galaxy.The BFG, Star Trek Beyond, Chevalier and The Killing$ of Tony Blair reviewed – Film Weekly podcast The tributes and the futureLeonard Nimoy would surely have enjoyed seeing his death incorporated into Beyond’s screenplay, as Zachary Quinto’s Spock Jr (sort of) discovers the date of his own demise. The new movie also pays tribute to Anton Yelchin, who died in a car accident last month, with a simple “for Anton” credit, and Abrams has said the role of ensign Pavel Chekov will not be recast for future movies. We’ll certainly miss those deliberately dodgy cod-Russian consonants, even if the Enterprise’s main navigator wasn’t heavily involved in events this time around.As for Star Trek IV, Beyond touched nicely on Kirk’s continuing angst over the death of his father, which we saw in the opening scenes of the 2009 series opener. Chris Hemsworth will return as George Kirk in the next instalment, when the one-time USS Kelvin first officer will presumably have a lot of explaining to do about how he got away from those rogue Romulans.