The Last Kingdom 9pm, BBC2The quietly impressive historical epic returns for series two. At first glance it looks like Game of Thrones with the handbrake on, but this saga set in ninth-century England is confident in its character-driven power struggles and doesn’t need lashings of flesh and blood to satisfy. Tonight, cocky swordsman Uhtred (Alexander Dreymon) confidently clops north into Danish-held territory, where the prophecy of a saviour king is something he might work to his own gain. Jack SealeWhat Do Artists Do All Day8.30pm, BBC4“I’m just showing the wealthy,” Scottish photographer Dougie Wallace says of the well-heeled subjects of “Harrodsburg”, his new series on the super-rich of Knightsbridge and Chelsea. But he’s doing it, he says, to “highlight issues like food banks in Glasgow”. This follows Wallace as he puts the finishing touches to his provocative works, as startling in their way as his former studies of Blackpool stag and hen parties. Ali CatterallSmile! The Nation’s Family Album 9pm, BBC4An ingenious social history, extrapolated from the most ordinary of modern habits: the family photo. The film makes the case that it’s not merely pictures that are telling historical documents but also the technology that captures them, from Box Brownies to smartphoneas. Families prise open their albums to reflect on how our photographs have changed, and how photography has changed us. Andrew MuellerThe Great Pottery Throw Down8pm, BBC2As is customary in all TV competitions of this ilk, things seriously move up a rung as next week’s final looms. While last week the potters were charged with making Russian dolls, tonight the final four have got to fashion fully functioning toilets, in a challenge that’s as much about engineering as it is pottery. Cue a wonderful week for innuendo spotters, as Keith and Kate scrutinise rims, bottoms and cracks aplenty. Hannah J DaviesPrime Suspect 1973 9pm, ITVThis Jane Tennison origin story still struggles to convince, relying too heavily on music, clothes and sideburns and too little on evocative and subtle writing to evoke the temper of its times. Tonight, the case against the Collins parents hardens but still feels like a red herring. Elsewhere, Cliff Bentley’s out of nick and plotting further mischief – with or without his errant son. Passably watchable but still lazy television in terms of both conception and execution. Phil HarrisonJohn Bishop: In Conversation With Lindsay Lohan 9pm, WBishop’s week-long Nightly Show gig on ITV might not see him join James Corden in the US talkshow firmament, but the affable Liverpudlian does have a new series of these conversational interviews, too. His first guest is Lindsay Lohan, a respectably big name with whom to launch the series and a celebrity with plenty of interesting ground to cover. Expect Bishop’s gentle probing and digressive wit to produce a few revelations. Mark Gibbings-JonesSamurai Jack 12midnight, FoxAfter a 13-year furlough, a rather unexpected return for the cult cartoon about a time-displaced ronin slicing up demons in a hellish future dystopia. The original Samurai Jack ran for four seasons from 2001 and so impressed George Lucas that he hired creator Genndy Tartakovsky to oversee a (never-bettered) Star Wars animated spin-off. This belated fifth season features Tartakovsky’s trademark exuberant action sequences staged with style and wit. Graeme VirtueFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Revolutionary zeal still burns … Lola Créton in Something in the Air. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarSomething in the Air (Oliver Assayas, 2012) 1.15am, Film4Writer-director Assayas turns an indulgent eye on his youth following the incendiary events of May 1968. This is set three years later in Paris, where revolutionary zeal still burns and the art school-bound 17-year-old Gilles (Clément Métayer) joins demonstrations and guerrilla action while furthering his studies and meeting girls. A glib but affectionate portrait of a talented young man living in a febrile age. Paul HowlettLive sportHorse Racing: Cheltenham festival 1pm, ITV. The third day of the National Hunt festival.Europa League Football: Manchester United v FC Rostov 7.30pm, BT Sport 2. The second leg of the last-16 fixture from Old Trafford, with United dreaming of a cup double.Test Cricket: India v Australia 3.50am, Sky Sports 2. The second day of the third Test from Ranchi.