I was disappointed that in his review of Anthony Briggs’s new translation of Yevgeny Onegin (Review, 13 February), Nicholas Lezard omits all mention of the recent and brilliant translation by the late Stanley Mitchell. He has of course his reasons for praising Briggs, but to ignore Mitchell’s achievement is an injustice to a remarkable translator. A decent respect for translators is sadly rare: in her review of Han Kang’s Human Acts, Eimear McBride doesn’t even name Deborah Smith, without whose rare knowledge of Korean, English-speaking readers would have no access to Han Kang’s work. Donald RayfieldEmeritus professor of Russian and Georgian, Queen Mary University of London• I am sorry to read that David Harewood was in a deep depression and considered giving up acting, (CIA rescue: Homeland saved actor from lorries, 16 February) but is it appropriate to refer to him as being “saved” from being a lorry driver? To be a lorry driver you have be licensed after passing rigorous tests, commonly having trained at your own expense, and you have to undertake ongoing training. It is a responsible and often stressful job which is essential to the functioning of our society. The acting profession might well have been poorer without David Harewood’s input but lorry driving is also an honourable career worthy of respect.Janet MearnsLondon• We shall particularly miss the Independent on Sunday’s annual publication of The Happy List (Letters, 15 February). Begun in 2008 and hailed as an antidote to the Sunday Times Rich List, it acknowledged the unsung army of ordinary people who, by their deeds, make Britain a better balanced, happier country. It was also a relief to read good news in the media. Perhaps the Guardian could follow suit?Carole ColemanHalifax, West Yorkshire• I note that Stephen Fry has quit Twitter, again (Report, 16 February). Surely it is now time for him to try writing a letter to the letters page, where he will find, by contrast, edited and reasoned debate.Keith FlettLondon• Doubtless we should all be in awe of the fact that “we have seen ripples in space-time!” (Gravitational waves, 12 February), but is it actually possible “to have a whole new picture … of the stuff that doesn’t emit light” as Prof Neil Turok claims? Surely that’s the deceit of any black mass?Fr Alec MitchellManchester• In response to the danger of banging on about the big bang (Letters, 15 February) let’s not claim either that we were specially created by an omnipotent being. A modicum of humility is all I ask.David PhillipsBarnard Castle, County Durham • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com