Baby DriverEdgar Wright’s latest is a departure in many ways: his first film to shoot in the US, his first non-com – and we don’t see Simon Pegg or Nick Frost listed anywhere in the credits. Instead, Ansel Elgort plays a near-mute, tinnitus-suffering getaway driver who uses his headphones to drown out the ringing, and jobs for a mob boss to pay for petrol. Jamie Foxx and Jon Hamm co-star. The Coldest CityCharlize Theron, James McAvoy and inevitably, Toby Jones, are spies in Berlin around the time of the fall of the wall in this chilly-looking adaptation of the Antony Johnston nailbiter. Eddie Marsan and John Goodman pop up as support. The CommuterAKA Taken on a Train. This Liam Neeson vehicle is directed by Jaume Collet-Serra, who was onboard for Unknown (2011), Non-Stop (2014), and Run All Night (2015) – and also for possibly the best work of Neeson’s co-star Vera Farmiga, genius horror Orphan (2009). Neeson plays an insurance salesman who must suddenly employ a very special set of skills to uncover the identity of a mysterious stranger on his train before the final stop – lest everyone onboard dies. Sam Neill, Elizabeth McGovern, Patrick Wilson and Florence Pugh are among the possible red herrings.A Cure for Wellness    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Dane DeHaan takes an enforced break at Celia Imrie’s creepy spa (head doctor: Jason Isaacs). The trailer for Gore Verbinski’s latest promises a smorgasbord of shocks. FlatlinersMr Robot director Niels Arden Oplev takes the reins on this remake of the 1990 medical student classic, this time round starring Ellen Page and Diego Luna – plus original lead Kiefer Sutherland, this time as a sinister doc. ItFor six years Cary Fukunaga worked on this adaptation of the Stephen King child-killing clown horror; he’s still on board but Andrés Muschietti, the Argentine film-maker behind genuinely spooky Mama is directing. Bill (son of Stellan) Skarsgård is Pennywise, Jaeden Lieberher (the kid from St Vincent and Midnight Special) Bill Denbrough.The Mummy   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The Mummy trailer: watch Tom Cruise die in monster reboot – videoThe sound-effects-free trailer for this Tom Cruise adventure has already given it a shot of publicity even the official trailer couldn’t manage. The first in Universal’s new monsters universe movies, this stars Cruise as an explorer who comes back to life after a plane crash, plus Russell Crowe as friendly physician Dr Henry Jekyll. Red SparrowJennifer Lawrence teams up with Hunger Games director Francis Lawrence once more for this story of “a sexy Russian spy who falls for a CIA officer and considers becoming a double agent”. We’re guessing Lawrence is the erotic Ruskie and Joel Egerton the Yank. But we’d almost prefer it if it were co-stars Jeremy Irons or Matthias Schoenaerts.The Siege Following the wobble of Assassin’s Creed, Justin Kurzel returns with the real-life story of a team of the Pakistani militants Lashkar-e-Taiba who killed 31 people in a terrorist attack at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel in Mumbai in 2008. The involvement of Michael Fassbender and Marion Cotillard (who have starred in his last two films) has not yet been confirmed. Suburbicon Joel and Ethan Coen wrote this mystery soon after the release of Blood Simple. Why it’s taken 31 years to hit the big screen, and with George Clooney directing rather than them, we’re not sure. But still, this looks very promising – a 50s-set suburban crime thriller about a picture-perfect family who employ brutal revenge after a burglary turns fatal. Coen regulars Matt Damon, Julianne Moore, Josh Brolin and Oscar Isaac star. War for the Planet of the Apes    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The most brutal-looking monkey movie ever promo’d, Matt Reeves’s follow-up to Dawn of the Planet of the Apes sees the return of Andy Serkis’s Caesar, this time facing off in an epic battle against a vicious colonel, played by Woody Harrelson. Under the Silver Lake David Robert Mitchell follows acclaimed horror It Follows with a contemporary LA noir about the kidnapping of a billionaire’s daughter. Andrew Garfield stars, with Jimmi Simpson (House of Cards), Riley Keough (American Honey), Topher Grace and Girls’ Zosia Mamet on back-up.Wind RiverShortly to premiere at Sundance, Taylor Sheridan (who wrote Sicario and Hell or High Water) directs the story of an FBI agent who teams up with a local game tracker to investigate a killing at a Native American reservation. Avengers co-stars Elizabeth Olsen and Jeremy Renner star; support includes Jon Bernthal.