Series one of The Grand Tour has now come to an end. And while it might seem needless to hold an awards ceremony for a little show that struggles to be part of any meaningful conversation any more, that’s exactly what I’m going to do.Best episodeAs with Top Gear, the best Grand Tour episodes have been the ones where the hosts stop clinging to the magazine format for dear life and cut loose a little. As a result, the high point of the series was undoubtedly the two-part Namibian travelogue. Racing across Africa in beach buggies gave Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May space to breathe and allowed some of their most naturalistic interplay for years. This is exactly what every episode of The Grand Tour should be.Worst episodeAgain, as with Top Gear, The Grand Tour has shown a disappointing willingness to fall back on formula and churn out less-than-great copies of itself again and again. The low point of the series was probably episode 10, which contained another hammily overworked film where Nothing Went Right Again, another road test of an alienatingly expensive car, and another sludgy morass of sub-pub blokey banter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Hammond with something probably about to go wrong. Photograph: Ellis O'Brien/Publicity imageMost valuable playerJames May seems to have a slightly reduced role on The Grand Tour. It feels like he’s reached the point in his life where, instead of trying to keep up with the try-hard death-by-banter opinion-spew of Clarkson and Hammond, he’s happy to stay back and bide his time until he’s worked out the perfect interjection. When he does pipe up – to mock Brexit, to admit that he doesn’t eat red meat, to call cars stupid – it’s usually pin-sharp and contrary. Also, he presents The Reassembler, which is a trillion times better than The Grand Tour, so that helps.Least valuable playerWith the Stig now shackled to the sinking sailboat that is the BBC’s half-dead Top Gear, The Grand Tour needed a replacement driver. That replacement was The American; an American racing driver who does lap times in high-performance cars while burping out faux-Clarkson anti-witticisms about how bad non-American cars are. He’s a one-joke character without a joke, and I’ll be amazed if he’s back next series.Most missed Top Gear segmentI’ve probably written more words than anyone else alive about the show-killing tedium of Top Gear’s Star in a Reasonably Priced Car. And yet, after 13 episodes of The Grand Tour, I find myself missing it ever so slightly. Not because I enjoy watching famous people drive around a racetrack – because that will forever be about as entertaining as slow-motion grout inspection – but because it was a moment in the show where we got to hear a different voice. If there’s a way for this programme to incorporate the occasional guest next time around, it absolutely should.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stonewash denim required … the trio at the racetrack with more alienatingly expensive cars. Photograph: Roderick Fountain/Amazon/PAMost wrongly retained Top Gear segmentOh Jesus Christ, the reviews. It’s telling that the worst aspect of The Grand Tour is the most Top Gearish one. With the exception of the travelogues and today’s final episode, there’s a bit at the start of every show where one of the hosts will review a car that nobody can afford. First they’ll say it’s rubbish. Then they’ll take off traction control, look into the camera, growl “but take a look at this”, and then we all have to sit through five minutes of them skidding around a track while making low-frequency noises of self-gratification. In every possible way – content, photography, execution – The Grand Tour’s car reviews are stuck in a creative rut, and it seems terminal. Either find a new and interesting way of doing them, or bin them completely.Most spectacularly harrowing sartorial misstepThis is perhaps the toughest category of all, but it’s just snatched by James May’s sky blue patchwork linen blazer from last week’s episode. There is a vague possibility that the blazer would have looked good on someone else, but May’s decision to pair it with some similarly coloured stonewash jeans ended up making him look like a version of Justin Timberlake from an alternate universe where, on the way back from the 2001 American Music awards, he was mugged, force-fed cakes, thrown in a river and discovered three months later by a petrified child. Runner-up: Jeremy Clarkson’s gap year bangles. Third place: Literally anything worn by anyone onscreen, even momentarily, throughout the entire series.