Rita Ora has quit The X Factor after appearing for just one season.With both Cheryl Fernandez-Versini and Nick Grimshaw having left the ITV talent show, the only judge now remaining from the 2015 lineup is Simon Cowell.Ora tweeted: “I had a ball on @TheXFactor last year and will miss the team.”Rita Ora (@RitaOra)I had a ball on @TheXFactor last year and will miss the team.May 10, 2016Simon Cowell praises BBC's Countryfile, but says BGT is 'biggest show on planet' She also addressed a message to Cowell, writing: “Can’t wait to work with you again ... I’ll be round for dinner soon. Thank you for the experience & love X.”Rita Ora (@RitaOra)@simoncowell can't wait to work with you again... I'll be round for dinner soon. Thank you for the experience & love XMay 10, 2016 An X Factor spokesman said: “Rita brought a great energy to the show last year and did a brilliant job mentoring the girls’ category, leading Louisa to victory. “We wish her all the best with her music and film plans for the rest of the year.”  The 25-year-old singer joined last year’s series of The X Factor after moving over from The Voice UK. Ora mentored the “girls” category and went on to win the show with her act, Louisa Johnson. The Poison star’s exit follows last month’s news that Fernandez-Versini will not be returning as a judge. She quit in April to focus on her music career, saying in a statement: “I have learnt so much and enjoyed nurturing talent but I’ve missed making music and am excited to be recording again.” Radio DJ Grimshaw had already quit as a judge, while the show’s presenters, Caroline Flack and Olly Murs, also confirmed they would not return. Dermot O’Leary to return to The X Factor after a year away Flack and Murs’s exit made way for the return of X Factor favourite Dermot O’Leary, who confirmed in March that he was coming back to the show. The 42-year-old said he was “excited to be back” as presenter after a year away from the job. O’Leary, who had been a mainstay of the show for eight years, left in 2015, saying it was “time for me to move on”. However, he agreed to return, saying: “I’m very flattered to be asked back to The X Factor, and am currently dusting off my dancing shoes.” 