That Ripper Street – the show they couldn’t kill – returns to Amazon Prime today is undoubtedly a good thing, but somehow celebration seems inappropriate. Because with the show comes calamity, doom and a darkness as murky and unremitting as anything on TV. As big-tent television such as The X Factor, Great British Bake Off and Call the Midwife rakes in the ratings, Ripper Street made its name being challenging, foreboding and often downright nasty. Its debut series established that this period piece was no Merchant Ivory knockoff aimed at an international market that gobbles up Downton Abbey, Wolf Hall and Mister Selfridge like honey-dipped Scooby Snacks. No coming-out balls, romantic entanglements with counts or surprise inheritances here – Ripper Street mired itself deep in the cholera outbreaks, child gangs and slavery rings of late-Victorian London and flourished gleefully in the filth.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The core three characters ply their trade out of the H-Division station that notoriously drew a blank investigating the Ripper murders. Uptight, grief-wrought Detective Inspector Edmund Reid (Matthew Macfadyen), violence-haunted war veteran Detective Sergeant Bennet Drake (Jerome Flynn) and the brilliant but feckless boozehound surgeon Captain Homer Jackson (Adam Rothenberg) form an imposing crew, even if their personal lives are a three-car pileup. MyAnna Buring’s Long Susan provides staunch support – the ballsy madame a ruthlessly ambitious stalwart in E1.Series two saw it get bolder. Agonies were heightened, stakes raised and in Jedediah Shine (Joseph Mawle), an authentically frightening villain unearthed for whom no depravity seemed off-limits. When it came to ratings though, it was no match for the idiot magnet I’m a Celebrity that it bravely faced off against each week like a man turning up to a gunfight armed with a feather duster. The audience dwindled, last orders were called and the BBC got shot of one of its strongest dramas.Enter those kindly cutthroat angel investors Amazon Prime for a third series that raised its game further, making it one of those rare shows that has managed to get better as it goes along. It kicked off with a rail disaster that killed 55, a catastrophe whose shockwaves surged through the rest of the season. As we finished last year we left Edmund retired to Margate beach with his daughter Mathilda, Drake freshly hitched and Jackson and Susan about to become the East End’s most dysfunctional parental unit (at least until the Brannings arrive). With Mathilda returned to Edmund and a heartwarming marriage for Drake to his beloved Rose, you might think Ripper Street had gone soft. As we rejoin the show today in the summer of 1897 – Queen Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee – might we expect a kinder, gentler Whitechapel this time around? I wouldn’t hold your breath. Still, we are allowed some optimism. H-Division isn’t some unchanging ninth circle of hell. Susan may have killed 55 innocent train passengers, but she did so trying to improve the lot of Whitechapel residents (“the children of the east, of the docksides, highways, rookeries and laneways” in the memorable phrasing of the show’s newspaperman Fred Best). Much like Deadwood – a show whose influence on creator Richard Warlow is clear – we see civilisation slowly emerging from the muck, horseshit and chaos. Susan’s philanthropy, Miss Goren’s orphanage and the critical early victory for unionised labour that was the London matchgirls’ strike are glimpses of a better world to come. It’s a painful process, but as its doggedly loyal fans already know, it’s worth it.