Three more cats have been found decapitated in south London in a single day, in what appear to be the latest victims of a suspected serial attacker.The headless bodies of were discovered on Sunday, according to local animal rescue campaigners, in the same part of the capital where up to 50 pets have been mutilated. One body, found in Thornton Heath on Sunday morning, belonged to a black cat, while a white and ginger Tom named Barney was found in Mottingham later that day. A spokesperson for South Norwood Animal Rescue and Liberty (Snarl), which has been collecting reports of pet killings across south London, told the Guardian a third victim was found in Northolt on the same day. The rescue centre says it is aware of about 50 similar cases in the past two to three years that bear the hallmarks of the current mutilations. It is also investigating a further 80-100 other reports of animal deaths, including rabbit and fox killings, that it suspects may also be linked. Barney’s owner, who asked to be identified as Danielle, said her pet had been 22 months old. She added: “[He] a much loved and loving cat who adored his family and they, him. He loved chasing and being chased around the garden by the children, meeting and greeting his human Dad when he came home from work.“He enjoyed sitting proudly on a perch above, and next to, the front door of his home, his lush tummy fur blowing the in breeze as he surveyed his territory. At night, he would curl up under his human Mum’s arm and go to sleep, content and purring. He was a kind, clever, funny cat who deserved to live his life in peace with his family.”The cat’s body was collected by staff from Snarl, which had also been contacted by a member of the public who found the black cat earlier in the day. It has not been identified because it was not microchipped. Separately, the RSPCA has 20 cases that have been investigated by its vets. It told the Observer: “Examination of the bodies we have received showed that the heads and tails appear to have been removed by a human. A dedicated team is continuing to work closely with the police and looking into all evidence to see if there is deliberate cruelty involved.”The Metropolitan police has been investigating the killings for several months, but declined to comment.