The stories play out above and around us: vast, full-colour 3D projections that dance across towering gum trees as we walk among them.Shadows of birds – hundreds of them – fly across the canopy, squawks swarming in surround sound. A serpent the size of 15 trees slithers from my left to my right, and 20-foot-tall numbats scurry and flick their tails, before the playful music turns ominous. A bushfire sends embers floating across the trees and painted geckos scurrying down their trunks, and then the storm arrives. Perth International Arts festival opened on Friday night with a spectacular and surprising call to arms. 12,000 people braved bad weather to stream into Kings Park, one of the world’s largest inner-city parks, for the festival’s major free event: Boorna Waanginy (“the trees speak”), which will repeat for two nights only. Perth festival to transform Kings Park into high-tech light and sound show Directed by Nigel Jamieson, and developed in collaboration with representatives of the region’s Noongar people alongside scientists, botanists, community groups and school children, the $1 million installation comprises 30 tonnes of equipment, 270 light fixtures and 117 speakers. It was billed as “a cathedral of light, sound and imagery to explore the biodiversity and beauty of south-western Australia” – but in light of recent events, it felt less like a celebration than a warning.Only days before, the Australian government had laughed off impending environmental catastrophe, passing around a lump of coal and cradling it lovingly through question time. The “coal comeback” is being championed in the middle of a record-breaking heatwave and energy crisis, with renewable energy incorrectly being blamed for blackouts and price hikes. In this context, the urgent message of Boorna Waanginy rings loud and horrifyingly clear.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The urgent message of Boorna Waanginy rings loud and horrifyingly clear’: Numbats play across the gums. Photograph: Perth festival We amble through the 700-metre avenue of red-flowering gums, transformed with 3D mapped projections and music, poetry and stories in Indigenous languages and English, which tell of the six Noongar seasons. We find ourselves on a landing, watching light paint the trees and listening to the voice of celebrated conservation biologist Stephen Hopper. Kings Park is home to the Western Australian botanic garden and over 3,000 species of the state’s unique flora, and Hopper directed the park for 12 years. He tells us that most of what we know now about south-western Australia – the unique biodiversity; the rising sea levels; the environmental dangers – has been known for hundreds of years. “Noongar oral history has always been there, and Western science is slowly converging on a similar understanding,” he says. Hopper has been collaborating with Noongar elder Noel Nannup for years, the pair hoping to bring Western and ancient cultures together to work towards their shared aim of preservation. We hear how the earth was born, how life evolved and how man arrived, from both perspectives. The stories might differ between the cultures, but the theme is the same: the interconnectivity of life brought us to where we are, and it needs to be preserved.It’s a family-friendly event, and children are everywhere. They sprawl below another canopy to learn of Jindalee and the Spirit Children, and the creation of the Milky Way which brought colour to the world. They are told of the Yilgarn Craton, one of the first masses of rock to rise out of the sea, which now holds most of Western Australia, including the banksia woodlands. “No place on earth has taken longer to develop,” Noel Nannup narrates. “But in this tiny sliver of a moment we call a day, we risk losing it.”Hard facts unmask the fiction behind Coalition's 'coal comeback' | Lenore Taylor  And that’s when things get dark. With all the subtlety of a record scratch, the music is broken by news reports of the threats of urban sprawl on the banksia woodlands – one of the most important ecosystems along the Swan Coastal Plain, which itself is part of one of the most important biodiversity hotspots in the world. Children hold their parents’ hands and watch the display as they hear that, post-European settlement, Australia has had the highest level of mammal extinction of anywhere in the world. Through a break in the trees, the bright city skyline is visible, and two brands scream out from the top of tall buildings: BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto. With its heavy-handed message of environmentalism, Boorna Waanginy is a particularly audacious event to open the city’s festival, which counts among its major partners Rio Tinto and Chevron, and which is the crown in the cultural calendar of Australia’s mining state.We continue along the path. Glass jars, lit from above, hang from the trees like lanterns, containing threatened species preserved in yellow liquid. A voice lists local wildlife that is now endangered – “the slender tailflower; the bindoon starbush...” – and we hear the voices of farmers and residents who have watched the land change over decades: the swans are gone, the mushrooms are dying, the gum trees have been felled, the dams are dried out.First we were shown how much the land has given us, and now we’re confronted with how much has been lost.In the welcome to country on Friday night, Noongar elder Leisha Eatts told of the totem of her grandmother’s tribe which has been passed down to her: the kwiyar frog. Like many other Indigenous Australian cultures, the Noongar people practice a totemic spirituality, with clans and families inheriting emblems that link them to their past and connect them to each other.That idea is one that Hopper and Nannup believe should be shared by Western cultures too: if each person could pledge to protect just one species, they argue, we could save the biodiversity of the region. In the months leading to Boorna Waanginy, around 1,400 school children in Western Australia, along with local community groups, adopted their own totems – endangered species of flora and fauna – to learn about and pledge to protect. And in the grand finale, we land upon a natural amphitheatre spilling with 1,400 lanterns; children involved in the Seeds of Change project had made lanterns to represent their totem and their commitment to protect endangered species, to learn about the land and to embrace both the biological and cultural heritage of where they live. Their faces projected onto a sculpture of a giant native seed, they spoke of what they had learned, and the world they wanted to work towards. It was a welcome and powerful message of hope at the end of another troubling week.• Boorna Waanginy at Perth festival is a free event which continues on 11 and 12 February, from 8-10.30pm at King’s Park. Guardian Australia was a guest of Perth festival