Much like the felines from which she draws inspiration, it would be fair to say that Catwoman tends to split opinion. For every memory of Michelle Pfeiffer’s purring PVC-clad kitty, or Anne Hathaway’s slinky, stylish real-world cat burglar, there are those who recall Halle Berry’s cheesy, basketball-playing, milk-supping Patience Phillips iteration, which still stands as one of the most painful renderings of a classic comic-book icon in Hollywood history. Worse still, the execrable 2004 effort is almost entirely responsible for the view among studio executives that female-led superhero movies are bad for business – which in turn is the reason Patty Jenkins’ upcoming Wonder Woman will be the first film of its kind to hit multiplexes in more than a decade.You might wonder then, why Sienna Miller is willing to risk her resurgent career on portraying Catwoman in the new DC Extended Universe (DCEU), especially given the critical hammering handed out to early efforts Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice and Suicide Squad. For, according to a tweet over the weekend from Erik Davis, managing editor of US ticketing site Fandango, the British actor is so keen to pull on the fake leathers that she’s willing to write her own part for Ben Affleck’s upcoming solo movie The Batman.ErikDavis (@ErikDavis)Sienna Miller told me tonight that she wants to play Catwoman in Affleck's Batman movie. "She's not in the script but I wanna write her in!"November 19, 2016Davis’s tweet also suggests Affleck has no intention of including Selina Kyle, the original, classic Catwoman, in his movie. But that doesn’t mean she won’t turn up further down the line, and most likely in a rather different form to the one in which we last saw her on the big screen, in Hathaway’s elegant portrayal in Christopher Nolan’s The Dark Knight Rises.For if there’s one thing we do know about the DCEU, it’s that, for better or for worse, this is a universe in which superpowers and the supernatural are firmly back on the table following the more realistic rendering of Gotham and its inhabitants in Nolan’s films. Any film series that can find room for villains spawned from zombie General Zod and Lex Luthor’s DNA (Dawn of Justice’s Doomsday), and an ancient, apparently immortal witch (Cara Delevingne’s Enchantress in Suicide Squad) is hardly going to balk at a little feline reincarnation. Expect to see a Catwoman whose alter ego is once again spawned when she is murdered by her boss: it’s the version filmgoers know best, and has that frisson of freakiness that has so far been the DCEU’s one defining characteristic.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Is Miller the right woman for the job? Well, why not? She’s back in the limelight following a celebrated turn in American Sniper and has a role in Affleck’s forthcoming thriller Live By Night. If the 44-year-old actor-director does bring back Batman’s on-off lover, he’ll probably want to cast somebody in at least their mid-30s (Miller is 34), as picking anyone younger would be creepy.The British actor should perhaps be wary, however. Catwoman almost killed Berry’s career, only two years after she won an Oscar for her performance in Monster’s Ball. Margot Robbie and Amy Adams haven’t suffered from taking underwritten roles as Harley Quinn and Lois Lane in Dawn of Justice and Suicide Squad, but Delevingne is surely kicking herself for ever agreeing to play gyrating villain Enchantress in the latter. Could Margot Robbie's all-female superhero movie be DC's trump card? Moreover, the DCEU’s position on Gotham’s female superheroes is unclear. Will it ultimately adopt the empowering perspective that typified comic-book writer Gail Simone’s pioneering run on Batgirl, or slip into the tired, sexist tropes of the likes of Frank Miller – whose defining act on the seminal 1987 graphic novel Batman: Year One was to reimagine Kyle as a prostitute? Affleck, judging by his recent output, is unlikely to continue the policy of objectification that led to so many complaints about Quinn’s treatment in Suicide Squad, and there has been talk of a Robbie-led all-female superhero movie featuring Quinn, Batgirl, Birds of Prey, Poison Ivy, Katana and Bumblebee. But the jury remains out.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The best versions of Catwoman over the years have always been sexy but empowered. Bob Kane, Batman’s creator, said he modelled Kyle’s costume on a cat because he wanted the character to be “cool, detached, and unreliable … as hard to understand as women are”. But as sexist as such a reading seems in 2016, it is this wily duplicity that makes Catwoman so intriguing. She is very much her own kitty cat, with her own compulsions and desires. To Batman, Kyle’s unwillingness to toe the line may seem like a mark of deceit, but to Selina herself it is simply sensible self-interest.As such, Catwoman would surely make a welcome addition to the DCEU. Let us hope she gets her ninth life on the big screen sooner rather than later.