Troilus and Cressida is arguably the most cynical of Shakespeare’s plays – a cynicism born of its setting during the protracted Trojan war of Greek myth. It focuses on the love affair of Troilus and Cressida who, just after they consummate their love, are forced to accept their separation, as Cressida is handed over to the Greeks thanks to the treachery of her father. It also explores the peevishness of the Greeks, whose mighty warrior Achilles is refusing to fight because he feels slighted. The Greeks come off as fantastically pragmatic and the Trojans are somewhat more civilised and flexible.I directed the play for Tara Arts in a co-production with Contact theatre in Manchester in 1993. At the time, the biggest political news was the breakup of the former Yugoslavia – and inherent in that breakup was a hitherto multicultural society under threat. I made the Trojans multicultural, in terms of the casting but also in the languages I used. There was the English text of Shakespeare himself, but we also made use of Hindi and of French, the backgrounds of the people involved. The Greeks were presented in a much more straightforward way. I was lamenting the fall of Troy (echoing the fall of multicultural Sarajevo) and my staging sought to express that lament. William Shakespeare's handwritten plea for refugees to go online My approach to the play was quite physical. We developed martial movements based on classical Indian dance, with accompanying rhythms provided by bamboo sticks striking the wooden stage floor. There was a news report at the time of a young couple in Sarajevo – a Muslim and a Christian – who had desperately tried to maintain their love affair during the siege of the city and paid tragically for it. This seemed to me to strike at the heart of Troilus and Cressida – what war does to individuals, particularly young people. Suddenly these borders come up and they cannot maintain the lives that they were imagining for themselves. Trapped in the enemy Greek camp, Cressida, played by Yogesh Bhatt, finally succumbs to her new reality, crying out: “Troilus, farewell! One eye yet looks on thee / But with my heart the other eye doth see.” I had chosen Yogesh, a man, to play Cressida because I wanted to challenge the easier reading of the “weaker sex” that Cressida can otherwise offer.I thought one of the most poignant moments was the death of Hector – the greatest warrior among the Trojans, who knew they were fighting a wrong cause and yet felt honour-bound to champion his people. In some ways that death seems to sum up this clash of ways of looking at the world between the Greeks and the Trojans. I had him placed in a ring of fire. The fire was lit to signify his death and at that point the Trojans assembled around him and showered him with rice. There was a twofold sense to it: the civilisation of Troy and what it represented going up in flames, but rice is also the food of life, so possibly something else could emerge from it.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Watch a video on how actors from Shakespeare’s Globe took Hamlet to refugees in Calais In England, Shakespeare quite rightly has enormous status, but what comes with it is a sense that “we know best”. Yet when we look at Shakespeare over the centuries some of the best versions have been foreign versions. They’ve given us another insight into Shakespeare. It gets a lot more vexed when the foreignness is within. We at Tara were not a foreign troupe coming and doing the whole text in a foreign language; we were and are British with foreign connections and with other languages. It seems to me that’s one of the great challenges in England at the moment. There is a multiplicity of languages and also therefore a multiplicity of ways of looking at the world, which clearly have a bearing on playing Shakespeare. And yet Shakespeare is still bedevilled by conventions of how the language is to be approached – the “RP” (received pronunciation) approach. Such unspoken rules of the game are being challenged (rightly so) by the new sounds of English spoken by migrants and refugees today.RP or OP? That is the question Today we are facing what was latent in the 90s, which is the rise of a particular kind of fundamentalism and the threat it poses to a sensibility of multiculturalism. We see that in all walks of life – in responses to the migrant crisis, for example, both here and across in Europe. If I were to do Troilus and Cressida again today I think I would be making similar decisions. There is a kind of culture that the Trojans represented that is much more consonant with what one would ideally want our lives to be, where we are crossing borders of language and culture.