Fishing Impossible 7.30pm, ITVSoggy Sunday mornings plonked atop a foldaway chair, sandwiches going stale while nothing happens very slowly? Hardly. A trio of renegade rodsmiths undertake a quest to net Earth’s trickiest catches, with the first episode taking the assembly of anglers to British Columbia in search of the elusive Coho salmon. Competition for that particular catch is a step beyond fellow fishermen boasting bigger rods – the rivals for this piscine prize are actually several dozen grizzly bears instead. Mark Gibbing-JonesThe Hairy Bikers’ Chicken and Egg 8pm, BBC2Our hirsute hosts have limited their palate rather significantly for their latest global jaunt. For reasons unknown (but maybe justified by our consumption of nearly one billion chickens per year in the UK), they’re concentrating solely on chicken and egg dishes. They’ll be off to the US, France and north Africa, but not before making the perfect roast chicken in the UK (brine it the night before) and making a rib-sticking chicken pudding. Hardly their most inspiring concept. Ben ArnoldOne Of Us 9pm, BBC1This four-part, star-studded drama can’t quite seem to decide whether it’s a deep-delving psychological examination of a dreadful dilemma or a glorified game of Cluedo. In this penultimate episode, the families of the murdered honeymoon couple come under further pressure from the police regarding Lee’s disappearance. Meanwhile, Peter is driven to utter despair and Claire makes an alarming discovery rewatching Adam and Grace’s wedding video. David StubbsAll Together Now: The Great Orchestra Challenge 9pm, BBC4Access all arias: Katie Derham’s quest to find the UK’s best amateur orchestra continues, with the four remaining ensembles tasked with accompanying opera singers. Can the plucky part-timers master Puccini and Bizet? The results are occasionally sublime, while the settings are refreshingly non-glam – judges Paul Daniel and Chi-chi Nwanoku deliberate in the sort of concert hall-adjacent alleys where percussionists usually slope off for a fag. Graeme VirtueMotherland 10pm, BBC2Essentially Mumsnet: the sitcom, an utterly hysterical and bracingly honest look at the messy business of motherhood. Diane (“Cunk”) Morgan, Lucy Punch and Anna Maxwell Martin are by turns chaotic, uber-competitive and Not Coping Very Well (“I really want the children to be brought up like I was – by my mother”) in this delicious one-off from the combined writing talents of Graham and Helen Linehan, Sharon Horgan and Holly Walsh. Fingers crossed for a series. Ali CatterallWolf Creek 10pm, FoxRarely has the sun-baked grandeur of the Australian outback seemed so scary. Having narrowly escaped serial killer Mick Taylor (John Jarratt), Eve Thorogood (Lucy Fry) has gone from hunted to hunter as she seeks revenge. Trouble is, everyone Eve meets seems to be out to get her, even a local cop in the town of Kutyukutyu. She needs to toughen up – and fast. A psychological horror that’s rarely subtle but delivers a sense of menace with aplomb. Jonathan WrightThe Bastard Executioner 10pm, HistoryThe 14th-century Welsh drama continues along its merrily bloodthirsty way. The Bastard Executioner was clearly looking to tap into the post-Game Of Thrones appetite for medieval violence, but sadly FX couldn’t be persuaded to give it more than one season. Still, at its best, it packs a considerable punch. Tonight, Lady Love discovers an unexpected ally, while the tormented, embattled Wilkin continues to plot revenge against the perfidious Ventris. Phil HarrisonFilm choiceHancock (Peter Berg, 2008) 9pm, Comedy CentralWill Smith gives his rebellious streak full rein in this entertaining spin on the superhero movie. His Hancock is a jaded, boozy, uber-cynical disappointment to Lycra-clad do-gooders everywhere, until PR consultant Jason Bateman persuades him to sharpen up his act. Most of the fun is in the first half, before an angsty relationship with Bateman’s wife (Charlize Theron) develops. Paul HowlettLive sportCycling: Tour Of Britain The latest stage of the road race – Congleton to Tatton Park, Knutsford. 1pm, ITV4Tennis: The US Open Men’s and women’s singles quarter-finals at Flushing Meadows. 4.30pm, Eurosport 1World Cup Football: Switzerland v Portugal The European champions visit Basel to begin their next campaign. 7.40pm, Sky Sports 1