PremieresMad TVYes, this is a revival of the Fox sketch comedy show that ran on Saturday nights for 14 years until 2009. But other than it being a sketch comedy show, almost everything else has changed. It’s number two on the CW on Tuesday nights during prime time. Producers say that former cast members will join the eight new comics as guest stars, reviving some of their most famous characters. Is now the time to ask to see a bit more of Stuart, Bon Qui Qui and Miss Swan? The CW, Tuesday 26 June at 9pm ETSharknado 4: The 4th Awakens   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This schlockfest is getting to be a new summer tradition, like getting a bad sunburn, itching all the mosquito bites, and waiting in long line for a trendy new ice cream shop only to have them run out just as you get up to the counter. This year SyFy’s social media-friendly action adventure about a tornado that spews sharks will continue its legacy of awful special effects, ridiculous dialogue and slew of celebrity cameos (look for Dr Drew, Gilbert Gottfried, Carrot Top). Oh, and as for those who wonder whether April (Tara Reid) lived or died in the cliffhanger at the end of last year’s movie, there’s already a YouTube video to let you know her fate. SyFy, Sunday 31 July at 8pm ET New to StreamingTallulah   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This Sundance hit is actually a movie and not a TV series, but it’s debuting on Netflix so that kinda counts, right? (Remember when TV still made original movies? That was awesome.) Ellen Page plays the title character, who is homeless and steals a baby so that she can pawn it off as her own and move in with her ex’s mom (West Wing goddess Allison Janney). Of course the two form a strong bond with each other and the child and then everything falls apart when they realize that the baby is stolen and all the rest. It’s sort of like Raising Arizona, but with fewer gags and no Nicolas Cage. Netflix, Friday 29 July Around the webReal Time with Bill Maher   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you missed the Republican national convention last week, lucky you. This week the Democrats are doing the balloon dropping song and dance and all of the late-night hosts are doing special things so not one moment of the political process doesn’t have a dozen jokes made out of it. While Steven Colbert was the clear victor of week one, Bill Maher is doing exciting stuff too and the HBO host is putting his whole show up on YouTube for free so that even those liberals who can’t afford the streaming service can laugh about Hillary Clinton’s pant suits. There will be 30-minute episodes available on Wednesday and Thursday at 11pm ET or as soon as the convention wraps. What to catch up onCrazy Ex Girlfriend    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s a travesty that this freshman show didn’t get nominated for any major Emmys. Not only is it one of the funniest, freshest and most fabulous shows on TV now, it also has original musical numbers. The Crazy Ex of the title is Rebecca Bunch (Rachel Bloom), an uptight New York lawyer who quits her job and moves to West Covina, California, after a chance encounter with her ex, Josh Chan (Vincent Rodriguez III). When she arrives she falls in with a bunch of serious eccentrics who are as much fun to laugh at as they are to love. The CW renewed the low-rated but critically adored program for a second season, so the time is now to catch up before this fall when I force everyone to watch this show so that it never gets cancelled. To make it even easier, all 18 episodes of season one are available on Netflix. Crazy Ex-Girlfriend: 'The songs are the heart of the show' TV newsRepublicans hate Game of ThronesWhy no one is talking about PreacherWho did Negan kill on The Walking Dead?Rita Ora replaces Tyra Banks as host of America’s Next Top Model Mystery Science Theater 3000 will be revived by NetflixRihanna joins cast of Bates Motel 