Blood Orange review – soulful and sublime It’s late July in New York and Dev Hynes (AKA Blood Orange) is sitting on a bench in Washington Square Park. It’s a scorching day, even in the shade, and he’s wearing dark shades and a baseball cap that covers his dreadlocks. A few feet away there’s a teacher trying to manage a rowdy school trip, while NYU students mill around. Near the fountain, a jazz trio play John Coltrane’s Naima. The only thing that could make the scene more of a New York summertime cliche is if some kids took a wrench to a fire hydrant.Hynes spends most days in this park and has conducted nearly every interview he’s done in promotion of his third Blood Orange record, Freetown Sound, here. For the producer and pop musician it has become more than an open-air office. “I feel relaxed in cities because of the chaos,” says Hynes. “But I like the idea of parks and being in this moment of chill in this weird, overpowering city.”It’s a city that he seems to have tamed. In December last year, he filled Harlem’s Apollo Theater with celebrity fans such as Robert Pattinson and David Byrne for a music school fundraiser. The New York Times chief music critic has called Ilford-raised Hynes “an excellent New Yorker”, while the New Yorker itself said he brought “a newcomer’s devotion to the city’s rich dancefloor subcultures” when he moved there in 2007. He’s another immigrant who’s been adopted by the city, and one who’s taken some of its most famous cultural exports and beamed them back.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s a rather different Hynes to the one who grew up in London. In the mid-2000s he was one third of nu-ravers Test Icicles, sporting a shocking pink guitar and luminous T-shirts. Then he signed to indie label Domino and re-emerged as Lightspeed Champion, a confessional singer-songwriter in the Bright Eyes mould. But as Blood Orange, the alias he adopted in 2011, he’s become one of modern pop’s most important voices. Much like a one-man Jam & Lewis or Gamble & Huff, his productions exist at the intersection of hip-hop, house and R&B, reclaiming the sounds of the 80s and 90s and repackaging them for 2016.Now he’s 30, and Hynes’s new record isn’t just musically dense but thematically, too. It’s interspersed with poignant touches, such as slam poet Ashlee Haze opining about Missy Elliott and femininity, author Ta-Nehisi Coates discussing race, and snippets from Paris Is Burning, Jennie Livingston’s seminal documentary on the New York ballroom scene (which also informed the first Blood Orange album). These give the sense of a Tumblr page dedicated to the challenges of contemporary urban black life in the US.How Blood Orange’s Dev Hynes grew into a producer and songwriter of class Hynes describes the album as a mixtape, inspired by the beat tapes of J Dilla and the Beastie Boys’ Paul’s Boutique. There’s certainly a collage quality to it, but this somewhat patchwork approach has divided opinion. Some think it’s his best work yet; others have pointed out that it can be a hard, meandering listen. But that’s fine with Hynes. “I don’t really want people to immediately like my stuff because that’s a little dangerous to me,” he says. “I like the idea of them being intrigued. That is cooler to me. Then they have to listen again and have it seep into their brain in some way.”Those who listen again will hear Hynes touching on race, black masculinity, gender and sexuality, either in his music or through the samples he uses. There are references to Trayvon Martin, but it’s not a full-on protest record like Anohni’s Hopelessness, nor the stark picture of black inner-city life that Kendrick Lamar sketched. Hynes is openly political: last year, for example, he released the track Sandra’s Smile about the death of Sandra Bland, who was found dead in a police cell after a traffic stop. Yet he says that Freetown Sound wasn’t intended to make a similar statement.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I’m not really making a point,” he says of his more subtle, lead-the horses-to-water approach. “I’m more just talking about things that I’m thinking about. If there are some people out there who got the record and listened to it and started to dig a little deeper they’ll see some points and hear some views.”On lead single Augustine, Hynes has left a few of those Easter eggs lying around. The lyrics mix his parents’ journey to Europe from Sierra Leone and Guyana with his own arrival in New York. The melody, meanwhile, is inspired by Puccini, and the titular character is the Christian saint who brought the religion to Africa. It’s part-opera, part-Godfather Part II, with a nod to the impact of theology and colonialism. Ultimately, though, it’s great pop music.That knack for producing pop tunes is Hynes’s trump card. He’s worked with stars such as Nelly Furtado, Carly Rae Jepsen, FKA twigs and Sky Ferreira, giving his collaborators extra kudos (and, in the case of Ferreira, chart success). But an early studio contribution wasn’t quite as cool. “The first production credit I got was by accident and it was for Diana Vickers,” he recalls, talking about the song Me & You from the X Factor singer’s 2010 album. “She randomly wanted to work with me. So I wrote with her and I got an email request saying, ‘Is this OK for a producer fee?’ and I was like, ‘What are you on? What do you mean?’ I was slightly horrified because I didn’t bother to tune anything.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hynes performs at New York’s Panorama Music Festival earlier this year. Photograph: Kena Betancur/AFP/Getty ImagesA turning point came when he caught the attention of Solange Knowles. During the transition between Lightspeed Champion and Blood Orange, Hynes was called upon by Beyoncé’s sister, who wanted him to be part of her writing team. The pair soon started working as a twosome. “That was such a confidence boost,” says Hynes. “There was an initial moment of complete fucking horror. We’d been in LA working together, and even then I didn’t view myself as a producer. I remember flying back to New York and thinking, ‘I don’t know if I can do that.’”Blood Orange: Freetown Sound review – ancestry explored in a collage of sounds Turns out he could. Hynes ended up working on Knowles’s True EP and touring with her, before a falling out on Twitter over songwriting credit and perceptions about Hynes’s influence on Solange’s sound (she was called his “vocal muse” in a Pitchfork review, something she responded to by tweeting: “How can one be a ‘vocal muse’ to their own melodies, storytelling, and words they wrote?”). They’ve since reconciled their differences. “I owe her a lot,” he says, “because she really helped me understand how to work with people and how to be confident in what I can do, in life, not just collaborating in music.” So is he cautious after his experience with Solange and perceptions of male producers stealing credit from female writing partners? “I don’t do songwriting work that much,” he says. “I’m really particular about it and I want to get to know the person and a lot of times when people put the request in, they don’t actually want to hang out so I just don’t do it.”“I just really don’t want to make something I don’t like. When you’re friends with someone that kind of disappears. So even if you think it’s not good enough to be on a record you don’t feel bummed because it’s with a friend so you just make something again.”That confidence is certainly evident: bare-chested in his PR shots, busting out elaborate moves in his live shows, dancing down Manhattan sidewalks in music videos. His reinterpretation of the past could be misconstrued as pastiche, but he possesses the ability to take genres and put his own spin on them. “It’s not a pastiche because I know what I’m doing and how I’m making it, and I know no one else can do it,” he explains. “When people say that, I tell them, ‘Go on, then, do it.’ And they usually can’t.”It’s true. There aren’t many people who could pull off what Hynes has. His reclamation of those 80s sounds and philosophies that have shaped black New York stand out in an era when cultural appropriation is a regular talking point.“I’m 30 now and I want to own myself and things that I feel strongly about and I feel a part of,” he continues. “I’ve really wanted to stand up straight and own everything that I’m doing. I can stand behind anything on this album – there’s nothing that can be said to bother me. Even if someone didn’t get something, it’s not my problem.”That’s a comeback any New Yorker would be proud of.Freetown Sound is out now via Domino 