The three figures in the late-night diner of Edward Hopper’s quintessential New York painting Nighthawks tell us about the loneliness of life in the big city, while the criss-cross lines of Piet Mondrian’s Broadway Boogie Woogie seem to dance to its syncopated rhythms. Whether it’s Harold Lloyd dangling from a skyscraper, or Robert De Niro prowling the streets in his taxi cab, New York appears to exists in our collective imagination as a series of frozen images and screen grabs.The writer John Dos Passos and composer Edgard Varèse would intuit a different, deeper truth about the city they lived and worked in during the 1920s – that its identity is inseparable from the sounds it makes. Before Varèse arrived from Paris in 1916 he put all his compositions in storage. The New World was, he figured, no place for the heart-tugging romanticism of tone poems marinated in the harmonic juices of Richard Strauss. Dos Passos hailed from Chicago. His early novels One Man’s Initiation: 1917 and Three Soldiers, inspired by his experiences as an ambulance driver during the first world war, had been respectfully received, but New York would transform the aesthetic scope and visionary ambition of his art. Both men would create work that excavated the soul of their adopted city, scooping out its underlying vibrations, rhythms and chatter.Dos Passos’s 1925 novel Manhattan Transfer was a panoramic 400-page montage of scenes from New York life that captured the popular imagination and gave him his first commercial success. Varèse’s first New York orchestral piece, Amériques, was also monumental in construction. His concept of what he would term “organised sound” – he had abandoned traditionally functioning “music” in his early works – provoked a barracking of jeers and catcalls at its premiere in 1926. But more than 90 years on, it’s Varèse – celebrated in a concert of his works at the Barbican on 6 May – who is considered a cornerstone of modernist music. His ideas about undiluted sound would open doors for John Cage, Morton Feldman, Iannis Xenakis and Karlheinz Stockhausen, while Dos Passos’s position on any list of must-read modernist novelists ranks him alongside marginal experimentalists Wyndham Lewis or Ann Quin rather than with Virginia Woolf, James Joyce or William Faulkner.The graceful prose of Dos Passos’s Three Soldiers functions like a well-oiled machine as it motors his narrative forward, but in Manhattan Transfer the fabric of the prose becomes a narrative layer in its own right. Snatches of conversation are not so much reported as thrown towards your ears – as the reader, you are there, listening into their conversations as his characters breeze past you on Second Avenue. We hear about a “dented tomatocan”, a “gorillafaced chipontheshoulder policeman”, “the riversmelling morning air”, while an impatient “taxidriver” looks anxiously for the right “pushbutton” as Dos Passos compresses words to create a form of verbal bebop.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Exploring ‘new worlds on Earth’ … Edgard Varèse. Photograph: AlamyThis is a writer clearly obsessed with tempo and rhythmic overlay. An extended scene set inside a restaurant unfolds like a movie camera is very deliberately panning around the room, zooming in momentarily on a conversation before the angle tilts elsewhere. Rather than his authorial voice setting the structural pace, the illusion is created that the tempo is being dictated by this imaginary camera – which captures rapid-fire realtime conversation, but in stylised slow motion.Teasing the senses by distorting proportion was also a key weapon in Varèse’s compositional arsenal. Consciously mirroring Debussy’s Prélude à l’Après-midi d’un Faune and Stravinsky’s Le Sacre du Printemps, Amériques opens with an unaccompanied woodwind solo although Varèse’s alto flute plays a noticeably different role to Debussy’s, or to Stravinsky’s bassoon. We eavesdrop on a lone voice surveying an unimaginably vast urban landscape revealed only gradually. Billowing brass crash into elaborate networks of percussion as Varèse begins to map out the foundations of a sprawling grid system. Its spectral chords, bitty melodies and rhythmic grooves are wrenched into fantastical new shapes, featuring looming perspectives and surprising juxtapositions.While there is no evidence to suggest Varèse and Dos Passos ever met, or even knew of each other’s existence, their thinking about how to reflect the New York experience is uncannily synchronous. Manhattan Transfer is embroidered with exacting descriptions of sirens and steamboat whistles. Varèse, too, embeds sirens and steamboat whistles into his piece, although never as mere orchestral colour – he places the objects themselves into his orchestra where percussionists make them yowl and moan. Sirens would become the signature sound of Varèse’s music, and where Dos Passos placed his readers on the sidewalk, Varèse dragged the sidewalk into the concert hall.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The structure of Brooklyn Bridge informed Hart Crane’s most celebrated poem. Photograph: Visual Studies Workshop/Getty ImagesGeorge Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue, premiered in 1924 and often considered New York’s default anthem, can only sound like a sepia postcard compared to Amériques and Dos Passos’ sonically alive Manhattan Transfer, which functions both as a novel and as an acutely heard piece of sound art. But then the pulsating, high-speed moxie of New York would never wholly be the domain of composers like Philip Glass, John Cage, Leonard Bernstein, Elliott Carter and John Zorn. The city as a giant resonance chamber would echo through the writings of later New York authors, including James Baldwin, William Burroughs, Ralph Ellison, Betty Smith and Don DeLillo.In his most celebrated poem, The Bridge, Hart Crane orchestrates Brooklyn Bridge: support ropes become harp strings while the bridge’s extended iron girders morph into a musical stave. From the harbour, Henry Roth’s great 1934 novel Call It Sleep walks us into the “avalanche of sound” of Manhattan’s Lower East Side, the “bailing cries” of hucksters crescendo into the “clatter and bang” of horse carts. Walk further uptown and you enter Damon Runyon’s Broadway where the overload of quick-fire, staccato dialogue feels entirely at one with the din of the street as swing music. In Harlem, Baldwin mashes the hollering of electric blues into the soundscape. “There must be two thousand transistor radios playing BB King,” he writes in his 1974 novel If Beale Street Could Talk.As Baldwin was invoking BB King, DeLillo’s 1973 novel Great Jones Street perceived something sinister in this saturation of sound – the noise of gentrification that removed the city from its people. Bucky Wunderlick is a disillusioned rock star (basically Bob Dylan before his motorbike crash) whose existential jitters are mirrored in his surroundings on Great Jones Street: “The building was pounded by shock waves from an explosion at a construction echo site nearby ... The sound was vibrant, accompanied by liquid echoes, and soon it was joined by the sound of another hammer, maybe a block away, a thick ripple to each graduating blow.”New York ultimately spits out one of Dos Passos’s main characters, Jimmy Herf, who on the final page of Manhattan Transfer waits for a ferry in a “seedy ruddylighted waiting room”. And what should we read into Varèse removing the steamboat whistle from his revised 1927 edition of Amériques and his claims that the piece was never meant to be “purely geographic but [was more] symbolic of discoveries – new worlds on earth, in the sky, or in the minds of men”? New York as a place where people go to make discoveries is, of course, directly connected to the sound it makes – all those voices and the ideas they generate using and abusing, enhancing and changing, the city. Perhaps John Cage’s so-called silent piece 4’33” was the next logical step after Varèse – a work that contains no intentioned music at all, but places one of those reassuring frames around the raw noises of the city and invites you to listen in.• The BBC Symphony Orchestra’s Total Immersion Day: Varèse is at the Barbican, London EC2Y, on Saturday. barbican.org.uk.