BBC Proms 2016: Simon Rattle Conducts The Berlin Philharmonic 7.30pm, BBC4Mahler! Who doesn’t love a bit of stormy old Gustav, that most transparently bipolar of composers, whose every note is suffused with intensity, melancholy and longing? Tonight, Rattle and the Berlin Philharmonic take on the colossally intense Symphony No 7 (a work that finds room for mandolin and cowbell), alongside Eclat, the short piece for 15 musicians by Pierre Boulez, who died in January. Ali CatterallGeorge Clarke’s Amazing Spaces: The Best Builds 8pm, Channel 4Odd shows, those hosted by George Clarke. A mix of Grand Designs-style vision and cheesy Changing Rooms makeover, an episode might inspire you to change nothing more than the channel. Tonight, George revisits projects with a coastal theme. This includes a trip to Margate and a meeting with Dom Bridges, who has crowdfunded his update of a 19th-century sea bathing machine, complete with sauna and spa treatment room. John RobinsonGoodnight Sweetheart 9pm, BBC1The original sitcom saw Nicholas Lyndhurst’s Gary Sparrow discovering a time-travel portal and, basically, using his power to simply go down the pub in a different era. This reboot, which is part of the BBC’s sitcom season, promises yet more momentous events for Gary to be vaguely underwhelmed by. This time, he’s offered the chance to witness his own birth. An existential mind-mangler, surely? Expect Gary to shrug the whole thing off in his customarily phlegmatic style. Phil HarrisonLady C And The Castle 9pm, ITV Castle Goring in Sussex belongs to Lady Colin Campbell. Nothing too unusual in a posh socialite owning a stately home, except that Campbell, possibly unwisely, bagged the building – “a complete wreck” – at a knockdown price in 2013. This one-off doc follows her efforts to raise funds to pay for restorations, and to turn the castle into conference centre. “I’m whoring for Goring,” says a woman whose I’m A Celebrity… turn helped to pay for a new roof. That’s determination! Jonathan WrightThe Out-Laws 9pm, More4Chocolate, beer, comedy: the things the Belgians do best dark. In this penultimate episode of Malin-Sarah Gozal’s brilliantly macabre series, Goedele and the Dewitts are called to social services to identify a dazed woman roaming the streets, while Birgit hatches a delicious plan for Goedele’s 40th birthday. Excellent, satisfying fare: the only cause for despair is news of an American remake. Like Skrillex covering Kraftwerk, you suspect. David StubbsX: The Generation That Changed The World: Politics 9pm, National GeographicThis series has been well-timed: Generation X are now middle-aged and (therefore) more or less in charge of the world. This episode examines their political thinking, and how it has evolved from the weary diffidence with which the cohort are associated. A baffling amount of time is spent examining the previous generation, coming of age prior to the 1980s, but this has its moments once it gets up to speed. Andrew MuellerYoung Hyacinth 9.30pm, BBC1This can’t fail: Roy Clarke’s prequel to his own Keeping Up Appearances adds Heartbeat-ish period charm to the formula of social ambition undone by pride and pratfalls. Hyacinth is a 19-year-old in the 1950s, desperate to drag her family out of their humble existence. Of course it’s weak beer but Kerry Howard is brilliant in the lead, nailing her character’s wobbly attempt to put on an RP accent and expertly hinting at Patricia Routledge’s manic intonation. Jack SealeFilm choiceCarnage (Roman Polanski, 2011) Friday, 11.05pm, BBC2      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christoph Waltz and Kate Winslet in Carnage. Photograph: AllstarPolanski’s films often feature sick and twisted individuals, but they would quail before the nastiness of the quartet here. Adapted from Yasmina Reza’s play, Carnage has two couples meeting to discuss a playground bust-up between their children. John C Reilly and Jodie Foster are the artsy, offended pair, while Christoph Waltz and Kate Winslet play the unpleasant parents of the culprit. The joy is that it’s impossible to like any of them, as civilisation is abandoned in a flood of accusations and vomit.The Duke Of Burgundy (Peter Strickland, 2014) 12.35am, Channel 4 This curious tale of moths and sadomasochism opens with housemaid Evelyn (Chiara D’Anna) cycling to a rural mansion to be bossed and punished (in the bathroom, behind closed doors) by the haughty lepidopterist Cynthia (Borgen’s Sidse Babett Knudsen). Soon we learn that they are lovers and it is Evelyn who controls their S&M scenes with her handwritten scripts. The film is shot with a loving eye for lingerie and an arthouse appreciation of butterflies; tender, erotic and sweetly funny.Live SportCycling: Vuelta a España 2pm, Eurosport 2 Featuring a 212.8km journey from Bilbao to Urdax.Tennis: The US Open 3.30pm, Eurosport 1 The fifth day from Flushing Meadows in New York.Premiership Rugby Union: Gloucester v Leicester Tigers 7pm, BT Sport 1 Coverage of the opening match of the campaign, which comes from Kingsholm.