February 10 - 21- London: Imagine Children’s FestivalEnjoy theatre, literature and music at the Imagine Children’s Festival before meeting authors and illustrators such as Judith Kerr and Laura Dockrill. Taking place at London’s Southbank centre, the festival runs for 11 days and is bursting with half-term fun.Why we love enchantment in children's books February 12 - London: Michael Rosen Exhibition at Discover Children’s Story Centre Voyage inside a giant chocolate cake and explore a secret larder at this interactive exhibition for all ages up to 11. Children can discover hidden rooms and clues that explain what inspired Michael Rosen’s writing, enjoy a bear hunt trail and write poems of their own.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   You could climb into Michael Rosen’s chocolate cake at Discover! Photograph: Andrew BakerFebruary 13- 21 - Leeds: Library Fest LeedsLibrary Fest Leeds runs for nine days and offers a colourful array of author events, performances and workshops. Highlights include a comic creation class with top artist Jim Medway and a poetry slam in the central library. The creative workshops offer a great chance for budding young writers to hone in their skills and get advice from top authors. Feb 13-21 - Newcastle: Seven Stories: a Week of Wizarding WonderWands at the ready. Hop on your Nimbus 3000 and whizz down to Seven Stories for a week of wizarding wonder! Be enchanted by magical stories and get creative in the Studio inspired by Jim Kay’s exquisite Harry Potter illustrations. Activities ALL through half term week. February 13 - London: ‘The Cat in the Hat’Based on the book by Dr Seuss, The Cat in the Hat is a dynamic and engaging theatre experience for young children, offering big towering hats and lots of mischief. It will show at the artsdepot in North Finchley, London. February 13 - London: Elephant Hide & Seek Game & Story time with David Barrow Join in on a unique storytime session involving hide and seek with an elephant, before hearing author and illustrator David Barrow read from his comic illustrated book Have You Seen Elephant? The event will run at Foyles Bookshop at Westfield Stratford City and is suitable for ages five to seven.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Barrow reads from his book Have you Seen Elephant?Cathy Cassidy: we must all speak up for libraries February 15 - 19 - London: Storystock This three day literary festival for book lovers aged 2-11, is jam-packed with treasure hunts, creative workshops and song writing. Special events include ‘The Myth Marathon Show’ which packs 26 Greek myths into 26 minutes and a mad hatter’s tea party. February 16 - Dorset: ‘Monsters and Mayhem!’ with Rachel BrightVisit Wareham Library and meet local author and illustrator Rachel Bright and her most famous character, Love Monster. Take part in stories and drawing, create new characters from your imagination and make your own Love Monster puppet.February 17 - York:  Meet the Author: ‘Thorfinn the Nicest Viking’ with David MacPhailMeet the author behind the nicest Viking in kids books, David Macphail, who will be talking about his new series of books and how he transforms his ideas into stories. Which Roald Dahl character are you? February 17 - Buckinghamshire: ‘A giant peach of a story’ with Sandra Agard Visit the Roald Dahl Museum and spend an hour with Centenary Storyteller in Residence, Sandra Agard. Sandra has performed for years and is known for her hilarious and heartfelt style. Climb inside the giant peach and hear tales from across the world.February 18 - Birmingham: BFG Dream Jar WorkshopCelebrate Roald Dahl’s 100th birthday at this fun workshop, inviting children to write the recipe for their dreams, and fill their very own dream jars with “ingredients” at Foyles Bookshop in Grand Central Station Birmingham.Yet more:Don’t forget to check your local bookshops’ events pages. Waterstones, Blackwell’s, and Foyles, as well as countless libraries and independent bookshops across the country regularly host authors and literary events – and not just during half term!How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? What have we missed? Tell us on email childrens.books@theguardian.com or on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks and we’ll add as many as we can to this blog. Kay Jones (@Kmuseumgeek)@GdnChildrensBks hi, you should include The Storybarn, Liverpool @caldiessb in half term events listing, thanksFebruary 13, 2016