Each Christmas, I place a stack of books on my bedside table, planning to read my way through the lot during my week off. And each Christmas, without fail, they remain precisely where I put them as I turn to old favourites instead: Dickens, Christie, Streatfeild, Rowling, Lewis. Christmas, after all, is a time for tradition. An unfamiliar book, like a new film or an untested recipe, has little place on my Christmas Day.From childhood, this has been my favourite time of year. Although I grew up in Australia, where Christmas Day regularly reaches 30 degrees, I relished stories where the characters are surrounded by snow, warming their hands by the fire. I have great affection for the platters of prawns, fruit-topped pavlovas and glorious sunshine I remember from my childhood Christmases – but it never felt like anything I saw in my favourite books.Once I moved to England, much of the comfort and familiarity in the Christmases I have spent here comes from my books; on my bedside table, and in my kitchen. Here, the roast bird, the flaming plum pudding and the pastel-hued sweets so often found in stories make complete sense.Roast birdSherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders.“There is your hat, then, and there your bird,” said he. “By the way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from? I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose.”The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle by Arthur Conan Doyle      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A typical festive turkey lunch … a little less adventurous than Bridget Jones’s mum’s turkey curry buffet. Photograph: Dan Matthews/Weekend magazineRoasted goose was the Christmas bird of choice for most middle-class families in Victorian England and this is reflected in literature: the plot of Conan Doyle’s The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle hangs on a Christmas goose, and Dickens’s Cratchit family in A Christmas Carol eke one out with mashed potato and stuffing.Though turkey was financially out of reach for most English families until the mid-20th century, the bird has long been associated with Christmas. Henry VIII is rumoured to have placed one on his Christmas table, and Edward VII made it a fashionable choice for the wealthy in the early years of last century. It also plays an important role in A Christmas Carol: Ebenezer Scrooge’s fowl gift to Bob and his family on Christmas Day is indicative of his newfound generosity. “I’ll send it to Bob Cratchit’s!” whispered Scrooge, rubbing his hands, and splitting with a laugh. “He shan’t know who sends it. It’s twice the size of Tiny Tim. Joe Miller never made such a joke as sending it to Bob’s will be!”This moment in fiction has had a lasting legacy; around 75% of us will have turkey this year, a truly staggering figure (especially if you share my opinion that a humble roast chicken is a vastly superior bird). Modern fiction continues to reflect this – think of the turkey curry buffet in Bridget Jones’s Diary (a little better than Bridget’s blue soup).Christmas puddingFlaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. Percy nearly broke his teeth on a silver sickle embedded in his slice.Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone by JK Rowling      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I have lost count of the number of fictional families who finish their Christmas dinner with a pudding.’ Photograph: Kate Young of The Little Library CaféMy great-grandmother spent long days each August boiling puddings in calico, and hanging them all over her house to dry. It’s a tradition the rest of our family has adopted. We’re in good company; the plum pudding has its origins in medieval England, and is still a common feature on Christmas tables across the country. I have lost count of the number of fictional families who finish their Christmas dinner with a pudding: the dessert is carried out by Percy in Lucy M Boston’s The Children of Green Knowe, enjoyed by the Fossil sisters in Noel Streatfeild’s Ballet Shoes, and appears in the Great Hall at the end of Harry’s first Christmas in Hogwarts.Sweets      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Edmund might have been a pain, but he had good taste in sweets. Photograph: Kate Young of The Little Library Café“It is dull, Son of Adam, to drink without eating,” said the Queen presently. “What would you like best to eat?”“Turkish Delight, please, your Majesty,” said Edmund.The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe by CS LewisNothing feels more like Christmas to me than dishes, tins and bowls of sweets, placed at intervals around the house. At no other time of year does every retreat to the sofa involve a couple of Quality Street or mini Daim bars. If I am feeling slightly more ambitious, I’ll make the sweets that I read about: crystallised ginger from Agatha Christie’s The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding, sugar plums from A Visit from St Nicholas by Clement Clarke Moore, and soft pink cubes of Turkish Delight in CS Lewis’s The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. Now, I can’t spend Christmas in Narnia with the Pevensie children, or solving crimes with Hercule Poirot – but it reassures me to see them similarly taken with decadent sweets.A cook's books: a food blogger's recipes inspired by literature – in pictures Food serves many functions in literature, providing us with a strong sense of time and place. From my years of reading about it, I felt I understood Christmas in England long before I ever experienced it. Moving to the UK was not unlike stepping through the wardrobe into Narnia; leaving the comfort of the familiar for the relative unknown. I spent much of my first year finding my feet. But that first Christmas, I lived the day that I had spent so many years dreaming about – and ate the meals I had spent so many years reading about. Kate Young writes a regular series for the Guardian about food in literature and blogs at Little Library Cafe. Her first cookbook will be out in October 2017.