In 1971, the British photographer David Hamilton published Dreams of a Young Girl, a book full of soft-focus pictures of naked teenagers, with a text by the French writer and film-maker Alain Robbe-Grillet. It ended up on coffee tables around the world, and Hamilton’s images graced public buildings, including the US Library of Congress. Years later, questions were raised about whether the photographs constitute art or pornography. Although there have been prosecutions for indecency in which Hamilton’s images have figured, his books remain widely available, his defenders insisting that the images merely represent a more innocent age.That debate is continued in Lies Pauwels’ show The Hamilton Complex, which opens this week at the Unicorn as part of the London international festival of theatre (Lift). Created by Pauwels with a cast of 13-year-old girls (13 of them) and a male bodybuilder, the piece deliberately plays on the dreamy, secretive self-absorption of teenage girls recognisable from Hamilton’s images. Dressed in green, pleated gym skirts or frilly, white dresses and pink and green wigs, the girls stare out from the stage, flicking their hair or idly stroking each other’s arms in a manner that is sometimes unconscious and at others highly studied. Then it explodes those images. “We play on them and then we work against them,” Pauwels explains.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lift’s trailer for The Hamilton Complex.Much like Fevered Sleep’s recent piece, Men and Girls Dance, the question of how we look at and interpret it is our problem – and Pauwels believes the issues are more contested in the Anglo-Saxon world than elsewhere. “In Europe, it is simply not an issue,” she says. In any case, as Pauwels suggests, putting 13-year-olds on stage at a point in their lives when they are going through momentous physical and psychological change can also be seen as a wider metaphor for a world in a state of flux and uncertainty. The show arrives this week in a chaotic, post-referendum UK unsure of its place and how it might move forward.“It is both about teenage girls and it isn’t,” says Pauwels. “My starting point was an interest in exploring a world in transition, caught between older traditions and the pull of new possibilities, certainty and chaos. A group of 13-year-old girls seemed a good way to do that, as it also raises questions around the collective and the individual, fantasy and reality, the private self and the public self and, of course, the loss of innocence that comes with growing up. At 13, everything is possible, but it is also a very confusing time.” That explodes all over the stage.“What I like about it,” says Lift’s artistic director, Mark Ball, “is the way it empowers the girls. The guy on stage is a perfect representation of masculinity, but it is these young girls who have control over him, not the other way round.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 13 teenage stars of The Hamilton Complex. Photograph: Fred Debrock“Oh, they are completely in charge,” says Pauwels. “The bodybuilder is the only adult on stage, and he represents authority, a father figure, someone in a supervisory role. But gradually it becomes clear that he is not as powerful as he might appear, particularly as his conservatism becomes pitted against the girls’ progressiveness. In some ways, this is about the generations, the tensions between them and how we change the world.”The London performance will mark the beginning of the end for The Hamilton Complex, which has achieved acclaim around Europe. The girls are growing up fast: some of them have already turned 14. “I have to let it go,” says Pauwels. “It has been such a wonderful experience, so deep and meaningful. When we came together, most of these girls had never been on stage before. Now they own it, and they are so lovely with each other. We talk about a lot of very hard and difficult things in the performance, but they do it with love and tenderness, and they are so responsible. People talk about it being my show, but it’s really their show. It belongs to them. We made it together. Everything in it came from them. “In a way, making The Hamilton Complex has given me more trust in the future. The act of making it required me to place my faith and trust in a group of teenage girls. It just goes to show what is possible when you really trust people and give them the freedom to be themselves.”The Hamilton Complex is at the Unicorn theatre, London, from 30 June to 2 July as part of Lift and at Birmingham Rep, 5-6 July, as part of On the Edge