Fabriclive, LondonA launch party here for Fabric’s latest mix CD. It’s from My Nu Leng, who have been spearheading a multifarious kind of UK bass: one where garage, drum’n’bass, grime, dub and techno combine with the kind of low-end wobble that threatens to detach your corneas. The duo headline, assisted by Dread MC; Breakage is in support, still going steady with his skittering junglism, but now to be heard flirting with soulful bass and even house. Recent collaborators Woz and New York Transit Authority go back-to-back for a set of deep, dark, dynamic house haunted by flickers of two-step, while ridiculously nimble MC Scrufizzer and anthemic soca duo Jus Now ensure chaos. Bass for your face, and, indeed, guts.Fabric, EC1, FriBBTRicardo Villalobos, ManchesterThere’s much anticipation as Ricardo Villalobos finally returns to Manchester, with a relatively low-key gig for this Chilean-German cult superstar, who is often considered one of techno’s last genuine mavericks, existing in the margins between minimal and house. He works elusively out of a space in Berlin and eschews social media, only occasionally showcasing his unpredictable persona during rare club appearances. Last summer, a viral video filmed at Leeds’ Cocoon In The Park caught the DJ mixing up drinks during his set. Fear not, though: Villalobos’s tendency towards indulgence usually leads down invigorating and experimental routes in any club space. Using a hypnotic percussive sensibility as an anchor, he plots an unpredictable route between contemporary house, rhythmic South African music and offbeat electronica rooted in his lifelong love of Depeche Mode.Gorilla, FriJTMidnight Vapour Trail, BristolCheer up! Provided you’re not worrying about environmental catastrophe or economic collapse, it might never happen. With so much grumpy abstract techno and faceless lo-fi house around, it’s unusual to see a night as unashamedly upbeat as this. It’s run by Lone’s record label Magicwire, and the neon-bright producer will be headlining with a doubtlessly iridescent set of euphoric synth tunes, which sound the way fizzy drinks taste, but without the cloying sweetness. Also playing is Montreal’s Project Pablo. Released through Vancouver label 1080p, which managed to be one of the best dance imprints of last year, he makes the kind of summery disco you only get in a place where going out means braving -25°C winter nights. Last year’s X-Files-referencing album I Want To Believe was a masterclass in deconstructed dance-pop, with a breezy melodic and rhythmic invention reminiscent of ZE Records. Sun-bleached producer Gabriola opens; easy sounds for hard times.The Small Horse Social Club, SatCJAme, LondonWith solemnly knitted brows and probably a great recipe for vegan carrot cake, house duo Ame will have shed a single tear at the beauty of a sunrise on more than one occasion. Their live tracks and DJ sets – and this all-Ame event has both – are full of minor chords that hint at redemption, and totheir detractors they have all the spiritual depth of a gap-year student. But despite the hashtaggable emotions, there’s plenty of fun, too, as disco rhythms and yacht-rock moods also swagger on to the floor.Oval Space, E2, SatBBTKarnival 10th Birthday, EdinburghOne of the leaders of Detroit techno’s second wave, Carl Craig’s prolific output doesn’t look to be subsiding any time soon. He spent much of last year touring his Motor City-focused club series Detroit Love, as well as dropping a 12-inch of KMS remixes and Unity, a surprise, digital-only collaboration with Chicago great Cajmere under his Green Velvet alias that was an intergalactic voyage through voluptuous, groove-ridden techno. A new album is expected to surface this year; in the meantime, catch Craig here as part of Karnival’s decade-in-clubbing celebrations.La Belle Angele, SatSC