So the Edinburgh fringe is almost over for another year. Monday is the last day of the festival but many companies have already packed up and left. Some will be going home with accolades, possibly awards, and maybe even a transfer for their show.The majority will have won nothing and lost some money, but with any luck they’ll have had a great time, made contacts and found collaborators for future work. Edinburgh isn’t just about the show that you put on this year – it’s about the ideas and dreams that are talked about in the bar and the shows you’ve seen that inspire you to make better work next time.I’ve seen shows with plenty of ambition this year: pieces such as Breach Theatre’s Tank, which was a step up in terms of sophistication and reach compared with last year’s show The Beanfield. Julia Taudevin’s Blow Off and Matt Regan’s Greater Belfast were also ambitious pieces and used music in interesting ways to explore ideas around extremism and what we mean by home.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A step up … Tank by Breach Theatre. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianKnowing the right scale for your work is a tricky thing to achieve: part of the pleasure of How to Win Against History is the fact that this fully formed musical is unassumingly small. But small doesn’t have to mean unambitious. I’ve seen shows here with big casts and big designs that haven’t had half the effectiveness of simpler pieces such as Third Angel’s 600 People, Yinka Kuitenbrouwer’s One Hundred Homes, Hannah Nicklin’s Equations for a Moving Body and Eurohouse. What all those shows have is a fully-formed aesthetic that embraces simplicity but not for the common reasons of trying to minimise the difficult conditions of the fringe, with its tiny turnaround times and lack of storage. The same goes for Paines Plough’s pop-up Roundabout space, which can be extraordinarily exposing but can also allow the writing and acting to shine, as shows such as Scorch and Love, Lies and Taxidermy proved.The cost of staging an Edinburgh fringe show: artists open their account books A lack of ambition strikes me as the real problem that afflicts young companies and it’s one that I have particularly noticed this year. I don’t blame them. The costs of coming to Edinburgh are now so great that the instinct to not take too much of a risk is always going to be a strong one. But when I compare the international work at Edinburgh with the shows made in the UK, it’s the latter that often seemed to be playing it safe. I suspect that’s because many young British companies think they must go to Edinburgh to get noticed, and so they are much more likely to make a show with Edinburgh in mind. It’s maybe not the show they really want to make, but one that they hope will be a crowd-pleaser at the festival, not lose them too much money and may get picked up to tour. I suspect that European companies, in contrast, bring over pre-existing shows that they think might be good for Edinburgh.There might be another factor at play and that is the role of Edinburgh venues and those who programme them. Venues need the companies performing in their spaces to sell tickets. That’s how they make money and cover the rent they pay to landlords such as the University of Edinburgh and the costs of setting up venues every year. So they will nurture the companies who can prove that they can sell tickets by offering them maybe a slightly better deal the following year in a slightly bigger space. What it creates is a progression to bigger spaces on the fringe but not necessarily a progression to better work. Often it just leads to a very similar show to the one made the previous year.These companies manage to build themselves something of a following on the fringe during August, but because their primary concern is to sell tickets during Edinburgh it is apparent in the work which is often a little bit comic, a little bit touching and almost totally bland. There’s nothing wrong in looking at the Edinburgh market place and making a call over whether the show you’re making will sit well there during the month of August. It is quite another thing to be making theatre that is primarily driven by the demands of the market place. 