Theatre Groundhog DayThe Old Vic’s hosting of the hit movie adaptation (pictured, above) reaches its final week, and reviews have remained frothing throughout its two-month run. Tim Minchin and Danny Rubin repeat the trick the former pulled off with Matilda, taking a revered source (in this case, Bill Murray’s 1993 tragi-com about a weatherman destined to repeat the same day over and over) and building a rich musical around it, preserving the original magic while adding in Minchin’s superbly off-kilter music. Old Vic, SE1, until 17 SeptemberTVMotherland      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paul Ready and Diane Morgan in Motherland. Photograph: -/BBCThe BBC’s sitcom season may have been greeted with mixed reviews – particularly in the case of shonky revivals of old favourites such as Porridge – but there has been the odd gem. This pilot created by Graham Linehan and Sharon Horgan, offers a pointed look at the annoyances of middle-class motherhood. Diane “Philomena Cunk” Morgan is among the stars. It’s available to view on iPlayer.American Horror StorySo far, the theme of season six of Ryan Murphy’s kitsch splatterfest has been kept a secret, though considering previous themes have included haunted houses, witches, asylums and freakshows, it’s unlikely to be about some jolly talking animals forgetting their differences by having a picnic in a wood. If you’ve never caught it before, don’t worry; each season is its own standalone tale. Begins 16 September, 10pm, FOXMusicLast Night Of The Proms      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: BBCNo longer confined to London, the final night of the classical concert series on Saturday is a national affair, with Proms In The Park events in Colwyn Bay, Belfast, Glasgow and Hyde Park.various venues, SaturdayMercury music prizeDespite the death of David Bowie, it doesn’t feel as if the result of this year’s Mercurys is a foregone conclusion. Blackstar would probably be a top contender even if Bowie were alive, but with Kano, Michael Kiwanuka, Radiohead, Skepta and Anohni (pictured, above) on the shortlist, it’s by no means guaranteed victory. The outsider’s punt is on jazz mob the Comet Is Coming’s Channel The Spirits but, beyond this, it’s a difficult year to call. For the first time, fans will also be able to select the first of the six finalists who will duke it out on Thursday (9pm, BBC4), meaning the decision won’t now solely be down to industry chin strokers.Hammersmith Apollo, ThursdayThis Is Grime      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Skepta. Photograph: Olivia Rose for the GuardianWith Stormzy, Kano and the star of this very issue, Skepta, inarguably breaking through to the mainstream, it seems an apposite juncture for the tale of grime to be told in handsome book form. Journalist Hattie Collins and snapper Olivia Rose – who shot this week’s Guide cover – explore the genre’s early-00s genesis, and draft in MCs, bloggers and producers to spin the yarn as they saw it. It’s available to buy now.FilmsBirmingham On FilmPart of Brum’s Flatpack film festival, this series of events, running until 15 October, examines the ever-changing cinematic image of the largest city in the UK outside the capital, through film shot in the region, episodes of famous TV shows (such as African-Caribbean soap opera Empire Road), tours of cinematic locations, talks, documentaries and events. It will, quite possibly, be bosting.Various venues, 16 September until 15 OctoberCaptain Fantastic   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A father (Viggo Mortensen) raising his kids in the wilderness is forced to return to society and question his beliefs in this heartfelt drama, in cinemas now. ExhibitionYou Say You Want A Revolution? Records And Rebels 1966-1970You Say You Want a Revolution review: a dizzying trip to the heart of the 1960s Flower power, social justice, free love, drug culture: the 1960s was all about sticking it to The Man. Today, we perhaps need reminding that rebellion can make a difference. This V&A exhibition looks back at the successes and failures of the latter part of swinging 60s activism; just how much change was actually effected?Victoria and Albert Museum, SW7, Saturday until 26 February 2017FoodDinner With The TwitsYou can’t see Dahl’s Twits scooping the cash on Come Dine With Me, and this immersive dining event from the Les Enfants Terribles theatre troupe aims to disgust. Only, the food is good, the cocktails strong, and there’s beer made with yeast swabbed from Dahl’s chair. Waterloo Vaults, SE1, to 30 Oct