David Bintley is a choreographer, and since 1995 has been artistic director of Birmingham Royal Ballet. Born in a Pennine village, he trained at the Royal Ballet school, where he created his first dance pieces. These were seen and admired by Sir Frederick Ashton, the Royal Ballet’s founder choreographer. “He’s the only one,” Ashton said, in recognition of the teenage student’s talent. Now 59, Bintley remains a prolific dance-maker, working in both the abstract and narrative genres. His latest work for BRB is a full-length version of The Tempest.Why did you choose to turn this Shakespeare play into a ballet?The Tempest is so full of poetry and imagery, and the characters are so enticing, choreographically. I read it constantly, and re-read the pertinent scene before every rehearsal. We’ve just been working on Caliban’s dream: “Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises/ Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.” It’s Caliban’s great moment of perception. A creature who has always been treated as an animal, talking about heaven. Today, there’s a move back from the ultra-physical towards emotion in ballet Has the piece got a message for today’s audiences?It’s a story about a man who has been wronged, and has lived off the idea of revenge, only to realise that the only path to peace is through forgiveness. It’s this view of forgiveness, of redemption, of letting go of vengeance, that’s so pertinent today. Think of slavery, for example, or the post-colonial treatment of indigenous peoples.What will Prospero’s island look like?The designs are by Rae Smith, of War Horse fame. It’s very bare. There’s a fixed set, which is very stark. I wanted to tell the story through the people, the characters who inhabit it. The setting is the late Elizabethan, early Jacobean era, and we’ve got a shipwreck, a vanishing banquet, people flying… The music’s central to all of this. I’ve been thinking about The Tempest for a long time, and in Sally Beamish I’ve finally found the right composer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bintley, left, in rehearsals for The Tempest at Birmingham Royal Ballet. Photograph: Andrew RossAs a choreographer, you’ve been notable for moving between genres. Story ballets, fairytale ballets, plotless ballets… Growing up with the work of people like Ashton, John Cranko and Kenneth MacMillan, I thought doing everything was what a choreographer did. But even in my most plotless works I’ve tried to capture a spirit, something that moves people. And every great abstract work, like Balanchine’s Serenade, or Agon, tells a story. Those pieces are not just bright and shiny. The whole of life is storytelling. Every hour of every day is an unfolding story, for everyone.You’ve been the director of BRB for more than 20 years now. What stamp have you put on the company?Every ballet company has its personality, its mission. Perhaps we look further back in time than most, in that we do works by Ashton, Cranko, Ninette de Valois and others. The early British ballet heritage is very strongly represented in Birmingham. Also, we have a great tradition of good acting. I’ve always felt that art should touch people, rather than just impress them.Today there’s a move back from the ultra-physical towards emotion – you can see this in the work of other British choreographers like Liam Scarlett and Christopher Wheeldon. Dance-wise, all of the pieces that I’ve created are very much mine, from the abstract work to Hobson’s Choice, set in a Salford shoe shop. You’ve got to be damned for who you are, to stay true to your background and roots.Do you think that there’s a long-term future for narrative ballet?I have no doubt that there is. Ballet began by telling stories – mythical tales of gods and goddesses. People like stories, and they always will. As choreographers and as dancers on stage, we don’t just tell stories, we tell stories through dance. And that’s what I want to keep on doing.David Bintley’s production of The Tempest is at Birmingham Hippodrome until 8 October, then tours to Sadler’s Wells, London (13-15 October), Sunderland Empire (20-22) and Theatre Royal Plymouth (27-29)