British stage triumphs such as the West End’s Harry Potter and the Cursed Child will become a thing of the past, according to two award-winning directors, unless full funding for arts education is restored.Vicky Featherstone, artistic director of the Royal Court theatre in London, and the Olivier-nominated John Tiffany, director and co-creator of the record-breaking Harry Potter play, fear that if current trends continue, a wide range of talent will be lost to the next generation.“A director like John would never have made it if he’d been starting out now,” Featherstone said. “He would not become a director and then a show like the Cursed Child would not exist. I feel really strongly about making this clear.”Potential performers or directors from outside London and from less privileged backgrounds will no longer have access to training and opportunities, both she and Tiffany believe.Featherstone, who was speaking to the Observer after winning a Tonic award for women in theatre for her acclaimed current production of Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour, said: “It would be impossible now for someone with a background like John’s, near Huddersfield. He was able to take a wide range of arts subjects, as well as Latin, at his comprehensive school and was then able to do classics at university.”Featherstone said that the positive impact of an injection of government money into arts education nearly two decades ago would soon end. Even with the best will in the world, she argued, regional and London theatre companies could not be expected to take up all the work once done by schools.“I am happy to go into schools and I do fundamentally believe any arts organisation with public funding should have education right at its core. But we should not be doing it just because national funding of arts education is in retreat,” she said. “The problems come when we are hooked up to education schemes that we haven’t created, just to get funded. That is actually outrageous.”Arts education was definitely in crisis, Featherstone said, but the wider question was about the government’s view of the sector’s value. “All of us know money is tight, but if we could believe that what we do in Britain was valued for all the things it helps with, like shoring up the economy and public health, it would be easier to handle.”In 2000, about £25m was poured into British theatres followed the publication of a report by Peter Boyden Associates for the Arts Council of England. “We are still living off that,” said Featherstone, but we can’t for much longer.”Tiffany, who worked with Featherstone on the hit show Blackwatch during her time running the National Theatre of Scotland, gave evidence to a House of Lords inquiry into barriers in education last month. He said he believed the path he took into theatre had now been shut down. Last week his production of the first stage show to be based on JK Rowling’s wizard series picked up a record number of Olivier award nominations.New figures compiled by the House of Commons library for Tom Watson, the shadow secretary of state for culture, media and sport, have revealed the scale of the collapse in creative education in schools. The number of art, music and drama teachers has fallen by 3,500 since 2010 and there are now 600 fewer music teachers, 1,200 fewer art and design teachers and 1,700 fewer drama teachers.The number of hours of art, drama and music taught has fallen by almost 38,000 in the same time. Yet the creative industries now account for one in every 17 jobs and are thought to be worth £87bn a year to the country.Jack Thorne’s Harry Potter play, created with Tiffany and Rowling and running at the Palace theatre, has been nominated for 11 Olivier awards, including best new play, Tiffany as best director, and Jamie Parker as best actor for playing the adult Harry. Noma Dumezweni is nominated for her role as Hermione, and Anthony Boyle, who plays Scorpius Malfoy, as best supporting actor. It also won nominations for music, choreography, lighting design, sound design, set design and costume design.The Olivier winners will be announced on 9 April at the Royal Albert Hall.