When Full Frontal with Samantha Bee debuts on TBS next Monday, much of the focus will be on Bee’s status as the only woman to currently host a late-night show. Even her own ads have played up the achievement.In fact, the wider world of cable television has welcomed female hosts in recent years, from Chelsea Handler on E! to Nikki Glaser and Sara Schaefer on MTV to Kathy Griffin on Bravo. But while those were pop culture shows targeted at female audiences, Bee’s current events series will probably draw more comparisons to her fellow former Daily Show correspondent John Oliver, whose Last Week Tonight shoots in the same studio as Full Frontal.Daily Show correspondents are most often called on to play a certain combination of blustery and dumbfounded that can make it hard to decipher their unique sense of humor underneath. Oliver’s stint as a Daily Show guest host gave viewers a taste of what to expect when his show premiered; Bee’s job will be trickier. (For her 12 years on the show, her most memorable segment may be her lustily dramatic take on the Fox News talkshow The Five.)“I feel like Sam really does have her own space that nobody has, not just because she’s a woman, but because she’s so good,” said Miles Kahn, a former Daily Show producer who is now an executive producer at Full Frontal. “I’m really looking forward to introducing people to Sam beyond The Daily Show.” From clips shown at a press event on Tuesday, her point of view was clear quickly. An in-studio segment about a Democratic debate had feminist overtones, referring to the “bone-deep sexism of the American people” after a clip of Hillary Clinton, before turning her attention to a Kansas senator’s recent dress code for women in a bit that let her get a bit blue.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Samantha Bee and the rest of the Daily Show cast. Photograph: Brad Barket/Getty ImagesA field piece shot on location in Jordan was as well-produced as any news segment. If the message of the piece was slightly heavy-handed – Syrian refugees are people too! – it was both engagingly told and goofy enough to justify its spot on a comedy show. Bee spoke afterwards about her interest in exploring serious stories that affect predominantly women, like the Zika virus, even though they are “not inherently comedic”.  Like Oliver, she has an outsider’s perspective – the Toronto-born comedian holds dual citizenship, an edge that gives her discussions of US politics and policy a tone that is both globally aware and regionally sympathetic. (She hopes to speak with Justin Trudeau, the new prime minister of Canada, when he visits the States in March.) She also seems keen to take advantage of her weekly schedule to produce longer, more in-depth segments, something Oliver has done since his weekly HBO show debuted in 2014.One simple element that will differentiate Full Frontal is the stark set – no desk or couch, just a long panel of TV screens in the main section, and a large LCD screen to one side. “As a viewer, I am sort of sick of seeing someone sit behind a desk,” Bee explained. “I actually like using my body a little bit more. I find if I’m really stationary, sometimes all the comedy goes into my face and then it’s a really weird performance of me just pulling crazy faces.”A more important distinction will be off-screen; the show’s staffing process – which included blind submissions and active recruitment of writers outside the world of late-night comedy – has resulted in a more diverse staff than any in late night. (In fairness, it’s a pretty low bar.)“Honestly? I could talk for two hours about the process of building our staff,” Bee enthused. “We have a very diverse workplace in general, and I think that we are reaping the benefits of that in more ways than are even calculable because […] just the diversity of the pitches alone is worth waking up for every day.”And like all late-night shows, Full Frontal will evolve over time, something Bee and her producers said they were looking forward to. “The first thing that we wanted to do was create a show that really came from our gut,” she explained after the press conference. “We wanted to build a show that came from a very deep place in our souls, and with jokes on top of that. So I’m really looking forward to putting a show out on the 8th, coming back into the office on Tuesday, and going, OK, now what? That’ll be where we really start to figure out the show.”Full Frontal with Samantha Bee premieres on 8 February at 10.30pm EST.