In Denis Villeneuve’s lyrical sci-fi movie Arrival, a dozen mysterious vessels from an unknown planet appear on Earth. The military sends in the experts: a professor of physics and a professor of linguistics. Their task is to procure the answers to two questions: what do the aliens want? Where are they from? The physicist asserts that “the cornerstone of civilisation isn’t language, it’s science”. But the linguist is not so sure. She suggests that they might try talking to them. The film gently asserts the possibility that the humanities hold the key to understanding an alien culture – that speaking someone else’s language, literally and metaphorically, might be what’s required to avert violent disaster.Sixty years ago last month, CP Snow’s influential, much-debated essay The Two Cultures was published in the New Statesman. He wrote of a “traditional culture” that was “mainly literary”, behaving “like a state whose power is rapidly declining – standing on its precarious dignity ... too much on the defensive to show any generous imagination to the forces which must inevitably reshape it”. He characterised scientific culture, on the other hand, as “expansive, not restrictive, confident at the roots, the more confident after its bout of Oppenheimerian self-criticism, certain that history is on its side...”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   CP Snow’s essay The Two Cultures was published in 1956 Photograph: Jane BownSo much has changed, and yet so little. If there was Oppenheimerian self-criticism from the scientific culture it was based on the certainty of technology’s supremacy – with science, after all, you could flatten a city by dropping a single bomb. But science, it turns out, isn’t actually that germane when the threat turns out to be aeroplane hijackers armed with nothing more technically advanced than a folding knife and a Mace spray. The humanities – CP Snow’s “literary culture” – haven’t much dignity left to stand on, since educational policy in the UK and the US has so aggressively foregrounded Stem subjects (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) after taking fright at the growing ranks of exceptional Indian and Chinese science graduates. And yet the humanities matter. Hegel argued that Bildung – the German word meaning education, or formation of the self – is about keeping oneself open to that which is other. This is the particular role of the humanities, and it is one of the great tasks of our times. The American historian Dr Earl Lewis, speaking at the inauguration of the Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities, in 2014, argued that scholars in the humanities matter “because we help reveal the intricacies of religion ... because we explain the motivation for war ... because through us we explain pain and suffering, triumph and defeat, beauty and sacrifice, love and lust ... because without us there is no full understanding of what it means to be human.”Snow’s division was always too simple. Mathematicians can think like poets, and vice versa. The natural sciences and the human sciences bifurcated into different “cultures” only in the wake of the Enlightenment; early fellows of the Royal Society such as Christopher Wren, with their rapacious curiosity across what later became separate disciplines, would not see the distinction, regarding science as, simply, knowledge – from the Latin scire, to know. Creativity and critical thinking do not observe boundaries between academic departments. In Arrival, the linguist and the physicist work together.This article was amended on 21 November 2016. An earlier version stated that CP Snow’s essay The Two Cultures was published 60 years ago this month. It was published in October 1956. This has been corrected.