1 | Fresh MeatNot content with creating one hilarious Channel 4 flatshare comedy in Peep Show, writers Sam Bain and Jesse Armstrong followed it with this student-com. Six undergrads at the fictional Manchester Medlock University squeeze into 28 Hartnell Avenue, Rusholme: goth hedonist Vod, political posh girl Oregon, “mental dental” Josie, soppy geologist Kingsley, nerdily eccentric Howard and “bantersaurus” JP (standup Jack Whitehall, excelling in his acting debut). They do Jägerbombs, eat “vegetable munge”, skip lectures, form bands, eke out their paltry funds, do lots of partying and even more shagging. After a patchy start, the show blossomed, nimbly blending gags with pathos. Like Peep Show, it’s about to come to a bittersweet end - the fourth and final series airs in early February.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Shallow Grave: the houseshare interview.2 | Shallow Grave“We’d like to ask you about your hobbies. When you sacrifice a goat and rip its heart out with your bare hands, do you then summon hellfire? Or just send out for a pizza?” In Danny Boyle’s darkly comic 1994 directorial debut, Ewan MacGregor, Christopher Eccleston and Kerry Fox are the cliquey trio interviewing prospective new tenants to join their happy Edinburgh houseshare. When their enigmatic new flatmate (Keith Allen) swiftly dies, leaving behind a suitcase full of unmarked bills, they have to decide what to do with the corpse - and the cash. Gangsters and cops descend. Paranoia and jealous rivalries develop. What’s a little murder among friends? Boyle’s late father said of all his subsequent films: “It was good - but not as good as Shallow Grave.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This Life: the first episode.3 | This LifeLike the sexier, less smug little sibling of ITV’s Cold Feet, BBC2’s cult classic ran for just two series yet came to define twentysomething life in the 90s. An enviably spacious Southwark house was shared by five trainee lawyers: ambitious Milly (Amita Dhiri), her dissatisfied boyfriend, Egg (Andrew Lincoln, now The Walking Dead’s zombie-slaying sheriff), gay Welshman Warren (Jason Hughes), arrogant barrister Miles (Jack Davenport) and one-woman Scottish whirlwind Anna (the deity-like Daniela Nardini). Much booze and drugs were consumed, Britpop provided the soundtrack (curated by a certain Ricky Gervais) and 4 million fans tuned in - impressive ratings for the post-Newsnight slot. Let’s politely ignore the disastrous 2007 reunion special and preserve our memories.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Best of Everything: film trailer.4 | The Best of EverythingRona Jaffe’s autobiographical 1958 debut novel was a hit upon publication but gradually fell out of favour - until Mad Men’s Don Draper was seen reading it in bed and it got an overdue reissue. Following five young women working together at a New York publishing house and sharing a “cosy” (OK, tiny) apartment, it’s a fast-talking tale of female friendship, feminist ambition, chic parties and whiskey-drinking womanisers who aren’t quite worthy - a proto-Sex and the City with longer hemlines. The book was adapted into a 1959 film (starring Joan Crawford as the girls’ fearsome boss) and, a decade later, turned into a daytime ABC soap by no less than James (Inside the Actor’s Studio) Lipton.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Notting Hill: film trailer5 | Notting HillIn Richard Curtis’s blockbusting 1999 romcom, bumbling bookshop owner Will (Hugh Grant) shares a blue-doored west London flat with Welsh slacker Spike (Rhys Ifans), an aspiring artist partial to wandering around in his pants and eating mayonnaise from the jar in the mistaken belief that it’s yoghurt. When Will spurns the advances of Hollywood superstar Anna (Julia Roberts, “just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her”), slobby Spike talks sense into him with his insightful verdict: “You daft prick.” Cue a race across town to gatecrash Anna’s press conference at the Savoy, posing as a reporter from Horse & Hound. Spike gets a happy ending too, marrying Will’s sister.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Golden Girls clip.6 | The Golden Girls“Thank you for being a friend.” Like a silvery-haired Girls in sturdier hosiery, NBC’s much-loved mid-80s sitcom (working title: Miami Nice) followed a quartet of senior citizens living together in sunny Florida: acerbic, husky-voiced Dorothy (Beatrice Arthur), ditsy Rose (Betty White), man-eating Blanche (Rue McClanahan) and Dorothy’s mother Sophia (Estelle Getty in heavy ageing makeup), who moved in following a fire at Shady Pines Retirement Home. They bickered, bonded, traded wisecracks and solved each other’s problems over late-night cheesecake. All four stars won Emmys and the ensemble’s chemistry was further proved when Bea Arthur left after seven series. The remaining three soldiered on in spin-off The Golden Palace but it was axed after one season.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Odd Couple: trailer.7 | The Odd CoupleOft-imitated but never improved, Neil Simon’s 1965 Broadway play-turned-1968 film comedy pretty much invented the entire “mismatched roommates” genre. It finds hypochondriac neat-freak Felix (Jack Lemmon) moving in with sarcastic, slovenly Oscar (Walter Matthau) after their marriages fall apart. Soon driven crazy by Felix’s constant cleaning, cooking and housewifey habits, Oscar throws his annoying buddy out - but is promptly consumed by guilt: “He’ll kill himself just to spite me. Then his ghost will follow me around the apartment, haunting and cleaning, haunting and cleaning.” It spawned a sequel, a female-led reboot, three sitcom spin-offs and even a cartoon series starring Spiffy the cat and Fleabag the dog.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest New Girl: first episode.8 | New GirlLike a 00s update of Friends, the hit Fox sitcom (which had the rather more Ronseal working title of Chicks & Dicks) finds “adorkable” teacher Jess (Zooey Deschanel) leaving her cheating boyfriend and finding a new apartment on Craigslist. Soon she’s moving into an LA loft with wannabe womaniser Schmidt (breakout star Max Greenfield), competitive jock Winston (Lamorne Morris) and love interest Nick (Jake Johnson), a law school dropout and reluctant bartender. The gaffe-prone thirtysomethings navigate the dating scene, grapple with career choices and play convoluted drinking game true American, while the three dudes develop a paternal protectiveness towards Jess. Popping dollar bills into Schmidt’s Douchebag Jar or Jess’s Annoyance Bowl keeps their bad habits in check. The fifth series arrives on E4 soon.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest National Lampoon’s Animal House: film trailer.9 | National Lampoon’s Animal House“Toga! Toga!” Based on co-writer Chris Miller’s own college experiences, the members of Delta Tau Chi fraternity house in the 1978 gross-out comedy know how to party. Led by ladies’ man “Otter” Stratton (Tim Matheson) and John Belushi as boozy “Bluto” Blutarsky, they challenge the authority of the dastardly dean determined to “kick these punks off campus”. Our heroes organise Roman orgies, vomit over the dean, sleep with his wife, have food fights, kill horses, smash guitars, gatecrash parades and generally wreak Ivy League havoc. Made on a modest $2.8m budget, the movie became one of the most profitable ever, taking $141m in the US- not bad for a bunch of “fat, drunk and stupid” college boys. Shama Lama Ding Dong indeed.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Young Ones: the party clip.10 |  The Young OnesThe show that brought the 80s alternative comedy boom out of the clubs and into sitting rooms. Four Scumbag College students shared a squalid house: psychopathic punk Vyvyan (Ade Edmondson), depressed hippy Neil (Nigel Planer), shady conman Mike (Christopher Ryan) and Cliff Richard-loving, poetry-writing, pompous anarchist Rick (Rik Mayall). Alexei Sayle completed the cast in a range of cameo roles. Co-written by Ben Elton, it crossed comedy of manners with violent slapstick and surrealism. To qualify for a bigger BBC2 budget, it had to be classed as “variety”, hence musical interludes by live bands like Madness and Motörhead. It ran for just 12 episodes, then was repeated on MTV - one of the first non-music shows to air on the fledgling channel.