How can the arts effect social change? That was the question raised in a conversation about theatre, grassroots and activism that took place at the Senedd in Cardiff last Saturday. This latest debate in the Guardian and BAC’s A Nation’s Theatre series was also part of National Theatre Wales’s Big Democracy Project. There is a long history of performance as activism, from the street interventions of Bread and Puppet Theater to the secret shows of Belarus Free Theatre, or the recent Reclaim Shakespeare Company’s protest against the links between the RSC and BP. The artist Judy Chicago once argued that “performance can be fuelled by rage in a way a painting or sculpture cannot”. Any kind of street-level protest, from an anti-Trident demonstration to the pro-democracy umbrella protests in Hong Kong, is effectively a form of theatre (although in the UK a flash mob is more likely to be a sign of someone trying to flog you something).So when art and activism go hand in hand do they really change anything? The high-profile campaign against the Tate and oil money has certainly had an impact. But can we really expect even the most urgent and rage-fuelled piece of theatre to have audiences rushing to man the barricades and topple governments?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Folk punk activist Efa Thomas.There is not much sign of it in the UK at the moment, despite the ferocious impact of the Tory-implemented cuts on everyday lives, particularly of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable. There has been plenty of political theatre, from Jack Thorne’s Hope at the Royal Court to Chris Thorpe’s #Torycore, but do such shows do anything but preach to the converted?In the debate in Cardiff, the singer and activist Efa Thomas observed that sometimes it’s not just about making protest art but about artists aligning themselves with other campaigns. She cited protests in Wales where those against cuts to the library service were well supported by artists, but those against cuts to services helping people with drug addiction were not. “All these things are connected,” she said.The Turkish theatre-maker and activist Memet Ali Alabora argued that arts events can certainly contribute to political change. He and others involved in staging the play Mi Minör now live in exile in Cardiff after the Turkish government and pro-government media accused the play of incitement and being a “rehearsal” for the 2013 Gezi Park protests in Istanbul, and Alabora had threats made against him. As with the Belarus Free Theatre, using performance as a means of protest threatened to become a matter of life and death. It has certainly changed his life.Such dangers may not exist in the UK, but it’s clear that arts and theatre can still make a difference to people’s lives at grassroots level, even if – as one participant pointed out – there’s few such events happening in rural areas. Is it the case that, like art itself, activism is only within reach of those living in major cities? Maybe not. Geraldine Maddison, from the Forsythia Youth Project in Merthyr, talked passionately about the young people she works with, many of whom have been excluded from other organisations, who “refuse to be written off by their postcode”. They have used art in local campaigns that have not just brought about change within the community but also empowered the young people leading them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Memet Ali Alabora at an anti-war rally in Istanbul in 2006. Photograph: Murad Sezer/APRhiannon White, from Common Wealth Theatre, argued that artists working within communities need to adopt the projects those communities really want rather than vice versa. She believes community art will have changed nothing if it doesn’t have the enduring effect of empowering the community to continue what has been started.Battersea Arts Centre’s artistic director David Jubb observed recently that theatres “over-serve the most advantaged people in this country and risk becoming irrelevant to the many, in favour of the few”. He said this was “a huge disservice to artists and their potential role as change makers”.This idea of artists driving change is a powerful one, and has particular appeal during a time when the right is on the rise, both at home and across Europe. The act of gathering people together is potent, potentially even dangerous. Perhaps a play at the Royal Court, however angry and urgent and edgy, is unlikely to bring about social change on its own, but at a grassroots level theatre-makers can enable communities to come together socially, end isolation, solve local problems and articulate their ambitions. Every time they do so they are challenging the dominant culture and established ways of thinking and doing and proving that theatre and activism are excellent bedfellows, more powerful together than apart.