 MondayWatership Down is adroitly staged at the Watermill near Newbury and offers real pleasures for adults and children. Travelling Light are at the Tobacco Factory in Bristol with Into the West. King Lear at Bristol Old Vic may be uneven, but it has a fine, quietly effective Lear in Timothy West. Unreachable, the new one from Anthony Neilson, is likely to be a hot ticket at the Royal Court. Michelle Terry is terrific in Henry V at the Open Air theatre in Regent’s Park.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for The Hamilton ComplexTuesdayAn all-female cast of Syrian refugees stage a version of Euripides’s Women of Troy at the Young Vic before going out on tour. It’s your last chance this week for Eastern Angles’ family show We Didn’t Mean to Go to Sea, based on Arthur Ransome’s novel, at Hush House in Woodbridge in Suffolk. 2 Magpies asks how far will people go for success in Ventoux, inspired by the Tour de France, at the Bike Shed in Exeter. The Hamilton Complex, which puts 13 teenage girls on stage with a male bodybuilder, is just one of the many terrific shows in Birmingham’s On the Edge festival of theatre for young audiences, which includes the thought-provoking Pim and Theo, the brilliant Wot? No Fish!! and Theatre Lovett’s A Feast of Bones. The Dukes’ annual outdoor show in Williamson Park, Lancaster, this year is The Hobbit. I really enjoyed Phoebe Éclair-Powell’s Wink, and her new one at Soho theatre, Fury, considers the way we judge people, in this case young single mums. Cut, at the Vaults in Waterloo, is an intimate thriller performed partly in complete darkness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fury, opening this week at London’s Soho theatre. Photograph: Soho Theatre & Damsel ProductionsWednesdayAlexander Zeldin’s Beyond Caring, about those keeping body and soul together on zero-hours contracts, is at Theatre Delicatessen in Sheffield. The Lonesome West, the third play in Martin McDonagh’s bleak and darkly funny Leenane trilogy, opens at the Tron in Glasgow. Tess Berry-Hart’s Cargo at the Arcola considers why refugees risk all in search of a new life. Also at the Arcola is Tolstoy’s The Kreutzer Sonata, which stars Greg Hicks.Thursday      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Now Listen to Me Very Carefully, by Bootworks Theatre, opens at at Home Manchester this week. Photograph: Alex BrennerDating from 1992, Robert Lepage’s Needles and Opium at the Barbican explores many different forms of addiction. I loved KlangHaus at the Edinburgh fringe in 2014, and a new version in the foyer spaces of the Southbank Centre should prove just as original as it melds gig with theatre and installation. Bootworks’ Now Listen to Me Very Carefully, about one man’s obsession with Terminator 2, is at Home in Manchester. The rather wonderful Hotbed festival kicks off at the Junction in Cambridge; this year’s highlights include James Fritz’s Ross and Rachel, Steve Waters’ work in progress The Play About Calais and Chris Dobrowoloski’s Antarctica.Friday and the weekend      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rehearsals for The Karaoke Theatre Company by Alan Ayckbourn, opening this week at the Scarborough’s Stephen Joseph theatreGeraldine Pilgrim’s site-specific performance Flight, a celebration of everything airborne, takes place until Sunday at Brockhole in the Lake District, with an accompanying installation continuing until 17 July. Alan Ayckbourn’s The Karaoke Theatre Company begins at the Stephen Joseph in Scarborough tonight. Alistair Beaton’s new play, Fracked!, about a village under threat stars Anne Reid and James Bolam and is at the Minerva in Chichester. The 14-18 Now commission Furious Folly, which recreates the no-man’s land of the first world war battlefields in an open-air performance, is in Sutton Park in Birmingham tonight and tomorrow. From Saturday, Jonathan Pryce repeats his memorable performance as Shylock in the Globe revival of The Merchant of Venice at Liverpool Playhouse. Paper Birds’ Mobile, about social mobility, can be found in Canterbury on Saturday and Sunday, with tickets available through the Marlowe theatre.