The funniest standup I’ve ever seenWatching Billy Connolly at the Hammersmith Apollo in the late 90s was a masterclass of long-form comedy. I also shared a hotel lift with him at the Montreal festival and he was funnier in the time it took us to go up the one floor to the lobby than any of the proper shows I saw that year.The funniest book I’ve ever readMy Less Than Secret Life by Jonathan Ames was a revelation, as shocking as it is funny. The funniest book I’ve ever had read to me is I, Partridge. It’s a brilliantly written book, but it’s the greatest audiobook there has ever been.The funniest numberAssuming Stewart Lee has already told you of the power of the funniest age (28 years old – guarantees a laugh when you are recounting a childhood incident and someone asks your age at the time), numbers aren’t really funny in themselves. Although one of my proudest achievements is getting a big laugh on the phrase “exponential mathematics”.The funniest TV show I’ve ever seenRick And Morty is the most consistently brilliant, densely plotted and enjoyable television show I have ever seen. It’s childish, yet super-clever, without ever being clever-clever. The best character is Mr Poopybutthole, but don’t let that put you off.The funniest person I know My friend Christina Martin always makes me laugh. She writes letters for Viz and is obsessed with the quiz show Bullseye.The funniest item of clothing I’ve ever ownedIn Lee and Herring I used to wear horrendous multicoloured shirts. It was an unspoken parody of that awful thing where people try to use a wacky item of clothing to indicate a personality. Having said that, I also wore those clothes in real life.The funniest wordRelentless use of an incorrect word amuses me greatly to the extent that I now say “skellington” instead of skeleton, even when having a serious conversation with a doctor. Also adding an “S” to the end of a word that doesn’t have one, like your gran used to, is probably the thing that has amused me most for the longest time.Richard Herring: The Best is touring to Saturday 10 June