War and Peace actor James Norton has added his voice to the debate that “posh” actors are dominating the profession, arguing that TV producers are afraid to take risks and tend to typecast actors from all walks of life based on the way they speak.Norton, educated at fee-paying Ampleforth College in Yorkshire and the University of Cambridge, believes he could well have been overlooked to play Happy Valley’s gritty Yorkshire-born killer Tommy Lee Royce if producers had known more about his background.“When Happy Valley first came up, I was in South Africa. So I auditioned on tape and sent it off,” he told the Radio Times. “Which turned out to be lucky as they didn’t know that I didn’t usually speak in a Yorkshire accent. They probably realised once they did a bit of research, but they took the risk and I will be forever grateful.”Norton was educated at the £22,548 a year Ampleforth College in Yorkshire, where he was taught by Benedictine monks, before going on to read theology at Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge. He was cast in Posh at the Royal Court Theatre in 2010, but the 30-year-old has managed to avoid being pigeonholed by his background. His star turn in Happy Valley was immediately followed by playing Anglican vicar Sidney Chambers in ITV’s 1950s detective drama Grantchester.Norton is currently on screen in the BBCs big-budget take on Leo Tolstoy’s epic War and Peace, where he plays the aristocratic Prince Andrei Bolkonsky.Norton believes that TV producers are too quick to stereotype actors.“Producers are afraid of taking risks on actors,” he said. “They somehow forget that actors are there to transform, it’s kind of the point of what we do. So many actors aren’t allowed the opportunity to transform because people have so many preconceptions about them and make so many judgments about them, just on the way they speak.”Leading figures such as Julie Walters and James McAvoy, who paid his own way through drama school, have raised concerns that a career in acting is becoming the preserve of the wealthy.Norton says that there will continue to be a considerable number of posh-sounding actors in the arts because Britain is so good at making period dramas that are globally attractive.How to talk posh: a rarely marvlous glossary “It’s also true that there’s a lot of period drama done here,” he said. “Americans love it, we love it, and we’re good at it. Often in these dramas there’s a disproportionate amount of RP [received pronunciation] speakers. So it follows that if there’s a higher amount of period drama, there’s a higher amount of ‘well-spoken’ actors.”Others have pointed to a generation of stars including Eton-educated Eddie Redmayne, Benedict Cumberbatch, Rosamund Pike and Carey Mulligan as proof that privately-educated actors are dominating the profession.“It’s a real shame, though, when you get somebody like Eddie Redmayne, who is such a great ambassador for British drama – two Oscar nominations in two years, it’s extraordinary – and at least half the press coverage on him is about the fact he went to Eton,” he said. “What’s their point? Are they asking him to take that into account and maybe take his foot off the accelerator for a while? It’s ridiculous.”