Ronnie Corbett’s career is indelibly linked to that of his comedy partner Ronnie Barker, who died in 2005. As half of the Two Ronnies, Corbett was responsible for one of the most famous sketches in British comedy – the Four Candles sketch where a shopkeeper and a customer continually misunderstand each other.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Two Ronnies’ Fork Handles sketchMany of Corbett’s most memorable moments on the Two Ronnies came in his rambling monologues, such as the Parrot Joke.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ronne Corbett tells the Parrot JokeCorbett also took part in classic sketches such as the Two Ronnies’ Mastermind parody ...Ronnie Corbett – a life in pictures    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Two Ronnies’ Mastermind sketch... and the Sweet Shop ...   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Two Ronnies’ Sweet Shop sketchThe Two Ronnies had first performed together in the late 1960s on the Frost Report where, along with John Cleese, they performed another of the most famous sketches in British comedy – the so-called Class Sketch.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ronnie Barker and Ronnie Corbett on the Frost Report with John CleeseThey later reworked the piece with Stephen Fry in 2000.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Stephen Fry, Ronnie Barker and Ronnie Corbett perform the Class SketchIn 2005, Corbett teamed up with Barker for a final swansong as the BBC aired The Two Ronnies Sketchbook.While the two Ronnies formed an enduring partnership, both also appeared in their own sitcom vehicles, with Barker finding success with Porridge and Open All Hours, and Corbett starring from 1981 to 1988 in Sorry! as librarian Timothy Lumsden, a 41-year-old who still lived at home with his parents.The show was notable for the catchphrase “Language, Timothy!” repeated by his father Sidney to admonish his son.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ronnie Corbett’s Sorry! - the 1981 launch episodeCorbett memorably, and to some perhaps shockingly, also featured in Ricky Gervais’s Extras taking drugs in a toilet cubicle at the Baftas.Share your tributes and memories of Ronnie Corbett    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ronnie Corbett in ExtrasIn 2010’s The One Ronnie, Corbett performed with a number of comedy stars, including this fruity sketch with Harry Enfield.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ronnie Corbett and Harry Enfield: My blackberry is not working!As well as entertaining audiences for decades, Corbett also had a lasting impact on modern comedians, and regularly popped up in cameos long after having his own regular series, in shows such as Matt Lucas and David Walliams’ Come Fly With Me.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ronnie Corbett in Come Fly With Me