Ruth Gould, the artistic director of the UK’s biggest disability arts event, DaDaFest, fears that the disability arts sector is under threat from cuts, both to people’s welfare benefits and to organisations’ funding from local authorities and Arts Council England (Ace).“We [disabled people] are becoming more invisible as a result, and the more obvious your impairments, the more likely you are to be out of work,” she says, reeling off a list of disadvantages facing disabled people: “Lack of training, lack of educational opportunities, lack of work, lack of media and arts representation, demise of independent support, cuts in mobility allowance and personal assistance”.“We’re going backwards – and fast – without the previous support that was helping to level the playing field,” she says, lambasting cuts to employment-related help, such as interpreters. The result? “Disabled people aren’t able to take charge of their lives,” says Gould, who is deaf, and lip reads and wears a hearing aid. She recently challenged cuts to her Access to Work entitlement, which would have reduced her lipspeaking support (lipspeakers communicate someone else’s words to lip readers) from 12 hours a week to 23 hours a year. She won 520 hours a year and says: “It shows that you do need to challenge and explain … they’re just trying to cut costs at every corner.” The problem was society disabling me and stopping me from feeling valued The employment rate among disabled people is 46% (about 30% lower than the rate among able-bodied people), but recent Ace figures show that just 2% of the arts workforce is disabled (an increase of 0.2% on the previous year). This highlights the poor representation of disabled people in the arts. Gould, who chairs a panel for Unlimited, a project to commission disabled artists, says progress is “inconsistent and piecemeal”.She is unequivocal about the transformational potential of the creative sector: “Art saves lives. It can change the attitudes of society and of disabled people. Disabled people are seen either as requiring pity or being inspirational, rather than just going about their daily lives and happening to have a disability, which is why our work is vital. So many times I’ve heard: ‘I’ve never seen someone like you on the stage before.’”DaDaFest started life as the North West Disability Arts Forum (NWDAF). Gould joined in 2001 and organised a one-off, week-long community arts festival for Liverpool city council to mark international disabled people’s day. It became an annual event, drawing 10,000 visitors, launched the careers of comedian Laurence Clark and actor Liz Carr, and helped Liverpool win its bid to be European Capital of Culture 2008. The forum adopted the name DaDaFest (DaDa refers to the initial letters of “disability and deaf arts”). Last week, it performed a play, Unsung, at the Everyman theatre, based on the life of the 18th-century blind Liverpool poet, abolitionist and disability rights pioneer, Edward Rushton.The charity has seven staff and its annual income is about £580,000. In 2010, the annual festival became biennial due to funding cuts. DaDaFest is encouraging the next generation of disabled artists. “The idea is that young people use the arts to explore and express their lives, learning skills and working with other young people,” says Gould.Although diagnosed at the age of six with a genetic hearing impairment, it was only in her 30s that Gould regarded her hearing loss as a disability and became aware of equality issues. “I didn’t know any other disabled people and had no notion of disability. I felt that I was wrong, and stupid.” She was bullied at her mainstream school because of the conspicuous transistor-style hearing aid around her neck, which fellow pupils teased her about or disconnected.Experimental operations on her eardrums made little difference, but she memorised enough in lessons to get five O-levels. Gould remembers: “I had ambitions and aspirations but they were dashed”. Careers advisers said her progressive hearing loss ruled out nursing, and the hospital where she wanted to be a physiotherapist said she would put patients at risk. She says: “I was determined I’d help people in my life – people who society often writes off. Maybe that’s what I was really feeling about myself.”Gould took a clerical job. A theatre course inspired a love for communication through movement. Later, she had intensive speech therapy. After a stint performing and teaching in Australia, she moved back to Liverpool and took on arts management roles as disability awareness was burgeoning under the new Disability Discrimination Act. Only when she came across NWDAF did she equate her deafness with disability. “I began to ask myself, does my hearing loss make me disabled? Studying the social model of disability was an epiphany because I realised that I wasn’t the problem; the problem was society disabling me and stopping me from feeling valued,” she explains.Gould feels that attitudes have improved since the 1980s when a doctor chastised her for continuing with her first pregnancy in case her child inherited the condition (he did not). Her daughter, a burlesque performer, is deaf, but advances in technology and attitudes mean her school life was very different from her mother’s.Despite such positive changes, Gould says assumptions about disability linger on in popular culture: “It starts with childhood, with our first stories about witches or dwarves. Every Bond movie has a disabled villain. It perpetuates this thing that people who are different must keep away. We have to give the right messages to non-disabled and disabled people.”Gould’s teenage son is autistic. She says : “I worry that we [the arts] don’t get enough involvement from learning disabled people; I think there’s more control and gatekeeping [from support staff] and often people can be threatened by empowered disabled people.”One solution, she says, could be subverting accepted norms. She recalls an artist friend who suggested she refer not to her “hearing loss” but her “deafness gain”. What has Gould gained from being deaf? “My job. My life,” she says.DaDaFest 2016 takes place in NovemberCurriculum vitaeAge 56Lives Liverpool.Family Separated, three children Education Liverpool John Moore’s University: master’s in social enterprise management; various dance and drama qualifications and diplomas.Career 2001-present: chief executive, then artistic director, of DaDaFest (formerly North West Disability Arts Forum); 1999-2001: creative industries officer, Knowsley borough council; 1996-99 disability arts development worker, Full Circle Arts (disability-led arts organisation); 1996-1997: manager the ACID Fund (Arts and Creative Industries Development); 1994:96: manager, Wirral Carers; 1992-1994: admin worker, Wirral Christian Centre; 1989-1992: freelance artist, Australia and New Zealand.Public life Chair of commission panel, Unlimited (commissioning and support programme for disabled artists); advisory member, National Disability Arts Collection; advisory member, tourism and culture select committee, Liverpool city council; advisory member, the Granada Foundation.Interests Cooking sugar-free, cycling, theatre, disability arts.