It’s the morning after Cate Le Bon’s show in Hollywood and the afterparty’s effects are visible. There’s a massive crack in one of the lenses on her sunglasses. She takes a phone call in Welsh from her bandmate, Huw Evans. “He desperately needs me to bring him a Coke,” she says, sympathetically, then thinks back to how she felt “insane” during the gig. “I was having the most wonderful day yesterday then just before my set I mentally slipped through the floorboards. Jet lag – it’s like free drugs, innit?”Cardiff and Los Angeles may not seem the likeliest of twin-able cities but surreal-pop singer-songwriter Cate Le Bon has managed to tap into both their like-minded creative communities. In other words, she finds the misfits. In Wales, during the era of identikit Britpop, she fell in with Super Furry Animals and Gorky’s Zygotic Mynci, who “exposed me to a kind of freedom that felt punk. They instilled a sensibility in Cardiff that there isn’t one sonic thread tying everything together. You don’t have to adhere to a scene. Do what you want.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Over the past eight years, Le Bon has lived by that ethos. It has afforded her a certain mystique, or aloofness. “I don’t want people to find out that I’m a total dickhead!” she says. It has also meant that she’s been almost impossible to pin down, having released a Welsh-language EP, worked with Aphex Twin and released three solo albums inspired by bands such as Faust and the Velvet Underground. Her punk aesthetic even stretched to a line of merchandise: her last album, 2013’s Mug Museum, was accompanied by a range of mugs, which she made by hand.Cate Le Bon: 'Nico and dead animals. I don't think I'll ever hear the end of them' Le Bon relocated to LA three years ago, and the city seems to have encouraged this freedom even more. At first she was treated “like an alien cos of my accent” but, as in Wales, she soon fell in with a collective of musicians, who bonded over jazz pianist Dave Brubeck, experimental disco composer Arthur Russell and krautrock. Many of them went on to help Le Bon make and tour her new, fourth album Crab Day. Her current lineup includes Warpaint drummer Stella Mozgawa, Mug Museum producer Josiah Steinbrick, Red Hot Chili Peppers guitarist Josh Klinghoffer, and her long-time collaborators and fellow Welshies Stephen Black (AKA Sweet Baboo) and Huw Evans (AKA H Hawkline). They’re totally onboard with Le Bon’s madcap vision, changing costumes halfway through a gig and donning matching mohair hats, which makes them look like fishermen on safari.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Cate Le Bon performs at Blackheath Common, September 2015. Photograph: Gus Stewart/WireImageIt might just be the black coffee we’re drinking, but there’s an unselfconscious liberation to Crab Day-period Cate. After Mug Museum, slogged out over a 10-month tour during which Le Bon admits she “constantly moaned”, and felt pressured by the stresses of turning a profit and the opinions of critics, she decided to wipe the slate entirely clean. A collaboration with garage rocker Tim Presley (who records under the name White Fence) as buzzsaw guitar duo Drinks pulled Le Bon from her negative stupor and she decided to stop overthinking everything. “To try and be original, well, you’re fucked from the beginning,” she says. “All you can do is shut everything out, don’t project into the future, be wholly present.” She pauses, as if she can sense herself sounding “too LA”. “Music is supposed to be fun. It’s easy to forget that.”Warpaint, Cate Le Bon, St Vincent and why rock's future is female Consequently, Crab Day sounds like a celebration of carpe diem revelry – it is, after all, named after a made-up alternative to April Fools’ Day. It mixes jaunty post-punk guitars with sax, xylophone and surreal lyrics such as “Love is not love when it’s a coathanger”. Unlike Mug Museum – which she says was recorded in a studio with no windows – it evokes the sense of rebellion you have when you’re a child faced with a blank paper pad and a pot of felt-tip pens. “I told Stella to play like a three-year-old,” she says, remembering the sessions. She laughs as she recalls her own guitar line on piano-waltz track I Was Born On The Wrong Day. Her producer, Steinbrick, told her it sounded like an animal had played it. “It sounded like a mole. It made us hysterical so we kept it. I can’t play guitar. I can’t! I have no skill, no plan, but I’ve figured out [the] execution. No one can replicate the hot mess I create.”Last night’s hot mess, inside a Masonic lodge surrounded by strange urns and the final date of a transatlantic tour, was equal parts refined and bombastic. Le Bon’s band – who call themselves the Warholish BANANA – started the gig with some art school-style kosmiche-jazz ad lib before they played the new album. Today she talks of how “people’s attention spans have fallen through the cracks”, but her audience had been fixated on her performance, barely raising an iPhone.Le Bon isn’t sure if she sees herself staying in LA for ever, but this is a city in tune with her whimsical desire to make music that doesn’t follow one direction. “Yesterday I felt so lucky to have found these wonderful people in this place so far from home,” she sighs. “Whatever happens with the record, I have to remember that I don’t have to do this. I choose to. I just wanted to make something that captures what an amazing time we’ve had.”I ask if she’ll replace her cracked sunglasses. She shrugs, stubbornly satisfied.Crab Day is out on Friday 14 April via Turnstile