As a Punjabi growing up in West Bengal, the food that my mother cooked involved a variety of flavours from across India. The combination of Punjabi, West Bengali, Gujarati and south Indian cuisine played a huge part in my food education from a young age.Punjabi cuisine is very different from that of West Bengal. The former focuses on tandoor-cooked dishes, dairy products, dal, pulses, parathas and vegetables; the latter on subtle flavours, rice, fantastic desserts and plenty of freshwater fish.All of my friends would come around for my mother’s stuffed parathas and chapatis. They were invariably covered in butter or ghee on both sides, though the stuffing changed with the seasons – I can easily recall at least 20 variations. My favourite was a stuffing of black chickpea flour, onions, lime juice, chilli and grated fresh ginger.My best friend, Reshmi, was just as enthralled with Punjabi flavours as I was with those of West Bengal, and we’d often exchange our tiffins at lunchtime. I’d enjoy her plain paratha or puri with aloo dum, or sandwiches, or Chinese-style fried rice. In return, she’d eat my plain chapati with scrambled eggs cooked with onion and spices, or stuffed parathas served with mango pickle or yoghurt.When I moved to the UK in 1994, I left behind my friends, my family and the food I loved to eat, and I found myself in a country that served inauthentic Indian dishes (such as balti and bright-red tikka dishes). I had to find my own identity again, to navigate my way around this new culinary landscape.Fortunately, Indian flavours are now very easy to find in supermarkets across the UK, but that wasn’t always the case. I’d walk to the local shops and find ingredients I’d never seen before: desiccated coconut (we always used fresh) or small radishes (we only ever ate long moolis). Packaged meat and even the drinks baffled me: I’d only seen my father and his friends drinking whisky or beer, so trying wine and local cider was a complete novelty.I’d never eaten avocados; in fact, I didn’t like the flavour on its own, so I mixed it up with mint, coriander, tamarind, apples and various spices. For me, these cultural and culinary differences allowed me to continue to be creative.The food I cooked started to become very much Anglo-Indian: I’d experiment with dishes such as a cumin-scented beetroot hummus and chicken drumsticks marinated in Indian-style spice blends for summer barbecues. I started to buy meat and fish that I’d never seen before in West Bengal: monkfish, sausages and salami. I enjoyed tasting each new ingredient, working out which Indian flavours and cooking methods would suit their taste and texture. My experiments with flavour were partly to give me the comfort of something familiar, despite being thousands of miles away from home.The three recipes you see here came about as a result of these experiments. In West Bengal, fish is a staple part of the diet, whether caught in the delta of the river Ganges or from the ponds that most villagers have in their gardens.Growing up, I lived in a house with no grill or oven, so everything was cooked on a gas hob – we would enjoy our freshwater fish in curries, or sometimes even steamed in a banana leaf. Things are very different there now, but it was only when I moved to England that I was able to cook fish in an oven for the first time.Whole baked sea bream with red onionsI first encountered sea bream when I moved here: its versatility means that it’s fantastic fried, steamed or baked, as it is here. The combination of citrus, chilli, garlic and soy sauce is the perfect pairing for the sweetness of the fish.Serves 25 tsp rapeseed oil1 red onion, sliced2 garlic cloves, sliced2 tsp soy sauce1 medium sea bream½ tsp chilli flakes1 tsp of smoked paprikaJuice of 1 lime½ tsp black salt3 large potatoes, peeled and thinly sliced1 Put 2 teaspoons of oil into a nonstick frying pan over a high heat. Once hot, add the onion, garlic and soy sauce. Fry it all together for 5 minutes, keeping the heat high, until browned. Take the pan off the heat and set aside.2 Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Slash the fish through the flesh down to the bone, season and sprinkle with chilli flakes, smoked paprika, lime juice, black salt and sprinkle the remaining oil.3 Lay the fish on the sliced potatoes and bake for 30 minutes or until the fish is cooked through. Serve topped with the browned onions.Green apple, coriander and mint chutney Where I would use mango if I were back in West Bengal, here I use green cooking apples, which can be found in abundance across the UK. When combined with the mint leaves, the fruit gives the chutney a beautiful fresh flavour. This chutney can be served with anything but I particularly like it with sea bream and sea bass.Makes 175g50g fresh mint leaves, chopped50g fresh coriander leaves, chopped½ cooking apple, chopped1 small red onion, chopped1-2 small green chillies, finely choppedSalt to tasteJuice of 1 lemon or lime1 Mix all of the ingredients together. Stores in a jar in the fridge for a week.Lemon rice with curry leaves and peanutsAnother school friend, Radha, always invited me to tea when she made this. It’s a simple recipe made with readily available ingredients.Serves 2–4200g basmati rice2 tsp peanuts½ tsp of turmericSalt to taste 20g butter6-7 curry leaves100ml natural yoghurt, whisked Juice of 1 lemon3 tsp grated fresh or desiccated coconut1 Soak the rice for 15 minutes and rinse thoroughly under cold water before adding to the pan and covering with boiling water. Boil for 12-15 minutes, drain and set aside.2 Dry-roast the peanuts with the turmeric and salt in a frying pan. In another pan, heat the butter and fry the curry leaves. Add the peanuts and the yoghurt.3 Add the lemon juice and cooked rice and mix well. Remove from the heat, then leave it to rest for 10 minutes. Garnish with coconut before serving.Romy Gill is head chef-owner of Romy’s Kitchen, in Gloucestershire; @romyskitchen