The Sex Pistols famously played Manchester’s Lesser Free Trade Hall in 1976, apparently inspiring an entire generation of young musicians to change the world. “I saw the Sex Pistols and they were terrible,” said Bernard Sumner of Joy Division and later New Order. “I thought they were great. I wanted to get up and be terrible, too.”Anarchy in the UK: punk's early years What isn’t so well known is the impact the Sex Pistols and their manager Malcolm McLaren would have on the nascent punk scene in Paris a few months later; quid pro quo, it was a fair swap for the situationist philosophers whose ideas drove punk. Playing at the Chalet du Lac on the eastern outskirts of the French capital in 1976, the Pistols were a catalyst to the watching jeunesse dorée, including the impossibly glamorous Denis Quillard and his girlfriend Elli Medeiros, the driving force behind France’s first punk band, a newly formed five-piece named the Stinky Toys. Quillard, known by the sobriquet Jacno – after the designer of the package of his favourite Gauloises cigarettes – left a big impression on Andy Warhol, who used someone’s makeup kit to draw an impromptu portrait of the musician on a napkin at a Paris brasserie. It’s also been claimed he was the inspiration behind Blondie’s cover of the doo-wop hit Denise, by Randy and the Rainbows, retitled and resexed as Denis. Elli also made an impression – on McLaren, who approached the singer in a clothes shop in Les Halles to compliment her on the safety pins that were holding her clothes together. (McLaren was clearly taking notes.) After establishing she was in a band, the Pistols’ manager invited Medeiros’s group to play at a festival at the 100 Club in London with other punk luminaries. Arriving in England with just the clothes on their back, the Stinky Toys asked the Pistols if they could borrow their equipment, only to be turned down. Fortunately, the Clash were more accommodating. Stinky Toys’ appearance led to a Melody Maker cover. They were picked up by Polydor, which released the single Boozy Creed in 1977, though the group’s success was short-lived in the UK, and the same could be said for their native France.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest According to Jonathyne Briggs’ book Sounds French, the Stinky Toys caused considerable angst in France due to their British influences and the fact Medeiros sang in English. (She came from Uruguay and English was her second language after Spanish.) Their authenticity was questioned, which eventually led to them being pushed to the periphery of the burgeoning French punk scene. Nevertheless, they were the first punk band in the country, and for that reason alone they can be regarded as a seminal influence. Their sole album – which Polydor didn’t release outside France – is a riot of hairspray and bubblegum that sounds like a cross between Altered Images and the Rolling Stones. Despite their punk associations, they were a slicker operation than most of their UK counterparts, dressing like beatniks, while Jacno’s attire made him look like an erstwhile member of Kraftwerk.Sounds of France - day one: a history of French pop in 10 songs Kraftwerk make a good point of reference for Jacno’s next venture after Stinky Toys broke up; his debut solo album is one of the foundation stones on which French touch is built, an oddball analogue electro offering that was the antithesis of his previous musical escapades. A mostly instrumental album released on the French label Celluloid in 1979, it features Jacno on the cover paying homage to David Bowie’s Heroes. The resemblance between the pair during that period was uncanny, a fact not lost on Jacno: on the cover, he lifts his hand like Bowie, though contained in it is a sinky toy (the name for the Stinky Toys came from both a love of his own toy collection and the New York Dolls). Less busy than electronic counterpart Jean-Michel Jarre, Jacno’s solo record is a masterclass in minimalism, an ambient synthesiser-based masterpiece of melody. During a phase of orthogonal awareness, Jacno named all the songs after shapes: Rectangle, Cercle, Triangle, Losange (a parallelogram), aside from the gorgeous Anne Cherchait L’amour, sung by Medeiros. The self-titled solo album is testament above anything else to the Frenchman’s brilliance, a milestone in French pop that is revered to this day by those in the know.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jacno went on to have a successful career with Medeiros, as Elli et Jacno, with a slew of European hits between 1980 and 1984, including the massive Je T’aime Tant; the duo broke up when their relationship ended. Virgin released the compilation Symphonies de Poche 10 years later, such was their legacy, and Jacno also inspired a tribute album – Jacno Future – featuring French superstars Dominique A, Brigitte Fontaine and Étienne Daho. He also produced the younger Daho, and had a solo hit with Tant de Baisers Perdus, the lyrics courtesy of Françoise Hardy. He enjoyed a solo career with ups and downs until his premature death from cancer in 2009 at the age of 52, but his first solo chef d’oeuvre immortalises him at home. Perhaps one day the rest of the world will follow suit.