The Night Manager9pm, BBC1What began quietly has gathered a head of steam and now a nation is poised for the dramatic conclusion of this classy, if narratively overly explicit Le Carré adaptation. What it lacks in nuance, it more than makes up for in suspense, not to mention truly magnetic performances. Will Pine escape Cairo with his life? Will Jed succumb to the terrible fate predicted for her? And will Hugh Laurie’s insanely expressive eyes bore clean through the back of the lens and explode the camera operator? You’ll have huge fun finding out. Julia RaesideNatural Born Winners8pm, BBC2A 21st-century take on Superstars that takes itself just a bit too seriously. Former athletes Iwan Thomas and Donovan Bailey team up alongside Welsh rugby star Gareth Thomas and Superbiker James Toseland to test their fitness in retirement in a series of trials their bodies weren’t necessarily suited for in their prime. They’ll cross the globe in their adventures, which will include stickfighting, but tonight they begin in the small Welsh village of Llanwrtyd Wells to take on a gruelling 21-mile fell run. David StubbsPaul O’Grady: The Sally Army And Me6.05pm, BBC1Paul O’Grady has a genius for light entertainment but, as this series shows, his people skills aren’t confined to showbiz. Here, the former social worker toils alongside the Salvation Army, the Christian organisation whose qualities have always impressed him. At ease with the troubled and homeless, O’Grady comes over well, whether he’s learning to wash feet or selling the SA magazine, The War Cry. “Do you wanna War Cry?” he barks. “Go on… ’Ave one!” Try refusing that. John RobinsonOur Queen At 908pm, ITVAlmost as if to spite Morrissey, Queen Elizabeth II continues into her tenth decade, making her the nation’s longest-reigning monarch. This documentary follows Her Majesty throughout the last year, while princes Charles, William and Harry discuss her influence alongside tributes from figures of global repute. Don’t expect to hear many dissenting voices here; given that the term “republican” is one to which few Britons would happily affix themselves to right now, that’s not too much of a surprise. Mark Gibbings-JonesIndian Summers9pm, Channel 4The second series of the glossy if sluggish period piece continues. As antipathy towards British rule builds, Ralph tries to ingratiate himself with the Maharajah of Patiala and his mistress. Elsewhere, a shaken Aafrin umpires a cricket match between the British governors and their Indian subordinates, as his personal life continues to unravel. As per usual, the characters’ own troubles mirror the wider political unrest, with a plot that’s deeply rooted in Raj-era history in spite of anachronistic mentions of “terrorism”. Hannah J DaviesParks And Recreation11pm, DaveAppalled by the lack of women employed by Pawnee city council, Leslie persuades Chris to let her set up a gender equality commission, targeting the sanitation department as the worst culprit. Heading out on the refuse route with April – who takes to bin collections with a zesty brio – she tries to strike a blow for women’s rights. Meanwhile, Ron drafts in Ann to help with watching Diane’s kids, and Tom takes a crash course in basketball from Ben and Andy, with varying degrees of success. Ben ArnoldSecret Life Of Pearls10am, Nat Geo WildWhat with the saltwater crocodiles, venomous sea snakes and stinging jellyfish, the sea off Kimberley in remote western Australia is not ideal for the casual leisure swimmer. So why go in the water at all? One reason is because this area is home to oysters that – in a very few cases in the wild – produce incredibly rare South Sea pearls. This documentary charts the history of the pearl industry, explains how the gemstones form and eavesdrops on some of those who harvest pearls for a living. Jonathan Wright      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Things are looking up: Eli Roth and Brad Pitt in Inglorious Basterds Photograph: Allstar/UNIVERSAL/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarFilm ChoiceKing Of Kings(Nicholas Ray, 1961), 12.25pm, BBC2A timely Easter offering: Nicholas Ray’s intelligent telling of the New Testament sets the life of Christ in a political context –the machinations at Herod’s court in particular – and against a parallel life, that of old crook Barabbas (Harry Guardino), the one who got lucky on crucifixion day. Jeffrey Hunter is a charismatic Jesus but Ray was unfairly scourged by the critics for being dull. Paul HowlettInglourious Basterds(Quentin Tarantino, 2009), 11pm, Channel 4Tarantino’s cranky take on the war movie has lantern-jawed Brad Pitt leading a Dirty Dozen (which include Michael Fassbender and Eli Roth) who murder and mutilate Hitler’s forces across occupied France. Meanwhile, Mélanie Laurent’s Shosanna, lone survivor of a massacred Jewish family, plans a bonfire of the Nazis, Führer and all, at her Paris cinema. Told in a series of vignettes, the tone is uneven, but Tarantino marshals a blitzkrieg of violent energy, wordplay, cine-jokery and delirious, history-bending fun. PHYouth Without Youth(Francis Ford Coppola, 2007), 11.50pm, BBC2Like a fast-rewind Benjamin Button, Tim Roth’s ageing Romanian professor is hit by a thunderbolt and awakes restored to his thirtysomething prime, the contents of his enhanced brain sought after by Nazis and allies alike in wartime Europe. It’s partly a thriller, but much more a bold, bewildering rumination on existence and reincarnation. PHToday’s Best Live SportT20 World Cup Cricket: Afghanistan v West Indies, 10am, Sky Sports 2The qualifiers face the wrath of Chris Gayle with a crunch game between India and Australia to follow. •Premiership Rugby Union: Sale Sharks v Leicester TigersAction from the AJ Bell Stadium. 12noon, BT Sport 1Snooker: Players ChampionshipThe final begins. 12.45pm, ITV4• Tennis: The Miami OpenCoverage of the fifth day at the Tennis Center at Crandon Park. 4pm, Sky Sports 1