Phoebe Waller-Bridge and Kate Tempest have met before, as you might expect of two London-based artists both born in 1985 – though Waller-Bridge was drunk and Tempest can’t remember. Several years on, both have written plays, with Waller-Bridge’s bleak and hilarious Fleabag on BBC2 (it returns for a run at the Soho theatre next month) earning her rave reviews and a commission to write a thriller, Killer Eve, for BBC America. Meanwhile, Tempest’s poetry, her recent novel, The Bricks That Built The Houses, and albums including her latest, Let Them Eat Chaos, have earned her plaudits, including the 2013 Ted Hughes award (for Brand New Ancients) and a 2014 Mercury prize nomination (for Everybody Down). Last week she was shortlisted for the Costa 2016 poetry award.Not that it’s gone to either of their heads. When they meet at the Guardian’s offices, each writer-performer is engaged and fascinated by the other’s way of working. There’s a jokey intimacy to their conversation from the off; here are two women who get each other, even if their voices are completely different. Whether they end up collaborating remains to be seen, but if they do, the work would no doubt be as sharp and dark and funny as the generation-defining projects they have written so far.Phoebe Waller-Bridge So I came up to you and asked if you were interested in doing theatre. And you said, “Yes, I am.” And then we just sort of lost contact. I never got your details. You were like the one that got away.Kate Tempest Yeah. I’m really angry about that, actually.PWB Oh good, I’m so pleased.KT I don’t remember – I’m sorry.PWB I was hoping there would be a boiling resentment between us that would come out. I remember you were just sort of open. The music was pumping and I was going, “We really love you!” and you were like, “Yeah. Cool.”KT “Let’s make some work.” Maybe you’re similar in this, in that I was experimenting with ideas. I did try and write a play very early on, that I got my friends to act out – a play for five voices. One of my mates ended up having to leave. He had to go to jail for a bit. He got released on tag, and we had to go to him to rehearse, because he couldn’t leave his premises. It was a terrible play. Anyway, my point is that there was definitely a desire to start thinking about different ways of staging stories and things.PWB I’m interested in the play: what was it about? The difference between a writer and someone who dreams of being a writer is that the writer has finished KT I’m not going to say. The point is, I didn’t pursue it. Writing a play for a theatre company forced me to battle the difficulties I came up against, in terms of, “How can I do this with such a different form? I don’t know how I can sustain a narrative.” All those things. I don’t know if you have had a similar experience – you end up proving to yourself that actually your ideas can live in other forms.PWB Totally. It’s exactly what happened to me, starting as an actor. Always wanting to write a little bit, but then starting a theatre company. I spent about two years with Vicky Jones, who’s the director of Fleabag, just facilitating and producing people’s work. So we’d go to people who hadn’t been playwrights and say, “You should write a play!” And we’d give them a brief to take all the pressure off, and it was anonymous. One day, Vicky just said, “You do it” to me. It was exciting – dare I try it myself? I had two weeks, and I was going to have to write a 10-minute piece. This tiny little thing in my mind was huge, because of that thing: dare I write? Which secretly I had always wanted to do. A part of me now wonders if I set up the entire theatre company just so I could end up writing myself. I’d go so far as to say I was bullied into writing, but sometimes you need that. Did you feel that? Did you get hooked writing your play? Or did you feel like you wanted to go home?KT Well, it was more that a new pathway had opened up in my brain, where before an idea happened and it only had one form of expression: a rhymed lyric. Even that play, the first scrabbly idea, was all just a long rhyme with five different voices.PWB But were they moving around, or were there props and stuff?KT [Laughs.] There was some movement, yeah.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Waller-Bridge: ‘You’ve just articulated what I’ve wanted to say about the agony.’ Tempest: ‘But it’s also elation.’ Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianPWB Oh God. What I mean is, was it like a staged play? Does someone come in and go, “Hello, Margaret!” Or was it more Beckett-style? You really don’t want to talk about it!KT But then I just brought it up again, so it’s my own fault. It was staged. It was a bit more abstract than “Hello, Margaret!” but yes. My point is that, after writing [my play] Wasted, working with a director, working with a cast: it completely blew my mind. The very collaborative nature of theatre. When I write a poem, I’m telling a story about characters, but I’m not giving them the space to stand up and talk to each other. The first night I watched Wasted being performed, I just had my head in my lap the whole time. I couldn’t look up at it. It was agony.PWB But you were confident about it in rehearsals? Or was it just a complete mess the whole way through?KT I just didn’t have anything to grade it against. It was an amazing experience. And then I kind of threw myself into writing Brand New Ancients, which is something that I needed to do, because it was just my voice.PWB I read that you were given a room for a week at the Battersea Arts Centre, and they just said, write something? That idea that you’re not being indulgent, being an artist, is such a massive step KT They invited me to take some space there. And this thing about being supported by arts organisations, by people who are there to support young talent, to let you know that it’s all right to spend a week of your life writing – I don’t know if it’s still going on. This was 10 years ago. And it’s so important.PWB I think it’s going to come down to individuals fighting for new voices to be heard. That idea that you’re not being indulgent, being an artist, is such a massive step. Especially when you see people going out and working, and you feel like, actually, I want to watch three films back-to-back in case they inspire me, or I want to sit and write about them, or put on a play. It can so easily feel indulgent, and the people who can tell you you’re not being indulgent, that you should take yourself seriously for a second, and here’s a little bit of money… I am worried. We’re completely fucked if the arts aren’t looked after.KT I wouldn’t have been able to write Brand New Ancients without Arts Council support. I wouldn’t have been able to tour it, which was a huge learning curve for me. Having to memorise that much text and carry a narrative, rather than just get up on stage and see what happens. In terms of taking myself more seriously as a performer, as a craft, that was as important as my writing. None of that would have happened. That’s just my personal take, but more generally I feel like the arts are such an important part of how we understand ourselves, how we laugh at ourselves, how we make sense of reality. Listening to a record that you love, reading a novel that you love – it connects you more forcibly into life. For your mental health, it’s extremely important that people are accessing that part of themselves, tuning into other people’s creative expression, expressing themselves.Saying that, under this government, the cuts to benefits and housing and the NHS are more terrifying. I can’t really sit here and say, “Yeah, it’s a travesty they are cutting arts funding” when the NHS is in such a difficult place. If it’s a toss-up between putting a playwright in a room for a week or treating somebody for a serious illness, then I think we should probably choose the NHS.PWB But I think what’s really important about what you’re saying, and sort of poignant, is that art and culture will never be a quick fix for anybody. And yet it’s something that needs to be accessible to people, as a basic human right. I think it’s hard to compare them in terms of what’s more important than the other.carouselKT Yeah, I don’t really know why I made that comparison.PWB I know why you did. It’s important to make that distinction because it’s an easy argument for people to make: people who support arts funding being cut will say there are much more important things. And I think it’s important that culture is this ongoing thing that needs to be nurtured, because there is no such thing as a quick, arty fix.KT Yeah. I think it was Plato that said… [Both laugh.] Fuck it.PWB Our old friend.KT He talks about the role of the artist as a vehicle for the improvement of society. His idea being that if you create beautiful art, it encourages and chimes with the beauty in your soul, which recognises that and aspires to become more beautiful. Whereas if you create a kind of devilish… Well, he wouldn’t have said that, because it wasn’t that time. But if you create something anarchic or messy, or something that chimes with the darkest parts of you, then you recognise and encourage those sides of humanity.PWB Didn’t he also say that performance is inherently dishonest, and that there is a lie in actors standing up and pretending to be other people?KT What do you think about that?PWB I remember being a teenager and saying, “Oh, I want to be an actress when I grow up.” And people saying, “You need to be a good liar – are you a good liar?” It really pissed me off, that idea. Because in some ways you have to be able to pretend, as a writer and as a performer, that the truth of that character is your truth in that moment. But there’s also no getting away from the fact that it is pretend. I don’t think it’s a morally dubious act unless nobody in the room knows that you’re acting. I don’t know: I think it’s an interesting idea which stayed with me, probably because I disagreed with it. What do you think?KT When I’ve met an actor who’s really serious about their craft, it’s opened it up to me a little bit, because obviously I’m no actor. I’ve never been trained that way. But the way I understand it is not as a dishonesty, but that it’s just empathy. A raw empathy with someone who isn’t you, to the point where you’re embodying their experience.PWB How would you feel about somebody else performing your poetry, the poetry that is most personal and close to you? I know you said that, “A poem on the page…”KT How do you know I said that?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tempest: ‘It exists in the moment that it’s read.’ Waller-Bridge: ‘Does that mean having to hear it out loud?’ Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianPWB I heard you say it somewhere else. A poem on the page is half the experience, isn’t it? You said it needs to be spoken, and I love that idea. It’s like reading lyrics and thinking, I’ve heard the song, when you haven’t really – you need to hear them spoken. But is it important to you that the poems… Fucking hell, I should just say this: can I perform some of your poems? [Laughs.] I’m joking. But how would you feel about that?KT Uh, I do think a poem on a page is an unfinished thing. It exists in the moment that it’s read.PWB But does that mean having to hear it out loud? Like your novels: do you feel that they would be better experienced heard?KT I think specifically with poetry. It’s physical and belongs in the body as much as in the mind. It doesn’t have to be read in a big, theatrical fashion – it can be very quietly whispered to yourself, just to get a sense of the sound, the shape. With fiction, when you come across a line that stuns you, you naturally say it out loud. It just happens. You want to read it to whoever’s in the room or just to yourself. I read at quite a pace as well – there’s such a rush of things, I want to hear the way that sentences land. With Brand New Ancients – maybe you find this as well – Kate the writer knew a certain amount about that text, but Kate the performer learned more about it than Kate the writer ever dreamed of.PWB Did they have a conversation about it?KT No, they’ve never met!PWB When I was writing Fleabag the play, I was performing it to see if it worked.KT As part of the edit?PWB Yeah. I’d do it, and then nine times out of 10, I’d go: “Urgh that’s awful.” And then that’s how I would lurch forward…KT When you were performing it, did you find out stuff about the character, about the writing, that you hadn’t intended?PWB I did the moment there was an audience there. That just changed the whole thing. I don’t know if you can feel an audience when you’re performing, but to me they are completely palpable from the moment you step on stage – especially preview audiences, which I kind of love and hate in equal measure, because I think: “Why would you do this to somebody, come and see their work very early on?” And also, “Thank you for being a warm body in a room when I needed that.” Then it would really change – not only because there would be a laugh at a certain point where I didn’t think there would be, but also because I could feel how the words were landing. Suddenly it’s: I have to keep these people in my hand and I have to keep them compelled.KT So how does that work when you’re recording for telly?PWB Oh, it doesn’t. It’s just completely lonely. [Laughs.] I find it very hard – I’m not the sort of actor who “disappears” into myself. And it’s just, like, make the camera follow me and I will be true, and the camera just has to capture my truth. The idea that the camera will have people behind it one day, watching what you’re doing, the lack of that palpable feeling of liveness, the temperature changing in the room with an audience, is absolutely horrible. I felt completely powerless and terrified.KT Healthy. Do you ever write something and go, 'Smashed it, that’s brilliant'? PWB Really healthy. Since Fleabag, I’m often asked about the big topics, feminism and stuff: “How do you feel about sex now?” “How do you feel about how it resonates with your audience?” I find it really hard to articulate because the best articulation of it is Fleabag. That’s what I wanted to communicate – the way that I was feeling, the way that people close to me were feeling and talking about sex. I wanted to create a character who had a front and a confidence about sex that seemed completely impenetrable, and that was how she controlled her emotions and the way she was in the world. And then skewering it by saying, no one can be that confident about it, that relentlessly. There has to be a chink. I felt like that resonated for me and my friends, because I think there’s a guardedness about women and sex now that… I don’t know. I think it was about creating somebody who embodied the argument, who embodied the time.KT I think the point you make about the work carrying all the nuances and subtleties of your engagement with sexuality, or class, or feminism, or politics, or whatever – all of that goes into your work in a way that is so much more satisfactory than reeling off a couple of platitudes under duress, to sound like you know what you’re talking about.PWB Can I ask you, Kate, writer to writer: do you ever write something and go, “Smashed it, that’s brilliant, I’m keeping that, that’s amazing.” Does it get to the point where you can step back and go, “That’s a really good piece of writing” or, “That’s not such a good piece of writing.” Or do you just write it all down and not think of it critically?KT It’s not like, “Wooh, I’m smashing this” but sometimes everything else disappears, and that happens very rarely. The rest of the time, it’s you writing when you don’t feel like writing, writing when you hate everything that’s coming out, forcing yourself to engage with the idea that it’s going to be shit no matter what you do, and trying to kind of break through that because of a deadline, or because you know that it’s very important to continue. This is what enables you to be a writer.The difference between a writer and someone who dreams of being a writer is that the writer has finished. You’ve gone through the agony of taking an idea that is perfect – it’s soaring, it comes from this other place – then you’ve had to summon it down and process it through your shit brain. It’s coming out of your shit hands and you’ve ruined it completely. The finished thing is never going to be anywhere near as perfect as the idea, of course, because if it was, why would you ever do anything else? And then you have another idea. And then these finished things are like stepping stones towards being able to find your voice.The thing is, everybody’s got an idea. Everybody wants to tell me about their ideas. Everybody is very quick to look down on your finished things, because of their great ideas. But until you finish something, I’ve got no time to have that discussion. Because living through that agony is what gives you the humility to understand what writing is about.PWB Shit, you’ve just articulated what I’ve wanted to be able to say for so long about the agony.KT But it’s also elation. It’s obviously also the most beautiful and incredible feeling. I’m in love with it – I can’t imagine life without it.PWB Beautiful agony, yeah. I will never look at a TV show in the same way again. I’ll never be as dismissive. Whenever you try somebody else’s thing and you’re like, “Ooh, that’s quite hard.” You suddenly realise. Though when people go, “It’s an achievement in itself”, obviously they don’t like your work. “But you did it!”KT “You made it!”PWB “You actually made it. That’s the most important thing.” And I’m like, no! That’s not the most important thing. But in so many ways there is a truth in that. The people in the interval who come out and say, “Well, you know, I think…” and then they just go off on this brutal tearing apart of a play halfway through. It hasn’t even ended…KT That’s a valid part of it all, though.PWB We have to criticise, obviously; it doesn’t have to be a negative thing. But it’s the pomposity of people who haven’t dared to imagine or go through it themselves.KT It’s a fucker. It’s the taking part that counts. And I think that’s a good place to finish.• This conversation has been condensed as part of the editing process.