For business inspiration ... 1 One Plus One Equals Three: A Masterclass in Creative Thinking, by Dave TrottNominated by Zak Edwards, the managing director of UK gift retailer Prezzybox.com. He says: “It’s a must read. There are lots of thought provoking scenarios which will change how you look at issues you face in the business world. One such example is when a 1950s headteacher tried to get teenage girls to stop kissing the bathroom mirrors while wearing lipstick. She asked the janitor to show them how hard it was to clean. In front of his audience, he stuck his mop in the toilet and scrubbed the mirrors. In business, sometimes it’s not what you ask but how you ask – there is more than one way to get people to do what you want.”2 Big Magic: Creative Living Beyond Fear, by Elizabeth GilbertDevon-based Julia Bramble, founder of “social chemistry” consultancy BrambleBuzz, says: “Gilbert’s premise is that we’re all creators and that if we allow ourselves to get back into that vibe we’ll be more fulfilled … your creation doesn’t have to be perfect, it’s the art of creation that’s important. For me, it really ties in with entrepreneurship and where business and marketing is now at. Business owners are creators but it’s mighty crowded and we need to stand out – being able to create in a way that shares our passion and brand is becoming an essential business skill.”3 Start Something That Matters, by Blake MycoskieJosh Turner, founder of Stand4 Socks, says the story of Mycoskie’s shoe-brand Toms partly inspired him to start his own business, which invests in planting trees, vaccinating children and providing safe water in developing countries. “The book encourages the movement of ‘buy one, give one’ to all sectors,” he says. “It’s an innovative model but one that merges the charity and business sectors.” Six books to read before launching your creative startup 4 How To Win Friends and Influence People, by Dale CarnegieIt may have been parodied by Toby Young’s How to Lose Friends & Alienate People and turned into a film, but 24-year-old founder of Inkpact, Charlotte Pearce, says the 1936 original is “one of the best books of all time”. It’s “an absolute classic. It’s valuable for life, business and relationships. I have read it countless times and each time I learn something new,” she adds. 5 Do It! or Ditch It, by Bev James Aisha Ejaz, managing director of management company Zenith Street, says: “This book is on my reading list because as an entrepreneur there are a zillion possibilities to explore [and it’s hard to] work out which ones are key to long-term success. I’m interested to read what James’ take is on the ideas that work as opposed to those that drain time and energy.”... and for everything else1 My Brilliant Friend, by Elena Ferrante“I love to read and fiction is my big escape route,” says Anna Mostyn-Williams, co-founder of Curve, which gives users visibility over their bank cards and transactions on mobile. “I recently finished My Brilliant Friend and am trying to find time to read the next three. Ferrante captures the complexity of both female friendship and the fiery (and often violent) passion of Naples so brilliantly.” 2 A Book About Innocent, by Dan GermainOlly Hiscocks, owner of Olly’s Olives, says he loves “the beautiful simplicity” of this story. “These guys had no idea about smoothies but thought they had a good idea and the drive to do it” he says. “It’s not age, intelligence or experience that leads to success, it’s perseverance and belief. I see similarities with my olive story – I didn’t know much about olives but I absolutely loved them and I felt that the olive products out there were all bland and boring. Reading what Innocent has done gives me the belief that I can do it too. You won’t be able to put it down.”Break through the noise: the power of podcasting in business 3 Child 44, by Tom Rob SmithOwner of marketing solutions company, Cocoonfxmedia, James Blackman, says he is normally a slow reader but has finished Child 44 in less than two days. Perhaps the setting has helped – he read it lying next to a pool on holiday. But he admits that a gripping story, such as this one, which is based in Stalin’s Soviet Union, gets his mind working and creativity flowing.4 The Deepest Acceptance: Radical Awakening in Ordinary Life, by Jeff Foster“This is a wonderful book about the true acceptance of yourself, as well as life as it unfolds every moment, no matter what’s going on in your life or business,” says Virpi Venho-Jones, of business Supertreats, which makes healthy treats.5 Sam Walton: Made in America, by Sam WaltonJames Dawson, founder of T Plus drinks (a range of vitamin enriched teas), says: “I’ve always preferred biographies. I usually return to the same few books that were the inspiration for me to quit my IT job and launch my business 18 months ago. Sam Walton’s story is a favourite of mine – not simply because he created the largest retailer in the world from scratch, but the pioneering way he did it in changing an industry. I admire his desire and conviction to take a big industry in a new direction and give the term ‘retail is detail’ a new meaning.”Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.