Newnight US Election Special 8.30pm, BBC2Newsnight moves to primetime to provide a full analysis of the US election result, two days on – probably only just enough time to get a rounded picture of the lasting effects on the US, the Democrat and Republican parties, and the wider world. After a race to the White House that’s often played like exaggerated satire, there is an equally valid summary from Have I Got News for You straight afterwards on BBC1 at 9pm. Jack Seale Rick Stein’s Long Weekends 9pm, BBC2Stein’s travelogues are founded on a simple and unerring premise: that one of the best and fastest ways to understand any place is to eat what the locals eat. This episode finds him in Lisbon, which on the culinary front has the natural advantage enjoyed by all great port cities: a steady and unceasing tide of new ingredients and ideas from all over the world. As usual, this will likely inspire viewers to do some wistful rummaging in cookbooks. Andrew MuellerStill Game 9.30pm, BBC1The revived Scottish sitcom reaches the end of its current series. Jack and Victor enjoy spectating when one of the neighbouring blocks of flats is demolished, as part of the ongoing regeneration of Craiglang. However, when the demise of their own is announced, they think they have landed on their feet: theirs for the taking is temporary accommodation at the wonderful Braemar Care Home. Suffice to say, things don’t go according to plan. John RobinsonRoots, Reggae, Rebellion 10pm, BBC4“Just one of dem ting,” Bob Marley told interviewers shortly after the attempt on his life in 1976. It’s that same sanguine spirit that powers roots reggae – “a message of resistance to oppression, and speaking truth to power,” as Brit rapper and poet Akala puts it in this excellent primer, tracing the evolution of the genre-cum-subculture. En route, the likes of Sly and Robbie, and Big Youth contribute to the history lesson. Ali CatterallUnreported World 7.30pm, Channel 4Benefiting from the brevity of its episodes, this series does a valuable job in giving wider exposure to hotspots of global strife and injustice otherwise overlooked. Tonight, the team visit Haiti’s National Penitentiary, where 80% of inmates have never been convicted of any crime, despite having been in jail for almost a decade in some cases. We meet campaigners and lawyers looking to right this awful injustice. David StubbsMovies In Wartime: Projections In America 9pm, PBS AmericaAs the second world war raged on, a clandestine group of film-makers, led by Oscar-winner Robert Riskin, aimed to use their trade to rehabilitate the US’ image on the world stage once the conflict was over. In this US doc, the story of The Projections Of America are remembered: these included videos of cowboys, farmers and schoolchildren rather than guns or tanks. A fascinating, archive-heavy look at a singular propaganda project. Hannah J DaviesAmerican Horror Story: Roanoke 10pm, FoxSeason six of AHS kicked off as a gory pastiche of lurid true-crime documentaries, before abruptly pivoting into a gory pastiche of Big Brother-style reality TV, albeit one with a blood moon, cannibal rednecks and Lady Gaga as a fecund wood nymph. Series co-creator Ryan Murphy has promised one more big twist for the finale, but in this penultimate episode the remaining survivors of the second Roanoke nightmare attempt to regroup. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceSugarland Express, (Steven Spielberg, 1974), 6.40pm, Film4After the success of his TV movie Duel, Spielberg went back on the road for his first feature with this tragicomic tale of a young couple on the run across Texas, pursued by an ever-growing armada of cop cars. William Atherton and Goldie Hawn are convict and wife trying to reclaim their child, while Ben Johnson plays the police chief. Paul HowlettOne Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest, (Miloš Forman, 1975), 12.15am, Sky Cinema GreatsPatient and nurse clash at a psychiatric hospital in Forman’s Oscar-packed drama. Jack Nicholson is the maybe-mentally unstable McMurphy, Louise Fletcher the icy, authoritarian Nurse Ratched. It’s a deadly struggle, life and guts versus the institution, lightened by some lovely comic scenes (such as the fishing trip). The likes of Danny DeVito, Brad Dourif and Christopher Lloyd make very credible psychiatric patients. Paul HowlettLive sportWorld Cup Football: England v Scotland Sure to be a lively occasion at Wembley as the old rivals meet, albeit in slightly diminished circumstances. 7.15pm, ITVRugby Union: Bristol Rugby v Sale Sharks An Anglo-Welsh Cup game from Ashton Gate. 7.30pm, BT Sport 1Test Cricket: India v England The fourth day’s play in the first Test from Rajkot. 3.30am, Sky Sports 2