So here we all are, Richard Madeley, Judy Finnigan and I, sitting in a dressing room in ITV studios on a sunny morning, trying to figure out the answer to the big question: is Richard actually Alan Partridge in the body of Nigel Havers?Madeley and Finnigan – better known, of course, as the double-headed TV behemoth Richard and Judy – have pretty much been off the air for almost eight years, which amazes me as it feels like they are a part of the British atmosphere, like drizzle and Marks & Spencer. Nonetheless, they live on strongly in the public’s affections for many reasons.They live on in mine for Madeley’s notorious tendency to say on air whatever random thought popped into his head at that moment, and then elaborate on it at length. Lists of Madeley’s most infamous alleged quotes still circulate on social media (to an actor playing a bisexual: “Would you prefer to have sex with me or Judy?”), helping to cement his image as our very own Partridge, with a dash of David Brent (“Do you find that people patronise you? That means they talk down to you.”) Is this unfair, Richard?“Well, I love Alan Partridge! But I do think there is a kind of wishful thinking that he is actually real. So yeah, there is a bit of conflation. But who cares?” he says, chipper as ever, his black-and-white silk scarf bouncing happily against his T-shirt. To prove how little he cares, he proceeds to relate a story about how a man once approached him in Cornwall to tell him: “Everything you have ever said or done, and everything you will ever say or do is fucking rubbish.” (Apparently, the man was from Birmingham but, in the retelling, Madeley gives him an accent that is best described as “generic country bumpkin”.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard and Judy with daughter Chloe and son Jack, when Richard received an honorary degree in East Anglia. Photograph: Chris Radburn/PA“And it made my day! I could see he was so happy to have said it that I felt like I’d done him a service. He thought I was a prat. Fair enough!” Madeley hoots.Every journalist who interviews them says that Madeley and Finnigan are, in person, exactly as they seemed on TV, and this is true. Madeley chatters away, happy to talk about absolutely anything, interested in everything; Finnigan, bundled up in a bulky black parka, sits quietly fighting off the flu and listening to only about one word in 10 that Madeley says, looking downright bored at times. What’s even more unusual is that they look exactly how they looked on TV, whereas most celebrities turn out to be pocket-sized and half as striking as on screen. But here’s Madeley, with his generically handsome face so made for daytime TV it’s hard to take it in without the mediation of a screen, and here’s Finnigan, looking like everyone’s mum.We’re ostensibly meeting to discuss their book competition, Search for a Bestseller, for unpublished writers, with a prize of a £50,000 publishing deal. Ever since the inception of Richard and Judy’s Book Club in 2004, the two of them have, somewhat improbably, become among the most powerful figures in British publishing. But I quickly get the impression that they’re about as interested in talking about this as I am – which is to say, mildly but not wildly. So instead, I ask whether some of my favourite quotes attributed to him are true.Richard, did you once say that you have to rest your “equipment” for 25 minutes after having sex with Judy before starting again?“WHAT?!” cries Finnigan, suddenly rousing herself.Madeley doesn’t bat an eyelash and dismisses it with a definitive: “No, that’s nonsense. I’ve never talked about our sex life.”This isn’t strictly true. They did once, infamously, roadtest Viagra for one of their shows. He later told a journalist about how they took some more at home (“It’s not an aphrodisiac,” Madeley told her solemnly. “It’s an enhancer.”)How about the claim that you once told Bill Clinton that you related to what he’d gone through with the Monica Lewinsky scandal because in 1994 you were accused – and later acquitted – of shoplifting from Tesco?“What was that?” groans Finnigan.“Ah, now, I’ll tell you what that was, and I think it’s completely legit,” says Madeley. He then launches into a long explanation about how he was trying to understand how Clinton could have lied to his lawyers for so long. But basically, yes, he did compare the two experiences.“But I have a nice life, so if some people want to quote me out of context, who cares? Ninety per cent of the time I honestly don’t give a fuck,” he says. (Madeley swears a lot, and it is, frankly, a miracle, with his motor mouth, that he never did on air.)Madeley, 59, and Finnigan, 67, are, and have always been, a highly enjoyable double proposition. They met at Granada TV in 1982 while both were married to other people, and Finnigan, who was assigned to show him around, introduced herself with, “Hello, I’m your mummy.” In 1988, by then married and with two small children, Jack and Chloe (Finnigan has twin boys from her first marriage), they were hired by ITV to host This Morning. Critics were snobby but the viewers loved them, and it was easy to see why: they artlessly carried their marital dynamic on to the screen in a way no TV couple has managed since, no matter how hard they have tried (Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford, I’m looking at you.) Richard with his goofy gaffes, Judy stoically keeping the ship afloat, the two of them always one breath away from a squabble: it was reality TV in the absolute best sense. They felt like the British Every Couple.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Launching their Channel 4 show in 2001. Photograph: Ferdaus Shamin/Sygma/Corbis“It’s not weird that people still see us as Mr and Mrs Married because that’s what we are,” says Madeley, a little proudly.“Television is a great detector of insincerity – the viewers have got to feel like they can believe in you, silly as it sounds. Therefore you’ve got to be open,” says Finnigan with a touch of a grimace, and I suspect that it was partly this growing demand for openness that eventually spurred on her decision to quit TV. When I ask what she thinks of her daughter Chloe’s career as a fitness guru, which seems to consist of her posting constant selfies on social media, Finnigan shrugs: “It seems really strange to me, but I guess that’s the way things are now.”Judy Finnigan: This much I know And yet, for all the openness that they gave, there is, I realise after spending time with them, one part of their dynamic that TV never captured. I have a theory that in every relationship there is the adorer and the adored: one person who worships the other, and one who tolerates the worshipping. Madeley is, it quickly becomes clear, the adorer here. He is endearingly proud of Finnigan, never missing an opportunity to cite her achievements. In one hour he mentions, twice, that, while he left school at 16, Finnigan got a university degree – 45 years ago.“I think Judy’s held in much more affection than me,” he says.“Oh come on!” Finnigan scoffs.“No really! I can sense this, particularly on the radio. If I say, ‘So Judy said to me last night … I can hear the readers pricking up their ears. They don’t care what I think!”Perhaps that’s because Judy’s more private than you, I suggest.“Yes, that’s true, she’s more withdrawn than me. She’s perfectly competent at socialising, of course, but if we’re at a party, she’ll always be the one who wants to go first – always!”“I’m more introverted than you, but you are very extroverted,” says Finnigan, a little defensively.“I think we’re both a bit over the scale – I think you’re a bit more introverted than normal and I’m more extroverted than normal,” concludes Madeley, and Finnigan looks a bit put-out by this conclusion to what was originally a compliment.After leaving This Morning in 2001, they had an early evening talkshow on Channel 4, Richard & Judy, which ran for seven years. Since then, aside from running their still-successful book club, Finnigan has occupied herself by writing novels while Madeley, who always enjoyed the public life more, has done occasional TV and radio freelancing gigs – The Wright Stuff here, Radio 2 there, a possible upcoming gameshow “which I can knock off in three weeks” – and writing books himself. True to their characters, Finnigan’s favourite part of book writing is “the solitude” whereas Madeley’s is “writing dialogue – I love that!”I must admit, I haven’t read Madeley’s novels (he has just finished writing his third), but I have read his autobiographical book about the men in his family, Fathers and Sons. In that, he suggests that long ago family traumas led to emotional repression and unhappiness passed down from Madeley man to man. So I wondered whether his tendency to “bang on a lot”, as he puts it, and make open displays of affection to his wife, are a deliberate reaction against that familial trait.“Hmmm. I do kind of have a dim memory from my teens of making a conscious decision to be a little more out there, which would imply a reaction. I don’t analyse myself a great deal but I think you may be right,” he muses.Yet in recent years it’s been Finnigan who has got in more trouble for speaking her thoughts. In 2014, while making a guest appearance on Loose Women, she said that the footballer and convicted rapist Ched Evans should be allowed to play again because he served his time and “the rape was not violent”. After the outrage on social media, Finnigan apologised.Was she surprised by the reaction?“What?” asks Finnigan, who has apparently tuned out again.“Ched Evans!” shouts out Madeley, helpfully.“Oh,” Finnigan says with a sigh. “Yes, I thought it was bloody ridiculous. I was only quoting the trial judge. But as we all find with social media, these things run away.”Madeley chivalrously steps in to take the heat off Finnigan by talking about his own Twitter hell when he was on The Wright Stuff in the run-up to the Scottish referendum and, as he puts it, “I didn’t say I totally support independence for Scotland.”“And the cybernats went crazy!” he says. “But then I decided it doesn’t matter A FUCK.”I’m more interested in whether Madeley regrets an earlier foray into politics. In 2010, he made a rather peculiar little film in which he insisted that he was sure Blair hadn’t lied about believing in the existence of weapons of mass destruction. (Charlie Brooker described Madeley’s arguments as “a series of flaws held together by consonants”.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   With Tony Blair in 1997. Photograph: Fiona Hanson/EMPICS Sports Photo AgencyAny second thoughts on that?“Not at all! We actually went to Chequers for a sort of weekend dinner party about a fortnight after [the Iraq invasion], and the first thing I said to Tony Blair was: ‘Where are they, [the WMDs] then?’ He said: ‘They’re there!’ And Cherie said: ‘Look, they’re under the sand – they’re definitely there,’ and I don’t think they were bullshitting at all. I remember Cherie saying: ‘Well, actually if they’re not, then our intelligence services and the American intelligence services are a bucket of shit.’ That’s what she said! And she was absolutely right – they were!” he concludes triumphantly.It’s easy to imagine Madeley and Finnigan with the Blairs: the smoothly telegenic husbands, the grumpier, smarter wives. But they insist they’re not “proper friends” and when I ask if they have any celebrity mates, the only one Madeley can come up with is “Ummm, Gloria Hunniford?” Instead, they prefer to live a quiet life, staying in their houses in north London, Cornwall and the south of France.“I’ve never even been to the Groucho,” says Finnigan.“I’ve been once, and I hated it,” Madeley declares. “Just people sitting around braying, disappearing to the loos and coming back again. Horrible! It’s just not us, is it?”This year, to celebrate their 30th wedding anniversary, Madeley’s 60th birthday and their son Jack’s 30th, the Madeley-Finnigan clan are going to the opposite of the Groucho: Disney World.“It’s going to be brilliant – we love Disney World,” grins Madeley excitedly. Some members of the family more than others, I suspect. Finnigan smiles at him indulgently as he describes his love for Florida and just then I notice, glinting on Madeley’s wrist, a shiny accessory: a Mickey Mouse watch. How pleasingly Partridge.Entries for the Richard and Judy Search for a Bestseller 2016 are open until 31 May 2016. 