People stare when Mahina walks along the streets of Dushanbe. Dressed in denim and black leather accessorised with facial piercings, her punk look is a rare sight in the Tajik capital.“Our style is very unusual, even a bit frightening for our country,” she says. “Many passersby tell us they have no idea where this alien culture has come from.”Half the population of Tajikistan, central Asia’s poorest state, is under 30, and most young people in this predominately Muslim nation live according to conservative, patriarchal traditions.The men evading Tajikistan's de-facto beard ban But in the city, punks and heavy metal lovers defiantly get together in a handful of bars and clubs. “Music spiritually empowers us, it gives us hope for a better future,” says Mahina, who declined to give her last name. She plays in a band and estimates there are only 50 fellow punks in the capital, home to around 750,000 people. “I wish people wouldn’t fear us so much – we are not as scary as we seem.”Stalwarts of this tiny alternative scene say that the ongoing economic crisis, now teetering on the edge of a banking collapse, means that their ranks are dwindling.One Tajik heavy metal musician, who goes by the name Jack, said that there was only a handful of what he described as “monsters of rock” left in Dushanbe. Many popular bands had recently split up due to financial pressures, with no sign of a new wave emerging.“Fewer people have been attending rock concerts lately,” he said. “Two years ago at least 200 people could be expected to show up to a gig. Nowadays it would be great to attract 50 people.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The economic crisis has made it even harder for young Tajiks to find work, at home or in Russia. Photograph: Maina Schwarz/IWPRThe local music scene is dominated by Tajik-language pop and folk music, with religion and national values the prevalent themes.“I wish there were more alternative people in Tajikistan, and somewhere to hang out together and create,” says Roman, a graffiti artist. Everyone, he said, “eventually gets tired of fighting against the system”.Making a living remains the priority for most of these young people. The national  somoni currency has plunged in the last year, a situation exacerbated by the economic crisis in Russia, where many Tajiks travel to find work. A job that would allow time to pursue a hobby – let alone make money out of music - remains a distant dream.Then there is the growing problem of Islamic radicalisation, linked to poverty, unemployment and poor access to education. According to official data, 700 young people have so far travelled to fight in Syria and Iraq, with the real number likely to be even higher. Culture is as important as air, without it our young people degradeBakhtiyor Young people say that the government’s cultural conservatism doesn’t help the fight against extremism.“The authority’s attitude [is to] ignore or ban anything in the sphere of modern youth culture. But that risks turning the young generation into a resource for radical Islamic propaganda and unrest,” said a local graphic artist, who asked to remain anonymous.Bakhtiyor, a music producer and veteran of the Tajik hip-hop scene, says that while the government is quick to support footballers, wrestlers and other young athletes, they actively ignore any other niche pursuits. “What about our cultural development?” he asks. He said that rap had the potential to be huge in Tajikistan, with several dozen recording studios already active in the capital.Sor, one of the local scene’s most recognised and respected artists, explained that young Tajiks were familiar with hardship, and art is a crucial way for them to express their frustrations.The country went through civil war in the 1990s and has experienced one financial disaster after another ever since. “Our young people identify with the music,” he said, adding that he had funded his own first recording by shifting cement sacks at the market.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sor also argued that modern music could also be an outlet for patriotism, even if performers chose not to use the Tajik language.“I began rapping in English to make Tajikistan known abroad and enter an international market. Some people serve their country through diplomacy, some through scientific contributions and some through art, creativity,” he said.Bakhtiyor agreed that the alternative scene was making a vital contribution to the country’s development. “Culture is as important as air, without it our young people degrade,” he said. “They thrive though self-expression and self-development.“We are not a very rich country, and many people here had difficult childhoods, so we must help find ways to entertain, educate and develop in a positive way.”A version of this article was originally published by IWPR