Welcome to this week’s blog. Here’s a roundup of your comments and photos from last week – you’ve all kicked off 2016 in force and with books by your side.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph:teamcov/GuardianWitness“The perfect start of the year book” for teamcov has been Notes from the Sofa by Raymond Briggs [see left]: “I’m sad it ended as I would happily continue to read the witterings of Briggs forever.”LeoToadstool finished the year with two short reads from India and Mexico: Vikram Seth’s travel narrative From Heaven Lake and Mexican author Juan Rulfo’s classic Pedro Páramo.The Seth was a joy – an account of a roundabout trip to Delhi from north-western China via Tibet and Nepal, a journey he undertook as a visiting student in the early 1980s. Seth’s an irresistible storyteller; From Heaven Lake is almost a tenth of the size of his magnum opus A Suitable Boy, but it is full of the same wit and compassion found in that later fictional work.Pedro Páramo, on the other hand, is a novel I’d read about – Susan Sontag called it one of the 20th century’s most influential novels and Salman Rushdie recently dubbed it a surrealist masterpiece – and thought I’d squeeze in in the last few days of the 2015. A story of a young man who fulfils a promise to his dying mother to visit her hometown and meet his father, the the character of the title. When he arrives, he finds himself in a place where the worlds of the living and the dead intersect, and so unfolds the story of the downfall of a corrupt landowner and the community over which he lorded. Pedro Páramo is very much a work of proto-magical realism, and its influence on García Márquez and other Boom authors is clear in its dense, lyrical prose, shifting viewpoints and non-linear structure. It’s a probably a work that gains from being read twice, so I may revisit it in the future.Afsoon Afsoonagain’s remedy for the “post-holiday blues” is revisiting older art books:   Photograph:Afsoon Afsoonagain/GuardianWitnessSydneyH has finished The Invisible Man by HG Wells:... which I found very satisfying – a sort of sci-fi thriller without the low-budget monsters. The science Wells invents to explain invisibility also feels more convincing and appealing than his attempts in The Time Machine and The Island of Doctor Moreau, the two other novels of his that I’ve read. I think I’d have to say that I like it more than those two. His prose is plainer than what I usually go for, but he had a knack for wild plots.Tejas Yadav tackled War and Peace just in time ... for the BBC drama:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph:Tejas Yadav/GuardianWitnessInteresting links about books and reading16 Elevating Resolutions for 2016 Inspired by Some of Humanity’s Greatest Minds: Cultivate honorable relationships, resist absentminded busyness, tell the world how to treat you, embrace enoughness, and more – straight to you from Susan Sontag, Maya Angelou, Bruce Lee or Seneca. By Brain Pickings. 80 Books Every Person Should Read: Esquire rectify their infamous “80 Books Every Man Should Read” list ... Or they try anyway. Dark books: “How books can sap the soul and poison readers with ideas.” On Aeon. A Brief History of Books that Do Not Exist: on ghosts and the great invisible library. Recommended by Swelter. on Literary Hub. Sign up to our Bookmarks newsletter If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading, “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here.And, as always, if you have any suggestions for topics you’d like to see us covering beyond TLS, do let us know.