Dan Brown and the Da Vinci Code have been around well over a decade now, and to be perfectly honest, both he and it have become a joke. Parodies of Brown’s style, which one might generously call “workmanlike”, abound. Book critics poke fun at his clumsy mastery of “the cliffhanger chapter, the ooky villain, the histor-ish backdrop.” When the movies roll out, as Inferno will do this weekend, film critics compete for the most withering remark about either Brown or the film-makers who prop up his work.This year’s prize goes to New York Times critic Manohla Dargis, who writes with magnificent boredom: “Once again, this one comes to you from the director Ron Howard and his producing partner, Brian Grazer, who bring clenched-jaw commitment and a whole mess of filmmaking to every project, even the most disposable.” Brutal.Inferno review – say hello to the 10th circle of hell Yet Brown must have few true complaints in life. His books have sold what has to be, by now, a gazillion copies. The films rake in hundreds of millions of dollars. His hero symbologist Robert Langdon is played by America’s most trusted celebrity, Tom Hanks. Inferno is expected to be the big box office hit of the weekend, and this even though it must compete with the frothy likes of Boo! A Madea Halloween and a Ouija board horror movie. In short, the haters, the critics and the skeptics have never managed to get any traction against what is now a cultural juggernaut.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Surplice to requirements: Armin Mueller-Stahl and Ewan McGregor in Angels & Demons. Photograph: Everett/Rex/ShutterstockBut why? Why even now, even as he has often been the butt of jokes, are Dan Brown’s books and movies still so popular? These are questions often asked of the Fifty Shades books, and of Twilight, and other dumb-but-fun global publishing hits. They are less often asked of Brown. Brown came into this world with a posh pedigree. He attended the fancy Philips Exerter prep school, and went on to the very well-regarded Amherst College, where once he reportedly shared a creative writing seminar with David Foster Wallace. You might say his life took an unexpected turn after graduation. As his Wikipedia page explains in excruciating detail, as a young man his ambitions lay not with literature. They lay with the synthesizer. He recorded a few synthesizer albums – with titles like SynthAnimals, Perspective, and Angels & Demons – before deciding to move permanently into the world of letters. As a writer, Brown takes himself very seriously. Here is the sort of thing he says in interviews, this one with the Independent on the eve of Inferno’s publication: “Although I studied Dante’s Inferno as a student, it wasn’t until recently that I came to appreciate the enduring influence of Dante’s work on the modern world. With this new novel, I am excited to take readers on a journey deep into this mysterious realm … a landscape of codes, symbols, and more than a few secret passageways.” One thing that now seems hard to remember – even hard to understand – is that when the Da Vinci Code was published in 2003, it was very well-reviewed. Janet Maslin declared it an “exhilaratingly brainy thriller” in the New York Times. “The word is wow,” she wrote, in case the reader missed her point. And Maslin was hardly alone. “Like a terrific school field trip where you come home so full of knowledge and adventure that you stun your friends and family into glazed silence with great bursts of enthusiasm,” raved the Chicago Tribune. It seems to have taken, in fact, several years and several clunkier books to get Brown the bad reputation he now enjoys among cultural commentators.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tom Hanks and Felicity Jones in Inferno, which the critics said wasn’t too hot. Photograph: Jonathan Prime/PRThe common denominator of those early reviews is that readers appreciated that they were being taught something, while reading The Da Vinci Code. They were learning about Catholicism. Or art history. Or albino monks that attack people in famous art galleries. People love to learn, and they love to do that in the context of a murder which involves a pentacle carved in blood on an art curator’s chest, if at all possible.Brown’s claim to be an authority here has a bit of tarnished. He has been accused of plagiarizing the book at least twice, though in both cases the writers claiming copying had their claims dismissed from court. There is also a considerable body of literature that challenges Brown’s factuality, for even as his book has positioned itself as fiction it takes, as I said, considerable authority from its promise of facts. Much of the criticism comes from Christian writers and historians. They chiefly object to the conclusion of the Da Vinci Code, the thing Langdon finds out after winding his way through counter-intuitive readings of great works of art. It’s been in the cultural air for a decade so I think it no longer counts as a spoiler: Langdon claims to discover that Jesus Christ did not die on the cross, but in fact survived, wed Mary Magdalene, and had a daughter with her. “Dan Brown’s story needs a married Jesus to establish a deeper, more sinister point that he is trying to make with his audience,” railed a writer in the conservative American Spectator in 2006. (Regrettably this lectern-thumping article does not seem to be available online.) “... traditional Christianity is oppressive toward women.” One might see this as less a sinister point than self-evident truth, but no matter. It was obviously their anxiety about that particular claim that provoked so much of the nervous conservative reaction.Still, even less ideologically minded people have pointed out that much of Brown’s view of history is hogwash. For starters, the Priory of Sion, an organization integral to the plot of The Da Vinci Code because it is protecting the secret of Mary Magdalene and her daughter, likely never existed even though Brown clearly thought it did. His plodding, conspiratorial interpretations of the paintings he describes in the book drive art historians to drink. The Mona Lisa, they insist, is just what it looks like, without the hidden meanings Brown attributes to it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Never Brown in town: Dan Brown, right, with the cast of Inferno. Photograph: Isa Foltin/Getty Images for Sony PicturesBut people have since believed it. Over the years religious publications have been filled with reports that church parishioners, after reading the Da Vinci Code, suddenly had a host of questions for their priests and theologians. They knew, of course, that the book was fiction. But even so, they wondered how much truth there was in it. A priest, writing in 2005 for the liberal Catholic weekly America, reported that parishioners had often already heard lectures or read articles that argued against the veracity of the book’s claims. “Attitudes toward these lectures and towards articles that pooh-poohed the claims of the book were generally negative,” he wrote. Less often mentioned, in these articles, is that The Da Vinci Code inconveniently hit the Roman Catholic church right after the devastating series of sex abuse scandals in the late 1990s, and early 2000s. People had good reason to believe the church was hiding something from them. And, ironically, a vast conspiracy that began centuries ago about an abstract church issue – the divinity of Christ – was undoubtedly easier to contemplate than the sex abuse scandal. It was easier to argue about things that happened centuries ago, in the earliest stages of Christianity, than the things that were happening right now, in front of them.So however clumsy Brown might have been, however dubious his history and however ham-fisted his prose, people found in those book a general cause they can believe in. Which is why, this weekend, in spite of the bad reviews, they’ll all still be buying tickets to a long, long film whose action consists chiefly of Tom Hanks furrowing his brow.