Last year I spent some time trawling through old ABC television news stories of people being interviewed about housing. Whether it was Beryl with the beehive hairdo in the 60s, Derek in his flares standing proudly next to his Torana in the 70s, or Greg with the bum-part and the lemon slacks in the 80s, they all complained about the one thing: house prices.Today in the land of the million-dollar median, it’s easy to dream about a golden age when you could chuck a Chokito wrapper in the bin, buy yourself a three-bedroom brick veneer house, plan a caravan trip up the coast and then sit down and watch Sale of the Century. Sadly, there was no such magical time. Economists and historians can argue the specifics of then versus now, but housing affordability has always dominated our national conversation and owning your own home has never been easy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Ross presents Streets of Your Town, a two-part documentary on architecture for the ABC. Photograph: Rod PollardIn the 60s and 70s, our manifest destiny was to turn the bush blocks and paddocks into suburbs, and those Australians who were chasing that old quarter-acre dream headed out into the unknown because that’s all they could afford. It’s hard to fathom that only 50 years ago many of our middle-class leafy suburbs were just a series of dusty gumtreed blocks waiting for the septic tanks to roll in.What made the sprawl of the 60s and 70s so interesting was the manner of how we did it. Suburbs like St Ives in Sydney and Doncaster in Melbourne saw an explosion of architect-designed project homes built in a style that was very much Australian. Our architectural heavy hitters like Robin Boyd, Ken Woolley and even Harry Seidler planned modest and considered modernist homes that were affordable for many Australians.Harry Seidler: Australia's king of concrete and curves Today it seems incredible that an average family could once have made their home in a house designed by our most awarded architects. The houses were small because that’s what people could afford. Many were designed as split-level homes to “cope with the slope”, because blocks of land that weren’t flat were cheaper.Building companies like Pettit+Sevitt and Merchant Builders led the way in marketing these homes alongside the latest designer furniture, and they featured “bush gardens” that reflected what our great painters had been telling us for years: there’s beauty in the Australian wilderness.The success and the popularity of these homes saw traffic jams around display villages on weekends as thousands of people flocked for a glimpse of this exciting new way of living. It was like the first opening of The Block but it happened every weekend.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Houses in the 60s and 70s were small because that’s what people could afford. Photograph: ABC TVOur suburbs were truly Australian and design was “in”. Unfortunately for our suburbs, the lure of the inner city drew away many of the customers for these homes. By the late 1970s, rather than buying a designer project home, they were renovating terrace houses instead.Sydney Open 2016: the city from above and below – in pictures Much can be learned from this time. When the subject of affordability dominates the headlines and the treasurer calls for the release of new land, the one thing that gets lost in the discussion is the importance of design. Those great architects of the 60s and 70s believed that good design could solve many of our problems. With space and land at a premium, if we have a design-led building boom, which makes better and more considered use of what we have, home ownership could be within reach for a new generation of Australians.• Streets of Your Town starts on ABC TV at 8:30pm on 8 November 