Pity the new parents, whose lives have been hijacked by preschool television. It isn’t their fault that they keep humming the Justin’s House theme tune in public, or that they’ve put so much thought into decoding the opening sequence of In the Night Garden that they’re now convinced the entire show takes place in a Lost-style purgatory.This is what preschool TV does to adults. It is so simplistic and brightly-coloured and repetitive that it crawls inside your brain and takes you hostage. These shows are all I ever hear or think about now. At any point in time, my mind is such a clanging din of concurrent Cbeebies jingles that, if you were to listen in on it, you’d be immediately convinced I was a serial killer. This is the hell I have to live with. I’ve made peace with that now.So please don’t discount the possibility of Stockholm syndrome when I tell you that Sarah & Duck is one of the greatest programmes currently on British TV.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   I could watch Sarah & Duck forever. Some nights, when my son wakes up and we have no choice but to draft in iPlayer as a third parent, it feels like I have. Photograph: BBCA new series of Sarah & Duck starts on Cbeebies today and, hand on heart, I’ve been more excited about it than anything else in the autumn schedules. Westworld? Not enough lemon water. The Young Pope? Too few complaints about dry mouth. Black Mirror? Come and wake me when one of the characters is a sentient moon.My God, I love Sarah & Duck. It’s a tiny, perfect, handmade gem of a show. The whole thing aches from all the care that’s gone into making it. A seven-minute respite from the shrieking and boinging that constitutes most preschool programming, it’s a gentle, slow-moving story of an inquisitive little girl and her duck friend. And that’s it.The clean, green and slightly bonkers world of CBeebies | Sophie Elmhirst Well, clearly that’s not it. The world of Sarah & Duck is ever so slightly off-beam, just enough to prevent you from questioning its internal logic. You never question the relationship between Sarah’s dotty old neighbour and her long-suffering bag. You never wonder if Tortoise was born with windows in his shell, or whether he had them installed as an adult. You never ask why a little girl like Sarah lives alone in a giant house, or what must have happened to Umbrella to make him so terrified of rain. These are just things that happen.Sarah & Duck is dusted with such a thin layer of whimsy, such a slight hint of slowly-unfolding psychedelia, that you can trace a direct line back to anything made by Oliver Postgate. The incidental music is so charming that I’d happily buy it and soundtrack my day with it. The narration, soft and paternal and gently chiding, might genuinely count as the best thing Roger Allam has ever done.I could watch Sarah & Duck forever. Some nights, when my son wakes up and stays up and we have no choice but to draft in iPlayer as a third parent, it feels like I have. One episode, the one where Sarah tries to find a new home for an annoying cake, managed to sustain us through an entire five-hour train journey recently. By the end, I knew the whole episode off by heart, and I still wasn’t sick of it. You have no idea what a rare accomplishment that is. We once tried something similar with an episode of Abney & Teal, and now there isn’t a day that goes by where I don’t want to drown those clothy dipsticks in a bathtub.So welcome back Sarah & Duck. Please, never leave us again. You’re my only hope of getting through this alive. 