BBC3Sunny DComic Dane Baptiste writes and stars in this new offering from the online channel, which kicks off tomorrow. In it, he plays a late-twentysomething office worker – also called Dane – who lives at home with his fed-up parents and is in constant competition with his twin sister. But when fictive Dane makes a rum-fuelled announcement at a family party, he might finally have to take some responsibility for his future. Part of the BBC’s Black And British season, this is a new sitcom with plenty of 90s and 00s R&B on the soundtrack and a strong cast: alongside Baptiste, Akemnji Ndifornyen steals the show in episode one as arrogant Christian.New episodes available every Home Truths With Adam Pearson      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverActor and presenter Adam Pearson (pictured) who has a condition that causes non-cancerous tumours to grow on his face – has previously explored disability hate crime and the ethics of freak shows on screen. Now he’s back with a perception-challenging chat show filmed in his living room. In this first episode, Pearson meets Chloe “daughter of Richard and Judy” Madeley to talk body image. Will Pearson – bullied from a young age for his disfigurement – find common ground with the fitness model?Available from MondayBBC iPlayerCulture ShockersA collection of programmes on what the BBC calls “alternative lifestyles throughout the 20th century” – which is a rather polite way of describing skinheads and swingers, among others. Bringing together shows fronted by Louis Theroux, Alan Whicker and more, it’s a deep dive into the docs archives that highlights eight moments that made tellywatchers gasp.Available now NetflixShameless USASomething of a rare feat for a transatlantic remake, the Chicago-based version of Paul Abbott’s Mancunian comedy-drama has a clear identity of its own while remaining as surreal and uncompromising as the original. The fifth season recently landed on Netflix, with William H Macy’s hopeless patriarch Frank giving sobriety a go and son Ian battling a bipolar condition.Available now Amazon PrimeStartUpAmazon’s latest surprise release is this US corruption thriller starring Sherlock’s Martin Freeman and Adam Brody of The OC fame. Likely to draw Mr Robot comparisons, it tells the story of a Bitcoin-esque currency that falls into the wrong hands, forcing a banker, a hacker and a gangster to band together.New episodes available weekly PodcastBlack StarCelebrating the huge range of cinematic contributions by black actors with screenings, events and re-releases, the BFI’s Black Star festival is the biggest ever celebration of its kind. Also accompanying the festivities is this podcast. So far, episodes have focused on pioneering director Oscar Micheaux, star of both screen and music Harry Belafonte, and the first black Oscar-winner Hattie McDaniel, with three more to follow.New episodes available weekly