Getting married is supposed to be one of the best days of your life – but what if it’s not? This week, the 2015 Bake Off winner Nadiya Hussain described her wedding as one of the worst days of her life. “You are literally on show and it’s something I was always really uncomfortable with,” she said.A wedding day can become a disaster for other reasons too, from extreme nerves to the venue falling through. We asked for your stories of nuptial horrors. Here, six people tell of everything from a death to rowdy guests. ‘I hated my dress, my hair and the fact that my husband arrived late’ – Annie, 65, East MidlandsMy husband’s family are Catholic and insisted that we wed in a very unattractive church in my hometown. I actually wanted to have a register office wedding followed by a few drinks in a pub, but I was out-voted. We had very little money and although my parents grudgingly coughed up for the reception we had to pay for everything else. My mother-in-law-to-be was constantly adding further expenses – flowers, organs, choirs. Being young and stupid we allowed this.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We wed in a very unattractive church in my hometown. I actually wanted to have a register office wedding but got outvoted.’ Photograph: AlamyIn the end, I hated the day: I hated my dress and hair, and the fact that my husband and his family arrived late at the church – which meant that I had to wait outside in the freezing cold while our guests became increasingly impatient inside. I hated the embarrassment of having to be the centre of attention and the fact that I dismally failed to live up to anyone’s idea of a blushing bride, a sentiment echoed by two older women standing outside the church who asked me when the bride was arriving. We spent our wedding night in a local hotel in a room with single bedsAnnie My husband was equally miserable and we both felt that the money could have been better used to fund a deposit on a house. We spent our wedding night in a local hotel in a room with single beds. I remember spending a lot of time in there sicking up the wedding breakfast through a combination of nerves, exhaustion and the large scotch my father pressed on me before we left for the church. It was such a disastrous day that we have never felt inclined to celebrate any wedding anniversary since, even though we have now been married for 45 years. ‘I had to grin and bear it but was livid’ – Mark, LondonIt was my now-wife’s dream to have our reception in an exquisite location, with a private garden for kids to play in. So we booked a venue in London and it rained heavily during the church ceremony, but the sun came out during the reception. However, the manager of the venue decided to lock all the doors and would not allow any of the guests access to the garden. I tried to appeal to her, but she would not come out of her office to speak to me. I got very frustrated and angry – not what you want during your wedding reception. Eventually she came down and said it was for health and safety reasons, so guests would not slip and get their clothes dirty. My wife and I were very upset – one of the main reasons for having our reception there was the garden, and no one told us they could lock all the doors if they chose. I would have made a scene if all our friends and family had not been there, but I had to grin and bear it. I am still angry about how it ruined our wedding reception. We console ourselves saying that the rest of the day was great.‘I had to go and lie down during the dinner, and couldn’t eat a thing’ – Amy, 35, WiltshireI used to be an events manager. I have never had so much go wrong with planning before: the dress arrived late, the shoes I ordered had to be returned, the marquee company mis-measured the tables so I had to change the table plan last-minute. The list of problems was neverending. The day itself was beautiful, but we were both shattered and struggled with being the centre of attention. Both of us are quite shy. Neither of us had slept properly for weeks. I felt on edge for the rest of the day, worrying about everyone else. I wish someone had asked me if I was all right – all I needed was some reassurance that everyone else was enjoying themselves. The day itself was beautiful, but we were both shattered and struggled with being the centre of attentionAmy I had to go and lie down during the dinner, and couldn’t eat anything. Looking back I can’t believe how much we had to put up with and resolve in such a short space of time. I wish we could get married again. I’d enjoy it so much more and be less nervous about being the centre of attention.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘I was having wedding-day related anxiety dreams in the run-up’ – Catherine, 37, south-east The run-up was the worst bit. I’d become so freaked out, I was having anxiety dreams: walking down the aisle to find my husband-to-be waiting for me without a head, giant rats in my underground cave ceremony, that sort of thing. This was compounded by not being able to eat for the final month because of nerves.On the day itself, it pissed it down, the hotel “lost” loads of the booze we’d supplied for the evening bit, and the DJ was really grumpy. By the time I went to bed that evening, I was crying because my new husband had gone to the bar with his friends as he wasn’t “ready for bed”. My tears continued the next morning when I said goodbye to all my friends and family sobbing. After it was all over, I felt horrified that I had been sucked into such an embarrassing, narcissistic load of nonsense. ‘A relative died on my wedding day’ – Chloe, 57My husband and I were 23 when we got married. We had the wedding in my hometown in Wales and invited all our friends and then our parents invited all the family. Among them was an elderly uncle of my husband who had been poorly but came. He was in the church for the wedding and during the line to meet and greet, complained of feeling tired so his daughter took him to sit on a park bench where he promptly died as he sat there. Luckily she had the presence of mind to put his hat on his head and just hold his hand while the crowd went by. We didn’t really know anything about it as half the family were doctors who knew what to do. All the family were brilliant and kept saying how he would have wanted to go like that, after having been to church and surrounded by the family.‘I was totally pissed before the nuptials had even begun’ – Tanya, 37, IrelandWhere do I start? My mother tried to convince me not to get married in the middle of winter, but I said no – how bad does winter really ever get in Ireland? The answer: historically bad. Christmas 2010 has become synonymous with cancelled flights, frozen pipes and no drinking water. Amazingly, all of our guests made it to the day, though evening guests cut their losses and stayed at home. The morning of the wedding, my hairdresser arrived early. “Them roads are shocking, you better ring and warn your guests before someone’s killed on that ice,” was her opening greeting. That didn’t help my nerves and so I started on the bubbly, while texting every single friend with road safety measures. I cried a bit. I drank some more. The photographers arrived and remarked that they thought the groom would be there by now but couldn’t find him. I became convinced he’d been killed. More tears ensued, and I downed a third glass. The bridesmaid was dispatched to locate the future husband and on coming back with good tidings I guzzled more to celebrate. Result? Totally drunk before the nuptials had even begun.Now, one would imagine that that was sufficient trauma for one day. But alas, we had chosen a multipurpose venue for our special day. In the function room next to ours was wedding number two, a rowdy and animated bunch. That would have been fine, if the rooms hadn’t been separated by a partition and we weren’t sharing the same bathroom facilities. These guests were stashing their Smirnoff behind the cisterns in the loo, and any attempt to use the toilet by our guests was deemed as an intrusion. The redeeming parts of the day were the service itself, which, despite my being rather drunk was very moving and special. I did keep looking at my husband and thinking, “I am so thrilled and lucky to be marrying you.”Some names have been changed