If television drama were a town, every other building would be a police station or hospital. So viewers should be grateful to Jed Mercurio for spectacularly renovating these repetitive premises. He created two highly original medical shows - Cardiac Arrest and Bodies - before creating one of the most distinctive cop series, Line of Duty, which is about to return for its fourth series.The 50 best TV shows of 2016: No 8 Line of Duty As a qualified doctor, Mercurio, 50, drew on experience for his medical shows. Perhaps because their job involves imagining other lives and deaths, actors are often notorious hypochondriacs. So is Dr Mercurio asked, on set or in the catering truck, to look at a strange rash? “Yeah,” he laughs. “And, if it’s something I think I’d be able to give an opinion on, then I will. But I did the big stuff – dealing with really properly sick people – in hospital, so I’d be able to tell you if you had the sort of rash that might kill you, but I wouldn’t recognise one that might make you itch a bit.”Another benefit to his present career from his previous one is that, in teaching medical students how to make a diagnosis, the terms “narrative” and “story” are widely used: a case-list is a series of plots to be untwisted.“There’s a classic medical aphorism,” he recalls. “‘Listen to the patient, they’re telling you the diagnosis.’ Actually, a lot of patients are just telling you a lot of rubbish, and you have to stop them and ask the pertinent questions. But, yes, in both drama and medicine, isolated facts can accumulate to create the narrative. And that’s also true of solving a crime.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Thandie Newton as Detective Chief Inspector Roz Huntley in Line of Duty. Photograph: Des Willie/World Productions/ BBC / Des WillieLine of Duty, which deals with the investigation of detectives accused of misconduct, is less personally informed than his medical shows, as Mercurio has had only one direct experience of law enforcement. “When we were filming Cardiac Arrest in Glasgow, I was picked up by the police. I was borderline drunk and disorderly after a night out with the cast, standing on the kerb outside a kebab shop, and these two coppers started talking to me. They were really going at me. They wanted me to give them some resistance so that they could take it to the next level. But I stayed polite and focused, and tried to answer the questions. I was in the wrong, but they treated me fairly. So I only have a quite positive experience of the police.”As Line of Duty has been promoted from BBC2 to BBC1 for this run – having, like Cardiac Arrest and Bodies, won awards and enthused audiences – most observers would consider Mercurio to be among the most successful makers of TV fiction. A rare flop was Critical, about emergency medicine, which was dropped by Sky One after a single series in 2015. By one measure, though, Mercurio regards his career as a series of failures.“I’ve never reached the point where I was ready to abandon a series,” he admits. “I’d always have gone on but the broadcaster, for whatever reason, decided not to order more. I’m always looking at things that can come back. Because I find that, once you’ve made something, you have a much better idea of how to make it again. Over the years, I’ve had the best experiences working on returning series. When something isn’t recommissioned, it’s devastating.”Poor ratings killed Critical but, despite good figures, Cardiac Arrest (BBC1, 1994-96) and Bodies (BBC3, 2004-06) – both of which dared to treat the NHS with black comedy – were victims of shifts among commissioners. Mercurio is pleased to say, however, that, in the five years that Line of Duty has been running, there “has never been a problem” between World Productions, the company that makes it, and the BBC. The broadcaster immediately understood Mercurio’s concept for a police series that would use both recurrent and changing star casting.AC12’s anti-corruption officers Vicky McClure, Adrian Dunbar and Martin Compston remain constant but, in each season, new star actors play cops they are investigating. In the latest, Thandie Newton, as a senior detective, and Jason Watkins, playing a forensics expert, extend a line of duty that has previously included Lennie James, Daniel Mays, and Keeley Hawes.Part of the tension of Line of Duty is that viewers can’t necessarily assume, as with most drama series, that a star will last through all six parts: Mays, as an officer accused of an illegal shooting, was gone by the end of his opening episode. A viewer would either need a lot of money or courage to bet on which character will come through, wouldn’t they?“Right. We try to make every season distinctive, and that’s based on the guest characters: the so-called antagonist. What that does is to create a high-stakes story in which you can take that character further than if you need them around for another episode or another season. We’re usually not approaching an actor with the idea that they would return. Generally, what we say to the actor coming in is that they will go through the wringer and, by the end, their story will be told. So that does give us freedom to push the character further than you could if they were in an endlessly returning series.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helen Baxendale as Claire Maitland and Caroline Trowbridge as Liz Reid in Cardiac Arrest. Photograph: BBCThe creation of morally complex characters who prove to be shockingly disposable has become a Line of Duty signature. Others include a show-off opening action sequence and a gasp-inducing closing moment. These touches are deliberate policy. “I think it’s hugely important to have a strong episode one; you can lose an audience so quickly now. You can’t afford to take the attitude that you will use the first one as an introduction and save the high drama for later. These days, you may not have anyone watching by then.”Mercurio is unusual in British TV in operating as a writer-producer-director: a breed, more common in the US, known as showrunners. The next show he will run is BBC1’s The Bodyguard, another spin on cop drama, following an officer in the Royalty and Specialist Protection Unit of the Metropolitan Police, who is protecting a fictional politician. The situation, as Mercurio prefers, brings moral complexity. For example, if driving their charge to an adulterous liaison, the cops are required only to make logistical rather than moral assessments: “The close protection officer does see the private life of the person involved. But only intervenes if they see something illegal or it’s a security risk.”After The Bodyguard, he will write the fifth series of Line of Duty. A potential storyline is already on his laptop, but he also tantalises fans with a cliffhanger about the show’s continuing existence. Unless the BBC commissions a sixth season before he writes the fifth, Mercurio says that he will write series five as the show’s finale. The archive is full of cancelled shows that left plotlines hanging for a next year that never came, and he couldn’t bear that to happen to Line of Duty. So, if the BBC won’t commit soon to more, would he close the show down? “Well, I’d have to write season five that way, and then see what happens next.”Jed Mercurio: My desktop Although the fourth series was written before last year’s seismic political events, it now feels very post-Brexit and post-Trump in its concern with the elusiveness of truth. From the same factual forensic evidence, different characters construct wildly different accounts.“I wanted to write about how you identify objective reality,” Mercurio says. “It has become a big subject because it’s infiltrated society, not just politics. You don’t have to go back very far to a time when someone in possession of the facts had great power. And someone would actually back out of a conversation if they didn’t have the facts or expertise. We’re now in this situation where you can actually talk as if stupidity is a virtue, in which all data is treated as having the same value. It’s something I’ve been interested in for a long time. I’ve been to lots of dinner parties where I’ve heard people say that homeopathy is equivalent to conventional medicine.”Perhaps he needs to stop having so many meals with the Prince of Wales. “Ha! But I’ve experienced those horrible, awkward moments when you start to tell someone that what they are talking about is delusional and has nothing to do with objective reality, and then been made to feel like a pariah. So I have a lot of experience of how people are prepared to ignore objective reality, and use it for their own agenda.”• Line of Duty starts at 9pm on Sunday 26 March on BBC1