How to combat the age-old problem of ageism in Hollywood? More female directors? Less of a gender pay gap? A special taskforce led by Meryl Streep, Helen Mirren and Jennifer Lawrence to persuade the industry that there is more to womanhood after 40 than being a grandmother or a witch?It appears the answer is a landmark law, effective from next year in California only, that permits actors to request the removal of their age from professional entertainment sites such as IMDb. Which, you might say, compounds rather than solves the problem by encouraging actors to hide their age if they want more work. But never mind.In a world in which Susan Sarandon is old enough to be Melissa McCarthy’s grandmother (Tammy) and an unwritten law states that Harrison Ford can only snog women at least 15 years younger than him, here are five of the most offensive/unbelievable/disturbing/gross examples of Hollywood ageism …Maggie Gyllenhaal       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maggie Gyllenhaal: angry. Photograph: Evan Agostini/Invision/APLast year, the actor revealed she had just been turned down for a role in a movie because she was considered too old to play the lover of a 55-year-old man. She was 37. “It made me feel bad, and then it made me feel angry, and then it made me laugh,” she said. Better still was Helen Mirren’s response: “It’s fucking outrageous.”The Graduate, generally      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anne Bancroft was actually only six years older than Dustin Hoffman. Photograph: Allstar/EmbassyThe plot of The Graduate hinges on the seduction of fresh-faced Benjamin by Mrs Robinson, the glamorous middle-aged friend of his parents. In reality, Anne Bancroft (35) was just six years older than Dustin Hoffman (29). And Katharine Ross, playing her daughter, was 26, meaning Mrs Robinson would have been nine when she had her. In a final preposterous twist, Gene Hackman was fired three weeks into rehearsal by Mike Nichols for being too young for the role of the cuckolded Mr Robinson. He was the same age as Bancroft.Meryl Streep       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Meryl Streep as a witch in Into The Woods. Photograph: Allstar/DisneyWhen Streep turned 40 she was rewarded for her reputation as the greatest female actor of her generation by being offered three witch roles. In one year. “I was not offered any female adventurers, or love interests, or heroes or demons,” she said in 2015 when, at 65, she finally conceded to play a witch in Stephen Sondheim’s Into The Woods. “I was offered witches because I was ‘old’ at 40.”Sally Field      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sally Field as Tom Hanks’s mother in Forest Gump. Photograph: Allstar/ParamountIn 1988’s Punchline, after winning two Oscars, Field played Tom Hanks’s love interest. A mere six years later, she had apparently aged enough to play his mother in Forrest Gump, despite there being only a decade between them.Some more impossible mothers …       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Angelina Jolie and Colin Farrell in Alexander. Photograph: Allstar/Warner BrosIf you think a 10-year difference between mother and child is just plain wrong, consider Alexander (2004), in which Angelina Jolie plays mommie dearest to a blond Colin Farrell, resplendent in his white tunic and gilded armour, who is but a year younger than her. Or The Manchurian Candidate (1962), in which Angela Lansbury was two years older than Laurence Harvey, who played her son. Finally, winning an ageist award of its own, is the myth that persists that in North By Northwest (1959), Jessie Royce Landis was ten months younger than Cary Grant when she played his mother. In fact she was seven years older than him in real life. Which is hardly better. • This article was amended on 29 September 2016 because an earlier version said that Jessie Royce Landis was 10 months younger than Cary Grant. This has been corrected.