Coco Chanel isn’t usually in the news much, having been dead for ages, but here she is, back in the limelight being quoted in a racecourse’s attempt to “inspire women”. Thanks racecourse, we have been so lazy recently, you are correct to chastise us.I have never been to Ladies’ Day at the Grand National. I’ve never been to any day there, truth be told, and unless they introduce a Scruffy People Who Believe Horse Racing to Be Deeply Cruel Day and pay me to attend I can’t see that changing. But it’s the women they want to change – into better dresses.The marketing guys at Aintree are perturbed by the increasing unpopularity of Ladies’ Day and after a brainstorming session on how to get women more interested – “Paint it pink? Put it in a handbag?” – they decided last year to blame the women who do attend for not being fashionable enough. Rather than being gratefully surprised that any sentient person would put on heels to stand in a field, in 2015 they announced that it had all got too trashy and rolled out a Coco Chanel quote for guests to adhere to: “Dress shabbily and they remember the dress; dress impeccably and they remember the woman.”Coco doesn’t mention that they also remember the guy who said a woman looked like a “bag lady” at the Baftas, even after he deletes his Twitter profile, but she lived in a different time. People were much less angry on MySpace.Racecourse events and award ceremonies differ in location and number of shootings (I’m sure Madonna’s fall at the Brits would have ended differently at Ascot) but are alike in their unreasonable focus on the appearance of women. Of course men face pressures too, they feel the weight of expectation to be fully dressed – they aren’t allowed in without trousers on, which is ridiculous. For women, style codes are not merely about being smart or presentable, they are a platform for judgment.Coverage of Ladies’ Day in some papers includes photos of best and worst dressed attendees, flashed underwear and drunken stumbles. Why on earth would ticket sales for that event be falling? Surely all any muggle woman wants is to be treated with the disrespect and derision usually reserved for women the public have heard of?For award ceremonies the coverage is wider but the critique no less harsh. Magazines and newspapers alike print strips of side-posing, elbowy women above commentary on colours and styles. Crosses and ticks are applied without restraint or apology – they’re allowed to do this, it’s a completely reasonable reaction to someone leaving the house with a dress on.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jenny Beavan poses with the Bafta for Best Costume Design for Mad Max: Fury Road Photograph: Ian Gavan/Getty ImagesAnd then, this week at the Baftas, an act of subversion. A woman, Jenny Beavan, un-dressed, wearing regular clothes like an actual human being might wear in real life. She wins an award for her craft, she makes no comment or apology for her outfit – a victory!A victory for the girls at home who panic-fantasise about what they would wear to the Oscars if they ever added a “best actor in the background of a YouTube video” category. I’ve always daydreamed how I’d show my disdain for the culture by turning up in a hotel bathrobe with wet hair, like I forgot all about it and then had to rush. But that’s silly; in reality I’d try on 15 dresses that don’t flatter me, then stay at home crying.Not so Jenny Beavan, for a few moments it existed, it happened, we saw it! And as she leaves the podium and is applauded for her spectacular achievements, the host makes a quip. A joke already dissected to a state where there’s little meat left for me to make a point other than to insist that it wasn’t Stephen Fry’s fault. He made an observational comment about someone he respects, a teasing acknowledgment of the usual style of dress at an awards ceremony.But what was heard differed from what was said. For some people, a fear was realised. Join in. Join or don’t come. Any deviation will be commented on. Don’t try to be female and exist without an appraised appearance – you can’t.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Stephen Fry’s comments at the BaftasMuch of the discussion around how people look at women focuses on culture, as if the media is entirely to blame. As if, without magazines and commenting hosts, we’d all suddenly dress in practical overalls and only judge a person on the quality of their charity work and poetry.Like all animals, we have evolved and, like all animals, our evolution has been driven by sexual selection. It’s unfair but true: youth is attractive, curvy women are attractive, outliers who look a bit different to everybody else are attractive. Flat stomachs denote fertility, glossy hair is a reliable signal of health. We look at women to see how good they would be at making babies, it’s a subconscious urge but one that we cannot change.And this means that women feel the weight of evaluating eyes without best-dressed lists, circles of shame and racecourse patronisation. But these exploitations could take a load off. We can’t insist that everyone is equally beautiful, we can’t stop gorgeous people being served first in bars and being more likely to be acquitted of crimes, but maybe we can police ourselves occasionally when we are exacerbating a problem.Let’s stop these silly dress codes and let Idris Elba go trouserless if he wants to.