There are some pretty weird Pixar fan theories out there, including the one about the seminal animation house’s entire canon representing a 65m-year struggle between humans, sentient toys and intelligent animals. But who needs wild stretches of fancy when mischievous animators with far too much downtime have inserted real visual Easter eggs connecting virtually all the studio’s movies?A new Facebook video joins the dots between such unlikely combinations as Brave and Monsters Inc, Finding Dory and Inside Out, and Up and Ratatouille. But if such revelations are not entirely unexpected, here are a few film and TV universes you might never have thought could be so closely linked.ET and Star WarsStar Wars Series (@StarWarsSeries)#STARWARS FACT OF THE DAY: E.T. can be found in "The Phantom Menace" as "Asogians" - a promise made to Steven Spielberg by George Lucas. pic.twitter.com/vBXj9zaNlxOctober 5, 2016Steven Spielberg and George Lucas have always been Hollywood best buddies, so it should come as no surprise that the Star Wars creator co-opted the alien race from which ET hails to appear as delegates to the Galactic Senate in 1999’s execrable The Phantom Menace. Dubbed Asogians by a later Star Wars Expanded Universe novelist in tribute to the kindly alien’s stated home planet of Brodo Asogi in the spin-off novel ET: The Book of the Green Planet, three members of the extraterrestrial race are seen waving their fists as Natalie Portman’s Queen Amidala raises the prospect of a vote of no confidence in Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum in the disappointing prequel. Spielberg himself is said to have first mooted the inclusion, but in some ways the Asogians’ appearance represented a form of film-making quid pro quo. Yoda himself appeared briefly in 1982’s ET - though only in the form of a kid wearing a Halloween costume.Fandom menace: the story threads Star Wars: Episode VIII can't afford to forget The mind rather boggles when trying to make sense of the ramifications if ET and Star Wars really do exist in the same cinematic universe. But it would certainly explains how Elliott’s extraterrestrial other half was able to do that neat multiple-BMX telekinesis trick.Kevin Smith’s View Askewniverse and the Scream movies   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We know pretty much every movie made by Kevin Smith between 1994’s Clerks and 2006’s Clerks II exists in the same universe (with the possible exception of Jersey Girl), but Jay and Silent Bob’s appearance in Scream 3 suggests there are even wider connections in play. The stoner duo are seen during a brief cameo in which they inexplicably mistake Courtney Cox’s Gale Weathers for the newsreader Connie Chung and ask her about Chung’s husband, the TV host Maury Povich. With luck, this means Ghostface can be called in immediately to scare Smith off the looming prospect of Clerks III.Alien and Blade RunnerMatt Hill (@gethill)So Blade Runner's Tyrell was the mentor of Alien's Weyland. Prometheus Blu-ray extras are aceOctober 10, 2012On the face of it, Ridley Scott’s late-70s, early-80s sci-fi masterpieces don’t have a huge amount in common, at least on a tonal level. One is dreamy future noir, the other a kidney-curdling space-set slasher flick starring creatures from an unnatural, hellish otherworld. But they do both feature artificial humanoids in prominent roles, a link that Scott chose to flag up in the Blu-ray extras of 2012’s Alien prequel-of-sorts, Prometheus.Sci-fi and superheroes in 2017: can Luke Skywalker save us from Hollywood's bleak year ahead? One of the Easter eggs featured is a simple MS-Dos-like note from the Weyland Corp founder, Peter Weyland (Guy Pearce in the movie), talking about his preference for robotics over genetic manipulation when it comes to creating android life-forms. “Of course, he chose to replicate the power of creation in an unoriginal way, simply copying God,” laments Weyland of his “mentor and long-departed competitor” (clearly Eldon Tyrell of Blade Runner’s Tyrell Corp). “And look how that turned out for the poor bastard.” Fans of the movie will recognize this as a reference to Tyrell’s unfortunate demise at the hands of Rutger Hauer’s Roy Batty.In a feature on the same Blu-ray titled “Merging universes”, it’s revealed that Scott almost called the corporation in Prometheus Weyland-Tyrell, which would have officially squared off the circle. Even without such touches, it’s possible to speculate that Batty and his pals might have stood a rather better chance against the hideous xenomorphs than the unfortunate space grunts of James Cameron’s Aliens.Daredevil and Teenage Mutant Ninja TurtlesIf Netflix finds itself running out of storylines for series three of Daredevil, Marvel Studios might consider bringing in the pugilistic anthropomorphic reptiles Leonardo, Donatello, Michelangelo and Raphael to liven things up. After all, according to the original TMNT comics, they share the same back story.Inspired by Frank Miller’s groundbreaking early 80s turn on Daredevil, the Turtles creators, Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, borrowed the sightless crimefighter’s origin tale – involving a teenage collision with a radioactive isotope that blinds him but leaves him with sonar-style superpowers – for their new micro-budget comic book in 1983. They imagined that after hitting the young Matt Murdock, the container filled with the isotope ricocheted into the path of a bystander carrying a fishbowl filled with four baby turtles – his pets. In the comic’s retelling of the tale, it’s even possible to make out Murdock getting the first dose of radiation, though for copyright reasons he is never identified. Time for the lawyers to step in and restore the heroes in a half shell to their proper place in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Or at least do something to stop any more abominable Michael Bay-produced big screen outings. Every movie ever made by Quentin Tarantino (and quite a few by Robert Rodriguez)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From Dusk Till Dawn. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/MiramaxGiven the propensity for Quentin Tarantino characters to smoke Red Apple cigarettes, eat Big Kahuna burgers and drink GO juice, this one always appeared to be on the cards. QT even once planned a Vega brothers movie starring John Travolta’s Vincent Vega from Pulp Fiction and his brother Vic, AKA Michael Madsen’s Mr Blond from Reservoir Dogs. There have also been suggestions that Donnie “Bear Jew” Donowitz from Inglourious Basterds is daddy to the coke-sniffing movie producer Lee Donowitz in True Romance, while Uma Thurman’s Pulp Fiction monologue about her canceled TV show Fox Force Five bears an uncanny resemblance to the plot of Kill Bill.Tarantino told the Australian TV news show The Project last year that there are, in fact, two movie universes in his canon. “There is the realer than real universe, all right, and all the characters inhabit that one,” he said. “But then there’s this movie universe. So From Dusk Till Dawn, Kill Bill, they all take place in this special movie universe. So when all the characters of Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction, when they go to the movies, Kill Bill is what they go to see. From Dusk Till Dawn is what they see.”Furthermore, there’s an argument that Tarantino’s movies also connect to those of Robert Rodriguez, via the latter’s QT-scripted From Dusk Till Dawn and the Grindhouse movies. The most obvious example of this link is the Texas ranger Earl McGraw (played by Michael Parks), who first appeared in From Dusk Till Dawn before appearing in Tarantino’s Kill Bill Volume 1 despite having been killed off in the earlier movie. Parks’ son James then played McGraw’s son Edgar (stay with me) in From Dusk Till Dawn 2: Texas Blood Money, as well as in the Grindhouse double-header Death Proof (Tarantino) and Planet Terror (Rodriguez). If your brain hasn’t already melted, there’s even a further link between Rodriguez’s Spy Kids movies and the Tarantino-verse. Danny Trejo’s Machete appeared in a fake trailer in Grindhouse, two standalone movies and all four Spy Kids films. We think this means that if the cute mini-secret agents ever go to the cinema, their only options, both deeply unsuitable, will be a jaunt through Mexico in the company of the living dead, or a samurai-inspired epic of lopped off, blood-spurting limbs and vengeful eye removal.The Wire and The X-Files      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Munch has showed up in at least nine different shows. Photograph: Will Hart/fiveThe character of John Munch, played by Richard Belzer, is remarkable for having appeared in at least nine different shows on five different television networks since his debut appearance in The Wire forerunner Homicide: Life on the Streets in 1993. Upon Homicide’s cancellation, Munch moved to New York to appear in 16 seasons of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, but he was back on the mean streets of Baltimore in season five of The Wire, where he can be seen arguing with a bartender at the cop hangout Kavanaugh’s. A renowned conspiracy theorist, Munch also appeared in the offbeat, Baltimore-set 1997 X-Files episode Unusual Suspects, dedicated to the trio of counter-culture conspiracy nuts known as the Lone Gunmen who occasionally help Mulder and Scully with their investigations. We think this means the whole of drug-ridden noughties Baltimore is the first stage in a terrifying alien plan to take over the Earth, with Jimmy McNulty as their human stooge proxy leader.