Richard III, Shakespeare’s tragi-history about a tyrant’s rise to power, is inherently, though not potently, political.Richard’s physical disabilities (notably, a hunched back) have rendered him a laughing stock, an un-serious prospect for ultimate rule. So he brilliantly and bloodily sets about proving everyone wrong – and he does it with a smile. Kate Mulvany, celebrated actor and writer, is Richard in this Bell Shakespeare production, and she’s chilling. Childhood cancer left Mulvany with a spinal malformation she usually takes great pains to disguise on stage, but here she sheds tricks of costuming and light to perform as is, and force the audience to reckon with the physicality of Richard’s life and disability. Betroffenheit review – trauma and grief shape a startling, disturbing performance The play’s villain is also its protagonist, walking us through Richard’s unforgiving desire for, and rise to, terrifying power, and Mulvany revels in that rise. It’s possible this performance will create in some audience members a new empathy for Richard, but the most striking thing about Mulvany here isn’t her posture: it’s her tremendous malfeasance.Her Richard is voracious, always eating – strawberries and sweets – but never sated by food, blood or sexual conquest. Cruelly misogynist and self-obsessed, her Richard is nevertheless blessed with a great and sparking charm that’s so pleasing you almost don’t notice, or care, about his malevolence.  It’s no surprise that director Peter Evans, who is also Bell Shakespeare’s artistic director, has sensed parallels between Richard’s rise to power and the current global climate, and invited onstage an actor who can relate to the impact of disability on Richard’s life. But in a Q&A located in the show’s program, he describes his new take as “completely about Trump”. This never rings true onstage. It’s a cohesive and confident production, nicely paced and well-performed. But Mulvany’s Richard is so singular and subtle (per Shakespeare’s frequent description of the man) that it doesn’t align with Trump’s highly public profile and bombast at all.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The aides of Richard III: shades of Robert Menzies’ ‘faceless men’. Photograph: Prudence Upton By confining the action to one room – part inner sanctum, part war room – Evans attempts to create a conveyor belt of machinations. Every new advancement in Richard’s human chess game is greeted with the same celebration, the exact same choreography down to the beat, but there are no visual or script-adjustment cues that nod to Trump’s particular views of his opponents or the public. And with scene transitions marked by the ensemble singing English hymns, we have no sense of a connection to an American campaign; the direction remains stubbornly benign and devoted to a generic time and place. The male ensemble rotate through the smaller, expendable nobles all eventually destroyed by Richard, differentiating between character by removal of jacket or straightening a tie; shades of Robert Menzies’ “faceless men”, those unseen politicos making all the real decisions in swanky rooms, out of the eyes of the public – or perhaps it’s reference to the advisers who circle Trump, proffering opinion and expertise for Trump to use and then discard.The only constants are the women, who hold on to their own roles for the duration (with the exception of Rose Riley’s delightful double-duty as Lady Anne and the young Prince). They all – Riley, Meredith Penman as Queen Elizabeth, Sandy Gore as Queen Margaret, and Sarah Woods as Duchess of York – deliver finely crafted, generously open-hearted performances. In his speech at the opening night reception, Evans suggested this choice to keep the women in single roles – and, more broadly, his production as a whole – was designed to honour and highlight Shakespeare’s women. This is separate from the casting choice of Mulvany as Richard, which is not a choice designed to challenge gender: Evans’ production and Anna Cordingley’s design is traditionally masculine – it seems to tell us Mulvany and Richard must not be read as female and not have Richard’s kissing Lady Anne read as queer.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Evans’ production and Anna Cordingley’s design is traditionally masculine. Photograph: Prudence Upton Of course, these women – full of pain and continually abused – are tools of emotional labour and manipulation in the story; you can’t “flesh out” their roles beyond the text, and in the text they are there to serve as examples of Richard’s brutality. The more you highlight the women, the more you highlight that they’re little more than narrative punching bags. In his speech, Evans also apologised for his male voice on the microphone, as he wished to place more emphasis on women’s voices in this production. If he truly meant that, as artistic director of Bell Shakespeare, he could have hired a woman to direct and therefore speak at opening night. Why make statements the production can’t support? Better not to do that and let this production play straight. It won’t disappoint Shakespeare fans or students; Mulvany is astonishing, and the text is treated with clarity and care.  But maybe lip service to relevance is all Shakespeare can be these days, especially in the context of a national classical company – how much room is there for real, immediate relevance, political or otherwise? American Idiot review – Green Day's rock opera premieres in Australia with a Trumpian twist  Shakespeare’s work has continuing appeal only because it reaches out more broadly beyond history and period settings, using emotional hooks to dramatise and emphasise the human and the emotional, even though the figures onstage are kings or fighting literal sword battles. Doubling down on any additional urgent relevance here, without radically re-situating the production or adapting the text, seems like an attempt to dress this up as something it isn’t – something of genuine political importance.• Bell Shakespeare’s Richard III is showing at the Sydney Opera House from 25 February until 1 April, Canberra Theatre Centre from 6–15 April, and Arts Centre Melbourne from 20 April until 7 May