Emma Watson is taking legal action after private photos of the star were allegedly stolen and leaked online.Emma Watson: feminist to the core or carefully polished brand? | the Observer profile “Photos from a clothes fitting Emma had with a stylist a couple of years ago have been stolen,” her publicist said. “They are not nude photographs. Lawyers have been instructed and we are not commenting further.”Reports suggest that the pictures have been shared on the so-called “dark web” – an encrypted network not easily accessible by the average user.The Harry Potter star is the latest actor to be the focus of a leaked photo scandal and confirmation of legal involvement follows the recent nine-month sentence handed to Edward Majerczyk, the man who hacked the phone of Jennifer Lawrence among others.Watson has previously been threatened with the leak of nude pictures as retaliation for her speech about gender equality as a UN ambassador for women. “I knew it was a hoax, I knew the pictures didn’t exist,” Watson said. “The minute I stepped up and talked about women’s rights I was immediately threatened, within less than 12 hours I was receiving threats.”She also tweeted: “Even worse than seeing women’s privacy violated on social media is reading the accompanying comments that show such a lack of empathy.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Emma Watson: Vanity Fair photo does not undermine feminismThe hack comes after Watson was attacked for posing for a revealing picture in Vanity Fair, with critics claiming it was an affront to her feminist ideals. “It just always reveals to me how many misconceptions and what a misunderstanding there is about what feminism is,” she said. “Feminism is about giving women choice. Feminism is not a stick with which to beat other women with. It’s about freedom, it’s about liberation, it’s about equality. I really don’t know what my tits have to do with it. It’s very confusing.”The actor’s latest project, a live-action remake of Beauty and the Beast, has broken pre-sales ticket records for a family film and is expected to open to $200m globally this weekend.