Alan Thicke, the Canadian actor best known for his role as the father in the 1980s sitcom Growing Pains as well as being the father of singer Robin Thicke, has died, a source close to the family said on Tuesday. He was 69. The Los Angeles Times, quoting Robin Thicke’s publicist, said the actor died of a heart attack.A source close to the family told Reuters by telephone that Thicke had a heart attack and was transported to Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. Grammy award nominated Robin Thicke told the Los Angeles Times newspaper that his father was playing hockey with another of his sons, 19-year-old Carter Thicke, when he suffered the heart attack.“I saw him a few days ago and told him how much I loved and respected him,” Thicke told the newspaper, adding that his father was an inspiration for his own musical career. “The good thing was that he was beloved and he had closure.” Thicke starred as Dr Jason Seaver in the ABC series Growing Pains, which aired from 1985 until 1992. The Canadian-born actor had a prolific career, including cameos in recent years on the comedy How I Met Your Mother. More recently Thicke appeared in Fuller House, a remake of the popular 1990s family sitcom.He was also the composer of several popular theme songs, including the original theme to The Wheel of Fortune, and shows such as The Facts of Life and Diff’rent Strokes. “Season 2 Fuller House looking good. I even like the ones I’m not in!” Thicke said in a tweet earlier on Tuesday.Celebrities immediately started posting condolences on Twitter.Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow)America loved Alan Thicke. I'm so sad he's gone. Sending so much love to his family.December 14, 2016Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano)Alan Thicke was always the nicest and happiest person in the room. Gone way too soon. Rest In Peace.December 14, 2016Ed Helms (@edhelms)Rest in peace Alan Thicke - You brought so much light, love and humor to the world! Deeply grateful for your friendship and wisdom.December 14, 2016Chaka Khan (@ChakaKhan)Condolences to the family of @Alan_Thicke. If ever there was a time celebs are thinking about our mortality, 2016 is it.December 14, 2016Ryan Seacrest (@RyanSeacrest)sad to learn of Alan Thicke's passing. he was a great friend over the years. thoughts & prayers to his family.December 14, 2016