Here’s the trouble with Cinderella and Rapunzel: I realised way too young that they weren’t real. I mean, naturally I never literally thought there was a girl with a magic pumpkin out there, but growing up in France, with French dynastic history drilled into me from primary school, I figured out pretty quickly that there had never been a Queen Cinderella in the House of Bourbon, in spite of the 1998 classic film, Ever After, trying to convince me otherwise. Free read! Rebel of the Sands by Alwyn Hamilton And while like every bookish girl since 1991 I loved Disney’s Belle, all animated clues pointed to her living mid 19th-century Alsace, between a succession of revolutions, republics and Napoleonic Empires, I was pretty sure the monarchy had lost their thrones by losing their heads, not because they were turned into beasts. Odd as it may sound, that niggled at my enjoyment of the story and those fairytales lost their magic more quickly for me.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Another beautiful image from Alwyn’s copy of The Arabian nights. Photograph: Alwyn HamiltonThe truth is, we’re spoiled in a lot of Europe. You don’t have to go very far to stumble into a castle and find a gift shop inside, and all the cute thatch half-timbered houses are down the road from apartment blocks. The effect is similar to finding out your card was up Houdini’s sleeve the whole time. It’s still a good trick but the magic is a little bit tarnished by knowing it’s an illusion.But then there was the Arabian Nights (AKA One Thousand and One Nights). CS Lewis's The Horse and His Boy: the best guide to writing deserts? In school all my history lessons from the time we were done with the Egyptians and the Romans up until 1914 leaned heavily west. In fact I don’t think we ever even ventured beyond the French Borders unless Napoleon did. For me as a child that meant the near east held a mysterious draw that comes with a lack of actual knowledge, and let my imagination run wild until everything I read in storybooks seemed like it really might be out there in the desert. I imagine this might be like what it was like to hear fairy stories before the world was so thoroughly explored, and you could believe that somewhere beyond the edge of the map you knew there really was a kingdom where girls had hair with the tensile strength to support a lovesick Prince’s weight up the tower. The Arabian Nights were stories about rulers I had never heard of, from countries I probably wouldn’t be able to point at on a map, and which I was therefore free to imagine really did resemble the ones in the pages of the storybook.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A magical journey, at night - from Alwyn’s copy of the Arabian Nights. Photograph: Alwyn HamiltonThe western fascination with the Thousand And One Nights isn’t a unique phenomenon to one day-dreaming child. In 1704 Antoine Galland started translating and adapting the text into French, the first Western collection of these stories, and it launched a fashion for Orientalism in Europe, which lasted well into the late nineteenth century. In 1721, Montesquieu published Les Lettres Persanes (The Persian Letters), Voltaire’s 1758 work Candide makes reference to the Thousand And One Nights, and in 1782 Mozart premiered his Opera Abduction from the Seraglio. And then there’s the paintings: Ingres painted Turkish Baths while Delacroix sketched street scenes in Morocco. It’s not by any means all down to the tales of Sultans and Genies. For one, the aforementioned Napoleonic tendencies towards conquest in Egypt played a huge part, but for me there always seemed to be a thread running through that tied it all together.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alwyn Hamilton: The western fascination with the Thousand And One Nights isn’t a unique phenomenon to one day-dreaming child. Photograph: FaberFrom a modern, and grown up, point of view there’s serious room to side eye this trend as a fetishization and simplification of several other cultures, amalgamating them all into one nebulous “orient”. But it meant that the Thousand And One Nights was imprinted in such a way that it stuck as part of culture that I grew up in, always viewed through a slightly hazy romanticized lens. My inspiration: Sarwat Chadda on Indian hero, Rama As a child I read a beautifully illustrated junior edition of the Arabian Nights, which was made more PG-13, without turning it cartoonish, and first experienced the Inception-like nature of the stories, in which Scheherazade’s tales feature Fishermen who save themselves from Genies by using astonishing stories of kings, who in turn have a history to recount. In philosophy, when talking about the nature of perception and reality, we discussed the story of the Sultan who cruelly tricked a beggar into thinking he had woken up as a king, and then again into thinking it was all a dream. And then I went on to study History of Art with a focus on eighteenth and nineteenth-century French painting, which led to standing in front of the larger-than-life Delacroix, La Mort de Sardanapale in the Louvre – not an Arabian Nights tale but another romanticized eastern story. The Thousand And One Nights always skirted at the edge of my consciousness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Cut to me being more than old enough to know nothing would come from rubbing a lamp. I was toying with an idea about an Annie Oakley-type sharpshooter girl who went by The Blue Eyed Bandit in a harsh desert town. Except I had no interest in actually writing a western. I was firmly committed to making it magical. I’m not sure whether it was the desert that did it, or the fact that “bandit” conjured up memories of Ali Baba and his 40 thieves, but when thinking about turning this world from mundane to magical, it was the Thousand And One Nights that came to mind. And so the idea became Rebel of the Sands, a story imbued with the last set of fairytales I believed just might have a chance of being real, long after I knew scullery maids didn’t become queen of france.Rebel of the Sands is this month’s Teen book club read. Find out more here.