February in New York is excruciatingly cold; so icy that there are reports of a dog being found in Central Park with its paws frozen to the ground. There’s no conceivable reason you’d choose to stand around in this kind of bone-chill, but that’s exactly what a huddle of desperate people are doing outside the doors of ridiculously exclusive nightclub 1 Oak. Tonight, the door staff are feeling particularly picky: it’s fashion week and the designer Alexander Wang is hosting his aftershow party within. The clamour for entry is rising to bedlam. Sturdy young bucks bristle with cash and aggro, girls pout and flutter at stony-faced bouncers.Meanwhile, an incongruous figure slips through into the promised bacchanal. Dressed in a battered hoodie and baggy jeans, Harry “Baauer” Rodrigues looks like the most unlikely candidate to ease past the velvet rope, but tonight he’s the star of the show. He’s Wang’s headline DJ; the 26-year-old producer who made one of the most notorious dance music hits in history, notching up more than a billion plays on YouTube.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Three years ago, a teenage comedian called Filthy Frank uploaded a video of himself dancing to Baauer’s single Harlem Shake. The track was raucous, a hip-hop instrumental comprised of crazed rave noises and lion roars. For reasons as unfathomable today as they were at the time, something about Frank’s absurd dance and the headbanging excess of Baauer’s music triggered something best described as mass hysteria. Copycat videos started: first a trickle from clued-up hipsters, then a tidal wave. On 10 February 2013, a Harlem Shake video was uploaded to YouTube every 21.6 seconds.Harlem Shake: Baauer cashes in on viral video's massive YouTube success Within 40 days, it had set a new world record, with Harlem Shake videos commanding a billion views in half the time it had taken for that other viral monster, Psy’s Gangnam Style, to reach the same level. Norwegian army squadrons, Manchester City footballers, Egyptian anti-Morsi protesters and Homer Simpson all did the Harlem Shake. In a month and a bit, Baauer went from being an obscure dance music producer from Philly to the centre of an unprecedented phenomenon. Now that he’s getting ready to finally release his debut album, he’s faced with a thorny problem: how do you move on from making a song as ubiquitous as the ice-bucket challenge?“Man, it’s always gonna be there, it’s always gonna be a thing.” He responds to the question he’s been asked a million times with little trace of rancour. Sitting in his favourite Brooklyn coffee shop in the hours before his set at 1 Oak, Baauer is tired but amiable. He’s operating on zero sleep, having come to New York direct from playing an EDM festival in Miami. For many producers this would mean an interview punctuated by mumbles and grunts, but Baauer is friendly to the point where he almost seems eager to please, even when churning over a subject you’d assume he’s utterly sick of talking about.“I mean, I hated it for a bit,” he concedes. “It became me, that’s all I was. There was a long stretch of time where that’s all anyone would want to hear when I played gigs. I would purposefully not play it and sometimes I’d overhear people being like: ‘Fuck him, he didn’t even play it, that’s all anyone cares about.’ I’d be so bummed. It just got annoying.”This isn’t merely the petulance of the suddenly famous. Before Harlem Shake’s freak popularity, Baauer had already released the Dum Dum EP on LuckyMe, the small, credible Glaswegian label started by Kanye West affiliate Hudson Mohawke. Unlike his fellow EDM big guns, crowdpleasers such as Avicii or Deadmau5, Baauer’s background was in woozy hip-hop rather than commercial dance. Post Harlem Shake, though, this background became largely irrelevant; when you’ve got a track being played by billions, you’re a long way from being “underground”.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Baauer live in Santiago, Chile. Photograph: AlamyWithin a few weeks of the Shake outbreak, booking agents were clamouring for a Baauer show. He quickly went from playing trap at small-scale clubs to entertaining thousands in Las Vegas, where electronic dance music offers a spectacle to quaff $400 bottles of Cristal to. The producer still holds a lucrative Vegas DJ residency to this day, but there is a feeling that the job of playing pied piper to fist-pumping rave bros has started to chafe. He laughs about enjoying playing mega-budget events complete “with lasers and fire and giant, walking robots”, but then turns serious.Harlem Shake: could it kill sampling? “It can be fun, but I’m not loving it.” he says. “I’m not trying to do that for ever. It’d be tight to just make pop songs at home, like [pop hitmakers] Benny Blanco or Max Martin. They have a good life, just stay home all day. I didn’t want to be an EDM producer and I still don’t want to be.”Three years in the making, Baauer’s debut album Aa is his chance to convince the world that there’s more to his oeuvre than big beats and comedy dancing, and while he’s not written anything that’s likely to out-odd Aphex Twin, he has taken risks. Had the album come out through a major label, it’s almost certain that it would have been packed with ill-fitting cameos from whoever was selling records that week. Instead, Baauer has returned to LuckyMe to release it, and used that freedom to work with scattershot collaborators, from hip- hop stars Future and Pusha T, to wildcards unheard in the US mainstream, such as UK grime teenager Novelist or offbeat vocalist and Micachu collaborator Tirzah. There’s even K-popper G Dragon, appearing alongside MIA on forthcoming single Temple. “I tried to put together a really random group,” Baauer says, “like a crazy group you would never think of. I think it hangs together, though.”Earlier in the day, Baauer got to road-test Temple at Wang’s catwalk show. He seems pleased at how its mix of metallic oriental chimes and leftfield hip-hop swagger has gone down, smiling that “for a lot of people, with the box they put me in, this would have been quite different. It feels good to be able to present weird shit. That’s the good side of it.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Baauer performs at Alexander Wang’s show in New York. Photograph: Elijah DominiqueThere is an unspoken second part to this statement: the bad side. While the catwalk show sees Baauer flexing his creativity on the decks, the afterparty, seething with yuppies bellowing for bottle service and bass drops, feels like a world he – or indeed anyone in their right mind – would want to leave behind. A few hours before, Baauer wearily ruminates on the strange disconnect between his fame and the desire to stay at home creating new slants on pop. “I’m definitely not trying to be ‘the DUDE’!” he says. “I’d rather be faceless. Sometimes when I’m DJing, I look at the crowd and I’m like: ‘What am I doing? What are any of us doing?’”But the show must go on. There he is later that night, playing the hits to the booze-soaked champions of 1 Oak, Alexander Wang shaking an exceptionally shiny head of hair by the side of the decks. And if Baauer’s smile is occasionally strained, and his eyes occasionally dulled, the music doesn’t skip a beat.Aa is released on Friday 18 March via LuckyMe    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Just in case you haven’t heard it…