MacGyver 8pm, Sky1Angus MacGyver was the mullet-sporting 1980s secret agent with such a pathological aversion to firing guns he would bodge together non-lethal weapons from whatever junk was at hand. In this unnecessary reboot, X-Men: First Class graduate Lucas Till dons Mac’s traditional scuffed leather jacket to thwart international terrorist threats via improvised science, with ex-CSI hunk George Eads as his bromantic backup. Harmless, mildly self-aware fun. Graeme VirtueNo Offence 9pm, Channel 4Paul Abbott’s cop drama continues, with the Friday Street team – minus Viv – bargaining with Attah crime family boss Nora. It turns out that Nor is rather opposed to female genital mutiliation, so – at her request – the officers search out a so-called cutter suspected of performing operations across Europe. Elsewhere, Viv heads undercover despite her suspension, unearthing a lead in the search for Ronan, one of the Attahs’ victims. Hannah J DaviesRoots 9pm, BBC4A timely remake this, of the 1977 slave drama, which brought the US face to face with its racist legacy. In this opener, set in west Africa in 1767, a young Kunta Kinte is being initiated as a warrior. However, a feud results in his being shipped to the US by English slave traders. As with the original series, this one brings home the humanity and individuality of a people historically depicted as a homogenous mass of silent suffering. David StubbsEmerald City 9pm, 5StarWe’re not in Kansas any more... and definitely not in an all-singing, all-dancing MGM musical. In NBC’s fantastically bleak Wizard of Oz reimagining, 20-year-old Dorothy (Adria Arjona) tumbles into a Westeros-like world, and is swiftly waterboarded before meeting a crucified “scarecrow” and a sadistic witch. It looks good – director Tarsem Singh loves his billowing costumes in vast landscapes – but it’s honestly all a bit of a grind. AJCommon Sense 10pm, BBC2A further flurry of current affairs chat from the Great British Public or, for the uninitiated, more of what happens when you put Twitter and the new BBC1 idents in a blender. Going by the series so far, diverting but definitely Gogglebox Lite, it’s a thundering shame that the US enjoys Samantha Bee, John Oliver and Stephen Colbert leading a topical comedy renaissance, while our equivalent is apparently two barflies talking about The Emoji Movie. Mark Gibbings-JonesFour Rooms with Sarah Beeny 10pm, Channel 4Renamed last year to incorporate the very minor celebrity of its new host, the programme that turns the art world into entertainment returns. As ever, the success of the format hinges on both the flamboyance of the rotating lineup of dealers and the rarity and preciousness of the objects the public bring into the studio for the former to bid on. Judging by this opener, series six has neither in abundant supply. Rachel AroestiExtraordinary People: The Boy Who Grew a New Brain – Revisit 10pm, Channel 5Documentary revisiting Noah Wall, the Cumbrian toddler who was profiled in a similar programme late last year. At birth in 2012, he had less than 2% of normal brain function, and was not expected to survive. As is demonstrated by this followup, Noah has defied the odds and all medical expectations to the extent that he is not merely still alive, but now attending a local primary school. Andrew MuellerFilm choicesSomeone to Watch Over Me (Ridley Scott, 1987) 11.45pm, BBC1Class barriers tumble when lowly cop Tom Berenger has to guard wealthy socialite and state witness Mimi Rogers. The two become lovers, to the outrage of his wife (Lorraine Bracco). It’s seductively shot and the romantic drama works beautifully. The thriller element is less plausible, despite a nervy duel between cop and killer in Rogers’s labyrinthine apartment.Warm Bodies (Jonathan Levine, 2013) 1.30am, Channel 4What a sweet zombie movie! Before morphing into horrible, skeletal flesh eaters, the infected in this winning tale of star-crossed lovers pass through a sallow, but still basically human, phase, as embodied by Nicholas Hoult’s R – so it’s no surprise that Teresa Palmer’s lovely, wholly human Julie falls for him. A witty spin on the usual undead horror fare, with an entertaining turn from John Malkovich as Julie’s zombiephobic dad.Today’s best live sportFA Cup Football: Leicester City v Derby County 7.30pm, BBC1. The King Power stadium hosts a replay between the sides, who drew 2-2 in the original tie.European Tour Golf: Maybank Championship Malaysia 3am, Sky Sports 4. Coverage of the opening day at the Royal Selangor Golf Club.Test Cricket: India v Bangladesh 4am, Sky Sports 2. Day one of a one-off test match between the sides.