Grasshopper Jungle is, without a doubt, the weirdest book I have ever read. That’s not necessarily a bad thing, it just means that it’s not for everyone. I mean, it’s really not for everyone.Grasshopper Jungle follows two best friends, Austin and Robby, and how they accidentally bring about the end of the world via giant man-eating grasshoppers. Yes, that is what this book is about. But it’s so much more than that. Throughout the book, Austin discovers his family history and legacy, and tries to figure out who he is and what (or who) he wants. It’s essentially a coming-of-age story on drugs.It did take me a while to get into this book as it was so weird, but I think it paid off in the end. It really makes you think about people and emotions in a complex way; it was strange, grotesque, explicit, but it held nothing back. I really respected that, as I think a lot of YA authors tend to hold back on real experiences and real thoughts that teenagers have, which often get put through a PG filter to appeal to younger audiences. Grasshopper Jungle did no such thing. It was very dirty, very funny and often very sad.In Grasshopper Jungle, Austin takes us on a journey from the middle of the ocean before the second world war to the Great Depression to the not-so-swinging sixties, and lots of places in between. He has, essentially, written the most messed-up history textbook you will ever read. It’s a complex form of storytelling, but I think it worked. Although you do sometimes get a little bogged down by detail, you get used to it and find yourself interested in the stories of the Szerba family and how they all connect to one another.I did run into a few problems with the characters, however. Austin was infuriatingly indecisive, sometimes self-centred and the most sex-obssessed character I have ever read about and possibly will ever read about. However, you have to bear in mind that his character is a teenage boy. It was realistic to a certain extent; the moodiness, the existentialism, the oh my god nobody understands I am an awful person attitude. He also has a powerful and perceptive narrative voice, which makes you appreciate his intelligence under all that fantasising about his girlfriend, Shann. I even found myself relating to his constant confusion by the world and alienation from other people, which I wasn’t expecting.Speaking of Shann, I think she needed a little more development. I’m pretty sure the sexist undertones were because of Austin’s biased view, but he makes a lot of comments about her body and how much he wants her, and you start to think that if Shann wasn’t as attractive as she is described then maybe Austin wouldn’t have gone out with her. She has so much potential as a side character, but is reduced to the object of Austin’s affections, the girl who gets left behind when Austin and Robby go out to kill some monsters. However, as Austin develops, we do get a closer look into her character, which I really appreciated. I really liked Robby, too; he had a good heart and tried to be selfless, despite Austin not always being an ideal friend. The complicated friendship/romance between the two of them was handled really well, as well as Austin’s sexual identity crisis.A warning: sometimes the book was a bit graphic, and I probably wouldn’t recommend it to readers under the age of 14, depending on maturity levels. I don’t like putting age limits on books, but this one gets pretty heavy on a lot of issues. This personally didn’t bother me – I like it when authors push the limits, go over the metaphorical line that publishers sometimes set out for them.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? I really did want to have a deep emotional connection to this book, but it just wasn’t happening; I’m not sure why, because I really enjoyed it. The book really picks up in the second half and you find yourself wondering what on Earth’s going to happen next.Grasshopper Jungle is a Marmite book: you’ll either love it or hate it. But definitely give it a go – it’s one-of-a-kind. For me, it wasn’t quite perfect, but well worth a read.• Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!