I was driving out of Luanda, the capital of Angola, when I came to a taxi rank. These two guys were selling black and blue overalls hung from a huge tree. I looked at them and thought: “They are the hollow men.” Visiting Luanda after the civil war, which ended in 2002, was like Mad Max meets Canterbury Tales. Time had collapsed. A whole generation of men had died in the war. Many others lost their childhood.It was late afternoon, the light was going, it was murky. I thought they looked like military uniforms but also puppets. Above that central figure is a bit of branch that makes it look like the overalls could be worked like a marionette. All skin and no bone. They felt like the shell of things. People wanted to forget the war. I was surprised how little my driver and interpreter knew about it I’d never really photographed outside South Africa before. I wasn’t trying to make a documentary image about the state of things in Angola. I was just keen to find something emblematic. Also, I hadn’t worked in black and white for about five years. People thought I was insane lugging all this film around. But there’s something about that darkroom process and those silver gelatin prints. It’s to do with time and slowness.People want to forget. I was surprised how little both my driver and interpreter knew about the civil war. Nearly a million died and millions were displaced. It lasted 27 years – one of the longest civil wars in Africa. But there was this sense that the past is the past and we need to move on and talk of other things. The two guys at the taxi rank asked me why I was photographing these overalls. I suppose I was looking for echoes of the human. I get into arguments with my friend David Goldblatt [a South African photographer]. He says I like landscape because it doesn’t talk back. But I like making images that are open-ended, that allow people to project on to them.On the journey home, I had to put the film I’d shot through a very old scanner at the airport. I developed the print myself and seem to remember the X-ray machine had made a sort of baseline fog on all my images. A kid once saw this shot and said to me: “It looks like the ghosts of dead men.” I nearly burst into tears. It was the perfect reading of the image.Jo Ractliffe’s CV      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jo RactliffeBorn: Cape Town, South Africa, 1961.Studied: University of Cape Town.Influences: “Robert Frank and Manuel Álvarez Bravo. But I’m also influenced by poets like Pablo Neruda.”High point: “End of Times, a project I did in 1996 in the remote Karoo in South Africa, with local kids doing workshops using pinhole cameras.” Low point: “In 1995, an exhibition in Johannesburg I’d spent five years making came crashing down. The ceiling bolts weren’t strong enough.” Top tip: “When I’m working with people I don’t know, in places that are not mine, I ask myself, ‘On what terms am I here?’” 