When Colm Tóibín returned after a long hiatus to work on his most recent novel, Nora Webster, he hadn’t planned on writing another work in its entirety. But it was in an early draft of the first chapter of Nora Webster that the story for his novel Brooklyn came to him – an idea so fully formed, according to his account, that he was compelled to begin what would become one of his most successful works to date, and the novel behind an acclaimed Hollywood film.“I kept postponing it; adding chapters, adding scenes and then leaving it,” said Tóibín of Nora Webster, at a Guardian Book Club chaired by John Mullan. “But here was a story on page two or three of this novel I’d been struggling with for so long, and so I stopped writing Nora Webster and I went and I wrote Brooklyn.”It was only through this process, of seeing another story that had a “full arc” through to completion, he said, that he was able to return to Nora Webster and finish what he started – a highly personal novel drawing on his own experiences of grief and provincial life in 60s Ireland.“I came really close to calling it Nora Webster: A Novel of Provincial Life,” he said, telling the room about the importance of reeling back the action from the “teeming business of the growing city” to the “submerged world” of the provinces, much as Flaubert and Eliot had done in the 19th century with Madame Bovary and Middlemarch. In Nora Webster, this particular “submerged world” is the town of Enniscorthy in County Wexford – Tóibín’s childhood home – where the titular character has been left to raise four children following the death of her husband, facing down small-town narrow-mindedness with intelligence, pluck and heart.“One of the things that the novel [form] has been able to do from the very beginning is to take the most ordinary life and to actually try to make something from it,” he said. “It’s a funny democracy, the novel: it lets light into the strangest and most seemingly impoverished places.”Tóibín set out to capture the life of his protagonist and her surroundings in “black and white”; he wanted to “see what you could do with the ordinary business of being alive in a place whose name is not in lights or is not known. [The city] is the world in lights, the world in Technicolor. Black and white, despite whatever we do with colour, still has the ring of truth to it.”Consummate in this approach is Tóibín’s insistence that he does not deploy familiar dramatic premises – such as adultery – in an attempt to raise the stakes for his characters and readers. Instead, he prefers to tell the stories of “the people who are blurred in the photograph, or people who didn’t have very exciting lives, people who didn’t go to America, people who didn’t win the lotto … people who just got on slowly with things.“What you keep trying to do is to dramatise nothing much. It’s as though you’ve been given a pencil and you can do texture with the pencil and sharp line, but you don’t have any colour to work with and you’re trying to get as much expression as you can from using the pencil.“I was trying to get a notion of change, of imperceptible change, that her husband dies and over three or four years she recovers in some way from the loss, but slowly, in ways that even she herself doesn’t understand. And I wanted to make the reader not understand them,” he said.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brooklyn – video review.When talk eventually returned to Brooklyn and its 2015 screen adaptation by Nick Hornby, Tóibín said it was “very emotional” for him to see his work brought to life on film.“Nobody except me knew the tentative beginnings and how this began with nothing,” he said. “There’s something extraordinarily solid and vivid about the big screen and being in a cinema with the big screen. It’s an odd, interesting experience, and it’s been very rich. Every time I watch it I go back to the feelings I had before I wrote it, as though they’re still raw. As though I cooked something and now someone has given me back the ingredients raw, and it makes me really shiver.”Colm Tóibín was speaking at a Guardian Book Club event. For future events, visit membership.theguardian.com