Despite previous behaviour clearly being the best way to predict our future actions, promising to change is something everyone buys into. Who doesn’t say that tomorrow is the day to start getting up after the first alarm and not snoozing for 15 minutes, or forego stabbing your husband when he forces you to cook Blue Apron together? Well, maybe not that last one, but that is a very real problem on You’re the Worst, FXX’s anti-rom-com which returns for its third season on Wednesday, 31 August at 10pm ET. Mild spousal assaults aside, the characters on You’re the Worst seem hell-bent on self-improvement this season, but progress is slow, incremental and often non-existent. This season the comedy is switching gears to focus on the characters’ personal development when, in the past, it had mostly a straightforward will-they-won’t-they between two despicable people. Gretchen (Aya Cash) and Jimmy (Chris Geere) met at a wedding after she stole one of the gifts and he cussed out the bride on the dancefloor. They had sex on the first night and kept coming back to each other despite neither believing they could ever fall in love, especially with each other. In season two, Gretchen’s clinical depression nearly wrecked their relationship, but now she’s medicated and in therapy. Jimmy’s creative drought was crippling his confidence and sense of self, but a burst of productivity and a new book proposal have him back on track to be a literary wunderkind. Everything’s peachy, right? Not so fast. Gretchen spends her first session with her new therapist (Orange Is the New Black’s Samira Wiley) calling her creatively obscene epithets and then spends the rest of the afternoon stalking her and chomping pain pills with her bestie Lindsay (Kether Donohue). Jimmy is so crippled by self-doubt that he starts frantically revising his proposal based on the recommendations of total strangers. Yes they’re trying to change, but it’s just not working out for them. Jimmy’s roommate Edgar (Desmin Borges), on the other hand, is doing well now that he’s gotten some new medication for his PTSD, and his relationship with his improv partner Dorothy (Collette Wolfe) is blossoming. That’s great, except for the improv part. Lindsay, of course, is still wacky and trying to deal with her decision to get pregnant with her ex’s baby. If only she were smart enough to want some betterment. While still dealing with some dark issues, the tone of this season is lighter. The series’ second outing was funny, naturally, but dwelling on Gretchen’s depression and self-destruction was a lot for one show to handle, especially after the first season, which seemed like a Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks movie. (Well, a Ryan/Hanks movie where both of America’s sweethearts have personality disorders.) It seems like we’re back to that dynamic and it’s quite wonderful. They should call it You’ve Got Malaise. It’s the coupling between Jimmy and Gretchen that doesn’t seem to need much work at all. The first episode concerns itself with their declaration of love, but they find a way to make their dysfunction functional for them. This has always been the key element to their lasting success and why the audience connects to them. Everything they go through is extreme, but it’s also utterly relatable. When Jimmy is disgusted by Gretchen’s disclosure that she never washes her legs because it’s a waste of time, it will be familiar to anyone who discovered one of their partner’s nastier habits – though dirty legs seems very, um, specific. As calcified as the outrageous personalities on the show are, it’s their ever-evolving relationship that keeps us coming back. What’s great about Jimmy and Gretchen is that they have a way of working things out even though neither of these sometimes awful people really change all that much. Guess they’re just meant for each other, self-improvement be damned. 