Jennifer Lawrence has written an essay about the results of the US election, imploring people not to feel defeated.The Oscar-winning actor penned the piece for Broadly, an offshoot of Vice, to detail how people should turn anger and fear into hope after this week’s surprise Trump victory.Alec Baldwin on Trump victory: 'The American political system is broken' “This country was founded on immigration and today the only people that feel safe, that their rights are recognized and respected are white men,” she writes. “I want to be positive; I want to support our democracy, but what can we take away from this? It’s a genuine question that we all need to ask ourselves. We shouldn’t blame anyone, we shouldn’t riot in the streets. We should think strongly and clearly about what to do next because we cannot change the past.”Rather than rioting, she believes we should use our behavior and intellect to stand up against any inequality that may arise from the new president.“If you’re worried about the health of our planet, find out everything you can about how to protect it,” she writes. “If you’re worried about racial violence love your neighbor more than you’ve ever tried to before – no matter what they believe or who they voted for. If you’re afraid of a wall putting us all into another recession then organize and stand against it.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  How the 2016 US election night unfoldedShe urges people not to feel “defeated” but shares concern over what the result means for women. “If you’re a woman and you’re worried that no matter how hard you work or how much you learn, there will always be a glass ceiling, then I don’t really know what to say,” she writes. “I don’t know what I would tell my daughter if I were you.”Lawrence, whose new film Passengers hits cinemas in December, ends her piece by instructing people to focus on being an inspiration, like Hillary Clinton. “Do not let this defeat you – let this enrage you!” she writes. “Let it motivate you! Let this be the fire you didn’t have before. If you are an immigrant, if you are a person of color, if you are LGBTQ+, if you are a woman – don’t be afraid, be loud!”She has previously written for Lena Dunham’s newsletter Lenny, discussing the pay inequality in Hollywood. “I’m over trying to find the ‘adorable’ way to state my opinion and still be likable,” she wrote. “Fuck that.”