Endeavour 8pm, ITVDebut for the fourth series of the Morse prequel. This picks up where the third series left off: the late 1960s, with both the young Endeavour Morse and mentor/sidekick Fred Thursday struggling to absorb significant departures. Diversion is provided via a cohort of boffins who have arrived at Lovelace College to develop a computing contraption. A larger number of drownings among the scientists than would appear coincidental suggest that bigger, darker interests are at play. Andrew MuellerDance Dance Dance 6.30pm, ITVThe massive success of Strictly has prompted a typically ITV-ish response: a flashy, oldies-free competition in which the nubile stars of, among others, Towie, Emmerdale and JLS and their partners/friends re-enact before a panel some of the most famous dance routines of pop and film. In tonight’s opener, these include Michael Jackson’s Scream and Ed Sheeran’s Thinking Out Loud. Alesha Dixon presents; Ashley Banjo of Diversity fame is a kindly judge. David StubbsWalking the Americas 8pm, Channel 4Following in the footsteps of Bear Grylls and Bruce Parry, Levison Wood is the latest soldier-turned-TV adventurer. In this new series, he treks through Central America on foot, encountering monstrous arachnids, skulls from ancient human sacrifices, menacing drug gangs and much more besides. He’s a slightly more cheerful travelling companion than the intense Grylls, in a watchable if inessential slice of January escapism. Phil HarrisonStill Open All Hours 8.30pm, BBC1As the warm, milky sitcom sequel continues, knackered lothario Gastric (Tim Healy) is still having no luck with the grimly clenched Madge (Brigit Forsyth). David Jason’s Granville concocts a plan that has comfortingly familiar comic elements – ladders, silly costumes – so nobody minds if it doesn’t really make sense. Elsewhere, it’s a torrent of produce-based innuendo, with leeks, custard and bacon rind pressed into  erotic service. Jack SealeSherlock 9pm, BBC1“What’s the very worst thing you can do to your very best friends?” As the fourth series of the intricately plotted global hit continues, Toby Jones gets to indulge his diabolical side as hiding-in-plain-sight schemer Culverton Smith, yet another calculating nemesis for Benedict Cumberbatch’s tetchy consulting tec. Will the isolated Holmes be able to rebuild his relationship with estranged pal Watson in time to reveal Smith’s malicious machinations? Graeme VirtueThe Big Spell 5pm, Sky1Twenty extraordinarily grown-up nine- to 13-year-olds (they say brilliantly earnest things such as “This competition means EVERYTHING” and “It’s go big or go home”) take part in a contest to find the nation’s best speller, with Sue Perkins and the (usually very blue indeed) Joe Lycett on hosting duties. Moira Stuart is the show’s chief pronouncer, putting the kids through their paces, while Perkins keeps it all super-light, diffusing the pressure and keeping any tears at bay. Ben ArnoldKilling Reagan8pm, National Geographic There are a couple of issues with this latest entry in Nat Geo’s Killing series, dramatising the murders of iconic figures from JFK to Jesus. Firstly, Ronald Reagan wasn’t actually killed. Secondly, it’s not very good – although Tim Matheson and Cynthia Nixon (as the Gipper and Nancy) are comprehensively out-acted by Kyle S More as John Hinckley Jr, who can’t decide whether he wants to kill Jodie Foster, Reagan or himself. Ali CatterallFilm choices      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A sexy, sensual and funny dance of attraction … Venus in Fur.Venus in Fur(Roman Polanski, 2013) Sunday, 10.30pm, BBC4Roman Polanski adapts David Ives’s play about a theatre director (Polanski lookalike Mathieu Amalric) adapting a 19th-century novel, Venus In Fur. In sweeps Emmanuelle Seigner’s actress Vanda, enticing in bondage kit, to audition: she thinks the book is “S&M porno”; he thinks it’s a bit more sophisticated (and deeply personal). So the stage is set for a sexy, sensual and funny dance of attraction; an enigmatic gender-driven power play in which one thing is clear: Vanda is in charge. Paul HowlettThe Witch(Robert Eggers, 2015), 2.30pm, 10.35pm, Sky Cinema PremiereIn 17th-century New England, a devout father (Ralph Ineson) rebels against the puritan elders and leads his family to set up home beside a forbidding forest. Here they fall foul of what appears to be a horrific witch, except that much of the torment stems from the family’s inner lives and twisted faith, centring on pubescent daughter Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy), in a tale that springs from the darkest folklore. Paul HowlettThe Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 1(Francis Lawrence, 2014), 9pm, Channel 4Jennifer Lawrence’s heroic Katniss Everdeen is whisked out of the reality show combat to continue the fight against vindictive President Snow’s (Donald Sutherland) government on the airwaves. With the weapons largely set aside, there’s room for cutting-edge satire, giving the likes of Julianne Moore’s rebel leader and Philip Seymour Hoffman’s gamesmaker a chance to shine as brightly as Stanley Tucci’s teeth. Paul HowlettA Most Violent Year(JC Chandor, 2014), 10pm, BBC2That year is 1981, when New York hit peak crime figures. Heating oil businessman Abel Morales (Oscar Isaac) seeks to bury his family’s gangster past by going legit. But his plans hinge on acquiring a huge waterfront site where hijacking wiseguys hold sway, while his wife Anna (Jessica Chastain), prefers the older, more ruthless methods (she’s a crime boss’s daughter, after all). Marital tensions, murky politics and gangland violence play out compellingly. Paul HowlettLive sportFA Cup Football: Liverpool v Plymouth Argyle 1pm, BT Sport 2The third-round clash from Anfield (kick-off 1.30pm).Premiership Rugby: Wasps v Leicester Tigers 2.30pm, BT Sport 1The stuttering, Cockerill-less Tigers face title-chasing Wasps.FA Cup Football: Tottenham Hotspur v Aston Villa 3.35pm, BBC1A third-round tie at White Hart Lane (kick-off 4pm).