Podcasting is the final frontier for the 50-year-old sci-fi franchise Star Trek. That’s all about to change thanks to Engage: The Official Star Trek Podcast, which will set its phasers to stun fans starting on Wednesday 15 June. Hosted by the Guardian’s US film critic Jordan Hoffman, the show will launch with three episodes, including unabashedly geeky conversations with “Weird Al” Yankovic and Adam Nimoy, son of the Spock actor Leonard Nimoy. Malcolm Gladwell is about to kick off a 10-week stint as a podcast host. His new show, Revisionist History, will explore the past with a new lens and reinterpret the idea, person, painting and put it in a new context. The first episode drops on 16 June. Tackling more recent history, Two Brown Girls looks at Woody Allen and Johnny Depp and the state of men in Hollywood.In podcast business news, EW Scripps bought the podcast platform Stitcher for $4.5m. Stitcher is one of the more popular alternatives to iTunes when it comes to listening to podcasts; Scripps is the parent company of Midroll Media, which helps bankroll podcasts like WTF, Nerdist, Comedy Bang! Bang! and many more through its advertising network. It might be a good time to get acquainted with Stitcher, because some of your favorite shows might start favoring the platform soon.Heather B Armstrong, perhaps better known as the blogger Dooce, opened up about her divorce in an episode of Manic Rambling Spiral. One of the biggest tests of a relationship can be travelling together. On Last Name Basis, the married hosts, Franchesca and Patrick, went to Morocco and not only lived to tell about it, but captured some great stories along the way. The raw, honest and even humorous conversation offered unique insight into the challenges of both marriage and divorce. Hang Up and Listen devoted a special episode to the life and legacy of Muhammad Ali. Hosts Stefan Fatsis and Josh Levin spoke to longtime sportswriter and Ali biographer Robert Lipsyte, who wrote the New York Times’ obituary for the greatest boxer ever (if he did say so himself). Listeners took a trip down memory lane on the Mouth Time podcast from the Reductress in an episode called Whoa! The 90s! with the actress Mara Wilson acting as their tour guide. Wilson, who is best known for her roles in Matilda and Mrs Doubtfire, is building up her podcasting resume, thanks to a recurring role on Welcome to Night Vale, on which she plays a faceless old woman who lives in your home. Speaking of Welcome to Night Vale, fans of the show and its new series, Alice Isn’t Dead, should clear some space on their podcast playlists for Within the Wires, which premieres 21 June. According to the press release, the newest edition to the Night Vale Presents family will be a 10-part story presented in the “form of an audio course on full-body relaxation issued by the Institute to you, (the listener) a nameless medical inmate”. Sounds like a perfect addition to the surreal world of Welcome to Night Vale.The Axe Files, the politically minded podcast from David Axelrod, a former senior adviser to Barack Obama, hosted the former US attorney general Eric Holder a few weeks back. The two wonks spent an hour discussing politics, but the most interesting revelation was that Holder believes that Edward Snowden performed a “public service” by outing the government’s surveillance and igniting an international conversation about privacy rights. “We can certainly argue about the way in which Snowden did what he did, but I think that he actually performed a public service by raising the debate that we engaged in and by the changes that we made,” Holder said, permanently doing away with the notion that podcasts are just entertainment. If you want more Axelrod, he appeared on The David Gregory Show this week.Radio Diaries finally released an episode that has been in the works for months – well, years, actually. The story comes from Majd Abdulghani, a young Saudi woman who has been chronicling her life for the last two years. In the audio diary, she documents her struggles with her family, who want to arrange a marriage for her, while she yearns for a career in science, practices karate and hopes to find true love. It’s a fascinating portrait of what its like to be a millennial growing up in a corner of the world where young women are chided by their own brothers for not covering up enough. If you’re still looking to scratch your season one Serial itch, a new series may help. Untold tells the story of the brutal murder of the private investigator Daniel Morgan, killed with an axe behind a pub in south London in 1987. Despite five police investigations, the murder remains unsolved. Untold, hosted by British screenwriter and journalist Peter Jukes, takes listeners into the heart of the continuing investigation. The 10-part series features interviews with Morgan’s family and hints at deep levels of police corruption and ties to the phone-hacking scandal. As Jukes says in the first episode: “If you think we have incorruptible police, if you think we have free press, if you think we have accountable government, when you hear this story, it will make you think again.” Listen here.