Poor old Sonata Sliuzaite only went to the woods to pick some mushrooms, an expedition that this week landed her with a criminal record and a bill for £364 in fines and court fees.The nurse insisted she was merely following in the foraging traditions of her Lithuanian roots when she set out to find some dinner in Epping forest, and that she was unaware of bylaws against mushroom picking.But the wardens of the forest on the London-Essex border called the police, accusing the rustler from Romford of contributing to a fungal crime wave apparently sweeping the commons and woods of Britain.The City of London Corporation, which owns the forest, said commercial foraging for the restaurant trade had become unsustainable. Meanwhile, Bristol City Council has proposed new bylaws to stop foraging in its parks and green spaces.Foraging has been in vogue for years as part of the broader trend in food for sustainable and locally sourced ingredients. But when does a mushroom omelette become a criminal offence?Richard Osmond is head forager at the Foragers, a sort of hunter-gatherer collective based at the Verulam Arms in St Albans, Hertfordshire. He sympathises with Sliuzaite, and has witnessed more serious illegal picking at Epping forest.The 10 best mushroom recipes “I was walking the dog early one morning and saw four shifty men walking in a very regimented way and picking everything they found,” he says. “I’ve also seen a whole minibus of foragers turn up at the common and golf course around Harpenden. They just took everything and piled back on the bus.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brigitte Tee-Hillman explains the intricacies of picking wild mushrooms.The Harpenden gang may have been collecting for medicinal use but, whatever the purpose, The Theft Act 1968 outlaws the picking for commercial purposes of mushrooms, flowers, fruit or foliage from any land not owned by the picker. And authorities are adding layers to the law.Osmond plays safe by only picking on private land with the permission of owners. He says it’s hard to do it profitably and questions the business model of the underworld forager supposedly tapping the back door of restaurants. “The time and initiative it would take to become a mushroom baron would be much better spent on other things that are just as illegal but more profitable,” he suggests.Brigitte Tee-Hillman, if not a baron, may be at least a mushroom tycoon. She became a cause célèbre in 2002 when she was arrested in the New Forest in possession of chanterelles with a street value of £20. For 30 years she had sold wild mushrooms to top London restaurants. In what her solicitor called “a tremendous victory for the rights of the individual”, the forager then won a personal permit to pick for profit. But the exemption only applies to the New Forest; Tee-Hillman may want to steer clear of Essex. 