Speed With Guy Martin7.30pm, Channel 4Guy Martin targets the 25-year-old speed record for a human-powered boat. Attempting to pedal at an average speed of 21mph for 100m, he enlists a duo of Olympians: cyclist Chris Hoy for fitness tips, and sailor Ben Ainslie, who demonstrates hydrofoil tech used in the America’s Cup yachts. Will Martin’s own carbon-fibre catamaran and canoe fitted with a giant aeroplane propeller bag the record? Jonathan WrightHunting the Nazi Gold Train 8pm, BBC2This fascinating one-off sees historian Dan Snow head to southern Poland to investigate claims of a train containing treasures looted by the Nazis. Recent radar images appeared to show carriages buried underground in Silesia, but nothing has been located as of yet. As well as linking up with amateur treasure hunters, Snow’s own investigations soon suggest that this could well be more than an urban legend. Hannah J DaviesPoldark 9pm, BBC1In much the same way that people wearing belts made of bacon can’t really complain if they get chased by hungry hounds, you’d think there’s little reason to trust anyone else within a smuggling ring. And yet, there’s controversy when word reaches the ring that an informant lurks among them. Keeping with the theme of meagre morality, George buys out the debt held by Ross, with the sole intent of crushing him. Mark Gibbings-JonesVictoria 9pm, ITVThe period drama continues with Victoria’s morning sickness raising a few eyebrows in the royal court. The Tories aren’t keen on the pregnant queen’s grand plans to make Prince Albert regent if she dies, but can they be persuaded? As Albert tries to make himself useful by heading to the industrial north, the visit doesn’t go as he expected. And while all this brouhaha’s going on in the palace, Miss Skerrett and Francatelli are flirting over some chocolate below stairs. Hannah VerdierLouis Theroux – Savile 9pm, BBC2Theroux’s 2000 encounter with Jimmy Savile had undercurrents of unease and a side order of melancholy at his subject’s apparently lonely life. The world of British broadcasting has, of course, had plenty of cause for self-examination since his appalling crimes posthumously came to light. Here, Theroux wonders long and hard about his experiences with Savile, meets some of his victims and wonders what he – and we – might have done differently. Phil HarrisonDracula: Escape the Castle9pm, Insight TVThis ramshackle gameshow from this obscure factual channel tries to be a super-creepy take on The Crystal Maze, with pairs of contestants solving puzzles to escape a Transylvanian manor full of cobwebs, creaks and creepy-crawlies. Unfortunately, the challenges are poorly conceived: they’re too hard and go on for far too long, with pointless post-hoc interviews failing to make up for an apparent paucity of usable footage. Jack Seale Film choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A silly but lovable medieval comedy … Rufus Sewell in A Knight’s Tale. Photograph: Colombia TristarA Knight’s Tale(Brian Helgeland, 2001) 2.30pm, Channel 5Setting out to make his fortune in 14th-century England, lowly thatcher’s son William (Heath Ledger) poses as a wandering knight to become a champion of the joust. Helgeland’s silly but lovable medieval comedy is a lighthearted mix of slapstick and wit, with a standout performance from Paul Bettany as an opportunistic young chancer called Chaucer. Paul HowlettTea With Mussolini(Franco Zeffirelli, 1999) 3.45pm, Film4Zeffirelli revisits his own youth in this account of a boy growing up in Mussolini’s prewar Tuscany. When his mother dies, Luca (Baird Wallace) is saved from the orphanage by a group of dotty, chatty expats, and the interplay of Judi Dench, Maggie Smith, Joan Plowright, Cher and Lili Tomlin is a joy. A pity it drifts into more obvious wartime dramatics. PHReturn Of The Musketeers(Richard Lester, 1989) 4.05pm, Movie MixA last hurrah for the gang first assembled by Lester in his 1973 Three Musketeers. Michael York, Oliver Reed, Frank Finlay and Richard Chamberlain are still all-for-one in an adventure set 20 years on. It may not have heaps of energy, but there’s plenty of boisterous action as the French heroes try to save England’s Charles II from the chop. The death of Roy Kinnear, who plays Planchet, casts a poignant shadow over the production. PHToday’s Best Live SportFormula 1: Malaysian Grand Prix Live 7am, Channel 4. The 16th round of the season (start-time 8am).Premier League Football: Manchester United v Stoke City 11.30am, BT Sport. Elsewhere, catch Tottenham Hotspur v Manchester City and Burnley v Arsenal on Sky Sports 1.NFL Live: Jacksonville Jaguars v Indianapolis 1.45pm, BBC2. Coverage from Wembley Stadium (kickoff 2.30pm).