Hindsight in Hollywood can be a terrible thing. Not so long ago, Pierce Brosnan publicly lamented his run as James Bond being “never good enough” and admitted he hates watching himself as 007. Now Christian Bale has stepped up to take aim at his own generally rather well-received turn as Batman in Christopher Nolan’s Dark Knight trilogy, telling Yahoo! Movies: “I didn’t quite nail it.”Just as Bond acolytes will never stop arguing about which actor best rocked the Walther PPK, the issue of who made the greatest ever Batman is likely to be whirling in the ether for as long as Hollywood makes superhero movies. It’s particularly pertinent right now, with the world set to get its first look at the new caped crusader, Ben Affleck, in the much-hyped superhero smackdown Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. So here’s why Bale, despite his own misgivings, will most likely be remembered as the greatest dark knight ever to stalk the rooftops of Gotham City. And why many of his rivals simply weren’t fit to wear the cape.Christian Bale: I could have been a better Batman Batman: Christian BaleMovies: Batman Begins (2005), The Dark Knight (2008), The Dark Knight Rises (2012)It’s hard to remember what a shock to the system Bale’s debut turn as Batman was in 2005: the Welsh-born actor – for better or for worse – almost single-handedly forced Hollywood to take superheroes seriously. Batman Begins arrived in cinemas at a time when studios were largely clueless as to how to realise comic book material on the big screen. It gave us the caped crusader’s first proper origins story, and didn’t shy away from the grim reality of Bruce Wayne’s angst-ridden existence. Bale gave us a Batman we could believe in, in more ways than one. Crucially the character is never overplayed: Bale may wish he had mined the horrors of the dark knight’s ruined soul more thoroughly across the Nolan trilogy, but Heath Ledger’s razor-edged Joker was always going to need a less flamboyant foil. Bale’s performance levels dipped slightly for the final instalment, The Dark Knight Rises, but his jaded, late-era Bats is still head and shoulders above any of his rivals. Critics always mention the silly gruff voice, yet it’s really just a clever way of maintaining one’s secret identity while scaring the bejesus out of more fragile opponents.Costume: 9/10Batmobile: 7/10Fear factor: 9/10Overall Batpower: 9/10Batman: Michael KeatonMovies: Batman (1989), Batman Returns (1992)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Keaton: not all that scary. Photograph: Allstar/Warner Bros/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarKeaton’s caped crusader was widely expected to be a disaster, but the Tim Burton regular brought a kind of still confidence to his scenes as Wayne. Yet Burton’s decision to shoot on a studio lot, rather than Nolan’s real cityscapes, combined with scenery-chewing turns from the likes of Jack Nicholson and Danny DeVito, these days lend the early Batman movies a pantomime air. And when Keaton steps into his “mini-Bats” outfit, he simply isn’t all that scary. Bale haters will disagree here, but who would you rather meet on a dark night?Costume: 7/10Batmobile: 8/10Fear factor: 6/10Overall Batpower: 8/10Batman: Val KilmerMovies: Batman Forever (1995)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Val Kilmer: struggling for energy levels. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/Warner BrosKilmer’s turn as Gotham’s defender coincided with Joel Schumacher’s assumption of directing duties, studio bigwigs having decided that Burton’s Batman Returns (with its missile-toting penguins and catsuited Michelle Pfeiffer) was too adult in tone for a major blockbuster. The new Bruce Wayne certainly filled his suit more impressively, but often appears to be struggling for energy levels. Then again, the dialogue probably didn’t help: it’s hard to get enthused when you’re trotting out lines like: “Are you trying to get under my cape, doctor?” in dodgy scenes of rooftop romance with an embarrassed-looking Nicole Kidman. Despite the best efforts of furiously freewheeling villains Jim Carrey (The Riddler) and Tommy Lee Jones (Two Face), the whole movie falls curiously flat, and Kilmer wasn’t asked back after falling out with Schumacher on set.Costume: 6/10Batmobile: 9/10Fear factor: 7/10Overall Batpower: 7/10Batman: George ClooneyMovies: Batman & Robin (1997)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Clooney: batnipples not pictured. Photograph: Courtesy Everett Collection/RexClooney’s arrival in the Batcave almost killed his Hollywood career even before it got started, and little wonder. The suit is the worst yet, with Schumacher insisting on rubber Batnipples, while gorgeous George spends the entire movie with an expression of confused horror on his face, as if he’s just turned up to a Christian coffee morning dressed as Dr Frank N Furter from the Rocky Horror Picture Show. The only good thing about Batman & Robin is that it forced Warner Bros to take a completely different slant on the character, which eventually led to the Robin-less Nolan movies. Oh, and the Clooney Batmobile, which at 30ft long made for an impressive entrance.Costume: 4/10Batmobile: 9/10Fear factor: 1/10Overall Batpower: 4/10Batman: Adam WestMovies: Batman: The Movie (1966)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adam West: wonderfully stilted. Photograph: Allstar/20 Century Fox/Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarWhile diehards love the campy silliness, the 1960s Batman TV series and it’s one-off big screen transfer are probably responsible for all that’s ever been wrong with the caped crusader in cinema. The fact that it’s deliberately ridiculous doesn’t forgive the amateurishness of many of the action scenes, as typified by the early segue in which Batman and Robin are attacked by a rubber shark – which they fend off with shark repellent. Yet West, with that wonderfully stilted delivery as the dark knight, is enjoyably aware of the gilt-edged artifice of the entire affair. It’s a performance so good yet bad that doyen of overacting Nicolas Cage chose to channel his forebear when cast as the similarly pitched Big Daddy in Matthew Vaughn’s Kick-Ass.Costume: 6/10Batmobile: 10/10Fear factor: 3/10Overall Batpower: 7/10