Too suddenly gone, Sir Terry Wogan was the most charming after-dinner speaker I ever heard, partly because his outrageous jokes were delivered in such a civilised voice. I suppose Russell Brand would like to sound like that too, but you have to be born to it, which probably means being born in Ireland. Guiltily, I have been wondering if Wogan would have preferred to hang around a bit, rather than being taken so quickly. With his well-stocked mind, he could have used the extra time well.But there’s something to be said for a snappy exit. For one thing, it saves you from the blog trolls. Recently, I had the temerity to question whether Jeremy Corbyn’s idea for a Trident submarine fleet without nuclear warheads was quite wise, and suddenly his fans were writing in by the thousand. Only one of them instructed me to drop dead immediately, but there were several who asked a question that can be summed up as: “If David Bowie can go quietly, why can’t you?”I understand their impatience, because I sometimes share it, especially in a week that features three separate trips to the hospital, one of them for the lung function clinic in which I have to half-swallow the mouthguard of a plastic tube and breathe out with full force. The force is never sufficient to impress the computer, and I have to try another 10 times while vaguely wondering how Tim Peake is doing up there in the International Space Station.Along with hundreds of others throughout the country, my granddaughter’s school was connected by video to the space station. With so many children asking Tim questions, she didn’t get a chance, but she noticed that he paused for a few seconds before every answer. Now when she and I ask each other questions, both of us pause before answering. It’s a space conversation. No doubt the blank pause will be standard stuff in the future, when half the population is floating around up there.Clive James: ‘Am I convincing in the role of Bob Geldof?’ I won’t be here to see that, but meanwhile there is homework to do. I’d rather just write new things, but if they accumulate into a book, then the proofs have to be corrected. With my wife’s kind help, I’m checking the proofs of my Collected Poems, due out in spring. Annoyingly, she is miles better than I am at spotting the comma that ought to be a full stop, but it’s a pleasure to check through the designs of the British and American editions. I just hope I’m here to see the finished volume take its place in the Cambridge bookshops. And the New York bookshops, you ask? (Pause) It would be easier for me to get to the space station.