Banks – Fuck With MyselfBanks makes really cool music that springs from interesting creative decisions. She has great taste in collaborators and works at a deliberate pace. Fuck With Myself is the first record proper from a new album, and it’s equal parts playful and pushy. It’s self-assured, but in a bruised and cynical way. This is bitter “boss” behaviour right here.Blood Orange – Best to YouDev Hynes never comes at music in a linear way. There are many layers of sound and ideas in his songs, but this is one of the most direct ones he has written. It’s a simple and beautiful duet with Empress Of that comes and goes at a perfect pace. The album Freetown Sound is deep. It tastes like New York, full of mood and movement. Really, Best to You is just a great pop record.Skott – WolfThis comes from a different place than most pop music. Skott grew up in a traditional folk music environment. She eventually discovered Muse, and her own artistic identity flowed from there. You’d be hard pressed to hear either element in her records, but both Porcelain and Wolf are joys to listen to. Nothing feels forced here, which always bodes well in music.Mac Miller – Dang!At the moment, a lot of music feels heavy and claustrophobic. I suppose it’s a reflection of the times we’re living in. But this record is on the right side of optimism: it’s a mid-paced, four-on-the-floor groove, all shimmering Fender Rhodes and featuring Anderson Paak. Mac sounds really fresh here. Every person I’ve played this record for makes the same face. Try it – you’ll see what I mean.Francis and the Lights – Friends (feat Bon Iver) This record is near perfect. There is so much restraint and respect for what’s going on that you are drawn in and left with a defining memory. It’s one of those records that leaves you feeling better than you did before. It’s restorative, like all of the best records are.Listen to Zane Lowe’s show on Beats 1 at 5pm GMT Monday - Thursday or listen again on demand via Connect on Apple Music. 