The first time I met Tony Warren was around the time he’d won a claim against Granada TV, who had refused to pay him royalties. He was a staff writer when he invented Coronation Street, so they didn’t give him any. They’d just agreed to pay him around £200 an episode – for 3,000 episodes. I joined Coronation Street as the storyline writer, aged 24, and was treated like the teaboy. But Tony didn’t care who you were; he treated everyone fairly, and the story-writing engine room was incredibly important to him. I was there for nine years, and it was a brilliant experience. When Tony chatted to us, it made me realise what we were missing. He spoke with that flamboyant cadence, that poeticism. He brought a depth to the show, particularly early on.Nancy Banks-Smith: 'I grew up in a pub – I thought Corrie was a documentary' He wasn’t writing by then, but he remained a consultant for major storylines. You could smell Salford in the show when he was talking, and it made you want to take it back there. When you listen to the rhythm of the speeches, Ena Sharples talking about the price of stamps for example, it’s like an Under Milk Wood performance rattled out by a gallant fishwife. He wrote wonderfully for men and women, but particularly women. The show thrived on the strength of its tits and teeth – from Bet Lynch to Elsie Tanner. He put such powerful voices forward. When we first met, he talked about the beginnings of Corrie. We didn’t ask him; he just talked. And you realised there was something bitingly incisive about the writing. Yes, it was funny but it was so much more. Everybody finds northerners friendly, and the syntax is friendly, but the inferences are often not – and he tied all that into a beautiful little bow. There was biting stuff from Hilda Ogden, all the way down the line. I think what influenced him more than anything was sitting around listening to old women. It taught him everything. He had an incredible ear for parlour chat and he patterned his dialogue beautifully. His first six episodes were like a sociological essay.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Biting all the way down the line ... Hilda and Stan Ogden. Photograph: ITV/REX/ShutterstockI didn’t know him well. He was this legend who got wheeled out for events. But he really appreciated the writing we did. One day we spent about three hours with him. Everybody would be on about two bottles of red wine by 1pm. It really pissed me off because I had a 90-minute drive back home, so I couldn’t drink. He got tanked. They all did. Tony was a visionary. He made the ordinary look extraordinary. He built Coronation Street superbly, with statuesque female mouths. And even if men were downtrodden they always had their bit to say behind the wife’s back. Tony identified with the strongest pillars of a mouthy blue-collar community; not the priests, but the women who work in bars.When I met the characters for the first time I nearly had a stroke. Meeting Annie Walker, the landlady of the Rovers Return, was like meeting the Queen. Coronation Street was the incredibly flamboyant world of the Blackpool postcard – with gloriously extended speech bubbles.