I am a member of the oldest choir in the world. As early as the 5th and 6th centuries there are records of singers being part of the papal entourage, today, some 1,500 years later, the role of the Sistine Chapel choir (officially, the Cappella Musicale Pontificia) remains the same, namely, to sing for the pope. You will have heard of the phrase “a capella” singing. This literally refers to the Sistine Chapel (the “capella”), and to the unaccompanied style in which the choir has been singing ever since it was installed in the world famous “Cappella Sistina” in the 15th century.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Spyropoulos in the Sistine Chapel Photograph: PRThe choir has had various high and low points over the centuries. The 1500s Renaissance golden age and the 1900s Perosi revival are some of the highs. But in the second half of the 20th century, the choir went through a period of decline and found itself with the nickname “the Sistine screamers”. Today, after a period of intense study and hard work, we’re very happy to have left that particular moniker far behind, and to be breaking new ground in recordings, repertoire and research. But changes come slowly – this is the Vatican after all. It was only 100 years ago that the last castrato retired, after 30 years of service in the choir. Today, the high parts are sung by boys’ treble voices – as they would have been in Renaissance times – the men no longer have to be ordained, unmarried, or even Italian, although I’m still one of only three foreigners in the choir and I’m its first British full-time member. I still have to pinch myself as I stand under Michelangelo’s extraordinary frescoes, singing music much of which was written five, 50 or 500 years ago for this very choir to be performed in this very place, for this very acoustic.When you are a singer – or any kind of artist – looking for work, you invariably spend a lot of time being in the wrong place at the right time and the right place at the wrong time. If you’re lucky and persistent you may end up being in the right place at the right time. I joined the choir two years ago. My previous job was as the flower presenter at Covent Garden. Yes that is actually a job – although not one you can retire on – but for me, a trainee singer, what I learnt standing in the wings and watching the world’s most incredible singers night after night was as valuable as several years at a conservatoire. I had come to Italy to research its opera houses, and it was in that capacity I went to talk to Massimo Palombella, the Sistine chapel choir’s director. We discussed at length the British and Italian choral traditions – he is very knowledgeable about the English choral tradition and reveres it greatly. Next door, the choir happened to be just about to start a rehearsal, and, at the end of our meeting he opened the door saying, “Right, there’s the choir, go and join them!” and so I joined the basses. It’s quite a way to do an audition! I must have done OK, as there followed several return trips to Rome to sing with the choir, and eventually a four-month trial period, and in September 2015 I was accepted as a full-time member.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A view of Michelangelo’s fresco The Creation of Adam on the Sistine Chapel’s ceiling. Photograph: MUSEI VATICANI/ANSA/CLAUDIO PERI/EPAMaestro Palombella was appointed by Pope Benedict in 2010 under strict instruction to transform this ancient institution into a world-class choir. The unfortunate “Sistine screamers” tag had come about because over the past few decades the choir had grown in size and had moved from the small chapel into the vast St Peter’s Basilica, and was singing Palestrina and our revered Renaissance heritage as if it were bel canto opera, and this was being broadcast around the world live on Vatican Radio and TV. Maestro Palombella is the Indiana Jones of Renaissance polyphony And so the first thing Maestro Palombella did was to electronically map the acoustic in the Sistine Chapel. We’re the Sistine choir and must sing in a way that is pertinent to the Sistine Chapel even if our bread and butter job is to sing for papal masses in the Basilica once or twice a week. The Sistine’s intimate acoustic was then reproduced in the Basilica using speakers and microphones. So now, when we sing in the much larger space, we’re amplified in a way that recreates the authentic Sistine acoustic and we can hold on to the choir’s core repertoire – the many Renaissance masterpieces of early polyphony – and take them it out into the big public showroom.Another crucial change that Maestro Palombella has wrought has been the revival in Renaissance singing, and an “authentic” style. By which I mean singing the music in the most appropriate and pertinent way to get as close as we can to how the music was intended to sound. Italian music is always about melody (in contrast to German music, say, which is more harmonically driven). The emphasis must always be on the overall sweep, on the melodic line and phrasing. It is an idea that developed in the Renaissance and goes all the way through Italian music even to Puccini. And it was developed here, in the Sistine Chapel, in particular with Palestrina. Each part in Palestrina’s choral music is a song which fits in with another song, and they all fit together.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It is not enough to have reverence and respect for historical tradition, we must also have genuine curiosity and enquiry. Maestro Palombella is the Indiana Jones of Renaissance polyphony. He – and he alone – has 100% access to the Vatican’s archives, the biggest collection of Renaissance music in the world. Two years ago he found the earliest edition of Allegri’s Miserere (Sistine codex 1661) perhaps the most famous work written for the choir. Previously, everyone had been singing an edition from around 1900 that included the famous top Cs and elaborate ornamentation. But no Renaissance composer ever wrote a top C – that was an embellishment added by showing-off castrati. Prior to the codex being excavated from the Vatican’s archives, no-one had ever heard what Allegri actually wrote. We recorded that here in the chapel itself, in the the first ever studio recording made in the Sistine Chapel for our 2015 album Cantate Domino.For me, though, Palestrina’s music is the culmination of the Renaissance, and the Missae Papae Marcelli is his masterpiece, a sublime and graceful marriage of words and music. Our new album Palestrina features his astonishing Missa Papae Marcelli, as well as a Palestrina motet written for the choir but that had been gathering dust in the archives for perhaps over 400 years: his Benedixisti, Domine. Palestrina was Director of Music for the Cappella Guilia – the choir of St Peter’s Basilica next door (he was married so couldn’t be part of the Sistine Chapel choir whose singers had to be ordained), but he knew the singers of Cappella Musicale Pontificia well and wrote much of his music for them and to sing in the Sistine Chapel. Recording this and every other piece on the CD in the Sistine Chapel means that we’re recording in the exact acoustic these pieces were written for. It’s rare you can make that claim.In our quest for an authentic sound, we put down carpets in the Sistine Chapel for recording in order to soften the reverberation, as we know that in Palestrina’s time there would have been the Raphael tapestries (now in the next-door Vatican museum) on the wall which would have affected the acoustic.We have to forget our modern way of understanding and reading music, and understand the music in a way which is pertinent to the 15th century. Palestrina wrote for a choir of around 18 singers, for boys and men, but not for castrati (they came to Italian choral music later), and he wrote music without bars or a time signature. That’s not to say that he wrote in a non-rhythmic way – he wrote according to the text. The phrasing, the words, were everything. Meanwhile there was no such thing back then as equal temperament. That wasn’t to come until almost two centuries later. The idea of a fixed “C” simply didn’t exist. And the reason we know which note to start on is because we know that the alto line would not have gone higher than what we now call a B-flat, so everything is tuned according to the top note of the alto line. So long as everything is in relation to that, everything fits. Of course we don’t know if we’re absolutely right, but we think we’re getting there. But then again perhaps 50 years from now people will look back and say, “What they hell were they doing?! … don’t they realise it should all be sung with … I don’t know … tambourines!?”Sistine Chapel choir’s album Palestrina is out now on Deutsche Grammophon.