‘We all feel alone and isolated at times,” says Stephen Graham. “You question whether you’ve been a good father, husband, friend. That’s human instinct, asking what we’re trying to achieve with our lives.”It’s easy to see why an actor like Graham would fancy a show like The Watchman. More or less a single-hander, it casts him as Carl, a solitary CCTV operator who tries to bring down some drug dealers on an estate after the police refuse to respond to his tip-offs. For someone rarely granted leading-man status (“I’m never going to be Mr Darcy, but I’m always going to be the man that kicks Mr Darcy in the balls,” he has said), it’s a gift.It slots into a frankly chaotic CV that has embraced Hollywood blockbusters (Gangs of New York, Pirates of the Caribbean), prestige TV (Boardwalk Empire, This is England) and microbudget indies (too many to mention) since his 2000 breakthrough in Snatch. Perhaps the only common thread is how many roles have leant on his coiled, pitbull physicality. Here, though, the cameras are trained, for much of the hour, on his face. I watch Graham filming a scene in the Watford warehouse that contains the CCTV station. His expression morphs from anger to fear and, finally, mute horror as Carl’s plans go south. It’s mesmerising. “I’ve got to be at the peak of my concentration all the time,” he says. “It’s great because it adds to the pressure Carl’s feeling.” He picks up this thread a few weeks later, chatting from his home in Leicestershire, where he lives with his wife Hannah Walters (who played Trudy in This is England) and children Grace and Alfie. “I’ve had moments where I could have gone down one road but took another,” he says. “Thankfully, I made the right decisions most of the time. And I’d rather not elaborate,” he adds, pre-empting my next question.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I was going to pack it in and become a youth worker’ … after he played Combo in This is England, no one in the industry would touch him. Photograph: Sportsphoto Ltd/AllstarOff-set, Graham is as disarmingly genial as his best-known characters – This is England’s National Front hardnut Combo, Boardwalk Empire’s rising crimelord Al Capone – are dangerously sociopathic. He concedes that he’d certainly take the law into his own hands if his children were in danger. “But I’m lucky,” he adds. “I can express those urges through my characters, without having to do it myself.”Without his family, he might have given it all up. So incendiary was his 2006 debut as Combo that casting directors wouldn’t touch him. “I couldn’t get work for eight months,” he says. “I was going to pack it in and become a youth worker, but Hannah told me to stick at it. She’s talked me down off mountains at work. I was on recently about having had a heavy day, thinking about losing the kids to get myself upset for a scene. She said: ‘All you’re doing is pretending to get upset about the kids, love. I’ve been doing that for real since seven this morning!’ There wasn’t much I could say to that …”It’s no coincidence that family, surrogate or otherwise, humanises his greatest screen monsters, whether it’s Capone’s concern for his deaf son or Combo’s doomed devotion to Lol. Indeed, Combo was last seen being dragged off to apparent certain death screaming the names “Grace” and “Alfie”. “We decided Combo had been in care after saving his brother and sister from an abusive relationship, so I used my children’s names to get into character.” It wasn’t the first time real family has intruded. “My uncle John’s been in prison for 15 years, and the letter Combo reads out to the parole board is exactly what my uncle said when he was up to be moved to a category D prison. He phoned me and said he cried watching it – it was one of the most beautiful things I’ve ever experienced.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I’m never going to be Mr Darcy’ … Graham as Carl in The Watchman. Photograph: Laura Radford/Channel 4The final series won more Baftas, although Graham lost out to Mark Rylance. “I take it with a pinch of salt,” he says. “It’s nice for me and Hannah to get dressed up, though sometimes I feel the industry should use that money to do something more constructive.”This is England’s ensemble is a rare exception to the idea that acting is now a closed shop for the rich. “I was asked recently: ‘What do you think is wrong with the youth of today?’” says Graham. “Well, we’re very quick to point the finger and forget we were that age once ourselves. It’s easier to chastise than to encourage, promote and provide opportunities to excel. I used to go to the youth club every day after school. Some children just go home to their bedrooms because that’s the only space they have to themselves. The cutbacks are dramatic, but there has to be a way to turn it round.”Ten years on from his first outing as Combo, he is in ceaseless demand. There’s Taboo, a period drama series with Tom Hardy. Little Boy Blue, a miniseries about the Rhys James shooting in 2007. The latest instalment of Pirates of the Caribbean. Even a rare comedy, playing opposite Jack Whitehall in the BBC’s Evelyn Waugh adaptation Decline and Fall. “I just want to keep doing something that has a voice,” he says. “I can come into people’s living rooms and make them think about themselves and about society.” What options were open to you when you were young, I ask, half-expecting a story of narrowed horizons in Thatcher-era Merseyside. “Anything,” he says. “My parents gave me that belief. They made sure I had opportunities, even when they had to scrimp and save for me to go away with the National Youth Theatre. I could have done anything.”The Watchman is on Channel 4 at 9pm on Wednesday 24 August.