In the early 1990s, my brother Julian and I drove around in a battered Citroën 2CV. (We drove that car into the ground, literally, after driving it into a number of front garden walls, double-decker buses and my mum and dad’s porch.) Among the C90 cassettes lovingly collected on the floor, was the debut album by the Rockingbirds. It was definitely a country album – not a genre that we’d much embraced in our childhood, but it was also very much a London album. We spent a summer singing along to Gradually Learning and Jonathan Jonathan, their wonderful homage to Jonathan Richman, and in time it opened the door to a world of music that we hadn’t heard before, from their most obvious and celebrated influence, Gram Parsons, and his various bands and incarnations, to Townes Van Zandt and his Texan contemporaries, and pretty much everything in between. To be honest, it wasn’t a great leap from dad’s household soundtrack of Springsteen, Tom Waits and Dylan, which we’d grown up with, but it all felt new and exciting nonetheless. We started a band, Grand Drive, which reflected our expanding listening habits, and as we gigged around the country we began to play alongside and meet new bands who held many of the same records that we did in similar regard, often at Barry Everitt’s legendary Borderline club, in London’s West End. We toured with Uncle Tupelo and the Jayhawks and played shows with legendary roots rock bands (legendary in cult circles admittedly – it was all pretty obscure to be honest) such as Green on Red and Giant Sand. As far as I can remember, there wasn’t a catch-all name for it, but it was becoming a scene of some description. I heard “cowpunk” mentioned: it was certainly a kind of leftfield country rock. Soon, we started to hear phrases that attempted to define the whole thing, names such as “alt-country”, “insurgent country” and “Americana”. Being, like most musicians, wary of pigeonholes, we tried to avoid labelling ourselves anything in particular. We were fans of music, and Americana alone didn’t seem to obviously incorporate our love for, say, soul, jazz or world music, or whatever we felt like chucking in the mix. That’s a feeling that has continued with Danny and the Champions of the World, but we’ve found a home with a great audience, and we’re lucky to have met, played alongside and become friends with many talented people. If they describe their tastes or their musical family as “Americana”, we’re more than happy to be a part of it. As the seminal and newly resurrected magazine No Depression used to describe itself: “Alt-country … whatever that is!”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest But Americana is the name that took hold, and in 2016 it has its own section in record shops, serious coverage in the mainstream music press, its own chart, some pretty damn big artists who certainly fall under the banner, and even its own Americana Music Association, with an annual awards ceremony in Nashville, which we were thrilled to play at in 2014. (Sharing a backstage area at Jack White’s Third Man venue with Ry Cooder and John Hiatt was pretty special.)The UK has always celebrated roots music and singer-songwriters, often being among the first audiences to recognise future legends from here and overseas. There’s now an Americana Music Association UK (AMA-UK), which is run by great folk from all aspects of the scene – record-shop owners, promoters, managers, PR people. Last week the UK’s first dedicated chart for Americana music was launched (with Elle King’s Love Stuff in the top slot), and this week the AMA-UK host their first ever awards ceremony.I’m thrilled that Danny and the Champs have been nominated for four awards and we’re going to be playing at the ceremony, alongside Billy Bragg, Emily Barker, Gretchen Peters, Ethan Johns and the Dreaming Spires and many others, all introduced by the legendary “Whispering” Bob Harris, at St John at Hackney in London. It’s a broad church. Geddit?The inaugural UK Americana awards  are at St John at Hackney, London, tonight. Information and tickets theamauk.org