France’s richest man, Bernard Arnault, the chief executive of luxury goods conglomerate LVMH, has hit back at a blockbuster documentary in which the little guys take him on – and end up laughing all the way to the bank.Merci Patron! (Thanks boss!) tells the story of an unemployed middle-aged couple in one of France’s poorest towns so desperately in debt that they consider burning their home. In the film, former textile workers Jocelyne and Serge Klur not only take on Arnault after he “ruined their lives” by delocalising their jobs to Poland – they also make him pay.It has been playing to packed cinemas, with audiences cheering in the aisles. But Arnault has not, it seems, seen the funny side. “For many years now, for 20 years, we have been the object of criticism by groups from the extreme left. We are used to this kind of criticism,” Arnault told a shareholders meeting of the world’s biggest luxury goods company.Asked by a shareholder to give his opinion on the film, Arnault said that was difficult because he hadn’t seen it. But he said: “LVMH is the illustration, the incarnation of the worst, according to these extreme-leftist observers, of what the market economy produces.”Switching to irony, he said: “We have it all wrong. First of all we are a big company in the CAC 40 [stock market index], we have strong results and we’re making things worse for ourselves by hiring people. When I took over at the company we were 20,000 and now we are 120,000.”LVMH’s annual shareholders meeting features in the film when the jobless couple threaten to disrupt the meeting with a “crack squad” of trade union militants if Arnault doesn’t give Serge Klur a job in a supermarket.The film’s director, Francois Ruffin, attempted to disrupt the meeting in 2014 to bring attention to the couple’s plight, after buying shares in LVMH, and shareholders at last year’s annual meeting complained to Arnault of the heavy police presence, with riot police searching them at the entrance.Protesters demonstrating against reforms of France’s labour laws have taken up the film’s title as a slogan on marches and sung its “Merci Patron!” theme song – a 1970s comic skit urging bosses and workers to swap places.Until Thursday the billionaire had remained tightlipped about the affair, with nobody at LVMH – which owns Dior, Givenchy and Louis Vuitton – willing to comment to AFP.Arnault sparked the wrath of the French left in 2012 when he applied for Belgian nationality after the government proposed higher taxes on the rich, prompting the Libération newspaper to run the front page headline: “Clear off, rich loser!”Like its protagonists, the film faced an against-the-odds battle to get made, losing half of its tiny budget when state funding was withdrawn “without explanation” at the last minute.Some 230,000 people have seen the film, which cost €40,000 to make, since it hit cinemas in February. French culture magazine Telerama said this put it on course to become the most profitable French film of the year.Some cinemagoers felt Arnault did not actually come over too badly in the film.“Arnault is the bad guy of course – and the sting is at his expense – but he doesn’t come out of it all bad. He clearly has some kind of a conscience,” said John Baxter, an American who saw the film in Paris.“Most American business leaders would not give these people the time of day.”