Sebastian Barry’s unprecedented second win of the Costa book of the year is a marker of the singular place he occupies in contemporary fiction, combining a highly literary style with wide popular appeal. After starting out as a poet and playwright, for two decades he has met with great acclaim for intense, lyrical novels about Ireland’s faultlines and fissures, all inspired by the stories of his own ancestors.Days Without End wins Sebastian Barry second Costa book of the year award The Secret Scripture, which took the Costa in 2008, gave voice to a representative of Ireland’s silenced women: centenarian Roseanne McNulty, confined to an asylum for life for resisting the authority of the church. In Days Without End, Barry travels further back in time to the figure of his grandfather’s great-uncle Thomas McNulty, who vanished from the family record after emigrating to America to escape the famine.The novel relates the adventures of Thomas and his lifelong companion and lover John Cole, who meet as starving, raggedy youths under a rain-soaked hedge in 1850s Missouri, “two wood-shavings of humanity in a rough world”. At first they earn their keep dressing up as women and dancing for miners; when they sign up with the army they find themselves in the midst of frontier violence and then civil war. They witness atrocities and wonders, betrayals and sacrifice. Like Barry’s 2005 novel A Long Long Way, set during the first world war, the book describes the individual’s struggle to create a place of physical and psychological safety amid the onslaught of history. Thomas and John become stand-in parents for an orphaned Native American girl, Winona; but the careless violence of the times seems likely to crush them in its path.Novelist and critic Joseph O’Connor has described Irish history in Barry’s work as “toxic sludge through which the characters must wade, as best they can”. In Days Without End, by going back to the 19th century, and by following a story of young lovers in the near-mythic American west, Barry seems to have opened up new vistas within his own literary landscape. The prose is freer, more daring, vividly impressionistic. The last few years have seen a renaissance in Irish writing, and Barry has spoken of how inspired he has been by the younger generation. The book is about escape – from Ireland, from the past, from penury, even from gender norms, as Thomas’s desire to live as a woman is treated with brisk matter-of-factness. But it is in no way escapist. Barry has described the US as “a place of myths that deserve a good busting”, and here he explores the savagery of early Irish American history and the genocide against Native Americans, drawing parallels with colonialism and famine in Ireland. The novel combines visceral immediacy, historical sweep and profound insight. It’s a crowning achievement to an extraordinary literary career.