Spring marks the start of new beginnings, and though the crisp, sunny days might tempt you outside, others, like me, will be tempted by a new crop of books to choose from. So, if you’re looking for new literary beginnings, look no further. Our keen reviewers have been busy reading and critiquing the very best children’s books, and here are their recommendations for springtime reading.1. Grasshopper Jungle by Andrew SmithHow working with Syrian refugee teens in the US inspired my new novel If you’re looking for something out of this world, why not step inside a world overrun by giant, man-eating grasshoppers (yes, really). In this tale, best friends Austin and Robby accidentally bring about the end of the world by unleashing these monsters. Site member Wordsarelife says: Grasshopper Jungle is, without a doubt, the weirdest book I have ever read. It really makes you think about people and emotions in a complex way; it was strange, grotesque, explicit, but it held nothing back.WordsAreLife warned readers that “sometimes the book was a bit graphic, and I probably wouldn’t recommend it to readers under the age of 14” but concluded that “Grasshopper Jungle is a Marmite book: you’ll either love it or hate it. But definitely give it a go – it’s one-of-a-kind. It’s well worth a read.”2. Pick Your Poison by Lauren ChildMeanwhile, if you’re more in the mood for a spy detective mystery, look no further than the fifth book in the Ruby Redfort series. In this instalment, undercover agent Ruby investigates the rumours of Twinford and these peculiar Taste Twister adverts that seem to have everyone hooked... “I have always been a Ruby fan – smart, witty and the best dress sense that I think it was possible for people to have in 1973 (if the pictures I’ve seen are anything to go by), what’s not to love?” swooned reviewer The Fanatical Reader.Our reviewer also enjoyed the fast-paced plot: Along with the expertly balanced hilarious conversations and the sitting-on-the-edge-of-my-seat-slash-beanbag anticipation that built up throughout the book, I’d say it was a success. I can honestly say that for a series to keep me hooked from the release of the first book up to now is an achievement. Lauren Child, I take my Redfort glasses off to you!3. Lottery Boy by Michael ByrneFrom undercover spies to those who unintentionally slip beneath the radar, this next read follows homeless teenager Bradley who buys a winning lottery ticket. However, there is a catch – only people over the age of sixteen can claim the prize – so Bully has to work out who to trust in order to get his winnings. Site member Lottie Longshanks enthused “I loved this book. It is a real eye opener about how some young people have to live their lives”. You will find the book really hard to put down as you travel northwards with Bully hoping against hope that he will escape the clutches of everyone who is looking for him, and like me, I am sure that you will love the family who want to help him even though he has broken into their home and stolen from him. I am looking forward to Michael Byrne’s next book.4. Twenty Questions for Gloria by Martyn BedfordFrom being hunted to helping the hunt, our next reader’s pick follows Gloria who, after being on the run with Uman Padeem, is interrogated by the police on his whereabouts. Our reviewer, Confessionsofabooklover, praised Martyn Bedford’s writing style: “This book has been written in a really unique and interesting way. It’s always fun to see an author’s take on storytelling, and the way of telling this tale, a format that is almost like a transcript of a police interview, is something I’ve certainly never seen before, and I really enjoyed it”. I really enjoyed this book, and I’m honestly quite sad the rest of the world still needs to wait a little while for it to come out, but trust me: it’s worth the wait.5. Slated by Teri TerryWhat makes you you? Our final reader’s pick for this month explores what would happen if your mind was wiped of all its feelings and memories. In this book, Kyla – a perceived criminal of the state – is reborn into her 16-year-old body with no memories. Site member mangomix commented: This story has many twists and turns but in the end you discover don’t believe in anything. It was a wonderful and well-written dystopian novel that touched my heart. I practically dived into this book and I just couldn’t put it down. It is one of my favourite books and after reading the rest of the series and other books by Teri Terry she is my role model!Teri Terry: I've loved and hated all my characters Our reviewer recommended this novel to all ages. “This book appeals to all ages, boy and girl, however the suitable age for reading this book is a 12+. It’s amazing.”Want to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!