Prime Suspect 1973 9pm, ITVThe stylish prequel draws to a close with many a loose end to tie up after the explosion. As panic breaks out among the police force, Harris manages to mobilise them to launch a manhunt for David and Clifford, but Renee’s not keen to join. Smart young WPC Jane Tennison (Stefanie Martini) makes a discovery about Julie Ann’s murder that puts her life in danger, but given that she’s got to grow up into Helen Mirren’s Tennison, she’ll probably be all right. Hannah VerdierAlone With the In-Laws 8pm, BBC2Our parents’ relationships, runs the narrative here, act as blueprints for our own marriages. Therefore, before the big day, it would be useful to spend a few days living with prospective in-laws, asking questions about their attitudes to money, children and such. As Chris and Stacey do this, it’s soon clear their family dynamics are very different. Kate Bottley oversees a revealing study of how the past plays into the present. Jonathan WrightThe Last Kingdom 9pm, BBC2It may for ever be seen as a second-rate Game of Thrones, but this muddy, bloody historical epic, based on Bernard Cornwell’s bestsellers, has been enjoyably action-packed in its second season. As hunky swordsman Uhtred the Well-Conditioned heads for Northumberland to deal with two angry Viking brothers at the behest of King Alfred, there are lethal infiltrations, a mass siege and a gory duel. “No drunkenness till it’s done!” yells one hairy killjoy. Graeme VirtueMary Magdalene: Art’s Scarlet Woman 9pm, BBC4Present at the crucifixion, washer of Jesus’s feet, witness to the resurrection – Mary Magdalene was there for a lot of Christianity’s watercooler moments. Not that you would necessarily deduce this from her many depictions in art – it is her role as redeemed prostitute that fired the imaginations of Caravaggio and Rembrandt. This film examines how depictions of Mary reveal her appeal – and also some interesting anomalies. John RobinsonIsis and the Battle for Iraq 11pm, Channel 4A timely report as the struggle to evict Islamic State from their last remaining Iraqi stronghold of Mosul enters what are hopefully its concluding stages. This film illustrates the frying pan v fire dilemma faced by many civilians. They are largely Sunni, while much of the firepower enabling their liberation is wielded by Shia militias – and Iraq’s sectarian civil war is probably more accurately thought of as dormant, rather than over. Andrew MuellerThe Trip to Spain 10pm, Sky AtlanticSad that it’s no longer on terrestrial, but this is an utterly welcome return for the comedy travelogue starring Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon as slightly fictionalised versions of themselves. This show isn’t just about their work; it’s their best work. This time, they’re on a culinary jaunt through Spain, with Brydon escaping domestic life and Coogan on a literary mission. Mick Jagger and John Hurt are among the impersonated. David StubbsThe Good Fight 9pm, More4It’s (more) designer power suits and forked tongues in this promising spin-off from The Good Wife, which moves the character of attorney Diane Lockhart centre stage and introduces Maia Rindell, her newly qualified goddaughter. As Maia joins the firm, Lockhart is preparing to retire but their lives are upended when Rindell’s father is busted for fraud. The plotting to get even continues in episode two, with Diane ruffling a few feathers at her new firm. Sharon O’ConnellFilm choiceAmerican Hustle (David O Russell, 2013) 11pm, Film4An anarchic retro-caper-comedy based loosely on a 70s FBI operation to inveigle a New Jersey conman into entrapping some dodgy politicians, via the original “fake sheikh” fraud. It’s brilliantly designed and hilarious, with extraordinary characters. Christian Bale is the combed-over art forger Irv Rosenfeld; Jennifer Lawrence his steely wife, Rosalyn; Amy Adams is his mistress, the sexy pseudo-English conlady Sydney Prosser; and Bradley Cooper is Richie DiMaso, the smug fed “masterminding” proceedings.Metro Manila (Sean Ellis, 2013) 1.40am, Film4Young farmer Oscar (Jake Macapagal), his wife Mai (Althea Vega) and their two kids arrive in the urban chaos of Manila’s slums, their hopes of a better life fading quickly – until he lands a job as a security guard and the film slides cleverly into heist territory. Ellis fashions a taut, low-budget action thriller that keeps viewers rooting for the young family in a vividly realised, seedy city. Paul HowlettLive sportRacing: Grand National Festival Five races on the opening day of the festival at Aintree. 2pm, ITVIPL cricket: Rising Pune Supergiants v Mumbai Indians The latest match of the T20 competition from Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium. 3pm, Sky Sports 2Golf: The Masters The first day of the major as Danny Willett defends his title. 7pm, Sky Sports 1 