On a Wednesday afternoon in January I was sitting in Matthew Healy’s living room, talking about Taylor Swift. It was not long before Healy’s band, the 1975, released their second album, and I was following them for a feature for Q magazine.I didn’t think Healy had said anything particularly scandal-worthy in the time we spent talking – he had been an open and engaging interviewee, speaking willingly about his early issues with drugs, about a period of instability while touring the band’s first album, about God and faith and fashion, John Hughes, Truman Capote and Donny Hathaway.The 1975: ‘No one's asking you to inspire a revolution. But inspire something’ I’d been most intrigued, though, by the things he said about women. We’d discussed the usual rubble of crushes and ex-girlfriends – Swift among them – that had inspired some of his new songs, along with his desire to be adored. He spoke about the strangeness of dating when you’re famous and get recognised and have a legion of adoring fans.We’d also talked about how two songs on the new album took a very different view of womanhood. One, Nana, deals with the death of his grandmother, to whom Healy had been extremely close and about whom he talked to me with warmth and wonder. The second is She Lays Down, a song about his mother’s experience of post-natal depression. Here is a young man, I thought, with a desire to understand what it means to be female.So I was a little startled to be told that as a result of my interview, published earlier this week, remarks Healy had made about Swift were being reprinted in the Daily Mirror – billed as a “MAJOR swipe” – and were then picked up in scores of magazines and websites, where they were presented as evidence of misogyny. Healy and Swift were linked, in the press if nothing else, for a brief period during autumn 2014. The day we spoke, Healy had talked about their involvement in the context of the difficulty of dating in the limelight. “It’s not really anything to talk about, because if she wasn’t Taylor Swift we wouldn’t be talking about her,” he said. “She wasn’t a big impact on my life. It’s just interesting to me how interested the world is about Taylor Swift.”I’d seen it as a way to discuss not only Swift in particular but relationships in general. “I feel like I’m not very good at relationships,” he’d said, and I wondered why. Healy explained the jumble of reasons – insecurity, self-obsession, a fear of misrepresentation. Was it also, I asked, a fear of losing himself? He nodded. “Absolutely. And the reason I mention that is because if I had [properly] gone out with Taylor Swift the first thing I would’ve [thought was] ‘Fucking hell I am NOT being Taylor Swift’s boyfriend.’ You know, FUCK. THAT.” Then he had added an afterthought: “That’s also a man thing, a de-masculinating, emasculating thing.”The 1975: I Like It When You Sleep, For You Are So Beautiful Yet So Unaware of It review – great pop, if not great art This week his comments have been cast as a slight on Swift (according to Elle, he was “throwing shade” at her). I don’t see them that way. I see them as the thoughts of a musician with an ego and ambition to match that of Swift, who does not want to be viewed as the subordinate in a partnership. The feelings of an artist who wants to be celebrated in his own right.The reason I asked whether he feared losing himself in a relationship had nothing to do with the fact he was a male pop star who had been linked to another, more successful female pop star – it was because I think it’s something that many of us, myself included, often struggle with. It would be naive to remove his comments from a broader debate about gender and power. The fact is that we live in a society where a successful woman is still an intimidating prospect for a man. Healy is an intelligent and liberal man, with a substantial and evolved insight into the world of women – he obviously adores them and wants to be adored by them, he has clearly had some fairly formidable female role models in his life. And yet even he wrestles with these culturally entrenched views of gender roles.Interviewing a pop star is a strange business, particularly when they are in the process of becoming very, very famous. The young man I spoke to several times over the course of a few months was an intriguing figure, prone to verbosity, to occasional stumbles in his vocabulary, to foolish statements coloured by youth and grandeur. But I also found him smart and inquisitive and self-aware. I found him remarkably frank and unfiltered, in a way that is rare these days, and he was often given to almost working things out in mid-air – his mouth running faster than his brain as he tried to decide how he truly felt about a subject, about all the contradictions and confusions that make up a man. I liked that. I liked him.I don’t know what good can come from this week’s kerfuffle. By Monday we will have moved on – to Kim Kardashian’s latest selfie or Cheryl Cole’s new trousers. The 1975 will still sell records. The world will still demand to know who Taylor Swift is dating.Except I do hope for one thing: that the young fans of Healy and his band, perhaps even those of Taylor Swift too, might take a moment to consider their relationship with gossip culture. Because if we’re going to haul anyone up for misogynistic behaviour, I can think of no greater culprits than the tabloid newspapers. And if we’re ever to be truly liberated from outdated gender roles, we can help ourselves by not wasting our precious time on those who perpetuate them.