“If your show doesn’t have a dragon or a White Bronco in it, go home now.”“Television has the ability to make us laugh and cry and, during certain key parts of Game of Thrones, masturbate.”Game of Thrones breaks Emmy record and wins best drama for second year “Many have asked who’s to blame for Donald Trump and I’ll tell you who: he’s sitting right there, that guy – [Apprentice producer] Mark Burnett. Thanks to Mark Burnett we don’t have to watch reality shows anymore, we’re living in one.”“Television can also tear us apart. If it wasn’t for TV, would Donald Trump be running for president? No, he would be at home quietly rubbing up against his wife Malaria while she pretends to be asleep.” “Because everyone in LA knows if you want to win, sit next to Marcia Clark. Marcia, this must be very strange for you. Are you rooting for OJ to win this time?” “Fortunately for everyone in this room there are more shows and more roles than ever before and more diversity than ever before. This year’s nominees are the most diverse ever, and the only thing we value more than diversity is congratulating ourselves on how much we value diversity. The Oscars are now telling people we’re one of their closest friends – we’re not by the way.”“If you’re a person of colour, please, find a white person – it shouldn’t be hard, I see a bunch of them right here – just take a moment to reach out and say thanks for your bravery.”“If we call your name and you’re not here to accept, the Emmy goes to the next name on the list. It’s called the ‘Maggie Smith rule’. This year she had a Sunday ceramics class she couldn’t miss. She goes to other awards shows. She showed up at the Tonys, she goes to the Soul Train awards every year – she’s Downton Absence”“Cuba was so good in the People v OJ, he played OJ so well, I now believe he may have done it.”“Transparent was born a drama but it identifies as a comedy.”“That In Memoriam section kicked ass, I think if we really dig deep we can top it next year.”[After Aziz Ansari and Alan Yang win the writing award for Master of None]: “Now there’s almost too much diversity in this show.”[After Beyonce loses out to Grease live]: “I wouldn’t want to be in their shoes when Kanye realises they beat Beyoncé.”