In order to cram the 1,400-page War And Peace into a stingy six episodes, BBC adapter general Andrew Davies says he took out “the history and the philosophy”. Yeah, bor-ing! Whiskery Victorian novelist Anthony Trollope makes it even easier for a post-Downton Julian Fellowes. His Doctor Thorne (Sunday, 9pm, ITV), the third in Trollope’s social-rollercoasting Barsetshire Chronicles, is so baggy with backstory it actually prompts the author to launch into a hand-wringing apology for the fact that it begins with “two long dull chapters full of description”.Rather than cut or prune said expo-dumps, the author self-flagellates at his readers: “It can hardly be expected that anyone will consent to go through with a fiction that offers so little of allurement in its first pages.” It’s perhaps unsurprising, then, that Trollope is conspicuous by his absence on TV, crowded out by Austen (more heaving) and Dickens (more satirically grotesque). Who remembers He Knew He Was Right, the last dollop of Trollope in 2004? Or the all-star, Davies-adapted The Way We Live Now in 2001? In short, there is a reason why nobody at the BBC has commissioned a 20-part soap based on Trollope’s characters called Trollopian.As lord and master of one of the biggest ever period brands, Fellowes, a self-professed Trollopian, is just the chap to rehabilitate the author. Good news for those of us who cannot countenance a Sunday night in front of the box without the company of land-rich, cash-poor English nobs in frock coats. Fellowes has briskly trimmed Doctor Thorne of its fat, starting with the Actual Pivotal Murder that occurs some way into chapter two in the book. No spoilers, but it takes place at the Greshamsbury village pump at night, an instant improvement on the farm gate in the evening from the novel (no sense of the TV audience, those Victorians).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fiddle faddle…These have been dark times for lovers of period pomp since Downton bowed out on Boxing Day, leaving 10 million of us bereft, and many bamboozled by the fast-forwarded War And Peace on the other side. Although loyal, I admit I’d long wearied of Fellowes’s repetition come Downton’s finale (not another story about one cook secretly helping another one make a stew!) and wished he’d farmed out some of the writing like most showrunning creators. The three-part Thorne acts as a short recuperative break for the man who wrote all 52 episodes of Downton, bar two early co-writes before megalomania set in. Drone-shot in property-supplement Shropshire, High Wycombe and Knebworth, there are “allurements” aplenty in this super-bucolic slice of 19th-century parish life: bustled women moving around as if on castors; rooms with at least one tiger skin rug; and parasols petite enough to be floating in cocktails.The marquee cast is ennobled by Tom Hollander in an atypically straight role as the eponymous “modest country practitioner”, forced to deal with the dark secrets of his niece Mary’s (Stefanie Martini) birth; Rebecca Front as the snooty, pug-carrying Lady Arabella, hell-bent on her daughters “marrying money” after feckless hubby Richard McCabe lost his frilly shirt on the railways; and Ian McShane, having a rare old time as the grizzled, landowning boozer Sir Roger, rarely out of his nightgown. It’s smashing to see Alison Brie, Trudy Campbell from Mad Men, as a visiting Yank – “It is not my beauty but my dollars that render me beautiful” – and there’s Downton crossover, too, in Phoebe Nicholls, previously the lemon-sucking marchioness of Flintshire.This is a world of politesse, “fiddle faddle”, “tomfoolery” and “taking amiss”, where passionate intent must be read into phrases as innocuous as “Good day to you, Madam!” and “Come this minute and make up a hand of whist!” Leanly plotted and crowd-pleasing, it ticks all the Sunday night boxes; there’s a ball in part three of episode one, and this definitive exchange between the good doctor and his niece: “Do you care about bonnets?” “Why shouldn’t I?” And why shouldn’t we?