It has been almost four years since Hannah, Marnie, Jessa and Shoshanna first appeared on our screens in HBO’s Girls, and at the beginning of this year Dunham issued a statement saying that series six, due to air next year, would be the last.“I conceived of Girls when I was 23,” said Dunham, “and now I’m nearly 30. The show has quite perfectly spanned my 20s, the period of time that it’s about – and so it feels like the right time to wrap our story up.”Girls quite perfectly spanned a good chunk of my own twenties, too. I’d been too young, really, for Sex and the City – the show to which Girls is most frequently compared – and by the time I watched it (secretly, because I still wasn’t really allowed) many aspects already seemed dated. Plus, Carrie and co had established careers, they were getting married, having children, getting divorced and getting married again; I was in my early teens.But Girls caught me at the right time. I was in my first full-time job, using holiday allowance to intern (unpaid) elsewhere. My friends worked in coffee shops and as office temps – we blamed the recession for our making slightly less money than we needed to cover rent. And we all watched Girls. For the first series, at least, it resonated. That scene prompted numerous valuable conversations that my friends and I might not otherwise have had Dunham, who also directs and stars in the show, and co-writers and producers Jenni Konner and Judd Apatow, created characters who are variously scatty and neurotic, insecure and self-absorbed, ambitious and codependent. To my mind, it was the story of people who had moved to New York (or any big, cosmopolitan city) expecting, if not quite pursuing, something akin to the Sex and the City lifestyle, before quickly encountering reality. Dunham’s Hannah doesn’t swoon over Manolo Blahniks; she can last in New York for “three and a half more days – maybe seven, if I don’t eat lunch”. At the same time, I was finding I could last in London – by shopping in Tesco’s reduced section, pre-drinking before nights out and walking everywhere to avoid topping up my Oyster card. I stayed home rationing episodes of Girls when I couldn’t afford to leave my flat.As in life, the characters we meet in Girls are not always likable – but they are, to an extent, relatable. Hannah Googles her medical symptoms, spends too long crafting her tweets and cuts her own fringe. The first episode has Jessa mention that she’s not on Facebook (“You’re so fucking classy,” says Zosia Mamet’s Shoshanna), and by episode four Hannah is discussing dick pic etiquette. While Sex and the City had Carrie stopped by the police after smoking a joint in its sixth season, Girls saw Hannah drink opium tea and Shoshanna accidently smoke crack in its very first season.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leah Harper’s girls. Photograph: Leah HarperAnd who could fail to find affection for a show that cast Chris O’Dowd as unpleasant venture capitalist Thomas-John, and later Richard E Grant, as ex-junkie Jasper.It’s worth noting the integral role of Girls’s male characters. Unlike Sex and the City, where men featured in relation to their female counterparts, Girls has central male characters. As in life, they are more than mere bit parts on the periphery. Adam Driver’s Adam might start out as Hannah’s love interest – and almost everyone I know has dated an undependable, un-emotionally-available “season one Adam” – but by season two we see him attending AA meetings, starting a new relationship with Natalia (Shiri Appleby) and taking day trips with another of the show’s male characters, Ray (Alex Karpovsky), who, as the owner of Café Grumpy, is about as far from Friends’s Gunther in terms of character development as you can get.Yet, if much of the appeal of Girls lies in its realism, it’s ironic that fans will – if asked – often claim to be most drawn to Jessa (Jemima Kirke). From her surprise wedding to the discovery that her dead friend has not, in fact, died, Jessa lives out some of the show’s most outlandish storylines. Even so, she remains recognisable, not least when we see her drop in and out of her friends’ lives, often when they most need her, in a way that feels more familiar to the real-life ebbs and flows of friendship than those depicted by ensemble casts. Who actually sees their friends every day – every week even – for years on end?This was not the only thing that made the Girls friendship group so believable; Jessa and Shoshanna – arguably the most implausible pairing – are cousins, although this is rarely referenced. Meanwhile, my own group of girls remains a thoroughly mixed bag, occasionally acknowledging that, had we met more recently, we might not be friends at all. But, like the Girls girls, we’ve got history.For all these reasons and more, the first series of Girls was well received and widely acclaimed. The Hollywood Reporter described it as “one of the most original, spot-on, no-missed-steps series in recent memory”. But, inevitably, there were missteps – the biggest of which often cited as the show’s lack of diversity. The core cast were, and remain, all white (making the pilot’s brief cutaways to Joy Lin, who “knows Photoshop”, all the more cringe-worthy). Season two saw Donald Glover cast as Hannah’s black, Republican boyfriend Sandy, but he barely makes it past the first episode. (What follows their breakup is one of Girls’s many great examples of its characters’ penchant for socio-political aggrandising: Hannah’s gay former boyfriend Elijah (Andrew Ranells) and Marnie ask what went wrong, to which Hannah points a finger at each of them, saying: “Your rights happened, and your rights happened, because I can’t be with someone who’s not an ally to gays and women.” “Thank you…?” they reply.)No need to sweat it, Lena Dunham. Keep your clothes on | Barbara Ellen       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The girls in season five. Photograph: Mark SchaferBut it would be a shame for Girls to be remembered for its faults. The show’s popularity may have waned – last season’s premiere had just 680,000 viewers on HBO, making it the lowest ever season opener for the show, which had around 870,000 viewers for Seasons 1 and 2. Yet ask Girls obsessives what resonated with them the most and they’ll usually reference a particular moment: Hannah and Marnie (Allison Williams) dancing to Robyn, Jessa crying in the bath, or the discovery of Marnie’s godawful music video, for example. For some, specific episodes spring to mind – often the self-contained “bottle episode” One Man’s Trash, where Hannah has a three-day affair with a 42-year-old doctor named Joshua (Patrick Wilson). For me, it’s the episode where Jessa reconnects with her estranged father (Ben Mendelsohn) and pays a visit to him and his new-age girlfriend Petula (Rosanna Arquette). Hannah, Marnie, Shoshanna and Jessa have aged considerably more slowly than those of us in the real world Such scenes became touchstones for the Girls generation. Despite Dunham’s efforts to highlight the fact that Hannah was on opium when she proclaimed herself to be “the voice of a generation”, in many ways she has come to embody her character’s own mission. Not only did the success of Girls propel Dunham to the status of poster-girl for a generation of floundering millennials, but watching back it’s easy to spot plenty of other now-familiar faces: Adam Driver, Gaby Hoffman, Desiree Akhavan and Jenny Slate to name a few. At the time, however, they were simply characters who served as cultural reference points, satisfyingly in step with our own experiences. As excruciating as it was to watch Adam sexually humiliate Natalia in bed, for example, that scene alone prompted numerous (not to mention valuable) conversations that my friends and I might not otherwise have had. Meanwhile, series three’s Beach House episode served as an essential warning of the perils of a “girls’ holiday” – and a reminder that longstanding friendships can, and usually will, recover from even the most spectacular of fallouts.But those of us for whom part of the charm of Girls’s early series lay in seeing our own lives and experiences reflected back at us are unlikely to have seen it maintained over the years. The ever-increasing presence of therapists and occasional stints in rehab, for example, eventually made Girls feel more American than it once did – although it will be interesting to see what happens when Shoshanna moves to Japan in series five.Subsequent series also saw a perhaps unavoidable increase in dramatic incidents; Girls is, after all, a work of fiction. Series one’s depiction of small-town life in Michigan was immediately recognisable to anyone who has ever relocated to a busy city, Marnie’s series-two fling with artist Booth Jonathan (Jorma Taccone) never seemed too far removed, and everyone seems to have at least one friend who has returned to full-time education, as Hannah did at the end of series three. But no one I know has, to my knowledge, played a role in the assisted suicide of an elderly friend (as Jessa does in season three) or in the home birth of a premature, breech baby (Jessa, Hannah and Adam, in season four).Girls star Lena Dunham confirms sixth season will be show's last It’s worth noting that Hannah, Marnie, Shoshanna and Jessa have aged considerably more slowly than those of us in the real world, with the trailer for Girls’ forthcoming series placing Marnie at 25. And what a difference a few more years – approaching the end of your twenties, rather than basking in the middle – can make. Friends who once threw themselves, Marnie-style, into their dream career (relentlessly inviting everyone to watch them perform at open-mic nights and midweek gigs) have dwindled away.The character neuroses that once seemed perfectly reasonable eventually began to irritate many fellow fans, with a significant number not making it to season four. We have not settled down, we are not (many of us) married, or even close. But something has shifted. We are no longer so patient with bad relationships as we might once have been. We are no longer quite so content to live hand-to-mouth if we can help it.There are other smaller but still noticeable differences. When Charlie vanishes from Marnie’s life at the end of series two, it now seems strange that no one referred to his disappearance as ghosting. It’s almost bizarre that not one of the Girls characters has been on a Tinder date – but of course, there is still time. That our lives have not run in perfect tandem with the Girls girls doesn’t mean that those who watched with an awareness and enjoyment of such parallels won’t be keen to see what happens next. Like a book that you read increasingly slowly because you don’t want it to end, I’ll be savouring the final two series of Girls – while, at the same time, hoping that any plans for Girls: The Movie never come to fruition.