1975: ’75 – My Mama Ain’tStephin Merritt’s bohemian upbringing as the child of a single mother dominates the first disc of 50 Song Memoir, which swims with her beliefs in alternative science and eastern philosophy and reads like an Eat, Pray, Love audiobook narrated by Richard Dawkins. On ’74 – No, we learn that his mother is convinced that “this physical universe is a big holographic show”, while the cranky buzz of ’78 – Blizzard of ’78 is set on a Vermont commune “with all the Isaac Asimov anybody could want” and concerns Merritt defying its music ban by starting a teenage band called One and a Half, which “made the Cramps sound orchestral”. ’75 – My Mama Ain’t is Merritt’s most precise portrait of his mother, however, documenting her tendencies to give away her money to cults, gain audiences with gurus in ashrams and believe in “everything from auras to Zen reiki”.Sing a sad song: how singer-songwriters are turning trauma into art “My family was very beatnik. We made our own granola. We tie-dyed our own T-shirts, did a little boutiquing. We made candles with little om symbols on the sides. My mother’s religious seeking ended up with her being a Tibetan Buddhist. My mother has travelled a lot, following various gurus around. She was in a particular kind of Tibetan Buddhism which could well be described as a cult. Her guru was Chögyam Trungpa. He was what was known as a ‘crazy wisdom guru’ – he liked to encourage drunk driving, which didn’t turn out well for him. He thought drunk driving was very good for you, to sharpen the awareness. That particular sect was plagued with certain scandals that I won’t bother you with. It sure looks like a cult from the outside and, in my experience of it from the inside, it sure felt like a cult. My mother would never think of it as a cult – it was no more difficult to get out of than typical religions are.“She tried to convert me, but I’m not convertible. I’m a militant atheist from birth. I have not a religious bone in my body, I don’t understand the impulse. I don’t see that religion explains everything and I don’t think it’s another way of seeking truth because you already know you’re not going to find truth if it’s called religion. If it were actually true, it would be called science. We’ve been talking since I was about five about the existence or lack thereof of the physical universe. I knocked on the table and said: ‘Look, there it is, the physical universe.’ She picks up the cup and says: ‘But where is cup?’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stephin Merritt of the Magnetic Fields performs on stage at in Portland, US. Photograph: Anthony Pidgeon/Redferns via Getty Images1980: ’80 – London by JetpackAt the age of 15, while his mother visited a Buddhist retreat in Scotland, Merritt spent August 1980 in London, narrowly escaping the predatory paedophiles, and tragically unaware that he could have been sipping mocktails with his future neon-cheekboned heroes.“I had no idea until later that the new romantic scene was happening. I was here exactly when I would want to be here, but I didn’t know at the time. It’s a terrible shame that I didn’t know that I was old enough to go to nightclubs. There were clubs you could go to if you weren’t old enough to drink; you just weren’t old enough to get served but you could go – then, not now. Meanwhile, apparently everyone in London was dressing like a pirate but I didn’t actually see them. So if I could go back and live a time again, I’d live August of 1980 over again. The new romantic idea is my template for how music works in society. What the music is is not necessarily as important as the overall presentation, very much including the visuals, and the haircut is at least as important as the lyrics. I wanted to be John Foxx, I still want to be John Foxx, hence the song for 1983, Foxx and I. He says of himself that John Foxx is a character that is like himself but better looking, with better lighting. I wish I had an equivalent of that.“I was propositioned on the tube while I was here, but I didn’t realise I was being propositioned so nothing happened. An older gentleman came up to me and complimented me on my clothing and asked if I wanted to accompany him somewhere, essentially to come up and see his etchings.”1984: ’84 – Danceteria!Hitting college, Merritt made the four-storey Manhattan nightclub Danceteria his home from home, often falling into 7am class straight from the dancefloor because: “You’ll get educated at Danceteria.”“I was at New York University from 1983-84 and I would walk to Danceteria, which was a mile away, and sit on the third-floor sofa and watch the latest videos, and famous people would spill drinks on me. I was there six nights a week for my whole period of going there, maybe six months. I saw the Immaculate Consumptive, which was Marc Almond, Nick Cave, Lydia Lunch and Jim Foetus, who fell on my head. He stagedived and I was the only person underneath him. I had neck problems for a few weeks. I don’t think he intentionally stagedived, I think he was drunk and fell off the stage. I saw the Shirelles and ESG, it was impossibly eclectic. I saw Einstürzende Neubauten there in their first American show, where they’d been to the junkyard and brought back, among other things, a 20ft sheet of corrugated metal, which they demolished with a circular saw. Eventually, they did so much damage to the stage that Danceteria turned off the sound, but without the amplification they were still so loud that it was ear-splitting, because it was a construction site.”1993: ’93 – Me and Fred and Dave and TedAfter college, Merritt shared a grotty one-bedroom apartment with three crazy roommates, a dog, a cat and several thousand cockroaches. Fred was a 22-year-old champion snogger, Dave was a gay Republican and Ted was fresh out of prison for holding up “a john” at gunpoint.“These four characters – one was my boyfriend, one was his boyfriend and the other was the boyfriend’s boyfriend. We were a love rhomboid. It was all very dramatic. One of them had got out of jail – I don’t want to be specific because I don’t want any problems. We had a squalid apartment which I spent my time trying to get out of. The bugs were the big problem, cockroaches. The kitchen was scary. I tried to not eat anything that had been in the kitchen, I tried not to eat in the apartment at all, which in New York is a good strategy: if you don’t eat in your apartment, you don’t get bugs. The one I call Dave offered me the chance to start the Log Cabin chapter in New Jersey, a society for gay Republicans. That was never at risk of happening, I’m not a Republican.”2002: ’02 – Be True to Your Bar   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Merritt wrote most of his masterwork 69 Love Songs in Dick’s Bar in New York, and he pays tribute to it in this theatrical showstopper that brings up the brilliantly unthinkable prospect of a Barbican full of people waving banners celebrating their local Wetherspoons.“It’s a parody of the idea of a pub singalong. In my case, it’s a declaration of allegiance to Dick’s Bar. It represents 2002 because that’s when Dick’s Bar closed – they didn’t renew the lease or something. When I was writing 69 Love Songs, I was literally there eight hours a day, writing. I used to bring Irving, my chihuahua, and sit in the window seat. My friend Dudley had a few experiences where he would put his drink down and, when no one was looking, Irving would drink Dudley’s drink and get drunk and fall asleep.”• Magnetic Fields’ 50 Song Memoir is out now.