When the Golden Globe nominations were announced on Monday, it was a bit of a shock to hear NBC’s freshman hourlong, This Is Us, announced in the outstanding drama series category. It’s a family melodrama on a broadcast network that traffics in earnest emotions and aims to make its audience cry as often as possible – not the sort of edgy material that usually receives critical plaudits and shiny trophies. Even more peculiar is that it’s a series in its first year. There were no water cooler monster hits on broadcast in 2016 – no Empire-esque juggernaut that advanced the cultural conversation the way Lee Daniels’ hip-hop saga did in 2015. The big four networks continue to lag behind their cable counterparts in the race to accumulate that elusive buzz, though it’s not for a lack of trying.Sob story: how This Is Us brought the TV tearjerker back to life Every season, the comedies get more high concept and the dramas more outrageous. This year, we’ve seen imaginary friends rendered in CGI, animated He-Man ripoffs interacting with real actors, and what may or may not be a wish fulfillment fantasy about the entire US federal government being replaced by just Kiefer Sutherland wearing fake glasses. Fox’s baseball drama, Pitch, should have all the elements in place to enter the zeitgeist. Its story of the first female professional ballplayer is officially licensed by Major League Baseball and is more layered than its logline.People like me – media people who spend most days in front of a computer – get their jollies from a clever premise or an audacious narrative structure. Part of the joy of watching Westworld came from trying to solve the various mysteries and make sense of the many plot threads woven through each episode. It also gave TV pundits and other entertainment journalists something to write about each week. Shows like Pitch, Designated Survivor, or ABC’s Conviction don’t do that. By virtue of being on a broadcast network, these shows can be audacious only up to a point, because they have to fit within the framework of 40 minutes of actual runtime and 20 minutes of commercials. It’s an old complaint that dates back to the beginning of cable’s hegemony over awards season that’s about as musty as lamentations about not being able to curse or show nudity.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest None of the aforementioned shows would necessarily be better with exploding heads or bare asses, though Game of Thrones might be worse without them. There’s a unique beauty to the network drama that This Is Us (or Empire, Scandal or Law & Order: SVU) typifies. Like countless other network pilots, This Is Us opened with an ambitious first episode that didn’t reveal its plot twist (which I won’t spoil here) until the very end. After that reveal, This Is Us had to settle into a rhythm and a repeatable structure. Milo Ventimiglia’s Jack struggles with fatherhood, Chrissy Metz’s Kate struggles with her weight, and so on. Secrets might be revealed here and there, but there is comfort in existing inside the box of broadcast restriction.Forget bleak and edgy shows, this is a time for blanket-hugging comfort There’s also comfort for the viewer. This Is Us harkens back to a time when TV could tell simple stories well, when it was enough to elicit an emotion deeper than screaming “WTF” and running to Reddit immediately after the credits roll. Neither the cable model nor the broadcast model is superior, but there is some true pleasure to be had in a genuine throwback. NBC hasn’t had a Golden Globe nominee in the outstanding drama category since Heroes (which, coincidentally also starred Ventimiglia) which certainly wasn’t in the mold of Thirtysomething or Peyton Place. Empire also looks back to an older form – the upper-class soap opera – but twists it just enough to feel truly modern. Maybe that’s the trick for the big four networks. The old formulas still work – family dramas, workplace sitcoms, cop shows – but it’s not enough to just set them in the future or make the cop a wizard. It’s more valuable to set these shows in the present, the world we recognize, or at least to project modern themes through the prism of genre entertainment. This Is Us touches on race, gender roles and body image issues in a way that’s accessible and uncluttered by aesthetic fireworks. Being an easy fit during a year when nothing seemed to make any sense might be the most revolutionary thing a show can do.