It is a special kind of wordsmith who can pay tribute to a music icon, and yet still manage to turn it into a dig at the British royal family and a piece of pro-vegan propaganda. Morrissey is that wordsmith.In a statement, released to his fansite True to You, the former Smiths frontman paid tribute to Prince, who died last week aged 57. He wrote: “Although a long-serving vegan and a strong advocate of the abolition of the abattoir, neither of these points was mentioned in the one hundred television reports that I witnessed yesterday as they covered the enchanted life and sad death of Prince. The points were not mentioned because they are identified as expressions against e$tabli$hment interests, therefore we, mere galley slaves, aren’t allowed to know.”Morrissey added: “Prince has influenced the world more than is suspected, and somehow the life of his music is just beginning, and he would be thanked not only by humans but also animals for living his lyrical life as he did. Humans, you see, are not the world.”Prince obituary: ‘the music flowed out in an unstoppable torrent’ Morrissey went on to compare the media coverage afforded to the 90th birthday of Queen Elizabeth with that allotted to the purple one. He said: “Prince, who made something of his life as opposed to having fortune handed to him, is far more ‘royal’ than Elizabeth 2, and he will be mourned far more than she, for she could never make herself lovable, no matter how many paid and promoted non-stories flood the newspapers of the world. The laughing gulls of Buckingham Palace will never allow you to forget who wields the stick. And, of course, we know very well what gulls tend to do on the people below.He added: “Prince is the royal that people love, whereas Elizabeth 2 was thrust on the people who have never been asked whether or not they want her.”Morrissey wasn’t the only artist who paid tribute to Prince at the weekend. Lady Gaga, posting on Instagram, wrote: “I tend to believe that when we die our souls hover for at least a moment, if not longer, before they either rest or are recycled into the consciousness of an already living being, or maybe a newborn baby. Isn’t it amazing Prince shared his soul with us so deeply before his death, and now after we will be replenished endlessly by both his legacy and all that he still has to give from the beyond. We learned so much. You just found God early, he needed you upstairs to innovate in heaven.”At the Coachella festival in California, LCD Soundsystem covered his 1981 song Controversy in tribute, while Bruce Springsteen opened his New York show with a version of Purple Rain.