Joseph Mallord William Turner knew he’d be on a banknote one day. You can see it in his eyes in the visionary, assured self-portrait he painted in about 1799, gazing through the time vortex at his own future fame in justifiable confidence that he will always be acknowledged as the best of British artists.The Bank of England’s choice of this white male painter who died in 1851 as the first ever British visual artist on our money may be criticised as conservative, safe and even reinforcing social hierarchy. We seem more and more to treat things like this as chances to make moral or political points. Why not a woman or artist of colour? And why not someone modern? Barbara Hepworth, Vanessa Bell, Ronald Moody or Laura Knight, maybe?JMW Turner to be face of next £20 note No wonder the Bank made its announcement at Turner Contemporary in Margate and got Tracey Emin on board to stress Turner’s “relevance”. It has cause to be nervous. Yet it has made the right choice. It has recognised true genius.Relevant or not, modern or not, progressive or not - as a matter of fact his politics were broadly liberal and his masterpiece Slavers Throwing Overboard the Dead and Dying is one of the greatest denunciations of exploitation, inhumanity, and perhaps even capitalism in art – the force of Turner’s claim is irresistible.He raised landscape painting to new heights of imagination and profundity. His colossal seas explode out of the frame and his skies envelop you in dizzying symphonies of emotion. He is at one and the same time a consummate observer of nature and a poet who paints from soul to soul. The only other British artists who genuinely deserved consideration are Turner’s contemporaries John Constable and William Blake – the Romantic age really was our finest hour, artistically – but Turner transcends both. Constable is a painter of pure observation, Blake a seer of inner visions. Turner somehow synthesises these opposed artistic extremes to create art of total naturalness and unbounded possibility. All great art is complex and Turner’s does justice to the complexity of life. The grandeur and generosity of Turner, full of enthusiasm, passionately engaged with the politics of his time – his 1812 painting Hannibal Crossing the Alps is a horrific vortex of natural chaos that is also a satire on Napoleon – create a power that splashes out of his canvases into real life. He’s one of those artists who make you feel the salty wildness of existence. Just as a Rembrandt portrait makes you see not a painting but an actual person before you, Turner’s paintings put you in the sea, on a boat, lashed to the mast. The world is more glorious after a walk among his canvases.Turner had an innate understanding of what makes art into more than just a pretty picture. He tried not for pedantic accuracy but suggestiveness and atmosphere, giving his onlookers something to do as our minds enter his undefined, unconfined spaces sculpted by light.The most passionate fans of Turner have been modern artists from Henri Matisse to Olafur Eliasson (creator of Tate Modern’s “indoor sun”) who respond to his alchemical colour magic. Mark Rothko even gave his great red and purple Seagram murals to the Tate partly in homage to his hero Turner.Dead, white male? Conservative? No, Turner is a radical visionary whose creativity is still inspiring artists today, and not just those who win the prize named after him. The Bank of England has honoured a genius who is very much alive.