There’s been plenty of outrage over the news that two exam boards – AQA and OCR – no longer require GCSE drama students to see a live theatre performance as part of the course. They suggest that, while visits to the theatre are welcome, schools can instead draw on free digital resources from the National Theatre and the RSC.Why digital theatre poses no threat to live performance The level-headed Alistair Smith wrote in the Stage that it was “bonkers”, arguing that, while digital theatre may be an art form in its own right, it can’t match live theatre. In the Guardian, Yvonne Roberts argued that “one more curtain is falling on a collective experience”.I understand where they are coming from, but I’m not entirely convinced that the end of civilisation has come about because exam boards are being pragmatic about the opportunities for teachers and pupils. These are guidelines, and many schools will continue to take students to see live performances because drama teachers, increasingly under pressure in an educational culture where some subjects are clearly valued over others, are passionate about their subject.Those teachers know that watching Othello beamed into a classroom is not the same as watching Othello performed by the RSC on a stage, with an audience, at Stratford-upon-Avon. But how many schoolchildren studying GCSE drama can travel there? If they can’t get to Stratford, they could go to see shows at their local theatre – although that might also be easier said than done. If you live in or near London or a city such as Manchester, taking a party of GCSE students to the theatre is relatively easy. But what if your school serves a rural area and the nearest theatre is 60 or more miles away? That’s a long evening involving substantial transport costs even before the tickets have been purchased.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benedict Cumberbatch as Hamlet. His Barbican performance was a popular live stream. Photograph: Johan Persson/PAIt’s not just schools in rural areas that are affected. One of the issues highlighted by the Rebalancing Our Cultural Capital report is that there are entire areas of the country – the north-east in particular – that are ill-served when it comes to the arts, and especially theatre. We could view this move by the two exam boards as a reflection of years of failure in cultural provision, but I suspect that the government’s blindness in recognising the enriching and transformative possibilities of access to the arts probably plays its part, too. For those of us who live within range of theatres offering consistently strong work, it would be nonsensical to study GCSE drama without going to the theatre. But most pupils in the UK don’t live somewhere like this, and it’s only sensible to take advantage of technology that improves the distribution of theatre.Live screenings have changed theatre – but they must not upstage it Digital broadcasts are no substitute for live theatre, but they are often an excellent experience. A digital version of a high-quality show offers a far better option than a poor or indifferent live staging. Many a school trip has put children off theatre for life.I would much prefer students to have the chance to take the GCSE – which has a significant practical element – rather than see it cease to be offered by schools who see theatregoing as an insurmountable obstacle. Research suggests that those who watch digital performances are often spurred by the experience into going to see live theatre (although we must be cautious about whether the effect is the same in all parts of the country). Someone who has never seen theatre in any form is far less likely to start attending, because they think it’s not for them. So, while the exam board guidelines are not ideal, they are not “bonkers”, and may help to keep the drama GCSE alive.