In London, the Donmar Warehouse has just opened its all-female The Tempest, in a cast led by Dame Harriet Walter and with Phyllida Lloyd as director. It is the culmination of a project that started with a production of Julius Caesar in 2012 and continued in 2014 with a Henry IV. The plays were a collaboration with the theatre company Clean Break, an organisation that works with female prisoners and former offenders. Completists can see all three dramas performed over the course of a day this autumn. For many who saw Julius Caesar in 2012, there was shock – and joy – in seeing female actors grapple energetically with Shakespeare’s heftiest roles. The way the women uninhibitedly occupied stage space (“manspread” was not yet in the Oxford English Dictionary) was a revelation.That same year, Pentabus Theatre’s artistic director, Elizabeth Freestone, in partnership with the Guardian, conducted research into the gender balance in the 10 theatres most generously subsidised by the public, and found that at every level – from boards of trustees to designers and actors – there was a 2:1 ratio in favour of men. Shakespeare, in fact, is part of the problem. Only 16% of his characters – and of course he was writing for male companies – are female. And they have fewer lines: his most garrulous woman is Rosalind, with under half Hamlet’s lines. Such is the cultural entrenchment of Shakespeare in British theatre that this paucity of women can seem normal. We have internalised a gender imbalance on our stages. And that is a problem. Not for the obvious reason that publicly accountable theatres ought not to be employing fewer women than men, but because the theatre is the art form above all that promises to reflect our world and show it as it is; and because theatre feeds so strongly into related, and much more culturally pervasive, media such as television and film.Since 2012, some important steps have been taken. Vicky Featherstone, artistic director since 2013 of the Royal Court, England’s most important new-writing theatre, has championed work by and about women, not least the joyful Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour, which started life in Edinburgh last year and ran at London’s National Theatre in the summer. Ms Lloyd – who, as the director of the wildly successful stage and film musical Mamma Mia, has great clout – has undertaken only to direct work with a 50-50 gender balance. Emma Rice, too, has undertaken to even out casting at Shakespeare’s Globe, whose helm she took this year. Director Katie Mitchell, playwright Alice Birch and designer Chloe Lamford created Ophelias Zimmer, a version of Hamlet seen entirely from Ophelia’s point of view. Tonic Theatre, under the leadership of Lucy Kerbel, has supported theatres in examining and addressing gender imbalance on stage and backstage.Great female actors have taken on the great Shakespeare roles for ages but now it is becoming less of an oddity – one thinks of Maxine Peake’s Hamlet at the Royal Exchange in Manchester in 2014; and Glenda Jackson’s Lear, which opens next month at the Old Vic in London, directed by Deborah Warner. Art and life do not exist unmixed. It is important that women see their possibilities, their capabilities and their wildest imaginations reflected on stage – even if that means some judicious rethinking of Shakespeare’s texts.