Like all the best people in comic books, Alex Segura has a dual identity.By day, he edits, writes and publicises the adventures of America’s favourite teens – Archie, Jughead, Betty, Veronica and the rest – from the offices of Archie Comic Publications in Segura’s adopted home of New York City.By night, however, he adopts a distinctly darker persona – that of the author of a series of down, dirty and gritty crime novels set in his native Miami.“Maybe I’m a little twisted, but I see a bit of noir in Archie, so it doesn’t strike me as weird to shift between the two,” Segura says. Now that might be the first time you’ve seen “Archie” and “noir” together in the same sentence, but it can’t be denied that in the past couple of years the company’s output has exploded in terms of progressiveness and diversification. It has launched a horror imprint, pitting the gang against zombies and worse; the core title has been rebooted with some of the biggest writers and artists in comics to give it a more polished feel (think Riverdale 90210); and the company has set up Dark Circle comics, bringing back a load of old superhero properties such as The Shield and Black Hood, many of which are very dark indeed (check out Hangman in particular on that score).Segura edits the Dark Circle line, on top of his main day job, which is overseeing PR and marketing – a position that’s never been busier as the company expands not only into different imprints but also with a pending TV show based on the Archie characters.“Archie is a hugely recognisable brand, and that was something I tried to tap into when I first joined the company and continue to push today,” says Segura, who has also worked in a similar PR role at DC Comics. “In my eyes, Archie is as recognisable as Superman and Mickey Mouse. He’s an icon. People know Archie.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The cover of Archie Meets Ramones, Segura’s new comic project. Photograph: ArchieHowever, people might not yet know Miami private eye Pete Fernandez. He’s the star of Segura’s first novel, Silent City, which will be reissued by Polis Books on 15 March, followed on 12 April by the second adventure, Down the Darkest Street.Segura says: “The birth of Pete was a long process, and I didn’t know it was happening until I got a few chapters into the first book. I had just moved back to New York to work for DC and had graduated from reading some of the classics of crime fiction – like Chandler – to more modern masters, like James Ellroy, Dennis Lehane, Laura Lippman and George Pelecanos. These books had a huge effect on me. Not only were the heroes flawed and conflicted, as opposed to the much more polished and iconic Marlowe, but each book had a very clear and evocative sense of place. You’d never confuse Ellroy’s Los Angeles with the Boston of Lehane, or Lippman’s Baltimore. “Reading these books took me away. I felt like I wasn’t just reading a good yarn – I was getting a crash course in how our cities survive. That sounds like heady stuff, but if there’s a genre that not only entertains but also teaches us about who we, as a people, are, it’s crime fiction.”Segura wanted to put his hometown on the crime map, he says. “The books go beyond the Miami people see on the screen – it’s more than just beautiful beaches, swimwear and Cuban coffee. It’s a complicated place, with dark corners, corruption and real, working-class people. I wanted to show that and also create a character that I could relate to. I always point to Pete as someone I went to school with and lost touch with. We have a lot in common – Cuban American, journalism background, some overlap in musical tastes – but many differences. He’s a great character to write because he keeps me on my toes. He’s sharp and curious but also prone to getting a fist in the face because of his drive to find things out.”Prior to embarking on his comics career, Segura was a journalist in Miami. He says: “Working in newspapers – and reading Miami papers for years – certainly helped. Miami is overloaded with stories, from dumb-as-nails criminals to political corruption to international crime to serial killers. You name it, Miami has it, with a wedge of lime. I was only a reporter for a brief time, but even that helped me get a sense of the tiny corners of the city and surrounding areas and always informs my work: I want to show readers the different layers of the town and the people living there.”Segura also shows off his writing chops – albeit very different ones – in Archie comics. He’s written a few issues of the main title – notably the Occupy Riverdale storyline, in which the gang is dragged into the politicised 21st century – and two books that satisfy his musical itch: Archie Meets Kiss and the forthcoming Archie Meets Ramones.“Writing comics and novels stretch different muscles but also inform each other, which I find helpful. Comics are purely visual and so collaborative, while writing novels can be quite solitary,” he says. “I find that working on one helps prepare me for the other. But in terms of content, yeah, they’re quite different. The Miami of Pete Fernandez is dark and dangerous – not the kind of thing you’d find in an Archie story. I think I just like the variety. One day I could be writing about Archie getting a detention and the next day I’m researching Miami cults and their murder rituals. It definitely keeps things interesting.”