When you open a new performing arts facility in a city that already has a few of them, you need to make an entrance. So as Limor Tomer, the Metropolitan Museum’s general manager for concerts and lectures, began to think about the programming that could introduce the new Met Breuer, she seized on an opportunity to claim a US premiere for the overall institution: a complete performance of Karlheinz Stockhausen’s final series of compositions. On 25 and 26 March, the Met’s three campuses – the main museum on Fifth Avenue, the Met Breuer and the Cloisters – will jointly host performances of every piece from Stockhausen’s Klang (or Sound).Begun in 2004 and developed until the composer’s death in 2007, Klang carries the subtitle “the 24 hours of the day”. Filled with spiritual references to Stockhausen’s childhood Catholicism as well as his later interest in the mystical Urantia Book, the hours of Klang often reflect the composer’s typical desire to melt minds and ears – an effect with which any avant-classical fan who’s taken in earlier Stockhausen works like the three-orchestra Gruppen should be familiar. The Met Breuer review – museum's new outpost has an uncertain start Though Stockhausen only finished 21 chamber-scale pieces, Analog Arts, the Met’s co-producing partner, notes in its brochure that the composer “left no sketches for the final three hours of Klang. It is unclear that he ever intended to finish the cycle. As the cycle took shape, many of his collaborators felt Stockhausen was signaling that his attention had turned towards his next life”. Similarly, some of the “hours” can be performed in 20 minutes (while Natural Durations, the third hour, takes two hours to perform). No matter the peculiarities regarding overall design, sections of Klang can lay claim to being some of the late modernist’s most striking pieces – occasionally hitting with an impact equal to the grand theatrics of the composer’s prior grand project, the seven-opera Licht cycle.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karlheinz Stockhausen in 2005. Photograph: Ross Gilmore/RedfernsThe 13th hour of Klang, titled Cosmic Pulses, is Stockhausen’s last purely electronic composition. And it has the feeling of an ante being raised, as 24 different looped melodies go through tempo and register variations while whizzing around an audience in surround-sound. (This hour of Klang was previously presented, on its own, at Brooklyn’s Issue Project Room, by Joe Drew – who will serve as the electronic-music specialist in the Met’s run.) Subsequent hours of Klang use select “layers” of Cosmic Pulses, placing them in dialog with live instrument parts. The 20th hour, Edentia, is scored for a soprano saxophonist and the highly active fourth, fifth and sixth layers of Cosmic Pulses. (It is not to be missed.) The hours that precede Cosmic Pulses are just as intriguing – variously employing multiple harps, wind groups and solo piano. And Heaven’s Door, the only theatrical hour of Klang, calls for a percussionist and a “little girl”.“It’s crazy that it hasn’t actually been done, all of it, in the US,” Tomer tell the Guardian. Given that the hours of Klang can be neatly divided into three “parts”, Tomer says: “In a flash it came to me that what this piece really needs is three very different sets of venues … It became obvious that this could be incredibly true to the spirit of the piece when it’s presented. Because we have these very different, iconic buildings, galleries and public spaces.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An auditorium inside the main Met building will be the principal location for some of the most difficult-to-mount hours. “The long piano piece, the harp piece, and of course Heaven’s Door: we need a stage for that,” Tomer says. “We need to be able to control the lighting and the sound to give it the kind of performance formality that only the auditorium can provide.” Usually, events in the Met’s auditorium are separately ticketed, but Tomer enthusiastically underlines that “the whole performance is free with museum admission”.The “chamber” music hours of Klang will mostly be presented up at the Cloisters, the French monastery which overlooks the Hudson river, while the electronic music hours will generally sit in one of the Met Breuer’s most technologically advanced galleries. Though in the spirit of helping visitors get a sense of Klang’s varied sonics, Tomer says that the venue-split is not being followed “didactically”. “If somebody only goes to the Cloisters, they’ll be able to hear some of the parts that are mainly being presented in the other galleries. If someone just went to one or two of the venues, they’ll get a very good sense of the whole piece.”Percussionist Stuart Gerber, who worked closely with Stockhausen in the composer’s final years, was supposed to give the New York premiere of Heaven’s Door at Lincoln Center’s White Light Festival, in 2012 – though that performance was waylaid by Hurricane Sandy. He’s lugging his large, art-installation-size percussion instrument back to New York for these performances. And he still remembers with fondness his first introduction to this particular hour of Klang.“It was October of 2005; I get this package in the mail. It’s from the Verlag [Stockhausen’s home label]. And I open it up, and it’s the score to Heaven’s Door. And then he wrote me a fax, which was great … He said he had this idea for a piece – and like a lot of his pieces, he dreamt about this – of, you know, getting to a door … and having to play your way into heaven.” (Fans of Stockhausen may recognize the dramatic-audition trope from the first act of Donnerstag aus Licht.) “Each page has a different description at the top. The first page just says playing [the door] ‘normally’. The second page says ‘carefully or cautiously’ … There’s one that’s ‘angry’ and one that’s ‘explaining’ … And there’s even one that’s ‘humorous’.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stockhausen’s score for Cosmic Pulses. Photograph: SuppliedStockhausen wanted an old church door to serve as the percussion instrument for this composition, “so they went to a place that sold church doors, old ones, in Germany,” Gerber recalls. “They tried out a bunch of doors, and of course it sounded horrible. If you’re going to get rid of a church door, it’s probably because it’s rotten. Regardless, they weren’t made for music. So he was not happy with the result. Then he said: ‘OK, this didn’t work, so we’re going to build a door.’“The score is graphically notated and … the door is divided up into 12 sections. So it’s a double-leaved door, each with six panels. And they’re arranged from pitch highest to lowest. So it’s kind of like a vertical marimba, but not tuned to specific pitches. And then the score is representative of where you play on the door. So each pulse has 12 little squares with them, and then dots on them … and that’s where you play on the door. And, you know, I like to say: ‘if I’m successful and I get the door open’ … something else happens.” (Those who own the Stockhausen Verlag CD of Heaven’s Door know what happens, though why spoil the ending ahead of the New York premiere?)Aside from his own work on stage, Gerber has also seen the rest of Klang performed, thanks to his role as an instructor at the Stockhausen summer courses in Kurten, Germany. And while he identifies a connection between this virtuosic music and Stockhausen’s other major works, he observes something unique in these final pieces. “It’s obviously totally different than Licht in some ways. He was always very spiritual … but these seem even more ritualistic, more personally spiritual than the others. Maybe because they’re on a smaller scale, they seem more reverent in a way. More intimate.” But still plenty audacious.