The outbreak of anti-German sentiment in Britain that greeted the news that Queen Victoria was to marry Prince Albert rang unpleasantly familiar bells for the author of ITV’s new hit costume drama, Victoria, when she researched Sunday night’s episode.“I wrote these scenes long before the Brexit vote, but it did feel uncannily prescient when I saw it again on screen. I was slightly horrified and quite depressed by it really. Our Little Englander suspicions have been around a long time,” said writer Daisy Goodwin.The former television producer, who has enjoyed critical acclaim and high audience ratings in the past few weeks for her first television series, which stars Jenna Coleman as the young queen, said this weekend she had been surprised to find British prejudice against Germans had roots far further back than she had guessed.“I had thought a lot of the anti-German feeling in this country started with the first world war but, as I read around, I found it had been here a long time by then,” she said.After studying the newspapers and parliamentary debates of the era, Goodwin tried to reflect the public mood in her dramatic version of the months leading up to Victoria and Albert’s wedding in February 1840.Scenes in Sunday night’s episode will show politicians, including the Duke of Wellington, expressing fears that a foreign country might gain sway over the British empire, while the young Queen’s advisor, prime minister Lord Melbourne, played by Rufus Sewell, attempts to reassure his peers. But concerns were not limited to Westminster.“There were lots of cartoons at the time of Albert as a sausage. He really was fighting against a prejudice that was not of his making,” said Goodwin, in support of her fictionalised account.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Daisy Goodwin, the writer of Victoria. Photograph: Rex ShutterstockHansard parliamentary records for January 1840 show that after the Queen formally stated her intention of “allying myself in marriage with the Prince Albert of Saxe Coburg and Gotha”, she was quick to ask for an income for her future husband.“The constant proofs which I have received of your attachment to my person and family persuade me that you will enable me to provide for such an establishment as may appear suitable to the rank of the prince and the dignity of the crown,” she said.She was right to want clarification: parliament was not keen to offer her groom either a title or a large state allowance. Instead MPs were mainly concerned to reassure themselves and the public that he was not a Catholic gold-digger.Lord Seaford’s kinder comments recorded in Hansard reveal the patriarchal attitudes of the age: “It was impossible, considering the age and sex of the sovereign, that their lordships could consider this event drily, as a mere political alliance, or without feelings of the most anxious solicitude as to its influence upon the future domestic happiness of her majesty.”Goodwin was interested to see that popular prejudice against Germans took a different form in Victoria’s day. Far from being caricatured as officious and expansionist, they were ridiculed as chaotic and ill-educated.“Germany did not really exist as a country – it was a collection of principalities,” she said. “They were thought of as a ramshackle country that was rather low grade, a bit like the way some ignorant people might talk about Romanians now. It was thought Albert wasn’t grand enough to marry the Queen of England and Wellington asked for reassurances about his Protestantism.”A report in an edition of the Observer from 25 November 1839 supports Goodwin’s portrayal of the sniffy remarks made about his family background: “The singular fortunes of the family of Saxe Cobourg [sic] are the extraordinary and wonderful incidents of the age. The domain of Cobourg, the patrimonial estate of the present duke, the eldest of the family and brother of Leopold, was a very principality, the net revenue did not exceed £700 per annum. Of course upon such an income, the family pride was difficult to support, and the means of education for the younger branches extremely restricted.”The article goes on: “Never before, perhaps, in so short a space of time, did a family attain fortunes so magnificent without deeds of arms or special services of any public nature.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A contemporary engraving of the couple. Photograph: Rischgitz/Getty ImagesThe Times came to the same conclusion on 11 February 1840: “It would scarcely be possible to find in history an instance of a princely house increasing its hereditary possessions to such a degree and at the same time extending itself upon three Royal European thrones.”Goodwin explained that worry centred on sexual politics and snobbery, as well as religion: “Albert was penniless and that certainly worried them. They did not want to give him a proper title, like Duke of Edinburgh, because they did not want him to sit in the house of Lords. He was furious about it because he had a strong inclination towards public service,” she said.Albert’s uncle Leopold I, king of the Belgians, the man who brokered the engagement and is played in the series by Alex Jennings, had been viewed as a fortune hunter when he married Princess Charlotte of Wales in 1816. He was given a state allowance of £50,000 a year that he continued to draw long after Charlotte died in 1817.“The Coburgs were a little like the Kardashians, or maybe even the Middletons,” said Goodwin. “And there was concern that a member of the royal family was marrying into the family once again.”Coleman’s Victoria, who, quite correctly, Goodwin points out, has no German accent as, although her mother was German, she was raised in England, asks why her people hate Germans so much. “Melbourne is said to have told her, ‘I don’t mind their talents, but I don’t think much of their beauty,’” said Goodwin.