When George Lucas shot Star Wars in 1976, I wonder whether he realised that Yoda, his most peaceful creation, would be causing chaos outside of London’s National Gallery 40 years later.Well actually, it isn’t the real Yoda – it isn’t even a Yoda with make-up. It’s someone wearing a 50p Yoda mask. And unlike in Star Wars, if you traipse across the pedestrianised side of Trafalgar Square, you’ll probably see more than one little green guy: you’re more likely to see an army big enough to scare the Dark Lord.Floating Yodas aren't art, but don't kick them to the kerb, National Gallery These street performers and living statues are little more than clones of real artists, which is perhaps why the gallery’s new director, Gabriele Finaldi, wants to ban them. Finaldi said this week: “We are in the process of engagement with street performers in the area to find a solution that appeals to everyone, as we want to make sure we keep a vibrant feel to the area but also deal with concerns that have been raised with us.”If you take the word “street” out of “street performer”, you’re left with the essence of what they do: perform. And when I say “they”, I also mean me.My street performing days, as a centurion on the cobbles of James Street in Covent Garden, ended up taking me to the stage of the nearby Royal Opera House to play the executioner in Salome. My alfresco skills have taken me across the globe to work, from Miami to Cairo to Beijing. In each of these locations, street performances have been welcomed. The demand for the genuine and unique self-expression of live art is very much alive and well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Duncan Meadows in his street performing daysSo, why the hatred with the current crop? While I made sure to always tailor my act to the particular environment, today’s young lot have a tendency to follow the quick buck. Many have “team leaders”, informal street managers who quickly rotate anyone willing to don a mask for a few hours. If I’ve learnt anything in my years of street performing, it’s this: the public isn’t stupid But if I’ve learnt anything in my years of street performing, it’s this: the public isn’t stupid. They love individuals and dislike anything that resembles begging. Traditionally, street performers have been artists looking to showcase their talents. Unfortunately, since the economic downturn, many performers just chase change. Art must never be about just getting coins in a pot.So what’s the solution? We need art obviously, or we wouldn’t need the National Gallery itself. And just like the building, we need some standards. Would visitors want to see nursery school scribbles next to a Constable? Likewise, it might not feel natural, but modern street performing needs auditions and licensing. Areas of Covent Garden and the South Bank already do this and it’s working well to raise the bar. The acting profession has benefited from this meritocratic filter for decades.Trafalgar Square is a great space. A global icon, it is the perfect concrete canvas for artistic innovation. Recently it’s got a bit messy and we can’t just blame the pigeons for this. But let’s not ban its performers full stop. Instead we must take a leaf out of the gallery’s books and work harder to spot the fakes.