My aunt, Margaret Engering, who has died aged 89, was an innovative music teacher employing the Suzuki method. She became fascinated in the 1970s by the teaching techniques of the Japanese musician Shinichi Suzuki, who advocated teaching the violin to very young children. Subsequently, she retired early from her career as an architect, enrolled on a teaching course with Suzuki at his studio in Japan, and returned home to set up one of the few Suzuki schools in the UK, in Balham, south London. She stayed in contact with Suzuki until his death in 1998..Her enthusiasm for, and dedication to, the Suzuki method was contagious and she encouraged a great many young violinists during her time as a teacher. Many happy Saturdays were spent with her students at her Nightingale Suzuki group.Margaret was born at home in Heswall, Wirral, daughter of Raymond Shaw, a Liverpool cotton trader, and his wife, Kathy (nee Miller); she was followed two years later by a brother, Alastair. From an early age Margaret played the piano, violin and viola. Educated at Murrayfield school in Heswall, then at Cheltenham Ladies’ college, she was persuaded by her parents to study architecture at Liverpool University and to keep music as her hobby, although she showed great promise.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Margaret Engering trained in Japan withShinichi Suzuki, who advocated children starting violin lessons from the age of threeOn graduating she worked in Warrington, where she met Michael Engering, also an architect. They married in the late 1950s and subsequently settled in Balham. Margaret continued to play her instruments and made many friends in the music world, playing at and attending concerts across London. She regularly performed with the Kingston and District Chamber Music Society, and the Oxford and Cambridge Musical Club, and enjoyed attending events at Glyndebourne and the Cheltenham festival.Margaret was a friend and supporter of Bernard Wheeler Robinson, who held events for musicians at his home, Pigotts, near High Wycombe. Pigotts continues to inspire the many musicians who attend music camps there.Both Margaret and Michael were interested in the welfare of young people with musical talent, and aimed to help individuals to fulfil their ambitions. Michael bought a number of properties during the 1950s and 60s which provided affordable accommodation for composers and musicians attempting to pursue a musical career and in need of financial support.In the last 10 years Margaret became increasingly immobilised after a series of strokes, which prevented her from playing.Michael died in 2001 and Alastair in 2002. Margaret is survived by me and my sister, and by five great-nieces and great-nephews. Margaret was very encouraging to my children, Tom and Alice, hoping they would continue her love of music. They both play the violin and piano.