Speak to some black standups and they’ll say their skin colour is incidental. That, to put it mildly, is not Dane Baptiste’s approach. Baptiste, the first black British nominee for the Edinburgh Comedy awards, aims to be Britain’s own Chris Rock or Dave Chappelle. “It’d be very strange,” he says, “for me not to reference the fact that race exists. It’s hard to ignore.”Having seen his first two solo shows, I wouldn’t have guessed Baptiste harboured world-beating ambitions. They were both excellent: the first garnered that fringe nod for best newcomer, while the second, Reasonable Doubts, showcased a questioning sociopolitical intelligence. But their mild manner and low-key nature barely hinted at Baptiste’s missionary zeal off stage.  I used to laugh at my own jokes. People got annoyed In conversation – at a Soho bar, just before his debut UK tour – the south Londoner is softly but speedily spoken, and intensely engaged with race, power and the way we live now. I don’t recall meeting a less frivolous comedian. To Baptiste, 34, putting the world to rights through comedy is a calling. “If we lived in an egalitarian society,” he says, “and people weren’t polarised by race or gender, and if there was no glass ceiling for me, politically, socially or economically, I wouldn’t need to do comedy for a living.”In fact, until a couple of years ago, Baptiste was stuck in a dead-end office job. “It wasn’t a meritocracy, where what I knew or what I could offer was allowing me to progress.” And so, not without much agonising, he took the leap into comedy. “And now I endeavour to be the act that I would have wanted to see,” he says.That pre-standup office purgatory is the subject of Sunny D, Baptiste’s new BBC3 sitcom, which premieres this spring. The pilot was terrific: a tragicomic portrait of a young, black 21st-century Walter Mitty, whose daydreaming life and sarcastic asides blossom into quickfire animations and sketches. Co-starring Rising Damp’s Don Warrington as Dane’s dad, it aims to combine loser comedy with existential inquiry. “Today,” says Baptiste, “there’s no jobs guaranteed, no one from work will be at your funeral and 42% of marriages end in divorce. So why don’t you do something with your life that you want – and feel fulfilled?”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Off-stage zeal … Dane Baptiste. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianSunny D may be an even better vehicle for Baptiste’s talents than the stage, where some have found his style too downbeat. On the black circuit, where he cut his teeth, “the voice of comedy is somewhere between nightclub DJ and pastor. There’s a lot of showmanship.” Baptiste practises a subtler shtick, he says, a result of him being the son of immigrants from Grenada. “In small Caribbean islands,” he says, “you’re supposed to be repressed about everything.” He adds one other explanation: “People used to get annoyed when I laughed at my own jokes. So I got a complex about it.” And he went deadpan instead.Dane Baptiste at Edinburgh festival review – the personal is political in bracing set It’s reassuring to hear that he finds his own jokes funny because, halfway through this interview, I’m starting to wonder if Baptiste finds life amusing at all. “But I’m laughing inside all the time,” he protests, adding: “I think most comedians, if they are worth anything, especially if they’re observational comedians, are quite serious, because you have to analyse your environment to opine effectively.”In Reasonable Doubts, Baptiste does more than just “opine effectively”. He’s affable, relatable, and makes us laugh – at modern habits of charitable giving; at a dialogue between his virginity and his libido; and at the burden of being ranked 674th on the “Nasblaq index”. He sees a gap in the market for addressing race: “In the UK in the 21st-century, I almost feel I have to discuss race at a foundation level. It hasn’t necessarily been addressed in depth by my predecessors.”Is that a criticism? Baptiste says there were initially tensions between the veteran, Real McCoy wave of black British standups and his generation, which is more interested in challenging the sort of prejudices Baptiste encounters on both the black and the mainstream comedy circuits. But he now appreciates that expecting those veterans to perform, educate and mobilise social activism may have been asking a bit too much. “That’s a lot to do in 20 minutes on Live at the Apollo,” he says.• Reasonable Doubts is at the Stables, Milton Keynes, on 24 March. Then touring until 7 May.