The Life of Pablo – what a great title. It would be arresting on the front cover of a Booker prize winning novel. As the name of a hip-hop album, it proves pop culture evolves. Back in the day, people had to pretend they saw depth in such concept album titles as The Wall, Tommy and Sandinista! By those standards Kanye West deserves the Forward prize for poetry.Kanye West – The Life of Pablo review: 'You can see why his immodesty rubs people up the wrong way' But is his new album title an allusion to Pablo Picasso? It’s a tempting theory. The Picasso family certainly think so: the painter’s great grandson Florian, who is in the music biz himself, has said they are all Kanye fans and are delighted by this tribute from one visionary to another. The precise connection, if any, between The Life of Pablo and the life of Picasso may always be a mystery given the album is, according to the Guardian’s Alexis Petridis, “messy and incoherent … confused and scattered” or in the words of the New York Times, a work of “aesthetic and intellectual bricolage”. Not that easy to follow, then. But if he is really talking about that Pablo, West is not even the first rapper to do so. Jay Z’s Picasso Baby paid a far more explicit homage to the great Spanish artist.So what have rappers got in common with Picasso – and would he have enjoyed their interest? There’s one obvious connection. Hip-hop has no qualms about expressing sexuality. Neither did Picasso. In Picasso Baby, Jay Z starts by wanting a Picasso on his wall but then confesses to less noble desires: “I wanna Rothko, no I wanna brothel, no, I want a wife that fuck me like a prostitute.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch JayZ’s Picasso Baby music videoPicasso would have recognised a fellow spirit there. After all, one of his most revolutionary paintings, Les Demoiselles d’Avignon, is a brothel scene. Later, he created surrealistic images of his wives and mistresses which illustrate Jay Z’s image of domestic bliss. Kim Kardashian’s Selfish: a nail in the coffin for artistic photography? This artist who fixated on women in his life and his work would have envied Kanye West’s marriage to a Kardashian. On the other hand Picasso, who was after all, born in the Victorian age, might not been happy about Kim’s control of her own image. If anyone was going to flaunt his lovers’ buttocks in art it was him – she’d have to stop the selfies. The real connection between Picasso and hip-hop is artistic. Would this painter who died in 1973 have found hip-hop’s radical montage of modern life disturbing? Not at all. He worked on ballets with composers such as Erik Satie and Igor Stravinsky, the creators of modern music. And he himself invented what is perhaps the core of hip-hop as a style. Let’s go back to that New York Times review of The Life of Pablo. It praises West as a genius of “bricolage”. This French word was used by the anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss to mean a kind of creation and thought that makes use of whatever comes to hand. Sampling other artists, reworking old songs, mixing it all up – it’s easy to see how the music of Kanye West fits this bill. You could equally well call it a collage. And it was Picasso who first put bits of the real world into modern art in this way. In his cubist paintings, he sometimes pastes a piece of newspaper on to the canvas or even sticks some chair caning to the picture to bring Parisian cafe life directly into the art gallery. Many other artists took up this idea. Picasso invented collage and used it as hip-hop does – to make art as real as life. Whether or not the title is a reference to him, The Life of Pablo is proof that Picasso lives for our time – not just as an expensive modern master, not as a dead artist of the museums, but a living force in 21st-century culture. The life of Pablo Picasso won’t be ending any time soon.