Ever wanted to stand up in front of a vast crowd of genteel, cultured people – perhaps the packed auditorium of the Olivier at the National Theatre on London’s South Bank? – and call out a series of expletives? Such was the opportunity given last week to members of the cast of the venue’s new production of The Threepenny Opera.Its talented stars – including Rory Kinnear, Haydn Gwynne and Sharon Small – had the chance, courtesy of a freshly abrasive translation from Brecht’s German by Simon Stephens, to use an assortment of what the prim might describe as “playground expletives” throughout the evening, while the grim story of Macheath, the rapist and serial killer, unfolded.Some critics, otherwise beguiled by the mesmeric Kurt Weill score and the charisma of the actors, were upset by the verbal onslaught. But what else would be true to the disturbing intent of the piece? This is not Sondheim, after all, a slice of sleek musical theatre to be wryly imbibed along with the interval gin and tonic. No, this show sets out explicitly and deliberately to attack bourgeois morality and tastes.Fans of opera are thought to be the most conservative crowd, but for years most have happily embraced helpings of extreme violence, laced with sexual shenanigans, in a succession of avant-garde revivals of standards of the repertoire, such as Katie Mitchell’s recent interpretation of Lucia di Lammermoor at Covent Garden. The clue is in the poster, with graphics derived from the famous cover of Anthony Burgess’s A Clockwork Orange Possibly there are directors around who strive simply to shock. Good luck to them. These days it must be hard to find a way to up the stakes. Real offensiveness, however, can probably best be achieved with needless obscenity or the lazy use of blood and guts.But that is not this production. The Threepenny Opera, a tale of low-life treachery and despair from 1920s Berlin which took its cue from the seedy world of John Gay’s The Beggar’s Opera, really needs to jolt the audience from their seats to mean anything at all. The clue is in the poster, with graphics derived from the famous cover of Anthony Burgess’s A Clockwork Orange.Stephens’s new translation is a foil to the well-known plangent melodies. It allows Gwynne, who in her tight red dress has stepped out of an Otto Dix painting, to be utterly horrible. And it lets open-faced Kinnear become an unsettlingly urbane psychopath. If they weren’t being coarse, they would not be doing their job. It has been 200 years, after all, since the sight of a prostitute in a dirty slip and torn stockings has been enough to unnerve the insulated educated classes. And in any case, on Thursday night, it was not the swearing, but the anti-royalist sentiment that had theatre-goers shifting uneasily.So, 13 years after Stewart Lee and Richard Thomas’s playful Jerry Springer the Opera provoked a sustained protest against the venue for its profanity, the National Theatre has gone back to a classic in order to properly upset the organic ice cream tray once again.