I applaud Mark Wigglesworth’s eloquent article (G2, 11 February) calling for a new, innovative approach to resolving the problems bedevilling English National Opera. In my 12 years as an arts editor of the Observer, we covered endless crises involving Britain’s major arts organisations, all of which were settled after widespread and open debate embracing the companies and their boards, the Arts Council, the press, the unions, even the government. Grandees were called in to broker deals and knock sense into recalcitrant heads. By contrast, the lack of proper debate in official circles about the current ENO affair is startling.An online petition, Save English National Opera, has already secured more than 5,000 signatories, many of whom – directors of opera companies, performers, music critics, loyal ENO supporters et al – suggest viable alternatives to the brutal business plan put forward by the company’s CEO, Cressida Pollock, which would leave the company so weakened that it could no longer play any useful part in Britain’s cultural life. To compound the problem, the ENO board has cowered behind her skirts while, extraordinarily, Arts Council England has not come up with a comment of any kind. If the CEO and the board continue to ignore the warnings expressed in the petition and elsewhere, they do so at their peril.They should also listen to the Friends of ENO who, as one of its members points out in the latest Opera, have been “excluded” from any discussions, despite the significant financial support they provide. Above all, the management must pay greater attention its greatest asset, Mark Wigglesworth, who has brought great credit to the company with his magnificent conducting of his first three productions. Lose Wigglesworth and everything is lost. The sooner the existing board is reorganised with new members of proven artistic management skills, the better. John Lucas London• I applaud Mark Wigglesworth’s remarks with regard to ENO’s future. It is encouraging to read the views of the company’s senior artistic leader on how to protect the organisation’s artistic integrity in the light of the Arts Council’s reduced grant and the current financial position. Mr Wigglesworth highlights the distinction between cost and value. I firmly believe that ENO must resist cuts such as the recent proposal to reduce chorus numbers. Such a measure will play into the AC’s apparent agenda to render the organisation incapable of fulfilling its remit and so justify the downsizing of the company and its potential exile from the London Coliseum.Jane LivingstonLondon • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com