Martin Green – accordionist, composer, inventor of oddball electronic instruments – has a small rehearsal space in the grounds of a castle near Edinburgh. It’s in an old stable block now variously occupied by car mechanics and carpenters who make breadboards and deckchairs. It’s handy, he says: he can pop next door to borrow spanners and saws.On the morning of our interview, Green and four other musicians are dressed in matching brown outfits and shuffling around in the drizzle outside the stables. Becky Unthank eyes the horizon with hands in pockets while Portishead’s Adrian Utley stands bolt-upright in shades and Converse which seem a bit at odds with the general hessian garb. They’re posing for a band photo and have hung sheets of brown packing paper around the foliage for reasons that later become apparent. At first glance it’s a cryptic scene: Edwardian workers’ guild? Dustbowl abstinence society? This is the cast of Flit: a new album of songs about migration and a stop-motion animation that premieres at the Edinburgh international festival next week before a UK tour in the autumn.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest EXCLUSIVE: watch the video for the song Strange Sky from Flit We've created a paper world for the band to exist within, fragile and magic and universal and tragic “The packing paper represents movement. Transience. Impermanence. People and things moving around the world,” says Ainslie Henderson, one half of Edinburgh-based animation duo White Robot. “Let’s say that we’ve created a paper world for the band to exist within, simultaneously fragile and magic and universal and tragic.” He glances sideways at me. “Does that sound plausible?”At the heart of the project is Green: his concept, his choice of musicians, his brooding, glitchy sound design permeating the songs. The “bedrock and common language” of the album, as he calls it, is synth-heavy textures full of thrumming bass drones and claustrophobic bleeps that he developed in “dark tonal jams” at Utley’s studio in Bristol. The pervading sound is warped and clattery, scarred and lush like a burned-out landscape. But those Bristol sessions were only the beginning. Flit is the work of many voices – you’d be hard-put to find an album crafted through more layers of collaboration. For Green, sharing out the authorship seemed the only way to tell the fragmented experiences of people forced into exile.It started with his own family. “I was recording my 88-year-old gran talking about her life,” he explains while wolfing down a steak pie in the brief hiatus between photoshoot and afternoon rehearsal. “The idea was to save her stories for my kids, but I ended up finding out a whole lot during those conversations. And her stories seemed so operatic.”Green’s family were Jewish refugees who fled Austria in the 1930s. His great-grandfather left first, ending up in a Jewish ghetto in Shanghai, then a few years later his grandmother went to London with her mother. “At the end of the war my grandad was still in Shanghai and had met somebody else, but eventually he made his way to London and fell back into my great granny’s arms,” he says. That story became a galling, tender song called Roll Away.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Ears and eyes’ … Adam Holmes, Adrian Utley, Will Anderson, Martin Green and Becky Unthank. Photograph: Mike GuestGreen started to record other stories. A man of Portuguese descent whose father fled from Goa. A woman who grew up in East Germany and watched the wall come down as a child. Members of his wife Inge Thomson’s family talking about the exodus from Shetland when there wasn’t enough food on the islands. None of these stories are directly quoted on the album: instead Green sent them to a team songwriters – Anaïs Mitchell, Karine Polwart, Aidan Moffat and Sandy Wright – who turned testimonials into verse and worked his musical bedrock into tunes. When the songs were ready, Green handed them over to singers Becky Unthank, Adam Holmes and John Smith to give them voice.All that’s just the album, which is only one element of the live show. The other half is stop-motion/digital animation and 3D mapping – essentially videos projected on to various non-flat surfaces around the musicians – by White Robot. Green recalls first being drawn to their work because of its “humanity and DIY gorgeousness”, particularly in their Bafta-winning short film The Making of Longbird.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Martin Green, Ainslie Henderson and Will Anderson discuss Flit in a trailer for Edinburgh“It’s not only about bringing inanimate objects to life,” he says. “I mean, Will and Ainslie could make you fall in love with this fork if they wanted to” – he brandishes the utensil at them – “but I also liked that their work refers to its own creation. It makes the audience more aware of the graft and marvel that goes in, and it adds to the poignancy.”  It's like playing in the middle of a painting In return, the animators recognised a “fellow messy experimenter” in Green. “We found an online clip of Martin building his Sporkatron 4000,” Henderson says, referring to an instrument/midi-controller made of forks and spoons that has become a fixture of gigs with Green’s regular trio Lau. “We could definitely relate to his bash-things-together spirit.” White Robot have created a humble, whimsical paper world from which characters can be ripped and crumpled and transplanted. Henderson describes finding a way to depict the moment when Green’s grandmother left her grandparents in Austria because they were too old to travel (they would end up in a death camp). That memory is told, though not explicitly, in a song called Smallest Plant while on-screen figures are physically torn from their surroundings.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Martin Green with his Sporkatron 4000 at 2014’s End of the Road festival. Photograph: Andy Sheppard/Redferns via Getty ImagesLunch is over and the band is heading back to the stables to rehearse in the little room full of wired-up saws and sample-triggering hosepipes, but before he goes, Green sits back down with a perturbed expression. “Tell me something,” he ventures. “People expect a lot of visual stimulation to keep them entertained these days, and part of me worries that audiences find it boring going to a gig without any visual, you know, pizzazz.” It’s a conundrum he finds himself mulling over a lot, because while folk music is supposed to be the great leveller, free from the kind of image prerogatives that drives much of the music industry, Green is the first to admit that he’s drawn to pretty things. In many ways Flit is a natural step in his ongoing pursuit to expand the aesthetic parameters of the genre. His trio with Kris Drever and Aidan O’Rourke, Lau, haven’t just shaken up the sound of a traditional jigs-and-reels set list — they’ve also upped the look of their shows from three lads wielding folk instruments to a whole handsome stage set with bespoke lighting and backlit string quartets.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lau on stage in 2013. Photograph: Rob Ball/WireImage“And yet,” Green runs a hand anxiously through his hair, “hearing someone playing solo piano, badly lit, through a crappy PA, that is still potentially life-changing. And the day that is not enough because we’ve come to rely on all this visual bling, that’s when we lose the ability to just listen.” So why did he feel the songs and stories of Flit weren’t enough on their own? “You mean why am I adding to the problem?” he shrugs. “Because I find it exciting. Because I’ve always been about ears, and now I can be about eyes too. I’ve spent more than 20 years thinking about pure music, abstract music, and now my creative world has exploded into multidimensional technicolour.” He gets up and makes for the door. “Actually it’s breathtaking. It’s like playing in the middle of a painting.”Flit is at the Edinburgh international festival, 10-11 August, then touring the UK in the autumn 