Happy Valley has the best pre-titles scenes on TV. It’s 9.01pm: HV fans are just settling in, and some of the audience are Holby City viewers who left the TV on by mistake. Right after the Previously … montage, we’re in. Happy Valley creator Sally Wainwright uses the “cold open” to demand hush with her boldest, purest drama.Last week it was Sgt Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) in therapy. Now she’s asking the questions, for five stark minutes in the living room of Leonie, one of the prostitutes we met in episode one. Catherine had warned them there was a killer on the loose, and had seen unstable loner Sean drive past in his van. Leonie’s account of being raped by a customer is searingly well performed by Hebe Beardsall, and full of the touches that make Happy Valley’s horrors so bracingly believable. Leonie never makes eye contact, pouring out her ordeal as a long list (“and … and … and …”). Catherine writes it down on an opened-out fag packet – the only paper in the flat – and tolerates the interruptions of Leonie’s well-meaning friend Annette (Keeley Forsyth). Other writers might take Annette out, but she’s another imperfect grain of realism, so Wainwright leaves her in.Back at the nick – after the opening titles – Catherine lets rip at the two WPCs who answered the initial call and did the bare minimum to help. Now, we see something else that’s rare in TV drama: Proper Shouting, as Catherine loses it with the pair. We also see Happy Valley’s furious politics about our dented moral compasses, in one of the constables’ explanation for her behaviour: “We were always told to take everything they [prostitutes] said with a pinch of salt.”Meanwhile, Sean is arrested. Leonie got his registration and he’s got nylon rope and beer bottles in his van.‘They’re animals … they shouldn’t be allowed to breathe’Remember Daryl, the farmer’s son whose sheep was stolen in episode one? He’s back … the rough lads he reported to the police gang up on him as he’s buying groceries: he makes it to his car, takes out a hammer and fights back, which earns him a visit at home by Ann and Shafiq. Retrieving the hammer, Ann thinks nothing of the rope in the car boot. At the station, Daryl is extremely reluctant to have his DNA swabbed.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hairy moments ... will murderous detective John get found out? Photograph: Ben Blackall/BBC/Red ProductionsHaving been given a heavy hint about the serial killer’s identity, we’re back to Sean, who’s barely bothered about being accused of rape – “I paid her, she’s a prostitute,” he smugly spits – but is very bothered about then being accused of four murders. John, the detective who killed one of the four victims, watches without showing emotion. John has a hairy moment with Superintendent Shepherd: his name’s been found on Vicky Fleming’s phone. John spins a cover story, though you’d think a breakdown of Vicky’s phone calls must arrive any minute. Anyway, his bigger concern is that Amanda has changed the locks and left his stuff on the front drive. Our bigger concern is that Amanda is played by Julie Hesmondhalgh, who is one of the best TV actors in the UK but still hasn’t had much to do.‘It never goes away, does it? He’ll never go away’When Catherine returns from her visit to Leonie, there’s a reminder of her central predicament. She’s lost her daughter – a bereavement that her grandson Ryan is a constant reminder of. His birthday’s hard, and it’s tomorrow. There’s a gift on the doorstep and a tender moment when Clare reminds her sister how they get through this every year: “Big smiles.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tender moment ... Catherine and Clare discuss Ryan’s birthday. Photograph: Ben Blackall/BBC/Red ProductionsBig smiles aren’t enough. The present, a fantastic Scalextric set, has a card with it saying “Love from Dad”. Frances’ plan works: Catherine angrily confiscates the gift and, later on over dinner, is too weary to give Ryan the full speech necessary when he repeats what Frances has fed him about forgiving his dad. Contrast that to the scene where one of the errant WPCs offers her resignation: Catherine recognises that her remorse means there’s hope for her yet, and talks her round with maternal tenderness. She has to be a mother to almost everyone she knows, but the person who needs it most – Ryan – is the one she struggles with. By the end of the episode, Ryan is following Frances’ suggestion and secretly writing Tommy a letter.‘Do you really believe they could do that?’Season two has done a magnificent job of coping with the main antagonist essentially being unavailable. But that starts to feel like a stretch in this week’s final scene, which basically repeats last week’s: Frances goes to prison to visit Tommy, who swats away her plans to talk Ryan round and tells her to kill Catherine instead. It’s another fearsome performance from James Norton, bringing out Tommy’s one great talent: pinpointing weakness. The way he correctly concludes that Sean isn’t the killer just by seeing his face on TV is telling, and his use of the line “If our two hearts do beat as one, and I like to think that they do” (which must be borrowed from Frances herself or god knows where) is lovely writing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Seen it all before? The final scene is essentially a straight repeat of last week’s. Photograph: Ben Blackall/BBC/Red ProductionsThe problem is that to give Norton another scene where he asserts his power and convinces Frances to kill, she has to express significant doubt. As soon as she questions his bananas claim that Catherine’s become a serial murderer, she’s no longer in that creepily eroticised fugue that’s made it plausible that she would follow Tommy’s awful bidding. She’s … sane, and she can’t be that. I wonder if it’s the last time she, and perhaps we, will see Tommy.We like MikeA brief round of applause for minor character Mike (Rick Warden), Catherine’s boss, who isn’t as dense and insensitive as she thinks he is. A really nice moment where she asks for his help finding Tommy’s accomplice and explains, unnecessarily, that Ryan’s birthday is traumatic for her. “I know. I know. I do know.”And the Happy Valley Bloodstained Police Badge goes to …Those of you who called the “Vicky was the mistress who ruined Neil’s life” twist weeks ago. Fair play – although the turbo version, where he turns out to be the serial killer as well, is even more of a long shot now.While we’re theorising … How exactly is Frances going to approach the task of murdering Catherine? Frances surely doesn’t have a gun, and hand-to-hand combat is definitely out: Frances is built like a mayfly, and even Tommy’s record against Catherine on that front is only one out of two (although admittedly he did have septicaemia the second time). She doesn’t appear to have a car ... and of course she can’t do anything that would hurt Ryan. Tricky one. Thoughts?