It is, of course, entirely down to Joe Corré how he chooses to spend his own money, and mark the 40th anniversary of punk. Set fire to £5m worth of punk memorabilia in response to the way the mainstream has “co-opted” punk rock since its heyday? Admittedly it’s all a bit 1994 – when chart-topping subversives the KLF set light to a million quid – but why not? Burning can be therapeutic.Malcolm McLaren's son to burn £5m of punk memorabilia There is certainly irony evident in a complaint about the co-opting of punk coming from the son of Malcolm McLaren and Vivienne Westwood, two people who did more than anyone to set that process on its path. Though it must be said that the event Corré is protesting looks does look cheesy: Punk London, as supported by Boris Johnson, Live Nation and the National Lottery. (If nothing else, original punk had great typography, a fact that seems to have escaped the Punk London website.) But Corré’s comment that “rather than a movement for change, punk has become like a fucking museum piece or a tribute act” is at least 30 years behind the times.Anarchy in the UK: punk's early years Here are some alternative suggestions for ways Corré could be rid of £5m worth of assorted knickknacks from mum and dad and claw back some street cred in the process. That said, I’m not against the notion of burning all this elitist “punk” crap. Indeed, I rather think there is something rather splendid in its inchoate rebellion. Remember, baby punks: all property is theft.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Instead of setting light to it, he could send his mum’s clothing to the “Jungle” camp in Calais – what could be more punk rock then a camp full of refugees dressed in vintage punk gear, especially those T-shirts that have “no future” emblazoned on them?One suspects that £5m is a grossly inflated figure. We’re not talking about a lock of John Lennon’s hair here, or Kurt Cobain’s cardigan, or Elvis Presley’s stage costumes. We’re talking a load of overpriced fashionista trappings that have little to do with the original antagonistic spirit of punk rock. With this in mind, perhaps Corré could use the money to fund research into the way rock’n’roll mythology has always been littered with flamboyant and meaningless gestures from spoiled rich kids. The problem with DIY is that, by its nature, it should not be supported by outside funding – so that scotches the idea of Corré putting on a series of feminist punk rock concerts around the country. But perhaps he could argue to himself that such support would fit the true punk ethos, in not giving a bollocks what others think. He could fund a reprint of the entire run of Sniffin’ Glue, the working class bloke’s take on punk in 1976. Everyone talks about it in 2016, very few have read it.Snapshots: the covers of Punk magazine He could fund a reprint of the entire run of Punk Magazine, the sarcastic New York bloke’s take on punk in 1976. Punk was not all Westwood party frocks and Flogging a Dead Horse, no matter what the McLarens wanted us to believe.He could team up with Banksy and Jamie Reid and put on a series of exhibitions around punk in 2016 – a safety-pinned Boris, a Smiths-loving Cameron – that are affordable to the average punter.He could throw one hell of a party: not exclusionary but inclusive.As one Guardian reader suggested, he could auction the memorabilia and use the funds for charity – or to help up-and-coming punk acts: “Destroying it seems like a strop of a frankly exceedingly well-off, white, middle-aged man; ironic as his demographic is the literal embodiment of the establishment.”He could use the money to buy one ferociously large pram and amuse himself for the rest of his life by throwing the rest of his toys out of it.Help us finish off our list by posting your own suggestions below.