In five wordsTraditional arts and heritage hubSound of the cityEven with the daily hustle and bustle of city life in Muscat, Omanis are steeped in traditional Arabic heritage and faith. Five times a day the beautiful sounds of the call of prayer are displayed throughout the city in order to remind locals to take heed and find a mosque or quiet area to pray. The sound of the call of prayer is a part of everyday life in Oman.Everyone’s tuning into …   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Omanis love sports, soccer in particular. On any particular day in Muscat, you can catch an Omantel Professional League match being shown on the big screens across town. Best venue      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Royal Opera House, Muscat at nightThe Royal Opera House Muscat is the top venue in the city to see live events and concerts. It is located in the heart of Muscat near Qurum beach. It offers a variety of cultural programs and performances to display a global appeal including upcoming shows by Salif Keita, the golden voice of Africa and the Silk Road Ornina theatrical dance.Who’s top of the playlist?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you are looking for a local band to rock out to in Muscat, then the T-Band is the group for you. You can catch them playing at the top spot to party, Route 66 Oman at Qurum Resort. They recently won the Battle of Bands to open for the Stereophonics, who recently performed in Muscat at the Shangri-La Barr Al Jissah Resort. Best local artistAcclaimed Omani artist Alia Al Farsi notes how she is often inspired by her Omani home in her artwork. She was recently featured in an amazing exhibition entitled Strings of Love which showcased art, literature and calligraphy combined in Geneva. She is a global arts force to be reckoned with, but never forgetting her home of Muscat, Oman in the process.Best cultural Instagram accountFerdz Alvarez is a Filipino camera enthusiast, who resides in Muscat, Oman as a freelance photographer. Upon moving to Oman, Ferdz saw how rich their culture is and loved the kindness of Omanis, so he decided it was his duty to document it in his images. Ferdz’s photos show the true essence of Muscat, from Omani women shopping in the mall to amazing black and white portraits of men sitting on the lawn in front of Qurum Beach.What’s the big talking point?The big talking point at the moment in Muscat and across Oman is the budget deficit for 2016. Austerity is of great concern to both nationals and expats, as Oman is taking huge leaps to get back to normal financially. Measures that have been taken include the recent announcement of rising gas prices as the government decided to deregulate the prices of petrol and diesel fuels in the oil-dependent country.What does Muscat do better than anywhere else?Frankincense. The process of harvesting frankincense is unique to the region. It needs an expert to make incisions in the trees with a sharp instrument known as the Al Manqaf and needs to be cut twice at two separate locations, with a time difference of about 14 days between the first and second cut. The trade is generally handed down among Omani families. Comedy gold   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Titan Events is the go to source for comedy in Muscat whilst Joseph Sims is the founder of the Oman Comedy Central Show. With his impressive skills, it is no wonder why people keep coming back for more laughs. Moment in history   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In 2010 Oman hosted the World Fireworks Competition, one of the biggest fireworks competitions in the world. It was hosted over three weekends and featured six fireworks companies. Close to one million viewers witnessed the display. French company Lacroix Ruggieri ultimately won the competition.From Me      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nicole BrewerNicole is a travel blogger and educator who is currently based in Oman. You can follow her globetrotting adventures throughout the region at www.iluv2globetrot.com.Five to follow?Oman TourismMuscat MutteringsFaces MagazineOmanKnowledge OmanScent Orient