“We were devastated,” says Yaron Lifschitz, artistic director of the Australian circus ensemble Circa. He is talking about the company’s Melbourne festival performance of Opus, a daring blend of Shostakovich and circus. What could possibly have gone wrong for the company who, over the past decade, have redefined the language of circus with their critically acclaimed box-office hits? The 2,500-seat venue was packed and the audience clapped at almost every trick. But that’s the problem. “We consider a clap where we don’t want one a form of failure,” explains Lifschitz mournfully.Since 2004, Lifschitz’s ensemble – now numbering around 20 – have rescued circus from the arena of mere spectacle and expanded its possibilities as an artform, borrowing from music, poetry, theatre, visual arts and architecture. In How Like an Angel, acrobats swooped through the interiors of ancient English cathedrals; in The Return, performed in London earlier this year as Europe’s refugee crisis gathered pace, Monteverdi’s Baroque opera Il Ritorno d’Ulisse in Patria was the jumping-off point for a show in which acrobatics became an expression of displacement, endless wandering and grief.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A place where the living and the dead can meet’ … Depart. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian Meaning in most of our work is created out of the composition. If a trick gets too good it will overwhelm the emotionYaron Lifschitz Most circus relies upon the wow factor of the perfectly executed, apparently impossible physical trick. Lifschitz is more interested in how a trick might be framed – what comes before or after it, how tension and texture are created, and what meaning and emotion might be conveyed. “Circus has the problem of double focus,” he explains. “People are always watching the thing and the virtuosity of the thing at the same time. You are always having to adjust the pitch, weigh up how much stuff to put in a particular place so as not overwhelm the audience with its own admiration and applause.” Lifschitz argues that great circus is not reliant on the virtuosity of the trick for its effectiveness – or indeed the number of tricks you can stuff into a single evening. “At the end of the day there is an expressive limit to what you can do in any given form. At some point you get to the inherent contradiction that what we are actually doing is a bunch of virtuoso skills that don’t inherently carry a great deal of meaning inside themselves. The meaning in most of our work is created out of the composition and arrangement. If the trick gets too good it will overwhelm the structural integrity and the emotion. So you have to really balance how many great tricks you do and how you frame them so they can speak and have their own emotional weight and find their right wave length.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rehearsals for Depart by Circa in Tower Hamlets Cemetery Park. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThat might mean less clapping from the audience, but it can lead to a far richer experience. “If anyone claps in this show – other than at the end – it will be a disaster,” says Lifschitz of the company’s latest piece, Depart, made in collaboration with the National Centre for Circus Arts, whose graduating students form part of the ensemble. Depart is being performed in Tower Hamlets Cemetery Park at dusk as part of the London international festival of theatre (Lift).  Circus can’t help but be an aspirational hymn to the living, an intense form of celebrating being alive “It’s a fabulous environment in which to play,” says Lifschitz, pointing to the mass of trees and untamed vines that spread across tottering gravestones, and the twisting fairytale paths that lure you into dark places. Wherever you walk here, you are walking over history. It is a place where the living and the dead can meet together. “The thing that excites me about the site is exploring what circus can do with its possibilities and how the artform can embrace them. I always enjoy the opportunity to think about what circus can do that it doesn’t normally do. As soon as I saw this place, I knew it spoke our language.” The show takes its inspiration from the Orpheus and Eurydice myth, and there have been considerable logistical challenges in creating a full-scale outdoor circus promenade performance, particularly when the showery English summer has turned the cemetery into a muddy, slippery environment, not ideal for circus. On the day we meet, Lifschitz is busy rethinking the final sequence in case the heavens open. “We can’t do the same intensity of acrobatics in the rain or wet and maybe we will just need to taper it down and leave the audience with a beautiful quiet close, which is a perfectly good dramaturgical option,” he says, “but whether it will be satisfying for those expecting acrobatic fireworks is another matter. We would be happy with that, but in circus such is the hunger for the trick and instant gratification – the fix – it becomes a bit like a drug.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A fabulous environment in which to play’ … Depart. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThere are other challenges, too. As Lifschitz says: “Circus can’t help but be an aspirational hymn to the living, an intense form of celebrating being alive. Circus bodies are stubbornly corporeal. They are clearly there and clearly intensely alive. It is why as an audience we like them so much. But it means that you can’t go round pretending that they are unhealthy or dead.”At the dress rehearsal I saw, it’s clear that they do have a ghostly presence. Pale young women stand silently like a row of alabaster angels who suddenly break into jagged movement; a wistful figure is glimpsed in the distance, eternally turning on a Cyr wheel; a pair of acrobats appear to have sprouted out of a tree stump; aerialists hang from the trees as if suspended between heaven and hell. There is something uncanny about our encounters with them as we wander down paths as if in search of ourselves, occasionally catching a glimpse of an apparition out of the corner of our eye or hearing distant singing. Towards the end dark figures march in a seemingly endless procession, like souls emerging from the underworld.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘A fabulous environment in which to play’ … Tower Hamlets Cemetery Park. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianLifschitz has always resisted narrative. “I was really relieved years ago to hear the choreographer William Forsythe say he lacked a narrative gene. I think I do too. The world just doesn’t reveal itself to me through story.” Depart may be inspired by a myth familiar to most people, but Lifschitz is not in the business of storytelling in any traditional sense.“I imagine this piece as a series of reflections in a cut-glass chandelier. You see many images of the same thing. Every element, from the video work to the choreography to the circus, is all connected to a very small set of images: there are themes of turning around or walking towards, of looking for something, or losing something and being stuck. Many little clue moments are stitched throughout the work. It’s textured in such a way that creates the feeling of walking through a series of elusive memories and impressions. It’s not tragic, in fact it’s strangely joyous, and I really like the fact that it works like a dream and it’s ephemeral, like existence itself.”He quotes the poet and translator Anne Carson: “Existence will not stop until it gets to beauty and then there follow all the consequences that lead to the end.’” He smiles. “It’s the hunger for the beautiful moment that fuels a project like Depart.”Depart is at Tower Hamlets Cemetery Park from 16 to 26 June as part of the London international festival of theatre (Lift) and Spitalfields Music summer festival