A hero used to be a perfect combination of properties we strive for: beauty, strength, courage, intellect. Those days are over. I don’t know if it’s Freud’s fault or Luther’s, but for some reason perfect people don’t inspire writers any more. They frustrate us. We don’t want to be motivated to become better people. We want to be reassured that we are OK as we are.This is why we love hateful characters in literature. Because the more unlike us they are in their behaviour, the better we feel about the way we are. And the more we can forgive them. And in the unlikely event that we share their hateful characteristics, we can still forgive ourselves. Because then we know that we are not alone in our flaws.I am aware that the narrator of my first novel, Superabundance, is not exactly a good person. But I do hope he is still lovable. Because I know there are some flaws I share with him.Here are 10 novels featuring hateful characters I love, in order of publication:1. Les Liaisons Dangereuses by Pierre Choderlos de LaclosThe Vicomte de Valmont, played by John Malkovich in the hit 1988 film version of this scandalous 18th-century novel, is an impressive example of elegance being the only acceptable excuse for complete lack of character. At the end of his ruthless game of seducing women in order to publicly shame them, he dies in a duel, hopelessly in love with one of the women he destroyed. And we forgive him. 2. The Demons by Fyodor DostoevskyNikolai is rich, good-looking and of exquisite manners. And evil. His curiosity and his ability to influence others combine to make him a cold, merciless observer of his manipulations and their results. Eventually, he commits suicide by hanging, just like the young girl whom he made think he was in love with – before insulting and leaving her. It is never revealed whether he intended to hurt her or simply didn’t know what he was doing – or if he killed himself out of guilt or curiosity. It doesn’t really matter. Because either way, he remains an erratic observer of an obscure world, torn between indifference and impulse. A child, basically. Confused and lonely.The top 10 books of war reportage 3. The Secret Agent by Joseph ConradThey call him the professor, and he is the perfect anarchist. Carrying enough explosives under his clothing to annihilate any block he walks by, the self-developed rubber ball detonator sitting resting in his hand at all times, he is safe from the police. However, he has two problems. One: the time lag between ignition and explosion, a technical flaw he is working to improve, is a horrifying 20 seconds. Two: he is afraid; afraid that the busy, antlike crowd around him, which he constantly threatens to attack, might be insensible to fear.4. Seelandschaft mit Pocahontas by Arno SchmidtThe story of two friends meeting two women in a hotel by a lake in postwar Germany almost saw Schmidt jailed: he was sued for blasphemy and for writing over-explicit erotica. But underneath this avant-garde language experiment from the 1950s lies a deeply touching love story. Surprised at having survived the slaughter and destruction of the second world war, the narrator simply lacks genuine feelings. Everything cold and disrespectful he says about the woman he uses for physical satisfaction and entertainment is atoned for by the profound sadness he feels when they part.5. Family Sayings by Natalia GinzburgGiuseppe Levi is a professor of anatomy in Turin, and he loves criticising the people around him. The father of the narrator in Ginzburg’s biography of a family and their era – spanning the rise of fascism and the Nazi era – is famous for his outbreaks of anger. He considers anyone who doesn’t share his passions or tastes to be stupid. Yet in his sayings – little mantras that form the structure of the book – he shows the same desire for self-reassurance that all family members share. It is what we say that makes us believe we exist. And it is what we will be remembered for, too.6. End Zone by Don DeLilloIn DeLillo’s absurd and beautiful second novel, a college football team somewhere in Texas is dissolving over problems of language and meaning. As things get more and more difficult to understand, Creed, the head coach, whose godlike authority is undisputed, retreats to a basement room. From here, he deprives his desperate players of what they need most: instructions. In one of the rare appearances he makes, towards the end of the book, it becomes clear that it is not indifference that causes his behaviour. He truly cares for his players. And he is following a plan; but only he knows what it is. 7. Whatever by Michel HouellebecqThe narrator in Houellebecq’s first novel has no respect for women whatsoever. Yet he is obsessed with their bodies. To him, females are objects that are available in exchange for money. He is one of the earlier literary victims of consumerism and his story to me is one of the most poetic expressions of the complete emptiness following the act of purchase. But his misogyny is too cold, too perfect to be true. What is only a vague suspicion at the beginning of the novel becomes clear towards the end: his hatred is in fact just disappointment for being rejected. And his chief characteristic is one that is easy for most human beings to relate to: sadness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Strangely sympathetic ... Bob Hoskins as Adolf Verloc in the film version of Joseph Conrad’s The Secret Agent Photograph: Moviestore Collection/REX8. Lethargy by Wojciech KuczokYoung medical student Adam is in love with Sweetie, a young thug from the dangerous neighbourhoods of the city where Adam studies. The problem: Sweetie is a brutal criminal who hates homosexuals. Adam still manages to get his attention and somehow even succeeds in enticing him into his first homoerotic experience. But Adam’s punishment for allowing Sweetie to admit to his most secret longing is brutal and merciless. Which makes Sweetie even sweeter, in a sad and perverse way: he is desperate, for his world denies him his feelings. 9. The Enterprise by Matthias NawratA father and his two kids living in a Black Forest scrapyard make a living scavenging metal from deserted factories. This post-industrial dystopia novel is narrated in the naive, artistic language of the 12-year-old daughter. And she is completely happy, because she believes her father’s stories about the nature of work. Heroic tales of brave fighters doing what has to be done to maximize profits for the enterprise. When her little brother loses an arm in an old machine, they get two days off. It is difficult to blame the father, however. Because he, too, believes in his capitalist lies.10. The Bone Fire by György DragománAn old woman comes to a boarding school to pick up a girl whose parents were killed in a car crash. It is the grandmother the girl’s mother never mentioned. Why she comes now, why she was denied access to her grandchild all these years, is revealed very slowly. We immediately feel the tension inside the grandmother, however, who still grieves over the alienation from her daughter, but wants to overcome it by taking care of the grandchild. Set in post-Ceausescu Romania, the grandmother and how she treats the little girl reflect the the country: a land with an evil past is about to change for the better. But every now and then, things are tipped back into hatred.• Heinz Helle’s debut novel Superabundance is published by Serpent’s Tail, priced £11.99. It is available from the Guardian bookshop for £9.59.