 Thank you, everybody. Great honor. Great honor, thank you. This is a wonderful day. On a Saturday morning yet. Isn’t that nice? Thank you, all. And we’re going to have an incredible convention. It’s really going well. We’re going to have an incredible convention. And we’re going to get things solved, and we’re going to do lots of wonderful things for our country, most importantly.What you’re doing with repetition here is interesting. I assume it’s a Gertrude Stein homage? But what I’m already seeing is relying on some adjectives as a crutch: “great”, “incredible”, “wonderful”, etc. Maybe try switching it up with more interesting word choices: sumptuous, transmundane, peerless? Any of those resonating?  White guy in your MFA: 'I nobly pursue something purer than wealth – truth itself'  So I’m here today to introduce the man who will be my partner in this campaign, and the White House, to fix our rigged system – we are in a rigged, rigged system – and to make America safe again and to make America great again. “Partner in crime” is a pretty played-out idiom. And, again, I’m sorry, but we’re seeing a lot of similar sentence structure. I admire your attempt to disrupt the traditional notion of sentences only having one or, at most two dependent clauses, but unfortunately your message gets a little muddled. We also need to bring back in this country – because we see what happened – our industry, our manufacturing, our jobs. They’ve been taken away, like we’re babies. Taken away. And we’re going to bring them back.Mmm. I get it. A postmodern nod with fragmentation and paradox. Clever. But the phrase, “They’ve been taken away, like we’re babies” – does that simile make sense to you? Do people take away babies’ jobs or manufacturing? Clarify.Ink different: Donald Trump gets drawn and quartered for Comic-Con  Indiana governor Mike Pence was my first choice. I’ve admired the work he’s done, especially in the state of Indiana. And I’m going to go over some of those accomplishments in just a minute. First choice for what? Interesting technique, leaving the reader to fill in the blank with their own thoughts. Actually quite imaginative. Is he your first choice for business partner? Your lover? The ambiguity makes the sentiment richer. Also, good foreshadowing. This was – in the history of the Republican party, history, with 17 people running, you have to understand, other people ran against one, two and three. There were 17. We got – I say we, because I’m the messenger, I’m a messenger – I’m doing a good job, but I’m a messenger – we got almost 14m votes. That’s more than any other person in the history of the Republican party in the primary system running for president.Trump and Me by Mark Singer review – a lot of laughs but then horror I have to take back what I said above – the Gertrude Stein homage is coming across a little too strong here. You don’t need to repeat that there were 17 people: TRUST that the reader will believe you. Same goes for this notion that you’re a “messenger” (is this a Jesus metaphor?) But they displayed it. It was on display, where we had this group of people, who – many of whom I’ve known, and I won’t say, because for party unity, I’ll say they’re wonderful people, OK? Never Trump, they said, never Trump, never Trump. Oh, we’re going to win. They got crushed. And they got crushed immediately, because people want what we’re saying to happen. Ah, I get it now. The repetition here, of the “Never Trump” is more James Joyce than Gertrude Stein. But still, who is “they”? Be more judicious with your linking of subject and pronoun. Also, less passive voice please.  They’re tired of a country that has horrible trade deals, that has no borders, that has taxes that are through the roof, highest taxed nation just about in the world, that has regulations that don’t allow you to start a business and destroy your business if you do start – and, by the way, speaking of destroying businesses, we’re going to take care of the miners and we’re going to take care of the steelworkers. We’re going to put them back to work. Be careful to check for parallel structure when you use a list this long. “Through the roof” is a first thought idiom – can you come up with a more compelling phrase? And, once again, we’ve lost track of your pronouns. Who are the “they” and who are the “we”? Perhaps you’re creating an artistic work that can be read in multiple ways. If this was intentional, this piece is more poetry than prose.  You know, it’s very interesting. We’re building – we’re building – I won the – which is pretty amazing with the Obama administration, but I won the right to have the old post office building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right near the White House, and it’s an amazing – probably the best location, one of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA, General Services. And I really like what’s happened. Don’t tell the reader something is interesting: show us! You add the dependent clause about something (subject never specified) being “amazing” (see my earlier note about more interesting adjectives) too early in the sentence. And while you tell us it’s the “best location”, you don’t really set the scene for us. Could you add more sensory description? I want to smell the cherry blossoms and feel the heat radiating from the Washington concrete. You can use that if you want.  We’re going to have an opening very soon. Ivanka and Eric and Don did a fantastic job on it. But I thought the other day, I was going over the numbers, we’re under-budget and about a year – actually more than a year – we’re a year ahead of schedule, and we’re under-budget substantially. And the quality of the work is even better than we originally were going to do. Introducing three new characters this late in the narrative is risky: can you tell us more about “Ivanka”, “Eric” and “Don”? Are they lovers? Tell us this story instead of whatever this thing you’re under-budget for is. What even is it? You never say. Cut this whole section.  So with that, I would like to introduce a man who I truly believe will be outstanding in every way and will be the next vice-president of the United States, Governor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.This conclusion doesn’t really make sense given the rest of the piece. I’m happy to read a second draft if you revise and get it to me before workshop next week.