Inspiring role models are important and I was lucky enough to have one as a godmother. The traveller, journalist and biographer Lesley Blanch, who died in the south of France aged 103, was as good as they get. Lesley and my mother, Gael Elton Mayo, met in New York in 1951 through their Russian husbands. After Gael died of cancer in 1992, Lesley became home from home. A jungly tunnel wound up to the front door of her small, pink villa overlooking the Mediterranean bay of Garavan, on the French border with Italy.  A small figure radiating energy and the scent of jasmine, she remained alert and open-minded. I will never forget how she peered, fascinated, at my laptop asking about websites. “I want one!” she exclaimed, blue eyes sparkling. Her website went live in 2006, the year before she died.  Everything about Lesley was unconventional and romantic: her writing, her tumultuous love life, her sartorial glamour and mischievous humour. She was erudite without being stuffy or pompous. Fearless and headstrong, she could be infuriating and grandiose. An internationalist, she opened windows on the world and was passionate about all things Russian and oriental. I treasure Alexander Pushkin’s The Golden Cockerel and Other Stories, adapted by James Reeves, which she gave to me as a child. To be with her was to enter many different worlds. During a visit in 2001, Lesley was fretting about her introduction to a reprint of Isabelle Eberhardt’s Journals. I deciphered her graceful writing and typed it up on my laptop. This led to my helping with her memoirs. But Lesley died before we could finish our work. I had promised that I would get her book published. Daunted but undeterred, in between editing jobs for publishers, I knitted together fragments of reminiscences written at different times, to capture the essence of her rich and rewarding life.  What kind of reputation and lasting achievements are left after we die? In our I-want-it-now society, do dead authors and their lives even matter? We do not exist without context and history. Lesley turned her back on Edwardian suburbia, becoming a working woman at a time when few women had careers. We still live in a male-dominated culture, so her success is important.  I reread Lesley’s most enduring works: The Sabres of Paradise: Conquest and Vengeance in the Caucasus, The Wilder Shores of Love – about four 19th-century women who travelled East – and Journey Into the Mind’s Eye: Fragments of an Autobiography. I was struck by how prescient she was, attempting to bridge the west and east. Her dramatic storytelling brings alive those places that obsessed her: Russia, the Sahara, Turkey, Afghanistan.   Editing Lesley’s memoirs was frustrating. She had been on the frontline of numerous cultural innovations. Much had died with her, untold. During my last visit, she began to open up about the family friend only ever referred to as “the Traveller”. (He seduced her on the Train Bleu.) It turned out he was Theodore Komisarjevsky. Chiefly remembered for his staging of Chekhov, and a season of scandalous productions at Stratford – Lesley designed costumes for two of them – he brought director’s theatre to Britain. She left me hanging with the words: “Peggy Ashcroft took him off me.” Komisarjevsky became a talismanic figure; his romantic hold never lessened.  Lesley’s subsequent 18-year marriage with diplomat-novelist, Romain Gary, heralded the permissive 1960s. She accepted his infidelities. He let her go off on her travels to research her books, not obliging her to stay home. By the time they reached Hollywood in 1956, they were at the peak of their writing careers. Gary then left her for the young actress Jean Seberg. Lesley travelled back east to Siberia, Outer Mongolia, Turkey, Iran, Samarkand, Afghanistan and Egypt. I loved Lesley’s chutzpah. She never apologised for who she was. She survived failure and endured numerous knockbacks, including a fire that destroyed her house and most of its contents in 1994: she had it rebuilt. When I was setting up BookBlast Ltd in 1997 she cheered me on and told me to be the best version of myself. Her Arabic sayings are a comfort on dull days, a favourite being: “Enjoy this world, for it may be the only Paradise you will ever know.” Extract The patterns of my life were forever changing, forming and re-forming, adapting and developing, a “perpetuum mobile” of great journeys, biting poverty, nomadic uprootings and agitating romantic interludes. All these different states of being produced a number of different women, among whom I occasionally recognised something of myself, with the fundamental self lurking beneath the latest facade. Then something would happen and the climate would change, the pace quicken, and I would be off again towards some other facet of living and see another self emerging beneath the now rather worn facade. It was a restless life. Indeed, much as the gypsy foretold. Yet beneath all these alter-ego ladies that slid easily from one state to another – scatterbrain teenager, bookworm, romantic Miss, would-be scholar, painter, breadwinner, journalist, mistress, housewife, traveller and traveller again – there lurked yet another self, some suppressed gene that caused me to long for a house with its land and a roof and rooms, in which to take root. All of my other selves still longed for distant shores, for the eternal Elsewhere, but one self still yearned to unpack and stay put within four walls. The house in which I now live has gradually acquired subtle qualities which defy or evade strictures of time, distance, or substance. Which is just as well, for at the age of 100, one might otherwise be described as washed up on the shores of time.  More about the bookFor a generation raised on therapy and the assiduous pursuit of emotional “truth”, there is something disconcerting about the contrast between Blanch’s intensely sexy femininity and her quasi-masculine ability to compartmentalise emotion. Sooner or later, no doubt, a formal biography will dismantle the rococo stage set on which she chose to present herself, to reveal a reality that is bleaker, but not necessarily closer to the truth.Blanch wrote that “learning how to deal with pain is the most important thing in life”, and this volume, edited with affection and grace by De Chamberet, is a deliciously readable monument to a writer who combined a steely resilience and capacity for hard work with an elegant frivolity and a voracious appetite for love, beauty and adventure. – Jane Schilling, the TelegraphBuy the bookOn The Wilder Shores of Love: A Bohemian Life by Lesley Blanch edited by Georgia de Chamberet is published by Virago, priced £10.99. It is available from the Guardian bookshop priced £9.34.