Premieres Vice News Tonight   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When we think of the nightly news, we think of Tom Brokaw or some other white-haired dude reading about everything that is wrong with the world and ending with a sweet human interest story about a woman who gets arrested to cross it off her bucket list or some nonsense. Vice is trying to change all that, bringing the same globetrotting gonzo sensibility to the evening news that it does to its weekly program. It’s still unclear exactly what the format is going to be, but there certainly won’t be a Tom Brokaw type. HBO, Monday, 10 October at 7:30pm ETAmerican Housewife   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ABC has been absolutely killing it lately with the funniest fun sitcoms around. The newest addition features Katie Otto (Katy Mixon) as the “second-fattest housewife” in a glam suburb of Connecticut where she’s trying to make sure her daughter, who has obsessive-compulsive disorder, gets the help she needs and her two other children don’t turn into awful preps who only wear Lululemon and drink green juice. This Tuesday also marks the return of the night’s other shows on the all-star lineup, The Middle, Fresh Off the Boat, and The Real O’Neals. ABC, Tuesday 11 October at 8.30pm ETGraves   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Nick Nolte plays a former conservative president, Richard Graves, who, several years into his retirement, realizes that he left the country in a better place than where he found it. He then goes on a tour of attrition trying to right the wrongs he made to the system. Right now everyone is more concerned with presidents future than past, but this could be just the comedy we need. Epix, Sunday 16 October at 10pm ETNew to StreamingGoliath   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Amazon is known for putting its new dramas through “pilot seasons”, after which viewers get to vote on what should go to series. That didn’t happen with this series from David E Kelley (Picket Fences, Ally McBeal, Boston Legal) about a drunkard of an ambulance chaser (Billy Bob Thornton) who gets sucked into a very complicated case that may or may not implicate his old white-shoe law firm and its dastardly leader (William Hurt) in some serious malfeasance. With such a killer roster of talent, it’s no wonder Amazon rushed at the chance to air this. Amazon, Friday 14 OctoberHaters Back Off   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Miranda Sings is a comic genius, though only those who aren’t old enough to get a driver’s license know about her. The creation of YouTuber Colleen Ballinger, Miranda is a hilariously clueless wannabe pop star who thinks that just by uploading covers of top 40 songs to YouTube she’s going to become instantly famous. (She’s not wrong; she has 6 million subscribers.) This show follows a fictional account of how Miranda went from a suburban unknown to a suburban unknown who believes that she’s a megastar. Netflix, Friday October 14What to catch up onPlease Like Me    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It would be easy to call this show, about two questionably employed 20-something roommates in Sydney, the Australian Girls except, well, they’re both boys. Created by Josh Thomas and starring him and his real life best friend Thomas Ward, it’s a show about being lost after college and how sometimes self-absorbed people can find their way in the world. It deals with issues of mental health, when Josh’s mother is sent to the asylum, and sexual orientation, as Josh comes out to his high school girlfriend and tries his hand at romancing the lads. The brilliant third season is now available, so viewers can binge the entire series. Don’t worry, no matter how you feel about Girls, you’ll really like Please Like Me. Hulu, Tuesday 11 OctoberAround the webFalling Water    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If you want to sample USA’s transformation from the land of “blue sky” procedurals into a home for edgy content a la Mr Robot, try out this new sci-fi thriller whose first episode is available online. Three unrelated people each realize that they’re having the same dream and it leads them to some shady organizations that are trying to control the world by controlling other people’s dreams. It’s like Inception, but with 100% less Leonardo DiCaprio. For those who’d rather watch on cable, the show premieres Thursday 13 October at 10pm ET on USA.TV newsDiversity comes to Doctor WhoPortlandia takes on the men’s rights movementTV’s most toxic couplesIs Westworld really just a western Game of Thrones? TV is getting high on shows about pot 