Below is this week’s playlist – the theme and tunes picked by a reader from the comments on last week’s callout. Thanks for your suggestions.  about the format of the weekly Readers recommend series at the end of the piece.Big, brash, and upfront with it: the big hits get everyone’s attention because they deserves it. Fair enough. But then there is an immediate follow-up and some think the quality is still there; some don’t, and, inevitably it seems, the figures take a dip. Then … nothing. Sometimes for years, because there’s nothing worthy of attention. That’s how it goes, right? WRONG! Artist or athlete, Billboard chart or medal table, there’s at least as much happening away from the limelight as there is on our screens. I’m taking the current Rio Paralympics as an often forgotten follow-up as my inspiration, and with a bit of license letting, both the music and the athletes’ stories take you on a journey into the un[fairly under-]known.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist. Scroll down orclick here if you prefer Spotify.Jah Wobble opens our playlist with Ungodly Kingdom, which last week’s RR guru Chris Wheatley explains in his nomination failed to chart as the follow-up to a top 40 hit with Sinéad O’Connor in the early 90s. And leaning towards my Paralympian theme, Furniture’s The Wrong Shoes, [full nomination and justification for that here thanks to saneshane] put me in mind of Hannah Cockroft’s ruminations on sponsorship at the Games. In my mind, there’s no lowering of standards when we go from those big, brash Olympics to the follow-up Paralympics – it’s just different. We go, as Hue and Cry have it, from Strength to Strength. Ali Jawad fits that description, lifting more than three times his bodyweight in Rio to secure the medal that eluded him in London. Wow! Mr Apollo (Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band) indeed.    suddenthump 09 September 2016 11:01amI still puzzle over Hue and Cry's 1987 hit Labour of Love. It was anti-Thatcherite polemic, but because it was wrapped up in pop imagery (ie a labour of love), the metaphor keeps interrupting itself and breaking down. But did I care in 1987? Hellno! I just wanted to let rip with "ain't gonna work for you no more!" over and over. It got to number 6.The follow up, Strength to Stength, vanished at number 46. - I suppose it had all gone a bit too jazz funk for some, but what the hell, I like that sort of thing even more now than I did then. Also contains the pretentious (ie good) lyrics "Words will make it happen / then he's gonna be happy / like an ideology" which suggests that the Bros Kane had been reading Louis Althusser. Or not. Here it is: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vCSnG33Xz1gAs I write, Ellie Simmonds has posted a new world record time defending her 200-metre medley title in the pool, and is giving her now customary disbelieving post-race interview. Susie Rodgers has a better OMG face though. So let’s have a suitably aquatic song: here’s Merril Bainbridge with Under the Water. Hopefully afterwards, when reality has sunk in, Then She Smiles (Mock Turtles).    deanofromoz 09 September 2016 1:16amI realise that a lot of the people who hang out here are from the UK, and neither the "hit" or the "follow up" seemed to have done anything much in the UK, so I might be pushing uphill, but here goes.In the mid 90's, Merril Bainbridge burst onto the Australian music scene with a big hit "Mouth". It went number one in Australia, and actually cracked the US market, a rare feat for an Aussie artist, reaching top five on the US Charts.It was catchy sweet pop, but possibly not representative of the rest of the album, which is more ballads leaning to towards folk. I am a big fan of her music.The follow up single is great - but was't as successful in Australia, and bombed in the US, only just cracking the top 100.Under the Water - Merril BainbridgeUK athletes such as Simmonds (OBE), Cockroft (MBE) and Dame Sarah Storey are actually pretty well-known – the equivalent, I guess, of a follow-up single that does chart, but maybe not to the dizzy heights of the big hit. How about Cornershop, though? Their Lessons Learned from Rocky I to Rocky III charted at 37 in the UK four years after Brimful of Asha remixed by Norman Cook rose to No 1 in 1998. Do we remember it?Back to the Paralympics: it is great to see home heroes such as Brazilian swimmer Daniel Dias receive all sorts of Adorations (Killing Joke). What I love just as much are the back-stories of the new names: GB cyclists Megan Giglia and Steve Bate got their Call Up (the Clash) late, but rose magnificently to the occasion. Libby Clegg has won another gold, but with brother James not in Rio, hopefully the Clegg parents had an easier schedule to keep than in London. Two children competing? Reason enough to A-list Marc Cohn’s The Things We’ve Handed Down. Just as inspirational, but sadly still without a Paralympic medal after her 3-2 defeat in the bronze play-off, is table tennis player Sue Gilroy. Sometimes, it’s a Heartbreak Beat (Psychadelic Furs).    dave56 12 September 2016 11:07amPretty in Pink was the Psychedelic Furs only top 20 hit. The follow up got to 79 in the charts.The Psychedelic Furs -- Heartbreak BeatThe 7-a-side football squad were prepared for their tournament at the same St George’s complex near Burton-upon-Trent that the full England teams use, but narrow defeats to Ukraine and the hosts killed any medal hopes. Having met them all twice in the run-up to the Games, I’m particularly disappointed for them. I genuinely thought they were great. That may, on reflection, be because I understand football. There are some sports that amazed me. Wheelchair basketball, for instance. Those guys are incredible! A proper manic mass of metal, flesh and tension. Only one way I can soundtrack that. I’ve left it to the end of the playlist, so you can skip it if you want, but here’s Lou Reed’s follow-up to Perfect Day, Metal Machine Music Part 1. New themeThe theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on 8 September. You have until 11pm on 19 September to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.