An abandoned Victorian theatre hidden inside Alexandra Palace that has been closed to audiences for more than 80 years could soon reopen after a campaign was launched to restore it.The existence of the “frozen in time” theatre is not widely known but it is considered one of the most architecturally significant and historic parts of the entertainment complex in north London, built in the 1870s as “the People’s Palace”.The fundraising campaign hopes to raise enough cash to bring the venue back to life for theatre, cinema, comedy and live music by 2018.A wider project to restore the palace’s east wing is already getting £18.8m from the Heritage Lottery Fund and £6.8m from Haringey council. Alexandra Park and Palace Charitable Trust is now looking to raise £1m to ensure the project is completed.The trust’s chief executive, Louise Stewart, said the theatre had been “hidden away” for more than 80 years creating “a unique and atmospheric space which you can’t fail to be moved by”.She added: “Alexandra Palace is the original ‘People’s Palace’, held in trust for the public to enjoy forever, so we are appealing to the public to help us to make sure that this truly wonderful space can once again delight and entertain them, the audience it was intended for.”The theatre opened in 1875, capable of holding an audience of 3,000 and staging pantomimes and spectacles with huge casts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   View of the Alexandra Palace theatre auditorium. Photograph: Miles Willis/Getty Imagesthe deputy chief executive, Emma Dagnes, said the theatre was unique. “Most people who go into it describe it as magical because it is a lost space. It has been closed for pretty much 80 years now, so when you walk in there that feeling of being the first person to have come upon it really takes you over.”The plans are for a flexible multifunctional space with a capacity for 1,300 people.Dagnes said the campaign planned to put on performances that would raise eyebrows. “The space was always meant for popular entertainment and popular performers and we’re aiming to embrace that. We will welcome spoken word, drama, opera, musicals and underlining that will be the quality of the offer. It will be important that our programming is reflecting the beauty of the space.”Supporters can donate to the campaign here. Anyone who gives £25 or more will get a credit on the donor board in the building’s restored East Court, while £900 will get a circle seat plaque.