When the whalers of the mid-19th century harpooned the planet’s biggest marine mammals into near-oblivion, at least they took copious notes. These are now being used to better understand ocean science: if you enjoy a bit of historical ecology, you’ll find them at  whaling.oldweather.org.I wish whaling was all historical, but right now the Japanese whaler Nisshin Maru is likely to be in hot pursuit of the Southern Ocean’s remaining whales. At least they face opposition from direct action charity Sea Shepherd, which recently launched Ocean Warrior, a new anti-whaling vessel.Commercial whaling was banned in 1986, but two loopholes still allow hunting on the grounds of scientific research (exploited by the Japanese) and indigenous subsistence (exploited by Norway, Iceland and the Faroe Islands). The first of Japan’s scientific programmes lasted 18 years and killed 6,800 whales without any clear scientific discoveries. In 2014, the international court of justice ruled that their new programme was unlawful, but Japan continues to issue its own permits.So far, so deadlocked. But there’s some hope on the horizon: the toxicity of whale meat means that its market is diminishing. Iceland’s biggest fleet did not hunt this summer due to a lack of market.Also, research scientists are getting very excited about whale faeces. Really. Adult blue whales consume in the region of two tonnes of iron-rich krill a day. This means whale poo is an extraordinary natural fertiliser for the Southern Ocean (known for being problematically anaemic), encouraging the growth of phytoplankton. Without it? Well, let’s just say the stability of this ocean is critical for the climate and the planet as a whole.Save the whale? We need to let the whale save us.The big picture: eyes in the sky      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   If pigs could fly: a factory pork farm in North Carolina. Photograph: Courtesy: Mark Devries / Factory Farm DronesFilmmaker Mark Devries is just one eco activist using drone cameras to provide the world with a clearer picture of the ecological fallout of factory farming. Others have shown illegal road clearances and habitat loss. But as the Columbia Journalism Review reports, new US laws are cracking down on this type of drone imagery, which gives an invaluable bird’s-eye view of what really goes on without us being aware.Well dressed: Po-zu feels the force      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sky walker: the Rey boot from Po-zu Photograph: PR Company HandoutIt’s exciting when an alternative fashion brand you’ve championed scores a big success. I’ve waxed lyrical about UK shoe brand Po-zu for many years. As they explain, the pace of fashion is way too fast now: we buy more and more shoes just to throw them away. An average of three pairs of shoes per person is sent to landfill each year. But Po-zu have steadfastly stuck to renewable and natural shoe materials, including coconut and hemp, and have never compromised their ethical production and belief that shoes should have a long lifespan. Well, the launch of a co-brand with Star Wars means that the force is definitely with them. Po-zu will be producing official and obviously ethical replicas of the footwear in the new film. You’ll have to wait until August 2017 to get hold of them, but here’s a sneak preview of the Rey boot.Email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle