Edinburgh festival planner: three shows to see today The heart of the Edinburgh fringe undoubtedly moved to the Old Town and towards the Meadows with the arrival of the Summerhall venue a few years ago. Apart from the always vibrant Edinburgh international book festival in Charlotte Square, there are fewer reasons to visit the New Town. Particularly as the Assembly Rooms on George Street have been given over to what is being described as a digital festival, which means endless showings of filmed versions of theatre. My, it’s so much easier and less messy than having to go to the bother of actually putting on a live performance.The entire UK theatre community that needs to look at this development and be very afraid of a culture that assumes that seeing a digital performance is the same as seeing a live one. What is happening in George Street could happen in arts centres across the country unless those offering digital theatre realise that the golden goose is the live event and they need to help and cherish it or they will kill it. Digital is great – an opportunity for theatre, not just a threat – but it must be used responsibly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Returning hero … Dan Canham, creator of 30 Cecil StreetOne very good reason to venture beyond the Old Town lies down Leith Walk where at the Out of the Blue Drill Hall in Dalmeny Street, Forest Fringe is once again in action with a programme of free performance that celebrates the outfit’s 10th year. I still recall vividly the moment when Andy Field took me to see a quiet young woman called Deborah Pearson who was running a festival of new work in a church hall above a vegan cafe in Bristo Place. That became Forest Fringe, an organisation that set out to break the Edinburgh mould by inviting artists to come to the city without having to pay for the space and offered audiences the chance to see cutting-edge work. Even more importantly, it recognised that Edinburgh was not only a place to sell work but also a place to make it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Paper Cinema’s NightflyerWith the sale of that Bristo Place venue – now all prettified and gentrified like the Assembly Rooms on George Street – Forest moved to the Out of the Blue Drill Hall, where my annual pilgrimage offers the perfect antidote to the sense of the Edinburgh fringe as one big sales pitch. Forest Fringe is all the things that theatre can be: messy, intensely live and alive, contrary and surprising, sometimes astonishing and often quite badly behaved. This year’s Forest festival, which continues until 20 August, celebrates its past by inviting back shows that have been previously programmed, including this week Dan Canham’s 30 Cecil Street, Paper Cinema’s Nightflyer, Rosana Cade’s Walking:Holding and Search Party’s Growing Old With You. There is also a bundle of new work by emerging and established artists.Forest is one of the fringe’s most vibrant beating hearts, having nurtured talents such as Kieran Hurley and Lucy McCormick and having created a climate that allows more experimental work to thrive in a fringe context. It’s not that Summerhall couldn’t or wouldn’t have thrived without Forest Fringe, but it would have found it much harder. Forest laid the ground and there is now a two-way traffic between the venues. FK Alexander’s mighty (I Could Go on Singing) Over the Rainbow at Summerhall would be equally at home at Forest. So too would McCormick’s Triple Threat, which is at Underbelly, and the wonderful Dancer, which is at Dance Base this week.As the rise of circus proves, a critical mass of a certain kind of work allows that artform to thrive in the competitive environment of the fringe. In the case of contemporary experimental work, Forest has been in the forefront of encouraging a culture of risk-taking. It’s from such acorns that oaks grow and the shoots can be spotted popping up all over the fringe. For that we should all say thank you.