Since winning the BBC National Short Story award this week for “Disappearances”, I have been asked whether I am writing a novel. This is something that happens to short story writers. I have responded obliquely. There are good reasons for this: most importantly, one of the exciting aspects of writing is finding the form appropriate to the subject you are exploring – whatever it may be.Disappearances by KJ Orr – read the 2016 winner of the BBC national short story award In talking about writing, I’ve found myself describing the process of feeling my way as a writer, and the power of not knowing – something David Constantine has written very eloquently about. I’ve found myself talking about my love of the shapeshifting quality of the short story, a capacity that I’ve always felt gives you great freedom to lend form to the territory you are drawn to write about. I’ve talked about how it can give expression to a host of contradictory impulses and feelings and understandings, how it honours complexity, how it doesn’t patronise the reader. Ali Smith, in one of my all-time favourite interviews on the short story, has discussed it as a form that calls to the reader for a responsive engagement, one that can feel really alive: “The life of form and the form of life both become spotlit.” I have returned to short stories over and over for the love of this living quality.The fact is, the sort of creative challenge and freedom I associate with the short form is there for the taking. I have been excited to witness the successes of Max Porter, Claire-Louise Bennett, Dorthe Nors – writers who are embracing these challenges and freedoms. I recently heard Porter talking about writers who are permission givers – writers who open up the possibilities of form. I believe there is a hunger for form that is playful, that thinks on its feet about the best way to communicate what it means to live in our times – in this head, with this heart, through this experience.But in publishing, too, we need permission givers, people who say: “Yes, I will publish your short stories, your novel in fragments, your novella in verse, your prose poems.” I believe there are readers longing to enter into dialogue in this way, from the bookseller who presses a book into your hand and says, “You have to read this”, to editors, agents and marketing departments. We need people who are brave enough to back a book they can’t pin with a label.