Until I knew the real story, I had some fun imagining the meeting at which Lee Hall, writer of such hits as Billy Elliot and The Pitmen Painters, proposed the show that eventually became the Olivier award-winning Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour. On paper, after all, it sounds unlikely, being a musical adaptation of Alan Warner’s scabrous 1998 novel, The Sopranos, a book that charts 24 hours in the chaotic, hormonally charged lives of six Catholic schoolgirls, all of whom are members of the choir of Our Lady of Perpetual Succour. And even once you’ve seen it, conveying its particular genius to others is all but impossible. As Hall has admitted, it’s not really a play. Nor is it much of a musical, in the full sense of that word. The production is more like a gig – if, that is, gigs existed in which both Bach, Bartók, the Brookside theme tune and the songs of ELO were all performed with exactly the same rapt devotion by a group of teenagers.The real story, of course, is that there was no meeting. At an awards ceremony some 10 years ago now, Hall rather drunkenly accosted Vicky Featherstone, the founding artistic director of the National Theatre of Scotland (these days, she runs the Royal Court in Chelsea), berating her for having failed ever to stage an adaptation of Warner’s book. She promptly berated him back, telling him that it was one of the first things she’d tried to do, only there had been a problem with the rights. By the end of their conversation, then, they were agreed. She would try once again to get permission to adapt the book. Meanwhile, Hall could start thinking about how, exactly, the project might be realised. It wasn’t until 2015 that the show (complete with a three-piece band) had its premiere at the Traverse theatre, as part of the Edinburgh festival fringe.Two years on, and Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour has toured Britain (including a stint at the National Theatre), Australia and the US, and is now, having won an Olivier award for best new comedy, about to open in a 17-week run in the West End. For its cast, six young women – yes, not a single bloke appears in this production – who between them play not only the teenage singers but dozens of other characters, too, this is a big deal – though not, perhaps, quite so big a deal right now as the fact that, last night, Brian May of Queen lost his mobile phone under one of their seats (I am meeting them, slightly unwisely perhaps, the morning after the night of the Olivier awards ceremony, for which they were also nominated collectively for best actress in a supporting role). “It was one of the best nights of my life,” says Karen Fishwick, who plays Kay. “Sheridan Smith was behind us, and Matthew Bourne was in front, and backstage we got our photos taken with Andrew Garfield and Denise Gough. It felt like an out-of-body experience. Here’s a room of amazing people, and you’re one of them, now. Our award was announced second, and it was surreal trying to process it in front of this sea of people.” Later on, they all had quite a lot to drink. “There wasn’t much… beverage at the awards themselves,” says Dawn Sievewright (Fionnula). “And we were sitting there for three and a half hours. So, at the party, we all went a bit mad.”Sievewright, at 30, is the oldest of the six actors; Isis Hainsworth, at 18, is the youngest (the only newcomer for the play’s West End run, she will play Orla). They are a close, bonded group by now, having performed together for almost two years, and having experienced, nerve-rackingly, Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour in every one of its myriad incarnations. “It’s going to be a bit funny for Isis,” says Sievewright. “Or perhaps I mean not very funny. Because I don’t think there is a [written] up-to-date version of what we do on stage. It changed even on the last tour.” (In the early days, when they were still workshopping the show, Hall would deliver a new script practically every morning: “That was great because we got to collaborate.”) Perhaps this is one reason why their appetite for the production is so obviously undiminished. “If ever you feel a bit tired, you just look at the five people on stage with you and find strength in them,” says Caroline Deyga (Chell).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The original production of the show at the Traverse theatre, Edinburgh for the 2015 festival fringe. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the ObserverAt their original auditions – “so difficult: we had to do monologues and a cappella singing,” says Fishwick – each actor was asked which character they identified with most strongly; it says something about the effectiveness of Featherstone and Hall’s casting that they all went on to play the character they named that day. “I wasn’t anxious about casting,” Featherstone will tell me in an email later. “I’d spent five years running the National Theatre of Scotland, and knew that, more than any community of actors I’d ever known, Scottish performers have an incredible versatility: they grow up on panto and singing at family gatherings. But then, finding women with the specificity to carry the different musical forms and the many characters they have to play was hard. We auditioned many, many young women.” Looking at them now, gathered around a conference table, you can see the essence of their characters in their faces – even if it is also slightly unnerving how little, in mufti, they resemble schoolgirls.In the play, nothing much happens, and yet, somehow, everything does. The girls travel from Oban, where they live, to Edinburgh, where their choir will take part in a competition. Along the way, they get drunk, muck about, meet a few blokes, and get themselves into a few scrapes. Occasionally, their backstories creep in. One is dealing with serious illness, another with her sexuality. But what the show is really about is that difficult but golden period between childhood and the moment when you must leave home or get a job. These girls can still express themselves, be as daft as they like. But the audience knows what they sense only vaguely, which is that their time will soon be up. Adulthood, with all its cares and burdens, is hurtling violently towards them.How, I wonder, did they get back in touch with their fifth-form selves? Oh, that was easy, they say. “For me, there is a part of you, when you’re a teenager, that never leaves you,” says Deyga. “You always remember that part.” Far more exciting and challenging, for all of them, was the opportunity to play the various men the girls meet on their day of adventure. “That’s my favourite part of the show,” says Fishwick. “I’m a bit of a clown anyway, but it was great, being encouraged to show off in such a safe environment.”At the workshop stage, they discussed the background of the men they would play, their jobs, their mannerisms. “We even had physical pictures of what they might look like,” says Frances Mayli McCann (Kylah). At first, it made them nervous that there would be no costume changes, that they would be performing these men in their school kilts and ties. “But then we realised that the more we could embody them physically, the better,” says Kirsty MacLaren (Manda). “If you use hats and moustaches and whatnot, it becomes a show about girls pretending to be guys. Originally, we wore a lot more makeup, but after the first preview, Vicky said: ‘You need to take that off; the audience won’t buy it when you become the men.’ We needed our faces to be a blank canvas.” Featherstone and Imogen Knight, the production’s choreographer, taught them to take their fear and use it as a strength. “I’ll carry that with me for the rest of my life,” says Fishwick. “The reason this show is so raucous and liberating is because of them,” says Sievewright. “Vicky would say: ‘There’s no filter here. You can do anything.’ She gave us the licence to play.”Alan Warner: How I fell in love with Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour On the night I saw Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour, on the National Theatre’s smallest stage, the audience cheered when the cast took their curtain call. But the woman in the seat next to mine – middle-aged, very neat in navy – walked out after only 10 minutes, seemingly disgusted by the swearing. (What made this all the more surprising was that she had turned to me before it began, and told me how much she was looking forward to the show, having read such good things about it.) This kind of thing wasn’t, the cast tells me, particularly unusual – though responses were noticeably different depending on where the theatre happened to be. Americans, at least in Connecticut, have a strong antipathy towards the word “cunt”.“We were confident,” says Deyga. “We knew what we were trying to do, and we accepted that the audience will feel how it feels. It wasn’t our job to second-guess them, it was our job to tell the story. But some people will be offended. Some find the swearing quite difficult, but they stick with it to the end, and eventually they connect with the story. Others aren’t able to ride it out, and while I feel sorry for them, I also understand it.” Sievewright isn’t quite so tolerant. “In Dundee, a lady left, and she said to the front of house [staff] she couldn’t listen to women swearing. Well, that’s why this show exists. Women do swear. This is real life.”They have been struck by the way journalists – not this one – ask them what their “real” job is, or how they manage to “keep up their studies”, something they find enraging. “That’s not right,” says Sievewright, furiously. Isn’t this, though, simply a confusion born of how brilliantly they embody their roles? Grudgingly, she considers this for a moment. Then she says: “I don’t think the [men who starred in] The History Boys [by Alan Bennett] were asked that, or the guys from Black Watch [Gregory Burke’s Iraq war play].” She picks the casts of these plays because, again and again, these are the ones with which comparisons are drawn when it comes to Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour, for all that they have close to nothing in common with it. “I guess that’s because people are not used to seeing a group of strong women on stage,” she says. “And in the end, that’s why it’s so wonderful to be a part of this show. It gives women licence to be themselves, rather than just what other people want them to be.”• Our Ladies of Perpetual Succour is at the Duke of York’s theatre, London WC2 from 9 May until 2 September. 