There was something pure about David Bowie. This might seem a strange thing to say about a man with Bowie’s reputation for rock-star excess, but it’s true. Through every costume change, every stage persona, he remained authentically, unadulteratedly himself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie promoting The Man Who Sold The World in 1972. Photograph: Everett Collection / Rex FeatureBecause of this, among the millions of people to whom David Bowie was (how strange to write that) special, there will always be some who resent the notion of Bowie as a style icon. This status cheapens his genius; it’s all about the music, they say. And, of course, they are right, in that the music is sublime and extraordinary. But Bowie was bigger than music. He was about individuality, and masculinity, and sex. He was about culture: in 1969, when the rest of the world just watched the moon landings on TV, he wrote Space Oddity, which oh-so-casually skewered the idea of space travel in a format we could relate to, in the persona of Major Tom.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie performing in concert in 1987. Photograph: Everett/REX/ShutterstockAnd he was about style. Style in the sense of using the way you look to talk to the world, of dressing yourself as the hero of your own story. The V&A’s 2013 exhibition about Bowie included an early video of the artists Gilbert & George, describing living as “one big sculpture”. Bowie made art out of his clothes, his poses, his makeup, as well as in the recording studio.Bowie the film star: imaginative, daring and endlessly charismatic Bowie made being an outsider cool. He was at the centre of the party, but dressed like a freak: both immersed in popular culture and, at the same time, independent of it. He pulled off looks no one else could, from Aladdin Sane’s lightning streak to catsuits and platforms, from early Japanese avant-garde fashion to bespoke Alexander McQueen stagewear. But he also had an instinct for elegance, an appreciation of tailoring and a sense of colour and line that gave him grace and glamour even in his most freakish alter egos. In a 2013 BBC poll, Bowie was voted the best-dressed Briton in history. He won 48.5%, beating Elizabeth I into second place.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie performs on stage on his Ziggy Stardust/Aladdin Sane tour in London, 1973. Photograph: Michael Putland/Getty ImagesBowie’s most lasting impact on fashion was through the litheness of his interpretations of what masculinity might look like. Bowie was somehow both androgynous in the extreme and, at the same time, as male as Bruce Springsteen. The notions of gender fluidity that catwalk fashion and popular culture are engaged with now, in 2016, were there on stage with Bowie forty years ago. I think that’s called being ahead of the game. In almost all his guises Bowie had an otherworldly, almost ghostly, aesthetic that somehow makes his death even harder to process. Think of the famous Terry O’Neill portrait, of Bowie in an English mustard-coloured suit, the shade sickly against his pale skin, the cigarette smoked almost to the quick. He looks eerie, almost unearthly. I’m not at all sure we ever quite knew he was mortal.