It seemed the limits had been reached for reality TV last year when Nine released The Briefcase – a TV show widely condemned as “exploitative” and “poverty porn”. When Channel Seven announced the release of Bride and Prejudice: The Forbidden Weddings, I hoped they’d attempted to do something different with the genre. Unfortunately I’ve been disappointed yet again.Bride and Prejudice follows five couples as they organise their dream weddings. There is, however, one thing standing in their way: their families. Screen Bites: I watched Never Teach Your Wife to Drive so you didn't have to In episode one we are introduced to three of the five pairings: Donny and Marina, Courtney and Brad, and Grant and Chris. Marina’s mum, who is Russian, does not want her daughter to marry someone with Donny’s cultural background. Brad’s mother thinks he is marrying too young. Chris’s parents, who are Jehovah’s Witnesses, believe his homosexuality is a sin. The show follows its stars from the moments of engagement until their big days, asking all along whether their parents will give up their prejudices to support their children’s happiness.Going into this first episode, I had high hopes. The show delves into some fascinating topics. Prejudice within families – whether it is due to age, sexuality, race or religion – is not uncommon, and it can cause a lot of pain, tearing families apart and ruining relationships.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Courtney and Brad just after Brad proposes. Photograph: SevenMoreover, these issues often open up extremely complex and pertinent questions. I’m fascinated by the history behind these feuds – I want to learn about the factors that lead to prejudice, why these ideas have remained so engrained in family life, and the different ways families have dealt with them.Unfortunately, Bride and Prejudice left me  wearily disappointed. The show deals with these complex issues in the most typical way: by shoving a camera in participants’ faces. The main aim is not to ask difficult questions, but to put participants in painful situations and elicit conflict. This is not to say there are not interesting moments. Some of the interviews with both children and parents elicit real insight. In one scene, the audience watches as Chris’s father scrolls through his son’s Facebook page, admitting he feels “sick” at what he sees, but that he also cannot stop paying attention to Chris’s life – in spite of his prejudice, he still loves his son. It’s not clear yet whether he will accept his son’s relationship, but it’s an illustration of the contradictions at play in prejudice.  But these moments of genuine complexity get lost amid the drama. Instead of trying to genuinely connect us with these characters and what they’re going through, the show uses these moments to set up a very two-dimensional picture: good, pure, couples who just want love, clashing against evil, prejudiced, parents who will do anything to stop their children from being happy. Behind the scenes of reality TV: 'You're a little bit daft to apply' Bride and Prejudice could have been a great fly-on-the-wall documentary. It could have been an opportunity for people to learn – both about the pain prejudice causes, but also about where it comes from and how we can overcome it.This is worthwhile subject matter. There are interesting characters, and it’s delving into real issues that are critical right now. It could have been better. It could have been a break from the tired reality TV show tropes. But it isn’t. That’s the real disappointment. • Bride and Prejudice screens on Channel 7, Mondays at 9pm