MasterChef 8pm, BBC1A 13th helping of the culinary contest that sees Gregg Wallace salivate wildly and John Torode preside effectively, as 64 amateur cooks do their thing. As the series kicks off, the first eight must create a dish with ingredients from the new “MasterChef market” – imagine a rather more upmarket version of Ready Steady Cook’s “quickie bag”. What follows is more of the same, as the heat of the kitchen inspires some and scares the bejesus out of others. Hannah J DaviesDIY SOS: The Big Build9pm, BBC1Nick Knowles and his hardy team of Big Builders head for the Wye valley to visit the home of Charlotte, a stroke survivor and mother adapting to life with brain damage, speech loss and partial paralysis. Continuing her recovery within the confines of her existing home is proving a constant challenge, causing mobility issues and making physiotherapy treatment difficult. It’s up to Nick and his crew to redesign the house to maximise Charlotte’s mobility. Mark Gibbings-JonesThe Royal House of Windsor 9pm, Channel 4The final instalment of this chronicle of the royal family looks to the near future, as embodied by the Prince of Wales, the presumed King Charles III to be. Charles has had longer than any heir apparent in British history to ponder his eventual reign – yet will ascend the throne already past what most public sector professions would consider retirement age. This episode reflects on what we know, in search of what we can expect. Andrew Mueller Brian Pern: A Tribute10pm, BBC4Killing their creation off in a Segway accident allows Simon Day and writer-director Rhys Thomas to present “an exclusive, cobbled-together tribute, with whoever we could get hold of at short notice”. In practice, the spoof obituary means a greatest-hits feel, as Christopher Eccleston, Jane Asher and the rest take their characters’ disdain for Pern up a notch. There follows a compilation of Pern hits, “with some poorly written captions underneath”. Sublime. Jack SealeThe Blacklist: Redemption 9pm, Sky1Famke Janssen, famous as the assassin Onatopp in GoldenEye, stars in this spin-off series, whose opening interrogation sequence shows she can still strike terror into wayward males. She plays Susan Hargrave, chief of a covert mercenary operation that does the odd job the government is too squeamish to carry out. Tonight, she ends up joining forces with her son Tom, whose trip to New York wasn’t at all what he had expected. David StubbsMississippi Men10pm, HistoryThe “real-life Huck Finns” who live and work on the Mississippi river are a mixed bag. Gnarled, 90-year-old treasure hunter Ike represents the old school. He’s hoping that sediment churned up by fast-flowing water from a record freeze will uncover untold fortunes from the bottom of the river. New-schoolers Gary and Eddie, meanwhile, have a gun-toting confrontation after they find their catfish nets have been emptied by a rival fisherman. That’s serious business. Ben ArnoldBare Knuckle Fight Club 11.05pm, Channel 4Once an enforcer for a criminal gang, Shaun Smith now promotes bare-knuckle fights. It it is, he says, “the ultimate test for any man”, by way of explaining the appeal of a brutal pastime that’s, well, boxing with the gloves off. An engrossing doc that views its subjects unflinchingly yet sympathetically, this film gets up close and personal with Smith – a man clearly troubled by his own past – plus the fighters and their families. Jonathan WrightFilm choiceHigh Rise (Ben Wheatley, 2015) Wednesday, 9pm, Film4      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anarchy reigns: High Rise. Photograph: Planet Photos/StudioCanal/PLANET PHOTOSBen Wheatley, skilful purveyor of grisly-humoured creepiness in such films as Sightseers and Kill List, is perfectly at home with the high-style horror of JG Ballard’s sci-fi novel. In a retro-70s futureworld the residents of a luxury tower block are subject to a strict social order where the richer you are, the higher you go. Tom Hiddleston is smoothly enigmatic as surgeon Robert Laing, eyed from above by the clued-up Charlotte (Sienna Miller) as the cracks in the edifice widen and anarchy reigns.Valley of Love (Guillaume Nicloux, 2015)9.45pm, Sky Cinema PremiereGérard Depardieu and Isabelle Huppert are a separated couple whose son Michael writes to both before killing himself; he sends them to Death Valley, where they will see him one last time. Gérard, huge and sweating, and Isabelle, slight and pallid, united in a sun-bleached, alien landscape, make a mesmerising couple in a languid, ghostly tale.Live sportCycling: 3 Days of De Panne1pm, Eurosport 2The riders race from Zottegemto Koksijde in Belgium.Figure Skating: The World Championships 5.30pm, Eurosport 1The pairs’ short discipline inthe competition from Hartwall Arena in Helsinki, Finland.Tennis: The Miami Open8pm, Sky Sports 1Coverage of the eighth day at the Tennis Center at Crandon Park.