Alejandro González Iñárritu’s The Revenant, nominated in 12 categories at the Oscars, which take place this weekend, is based in part on the novel of the same title by Michael Punke. And yet all the force of the film turns on that “in part”. By transforming the novel’s largely functional descriptions of the natural environment to the fierce wintry features of mountains, plains, rivers and waterfalls, the entire landscape of the movie becomes a character in itself – helping to focus more fully on the survival struggles of the character Hugh Glass, the main protagonist superbly played by Leonardo DiCaprio.By giving him a Native American son, Iñárritu also adds a more meaningful plot twist than anything we find in the novel. The novel is a canvas upon which the director has projected many wishful things that evoke an American supremacy of yesteryear.Perhaps the most important of the film’s reworkings is the subtle justification it lends to the notion of settler colonialism. Events in the novel take place between 1 September 1823 and 7 May 1824, encompassing the tail end of the fur and pelt trade that took place in the United States and Canada for almost 250 years. Both Canada’s Indian Act of 1876 and the American General Allotment Act of 1887 developed as a long process of shifting from the agreed treaties of previous centuries to the formal colonialism of the 19th century.The Revenant review – a walk on the wild side The novel is set in the early stages of the establishment of this formal colonialism and offers hints about this process of settlement. There is an opening reference to the US army being sent in to defend a trading post against the attacks of a native tribe in Missouri. The movie also references the army, but places its activity in the background to unfolding events.Settler colonialism takes good and bad forms in the film – the bad invested in the greedy French pelt traders, the good infused in the redoubtable Glass, and by extension the English traders.The movie painstakingly establishes the credentials of Glass and his party, who are also shown trudging patiently through the icy terrain to reach the safety of their campsite. By contrast, the depiction of the French trappers is one of greed, rape and abhorrent racism against the native population.And with strands drawn together, the message is clear: that the uncharted territory that was North America was harsh and unforgiving and required a particular form of robust masculinity to be successfully tamed. This necessarily required the ruthless quelling of local populations, with layers of pacification added to the film that won’t be found in the novel.The most egregious form of this pacification in the movie is in the scenes of the razing of the Native Americans’ village. Since the villages appear when attacked to be occupied mainly by women and children, it comes to define a female and maternal quality to the aboriginal land. This stands in sharp contrast to the various episodes of violent and muscular masculinity that we see throughout the movie.Depictions of Glass’s wife suggest that he went native in more ways than one. Not only did he marry and have a child with a native Pawnee woman, he had also been educated into their language and spirituality. Again, this is a notable difference between the novel and the beautifully shot film.A long list of novels have been successfully adapted for the big screen in recent decades, but it must be said that The Revenant is not as accomplished as many of them. It is no The English Patient, or Life of Pi, or even Brooklyn. So why, one might ask, was it chosen for adaptation?The wilderness sweeping the Oscars speaks to America’s sense of dread Because it provides us with yet another instalment in the long line of images of the frontier of which Hollywood is so enamoured; cult classics such as Clint Eastwood’s Unforgiven (1992), Jim Jarmusch’s surreal Dead Man (1995), Tommy Lee Jones’s The Homesman (2014) and, of course, Gore Verbinski’s The Lone Ranger (2013). Because in today’s America – wrestling with serious existential doubts about the possibility of harmonious inter-race relations, and beset by the legacies of ill-judged frontier wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere – a film that glorifies settler colonialism evokes a celebrated past and thus becomes a vehicle for present-day celebration.With more diverse voices in Hollywood, there might have been a more critical take on what were historically brutal forms of colonial oppression. If studios – which choose what films get made and what stories are told – hope to do better, The Revenant seems a poor start.This article was amended on 22 February 2016 because it attributed Unforgiven to Oliver Stone. This has been corrected.