We are constantly surrounded by information, whether it’s emails, Facebook posts, or revision notes. Fluent readers can average a rate of 200-400 words per minute, so there is only so much content that one person can get through in a day. But what if we were able to double, or even triple, that rate? Would a faster reading speed mean that we could learn more?How physical exercise makes your brain work better Some people claim that it’s possible. In July last year, six-time speed reading champion Anne Jones sat down to read Harper Lee’s Go Set a Watchman. Just 25 minutes and 31 seconds later, she was finished – which equates to a reading rate of around 3,700 words per minute. Jones runs training courses teaching speed reading, recall and concentration techniques and there are numerous speed reading apps that have appeared on the market over the past few years. But do they actually work? First, we need to understand how we read.Biological basicsThe human eye movement system is central to our reading ability. It was a French ophthalmologist, Louis Émile Javal, who first described the patterns of movement during reading in 1878.Read over that sentence again, and think about how your eyes scan across the words. They don’t move smoothly over them. Instead, they make a series of short, sharp jumps, skipping over a few characters before briefly landing on a word. The movements are known as saccades and the pauses are called fixations.For a typical, fluent reader, the average size of a saccade is about eight letters. Each movement takes about 30 milliseconds and each fixation lasts around 250 milliseconds. You may think reading is a serial process – we move our eyes from one word to the next, from left to right (in English). However, we also sometimes make reverse saccades, jumping back to previous words in the sentence. These refixations tend to happen more frequently when a text is difficult to read or if the reader isn’t fluent. For the most part, we tend not to take any information in when a saccade is actually being performed, although we’re still processing information about the words we’ve just seen.RSVPThe fact that we often jump back in a sentence to reprocess difficult words poses a problem for speed reading apps. A number of programs say they can bump reading speeds up as high as 1,000 words per minute, using variations of a technique called rapid serial visual presentation, or RSVP.Rather than getting readers to move their eyes across lines of text, the words are presented individually, at a constant speed, faster than the natural reading rate. This technique is supposed to make readers more efficient because they spend less time moving their eyes across words.This implies that the time spent making saccades is wasted time – but it’s not. In a recent article (pdf), researchers argued that for this to be true, it would mean that your brain effectively stopped processing information when you make an eye movement, which we know not to be the case. Moreover, RSVP programs remove the opportunity to make reverse saccades and refixations. This means that if a reader doesn’t understand the meaning of a word or phrase, there’s no chance of backtracking through a sentence to try and figure it out in context.More than seeingReading isn’t just about seeing the words – you need to comprehend them to build up a picture about what the text means. So the problem with techniques like RSVP is that people are able to get through a block of text faster, but at the cost of accuracy and understanding. In a study directly comparing traditional reading with RSVP reading, it was found that literal comprehension of the text was impaired – although if participants could make inferences about the content of the text, they fared better. In other words, if you use a speed reading app, then you’ll probably get the gist of a piece of text, but you’ll struggle to recall detail about what you’ve just read.If you can't imagine things, how can you learn? So, does speed reading work?Well, yes and no. It really depends on what you’re reading and why you need to read it. As yet, there isn’t a trick that enables you to read a piece of text both quickly and accurately – there’s always going to be a trade-off.That means that in some situations, like scanning a news article or skimming over revision notes before an exam, speed reading is fine. But if you need to really get to grips with the content of a piece of writing, slow and steady wins the race. And if you just want to sit down and enjoy a good book, why bother rushing?Get involved with the Use your head series by joining the discussion on #useyourhead