Baywatch Dwayne Johnson’s pecs lead the way in a funned-up reboot of the jiggling-swimsuit TV series, all about those hardworking LA lifeguards.Beatriz at Dinner Mike White and Miguel Arteta have serious pedigree (Chuck & Buck/Good Girl) and this is their new collaboration: health worker Salma Hayek meets smarmy high-net-worther John Lithgow in a life-changing encounter.The Discovery This sounds unclassifiably mad: set in a world where the afterlife has been verified, Jason Segel falls in love with Rooney Mara while millions of people kill themselves. Funny weird, we’re guessing.The House A married couple lose their kid’s college fund, so naturally set up a casino in their basement. Will Ferrell and Amy Poehler star, need we say more?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Woody Harrelson in the trailer for Lost in London. Photograph: fathomevents.comLost in London Woody Harrelson’s directorial debut, inspired by his real-life night in the cells in 2002. To add to the excitement: he’ll screen the whole thing live, as it’s being shot.Rock That Body This looks like it could be a female version of Very Bad Things: a bachelorette party goes very wrong when the male stripper turns up dead. Scarlett Johansson leads the line; Ghostbusters’ Kate McKinnon and Fantastic Beasts’ Zoe Kravitz are among the buddies.Tully Director Jason Reitman and writer Diablo Cody have reunited with their Young Adult star Charlize Theron; she plays a mother who bonds with a night nanny called Tully. May not sound immediately riveting, but these are classy film-makers, so should be good.Wilson Daniel “Ghost World” Clowes’ graphic novel about a blunt-speaking misanthrope gets the film treatment, with Woody Harrelson in the title role, and Laura Dern as his estranged wife. Expect Clowes’ trademark bittersweet wit.Yeh Din Ka Kissa Despite its Hindi title (translating as The Story of the Day) this is a very New Yorky yarn from Noah Baumbach, with a very Baumbach cast: Dustin Hoffman, Ben Stiller, Emma Thompson and Adam Sandler. Looks great.