Harry Enfield is to make his theatrical debut in a revival of Once in a Lifetime, Moss Hart and George S Kaufman’s satirical comedy about Hollywood’s transition from the silent era to the talkies. The Young Vic production will star Enfield as movie mogul Herman Glogauer, a role previously taken by David Suchet in a 1979 Royal Shakespeare Company production and in the play’s last major London revival, at the National Theatre in 2005. Once in a Lifetime – which was written shortly after the first talking picture, The Jazz Singer, rocked the film industry – first ran on Broadway in 1930.Richard Jones will direct the new production, which begins previews on 25 November. Enfield, who last year undertook a high-profile UK stage tour with fellow comedian Paul Whitehouse, said: “When Richard suggested it, I thought that playing this all-powerful Hollywood studio boss sounded like a lot of fun. I love the Young Vic and I’m really excited to be working there, and with Richard Jones and the rest of the company, on this brilliant comedy.”Once in a Lifetime will be followed, in the Young Vic’s main house, by A Midsummer Night’s Dream directed by Joe Hill-Gibbins, whose last Shakespearean production at the Young Vic, Measure for Measure, filled the stage with a sea of inflatable sex dolls. Hill-Gibbins said that his Dream will explore the emotional complexities of “a grownup play about adult relationships” rather than be about “fickle adolescence and wacky fairies”. He stressed that it is a play about love, and that love “sometimes can be fun and magical but can also be difficult, painful and complex. That’s written-in throughout the play. It’s a comedy, and lots of comedy comes from pain. It’s a play about the joy of relationships, but also the damage that people can do to each other in relationships.” The production will be designed by Johannes Schütz, who worked on the Young Vic’s radical 2012 production of Chekhov’s Three Sisters.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gala Gordon, Mariah Gale and Vanessa Kirby in Three Sisters, designed by Johannes Schütz, at the Young Vic in 2012. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianA Midsummer Night’s Dream opens in February 2017. That month, the Young Vic’s Maria theatre will present See Me Now, a new show created and performed by sex workers. Its director, Mimi Poskitt, said the project was “born out of wanting to work with and understand more about who sex workers are. The industry is multifaceted, often invisible, yet shrouded in controversy. Over the last year we have been fortunate enough to work with an awesome group of performers who have shared their own deeply personal histories. They are writers, teachers, musicians, cleaners, parents; they work in IT, in public services. [Although] by no means definitive, what they are creating reflects a kaleidoscope of life experiences; some touching, some tough, some hilarious.” The show is a co-production by the Young Vic, Look Left Look Right and HighTide.The Young Vic has also announced casting details for its production of trade, written by debbie tucker green (whose play titles, like her name, are always given in lowercase). Performed in the theatre’s smallest space, the Clare, the play is a three-hander billed as “a sharp examination of our transactional world”. Directed by Bryony Shanahan, the play will star Ayesha Antoine, Jo Martin and Sharon Duncan-Brewster, who is currently playing Stella opposite Maxine Peake’s Blanche in a production of A Streetcar Named Desire at the Royal Exchange in Manchester.