Long before he became famous, James Bumgarner changed his name to Garner. If he hadn’t, he might have been slower to succeed. Smart, literate and incurably honest, Garner was a byword in his profession for authenticity, but he permitted himself that one small bogus moment. With the conspicuous and jaw-breaking exception of Jimmy Carter’s national security adviser Zbigniew Brzesinski, Americans of foreign background have always been sensible about changing their names to something easier for the locals to say. Australian immigrants, however, now tend to hang on to their original family moniker, even when it’s an impossible mouthful for anyone without training in phonetics. The politician Tim Soutphommasane is a conspicuous recent example.For a man whose surname no journalist can spell without medical assistance, Soutphommasane – let’s call him Tim – is often in the news. Lately, he has become famous all over again for complaining that too many people in the Australian political world don’t even try to pronounce his name. Since his name sounds wrong even when you say it right, it’s easy to see why. His name is just very hard to say even when you take it apart, syllable by syllable. But Tim thinks we aren’t trying hard enough.I salute his respect for the authentic, but I can only say that I never made a smarter move than when I changed my name from Klaus Jamselpanowicz back there in the day. Since it meant something obscene even in Croatian, it would undoubtedly have stunted my career as a television news announcer, if only for the time it took to say, “Here is the news. I’m Klaus Jamselpanowicz. Good night.”Clive James: I've been reliving my years as a TV critic, though this time with adverts Actually, my family on both sides were immigrants from England, but I find increasingly that my failing memory is turning into a fantasy. While I sit and dream on my terrace in this recent hot weather, I make plans that there will almost certainly be no time to fulfill. My essay about Bumgarner’s change of name would fit well into a final book of critical prose, but will there be time to write an introduction? And I’d need to write a whole new essay about how, the night before I interviewed Brzezinski in the White House, I sat up for hours practising his name and got too tired to ask him anything. It made no difference, because his accent was too thick for me to understand anyway, but he probably thought the same about mine.Why do we all bother with English? Swahili, very beautiful and almost impossible to mispronounce, would work far better as a universal language. “Taka kwenda”: I must go. And there is a lovely name for the rain: “Nvua.” Try it.