Widely regarded as one of the finest Australian albums ever made, the Triffids’ second album, Born Sandy Devotional, turns 30 this month.Australian anthems: the Triffids – Wide Open Road Most famous for its beloved single Wide Open Road, the album uses the empty desolation of the Australian landscape as a metaphor for loss and loneliness. To gauge the album’s enduring influence, 10 Australian musicians – peers of the Triffids and those who have grown up in the band’s shadow – discuss one song each from Born Sandy Devotional’s 10 tracks.Ben Salter (solo artist) on The Seabirds:“David McComb’s tempestuous holler kicks in immediately: ‘No foreign pair of dark sunglasses will ever shield you from the light that pierces your eyelids, the screaming of the gulls …’ “That thousand-yard stare sensibility, that Australian feeling which permeates the entire album, is firmly established. There’s a devastating electric guitar refrain which finally flattens out to one plaintive, repeated note, and the song ends with McComb’s anguished cry: ‘So where were you / where were you / where were you?’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Robert McComb (guitar/violin, the Triffids; older brother of David McComb) on Estuary Bed:“Sometimes I feel like [this song] is my life, growing up in Perth. Which is why [David McComb] got some credit as an Australian songwriter, because he used those images – the hot sand, the salt on the skin, the sun on the sidewalk, burning their feet. It’s just my childhood, as it was his.” (From Great Australian Albums documentary series.)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lindy Morrison (former drummer, the Go-Betweens) on Chicken Killer:“From the first snare beat at the end of the first line – ‘I knelt, I aimed, I missed, I ran’ – Martyn P Casey and Alsy Macdonald set a cracking, rolling rhythm that carries this wild tune to the finish line. “Nick Mainsbridge was the engineer on the album, and I swear you hear his touch: ‘Just let them go,’ he would have thought. And David is as big and blustery and confident as ever as he sings for his lost love, with gorgeous imagery. It’s a shocking, sad, violent song of love and revenge.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sarah Spencer (keyboard player, Blank Realm) on Tarrilup Bridge:“Is this a live song? No, that’s spooky-as-hell canned applause at the start. So weird. Then a xylophone that mirrors the strange and beautiful elocution of Jill Birt’s vocals. Is she singing from beyond the grave? Yes, she drove off the bridge: ‘They say I’m going to be a big star. They’re making a movie about my life. And you’re going to play the starring part.’ “It’s the most gothic song on a goth album. Perhaps it’s a love song, or a dedication, to those driven over the edge.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Steve Kilbey (the Church; solo artist) on Lonely Stretch: “You could not find a more Australian song than Lonely Stretch. Have you ever been lost at night in the bush? It all looks the same. The imagination starts to play its tricks. Ghosts of your former darlings seem to appear and your headlights pierce the night to reveal … nothing! “A monstrous epic of a song, Martyn Casey’s engine-like bass propelling it all along. Dave McComb, if you’re out there listening somewhere, I declare this to be the most vivid, crucial, exciting Aussie song of all time. Oh man, one that I really wish I could have written myself. An absolute masterpiece.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mia Dyson (solo artist; Dyson/Stringer/Cloher) on Wide Open Road:“I heard Wide Open Road as a kid, totally free and dancing around the living room. Years later my dear friend Jen Cloher reintroduced me to it and I fell in love all over again. “It’s timeless, even though the production is very much of its time. It gives me the feeling that anything is possible and there’s a strength and defiance that I can carry with me as I navigate the endless forks in the road I encounter in my own life.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tamara Bell (guitarist, HITS) on Life of Crime: “This song aches, musically and lyrically, with those first young dalliances with lust – of desire’s convincing reassurance that giving in to it will reward a future brighter than any punishment. ‘I believe you will lead me to a life of crime’ is the utterance of the consentingly doomed. “The lyric ‘My chest burning, rising, falling’ just stabs me. It speaks of involuntary propulsion, addiction, and a lover’s regretful, inexorable abandonment of their better selves to whatever prize desire will yield, at whatever cost.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest From Slim Dusty to the Drones: around Australia in 12 classic songs David Bridie (Not Drowning, Waving; My Friend the Chocolate Cake) on Personal Things:“It’s not my favourite track off the record, but it has that Jacques Brel/Bertolt Brecht vibe that the Triffids occasionally tapped into, which I like – a slightly theatrical German cabaret feel. It’s got the cheesiest organ sound I’ve ever heard in my life, but the drums really kick it along. It’s like a waltz. I like the line ‘Some secrets of love you take to your bed, and others you take to your grave.’ “The album works as a whole. There’s all these characters and short stories that made up the whole collection.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Gareth Liddiard (the Drones, solo artist) on Stolen Property:“I sang this song for the Triffids gig [at the Perth international arts festival on 15 February]. It’s quite similar to what we would do because it runs on about three chords and then gets really abstract at the end. “There’s a shift halfway through that always sends chills down my spine, where Dave sings, ‘Maybe lost possessions, maybe stolen property.’ It’s Dave losing someone, but regaining himself – like he’s had to steal himself off someone. He’s not lashing out aggressively, but he’s taking a stand – he’s sort of telling this person off, saying, ‘You know what – you’re fucked!’”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “Evil” Graeme Lee (keyboards, pedal steel, the Triffids) on Tender Is the Night (the Long Fidelity) “I love the final part of that song, where he says, ‘Where you are, it will just be getting light.’ Which is an amazing way, in so few words, to say you’re not here, and I miss you.” (From Great Australian Albums documentary series.)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest • A 30th anniversary vinyl reissue of Born Sandy Devotional has been released by Domino Records.