An hour after the news broke, at 3.30am, Kate Corman stopped by David Bowie’s apartment on Lafayette Street in Soho, leaving a candle, flowers and a note – “Thank you David. May the Gods bless us all” – the first offerings for a makeshift memorial to a rock’n’roll chameleon. “First Lou Reed, now David Bowie,” Corman said. “It’s so sad. Unbelievable. New York is really over now.”At Puck Fair, a bar over the road from Bowie’s apartment that the singer frequented, barman Dave Farragher blasted a string of hits – Jean Genie, Let’s Dance and Heroes. Couples drunkenly swayed in their grief. “It’s hard to put into words what he gave us in his songs,” said late-night drinker Bill Marlborough. “If you don’t feel it, I can’t explain.”David Bowie: legendary rock star dies of cancer aged 69 – latest updates The news came late at night for most but too early for the morning rush of news crews that would eventually arrive at Bowie’s apartment, which was not perhaps as well-known as the Dakota was for John Lennon or CBGB was for Joey Ramone. In fact, while Bowie had chosen New York as his home, his absence from daily life meant he was only peripherally considered a New Yorker.Jessica Glenza (@JessicaGlenza)At David Bowie's home in Soho, where the mood is solemn. One man just walked through and shouted "Arise Lazarus!" pic.twitter.com/7Sv0l8trR5January 11, 2016With neat tributes gradually collecting on the doorstep, even Bowie’s doorman said he had had little inkling of the singer’s declining condition. In fact, the front door was one Bowie rarely used, preferring to slip in and out of his home using a side entrance. As dawn broke, 52-year-old British visitor Mark Sands said he ‎was devastated to learn of the singer’s death. “He was a role model for people everywhere but we definitely felt like we owned him. We grew up with him. He did it all, totally out there, transitioning from character to character, doing stuff that no one else was doing.” Asked about rumours of failing health, many fans said they’d heard them but had not given them weight. “We were concerned but we thought he’d go on forever,” said Michelle Lynn, who first saw the singer on his 1975 Station to Station tour. A single bunch of pink carnations lay outside the theatre where Bowie’s musical, Lazarus, is currently playing a few blocks north, on East 4th Street.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   People pay tribute to David Bowie at his New York apartment. Photograph: Jessica Glenza for the GuardianAs the day wore on, the tributes – and the styles of those who offered them – grew more elaborate. Tash Kouri, a 28-year-old fan, came to the memorial in silver shoes and with glitter around her eyes to lay a photo of Bowie in a yellow suit at the memorial. “I wanted to be in drag today, to cry on the 4 train,” she said. “Just last night I was on a road trip with my friends, listening to Rock ’n’ Roll Suicide and telling them how much strength it gave me,” she said of the Ziggy Stardust track. “He was definitely my patron saint.” David Bowie: the man who thrilled the world Parisian fashion designer Ariane Leondaridas, 30, said she had seen Bowie in the neighborhood two or three times, sometimes in a nearby restaurant, Bottega Falai. “At his height, he had incredible looks and wild style, but when I saw him he always looked understated and chic. He just looked like an older Englishman dressed smartly with a plaid [checked] scarf. He was hiding in plain sight.”Greg Petan, an artist who lives in the Soho area, came to leave a copy of 1974’s David Live among flowers and candles at the artist’s home.Jessica Glenza (@JessicaGlenza)One man leaves a copy of 1974 record David Live, says "It's in the title." pic.twitter.com/PE5AUKqt3zJanuary 11, 2016“It’s in the title, I guess,” he said regarding why he chose the record. “Gratefully, through the medium of recorded music people can live forever.”At Bottega Falai, the cafe that Bowie frequented, owner Danilo Durante said the singer was a regular customer until two months ago, when he abruptly stopped coming in. He said the singer typically ordered the strawberry sfogliatelle and prosciutto di Parma sandwich. “We had no sense he was sick. But you could tell he liked to be low profile, maybe because his job was to be the opposite.” Like many‎ people, Durante wondered if Bowie’s recently released album Blackstar was a final message. “I was thinking everything was OK but I guess he knew it was his farewell.” 