Previously-unpublished diaries of a friend and early patron of Francis Bacon have been discovered, offering significant new insights into the life of the artist long before his genius was widely recognised.They challenge myths about Bacon’s early life, including the painter’s own claims about his “loveless” family, shed light on his work as a designer of rugs and furniture, and reveal an unrecorded painting of “three horses jumping in a circus”.Little is known about the author of the diaries, Eric Allden, save that he bought some of Bacon’s first works and lived with him in the early 1930s. Allden had been an intelligence officer and an attache at the British embassy in Peking before meeting Bacon by chance in 1929 on a cross-Channel ferry. Bacon was 19, some 23 years his junior, but they struck up a close friendship.James Norton, a research assistant on a major Bacon biography, discovered 33 handwritten volumes of Allden’s diaries in private hands in London.He reveals his find in the January issue of the art journal the Burlington Magazine, before the biography’s 2017 publication. He writes that Bacon’s beginnings as an artist are obscure partly because of the myths that he created, and that the diaries and other discoveries by the biographers “recast our understanding of [his] early life … including Bacon’s claim that he was estranged early on from his family”.Bacon’s father, a retired army major, was said to have been repulsed by his son’s burgeoning homosexuality, and to have thrown him out of the house after catching him in his mother’s clothes. Norton observes that Bacon rarely spoke of his father, except in the most disparaging terms, but the diaries show that a definitive rupture between the two was false. There are other significant differences to those found in existing biographies”, he says.In 1929, Allden described an idyllic holiday in Ireland with Bacon, his parents and two younger sisters: “He is simply delighted because his mother has … rented a cottage … for the whole of September [near] the house they have taken … He wants me to remain all the time he is there and is quite ecstatic … We shall take plenty of books and lead a simple life.”Shortly after their first meeting, Allden wrote: “His people live in Ireland, County Kildare, and he told me that when he was 16 he ran away to Paris, but was brought back, though soon after he was permitted to return there.”That entry records a visit to see Bacon at his Knightsbridge home, shared with his loyal childhood nanny. Allden describes Bacon as having “a most original mind, intensely modern and futurist in art”.Bacon asked Allden to stay for dinner, he writes. “I like this boy, who is extremely intelligent, but he has the complexion of a girl, with big blue eyes and long lashes. He is really too pretty for a boy, and his ways are rather effeminate.”Of their initial meeting on the ferry, Allden wrote: “On deck sat beside a young fellow who spoke to me. He told me he was starting a shop in London for ultra modern furniture and was going to Paris to purchase examples. His name was Francis Bacon.”Bacon never did open a shop. After a long struggle, the self-taught artist found recognition with masterpieces that convey the pain of human existence. More than two decades after his death, he is widely regarded as the greatest British painter since Turner. His 1969 painting, Three Studies of Lucian Freud, sold for a record $142m (£100m) in 2013.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Francis Bacon triptych Three Studies of Lucian Freud sets auction recordAllden, who died aged 62 in 1949, sensed Bacon’s artistic promise, buying his first three paintings and several rugs, including one that Bacon wanted to give him. “I wouldn’t hear of it … He is such a generous, loving boy.”He did, however, struggle with some of Bacon’s painted subjects. “I can’t say that I care about the rather gruesome distortions of heads, bodies etc.”Other art references include a National Gallery visit. Bacon “wanted to see the Piero della Francesca Nativity as he had heard a lecture on the wireless say it was composed of a series of cubes”. Later, in 1933, he wrote: “He is mad about Grünewald’s paintings and the German primitive school, and Michelangelo, whom I remember he rather despised at one time.”The nature of Bacon and Allden’s relationship is never made explicit, writes Norton. “Allden often describes separate sleeping arrangements … Although the relationship may not have been sexual, there were evidently strong bonds of feeling on both sides.”Further entries are being held back for the biography, written by Mark Stevens and Annalyn Swan. “We’re thrilled with the diary,” Stevens said. “Information on Bacon’s early years in London is somewhat thin … and comes mostly from Bacon himself. The diary … helps fill out the life.”