What’s the name of this show? Game of SilenceIs this somehow related to Game of Thrones? No.Then why is it called Game of Silence? Maybe that’s how NBC is going to trick us into watching shows in the future. This fall stay tuned for The Walking Silence, Orange Is the New Silence, and the movie adaptation Deuce Bigelow Male Silence. When does this show premiere? Tuesday 12 April at 10pm EST on NBC after The Voice. Then it settles into its regular time slot on Thursdays at 10pm EST. Is this show about silence? No. It’s about four friends in Texas in the late 80s who get sent to Quitman juvenile detention center after injuring a woman while they were joyriding in a stolen car. They endure awful things there. Decades later when they’re all adults, the meekest of the group, Boots (Derek Phillips), runs into one of the guards unexpectedly and beats the crap out of him. Now the gang has to get back together to make sure Boots doesn’t go to prison and they can get revenge on everyone who wronged them in Quitman. What sort of atrocities did they endure in Quitman? They’re forced to cage fight the other boys, they’re robbed and harassed by the guards, one of them is forced to attend the warden’s “special parties”, and one kid is killed when he is covered in chemical burns and the warden won’t send him to the hospital because the chemicals they were using are illegal.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Is this a Dickens novel? It’s more of a pulp story because it doesn’t have the depth or social import of Dickens. Let’s not forget that the warden lets a riot happen so that the prison can be privatized and he can profit from it. This is all so ludicrous that it’s hard to take the rest of the show seriously. What happens in the premiere? Boots beats up the guard and his best friends, hot-headed Gil (Michael Raymond-James) and chill Shawn (Larenz Tate), call up their old friend Jackson (David Lyons) who is now a big-shot defense attorney who left the rest of them and their blue-collar upbringing behind. They force him to be Boots’s lawyer and of course they all get together and drink beer and catch up. Jackson’s first love Jessie (Bre Blair) who is now Gil’s girlfriend, even appears. Then Boots dies in prison and the guard he beat up is murdered too. It might have something to do with that pesky warden Roy Carroll (Conor O’Farrell). Wait, that warden is still around? Yes, he’s now lieutenant governor of Texas and is running for a seat in Congress. How does someone go from a warden at juvie to being lieutenant governor? Apparently lots of ties to organized crime. More importantly, how does a dirty warden with ties to the mob get elected and no one digs up this dirt? What’s good about this show? The performances are stellar, I will give them that, but the characters are stereotypes rather than real people. For instance Gil wants to charge in guns blazing and get revenge on all the former guards. Cautious Jackson wants to be cautious and build a case against them so that the law will win. Of course that’s how it works. The women are poorly drawn, especially Jessie and Jackson’s fiancé (and boss at the law firm) Marina (Claire van der Boom) and the detective on the case Liz Winters (Deidrie Henry). There are also several mysteries going on at any given time and the question of who may or may not be responsible for a string of murders keeps shifting in interesting ways. Game of Silence does not hold back on the throttle, which is one of the best things about it.What are the bad things about it? Oh, there are myriad. This is the kind of show where men scream “I’m talking about justice!” and “All I ever wanted was to protect you!” in all seriousness.The biggest problem is that Game of Silence doesn’t seem to take place in the real world but in some TV land where all of these ludicrous elements can come together to try to form a convincing whole. The problem is that it has a sincerity that doesn’t allow the craziness to be fun like it is on Empire or Scandal. Instead it just keeps viewers from caring about anything that might happen to these characters or the conclusion of the mysteries. While the briskness is enjoyable, there is just something about all the tired elements here – the old friends unraveling mysteries of their past, the flashbacks, the lost lady love who is now with an old friend – that just seem incredibly stale. Should I watch this show? No. Since there is so little silence in the actual show, I think that is the reception it should get instead. 