There are no cards in the shops to remind you. You have to wait till late on Sunday to catch her on Skype, as her special day is just beginning – and your weekend is sleepily ending.For the 1.2 million Brits like me who live in Australia, UK Mother’s Day – this Sunday – is an odd day. Australian Mother’s Day is two months away, so empathy from your Aussie mates is understandably limited. But my own feelings are conflicted. I feel a longing for her. A cloak of guilt for not being there, not taking her out for a Toby Carvery Sunday lunch; our staple. Yet I feel slightly indulgent for feeling any of this – after all, I chose to live here – as far away from her as is humanly possible.Make a sushi 'bouquet' for Mother's Day: ‘Great fun if you like shouting at children’ I didn’t, of course, choose the distance deliberately. That’s one of the sacrifices I made by coming here for “maybe two years and see if I like it”. Five years later, I’m settled. But I own my choice and I thank God (Steve Jobs) for smartphones, Whatsapp and Skype. I can still see her. Compliment her on her new ’do. Tell her it’s high time for a new Primark dressing gown.The image of her at Heathrow the day I left sometimes torments me. She stood up impulsively mid-way through breakfast with me and Dad – they’d divorced years earlier – and walked down that busy airport corridor. We looked on, perplexed. I can still hear the clink of her canteen cutlery on the plate. Still feel the warm steam from her half-eaten hash brown. Still smell her discarded half-drunk tea. And still see her small shoulders 20m away from behind, gently bobbing: an attempt to hide her sobbing. She wanted this day to be about me, not her. But we both knew something uncomfortable: I may never return to live in the UK permanently. Neither of us said it. I saw she knew it.Little did I know then that’d be the penultimate time I’d ever see my dad, who died suddenly while I was here. My distance added a layer of grief to the already complex reactions to the death of a divorced parent. Arranging a funeral, eulogy, death certificate, probate, bill closure, inheritance tax – it’s difficult on a two-week visit. It would have been impossible without a dutifully supportive mum. But Mum wouldn’t appreciate the gush. Her distaste for saccharine mawkishness is my own inheritance tax from her. Mum is the funniest person I’ve met. I’ve spent my life seeking her approval through trying to make her laugh. But it always works better the other way around. Her humour is deliciously inappropriate.Like the time she entered me into a fancy dress competition at Pontins, a downmarket (but fun!) UK holiday camp. She put me in black trousers and shoes, greased my hair back, no top – just a boy’s clip-on bow tie. Baby oil on my tiny chest. When asked what I’d come as, by the holiday rep, mum mouthed me our rehearsed line: “You’re a chip-en-dale.” (For the unacquainted, Chippendales were tawdry male strippers.) I was seven.   ‘The ghost of your Gran!’: Gary Nunn’s mum in a fat suit for Halloween. Photograph: Gary NunnFancy dress is when her self-deprecating humour is at its most resplendent. One Halloween, she squashed through the door in an enormous inflatable fat suit. “What have you come as?” I gasped. “The ghost of your gran!” she responded. Gran (her mum) was unapologetically fond of marzipan cake and would’ve been on her knees wheezing through laughter snorts like me, had she still been alive.Truth is, I haven’t been been able to stop thinking about my mum since a mother rejected her son for being gay on the Australian reality show Bride & Prejudice. That mother’s hostility awoke my anger, but also my gratitude. I thought about Mum accompanying me on my first gay pride march in Leicester, as other mums from FFLAG carried signs saying “Everyone has the right to love and be loved”, and “I’m proud of my gay son.” She yanked me into her tightly, and wept. It was a moment that’d come after a bumpy journey for us both, and required no words.I remembered the time, on a plane, when mum interrupted a man making loud homophobic remarks: “My son is gay!” – the terrifyingly monosyllabic rebuke silencing the homophobe. When she relayed it, I burnt with quiet pride. When mum wasn’t showing affection through comedy, she was demonstrating love through protective anger. Never will I forget the envelope fat with epistolary promise that arrived at my university halls. It contained just eight handwritten words – of pure gold. She’d enclosed a press cutting about the flooding of my local gay pub, The Riverside Tavern – one we’d frequented. The article included a slightly dramatic quote from the landlord, claiming this was the worst thing that’d ever happened and how things would never be the same (the pub re-opened a fortnight later). Bright yellow highlighter drew me to his quote and a biro-drawn arrow led to: “You can tell he’s a queen, can’t you!”It wasn’t until my dad died that I outpoured my gratitude to him in a Guardian piece. I’m determined not to allow thousands of miles stop me from thanking Mum before it’s too late.Happy UK Mother’s Day, Lee Nunn. Thanks for making me laugh. And loving me for who I really am. Excuse the gush. You can tell I’m a queen, can’t you.