“Call me cynical but what can us doing this change?” asked Nick Hancock at the start of Famous, Rich and Homeless, pre-empting the question in every viewer’s mind. Whether four celebrities (Hancock, Julia Bradbury, Willie Thorne, and Kim Woodburn) “swapping fame and fortune for a life on the streets” in aid of Sport Relief will do anything for Britain’s homelessness crisis aside, last night’s opening episode of the BBC two-parter was shockingly effective. This particular corner of reality TV – let’s call it Celebrities Raising Awareness Programming (Crap) – always risks being a blend of both patronising and entirely pointless. Almost 15 years on, I still get night sweats over Celebrity Blind Man’s Buff (in which Gail Porter crossed a busy road blindfolded) and Celebrity Wheelchair Challenge (in which Gaby Roslin crossed the country with her legs strapped together). On paper, celebrities getting exposure for “playing” at how thousands of ordinary human beings live is the epitome of showbiz self-indulgence. Now, as the comparatively gentle early days of Celebrity Big Brother degenerate into literal bone-breaker The Jump (“It’s the most dangerous show on television!”), viewers also seem to have less-than-innocent motives. If we didn’t find some sadistic entertainment in removing celebs from luxury only to deprive them of food and shelter – and literally put them through trials – I’m a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here wouldn’t be a staple in ITV’s schedule. Still, when a former Towie star eats a live spider, no one’s pretending it’s part of a wider socio-political purpose. But as John Bird – Big Issue founder and “overseer and adviser” on Famous, Rich, and Homeless – put it: “This experiment has to show how godawful it is to be on the streets. And how your life changes, your health changes, your character changes, your body changes.”'Every day is a struggle': rough sleeping on the rise in London For the most part, Bird got his wish. The hour contained the usual talk of motivation and comforts they’d miss (Bradbury listed every bit of the breakfast she’d eaten before leaving) and gave us the hoped-for celebrity flounce. “I just need a little bit of time off … somewhere I can have a kip,” says Thorne at one point, entirely missing the point.But it gave a genuinely raw impression of what it’s like to live on the streets of London: the sense of hostility, indignity, futility (Bradbury tried to get space at a hostel but couldn’t because she didn’t have ID) and the unflinching inequality (ongoing shots of the Gherkin and high-rise apartments). But what’s perhaps most interesting about Famous, Rich and Homeless is that the series first ran in 2009 – a year before austerity and cuts in everything from housing benefit, mental health support services, debt advice centres to homelessness prevention projects. As the opening line of last night’s programme told the viewer, homelessness in the UK has soared in five years (the number of rough sleepers on any one night across England has doubled since David Cameron became prime minister).If you read a decent newspaper, you probably already know this. The Guardian is currently running a series on the rough sleeping crisis. But there’s an argument that – if the aim is indeed awareness – a celebrity vehicle on primetime BBC1 is a pragmatic way to reach people who wouldn’t typically notice.When Woodburn announces that “some people just don’t want to work and they’ll always be homeless. I’ve got no time for them”, it’s clear even some of the participants hold the very myths the show is trying to shed: what led people there, the deficit in available support, that this really could happen to any of us.“We’ve all come from a life at home,” says Thorne, when he tries to justify leaving to find a hotel. As Step, a 58-year-old homeless man – who once had a business, wife, and children – tells him: “Yeah, so have I.” 