Never has an attraction promised so much yet delivered so little. It was the roller coaster without a ride, the helter skelter without a slide, a £20m mountain of steel leering above London’s lean Olympic stadium as a mocking monument to the vanity of the city’s former mayor, Boris Johnson, and its funder, the steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal.Designed by artist Anish Kapoor and engineer Cecil Balmond, the ArcelorMittal Orbit was conceived as a money-making machine, intended to reap £1.2m a year for the upkeep of the Olympic park. Instead it has cost the taxpayer £10,000 a week to maintain. Of all of Johnson’s follies, from the empty Thames cable car to the overheating bus, it has been the most useless totem pole of mayoral hubris. In a delirious red blur … you catch bleary glimpses of Olympic-scape before plunging into darkness around hairpin bends But when you’re hurtling down through the structure’s contorted loops on the new corkscrew slide that opens this weekend, all this can be momentarily forgiven.All that steel, which the engineers of the neighbouring stadium worked so hard to avoid using, shoots by in a delirious red blur. The awkward marriage of Kapoor’s tangled structure, that clunky staircase, the lift and boxy corporate entertaining suite dissolve in a dizzying 40-second thrill ride. As Guy de Maupassant said of the Eiffel Tower, being inside the Orbit is the best place to be – because it’s the only place you don’t have to look at it.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Downward spiral … Oliver Wainwright going down the slide. Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianThrough transparent sections of the slide’s roof, you catch bleary glimpses of the surrounding Olympic-scape, before plunging into darkness and jolting around 12 hairpin bends at speeds of up to 15mph (which feels much faster, believe me).You see the bulging roof of Zaha Hadid’s swimming pool, the thicket of Stratford’s tacky apartment towers, the gilded souks of Westfield, the skeletal stadium, all whisked up in a woozy cocktail, before you’re spat out at the bottom. It brings back the thrill of the Games – that one moment when the nation suspended cynicism over this £12bn regeneration project – in a brief white-knuckle gulp. Carsten Höller: ‘It is impossible to travel down a slide without smiling’ Billed as the longest and tallest tunnel slide in the world, it is the most extreme work yet of Belgian artist Carsten Höller, a research scientist turned purveyor of slides to major global art institutions since 1998. For Höller, who first brought his steel spirals to London at Tate Modern in 2006, and attached a pair of corkscrews to the front of the Hayward Gallery last year, the slides are an experiment in letting go.They are, he says, a way of propelling visitors into a state of “simultaneous delight, madness and voluptuous panic”. This last bit is a quote from the French writer Roger Caillois, who in the 1950s described sliding as “surrendering to a kind of spasm, seizure, or shock which destroys reality with sovereign brusqueness”.When you’re 76 metres up in the air above Stratford, kitted out with the obligatory elbow protectors and padded hat, then ceremonially stuffed into a sack and left peering into the gaping steel tube, the brusqueness certainly bites. And the ride doesn’t disappoint.At £17 a go, this is no cheap thrill, especially in the context of three of London’s poorest boroughs.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Spasm, seizure, shock’ … Anish Kapoor’s ArcelorMittal Orbit, adorned by Carsten Höller’s slide.The ticket price is part of an effort to make this white elephant’s hopeless business plan stack up. Projected to receive 350,000 visitors annually, less than half that number came last year. Abseiling was introduced in 2014, at £85 a pop, but that did little to help balance the books, nor did corporate events help. The view from the top of the tower, even with Kapoor’s funfair hall of mirrors, simply wasn’t enough of a draw. You see pretty much the same from the John Lewis luggage department nearby. And that has a cafe.When the plan for the slide was first mooted, Kapoor was blunt. “The mayor foisted this on the project, and kind of insisted,” he said. “It felt to me as if it was turning the whole thing in the wrong direction.” Now he claims to be “delighted with the collaboration”. Never has an artist been commissioned to add a sticking plaster to another artist’s failed work in such a public manner, even if Johnson jovially compared the situation to being “like Bernini adorning the work of Michelangelo”.The truth, according to a source close to the project, is that Boris had been keen on a slide from the very beginning, when he first dreamt up the plan for an Olympic tower, fearing the flat-pack stadium might lack the wow-factor he desired. Alongside Kapoor, he invited two other artists to submit ideas, including Antony Gormley, who proposed a gigantic model of himself through which visitors could clamber, and the architects Caruso St John, who came up with a vertical seaside pier. Designed with artist Eva Rothschild and curated by Jeremy Deller, it would have been a kiss-me-quick ascent of palm-reading and fish and chips, telescopes and fairy lights, easy to dismantle and recycle after the Olympics. But however much the mayor pleaded for a slide, no one played ball. The entrants preferred to occupy the higher pedestal of art than funfair attraction.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Constructing Anish Kapoor’s Orbit: time-lapse filmFive years on, Höller’s £3m slide has finally given this knotted steel monster a use. It will pay itself back in five years, in the optimistic dreams of the London Legacy Development Corporation. But what if it doesn’t? Might it become the fantastical testing ground for a succession of ever more lurid spectacles of public art? They could commission Jeff Koons to cover it in flowers, or Christo to wrap it up so we no longer have to see it.Why every British landmark would be improved by a slide In tougher times, hated public art was simply pulled down. When John Nash erected a 20-metre pillar in Kings Cross, topped with a statue of George IV, it was damned as a “Doric monstrosity”. As the Home Counties magazine put it: “The whole was such an execrable performance that ridicule killed it”. Perhaps that might eventually be kinder fate than letting this reviled zombie-pylon stagger on. It contains enough steel to make 265 double-decker buses, trumpets the promotional blurb. It’s hard not to think that might have been a better use for it.The Slide at the ArcelorMittal Orbit, Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, London, is open from 24 June