Glastonbury 7.30pm, BBC4Another year on Worthy Farm, and whether or not you’re aggrieved at the thunderingly uninspiring one-two punch of Adele and Coldplay as Saturday and Sunday night headliners (with pomp rockers Muse heading up tonight), there will doubtless be plenty of other noteworthy action via BBC2 and BBC4’s extensive coverage. The latter seems to have the pick of the performances, from veteran ravers Underworld to hirsute rock pensioners ZZ Top. Ben Arnold Oscar Pistorius: The Interview9pm, ITVThe former athlete gives his account of what happened on Valentine’s Day 2013, when he shot and killed Reeva Steenkamp. Speaking while awaiting sentencing after being convicted of murder, Pistorius takes questions and discusses his relationship with his former girlfriend, allegations of previous abuse and his use of firearms. Mark Williams-Thomas asks the questions. The Steenkamp family declined to take part. Jonathan WrightBarging Round Britain With John Sergeant 8pm, ITVThis is, obviously, straight out of the Alan Partridge brainstorm school of TV commissioning, but Sergeant’s narrowboat odyssey is nevertheless blearily charming. Tonight, in the final episode of the second series, Sergeant navigates Regent’s canal in London, once the main arterial network that linked the East End’s docks to the rest of Britain. Includes gin-making, giraffe-feeding and a potted history of the Ragged Schools. Andrew MuellerGlastonbury 2016 quiz – how well do you know the world's greatest festival? The Last Leg In, The Last Leg Out9pm, Channel 4It’s probably not bet-hedging to suggest the last leggers lean more towards Team Remain, given the EU’s anti-discrimination law for people with disabilities, and the sort of European social funding that last year saw 87,000 British disabled people helped towards employment. So now the EU referendum vote has been decisively cast, what will hosts Adam Hills, Alex Brooker and Josh Widdicombe – and a special guest – make of it all? Ali CatterallThe Graham Norton Show 10.55pm, BBC1Graham Norton is the master of pulling in the big guests and treating them to his charm, irreverence and sauce. This week he’s joined by the inimitable Patsy and Edina (Joanna Lumley and Jennifer Saunders) for the release of Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie. Australian fun-bomb Rebel Wilson completes a lineup of witty women. There’s also audience participation and music from sinewy rock cockroach Iggy Pop. Hannah VerdierAnimals 12.20am, Sky AtlanticA double helping of HBO’s animated comedy. Stricken squirrels Phil, Mike and April continue their quest to escape an overturned tree, but it’s not without its complications. Meanwhile, far below the surface, a Paris Hilton-esque queen ant slums it among worker drones. Next up, the season finale features the Liam Neeson of turkeys: a gobbler determined to exact vengeance on those who sentenced his wife to a Thanksgiving fate. Mark Gibbings-JonesUnforgettable9pm, Sky LivingCarrie Wells is a ball-busting NYC detective with a husky voice and a ferocious betting habit. She is also blessed/cursed with a photographic personal memory. In this unusually scenic episode of a daffy procedural, Wells (Poppy Montgomery) and her partner Burns (Nip/Tuck’s Dylan Walsh) embark on a road trip to Florida, escorting an antsy, blender-obsessed witness due to testify in a federal case. Saturday Night Live veteran Rachel Dratch also guest-stars. Graeme VirtueSPORTOne-Day Cricket: England v Sri Lanka 1.30pm, Sky Sports 2. Second ODI from Edgbaston. Can England maintain the dominance they showed in the Tests?Snooker: Riga Open 6pm, Eurosport 1. The first European Tour event of the season reaches its climax.Challenge Cup Rugby League: Warrington Wolves v Widnes Vikings 7.30pm, BBC2. The second quarter-final at the Halliwell Jones Stadium.FILM CHOICE      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Parker Posey and Joaquin Phoenix in Irrational Man. Photograph: Sabrina Lantos/ACMIIrrational Man (Woody Allen, 2015) 9.15am, 6.15pm, Sky Movies PremiereJoaquin Phoenix’s philosophy prof Abe Lucas is a jaded, alcoholic libertine whose latest affairs involve science lecturer Rita (Parker Posey) and student Jill (Emma Stone). So far, so cliched, but Abe confronts a real-life existential crisis when he decides to commit a more-or-less motiveless murder. The film, however, remains the kind of patchy product churned out by the late-career Woody Allen.