The Today programme presenter Justin Webb writes in this week’s Radio Times that he has finally joined “the flatscreen brigade”. But he waited until his wife was away before buying his 65in TV set, and she has so far spurned its delights in favour of a good book. “Even if I’d traded in our 10-year-old people carrier for a downpayment on an E-type Jaguar, the move wouldn’t have been so freighted with social and cultural baggage,” he writes. “TV, in Britain, is the last refuge of the snob.” Webb is right: our changing attitudes to the TV set tell us much about the shifting symbolism of social distinctions. When BBC television began broadcasting, in the 1930s, no such snobbery existed because television was a London and middle-class phenomenon. The evening schedules did not even start until 9pm, to accommodate the late-dining metropolitan bourgeoisie. They would finish eating about 15 minutes beforehand, gather in the sitting room with coffee and cigarettes, and wait for the valves of the set to warm up, with the same air of expectancy they might feel in the theatre.BBC TV chief: source of mumbling problem is 'incredibly hard' to isolate Snobbery about television began to suffuse British cultural life only when it became a mass cultural form, in the mid-1950s. In 1957 Eric James, high master of Manchester grammar school, proclaimed: “Over my dead body will a television set for looking at and listening to the BBC, and still more, for looking at ITV, enter the school.”Television abstainers looked askance at the H-shaped television aerials that were sprouting on roofs in working-class areas. “We used to say that the people who dropped their aitches put them up above their houses,” recalled the playwright Peter Nichols.Many on the left worried that television would induce apathy and impoverished cultural literacy in the working classes. On BBC radio’s The Brains Trust in April 1960, Dennis Potter forecast that the 21st century would be dominated by “21in television screens in every room and the constant throbbing of commerce”.By the 1970s, when almost everyone had a television, class anxieties began to attach to what kind of set you had, in a move that Freud would surely have described as a case of the narcissism of minor differences. As colour licences now outnumbered monochrome ones, a black-and-white set signified a certain kind of middle-class asceticism. Colour televisions were also called in as evidence of the spendthrift habits of the underclass. In 1976, a press campaign against welfare “scroungers”, supported by the right-wing Tory MP Iain Sproat, accused them of wasting their handouts on colour TVs.Urban myths flourished: immigrants were meant to be buying colour TVs with social security vouchers because the sets had stands and doors that allowed them to be classed as furniture; those on supplementary benefit supposedly got grants for colour TVs as “essential” household items.Some of the same class prejudices now attach to big TVs, and for similar reasons: in an age of austerity, they have crossed over from being a luxury item into a symbol of ordinary affluence; but they are still pricey enough to inspire judgments about the feckless financial choices of others. In an interview with the Radio Times in 2013, Jamie Oliver said that he could not understand why the poorest families chose to eat “chips and cheese out of Styrofoam containers” while sitting in a room with a “massive fucking TV”. Colour televisions were called in as evidence of the spendthrift habits of the underclass Half a century of consumer populism has largely rid us of any condescension towards television itself. But while the middle classes readily embrace the latest tablets and phones, a residual stigma attaches to the mammoth TV mounted on the wall. It is as if an outsized screen betokens both profligacy and passivity, a succumbing to a virtual life – like the cave dwellers in Plato’s Republic, turning their backs on the cold light of the world in favour of their own illusory reality created by the silhouette of a fire playing on the back wall.But people with a limited budget buy big TVs for perfectly rational reasons. The cornucopia of entertainment and spectacle they offer represents amazing value for money. The amount of electricity required for a television set is small, so even after you have paid for the set, the licence fee and maybe a satellite subscription, it is still vastly cheaper than going out. Along one wall of a living room, the world is now blown up into filigree detail – enough to see the sweat beads on a Premiership footballer, the subtlest browns and reds of autumn on nature programmes, and huge talking heads with every blemish visible, like the giant faces of the Brobdingnagians as seen by Gulliver.All through its history, the TV set was meant to be divorcing the masses from real life; in fact it has reintroduced us to the world and made us see it anew.