Their faces look back at us from the abyss. Faces of the doomed. In photographs of British soldiers on the eve of the Battle of the Somme, which started 100 years ago on 1 July 1916, we see men who are about to die or suffer appalling wounds. The British army suffered 57,470 casualties on the first day of the Somme, including 19,240 men killed.Letters of fallen Somme soldiers released to mark battle's centenary So here is truly an anniversary to stop in silence for, and the sadness of the Somme goes beyond the politics that currently divide us. Or does it? When published in the Daily Mail, these pictures are not what they seem. They appear to give us an uncannily close encounter with young men who about to die, as Wilfred Owen put it, “like cattle” – yet in reality they are a peculiar kind of fiction.The original photographs from which the Mail created its picture story are in black and white. Of course they are – this was 1916. So instead of asking readers to make the imaginative leap into the other country that is the past, the paper has changed them, updated them, distorted them. The pictures, it reveals, have been “specially coloured-up in astonishing detail for the Daily Mail”. To colourise an old photograph or film is to falsify it. The rosy cheeks are not theirs. The hair colour is not theirs. The effect is to create the illusion that it all happened just yesterday, that we know how these men felt.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   British soldiers wearing German helmets. Photograph: Richard van EmdenAnd it’s more specific than that. Like so many first world war commemorations – from the poppies at the Tower of London, one for every British and Commonwealth soldier killed between 1914 and 1918, but not a single one for the German, French, American, Russian, Austrian or Italian dead, to the flood of books written from a little-England perspective by Max Hastings or Brexiteer historian Andrew Roberts – these doctored photos urge us to empathise only with “our” troops.Given where we now are, an island as never before, it is impossible to see such patriotic commemorations as either an innocent reflection on history, or a sentimental sideshow. Instead, the cult of Britain’s first world war dead is part of the same introspective cultural lurch that saw a vote to leave Europe and curb immigration: part of the death of internationalist Britain.It’s worth looking a bit closer at the way the Mail uses those pictures of doomed youth. “Heartbreaking photos of our troops”, declares the headline, gently reminding readers to see these images patriotically. The Somme, it goes on to say, was “the bloodiest battle in British history”. The day after having these happy pictures taken, our boys would go over the top “to be met by a hail of German machine-gun fire that mowed down half of them”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Soldiers dwarfed by a crater, in a photo also taken from Richard van Emden’s book. Photograph: Richard van EmdenThe article gives the British casualties, but not those of other nations. By August 1916, the German army would also suffer 250,000 casualties. The Somme was called “the muddy grave of the German field army” by Captain von Hentig, a German officer who witnessed it. Worse, and typical of the way that Brexit Britain is determined to misremember the first world war, there is no attempt to contextualise what happened. So all our brave Tommies marched into those evil German machine guns. In fact, every battle on the western front worked in a similar way. The reason this war was so murderous had nothing to do with German wickedness. It was a tragic irony of technological development. The war broke out at the exact moment when weaponry was so rapid-firing and powerful that traditional infantry tactics failed, while new kinds of mobile warfare had yet to be developed. So armies got stuck in the same trenches for years and whenever one side attacked, the defenders had the advantage. Advancing German armies were mown down just as lethally as advancing British and French ones.‘The roaring of the shells was diabolical.’ It was zero hour on the Somme History means trying to understand the past, but Britain has decided to see it not as a global tragedy that binds us with our fellow Europeans, but solely as a heroic British tale. It has become a way to reinforce the new and ugly sense that Europe is alien. These falsely colourised pictures are a land reducing its own history to a hollow patriotic fiction. 