Dorothy Wordsworth never intended her four small notebooks to become a classic of memoir and nature writing, or even that they would be read by anyone beyond herself and her brother William. But it is a great boon that we can read her Grasmere Journal; a record of life in England’s Lake District that is grand in language, but subdued in tone.William and Dorothy Wordsworth moved to Grasmere in 1799, living in Dove Cottage until 1808. Dorothy’s journals document their quiet existence: daily walks, afternoons with mutton pies, William’s headaches. The siblings composed poems and letters as they walked through miles of hills and thickets; on occasion visited by friends like Walter Scott, Thomas de Quincey, Samuel Taylor Coleridge. In a 1797 letter, Coleridge described Dorothy’s taste as “a perfect electrometer — it bends, protrudes, and draws in at subtlest beauties and most recondite faults.” Consider her description of daffodils near Gowbarrow Park: I never saw daffodils so beautiful. They grew about the mossy stones about and about them, some rested their heads upon these stones as on a pillow for weariness and the rest tossed and reeled and danced and seemed as if they verily laughed with the wind that blew upon them over the lake.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A page from Georgia Bennett’s sketchbook for The Grasmere Journal. Photograph: Georgie Bennett from The Folio Society edition of The Grasmere JournalReading the Grasmere journals is frustrating for a modern reader: with all the beauty and skill demonstrated in the book, Dorothy stayed unrecognised in the shadow of her famous older brother. She is cast into the same pejorative stereotype so many Victorian women are: not very beautiful, especially once the teeth went; alternatively a virgin, asexual or a lesbian – De Quincey hinted all three at various points; a bit of an oddball labelled as both being a “creature apart” above love and sex, and of being in love with her own brother. Reading the journals, its hard to equate the passionate woman who cried with happiness at seeing her garden after a period trapped indoors by sickness, as an inhuman creature incapable of emotion or love.Artist Georgie Bennett had not heard of Dorothy Wordsworth before being asked to illustrate a new edition of the Grasmere Journal for the Folio Society (“I remember learning a little about William at school, but I don’t think she was mentioned, which is a shame”) and had only been to the Lake District once before. Returning to see the landscapes described firsthand revealed new beauty in the landscape: “The most remarkable element has got to be the light – the light and colour across the Lake District is incredibly beautiful and the way the lakes mirror the fells and valleys is stunning. You can really see why [they] are so intimately associated with the Romantic period and why the Wordsworths chose this place to make their home … the whole mood of the landscape can change dramatically with the weather. Dorothy describes this changing of the seasons with such sensitivity.”Bennett walked in Dorothy’s footsteps across the Lake District, through Grasmere village and to all the locations her journal describes: the church, the lake, the island, Dove Cottage. She explored Rydal – “where Dorothy would often go to send and receive letters” – as well as Grisedale Tarn, marked now as the spot where Dorothy and William last saw their brother, John.“Dorothy lived a very independent and free life in Grasmere and she would spend her time walking for miles,” Bennett says. “Reading her journal, it is evident that she took great joy in experiencing and recording the world around her.” Bennett’s favourite passage is from near the end of the journal, where Dorothy describes a quiet moment looking over Grasmere with Mary, her brother’s wife: I was much affected when I stood upon the second bar of Sara’s Gate. The lake was perfectly still, the sun shone on Hill and vale, the distant Birch trees looked like large golden Flowers – nothing else in colour was distinct and separate but all the beautiful colours seemed to be melted into one another, and joined together in one mass so that there were no differences though an endless variety when one tried to find out.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Georgia Bennett’s illustration of Sara’s Gate. Photograph: Georgie Bennett from The Folio Society edition of The Grasmere Journal“I took a lot of inspiration from the way she describes colour here to incorporate into the illustrations,” Bennett says, revealing she spent “a long time” tracking down Sara’s Gate so she could paint it. “It is a great example of Dorothy’s ability to capture a moment in time.”William Wordsworth's 'daffodils' cottage set for £5m improvement grant Between days wandering the countryside, Bennett researched in Dove Cottage and the Wordsworth Museum next door. Inside the museum, Bennett was able to examine one of the original journals. The manner in which Dorothy wrote – frequent amendments, crossings-out and ink splodges – were incorporated into her illustrations.“The cottage was actually a lot smaller than I imagined [because of] the number of visitors the Wordsworths had,” Bennet says. “You can really picture Dorothy in the kitchen baking or working in the orchard. They led a simple but very full and vibrant life. I loved that visitors can still enjoy seeing Coleridge’s stone step in the garden, William’s chair and the Rock of Names.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration of Dove Cottage from The Grasmere Journal by Georgie Bennett Photograph: Georgie Bennett from The Folio Society edition of The Grasmere JournalSign up to our Bookmarks newsletter Illustrating The Grasmere Journal gave Bennett a fresh appreciation of the quality and weight of Dorothy’s writing, outside the shadow of her more famous sibling. “Dorothy did not just play an influential role in William’s life: she also led an extraordinary life for a woman of her time and was clearly a gifted writer,” she says. “I believe she was a kind and contemplative person who lived for the simple things in life and greatly appreciated the awe of nature. It was an absolute pleasure to illustrate her words – she was an independent thinker, a beautiful writer. Quietly brilliant.”The Grasmere Journal by Dorothy Wordsworth, illustrated by Georgie Bennett is published by the Folio Society.