Ahead of the release of his debut album I Told You, which came out on Friday, Tory Lanez is contemplating the event that inspired him to make music in the first place. It wasn’t seeing an artist on stage, or a particular record, but something more fundamental. “My mom died when I was 11 years old,” explains the R&B star, in the midst of promoting his album in Chicago. Lanez and his mother were close; she died from complications from anaemia. “At the time I was being very bad because I didn’t know how to express myself. Music gave me an outlet to express myself and channel that anger.”Since then, Lanez has gone from being a kid searching for answers to a struggling artist looking for a break. These days however, he’s enjoying his stature as one of 2016’s most talked-about artists. “Honestly man, it hasn’t hit me yet because I’ve been working so much,” he says. “I have a lot of money, but I still feel broke. When I say I feel broke, I don’t mean broke in a financial sense but I still feel like that kid from the gutter who’s still trying to get it, even though I’m at the place I want to be.” Lanez was born in Toronto. His real name is Daystar Peterson – he adopted Tory as a nod to the Notorious BIG. Lanez had turbulent childhood. His father was a missionary who moved from city to city spreading the word: Lanez lived in Atlanta, New York and Miami before heading back to Toronto as a teenager to live with his grandmother. (She eventually kicked him out of the house and he wound up on his own for a time.)    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest He picked up musical influences from each location. “I’m a very cultural person and Canada is a very cultural place,” he explains. “In Canada, you grow up listening to so much different music that when it’s time to make your own, you subconsciously take what you’ve heard growing up and it goes into your own sound. I think that’s what makes music coming from Canadian artists stand out.” He describes his own music as “swavey”, meaning that it fuses genres. His current single Luv mixes ragga with R&B and cold, ethereal synthesisers; last year’s smash Say It updated Brownstone’s classic new jack swing record If You Love Me into a 21st century sex jam. Back in 2009, Lanez crafted his first mixtape. Called TL 2 TO, while raw and unpolished it already exhibited some of his energy and charisma. In order to promote it, Lanez uploaded a series of music videos to YouTube which soon caught the interest a famous countryman. “Justin Bieber found me on YouTube and was really trying to sign me,” he says. “I was like, what the fuck? Why me? How, of all people, did he find me?” As Bieber was just 16 at the time the idea fell through, but fellow chart-topper Sean Kingston, who was touring with Bieber at the time, was able to swoop in and snapped him up instead. “I was just putting my work in,” says Lanez, who was just 17 at the time. “I’m not even sure how they came across me – maybe it was the Canadian connection.”Lanez is now 24. He has been gearing up for the release of his debut studio album ever since Bieber took notice by releasing a series of mixtapes and collaborating with a range of hot songwriters and producers. One those names is Benny Blanco, the pop producer who has concocted smashes for everyone from Maroon 5 to Katy Perry and is known for helping fledgling artists become household names. “He’s one of the greatest producers I could ever work with,” says Lanez of the hitmaker who Lanez is now signed with through Mad Love, Blanco’s imprint with Interscope Records. “He’s a young legend and I wouldn’t be here without him.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Blanco helped Lanez craft his current hit Luv, a Jamaican-flavored R&B jam that is helping Lanez bridge the gap from mixtape credibility to mainstream success. “I didn’t want to go on the record and start singing in an American way or Canadian kind of way,” Lanez says of the rising track, which coincidentally sounds reminiscent of a track that Sean Kingston would put out. “I was raised around so many Jamaicans, so I wanted to go at Luv with an accent and give it a Caribbean vibe.” The result is a new flavour of patois, a Canadian take on the “Jafaican” accent London kids (for example) have adopted, showcased on British grime records by the likes of Skepta.Despite his budding success, there’s been hiccups along the way. A feud with fellow Toronto star Drake has dogged him since 2010, with the two stars trading veiled disses on a variety of each other’s tracks: on Summer Sixteen, Drake raps: “All you boys in the new Toronto want to be me a little”; on his remix of MadeinTYO’s Uber Everywhere, Lanez responds: “You some actor nigga boy, I used to see you on the screen.” Perhaps wary of getting stuck in Drake’s shadow, Lanez declines to discuss the rapper today.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A more serious controversy came in March, when a concert in Texas made headlines after multiple people were arrested and Lanez was accused of inciting a riot. Lanez says that he’s striving to improving his stage presence, which often finds him climbing around or crowdsurfing. “Every time I do something in life I try to outdo myself. It’s all about taking things day by day and my crowd control has gotten better,” he says. ”I can’t really talk about [the Texas] situation. I didn’t do anything. It was more of a situation where the person who ran the event did some things they weren’t supposed to do and it just caused problems.” Now, his focus is on I Told You, set to be one of the defining albums of the late summer. “I’m thankful to God that my life changed, but I’m also still on my grind,” he says of the constant slog of building a career as an artist. Will he ever go back to his real – and perhaps even more extraordinary – name? “I believe later in life I’m gonna change my name when I start making the right music,” he explains. “I don’t feel like I’m making the right music to have that name yet. When I get to a certain level, I’ll start going by Daystar.” 