Sam Thielman: Hi, I write about technology for the Guardian US and have been a devoted comic book reader since childhood, who for some reason feels compelled to see the DC Comics movies for the same reason, I guess, that fans of a losing team still attend games. With my colleague, I saw Batman v Superman in 4DX, my first time in a movie theater like this.For a hefty $28.10 – in New York, anyway – the movie turns into a theme park ride: the seats have been mounted on moving armatures that swing you back and forth during fights or flights as the film demands; there’s a fog machine up front that blasts out smoke effects; the lighting kit is sophisticated enough to fool you into thinking something bright is behind you; and little air jets next to your ears fire when something in the movie gets too close.As soon as the credits stop rolling, the film rehashes, from Batman’s perspective, the events of the unpleasant last hour of Man of Steel, in which most of Gotham City (right next door to Metropolis, apparently) is destroyed by that film’s main villain. So the debut of 4DX in New York is composed of extremely realistic scenes of falling masonry and actual clouds of smoke in the theater for the first five minutes of the film.Spencer, who are you and what were your initial impressions?Batman in 4DX with fake rain and added smells? Bring it on Spencer Ackerman: I’m the Guardian’s US national security editor, and I am also a comics obsessive, so this movie forced me to feel feelings. The experience is unexpectedly immersive. Your seat lifts as Superman rises. It juts to and fro as the Batmobile races to intercept villains. The air conditioning and sprinklers quickly activate as the heaving rain of Gotham City underscores the grim-dark tone of the movie. Sometimes the interplay between the 4DX and the film takes a viewer in unexpected directions, like when the seat warms during an intimate scene between Lois Lane and Superman in a bathtub. ST: I had not noticed the seat-warming, but even though I missed that I did quite like flying with Superman and tilting left and right as various creatures and vehicles (notably the Batwing) flew over Gotham and Metropolis. If a viewer attends this movie in an altered state, I recommend against alcohol. There’s a lot of swaying, and of course there are the 3D effects combined with a smoke machine that casts additional shadows on the screen, so if your equilibrium isn’t note-perfect when you walk into the film, you won’t be good for much of anything about 10 minutes in. I wonder what could be done to keep patrons’ legs from being crushed during an ill-timed exit One of the things that actually surprised me – and that I liked – was that when Batman gets tossed through a series of plaster walls, as is pretty much required of any hero in a modern superhero movie, the seat kicks you gently in the back as though you yourself are being thrown through wall after wall. I can only assume that this is exactly what it feels like for Batman, since we’re repeatedly told that he’s human and Superman is not, yet Batman apparently can take this kind of punishment for an incredibly long time (the running time of this film is, I believe, 37 hours and 16 minutes) to no ill effect. It was undeniably fun, but the whole thing felt a little experimental to me – people leave the theater to go to the bathroom and get more popcorn like they would in any movie, and I wonder what the good people at CJ 4Dplex rely on to keep patrons’ legs from being crushed during an ill-timed exit, beyond the hand of providence. I was also a little disappointed not to have smelled anything beyond the fog machine. What didn’t you like?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Superman actor Henry Cavill’s punches are so super they smash into you in 4DXSA: The drawbacks of 4DX are inextricable from its strengths. It can be jarring to see a movie in a theater where the house lights repeatedly flash on to accentuate the on-screen action. Being suddenly cold and wet takes a viewer out of the action that the experience is intended to enhance. The unfortunate recapitulation of Batman’s origin means a headrest will spray compressed air at your temples when the batcave’s inhabitants shriek by – making the tacit cinematic argument that you can’t understand the transformative fear Young Bruce Wayne experienced until you have your seat pantomime the release of bat urine. Kevin Smith: Batman v Superman showed 'fundamental misunderstanding' ST: I’d agree with you that this is probably the format in which to see it if you absolutely must. I didn’t hate the film as much as some, but I did feel like its crummiest moments were made a little better by its basically rehashing the classic Disneyland ride Star Tours. I liked actually feeling “bullets” whiz by my ears. So how would you sum up the experience?SA: Sure, Batman v Superman never coheres into a good movie, but in the moment, it’s more fun than the first wave of critical pannings suggest. Seeing it in a weird format that feels like a theme park ride is a helpful way to avoid taking too seriously a movie that, after all, is about Batman punching Superman.ST: Yes. This is 100% a movie about hitting, and as we’ve said, the 4Dx makes the hitting pleasantly interactive, if not realistic. We give it four black eyes.Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice is open in 4DX at the Regal Union Square Stadium, New York City