I never told anyone I wanted to be an Olympian. I remember we were asked in school assembly when I was about 10, “What do you want to do when you grow up?” and I remember thinking, “I want to be an Olympian” but I think I said, “A teacher.” I didn’t believe that someone like me could do something like that.My dad used to say, “Don’t shout about yourself because when you’re good enough, other people will shout for you.” A lot of my university friends didn’t even know I’d started rowing until I was selected for the Olympic team. Some didn’t know until I crossed the line in London. But if you’re going to be successful, you can only do it quietly once in your life. This time round, in Rio, we don’t have the luxury of not telling people.The moment we crossed the line, Heather (Stanning) turned around to hug me, knocked my sunglasses off my head and started apologising. I was like, “It’s OK, we’ve won the Olympics, it’s OK!” In that moment I was just exhausted. I remember leaning over and saying in her ear, “We did it.” After a few seconds, we realised it wasn’t just me and her, it was thousands of people at the lake, all our family and friends, our coach, everyone watching on TV. I looked up, heard the roar of the crowd and just wanted to acknowledge everyone who had cheered for us. I think it being the first gold for Great Britain of the Games, it felt bigger than we expected. We hadn’t even won a world championship before this.It was 11 o’clock when we raced and we naively planned to meet our families in the pub at 4.30pm for a roast. We got back to our hotel at 3am because we’d been doing interviews. We got out of the boat and I was pulled off for a drugs test. It’s a bit of a buzzkill, to have to pee in a pot before you can celebrate. Next thing I knew I was in the middle of the Olympic Park talking to Gary Lineker about how I’d just won the Olympics. We were walking into rooms with newsreaders we recognised and sports presenters we’d seen on TV who looked at us, knew who we were and hugged us in congratulations. It was weird, but so special.‘There was rice, corned beef, Spam’: a family opens a food package, 1948 We never had that roast. We barely saw our families. The nicest thing was the reaction of the people who were watching and loving the Olympics. We only let ourselves get absorbed in that once we’d finished competing – it was so refreshing that something that was a big dream for us was loved and relished by the nation.Heather and I have been rowing together since 2010; we met when I first started in 2008. We train full-time; we get a Sunday off every three to six weeks. It’s our job at weekends, it’s our job early in the morning, and even at home: rather than laze around with a glass of wine, you eat and go to bed. It’s a lifestyle as well as hard training.I think this picture was the one that Gary Lineker presented to us on this oversized, ridiculous stamp. All the gold medallists had a stamp made of them. When I look at it now, I remember this huge sense of relief. We should have won, and anything less would have been disappointing.• Are you in a notable photograph? Email thatsme@theguardian.com