“I’m just raw material,” complains Alan Bennett’s mother in The Lady in the Van when she sees her son scribble down something she has just said. She has good reason for the accusation. One of the threads in The Lady in the Van involves the tension between Bennett the writer and Bennett the human being. He may claim that Miss Shepherd, who lived for many years in a vehicle parked on his driveway, is “not my project” but that doesn’t stop him jotting down material about her, too, “just on the off chance”.The artist, of course, is always a vulture looking for carrion. Often they find it in their own families and relationships. This raises ethical issues about what to use, what not to use, and – most importantly – how to use it. There was a brilliantly self-aware moment in Bryony Kimmings’ show Fake it Till You Make It, at the Edinburgh festival in 2015, when Kimmings the artist suddenly realised that the experience Kimmings the person was going through (her partner’s depression) might make a good show, and she acknowledged that thought out loud.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bryony Kimmings’ partner’s depression writ large in Fake It Till You Make It. Photograph: Richard DavenportNot everyone is so acutely aware of how they might mine their own lives, but it’s increasingly an issue in a theatre culture where there has been a shift from people pretending to be someone else to being themselves. In the daft but enjoyable meta-theatre comedy In Tents and Purposes in Edinburgh this year, one of the characters finds herself appearing in her flatmate’s novel. “Surely as a writer you are supposed to make stuff up?” she complains.Not any longer, and it can make for uncomfortable viewing. As is the case with On the Run’s Tell Me Anything, in which David Ralfe tells us about the summer when he was a teenager in love with a girl with an eating disorder. Ethical issues about using other people’s lives are raised in several shows, including Mark Thomas’s Red Shed at the Traverse, in which real people are represented on stage by members of the audience, and in Rob Drummond’s In Fidelity (also at the Traverse), which takes the form of a live dating show. Both In Fidelity and Sh!t Theatre’s Letters to Windsor House at Summerhall reference real people’s activities on the internet. These people become unknowing characters in the show, albeit with their names changed. Neither show goes as far as Ursula Martinez’s 2010 production My Stories, Your Emails, which publicly shamed the men who had contacted her after her striptease act was published on the web without her permission, but there is still an uncomfortable element about their use of private exchanges in a public context.Even verbatim theatre, in all except its most basic form – think the Chilcot Report, which has been read out loud in Edinburgh, or the tribunal plays at the Tricycle – is still a form of fiction, that mediates the material in the way it is shaped and edited; what is left out and what is put in.You must take great care using other people’s words, as Yinka Kuitenbrouwer does in One Hundred Homes at Summerhall, for which she visited people in the places they live and asked about the meaning of home. She is scrupulous about the way she represents them, and part of the quiet pleasure of One Hundred Homes is the respect with which ordinary people’s lives are treated and treasured. Every word is precious, and that is reflected in the way the piece is presented – with tea and biscuits – in what is an encounter, not just a piece of theatre.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘Bit daunting, really’: the Edinburgh standups reading Chilcot in fullThe ordinary takes centre stage in a different way in Doubting Thomas (Summerhall), in which Jeremy Weller of the Grassmarket Project offers up the life of Thomas McCrudden, a former violent criminal who has turned his life around and is determined to stay out of prison. McCrudden stars in the piece, and it feels as if he is in control of his own story and would have no hesitation in telling us if he was being misrepresented. But, of course, there are still voices missing here: those of his victims.As audiences, we like the idea that we are getting something from the horse’s mouth and that what we are being told is true, which is why so many Hollywood films are “based on a true story”. It’s also why some were so miffed by Dennis Kelly’s very clever 2007 show Taking Care of Baby, about what we accept as truth. There’s a similar slipperiness to Australian Mish Grigor’s The Talk at Forest Fringe, a wonderfully entertaining hour in which Grigor gets the audience to play members of her family talking about sex. The script is apparently based on interviews with her family and on her re-creation of family events. It includes her own personal sex tape and her mother talking about the size of her former husband’s penis. It is funny, toe-curlingly frank, immensely insightful about family dynamics, and it makes you think about your own family and what you do and don’t talk about.During the show, Grigor tells us that she assured her family that she would give them script approval and change their names, but in fact has done neither. Of course, she may be lying. She may have made up every word. Part of the pleasure of The Talk is that we will never know what’s true and what’s not, and that it’s up to us to decide whether it matters. 