Narcos (available from 2 September)Season two of the epic crime drama about the life and career of Colombian cocaine commandant Pablo Escobar, and the DEA’s morally questionable efforts to take him out. Superbly acted, kinetically brutal, and sumptuously shot on location in Colombia, Narcos fills the gap left gaping by the departure of TV’s great antiheroes, Walter White and Tony Soprano. Easy (available from 22 September)Microbudget mumblecore film-maker Joe Swanberg branches into TV with a comedy-drama anthology series set in Chicago. Hannibal Buress, Emily Ratajkowski and Orlando Bloom are just some of its stars.Luke Cage (available from 30 September)The Marvel superuniverse expands ever further. Luke Cage – a clear standout of Jessica Jones last year – is back as the hero of Harlem, a man with superhuman strength and unbreakable skin.Amanda Knox (available from 30 September)Since the murder of Meredith Kercher in Perugia, Italy, back in 2007, fellow exchange student Amanda Knox has been making headlines the world over. This documentary, produced by the creator of India’s Daughter, looks at her trials, her conviction and her acquittal for the crime.Chef’s Table: France (available from 2 september)Another appetising slice of food porn from documentary-maker David Gelb, this time profiling French haute cuisine chefs. Prepare to salivate. Longmire (available from 23 September)The moody modern western that isn’t Justifed returns for a fifth season of subtle, slow-building drama.Extremis (available from 13 September)Harrowing short documentary about ordinary people forced to make end-of-life decisions in an intensive care unit in California. The White Helmets (available from 16 September)Another intense short documentary, this one from the Oscar-nominated creators of Virunga, which follows volunteer rescue workers who help civilians in war-ravaged Syria and Turkey. Audrie and Daisy (available from 23 September)Devastating documentary series about two underage women who were raped in Maryville, Missouri, then realise that their attacks have been captured on camera.Film      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Anarchic and sun-soaked … Tangerine. Photograph: REX Shutterstock/Chris Bergoch/Everett CollectionTangerineSean Baker’s anarchic, sun-soaked, no-budget comedy about transgender sex workers in LA that was shot entirely on an iPhone.Bang Gang (A Modern Love Story)Sex parties and syphilis in small-town France. A riff on teenage drifting and loneliness.