Lucille’s character was actually quite captivating. She had to be the mother to Wren after years of having an actual mother. She pushed herself down and gave herself a hard time over the little things. She had to be strong for Wren. In my opinion, she was brave. I loved the risks she took for Wren. I loved the care she had for Wren. If I had a sibling, I’d want them to be like Lu. She was imperfect, but, in a way, she was perfect. Her character continued and carried on. I can’t imagine most of us can say that. Especially not in her situation. And, most of all, she felt real. The unrequited romance was real. You can love someone you can never have. It’s true. And the love for her sister and her friend. That felt real too.The relationships between Lu and Wren and Eden were fantastic. Eden and Lu had an amazing friendship. I was in awe of their love for each other. Eden wanted to help. She wanted to be Lu’s hero when Lu thought she needed one. And Lu saved Eden. And what makes Eden even more amazing is the fact that she stayed with Lu until her sibling relationship said otherwise. She didn’t shy away from what happened. She accepted it, and she loved Lu’s family just the same. And Lu and Wren... as I said, I’d like to be the Wren with a sibling like Lu. Lu cared so much about Wren. She’d do anything for her. I want that in a sibling. Someone who loves me unconditionally. No matter what. Unlike many other books, this book has unrequited love. And for a pretty long time too. I thought that this was interesting. The two parts of the romance didn’t just jump ship. Digby had a girlfriend. And the emotions Lu expressed for him? Perfect. They captured the unrequited part perfectly. The throbbing heart. The yearning. The longing. All true. (And, for me, a familiar sight.) And I loved that Lu’s emotions were relatable. Because those emotions could come from me.I want to just touch upon the Good Samaritan deeds that happened in this book. I used to live in an area like that. I lived with neighbours who would help and aid and guide if needed. And that’s rare. Not every cul-de-sac is like that. Not everyone would give food and help trim lawns and be, essentially, angels for someone else. While reading this I was wary at first, I began to smile at these random acts of kindness. Because, honestly, we need more of these.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Admittedly, however, the plot was a little bit boring. Sure, there was the drama of raising your kid sister by yourself. And the drama from lusting after someone you can’t have. I’m not saying the book was a straight up boredom-fest, but it didn’t have all that I wanted it to. I wanted more about Lu’s family. I actually wanted more school-related scenes. How were her grades? Was she a good student? A bad one? Knowing her work story and her family story, I wanted more about her life.  4/5.• Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!