It might seem crass to discuss next year’s Oscars ahead of this year’s, which have been mired in controversy after – for the second year in a row – no actors of color were nominated. But thanks to the 2016 Sundance film festival, which wrapped on Sunday, there’s simply no avoiding the discussion.The Park City event, founded by Robert Redford, has long served as a launchpad for future Oscar players (and in many cases, winners). In 1989, Steven Soderbergh’s sex, lies and videotape netted the audience award, receiving an Oscar nomination for best original screenplay a year later and months after winning the Palme d’Or at Cannes. In the years since, Sundance smashes such as Precious, Beasts of the Southern Wild, Fruitvale Station, Whiplash, Boyhood and most recently Brooklyn have gone on to break through to the mainstream to enter the awards race. A number of Sundance titles from this year’s edition are poised to join the ranks, chief among them: The Birth of a Nation.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nigel M Smith reviews The Birth of a Nation from the Sundance film festivalAs the first film to center on the story of Nat Turner, a former slave in America who led a violent liberation movement in 1831 to free African Americans in Virginia, Nate Parker’s directorial debut had near-deafening buzz coming into Park City. Anticipation was so high that Parker received a standing ovation at the film’s premiere before it screened. His film was graced with an even lengthier one after it played, confirming The Birth of a Nation as an audience favorite. Buyer interest was immediate, with Fox Searchlight, the distributor that led 12 Years a Slave to Oscar victory in 2014, ponying up $17.5m for the film – a Sundance record.Rebecca Hall at Sundance: Hollywood is scared of 'ugly' female characters Although critical reaction has been decidedly mixed (the Guardian’s Lanre Bakare called it “heavy-handed”, while Variety’s Justin Chang praised it as “searingly impressive”), the powerful subject matter and timeliness in the wake of the #OscarsSoWhite controversy and the Black Lives Matter movement, is sure to push it the front of the pack when the race heats up. It led the Sundance winners on Sunday, claiming both the audience award and US grand jury prize, mirroring Whiplash’s victory in 2014. Like Whiplash, expect it to factor in the best picture Oscars race.Possibly joining it is Kenneth Lonergan’s devastating drama Manchester By the Sea. Ecstatically received by critics, the latest from the You Can Count On Me writer/director sold to Amazon for $10m. Like all of Lonergan’s output, it’s relatively small scale, and therefore faces a bigger uphill battle than The Birth of a Nation. It’s expertly crafted screenplay shouldn’t go ignored. The same goes for the wrenching performance from Oscar-nominee Casey Affleck, who plays a janitor reeling from a family tragedy. Michelle Williams, as Affleck’s grieving ex-wife, only factors into a handful of scenes, but stuns in a pivotal sequence. She could very well earn her fourth Oscar nomination for her supporting turn.Rebecca Hall is equally deserving of a nod for her astonishing work in Antonio Campos’ dark character study Christine, about Christine Chubbuck, the news anchor who achieved notoriety in the 70s for killing herself on live TV. Hall, who’s never been afforded a role this complex and demanding, delivers the performance of her career. The film is likely too grim to factor strongly into the discussion, but if the film’s eventual distributor (it’s currently without a home) plays its cards right, Hall will have a very busy autumn.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Molly Shannon at Sundance 2016. Photograph: Danny Moloshok/Invision/APMolly Shannon would also be wise to block some time off this fall for campaigning on behalf of her supporting performance in this year’s Sundance opener Other People, as a mother suffering from terminal cancer. Shannon quietly devastates in a role that proves the comedian is equally as skilled at drama.Breaking Bad Emmy winner Anna Gunn also deserves a mention for her powerhouse performance as a ruthless senior investment banker in the taut feminist financial thriller, Equity.Little Men review – Ira Sachs' achingly humane family drama soars Of the other films to premiere at Sundance, watch out for Ira Sachs’ family drama Little Men. Sachs’ last film, Love is Strange, landed on many critics top 10 lists in 2014 and managed to receive a few Independent Spirit Awards noms. His latest is sure to win over any voter who comes across it – it’s too affecting to be ignored.Additional standouts include Sing Street, John Carney’s musical follow-up to Begin Again, and the crowd-pleasing comedy Morris From America. Songs from the former could potentially be up for best song, while Chad Hartigan’s script for the latter stands a shot at possibly netting a nod (it won the screenplay award at Sundance).Sundance has always been a hotbed for some of the year’s best documentaries (in recent years, Searching for Sugar Man and Twenty Feet From Stardom began their journeys at the festival before going on to Oscar glory), and this year was no exception. The frontrunner out of the new batch is Weiner, winner of the US documentary grand jury prize, which tracks Anthony Weiner’s disastrous mayoral bid in 2014, followed closely by Life, Animated, a moving film that explores how films helped an autistic person communicate with the outside world.