For almost a thousand years, the stonily imposing Auckland Castle was the seat of the bishops of Durham. They were a mixed bunch. For every saintly incumbent who lined the dining room with old master paintings of the sons of Jacob in order to promote Jewish rights, there was a scapegrace who was murdered in Rome by his boyfriend.The new man with his feet under the old episcopal table is at least as God-fearing as any of his predecessors. But Jonathan Ruffer has never felt the inside of a dog collar. He is that unexpected quantity: a devout Christian and multimillionaire City financier. He handles billions on behalf of his clients. When he heard that those paintings in the castle, by Zurbarán, were going to leave the country, he stepped in to save them. He ended up buying the castle, too, in a job lot that set him back £15m.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blazing passion … members of Kynren’s vast cast race through the dark. Photograph: Ian Forsyth/Getty ImagesAlmost by accident, the 64-year-old finds himself de facto lord of the manor. But as he gets accustomed to his status, the scope and sweep of his ambitions for Bishop Auckland, his new domain, recall the noblesse oblige of the prince bishops of Durham, who ran the local economy and could even raise an army. Indeed, on a still evening, the skirl of fifes and the clang of blade on breastplate rise to the castle from the valley below, where Ruffer’s divisions are in training.The speculator’s private militia isn’t his hedge against any unpleasantness following Brexit. No, it’s his quixotic contribution to restoring the fortunes of the community, in a former mining heartland where the unemployment rate is more than twice the national average. Ruffer is the main backer of something called Kynren, an all-singing, all-dancing history of Britain from the Romans to the second world war, which will be put on by about 1,000 volunteers in the investor’s rolling backyard. Billed as the biggest live event in the UK since the 2012 Olympics, it features a Viking longboat levitating out of a lake, horses charging into battle, a volley of flaming arrows and and plenty of pyrotechnics.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Young Arthur is introduced at the start of the story. Photograph: Ian Forsyth/Getty ImagesAfter its premiere on 2 July, Ruffer hopes it will become an established summer attraction. Kynren – as un-catchy a title as you’re ever likely to come across – is based on an Anglo-Saxon term from which we apparently get the word “kindred”. The production itself is modelled on a similar extravaganza that has been packing them in for almost 40 years in the Vendée region of France.A gangling figure in owlish spectacles, Ruffer introduces himself in the castle library, now a teashop. He wears the regulation togs of an off-duty City man of a certain age: pullover, check shirt, formal flannels. He has the cloistered air of a prep school master, though he clearly knows his way around a bourse, as his many prosperous clients could testify. He spends half the week in the City, the other operating out of the castle.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A medieval knight gallops through the grounds of Auckland Castle. Photograph: Ian Forsyth/Getty Images“I come from this part of the world,” he says, “and I wanted to do something up here. I had romantic ideas about being the patron saint of the soup ladle and helping in community hostels, but I’m completely impractical. I don’t talk very easily about my faith, but I start the day long before cockcrow and I pray for a long time every day. All my hopes and fears are centred in that.”Ruffer found God towards the end of his student days at Cambridge. He contemplated going into the church to join the ranks of the clergymen whose portraits surround him, but decided he had no vocation for articulating and disseminating his beliefs. “I’m pretty God-y and what I’m doing here is because I feel a call to do it. One of the things I find nonplussing is people who ask me about my vision. I haven’t really got one. I’ve been called on a journey, like Abraham was.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The biggest live event since the 2012 Olympics … the finale of Kynren. Photograph: Ian Forsyth/Getty ImagesFor a less committed man, or a less wealthy one, Ruffer’s journey would be one long Via Dolorosa to the bank, a Calvary of cashpoints. He is thought to have parted with £35m and counting: to sink and fill a long-water, landscape its surrounds, install a grandstand with a capacity of 8,000, commission state-of-the-art lighting effects and headhunt the top people from the Vendée operation. Backstage, a centurion is eating cake in the rain and Good Queen Bess in her wide skirts is exiting a room sideways But Ruffer doesn’t miss the millions, in either sense of that phrase. I ask if, as a Christian who has made himself and others spectacularly rich, he is salving his conscience. “No, I have no such feeling at all. But I am driven by a negative one: I’m frightened of money. I see what it does to people. In the City, people get absurdly rich. I’m not talking about the shits: they’re always shits. But ordinary modest, decent, diffident people change – and not for the better. I can see these forces in me, too, and so I have no interest in money. I see that you don’t own money, it owns you.” Well, people may say, give it all away then. “Well, I am, aren’t I?” Is that what you’re doing? “I’m parting with the crop but keeping the field,” says Ruffer, liturgically.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I’m frightened of money. I see what it does to people’ … Jonathan Ruffer, the City financier behind Kynren. Photograph: Chris Booth/i-ImagesBackstage at a dress rehearsal, a centurion is eating cake in the rain, and Good Queen Bess in her wide skirts is exiting a changing room sideways on. A father and his two sons explain how they don wetsuits and aqualung to board the concealed longboat, and slip into furs and Norse helmets just as she surfaces. A woman waiting to make her entrance in Edwardian garb tells me that Ruffer is a wonderful person. “He’s made all this possible, with no gain to himself,” she says. I suggest he must be a genius to have persuaded hundreds of canny north-easterners to turn out for nothing on a wet Saturday night. “Oh no,” chips in a younger woman, “we’re doing this for ourselves.” But, I ask Ruffer, what’s in it for them? No jobs, for a start, or at least not directly. “I was going to say jobs are overrated, but I’m not sure I agree with myself,” he says in his deceptively woolly manner. “Jobs are extremely important. But my mantra is: I want to see Bishop Auckland as a wonderful place socially, economically, morally, spiritually. What I want to see is a change in the way people are.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A production of biblical proportions … Joseph of Arimathea. Photograph: Ian Forsyth/Getty ImagesIt’s unashamed paternalism of the kind that the 19th-century Christian industrialists , the Levers and the Cadburys, would recognise. Ruffer’s plans for his adopted town include the creation of a Museum of Faith. A little late in the day for David Cameron, Kynren is also a kind of son et lumière “big society”, albeit generously supported with the proceeds of a City investment house. Ruffer’s vision is at best cloudy, as he says himself, but it appears to begin with making the area feel better about itself through the old Judy Garland-Mickey Rooney model of putting on the show right here. And, to judge by the camaraderie and good cheer among performers and technicians, it seems to be working.But is it enough to build a field of dreams? Will the tourists come? Bishop Auckland is a long way from the well-trodden destinations of London, Stratford–upon-Avon and Edinburgh. I ask Ruffer what he would have said if someone had approached him to invest in Kynren. “Probably the same as all my rich City friends have said to me: Go to bed, have a sleep, hopefully you’ll get over it.” • Stephen Smith is culture editor of Newsnight. Kynren premieres on 2 July, with performances until September.