The recent success of non-network television drama – through hit shows including House of Cards and Transparent on streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime – has been seen as a threat to the domination of TV fiction by terrestrial channels. But, while we wait to see if the BBC can ultimately beat the streamers, last night it joined them. From 9pm, The Rack Pack, a 90-minute comedy-drama about the rise of televised snooker in the 1970s and 80s, was released as an exclusive on the BBC repeat streaming service, iPlayer, where it will be available for the next 12 months.Baize of glory: BBC revives snooker's 1980s heyday with The Rack Pack  This is not the BBC’s first web-only show – there have been various spin-offs or special content from on-the-box franchises and exclusive programmes, including My Jihad and Bitter Lake – but it clearly feels the most ambitious, and the one that might otherwise have been expected to be conventionally screened. The obvious risk of streamed exclusives is that viewers inevitably wonder why the networks didn’t want them, in the same way that movies released straight on to DVD are regarded as having failed to make the cinematic grade. The Rack Pack, though, while lacking the production values of the best dramas to be found on television, is easily superior to average ones. Archive footage and dramatised material are deftly melded. Period detail – suits, sideburns, music – is smartly done, and the script (credited to Mark Chappell, Alan Connor and Shaun Pye) sets up a schematic but effective tension between a star player with an excess of charisma – the self-destructive maverick, Alex “Hurricane” Higgins (Luke Treadaway) – and one initially notorious for a deficit in that department: the anti-hedonistic perfectionist Steve Davis. And John Sessions, as the voice and occasionally the face of the snooker commentator “Whispering” Ted Lowe, is as sweetly scene-stealing as his portrayal of the actor Arthur Lowe was in the recent BBC2 bio-drama We’re Doomed! The Dad’s Army Story.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Rack Pack’s Steve Davis (Will Merrick) and Alex Higgins (Luke Treadaway). Photograph: BBC/Zeppotron/Emilie SandySo, there must be explanations other than quality for The Rack Pack not also being on BBC2. History suggests that one possible reason is departmental imperialism at the BBC. Since making programmes is the activity that attracts most notice (if not necessarily the highest financial rewards) at the Corporation, sections that don’t have commissioning and production powers are prone to seek them.Executives who have tried to cut costs by sharing programmes between networks (even in the case of the domestic and world services) usually find that each provider would rather make its own shows and, unless actively prevented, HR or catering are likely to fancy trying their hand at a sitcom. The Rack Pack, therefore, may represent the reluctance of the players behind iPlayer to be merely a repeat or preview channel for BBCs 1-4. If this was the motive, then it seems unwise at a time when both the culture secretary John Whittingdale and a survey of licence-payers recently released by the BBC Trust have expressed concerns about the Corporation’s expansionist ambitions. Certainly, the traditional reason for new material on a website – as bait to lure new users to give the regular provision a try – seems unlikely to apply to iPlayer, which naturally draws traffic through being a post-transmission home for high-profile BBC shows. A happier motivation for the off-piste transmission might be that iPlayer allows greater artistic freedom than programmes commissioned for transmission. BBC dramas of the ordinary sort are subject to strict rules about the depiction of living figures and the use of offensive language, but The Rack Pack felt bolder in these areas than anything I have recently seen on a BBC TV screen. There are cheeky cameos of living players, including Cliff Thorburn and Dennis Taylor, and the C-word twice serves as a punchline. If iPlayer exclusives, which require a greater effort and consent to view than shows in the overall flow of television, are going to be used to allow programme-makers to be braver than is possible in the heavily regulated schedules, then these streaming-only pieces seem a welcome initiative. If not, then it is hard to see why they are not being made available alongside the other fruits of the licence-fee. 