Leonard Cohen, the legendary singer-songwriter whose work inspired generations, has died at the age of 82.In a recent interview with the New Yorker, Cohen spoke about the prospect of death with calmness and clarity: “I am ready to die. I hope it’s not too uncomfortable. That’s about it for me.”'I bunked off school to go and see him': readers' tributes to Leonard Cohen Despite hints that Leonard Cohen would not live much longer his death, in a year that has already taken away Prince, David Bowie and George Martin, still came as a shock. Tributes poured in across social media for the Canadian musician, who had just released his 14th album, You Want it Darker, in October, to great acclaim.Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau said the “world will miss him” while , actors Rob Lowe and Russell Crowe, musicians Ben Folds, Peter Hook, Slash, Carole King, Lily Allen and Bette Midler all heaped praise on the star.Guardian readers have been sharing their memories in the live blog comment thread.    CroneRanger 11 November 2016 3:09amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateClosing Time for a haunting, luminous and often wryly funny poet and singer. I first became a fan in high school about 40+ years ago. My fondest memory was of him phoning my school after I had written a poem featuring him and my teacher had sent it to his publisher. Somehow they read it to him over the phone and he contacted me for a chat. A kind, human gesture.In recent years, I was lucky to see him on his long 2008-2013 tour several times. What set him apart from so many others of his generation was that he actually got better over 60 with such brilliant songs as The Future and Almost Like the Blues; he didn't just churn out his back catalogue. Thank you and bless you, Leonard.Leonard Cohen obituary Maybe you watched him perform live, perhaps one of his songs became the soundtrack to an important moment in your life, or perhaps his words spurred you on through a difficult time? You can share your thoughts, memories, photographs, and tributes using the form below. We’ll use a selection in our coverage. You can also share your photographs and video by clicking the blue GuardianWitness buttons on this article or, if they are not appearing on your device by clicking here. 