It is a stunning 21st-century success story: South Kensington’s museums quarter welcomed more visitors in 2015 than the city of Venice. No wonder. Between them, its three venues – the Victoria and Albert Museum, Natural History Museum and Science Museum, connected by a pedestrian underpass from South Kensington tube – house everything from dinosaurs to Alexander McQueen dresses, and mix up art, science and technology in a truly contemporary way.Three London museums totalled more visitors than Venice in 2015 But that innovative and generous idea of what museums can do and be is all down to the Victorian visionaries who created this holy trinity. Today’s great exhibitions in South Kensington owe their existence to the original Great Exhibition of 1851. This spectacular display of art and design from all over the world was staged in a temporary glass structure, the Crystal Palace, whose colossal layout can still be traced in Hyde Park. The exhibition could not last forever but the ambition it embodied lived on in plans for some grand new museums near its site. The Victoria and Albert Museum (then called the South Kensington Museum) was founded in 1852 specifically to preserve the popular, accessible, all-embracing curiosity of the Great Exhibition.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Great Exhibition in Crystal Palace designed by Joseph Paxton. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesShows such as the V&A’s David Bowie and McQueen blockbusters may seem a total departure from the traditional remit of a museum – but the not-so savage beauty is that they are completely faithful to the V&A’s founding ideals. The museum began collecting photography in the 19th century, part of its cafe was designed by then contemporary design company William Morris & Co, and its collections range from music hall to rock posters, Islamic textiles to wrought ironwork. Meanwhile, the anatomist Richard Owen was at work on his vision of a Natural History Museum for the nation. It opened in 1881 in a Victorian architectural masterpiece designed as a cathedral of nature covered with terracotta reliefs of strange and wonderful creatures. The third piece of the jigsaw, the Science Museum, originally formed part of the V&A collections before it was rehoused across the road. It has a long history of displaying technological wonders of the modern world with the dignity of sculptures. In its latest Leonardo da Vinci exhibition, art and science meet as one.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two cultures … art and science meet in the Leonardo da Vinci exhibition at the Science Museum. Photograph: Philippe Levy/Science MuseumOf course, the current success of these institutions comes at a time when fears grow for museums and galleries outside London. As David Hockney and Don McCullin add their name to growing protests over the planned transfer of more than 400,000 items from Bradford’s National Media Museum to a new photography centre at the V&A, are the South Kensington trio and other London museums crushing the cultural life out of the regions?The Victorians had an answer for that as well. The era that created South Kensington was also the golden age of art collecting in Liverpool, Manchester, Preston, Birmingham and many more British cities. The wealth of the industrial revolution created art galleries all over Britain with collections that still reflect predominantly Victorian tastes: from pre-Raphaelite art to Renaissance masterpieces, as well as the creative and technological innovations of the time.Museums are now part of Britain's pernicious north-south divide Far from sucking all the light to the capital, the V&A and its sister museums were originally the jewels in a cultural crown that glittered nationwide. Many museums stagnated in the 20th-century as the industrial might of Britain declined. Isn’t it right to renew that Victorian dream of museums and galleries enriching every region? Today, the big London museums need to be sending more works on tour and putting on collaborative exhibitions with galleries outside the capital. There needs to be a northern cultural powerhouse as well as an economic one.But this can’t just be handed down from London. Regional authorities need to reclaim their cultural history and pride. It’s time for us all to think like Victorians.