Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio (1571-1610) died young, had a public career for only 10 years, had no workshop, bequeathed no drawings and left no pupils, and the only places he travelled to outside mainland Italy were the Mediterranean speck of Malta and, briefly, Sicily. Nevertheless, by the time of his death he was famous far beyond the bounds of his homeland and, within a few years, his reputation had spread to the furthest reaches of Europe.More savage than Caravaggio: the woman who took revenge in oil The artist family tree of which Caravaggio forms the trunk branches out to encompass some of the greatest names of the 17th century – among them, Velázquez, Rembrandt, Rubens, Ribera, Vermeer, Georges de La Tour – and then upwards to Manet, Delacroix and Géricault in the 19th century and Bacon in the 20th. His effect on film is no less important, with Martin Scorsese, Peter Greenaway and Derek Jarman among those directors who have acknowledged a debt to him. So it is perhaps this second great Michelangelo – Caravaggio – whose paintings, in the phrase of his biographer Andrew Graham-Dixon, are “like looking at the world by flashes of lightning”, who can claim to have had a greater influence on the history of art than the first, Michelangelo Buonarotti.Caravaggio’s achievement was extraordinary. By the time of his birth the longest lived of the great figures of the high Renaissance were at the end of their lives; Michelangelo died in 1564 and Titian in 1576. The style that succeeded them, mannerism, was seen by many as a fall from grace, emphasising an art for art’s sake creed of elegance and sophistication. It was Caravaggio more than any other artist who shook art out of this high-falutin complacency and put human experience to the fore again. As the critic Robert Hughes put it: “There was art before him and after him, and they were not the same.”The painter’s influence, particularly in the first years of his fame, is the subject of Beyond Caravaggio at the National Gallery. With some 50 pictures, including six by Caravaggio himself, it shows how quickly the key elements of his style were adopted – not just the dramatic chiaroscuro, but the emphasis on storytelling, on naturalism and the use of live models, of the importance of gesture and the interjection of real people into biblical scenes. Not every artist learned all his lessons but enough had absorbed elements of his style for a group to form while he was still living.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christ displaying his wounds by Giovanni Antonio Galli (1625-35). Photograph courtesy of Perth Museum & Art Gallery, Perth & Kinross CouncilArt tends to work by evolution rather than revolution but Caravaggio was the exception. He arrived in Rome from Milan in 1592 and, having trained under a succession of minor masters, painted a series of strange and erotic genre pieces featuring epicene boys and still-lifes – pictures such as Boy With a Basket of Fruit and Boy Bitten by a Lizard, both from 1593-94. These paintings, and others on the themes of card sharps and fortune tellers, were meant for the private pleasure of elite patrons such as Cardinal del Monte and Vicenzo Giustiniani, and while they were seen and enjoyed by a close aristocratic circle they remained unknown to most of Caravaggio’s fellow artists.In 1500, though, he unveiled two paintings in the Contarelli chapel in the church of San Luigi dei Francesi in Rome – the French church – showing Christ calling St Matthew and his martyrdom. In the first, St Matthew and his fellow taxmen, all in contemporary dress, are sitting at a table in a darkened room when Christ enters and, pointing (in a gesture taken from Michelangelo’s Sistine ceiling), calls on him to join the church: at this moment of revelation the startled Matthew is spotlit by a diagonal shaft of otherworldly light. The second painting, on the opposite wall, shows the saint, struck down by an assassin in the middle of a baptism ceremony, lying on his back with his arm raised in a futile attempt to ward off the coup de grace. The pictures – dramatic, intense, Stygian and insistently putting the Bible into the here and now – were like nothing seen before and their effect was instantaneous.According to one of Caravaggio’s earliest biographers (he had three, which gives some idea of his celebrity), Giovan Pietro Bellori, “The painters then in Rome were so taken by the novelty, and the younger ones especially flocked to him and praised him alone as the only true imitator of nature, looking upon his works as miracles, they vied with each other in following him.” Visitors to the chapel need only look up to the ceiling to see a series of polite and conventional frescoes by Caravaggio’s master, the Cavaliere d’Arpino, to grasp something of the shock the pictures caused.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Rest on the Flight into Egypt by Orazio Gentileschi (1620). Photograph: Birmingham Museums Trust Birmingham Museums and Art GalleryNot that everyone found the paintings revelatory. Bellori himself may have reported that fellow artists were “infatuated” with Caravaggio’s manner but that was because, he said, “without study or effort it enabled them to make facile copies after nature and to imitate forms, which were vulgar and lacking in beauty”. Two centuries later, Ruskin echoed these sentiments: Caravaggio, he claimed, painted “for the sake of the shadows”, and he was a “ruffian … distinguished only by his preference for candlelight and reinforcement of villainy”. Indeed, by the mid-17th century, Caravaggism was already out of favour in Rome and had been superseded by a Raphaelesque classicism, practised most gracefully by Annibale Carracci. Remarkably, the first stirrings of a revival of the cult of Caravaggio didn’t occur until the 1920s.Caravaggio’s Rome was a city stuffed with artists, many of whom had come from elsewhere in Italy and abroad to study. The foreigners tended to cluster in their own communities, such as the Dutch and Flemish Bentvueghels (“Birds of a Feather”), which gave Caravaggism an important momentum when the artists returned home. The painter’s technique, not least the fact that, contrary to established practice, he didn’t draw but painted his figures directly on to the canvas, gave him an extra radicalism and his black legend undoubtedly helped, too.Violence was nothing unusual among 17th-century artists – Bernini once hired a hitman to slash the face of an unfaithful mistress, while Giovanni Castiglione attempted to throw his own sister off a roof – but Caravaggio was a repeat offender. His charge sheet includes numerous assaults (one against a waiter who served him the wrong dish of artichokes); jail time for libelling a fellow painter, Giovanni Baglione, by posting poems around Rome accusing him of plagiarism and calling him Giovanni Coglione (“Johnny Bollocks”); affray (a police report records Caravaggio’s response when asked how he came by a wound: “I wounded myself with my own sword when I fell down these stairs. I don’t know where it was and there was no one else there”); and one, if not two, murders.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Card Players by Antiveduto Grammatica (c1620). Photograph: The Wellington Collection, Apsley House (English Heritage) © Historic EnglandThat he used models from the street or from his coterie of pimps and prostitutes, had another aspect, though. Whatever Caravaggio’s reputation and dubious rickety glamour, his fellow painters could not doubt the sincere piety apparent in his paintings. The rough features and dirty feet of Caravaggio’s saints and pilgrims owed something to his adherence to the Counter Reformation saint Carlo Borromeo, whose care for the poor and dying during a plague in the 1570s had made him a popular hero. Caravaggio’s religious paintings give the lie to his irreligious life.Those who learned from Caravaggio varied hugely in both their closeness to him and in what they took. In 1615, for example, Cecco del Caravaggio, no relation though he was the older painter’s helpmeet, sometime model and companion, looked back to the early paintings of boys when he produced his own Musician. There is less sexual ambiguity about his figure but there is the same high, single point lighting (a landlady once made a formal complaint about Caravaggio knocking a hole through the ceiling) and obsession with detailed foreground still life that characterise Caravaggio’s pictures of the 1590s.Orazio Gentileschi was another painter in his circle and the man who, with the Duke of Buckingham, brought Caravaggism to England when he became court painter to Charles I in 1626. Contact with Caravaggio saw him adopt the other man’s greater naturalism, his pensive, almost melancholy characters and his method of close cropping to force the viewer into the picture. During the Baglione libel case he admitted he was close to Caravaggio, having lent him a pair of wings and a Capuchin robe as props. Orazio’s daughter Artemisia undoubtedly saw Caravaggio’s brutally mesmeric painting of Judith Beheading Holofernes, c1599, and used her memory of it when painting her own version of the subject – a response to her rape by a fellow painter.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A detail from Judith Beheading Holofernes (1599) by Caravaggio. Photograph: Krause, Johansen/Thames & HudsonAlthough he was a Spaniard, the hugely accomplished Jusepe de Ribera spent most of his life in Italy and by 1606 was in Rome where he may have met Caravaggio. He was certainly associated with the circles around him, and his pictures, although they were often disparaged for the brutality of their subject matter, show him to have been one of the most sensitive interpreters of Caravaggio’s distinctive type of concentrated and earthy human drama. Ribera spent much of his career in Naples, then a Spanish possession, and Philip IV was a keen collector of his work, helping spread Caravaggism to the Iberian peninsula.A cluster of distinguished artists from Utrecht did something similar for northern Europe, notably Gerrit van Honthorst, Dirck van Baburen and Hendrick ter Brugghen. Van Honthorst, for example, not only worked for two of Caravaggio’s patrons, and so knew the private pictures as well as the public ones, but was another painter who went on to work for Charles I. His love of Caravaggio’s darkness was enough to earn him the nickname Gherardo delle Notti – “Gerard of the Nights”. During the long period when Caravaggio’s name had lost its lustre, many of his paintings found themselves reattributed to these Utrecht painters and vice versa: at some point 70% of the paintings in the National Gallery exhibition were said to be by Caravaggio.One outcome of him being reduced to a set of stylistic attributes was the birth of the genre of candlelight paintings, most brilliantly practised by George de La Tour but also by other northerners such as Matthias Stom and Godfried Schalcken. The real subject of such paintings, though, was light itself and its effects rather than light as a means of illuminating and intensifying a story. Caravaggio himself never painted a naked candle.What the National Gallery’s exhibition also does is introduce some painters of remarkable quality who, unaccountably, remain little known. Among them, Bartolomeo Manfredi, the closest thing Caravaggio had to a disciple (so close he was said to have “transformed himself into Caravaggio”), was key in propagating his style; Valentin de Boulogne’s often crowded compositions show a subtle mastery of the interplay that occurs around a pivotal moment; and Giovanni Antonio Galli’s looming Christ Displaying his Wounds (1625-35), in which the Saviour locks eyes with the viewer and confronts us with his wounds, is both unsettling and unforgettable. Just as Caravaggio had a revival, these extraordinarily accomplished painters deserve one, too.The exhibition demonstrates that there was nothing unified about his followers, and in showing that there was far more to Caravaggism than simply the cliche of dramatic light and dark, it reaffirms just how much more there was to Caravaggio and his art, too.• Beyond Caravaggio is at the National Gallery, London WC2N, from 12 October nationalgallery.org.uk