One of music’s pre-eminent guitarists, Gary Clark Jr has gone from a teenage wunderkind from Austin, Texas, to a Grammy-winning star with five studio albums under his belt and a grueling touring schedule. On the verge of releasing a trove of fresh material, the first of which is the new song Take Me Down for the Gulf coast oil spill drama Deepwater Horizon, Clark discusses how Take Me Down could pave a possible path to an EGOT (Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, Tony) and what it’s like hanging out with the Rolling Stones.Deepwater Horizon review – Mark Wahlberg v BP in angry disaster movie You’ve jammed with so many musicians over the years. Who has been the most fun to play with?(Laughs) I’m gonna have to say the Foo Fighters, just because those guys have so much fun. They have this nonstop energy and they’re cool, yet goofy and silly. There’s no ego or attitude, it’s just a very open and comfortable environment. Monkey Wrench was one of the first I learned how to play, reading tablature in Guitar World magazine. I feel like I’ve known them for a long time and it’s like we’re jamming in a garage as teenagers, and I don’t get that feeling a lot. A lot of the time I’m too nervous or have a fear of messing up or hitting a wrong note or whatever, but with those guys it’s just loud, wild rock’n’roll.You also opened up for the Rolling Stones last year on their tour. What were they like?That was one of the ones I was more nervous about. It was kind of the same vibe as hanging with the Foo Fighters and them being just cool people. But those guys are super legends, they’re the biggest band in the world.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest That must be like playing with Mount Rushmore or something. Pretty much! (Laughs) We got to hang and I spent a lot of time in Keith (Richards’) dressing room eating shepherd’s pie and listening to Howling Wolf records, which was kind of surreal. I was saying to myself: “Dude, just be cool, be cool, be cool, be cool.” He was like: “Yeah, we’re from the same school, mate. We’re like brothers.” I’m like, ho-ly shit. I walk out of that room and was thinking, I can not believe that just happened. I’ve had some great, crazy experiences and have gotten the chance to jam with some of the biggest artists in the world, so every day I’m just grateful. I get up every morning and grind and strive to be something like that. It seems like you’re always touring. Is it a perpetual thing?It kind of never ends. I get a few days here and there to deal with other things, then it’s back out on the road. Do you actually get to see the sights of a city?It’s tour bus, venue, hotel, tour bus. You can slowly piece the city together every time you come and get the vibe. Perfect example: the ultimate destination spot for everybody is Rome. When we went, we didn’t see anything except this venue which is an old horse track, the Sheraton hotel, and the European tourbus I can’t stand up properly in because it’s a double-decker and I’m 6ft4in. That was my Roman experience.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest How did your involvement in the Deepwater Horizon movie come about?Me and (director) Peter Berg have been on each other’s radar for a few years. Peter shot the movie over to me and asked if I can do something with it and I said definitely. Seeing the movie made it all make sense. After the melody, the lyrics started flowing. The stars just kind of aligned. I like the song and I think the movie is really great. It’s a really touching story. I think it’ll hit home with a lot of people and open their eyes to something that they may not know that much about.I was thinking how a song like this is perfect Oscar bait. Have you thought about that?Yeah, I’ve heard talks about it. I try not to get myself to excited, but I’m not going to lie that would be definitely cool. You’d be on your way to an EGOT.(Laughs) Yeah, I know. I talk to my manager about it and he’s not really impressed with anything. He’s like: “A Grammy’s cool, bro, but you gotta get that EGOT.” I’m like: “You’re gonna put that pressure on me? Whatever, man.”That means you gotta hit Broadway too, I guess.Hey, well you know what? All that time in choir, dancing around, and doing plays that all my guys used to give me a hard time for, maybe it’ll all pay off one day. (Laughs)    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Your son Zion was born last year. Has he inspired any songs yet?He kind of forced me to look in a mirror and figure out what I want to do, how hard I want to work, and how deep I can go. How vulnerable can I be as an artist? I’m starting to write songs and let things go, with the intention of teaching him not to be scared and be your own self. He inspired my last album, [last year’s] The Story of Sonny Boy Slim. Songs like Star or Wings were definitely inspired by the thought of him being a part of this world and me being responsible for another human being. He definitely played a part in it and there’s more to come. You have some new stuff coming out soon? I’m working on releasing another live album because those are just fun. And I’m working on another record, and other projects as well. I’ve been working with other artists and experimenting. I’m cooking up right now.