Andrew Wong’s Michie’s sweet and sour ribsI learned the recipe for these ribs while I was in Sichuan and since then it has even found its way to the island of the Seychelles where my sister-in-law Michie makes a special request for them whenever my family and I fly over. I am hoping that, armed with this recipe, she can now make them herself!Serves 4vegetable oil for deep-fryingtoasted sesame seeds 2 tbspsesame oil 2 tbspFor the ribspork ribs 500g, separated into individual ribsspring onion 10g, roughly choppedfresh root ginger 5g, peeled and slicedfermented black beans 5gShaoxing rice wine 1 tbsplight soy sauce 1 tbspdark soy sauce 2 tspsalt 3gFor the sticky saucesugar 500gwater 800mlChinese red vinegar 150mlmalt vinegar 150mlstar anise 5gFor the ribs, mix all the ingredients together and steam over a low heat for 2 hours or until the ribs are tender but just holding on to the bone. Remove the ribs from the steamer and leave to cool and dry.Heat the oil for deep-frying in a deep-fat fryer to 180C. Deep-fry the ribs, in batches, until they darken slightly in colour. Remove from the oil and drain on kitchen paper.If you don’t have a deep-fat fryer, fill a deep pan with oil – the oil should come far enough up the sides of the pan to cover the ribs. However, you can also shallow fry them with a few tablespoons of oil just to crisp up the surface of the ribs.For the sticky sauce, bring all the ingredients to the boil in a large pan, stirring, and cook until the mixture reduces to a honey-like consistency.Add the deep-fried ribs and cook until the sauce sticks to the ribs. Add the sesame seeds and sesame oil to finish.From A Wong – The Cookbook by Andrew Wong (Mitchell Beazley, £25). Click here to buy a copy for £20Jeremy Pang’s steamed wontons in chilli broth      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Martin PooleWhen it comes to learning about Chinese pastries, wontons are the best starting point. The pastry comes ready-made in most Oriental supermarkets, and is very much like an egg pasta. The method of folding below creates a shape much like a gold ingot (pre-20th century Chinese currency) and it is said that if you can fold your wontons in such a shape, you are giving your friends and family plenty of good wealth for years to come!Serves 4garlic 1 clovespring onion 1coriander a large handful, plus extra to garnishChinese chives 10-15dried shiitake mushrooms 3, drained and soakedChinese leaf cabbage 2 leavesraw tiger prawns 150g, peeled and deveined (optional)light soy sauce 1 tbspgranulated sugar ½ tspsesame oil 2 tspwonton pastries 20For the chilli brothchicken stock 200mloyster sauce ½ tbspChiu Chow chilli oil 2 tspFinely chop the garlic, spring onion, coriander, Chinese chives, soaked shiitake mushrooms and Chinese leaves and place in a mixing bowl. Finely dice the prawns (if using) and add to the mixing bowl along with the soy sauce, sugar and sesame oil. Mix everything togetherWrap the wontons. Place 1 teaspoon of filling in the centre of each pastry. Using the tip of your finger, wet all sides of the pastry with cold water.Fold the bottom corner over the filling to the top corner and press the pastry down to seal all sides (to form a triangle). Holding the base of the filling with your thumbs, pull the 2 corners of the triangle towards each other. (In my cookery school, we like to call this the “Dark Knight Rising” as it looks roughly like a Batman shape.)Overlap the ends and press together to form a “gold ingot/trough” shape. Set aside and fold the rest of the wontons.To cook, place all the wontons in a large, deep bowl. Bring the chicken stock to a simmer in a saucepan, then stir in the oyster sauce and chilli oil. Pour the broth ingredients over the wontons.Set the wok up with a steamer stand and fill with boiling water to a third of the way up the sides. Put the wonton bowl into the wok, cover with a lid and steam for 6-8 minutes, until the wontons have shrivelled slightly and are cooked through. Remove from the wok and serve garnished with a little chopped coriander.TIPDumplings can be kept in the freezer once made. They must be cooked from frozen for 2 minutes longer than the recommended cooking time when cooking fresh, rather than allowing them to thaw out and lose their shape.From Chinese Unchopped by Jeremy Pang (Quadrille, £20). Click here to buy a copy for £16Lucky Peach’s kung pao prawns      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Martin Poole for the ObserverKung pao dishes are a celebration of texture, a cascade of crunchy, slippery and crisp that keeps every bite interesting. We’ve made two tweaks to the classic: we dialed the heat down, and swapped the more common chicken for prawns. The prawn substitution we stand by; the chilli heat is your call and very easy to ramp up.Makes 2-4 servingsFor the saucewater 2 tbspsoy sauce 1 tbspShaoxing rice wine 1 tbspChinkiang vinegar 1 tbspsugar 1 tbspsesame oil 1 tspcornflour 1 tspwhite pepper a pinchFor the stir fryneutral oil 3 tbspdried red chillies 10 smallSichuan peppercorns 1 tspminced garlic 2 tspfresh ginger 2 tsp mincedred pepper ½, cut into 1cm piecesgreen pepper ½, cut into 1cm piecescelery 2 stalks, cut into 1cm pieceslarge prawns 450g, shelled and deveinedsea saltspring onions 2, cut into 2.5cm piecesunsalted peanuts 75g, roastedcooked rice for servingMake the sauce: whisk together the sauce ingredients in a small bowl until the cornflour is dissolved. Set aside.Make the stir fry: heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a wok over a high heat. Add the chillies and peppercorns and stir fry until they puff and brown slightly, about 5 seconds. Add the garlic, ginger and peppers and stir fry until the peppers are browned in spots and crisp-tender, about 1 minute. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the mixture to a plate. Add the celery to the pan and stir fry until heated through and charred in spots, about 2 minutes. Transfer to the plate with the peppers.Add the remaining 1 tablespoon oil to the wok. Season the prawns with salt and add to the wok. Stir fry until almost cooked through, about 3 minutes. Return the peppers, celery and spices to the wok.Add the spring onions and peanuts and toss to combine everything. Add the sauce and cook, stirring, until it bubbles and thickens. When the sauce is thick and the prawns are cooked through, remove from the heat. Serve with rice.From Lucky Peach Presents 101 Easy Asian Recipes by Peter Meehan (Random House USA, £25). Click here to buy a copy for £20Erchen Chang and Shing Tat Chung’s pork belly bao      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Martin Poole for the ObserverMakes 15-16 bunsFor the bao bunswhite bread flour 500gcaster sugar 50gsalt 3gbaking powder 4gquick yeast 5glukewarm water 145mlmilk 145mlvegetable oil 15ml, plus extra for greasingFor the char sui pork bellypork belly 500gsalt 1 tspfive spice powder 1 tsppremium soy sauce 2 tspShaoxing rice wine 1 tbsphoisin sauce 2 tbsphoney 2 tbspsugar 2 tbspwater 500mlFor the pickled daikondaikon (mooli) 1 small, peeled and sliced thinly – 2mm thicknessrice vinegar 125mlwater 125mlcaster sugar 1 tbspsalt ¼ tspturmeric powder 1 tspFor the pickled daikon, mix all of the ingredients together and leave to pickle for at least a day.Put the flour, sugar, salt, baking powder and yeast together in a bowl, and add the water and milk to the mix. Combine everything with your hands until it forms a mass. Add the 15ml oil and start kneading the dough for a good 15 minutes until it no longer sticks.Place the smooth dough into a bowl and cover with clingfilm. Let it prove for an hour or until it doubles in size.Once the dough is proved, roll it into a long batten shape and divide the dough with a scraper or knife to 15-16 equal portions. Roll them tightly to form ball shapes.Press the ball and flatten it into oval shapes with a rolling pin. Grease the dough with oil. Pick up the dough and use chopsticks to help fold the dough in halves. Let it rest for a good 15 minutes on baking paper until it’s puffed up again. Make sure there’s enough room in between each dough for them to grow.Meanwhile, bring a pan of water to boil. When the dough is proved, pick them up with the baking sheet still under, place on a steamer over the pan. Let it steam on a high heat for 20 minutes until nice and fluffy. Once steamed, the buns are ready to serve. Or allow them to cool and refrigerate to use at another time.To make the pork, preheat the oven to 100C/gas mark ¼. Pour all the ingredients into a baking dish with the pork belly. Make sure all the belly is covered and cook for 3 hours until very tender to touch. Remove the pork from the sauce. Place the sauce on the hob and reduce until sticky. Slice the pork belly into 1cm slices.To assemble, steam the bun. Brush the pork belly with the char sui sauce. Place the pork and a little pickled daikon into the bao and serve.Bao, 53 Lexington Street, London W1F 9AS;baolondon.comAndrew Wong’s dry-braised beef with oyster sauce and Sichuan pepper      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Yuki SugiuraWhen you see beef in oyster sauce on a menu, it usually means beef slices in an oyster sauce gravy, which may be fine for some occasions, but this tongue-numbingly peppery yet sweet recipe really is the David Beckham of beef in oyster sauce. Using a wok really isn’t a craftless exercise of tossing a metal pan backwards and forwards – there is a fine art to controlling the temperature and knowing the right time to agitate the food in the pan, and this is the dish that first made me appreciate the intricacies involved. It is the dish that really puts my chefs to the test, as the ingredients have to be added in the right order, with each one being cooked at the correct temperature, just enough to release the fragrance but not enough to burn. If they cook this well, I know they can be trusted!Serves 2vegetable oil for deep-frying, plus a drizzlebeef rump 200g, thinly slicedsalt a pinchShaoxing rice wine 2 tsplight soy sauce 1 tsponion 15g, cut into small chunksfresh root ginger 5g, peeled, thinly sliceddried red chilli 2gfresh large red chillies 100g, cut into 1cm sectionsChinese chives a small handfulSichuan peppercorns 3g, ground, toastedsugar 2goyster sauce 2 tsppreserved plum a grating (see below)sea beet leaves to garnish (optional)Heat the oil for deep-frying in a deep-fat fryer to 150C.Season the beef with the salt, wine and soy sauce, then deep-fry, in batches, until it just changes colour. Remove the beef from the oil and drain on kitchen paper.Heat a drizzle of oil in a hot wok, add the onion, ginger and dried chillies and stir fry for about 30 seconds until fragrant.Add the beef, fresh chillies, Chinese chives, Sichuan pepper, sugar and oyster sauce and stir fry for 30 seconds.Finish the dish with a grating of preserved plum before serving immediately, garnished with sea beet leaves, if you like.TIPWhat are preserved plums? They are dried plums that are dusted with sugar, salt, liquorice powder and citric acid. Usually used either as a snack or to infuse drinks with their unique sweet-and-sour fruitiness, they are available from good Chinese supermarkets.From A Wong – The Cookbook by Andrew Wong (Mitchell Beazley, £25). Click here to buy a copy for £20