An hour before we leave our hotel in Biggar to drive to St Andrews, I invite the others on the tour into my room to watch the live broadcast of the opening of the Scottish Parliament at which the new makar, Jackie Kay, is reading her specially commissioned poem, Threshold. It’s a movingly fitting penultimate moment to our strange journey.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest We notice Nicola Sturgeon’s genuine pleasure as she listens to Jackie’s poem, then later quotes Edwin Morgan and Liz Lochhead in her speech to the Queen. I feel warm admiration for this marvellously gifted politician and pride for Scotland, the only country on mainland Britain with its arms open and its head held high.Crossing the old Forth Road Bridge, the blue skies and rolling white clouds are the Saltire’s colours. Approaching St Andrews, a fortnight after we set off from Falmouth and the Atlantic, we see the glittering North Sea to our left, the waves moving in then out. “Shore to unsure,” says Imtiaz Dharker.Carol Ann Duffy introduces poems for our love of bookshops I turn on the BBC news as I change for the evening, only to hear the depressingly sad announcement of the death of Caroline Aherne. Just this morning, on the tour bus, we were (mis)quoting her in reference to the shameful Murdoch press: “So tell me, Jerry Hall, what first attracted you to the octogenarian billionaire Rupert Murdoch?”The last event, for which we are joined by the Scottish poet Robert Crawford, is bittersweet; the light slowly turning its volume down behind the stained glass, last poem read, last curtain call, last book signed. And on the PA, Christy Moore singing Yeats: “And pluck till time and times are done, / the silver apples of the moon, / the golden apples of the sun.” The venue is called – with soundbite irony – Hope Park and Martyrs church.We started this tour in a chorus of celebration, but the key has changed from major to minor and we end in a psalm of consolation – poetry as the music of being human. We’re up and off early next morning and part fondly at Edinburgh airport for London, Cambridge, Cardiff and Manchester. Home will be different when we get there: Corbyn as the new manager of the England football team, perhaps, and Roy Hodgson as Leader of the Labour party … God bless us, every one.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The final evening of the Shore to Shore tour, at Hope Park and Martyrs Church in St Andrews. Photograph: @culturekhan