I was a bit late writing this column because my usual medical problems were compounded by shock on the night of Halloween. My elder daughter had supplied me with a candle-powered pumpkin and a basket of very classy treats, including little chocolates, properly wrapped up. Unfortunately, I had not been supplied with some very necessary information, and had to figure it out for myself during the course of a hectic evening.For the first three or four times the doorbell rang, I almost died of shock each time I opened the door, because I was confronted with a spectacle that convinced me I had been hauled into space and was looking down on bunches of very small people in black, pointed hats and luminous outfits. Numbly, I held out my basket, mumbling something about being too scared to ask for a trick from them, so they’d have to settle for a treat from me. It only slowly occurred to me that I might be suffering from a sudden mental disturbance.On about the fifth occasion, I began to figure out what had happened. For several years previously, I had spent Halloween distributing sweets among a particular group of local children, but this year they all seemed shrunken, as if by a magic wand. What had happened was time. These weren’t the usual bunch of kids: they were their little sisters and brothers, the ones who had previously been carried or propelled in pushchairs. They had now reached the age of dressing up, but looked the wrong size.So I was genuinely alarmed: which isn’t, of course, the idea at all. The idea is to be bogusly alarmed. In previous years, I’d been very good at leaning against the hallway wall, seemingly unable to sustain the shock of being confronted with so much horror. But when one is genuinely shocked, there is a tendency to mumble polite banalities and shuffle away, dazed.Clive James: ‘Picture swaths of Britain where thousands of edible dormice reign supreme’ Luckily, after I figured out that the whole bunch of tiny erstwhile supernumeraries had been zapped by an enlargement ray, I got back into my act. Within the limits dictated by my various ailments, I would open the door, scan the terrifying spectacle clustering before me, and fling myself against the wall with a deep moan of anguish. Dutifully, they pretended to be fooled. Thus, as in all cases of successful histrionics, there was a conspiracy between the performer and the audience.With my equilibrium restored, I terrified my visitors much less. On their painted faces, proper smiles became detectable. After all, they were just dressing up as skeletons and monsters: they weren’t out to scare anybody. Nor was I, I promise.