A century ago, in August 1917, somebody neatly recorded in a new ledger the very first object donated to a new museum: “Life Buoy, Lusitania, sunk by German Submarine 7 May 15. Presented by L Sharpe Esq USA.”The Imperial War Museum, whose creation was authorised by the government on 5 March 1917, now has 32.7m objects in its collection, and the stained and battered buoy – kept as a souvenir by a man whose life it saved when 1,198 others were lost – remains one of the stars.  It had pride of place in the first temporary exhibition, at the Royal Academy in January 1918, and in every display at sites including Crystal Palace – where 3 million visitors came between 1920 and 1924 – before the museum found a permanent home in 1936 in the former Bethlehem mental hospital in Lambeth. The idea for a museum recording the wartime experiences of casualties and survivors, officers and factory workers was first suggested by Sir Alfred Mond in a letter to the Times when Britain was still recovering from the horrors of the Battle of the Somme and, unknowingly, on the brink of another calamity, Passchendaele.“Even with the war still raging, it was recognised that this was something special, the Great War,” Richards said. “It wasn’t something happening to other people far away, like the Boer war, it touched every household in the country, and from the start there was an ambition not just to make it a memorial but to capture that experience.”Mond, later Lord Melchett, was an industrialist, a son of German Jewish immigrants, and as commissioner of works a member of Lloyd George’s wartime government. He followed up his letter with discussions with the government, and became chair of the new museum. It was first known as the National War Museum, and then – because India, Australia, New Zealand and Canada were anxious their experience should be included – became the Imperial War Museum. Its archives include the diary – touchingly spelled “Dairy” on the cover – of the first director, Martin Conway, who went to France to have lunch with Commander-in-Chief Douglas Haig and discuss collecting straight from the battlefields.Lunch within sound of the guns was “chops, cold meat on sideboard, and a tart or so” and coffee served outside under the trees. Richards notes that Conway was impressed, not to say smitten, by Haig, “a tall and fine looking man, with great attractiveness, a charming smile and expression full of sympathy and much lambent play.”The field trip after lunch demonstrated that finding artefacts would be easy: “Boots with feet in them were several times met with … shell cases, shell fragments, fuses, helmets, bayonets, broken rifles, rifle ammunition cast aside, all sorts of stuff. I am sorry that I did not pick up a Bosch helmet with vizor complete which we saw.”The museum sent leaflets to units on active service, and to institutions at home, seeking “equipment, arms, books, documents, original letters, models, personal souvenirs, photographs of officers and men especially those who have won distinction”, and brilliantly had a note asking for donations printed on the back of every ration book. Objects and documents poured in, including a photograph and memorabilia of Major Arthur Septimus Conway, who was killed in Belgium on 17 June 1917 – and who was Martin Conway’s cousin.When the Lusitania sank in the space of 30 minutes off the south coast of Ireland, the casualties included 128 US citizens, a disaster that helped bring the US into the war. The museum’s head of documents, Tony Richards, has gone through the passenger records and found the entire Sharpe family, parents and young son, who all survived and for whom the buoy must have been an extraordinarily precious souvenir. A century later, their gift is displayed in the museum’s first world war gallery.