Last week the long-running Australian short film festival Tropfest announced that, after a tumultuous 12 months, it would be moving from Centennial Park to Parramatta Park in February. The film director and Tropfest board member George Miller welcomed the “widening” of the festival’s audience as “extremely positive” but not everybody was happy – and one Newtown-based film producer, Adam St John, said he would boycott the event.“I won’t go to Parramatta, no way,” St John told the Daily Telegraph. “Everyone [film-makers] is based in the inner city and that’s the place they should be looking to support the emerging artists.”Dubbed a “hipster tantrum” by the paper, St John’s comments sparked a cultural conversation on social media and beyond about the distance – perceived and otherwise – between Parramatta and Sydney’s central business district.“I’m not hating on Parramatta,” St John said on Facebook later but his initial reaction was telling. Tropfest announces move to Parramatta after rocky 12 months Only a 30-minute train ride from Sydney’s Central station, Parramatta enjoys a flourishing cultural life. Forty-five per cent of its residents were born overseas and collectively speak 140 languages. And yet the suburb is still perceived as a “satellite” of Sydney and therefore peripheral.In 2014 the New South Wales government’s A Plan for Growing Sydney tried to bridge the divide, declaring Parramatta would become a “dual CBD city”. Since then, a new national theatre company started work in Parramatta, Sydney festival introduced a new festival hub in Prince Alfred Square, and two inner-city cultural drawcards – Tropfest and the Powerhouse Museum – announced they would move 25km west to what the Greater Sydney Commission calls “Australia’s next great city”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Large-scale fairground Arquitectura de Feria at the 2016 Sydney festival’s inaugural Parramatta festival hub. Photograph: Jamie Williams/Sydney festivalOverseen by Lucy Turnbull, the commission is spruiking Parramatta as a $14bn “tiger economy” whose population is growing at twice the state rate, at 2.5% a year. More people, of course, means a larger market for culture and arts. But when it comes to moving Sydney institutions out of the inner city, St John isn’t the only dissenting voice. Ten thousand people have signed a petition to keep the Powerhouse Museum at Ultimo, and 178 arts and business figures – including Cate Blanchett and the former NSW premier Bob Carr – signed an open letter to protest against the move.Perhaps they, like St John, are “not hating on Parramatta” – but there remain suspicions in Parramatta of Sydney snobbery.A power play for the PowerhouseIn April the deputy premier and NSW arts minister, Troy Grant, announced the Powerhouse Museum’s new site on the Parramatta riverbank. According to Parramatta magazine, the new the Powerhouse Parramatta (part of the Museum of Applied Arts and Science), set to open in 2022, will be a “building to rival the Sydney Opera House”, although the design competition won’t open until early next year. An estimated $640m will be spent on cultural infrastructure in the area, with $1.2bn to be spent overall on the Riverbank precinct, which will also house 1,200 new apartments and 6,000 square metres of retail.When the Powerhouse Museum is torn down, a vital part of Sydney's history goes with it Grant seems unperturbed by a NSW Legislative Council inquiry into the Ultimo site sale, which is due to report in November. “The Powerhouse will move to Parramatta,” Grant tells Guardian Australia. “This is one of the most exciting opportunities to present itself to the arts and cultural sector in a generation.”Many remain unconvinced. The Sydney solicitor Nick Pappas, who chaired the Powerhouse from 2003 to 2010, says the government placed “undue pressure” on the museum’s trustees. “There’s no convincing argument why you sell off and demolish an existing cultural institution that’s been in that precinct for over a century, and move it, holus-bolus, outside the tourist precinct of the city,” Pappas says. “You can say a lot of good things about Parramatta, but you can never assert that it’s part of the touristic precinct of the city.”Instead, Pappas says, Parramatta could have its own museum, or offer a satellite branch of the Powerhouse. “We all know why it’s being shifted – this is a land grab, realising the capital value.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   City of Parramatta administrator Amanda Chadwick, with the site for the new Powerhouse over her right shoulder. Photograph: Steve DowOver a cup of tea in central Parramatta late last week, the city administrator, Amanda Chadwick, is more upbeat. Chadwick, who began in the position in April, lives outside the area: a necessity, she says, to reduce any conflicts of interest in her new role. “Tropfest is an investment in changing the perceptions people might have of Parramatta,” she says, highlighting the area’s “great economic opportunities” and “fantastic liveability”. “We’re not into playing the politics of where dollars get spent,” says Chadwick. “We’re into maximising everything we’ve got.”What they’ve got isn’t much: while western Sydney is home to one in 10 Australians, it attracts only 1% of commonwealth arts program funding and 5.5% of NSW state cultural arts, heritage and events funding – an inequity Parramatta arts companies are hoping to leverage.Graph of Parramatta arts and culture spending.‘We don’t want to be somebody’s sideshow’Inside the Parramatta Artists Studios, one of the 14 studio artists, Pakistan-born Mehwish Iqbal is planning several international shows. Her work examines the impact of migration on identity, and on the table sits an example: a series of little metal-framed houses inside delicately woven papier-mâché, titled Home Away From Home.The studio coordinator, Sophia Kouyoumdjian, grew up in nearby Wentworthville and has moved back to the Parramatta area for the job. More art is being produced and exhibited in the area than ever before, she says. “Inevitably, that is going to change the way people think about cultural experiences in Parramatta, and the city itself.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Artist Mehwish Iqbal, left, stands in front of her embroidered work Memory Collector and Refugee Island, with Sophia Kouyoumdjian at Parramatta Artists Studios. Photograph: Steve DowParramatta Artists Studios sits across the river from Prince Alfred Square, where each October the Parramasala festival of Asian arts is held. Nearby is the Information + Cultural Exchange, which opened in 1984. ICE now has 17 staff who work with migrants, refugees, disadvantaged and Indigenous children, among others. It has an emphasis on teaching digital culture and facilitated this year’s live show Mother’s Spice, which bonded four migrant women from Nepal, Iran, Iraq and Lebanon over food. The exchange’s executive director, John Kirkman, grew up in nearby Granville in the 1960s when the cultural mix was mostly Anglo and southern European. He has seen a huge demographic shift since then. Today he is awaiting a group of 20 schoolboys from Arabic backgrounds who are coming in to learn about opera.“There’s plenty of opportunity [for local artists] here,” Kirkman says. He believes the recent boons for culture in Parramatta are driven by more than money. “I actually think it’s organic, it’s not cynical. It’s tied to economic development, and we argue that cultural development works in parallel.”Like many locals, he doesn’t have time for the inner-city objectors. “Seriously, if film-makers don’t want to bring their work to Parramatta, why would they go to Sundance?” he asks. And on those who protested about the Powerhouse shift: “I don’t think they begrudge Parramatta but there is an element of snide snobbery. They’ll say, ‘Oh, we can have two Powerhouses!’ But we don’t want to be somebody’s sideshow.”A block away in a former Church Street gymnasium is the performing artists’ rehearsal studios set up by Riverside Theatres. The UK-born dancer Tess de Quincey, who commutes from Gladesville in the inner west, is rehearsing Metadata, which combines concepts of maths and cosmology with dance, to premiere at Riverside in September.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tess de Quincey rehearses Metadata in the Riverside Parramatta studios. Photograph: Steve DowParramatta, she points out, was the capital of the colony of NSW in the early 19th century, until governors returned to residing in Sydney in 1846. A hundred and fifty years later, while performing locally in 1996, De Quincey and fellow artists asked audience members what they hated most in the area – and congested Parramatta Road was the top response. So in 2000 her company, De Quincey Co, invited people to walk eight hours from Parramatta’s Church Street to Sydney’s Central station.“You feel shattered at the end, because of the traffic,” she says. But the exercise neatly demonstrated why Parramatta seems so distant from Sydney, at least by car: “Parramatta Road is diabolical.”Untold stories: western Sydney theatre companies put diversity at centre stage De Quincey’s new show is being presented by Form Dance Projects, which was founded in Parramatta in 2000 as a NSW government “outreach” program for western Sydney. Their support has been paramount; De Quincey says it is now very difficult to get inner Sydney arts curators interested in the kind of contemporary dance she creates.Australia and beyondThe jewel in the crown for the arts in Sydney’s west is the National Theatre of Parramatta, which launched this year at Riverside Theatres with funding from Arts NSW, Parramatta council and the Packer Family Foundation. Its artistic director, Joanne Kee, tells the Guardian Australia there are plans in 2018 to tour Stolen, Muruwari playwright Jane Harrison’s 1988 work about the stolen generations which was revived this year by the Wiradjuri director and choreographer Vicki Van Hout.“In 2018 it will be 30 years since Jane Harrison wrote Stolen,” says Kee. “She said the National Theatre of Parramatta’s version was the [most] emotional and visceral version she’s seen of it.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A colonial officer is speared in Jamie Eastwood’s walkway art depicting warrior Pemulwuy’s standoff with authorities. Photograph: Steve DowLike everywhere in Australia, there is significant Indigenous history in Parramatta, much of which is depicted in Ngemba artist Jamie Eastwood’s footpath art along the river walk. There’s the story of the local Burramattagal clan who were devastated by the arrival of European diseases; the standoff with and killing of the warrior Pemulwuy; and Australia’s first school for Aboriginal children, in 1814, known as the Native Institution.“It’s 30 years on [since Stolen was written], and there are more children in custody now. That’s a huge shame,” says Kee. “The play opened up a whole lot of conversations among students studying the text. We had people who had been stolen come to see the show.”Yet while the National Theatre of Parramatta’s ambitions are high, its base right now is modest: its box office turnover is presently about $900,000 a year, compared with $38.3m for the Sydney Theatre Company.“There’s always been the cultural talent out here but in the past, you’ve always had to go into the city to get the networks,” says Kee. “Now people can stay here and create work. We want our work on the world stage.”