When “THE END” came up on screen after the season three finale of Penny Dreadful, it marked not only the denouement of a beautifully-made period horror story but the demise of the show itself. Finally, it has fallen victim to the threat of cancellation that has hung over it from the start. This double-punch hit hard, as season three was bigger and bolder than those that came before, scattering its famous horror characters – from Frankenstein to Dracula and Dorian Gray – far and wide.Splitting up the cast was a gutsy move, especially given the strength of their interplay as a dysfunctional family. Sending Ethan and his companion Hecate off to the wild west proved a refreshing twist on the usual stories of werewolves and witches, the hot desert sun contrasting with gloomy London, where Vanessa was left alone and vulnerable and Dracula finally made his play for her as Lily, Victor Frankenstein, Dorian Gray and Dr Jekyll danced around each other.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An extraordinary hour of TV … Eva Green in ‘she should win all the awards for this’ mode. Photograph: Jonathan Hession/SHOWTIMEAs usual, it was very much the Eva Green show, with the obligatory “she should win all the awards for this” episode coming in the fourth instalment, A Blade of Grass. Set entirely within a cell in an asylum, Green’s Vanessa unlocked troubling memories of her encounters with the demons, figurative and literal, that have plagued her character. Vanessa, trapped in a trance, was met by pre-undead John Clare as kindly hospital worker and channel for both the ethereal Lucifer and his corporeal brother Dracula, a pair of would-be suitors literally from Hell. It was an extraordinary hour of TV.There was still room for everyone else to shine, with Billie Piper parading down Dorian’s dining table, whipping her prostitute army into a killing frenzy. Josh Hartnett got a few fine moments as Ethan too. His blasphemous corruption of the Lord’s Prayer as he said grace at his father’s dinner table was wonderful – “Thy will be spited on Earth as it is in hell” – and his proper version of the same in his final scene with Vanessa was even more powerful.Rory Kinnear’s Frankenstein’s monster proved the most human of all the characters, completing his journey from feared brute to grieving father. His final scenes – consigning his son’s body to the Thames and silently witnessing Vanessa’s funeral from the shadows – were heartbreaking. He had the romantic heart of a poet, underlined by his recitation of Wordsworth’s Ode: Intimations of Immortality that closed the show.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rory Kinnear’s Frankenstein’s monster proved the most human of all the characters. Photograph: Jonathan Hession/SHOWTIMEWe were also introduced to a slew of new characters: Samuel Barnett’s Renfield with his comical attempts to appear normal, repeating phrases like a broken wax-cylinder recording. Rising star Jessica Barden as Justine, Lily’s doomed protege, Shazad Latif’s Dr Jekyll, transforming into Hyde not by diabolic chemistry but by social advancement in an interesting new slant. And the spot-on casting of Brian Cox and Wes Studi as Ethan’s two fathers.Christian Camargo impressed with his turn as an unusually inconspicuous Dracula, gradually turning up the menace during his courtship of Vanessa; flirting around the scorpion exhibits in the museum, having sex among the “night creatures” in the taxidermy room, uttering such sweet nothings as “You are a great fertile bitch of evil”. She didn’t stand a chance.Notable too was such unforgettable horror imagery as the pile of severed hands on Dorian’s table, Vanessa and John Clare writhing like serpents on the cell floor (the tiling reminiscent of reptilian scales), Dracula’s vampiric urchins swarming like rats over a corpse and a sink flooding over with frogs coming up through the drains. I’m not going to make some bold, provocative statement that Penny Dreadful is better than whatever your favourite show is, but it is the one I eagerly awaited each week. It’s the one that impressed me most with its style and execution, that had me on my feet shouting at the screen when disaster frequently befell the characters I was so invested in. And it’s the one I’ll miss the most.