Jamie Oliver has pleaded with the British public to stop Boris Johnson becoming prime minister in the aftermath of the EU referendum.Johnson, a leading figure in the Brexit campaign, is the overwhelming favourite to succeed David Cameron when he steps down.But in an Instagram post, Oliver, who voted to stay in the EU, said that while he could live with the decision of the British public, he could not face Cameron’s fellow old-Etonian being handed the keys to No 10.  “I beg you one thing Great Britain ???? Give me Boris fucking Johnson as our prime minister and I’m done. I’m out. My faith in us will be broken forever. So speak up people – let’s stop being spectators! We can not let this happen – share the shit out of this!! #BuggerOffBoris.” A thought for Great Britain... PLEASE READ.. For the last two years, I have been filming all over the world in places where people live the longest, healthiest, happiest and most productive lives studying there food and culture. And now I finish my journey on the beautiful island of Sardinia, where at the end of the day's filming, as the sun set - I looked back and saw the European flag. For me.. symbolic and very sad. But in life you don't always get what you want. So guys, whether you voted In or Out, we are where we are. But at some point soon we all need to come back together and make the best of what will be a very bumpy 5 years. This referendum has fractured Europe, divided families and split the country. The divorce of our European marriage will be very costly and provoke a bitterness towards us as a trusted country in the world...However I do believe in democracy and Britain has spoken. In my own way I will now roll up my sleeves and work harder than ever to make this work. But I BEG YOU ONE THING GREAT BRITAIN ???? Give me Boris fucking Johnson as our Prime Minister and I'm done. I'm out. My faith in us will be broken forever. So speak up people - let's stop being spectators! We can not let this happen- share the shit out of this !! #BuggerOffBoris  Trust and building relationships is the only currency that really works. (Tune -- #TemperTrap)A video posted by Jamie Oliver (@jamieoliver) on Jun 27, 2016 at 12:23am PDTThe message entitled “A thought for Great Britain” was posted on Instagram on Monday morning. It has already been viewed by more than 150,000 people. However, the ability of Oliver to stop Johnson may be limited as the next prime minister will not be chosen by the British public but by Conservative MPs and party members. Oliver had already hinted at his disdain for Johnson when announcing his intention to vote remain last week. He wrote: “I simply don’t have faith or confidence in the individuals heading up the out campaign to see this through. The EU isn’t perfect but I think we’re stronger together.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘Project fear is over’ says Boris Johnson on Monday morning Despite Johnson being the bookies’ favourite, he will still face a battle to be the next Tory leader.A number of Brexit supporters in the Tory party have suggested that it would not be credible for someone who backed remain to become leader but others are believed to be worried that Johnson could be a liability in office, particularly given the complex negotiations Britain now faces. And many Conservatives who who voted remain are angry about the role he played during the bitter referendum campaign. The home secretary, Theresa May, who took a low-key role in the remain campaign, is seen as the most likely alternative. 