Nicholas Hytner has written about his 12 years in charge of the National Theatre in Balancing Acts. The title refers to “reconciling art with entertainment and adventurous programming with fiscal responsibility”, according to Benedict Nightingale in the Times, who called it an “enjoyable account [which] brings alive the pressures and rewards of running that concrete Oz on the South Bank”. In What’s On Stage, Sarah Crompton praised its prose, “as simultaneously controlled and revealing as Hytner himself. It never dishes the dirt and keeps personal insight and agonised soul-searching to an absolute minimum. But it is revelatory nonetheless, full of anecdotes [and] insight, Hytner’s book is a vital reminder both of what theatre can do – and what is at stake if we take it for granted.” the Mail on Sunday’s Craig Brown hailed “a wonderful book: stimulating, intelligent, gossipy, heartfelt, affectionate, honest and, perhaps above all, fun”. But Hytner’s biggest fan was his friend and predecessor at the National, Richard Eyre, who wrote in the Evening Standard: “The qualities of Hytner’s writing are the qualities of his work as a director – he doesn’t generalise, he’s specific, he’s detailed, he’s witty and entertaining, has an ability to be serious without being portentous, and he’s able to tell a good story. He’s generous without being self-serving and politic without being unctuous.” A standing ovation.Less even-handed but equally popular was Jonathan Meades’ The Plagiarist in the Kitchen. The novelist and former restaurant critic is “as defiant, playful, and possibly punch drunk as ever”, wrote Ian Sansom in the Times Literary Supplement, echoing the Sunday Telegraph’s Lewis Jones, who found Meades “pugnacious” and the book “a sturdy volume, made to withstand the splashes and spills of cooking”. Jones even compared the book favourably with those of Elizabeth David, finding it “quite the funniest I’ve read (which is not saying much), and surprisingly appetising. Its recipes may not be original, but its author certainly is.” The Evening Standard’s Jane Shilling agreed: “Meades is a pungent and vigorous denouncer. The Plagiarist might not look like a working cookbook, but between bursts of explosive provocation, and vaguely disturbing abstract monochrome images, there is plenty to eat.”Sarah Schmidt’s debut novel See What I Have Done takes a new look at the case of Lizzie Borden, who in 1892 was charged with the brutal murders of her father and stepmother. “A disquieting read,” wrote Antonia Senior in the Times. “There is an ambiguity here that reflects the endless, unanswerable speculation about what really happened that day. This open-endedness will irritate some readers; I loved it.” Jake Kerridge in the Sunday Express found it “dignified and sensual, as though Henry James had decided to tell the tale. There are multiple well-characterised narrators and a dreamlike quality to the prose that enhances rather than detracts from the horror at the heart of the story.” For the Observer’s Hannah Beckerman, “Schmidt’s portrayal of Lizzie is haunting and complex, a deeply psychological portrait that forces the reader to question their preconceptions about what women are capable of – for better and worse. Both disturbing and gripping, it is an outstanding debut novel about love, death and the lifelong repercussions of unresolved grief.”