The third episode of the third series of bracing, 1960s-set Morse prequel Endeavour, which has just ended on ITV, was called Prey. That its chief murder suspect was a tiger need not detain us here. What might, however, is a night-time scene in the woods during which a group of Oxford hippies drink, toke and play the acoustic guitar around a campfire. A young woman makes eyes at a young man over the embers, stands up and runs off, disrobing in readiness for a nocturnal dip in the river. The man fails to join her because he is too drunk to take off his shoes and socks. Anyone else getting a Jaws flashback?Endeavour: an inspector recalled Later, after a severed arm is discovered by a distressed PC, who frantically blows her police whistle – another straight reconstruction from Spielberg’s shark film – pathologist Max de Bryn is recalled from a fishing trip (geddit?) to examine the limb (a direct pastiche of the scene in Jaws with oceanographer Richard Dreyfuss). Series creator and sole writer Russell Lewis even quotes the Jaws screenplay by Carl Gottlieb and Peter Benchley when De Bryn notices “portions of denuded bone remaining”. Widening the referential net further, members of a search party in the woods shout, “It’s in the trees! It’s coming!” – a quotation from 1957 horror movie Night of the Demon (best known as a sample from Kate Bush song Hounds of Love). There will be a test at the end. One I might not pass.I knew already that Endeavour was clever and threw forward to Morse, in the gleeful manner of every TV prequel from Better Call Saul and Hannibal to Rock & Chips and First of the Summer Wine, but this was a level of metatextuality that had previously passed me by. The scene in the episode Arcadia in which Morse is almost seduced by an older woman? The Graduate. All that stuff in the opener about the rich neighbour’s wild parties at a big house on a lake? The Great Gatsby. The final episode recycled tropes from Dog Day Afternoon, Die Hard, Dirty Harry, Reservoir Dogs and Terry Pratchett’s Discworld series (a reference to “Sergeant Vimes of Cable Street”, paying homage affectionately to Commander Sir Samuel Vimes). Whoever said TV was a passive medium?I ask Russell Lewis whether he consciously raised the number of allusions for this series of Endeavour. “Perhaps the sources were more well known this time around,” he concedes, reminding me that the episodes have always included what Lewis calls “grace notes and finials”. This goes right back to the pilot in 2012, which nodded to Philip Larkin, Harold Pinter and Angus Wilson, and is in the spirit of Colin Dexter’s Morse novels, with their “mischievous quotations and chapter headings”, and indeed composer Barrington Pheloung’s use of Morse code in his theme tunes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Gala Gordon as Verity Richardson in Endeavour episode Arcadia.That said, for Lewis, it’s not simply a case of picking a film and crowbarring it in. The “intertextual references” present themselves as he goes through the various script drafts. Part of it is about “catching something of the spirit of the age”. “For instance, the Gatsby story sprang as much from personalities and events surrounding the so-called Mayfair or Clermont set as it did from The Great American Novel – chiefly, gambler and zoo owner John Aspinall, a self-made man if ever there was one,” Lewis says. The tiger in Prey was a reference to Longleat (which opened in 1966) and The Jungle Book (which was released in 1967).It’s a fascinating methodology, one that deserves repeat viewings, which is good value in a disposable, here-today-gone-tomorrow culture. It’s not dryly academic either; the Mrs Robinson scene marks the death of director Mike Nichols while they were making series three. “He was a hero – and The Graduate came out in 1967, so, again, it was a respectful tip of the hat: there if you want it, but we won’t be docking any points if you don’t. It’s always the straight whodunnit that comes first. You shouldn’t have to recognise any of the links or connections to enjoy it or solve the central crime.”I was worried that referencing Jaws might be the metatextual equivalent of jumping the shark, but the final heist episode packed an emotional punch and left fans baying for more. There was still space for a final reference, though. The tear-jerking coda turned out, on forensic examination, to have been based on the lyric to the Beatles’ She’s Leaving Home (“Father snores as his wife gets into her dressing gown/Picks up the letter that’s lying there”) – released, naturally, in 1967.