Toys are getting smarter. Whether they are racing cars that “read” the track, robots that teach coding or ground-drones controlled with the swipe of an iPad, these “connected” playthings have been proclaimed as the future of the toy industry.For parents concerned about the amount of time their kids spend in front of a screen, connected toys offer a welcome and reassuring physicality: the toy is the focus, the app merely the control panel. For their children, it means (effectively) getting a pet robot. Which is why brands such as Sphero and Anki are set to dominate 2016 Christmas lists. But the question remains: how much fun are these digitally driven playthings? We asked Louis (10), Phoebe (10), Eliza (eight) and Max (seven) to help us find out.Dash (pictured top)Wonder Workshop, £149.95, 5+It feels incongruous that the robot aimed at the youngest children should also be the most expensive, but Wonder Workshop’s Dash certainly boasts production value with its hard, polished chassis and Minion-esque features and vocalisations, even if all our kids bar one (Eliza) deemed these “creepy” rather than rather than appealing.There is further cost in the peripherals (sold separately) that clip on to its body, such as a ping-pong-ball-catapulting launcher or a xylophone, but it does come with building-block attachments that Eliza delightedly discovered could shoulder homemade Lego-constructed add-ons.There is also an impressive array of apps that you can download in addition to the control panel that allow for coding, path-making and “guided challenges”. The boy/girl divide was notable with Dash; Louis and Max were dismissive, while Eliza was positively charmed.Eliza’s verdict: “He looks really cute, a bit like a Minion and a blueberry mixed together. I liked playing with him, especially the coding game, which made him move around the room. I think people my age would like him as he’s very funny, especially in disco mode, when he turns all sorts of colours and starts grooving.”Jimu Robot Meebot KitUbtech, £109.95, 8+      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Max with the Jimu Robot Meebot Kit. Photograph: Karen Robinson for the ObserverWell, this one isn’t going to win any beauty contests, that’s for sure. The Meebot starts its artificial life as a construction kit, which requires a patient older child or adult to snap its components together, carefully connecting up a sextet of servo motors.On its first test drive, our Meebot shuffled along like a drunk with his trousers around his ankles, then fell over and started making distressing clacking sounds. But after one misaligned leg servo was eventually sorted out, it was able to waddle along without its grey box-head butting the floor, even pulling off dance moves like a stiff-limbed Cossack. Until the kids rapidly and unanimously lost interest.Max’s verdict: “I don’t like it when people say something bad about him. It makes me feel really sad, because he’s so cute. But there aren’t that many things you can do with him. The coding was fun at first, but then it does get a little bit boring. And I don’t really like the way he moves around.”Anki Overdrive Super TruckAnki, RRP £49.99-59.99, 8+      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Louis with the SPRK+ robotic ball and Anki Overdrive Super Truck. Photograph: Karen Robinson for the ObserverAnki’s smart racing cars have already proved a hit with children since they first arrived in late 2013 and with good reason: they offer the ideal blend of the physical and the virtual. As their artificially intelligent autos battle it out on modular tracks (which can be bought as a starter set with two cars for about £140), players can customise their driver avatar, level up their vehicles’ abilities and weaponry and interact with non-player-character rivals, all through the slickly designed Anki app.The Super Truck, then, is simply a new vehicle for the existing system. Both models, the X-52 and the Freewheel, bring a new control system and game mode (called Takeover) to the Anki experience, though, as Phoebe notes, they do little to encourage more girls to play. “If you watch the advert it’s only got one girl using it,” she points out. “All the rest are boys.”Louis’s verdict: “I think Anki Overdrive is brilliant for families – adults and children – and unlike Scalextric it will never get boring for me. The addition of the Super Trucks is brilliant, too.”SPRK+ (pictured above)Sphero, £119.99, 8+ Sphero made an impact on Xmas budgets last year with its app-controlled BB-8 toy and here’s the latest iteration of its own robotic ball of fun, the SPRK+. Even without the Star Wars trimmings and with its circuitry on display through a transparent plastic shell (which can be covered up with a protective sheath, sold separately), our testers quickly warmed to it as it whirled and tumbled around the play area.The SPRK+ is versatile and, thanks to its engaging, Scratch-like block-based computer coding system, it was the toy that held attention longest. Louis soon had it autonomously zipping around and yelling “ouch!” on impact with obstacles, then downloaded another user’s program via Sphero’s Lightning Lab app to turn it into a fortune-telling ball giving yes or no answers.Louis’s verdict: This is so much more fun than coding with Scratch, because you’re coding a real object. And I like how you can go online and take other people’s programs. It’s a really nice design, too, and overall the best toy we’ve got here. Totally worth the money in my opinion.”Jett Jumping Race DroneParrot, RRP £99.99, 14+      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Phoebe with the Jett Jumping Race Drone. Photograph: Karen Robinson for the ObserverParrot specialises in entry-level flying drones, but has here brought things down to kid-friendly ground level. The box advises it’s a 14+ toy and there was an initial wariness among our junior testers of its jittery, insect-like manoeuvres, electronic growls and skull-like face. But once they’d got hands-on with the app’s simple touchscreen controls (which connect via its own Wi-Fi network rather than Bluetooth), it wasn’t long before the zippy and thankfully durable machine was being joyfully directed to use its floorboard-thumping “foot” to bound over and on to furniture in a series of impressive stunts. In very brief bursts, though: the big drawback here is the Jett’s limited battery life – only 20 minutes.Phoebe’s verdict: “It’s my favourite out of all the toys here. I was quite scared of it at first – when we were testing the robots it started hitting all the others – but now I think it is in some ways charming. It’s light on its feet and quite bouncy and it’s really cool because you can film things with its camera.”