Pinewood studios considers £350m sale Once you’ve established your bona fides at the security gate – there to deter both the rubbernecker and the obsessed movie fan – and you step inside the gate of Pinewood Studios, it’s clear that this well-manicured set of low-rise sheds and warehouses is a long way from the ramshackle film studios of yore. Perched on the edge of a country park in rural Buckinghamshire, Pinewood hums with a respectful, well-fed purposefulness, testament to its place as the chosen location for forthcoming international mega-productions such as Rogue One, Doctor Strange and Assassin’s Creed.Any possible sale, therefore, would seem to be of a property of considerable value – a true “trophy asset” as City analysts are calling it. Like any major British studio with its roots in the classic era, it can boast a string of productions that reflect the ups and downs of the British film industry, from Powell and Pressburger’s Black Narcissus and The Red Shoes in the immediate postwar period, to 1950s hits such as Doctor in the House and Reach for the Sky, and 60s industry staples such as the Carry On films and the Bond series. In the 70s and 80s, when the domestic industry was in the doldrums, it still played host to the Hollywood productions Superman, Aliens and Batman – like many a British studio, it sold itself to Hollywood on the strength of the industry-wide appreciation for British crews and their professionalism.The modern Pinewood works in a similar way: its ability to tempt Hollywood cash via what the film industry calls “inward investment” – your Star Wars: The Force Awakenses and Prometheuses – goes hand in hand with the tax credit system instigated by Gordon Brown during the New Labour years and so enthusiastically continued by George Osborne.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Past cinematic glories, such as Powell and Pressburger’s Black Narcissus, make Pinewood studios one of the British film industry’s ‘trophy assets’. Photograph: ITV/Rex ShutterstockExactly how much this system benefits homegrown film-makers is open to question: it supports job opportunities for British crew members, for sure (lots of whom, over the decades, have made their homes in the small towns and villages to the north and west of London). But the vast profits from such films don’t feed back, or trickle down, into Britain; they are simply repatriated to the US, as the Kick-Ass director Matthew Vaughn pointed out earlier this year in a Radio 4 programme. “We’re subsidising Hollywood,” he said. “We’re service providers. We’re not an industry.” In Pinewood’s defence, however, it operates a funding arm called Pinewood Pictures, which puts money into smallish British films, whose notable titles include The Riot Club, Belle and Kill Your Friends – so at least the studio can say it’s trying to do its bit.Credit rating: why George Osborne has got his name on Star Wars: The Force Awakens The timing of the sale also seems odd: Pinewood not long ago announced sizeable expansion plans, a £200m scheme called the Pinewood Studios Development Framework, designed to add over 30,000 square metres of studio space over the next 15 years. Any boardroom upheaval could easily put such ambitious plans in jeopardy, but you have to assume that any future shareholders will want to see Pinewood keep going down the same route. Otherwise, a blue-chip company that has ballasted much of the film activity in the UK will be imperilled. And nobody wants that.