Some of the most highly anticipated awards contenders this season are set to premiere at the Telluride film festival in Colorado over the next few days.Festival fever: 40 films we predict will premiere at Venice, Toronto and Telluride The mountain-set weekender, known for its relaxed atmosphere and legacy of offering first looks at best picture winners, has pipped later festivals to the post with Sully, Clint Eastwood’s drama based on the 2008 plane crash in the Hudson river, starring Tom Hanks.The drama co-stars Aaron Eckhart, who also features in another world premiere: Bleed for This, a boxing movie with Miles Teller. Perhaps the most eagerly awaited on the schedule is Moonlight, Barry Jenkins’s drama tracing a black gay man over 30 years; close behind is Una, an adaptation of the play Blackbird, about a reunion between a young woman and an older man who were once in an illegal relationship. The film features Rooney Mara and Ben Mendelsohn.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Maudie stars Sally Hawkins as Canadian folk artist Maud Lewis, who had acute arthritis, and Ethan Hawke as her angry fish-seller husband, and also screens for the first time. Another marital drama playing is Wakefield, with Bryan Cranston as a man who starts to spy on his wife, played by Jennifer Garner. Many of these titles will go on to play at the Toronto film festival around a week later, including Norman: The Moderate Rise and Tragic Fall of a New York Fixer, with Richard Gere as a reprobate fixer for the New York Jewish community. Michael Sheen, Josh Charles, Steve Buscemi and Charlotte Gainsbourg co-star. At last year’s festival, a proposed premiere of Amazing Grace had to be pulled after legal objections from its subject, Aretha Franklin. Such issues seem to be ongoing, despite the film featuring in the schedule. A statement from Telluride issued on Thursday said:  The Festival respects the decision of the court and the rights and wishes of all parties involved. The Festival will continue to reserve a space for the title in its program guide should the legal situation change and should the parties all agree that the film may be screened.  Fisher and Reynolds in Bright LightsOther key documentary premieres include Bright Lights, about the relationship between Debbie Reynolds and her daughter, Carrie Fisher; Into the Inferno, Werner Herzog’s study of volcanos, and The B Side, Errol Morris’s study of photographer Elsa Dorfman.The festival will be presenting its Silver Medallion to Casey Affleck (whose Manchester-by-the-Sea screens), Amy Adams (in town with Arrival) and Pablo Larraín, who will be screening Cannes hit Neruda.• Telluride film festival, Colorado, runs from 2 to 5 September.