Geri’s 1990s: My Drive to Freedom 9pm, BBC2In which Geri Horner, AKA Ginger Spice, revisits the 1990s, the decade when she cavorted in a union flag and helped launch girl power at the wider world. The title, consciously or not calling to mind Nelson Mandela’s Long Walk, is perhaps a trifle tasteless, but Geri has quite some personal and pop culture story to tell as she recalls her Cool Britannia years. Wallow in the nostalgia: back then, things could only get better … JWDogs Behaving Badly 6.05pm, Channel 4Affable trainer Graeme “The Dogfather” Hall says he can make any dog behave, but after some of the furry menaces he encounters here he might eat his words. There’s a whopping great dane who likes to intimidate people, a food-stealing labrador and a poodle who’s jealous of his owner’s boyfriend. Can the dogs and their owners be trained? If you prefer your canines a little better behaved, it’s the final of Crufts this weekend, too. HVAnt & Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway 7pm, ITVNo stone has gone unturned to help SNT capture the essence of the classic variety shows it aims to emulate. Tonight, Steps join the pair for the karaoke-with-peril segment Singalong Live and there’s another episode of miniseries The Missing Crown Jewels. Starring Emilia Fox and Joanna Lumley as chiefs of secret organisation The Honoured, it’s an excuse for plenty of cameo appearances, and is actually quite a lot of fun. JRThe Voice UK 8.30pm, ITVThe live knockout stages of the relocated talent show continue. This week, Will.i.am is the coach seeking to halve his current stable of six hopefuls via one-on-one sing-offs. Public voting will decide the top two talents who progress to the next phase, with the third survivor selected by the pragmatic cyber-pop omni-mogul himself. Heartstring-tugging backstories are unlikely to help in this regard; the Black Eyed Peas man rarely gets sentimental. GVFollow the Money 9pm, BBC4There’s a certain deadpan naturalism about the delivery of Scandinavian dramas that lends them a superior air of authenticity, but this Danish drama about criminal activity in the renewable energies business is a touch too dry for some. This week, Claudia has a breakthrough in her search for employment, tensions arise between Nicky and Bimse following the assault case, while the Fraud Squad start to unravel the dubious activities of the Nova Bank. DSStorm Cats 8pm, Nat Geo WildFor a few weeks each year, the lives of Botswana’s big cats are upended by the wet season’s violent storms. Adapted to the dry plains and unsettled by the weather and the changing landscape – the youngest have never seen rain before – leopards, lions and cheetahs struggle to hunt effectively. But they do not have the luxury of waiting out the rains, leaving them fighting for survival. Sadly, lovely photography clashes with an irritating voiceover. BAInside The Gangsters Code 9pm, QuestLouis Ferrante’s world tour of organised crime arrives in Poland, on the trail of the notorious Grypsers. Rising to prominence following the fall of communism, the Grypser gang now dominate the Polish underworld. Ferrante connects with gang members, visits the notorious Nowogard Prison, meeting former mobsters-turned-informers and a Grypser amphetamine cook. In short, enough material to terrify a Daily Mail reader for weeks. MGJFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mesmerising … Moira Shearer as Victoria Page in The Red Shoes. Photograph: Publicity image from film companyThe Red Shoes, (Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, 1948), 1.30pm, BBC2The melodramatic tale of Moira Shearer’s ballet student, torn between the conflicting demands of her art (personified by Anton Walbrook’s autocratic impresario) and love for composer-husband Marius Goring, is one of P&P’s finest. A stunning study of the world of ballet, with mesmerising dances and Oscar-winning designs. Paul HowlettRoom, (Lenny Abrahamson, 2015), 9pm, Channel 4A woman and her son are locked in a 10 sq ft room for years by a psychotic captor: it’s the stuff of modern gothic horror, but Abrahamson directs so skilfully that it becomes a life-affirming parable of the triumph of the human spirit, and of maternal love. He’s helped by extraordinary performances from Brie Larson as Ma and Jacob Tremblay as the five-year-old Jack, for whom the squalid world of “Room” is entirely normal. PHLand of the Dead, (George A Romero, 2005), 10pm, SyfyThis late addition to Romero’s zombie trilogy is as stomach-churningly gruesome a satire as you could hope for. The monsters still lurch and munch on body parts, but now the survivors are split between the well-protected capitalists, led by the scenery-chomping Dennis Hopper, and the poor, endangered drones who service them: zombie horror for the post-9/11, down-with-Bush era. PHLive sportFA Cup Football: Middlesbrough v Manchester City 11.45am, BT Sport 2 Guardiola’s City visit struggling Middlesbrough in the Cup.Six Nations Rugby Union: England v Scotland 3.30pm, ITV The leaders play at Twickenham. Preceded by Italy v France.Boxing: Craig Kennedy v Stephen Simmons 10.15pm, Channel 5 A bout for the British cruiserweight title from Motorpoint Arena in Cardiff. 