Katharine Whitehorn’s bestselling guide to cookery without a kitchen, Cooking in a Bedsitter (1961), is about to return in a Radio 4 comedy drama starring Beattie Edmondson as a lonely girl in London rescued by cunning recipes and a young Indian medical student who lives across the landing, played by Nikesh Patel. Whitehorn, now in her late 80s, became an Observer columnist in 1960; her weekly column currently appears in the Observer Magazine. She lives in north London.Did you ever live in a bedsitter?I did – when I first came to London, it was in a posh place, in Notting Hill – and the priceless thing was that I had a piece of what had once been a ballroom. The kitchen was downstairs. I had to carry things down to do the washing-up. My landlady would say: “If you’d take your things down a bit more often, you would not break so much each time.” I also lived in another bedsit, which was nice but further out, where I used to throw dinners together for my then chap. By the time I wrote the book, I wasn’t in a bedsit at all. I was married and had a decent kitchen. The book came about because the publisher said he and his mates were all in bedsits and there were plenty of books around but they all assumed you had a kitchen. I’ve no idea how or why he got hold of me. But one can try recipes out anywhere. My husband used to say 'When you’re cooking, nobody can tell you that you ought to be working' In 1981, you and your late husband, crime writer Gavin Lyall, bought a boat. That must have been rather like cooking in a bedsitter?By the time we got the boat, we’d been married a long time. Dick and Mary Francis had a boat, took us on it and later lent it to us. And then we had to have one. I remember Gavin writing to his parents saying: “Kath is behaving like a kitten learning to swim in cream, making lists of things to take aboard the boat…” It was absolutely splendid. The boat was called Simpkin and was heaven. When people occasionally ask when I was most happy, the answer is always: “On the boat.” It was clear who the captain was – and it was not me – so that was another good thing. There were hotplates and what was nice was that you could have a really hot coffee. At that time, we were both drinking. Gavin drank too much and stopped as it was making him ill. After that, he was greatly given to saying: “Kath, I don’t know how you stood it when I was drinking,” meaning: “I don’t know how I stand it when you are drinking.” Nowadays, I drink a lot of wine but do not have any stronger stuff.Was it considered very daring to invite a man back to the bedsit – and how much have things changed?Well, yes – I went back to Newnham, Cambridge recently [where she was an undergraduate] and though I didn’t say it, the main difference was simply this: when I went up in the 40s, all the blokes had been in the forces and they knew a lot of things they were anxious to teach us – which was damn good. In my day, the girls would not have known as much as girls do now.What I love is the way that, in the book, you make the single girl’s life sound like an amiable and slightly frantic con trick. What sort of a cook are you now?I’ve recently found a really good outfit, Share and Care, which matches young people who need somewhere cheap to live with older people who want someone around. I have an Australian actress who is great fun and cooks – which is great. My husband was a good cook. He used to say: “When you’re cooking, nobody can tell you that you ought to be working.” He liked to take as long as he possibly could – I was the exact opposite. He used to do a Dutch dish that takes days to prepare – precisely because it took so long.Did any of the cooks whose recipes you plundered in the book grumble?No, none did. I knew Elizabeth David a bit – she was very nice and had nice chaps and so forth. I still have a plate she gave me. On one occasion, I was sharing an office with Cyril Ray [food and wine journalist]. I was fool enough to have Cyril Ray and Elizabeth David together to dinner. I gave them my first and best starter: devils on horseback – it still works very nicely. It is supposed to be fresh but I got my oysters out of a tin. Idiotic of me to have them both – they were very disapproving of anything in a tin. However, they did eat it.Rules of the game | Katharine Whitehorn You have always had a great sense of style and as we talk I keep admiring the beautiful pendant you are wearing…It was a gift from one of my sons – Jake. He is an actor and between jobs, as well as having been a pilot and worked in computers – I used always to say “Why don’t you just do what other actors do and wait on tables?” – he sold these pendants. [Whitehorn also has an older son, Bernard, who is a film editor.]You once wrote a brilliant article about being bereaved in the Observer. Is living on your own an art – something everyone should learn?It may be an art. It is a question of what surrounds you. I’m so glad to live in this road. We all know each other, my neighbour has my keys, I do a Christmas party, we’re opposite a church. I am not C of E but, fortunately, our clergyman is a musician and has concerts and we all go to them. I don’t feel as alone as I might otherwise have done.Having helped so many readers, have you found solace yourself in any particular book?GK Chesterton – I’ve read everything he wrote. And I could recite to you almost everything – don’t worry, I won’t – by AE Housman. Learning stuff by heart is very good for when you are bored or have nothing to read. My father taught classics at Mill Hill school and encouraged learning by heart.Has cooking in bedsits changed completely now?Some fairly obvious things in a frying pan go on for ever. But the great change is one can buy ready-made stuff. Gavin has been dead for 12 years and obviously I couldn’t avoid cooking all that time and there have been times when I have been interested, but not now [she points at a microwave in the corner]. But the thing about Cooking in a Bedsitter was that you didn’t have to be terribly, terribly clever – you just had to be terribly hungry.Cooking in a Bedsitter by Sue Teddern, inspired by Katharine Whitehorn’s book, begins on Monday 28 November at 11.30am on BBC Radio 4 