 JK Rowling has pleaded with theatregoers fortunate enough to have tickets for the West End play that continues the story of Harry Potter as a grownup not to spoil the plot for others by revealing its details online.Reduced price previews for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child at the Palace Theatre begin on Tuesday, with the author and production team also asking newspaper theatre critics to wait eight weeks before publishing reviews.“You’ve been amazing for years at keeping Harry Potter secrets so you didn’t spoil the books for readers who came after you,” she said in a video message. “So I’m asking you one more time to keep the secrets and let audiences enjoy Cursed Child with all the surprises that we’ve got to the story.” J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling)Potter fans have always had each other’s backs. Today I’m asking you to #KeepTheSecrets of #CursedChild https://t.co/0Vbl3zwN6bJune 6, 2016The impact of leaks on social media will arguably be heightened given that the play will not premiere until 30 July. West End theatre shows typically spend a fortnight in preview, giving the actors time to master their performances. It is not certain how successful the request will be. Benedict Cumberbatch’s Hamlet was at the centre of a row last year when two newspapers, including the Times, broke the convention of not writing about it until the end of a preview period.Casting a spell: meet the characters of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Leaks or otherwise, hostile online comments or bad reviews are unlikely to affect ticket sales. The play, which will run until next May, has already sold out with the first 175,000 tickets bought within 24 hours of going on sale in October, and tickets are being auctioned on eBay for as much as £600.Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is set 19 years after the seventh and final book in the series, which has sold more than 450m copies since 1997 and been adapted into eight films. Like many of his fans, Potter has now grown up and has three children with his wife Ginny Weasley, the sister of his friend Ron, and is working at the Ministry of Magic.The anticipation has been building for months, not least among its stars, including Jamie Parker, the 36-year-old actor who plays Potter. “These are stories that people have lived with for their whole lives, they’ve grown up with and now they’re adults rejoining the tale, picking it up where they left off – and I’m one of them,” he told the official Pottermore website.Harry Potter leaks are nothing new – although they have not always been successful. The UK spy agency GCHQ intervened to help prevent the sixth Harry Potter instalment leaking after it appeared that an early copy of the book had been posted on the internet. They contacted the publisher but it turned out to be a fake. Internet pirates did manage to infiltrate the £10m security operation surrounding the publication of the seventh book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, with photos of pages and chapter headings appearing online. JK Rowling: ‘Harry Potter’s world is always in my head’ The Cursed Child show is written by English screenwriter and playwright Jack Thorne, based on an original story co-written with Rowling and John Tiffany, who is directing the play.After the Cumberbatch leak, the Times was accused of trying to point score against its rivals by giving the play a two-star review.Rowling is not in uncharted territory, however. Producers of Agatha Christie’s The Mousetrap have been asking theatregoers to keep the ending of the whodunnit secret for decades.“We’ve asked people to keep our secret for the past 64 years and they do because they have had a good time at the show and they want their friends to enjoy it too. If that is right too for Harry Potter fans, then that is a good omen,” said Stephen Waley-Cohen, the producer of The Mousetrap since 1994.