A few weeks ago, at a jazz concert in Los Angeles, I was just sitting there listening to a sax solo and thinking: “My God, my bladder couldn’t be more full. I’ve got to get out of here or I’m going to burst a gasket.” Then I suddenly saw this hand dancing across a drum and it just took hold of me.The hand was fluttering like a butterfly and the light was coursing through. “What am I going to do?” I thought. “I’m loaded up with urine – but this picture has to be made.” So I got down in a crouch and just managed to hold on until the hand appeared in that surreal way. Then I shot to the bathroom, only just making it.I’ve photographed musicians all my life, but it’s often just standard fare. Finding a moment or a composition that really captures the music itself is very hard. On that night, I felt the players gave me something transcendent: an experience that could be turned into something visual. Good photography is like a song, a song you can see. It could be a face, an eye, a chair. You wriggle around, in space, until that object says something about our reality, until a series of objects seen together gain a certain melody.When I was 17, I photographed beatniks in New York. I thought I was one of them. I didn’t really know what I was doing, but I knew I was serious about it. I smoked a lot of pot. I was angry. I couldn’t articulate how I felt. I grunted and groaned and thought I was hip. I didn’t look at those pictures for 20 years, but now I find them gracious and beautiful. There was an analytical process going on, in visual terms, even though I wasn’t aware of it. If I met that kid now, I’d tell him to improve his posture. He was always slouching over the piano because he thought it looked good. And I’d ask him where his self-esteem is. I think he’d tell me to fuck off. I was raised a communist. My mother was a member of the party. But she was elegant, she wore furs, she loved beautiful things and going to see jazz with my father. She was a Mink Marxist and I guess I was too. So I was raised to have ideological disdain towards the upper classes. And yet, at the same time, I was interested in luxury, in pleasure. I’ve photographed a lot of famous, fancy people, spent a lot of time in Hollywood. When I first got there, I’d never worn a tuxedo and didn’t want to. I started flying about on jets, staying in hotels, doing great work, living in a way that seemed impossible. I learnt to wear a tux – always – to every party. Now I live in a barn in Pennsylvania and I don’t miss any of it.I’ve been taking pictures for 57 years. Today I teach photography. It’s made me more interested in nuance. I tell my students that photography is always based on experience. Photography for photography’s sake is not going to benefit you. By making a photograph, you ask a question of life. I give thanks for having always understood that. It’s what allowed me to become a photographer. I’d thank the lord as well, but I don’t believe in him. Fuck it, let’s thank him anyway.Larry Fink’s CV  ‘I smoked a lot of pot. I was angry’ … Larry FinkBorn: Brooklyn, 1941.Studied: Studied privately with the photographer Lisette Model.Influences: Brassaï, Caravaggio, Goya, Lisette Model, Robert Motherwell, Mark Rothko, Coltrane, Art Tatum, Steve Lacy, Thelonious Monk, John Steinbeck, and Donald Antrim.High point/low point: “There is no way to say for either. My life has simply been informed by flow points.”Top tip: “Don’t despair. Human beings are deeply flawed. The only reason for living is to hope.”