‘When you put (a hoodie) on, with the hood … the whole thing moves up. It gives you that attitude.” Those are the words of Demna Gvasalia, the Vetements and Balenciaga designer, explaining the current appeal of the hoodie earlier this month. The hoodie, he told the New York Times, is “a very complex garment”.Gvasalia’s adoption of “that attitude” has raised interests and eyebrows. As an unofficial sequel to the alpha, oversized black piece worn by Kanye West and Rihanna, the hoodies that Vetements debuted at Paris fashion week were playfully nihilistic. There was a cherry-red one bearing the legend: “MAY THE BRIDGES I BURN LIGHT THE WAY”, and the aubergine bomber hoodie that featured the ghoulish message “Drink from me And live forever”, which unintentionally recalled the climatic scene in Zoolander 2. Both were worn with the hoods very much up.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Vetements hoodie, AW16, at Paris fashion week, March 2016. Photograph: Rex/ShutterstockThat black metal aesthetic was in stark contrast to the hoodie’s appearance in public life a few weeks later: worn by Jamie Oliver (in grey) as he celebrated the implementation of the sugar tax. In 2016 everybody wears a hoodie. “Having a hoodie in a fashion range now is the norm,” says Claudine Rousseau, who teaches fashion sportswear design at the London College of Fashion. “It’s like having jeans in your range.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Princess Diana as a toddler at Park House, Sandringham in Norfolk, 1964. Photograph: Central Press/Getty ImagesIt is, you’d imagine, what the New York label Champion dreamed of when it created the hoodie in the early 1930s as a piece of sports and utility wear. When the brand began selling them, they did well with students and labourers, before they started being worn by members of the upper class on both sides of the Atlantic.“For decades and decades, the hoodie had a reputation of being worn by sporty, preppy people and British Peerages,” says Alison Kinney, author of Hood. She adds that a few years ago Vogue published a photograph from the early 60s of Princess Diana as a toddler wearing a black hoodie.Hood by Alison Kinney review – power, anonymity … what do hoods symbolise? By the 70s, the meaning of the hoodie was morphing into what we associate it with today. On the silver screen, icons including Rocky Balboa and Obi-Wan Kenobi were wearing them victoriously and transformatively, while back on the home front they had become everyday wear. “That’s when the switchover happened,” says Rousseau. “It went from being an item of sportswear to being worn as an item of normal clothing and, ultimately, a part of the working-class uniform.”The new visual identity (Adidas hoodie, joggers and a pair of Reeboks) appeared without reference to sport. “By the early 80s no one was sweating in their hoodies, they were wearing them in the daytime around the house.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alec Guinness as Obi-Wan Kenobi in Star Wars Epiisode IV: A New Hope. Photograph: Allstar/LUCASFILM/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarIt was also the beginning of the demonisation of the garment. Things crescendoed in the noughties, when “hoodie” became a pejorative term. With Tony Blair pushing his agenda against binge-drinking youths, the garment evoked “the culture of disrespect”. Bluewater shopping centre in Kent banned them in May 2005, while some police forces implemented a stop and search policy over teenagers who wore them. “Hoodies” (spelt with a horrified capital H), we were being told, were now a marauding youth tribe intent on destroying the essential fabric of our society.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Cameron encounters Ryan Florence, 17, in Manchester, 2007, not long after he urged more understanding of why young people turn to crime. Photograph: Martin Rickett/PA“Most teenage robbers dress in a similar way,” explained Detective Inspector Alan Postawa to the BBC in October of that same year, after a police crackdown on “Hoodies” in Luton. “So targeting these types of clothes may prevent offences as well as detect them. It is disturbing that many criminals do wear this type of clothing, but our first responsibility is to protect the public.” Kinney says: “Suddenly, the hoodie had all these traits: dangerous, pathological and criminal.” A year later, David Cameron gave what became known as the “hug a hoodie” speech, intended to encourage more understanding of why young people turn to crime.In the context of the #Blacklivesmatter movement, the hoodie became heavily symbolic. Jeff Raines, of the Million Hoodies Movement for Justice, says: “The hoodie has been a symbol of black and brown communities’ presumed guilt and criminality in white America. The Million Hoodies Movement for Justice was founded in the wake of Trayvon Martin’s death, who was murdered because someone thought he looked ‘suspicious’ in his hoodie. Our communities should not have to change how they dress in order to not be shot and killed.”In the UK, at least, the hoodie’s symbolism has shifted from the criminal towards something more prosaic that even members of the Royal Family (Prince Harry and the Queen, who has been photographed wearing one behind the wheel) wear. While on the catwalk, as the Vetements show proves, it remains a garment of individualism, authenticity and IDGAF attitude.