Sydney Opera House: The Opera – as new as you're going to get in 2016 When the young Danish architect Jørn Utzon won the international design competition for the Sydney Opera House in 1958, his plans were holistic, comprising not just the unlikely structure of the building but the art within it, too.Utzon wanted to hang the walls with modern art that would complement the sculptural effect of his architecture – names such as Picasso, Matisse and Charles-Édouard Jeanneret-Gris, the pioneering modern architect and artist known by his pseudonym, Le Corbusier. Picasso and Matisse haven’t yet made it to Bennelong Point, where the Opera House sits, but on Tuesday morning – 57 tumultuous years after Utzon commissioned the work, and a year after it was sold to the Opera House at auction for more than A$400,000 – a 6.5-square-metre wool tapestry by Le Corbusier was finally unveiled in its intended home.“Tapestries tell stories, and few more than Les Dés Sont Jetés (The Dice Are Cast),” the Sydney Opera House chief executive, Louise Herron, told the small crowd of donors and media gathered at the launch. Stories need a hero, and Utzon made an audacious one: back in 1958, Le Corbusier was at the height of his career and fame, and famously unwilling to collaborate. Barely starting out in the industry, Utzon had no reason to expect his support – but that didn’t stop him from asking.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier. Photograph: Hudson/Getty ImagesHe wrote to his idol, boldly sending his designs of the Opera House and asking Le Corbusier to contribute in the form of “decoration, carpets and paintings”. His idol wrote back, and by October 1960 the young Utzon was the proud owner of a striking tapestry, signed – very prominently – by Le Corbusier. Half a century later, the eye-catching tapestry still feels modern. White and black forms are dominated by a bold red; squint your eyes and it could be Sydney Harbour – there’s a sailboat in it – but the abstract shapes don’t quite map out the same topography. Bennelong Point, though, is a definitive reference: according to Prof Antony Moulis of the University of Queensland, the “P” shape at the bottom right hand corner “appears to be produced by tracing over the competition issue site plan of Bennelong Point”, and the centre of the P is an outline of the tram depot that previously sat there.Utzon and his wife, Lis, were thrilled, and immediately hung the tapestry on their dining room wall in Hellebæk, Denmark, intending to move it to Sydney once construction was complete. Lis wrote to thank Le Corbusier in 1960: “It is a daily source of delight and beauty not only for ourselves and our children but for all our friends and guests, too. It has endowed our home with a beauty so exquisite that I am at a loss for the proper words.”It’s a good thing they loved it, because they never ended up moving it: in 1966, after a series of construction delays and budget blowouts, Utzon dramatically resigned from the Sydney Opera House project, outraged at the new conservative state government which had been blocking his plans and questioning his judgment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Le Corbusier’s tapestry Les Dés Sont Jetés (The Dice Are Cast), commissioned by Jørn Utzon. Illustration: Anna Kucera/Sydney Opera HouseThe Australian architect Peter Hall took over in April 1966 amid public backlash. Completing the Opera House from another’s beleaguered designs would prove to be a thankless task, which ostracised Hall from the architectural community, and which his family believe led to his ruin. Utzon moved back to Denmark immediately, vowing never to return – and while he always denied resenting the project, it took 35 years for the Opera House to get him back into the fold, inviting him in 2000 to design updates from afar and dedicating the Utzon Room to him in 2004.Utzon died four years later, but Les Dés Sont Jetés remained with his family until his collection was sold at auction in June last year. The tapestry fetched A$413,000, with the help of Sydney Opera House donors.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Another visionary’: architect Jørn Utzon, whose Sydney Opera House designs saw the building recognised as a Unesco World Heritage site in 2007. Photograph: Keystone/Getty Images“It’s incredible to have the opportunity to put [together] the holistic view that Utzon had of his building,” Louise Herron told Guardian Australia, staring at the tapestry in front of her. “The red is incredible, isn’t it? It’s such an unusual red.” The piece is now hanging behind glass in the far end of the Utzon-designed western foyer: a holding place while the Opera House continues the “decade of renewal” that will lead up to its 50th anniversary in 2023. The first time Herron stepped into the foyer to see it hanging, she “felt like a bride walking towards it: my beloved”. In fact, she is not sure the piece will ever be moved.“It’s so hard to overestimate the significance of hanging this tapestry for all the public to enjoy now,” she said. “What we are here today to do is inject a truly unique piece of the Opera House’s unique DNA into the building … It reminds us of the standard, the level of excellence, that we have to achieve in everything we do.”Asked what it might have been about Utzon that led Le Corbusier to reply to his letter – leading to an extraordinary collaboration between two of the leading architects of the 20th century – Herron has only suggestions.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lead donor Peter Weiss and Sydney Opera House chief executive, Louise Herron, admire the tapestry. Photograph: Daniel Boud“All he could have seen was the design, so he must have seen that sort of boldness in it. If you look at the way Le Corbusier designed, in such an incredibly bold and inspiring way – he must have seen that boldness and inspiration in Utzon, the next generation. “Perhaps he recognised in Utzon another visionary.”