A significant component of Lancashire’s heritage will soon disappear from view. Five of the eleven public museums are set for closure, with spending on museums to be cut from £1.3m a year to under £100,000.This was the plan approved by Lancashire county council in November 2015. In addition, some 34 out of 74 libraries across the county face closure. It is a story repeated across the country as central government cuts to local authorities bite deeper. Lancashire faces a shortfall of £262m over the next five years and considers closing half of its museums as a necessary part of its financial planning.Such an abdication of responsibility for the history and heritage of the county by its leaders is an all too familiar story. Local authorities have little room for manoeuvre when statutory services have to be maintained. Heritage appears as a luxury, but the proposals for Lancashire’s museums are not about pruning at the edges. They amount to wholesale removal of facilities that, once gone, are highly unlikely to return.The five museums facing closure are diverse and distinctive: locally rooted, but telling a story of global significance. Appropriately, for the birthplace of the industrial revolution, there are important mill museums, in Queen Street Mill in Burnley and Helmshore Textile Museum in Rossendale.Volunteering kept me going but now austerity has killed my museum The former was the creation of ordinary people, who together established a workplace and community, run by and for the workforce. Queen Street Mill is the one remaining example of an industrial site with original steam-powered machinery. It is the last place where people can see and hear the visceral forces that powered industrialisation.By contrast, the elegant Judge’s Lodging, in the oldest town house in Lancaster, boasts Regency period room settings and a fine display of locally manufactured Gillow furniture. Meanwhile, along the coast in Fleetwood, the local museum set in the old Custom House presents the idealistic history of a planned seaside resort, alongside the perilous record of deep-sea fishing and the heroism of lifeboat crews.Even the flagship Museum of Lancashire in Preston is facing the council’s axe, despite only recently being overhauled with the support of almost £1m from the Heritage Lottery Fund. The community history gallery there invites local groups to fashion and display their own histories.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The industrial skyline of Preston, Lancashire. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesThe museums of Lancashire tell a story of local and global significance, of the first industrial society and the skill, ingenuity and fortitude of the people who created it. They established new ways of living, working and playing, founded organisations and institutions, fought hardship and challenged prejudice. Of course, it is not just stories of the past that will be lost if these museums close. Many post-industrial towns across Lancashire have actively sought to refashion themselves as desirable destinations, with thriving leisure and cultural scenes that can attract investment. Closing museums seriously damages that approach. Short-term savings risk undermining long-term aspirations. Material skills are essential for economic wellbeing, but so too are creativity, imagination, innovation, enterprise and the desire to reform society. And inspiration is what museums are all about.How better to fire the next generations than to put before them the example of what people like them, perhaps even from their own families in former generations, can achieve? Since November, vigorous campaigning across Lancashire has challenged the threatened closures. In late March a reprieve was announced until September. This is to allow interested parties more time to put forward viable plans to take over the five sites. This is obviously very welcome, but the underlying problem remains: that we have reached a position where public leaders can regard closing off the past as a legitimate way forward to the future.Keith Vernon is a principal lecturer in history at the University of Central Lancashire.Talk to us on Twitter via @Guardianpublic and sign up for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday.