Below is this week’s playlist – the theme and tunes picked by a reader from the comments on last week’s callout. Thanks for your suggestions.  about the format of the weekly Readers recommend series at the end of the piece.Sign up to Sleeve notes The game is defined as Readers recommend, so I’m never going to list a track just because it’s from one of my all-time favourite bands – thankfully, though, four tracks by Breathless were excellently nominated in one post. In my world that would be the initial quartet, but I’d never get away with that. Of the four, I went for Help Me Get Over It, its steady buildup providing a perfect opening track. Next up, Eurythmics, who say I’m Never Gonna Cry Again – I didn’t want to hang around and I didn’t wanna take your time, so I added this early track from back when they were a bit cool’n’edgy (according to bishbosh in the comments).   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The YouTube playlist.Tony Allen’s N.E.P.A. gives advice to those in Lagos with the lyric “Never expect power always” (a play on the acronym for the Nigerian Electric Power Authority, so explains nilpferd). Harnessing the kinetic energy of Tony Allen’s octopus-like drumming could produce more reliable power. I’m never gonna let you down, so next I picked House of Love’s Never. The affection for this track was real: thanks to speed typing, with decent justification and links, we received two nominations within seconds of each other as the theme was announced. Following that, You’ll Never Know how much I care, so I’ll let Big Maybelle explain just how.   severin 11 August 2016 8:49pm"But I know my luck too wellyes, I know my luck too welland I'll probably never see you againI'll probably never see you againI'll probably never see you again"The Smiths - Hand In GloveNever buy an indie album after seeing Sandie Shaw perform on Top of the Pops is guidance my dad should have heeded. He made the error after watching Shaw’s comeback with a cover of the Smiths’ Hand in Glove, performed with Johnny Marr, Andy Rourke and Mike Joyce – for this playlist we have the original version, which features on the band’s debut album, passed down to me after his mistaken purchase quicker than you could say “bare foot at Eurovision”.It never happens to me, but it did happen to Vince Clarke after Yazoo split. He gave Feargal Sharkey and his unique vocal style a first Top 5 hit as the Assembly with Never Never, so it was the way his life was meant to be. Everybody’s wondering what we should do next, but We Never Know says Nicolette. Look on the bright side, there’s never a right side or a wrong side. “Never turn around,” sing Unwound in Look a Ghost (“that came from a thousand years before”). And as we have learned from a million B-movies – you never look behind the door. I’ve Never Loved You More, declare Trembling Blue Stars. “I’m so far from being over you I still just want to be yours,” they maintain. Bottom lips have a little wobble – and is that hayfever making our eyes water? Pulp’s Common People “pretend they never went to school”. But even with a thirst for knowledge, they will “never understand how it feels to live life with no meaning or control and with nowhere left to go”. In Innocence Mission’s Song About Travelling, “it is the people in the cities you’ll never know” line that justifies selection.    bllckchps 11 August 2016 9:26pmFleetwood Mac The ChainAnd if, you don't love me now You will never love me again I can still hear you saying You would never break the chainCuriously unzedded...Never cease listening to a song halfway through – the equivalent of leaving a sporting event before the final outcome is known. This is illustrated perfectly here by Fleetwood Mac’s The Chain, a track of many monumental moments and some sporting history itself – from back when the BBC had Formula One. So, to play on the lyrics there, never mind the danger: if you don’t love this now, you will never love it again. I can still hear you saying, you would never break the Shane.New themeThe theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on Thursday 18 August. You have until 11pm on Monday 22 August to make nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.