The psychogeographic links between writing and walking are a cult fascination, as though the rhythms of perambulation and those of the pen are somehow inextricably intertwined. But for all those famously inveterate walking authors, “street sauntering and square haunting” like Virginia Woolf, there are just as many for whom the rhythm of the wheel is both a personal passion and an influence on their writing. Transformed by tubular frames, the low wheel and pneumatic tyres, the modern bicycle brought unprecedented freedom at the end of the 19th century; John Galsworthy, author of The Forsyte Saga, claimed in 1930 that the bicycle was responsible “for more movement in manners and morals than anything since Charles II”. Forget walking – authors were all cyclists now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Arduous study’ ... Thomas Hardy, early 1920s. Photograph: Chronicle / Alamy Stock Photo/Alamy Stock PhotoThe most iconic early converts to cycling were Thomas Hardy and his wife Emma. Emma first learned to ride aged 55 (beaten only by Tolstoy, who learned in his late 60s), and it was she who persuaded the great novelist to try in January 1896, when he found out just how addictive it could be: “I have almost forgotten that there is such a pursuit as literature in the arduous study of – bicycling!” The couple would often ride through Puddletown and all over Dorset, Thomas in his knickerbockers, Emma sporting a velvet green cycling outfit that matched her bike (also green and dubbed affectionately “the Grasshopper”). Contemporaries Arthur Conan Doyle and his wife rode a tandem; even Henry James, although stout and rather old, could be spied pedalling around Rye in peaked cap and knickerbockers, covering as many as 20 miles between luncheon and teatime.When Sidney and Beatrice Webb first set about converting HG Wells to the Fabian cause, they biked from London to his home in Sandgate in Kent. Wells himself was one of the most accomplished early riders, regularly testing himself out around the Surrey hills at Hindhead and Devil’s Punch Bowl (as did fellow dystopianist Aldous Huxley). Wells recalled in his autobiography: “I wheeled about the district marking down suitable places and people for destruction by my Martians”; the Sandpit at Horsell Common became the landing site of the first cylinder from Mars in The War of the Worlds.The bike itself became something of a socialist emblem; William Morris would distribute pamphlets from his, and the Clarion cycling clubs aimed to disseminate socialist ideas across the country at races and meets.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Late starter ... Leo Tolstoy with a bicycle, Russia, 1890s. Photograph: Heritage Images/GettyThough this golden era of cycling has been memorialised in books such as Somerset Maugham’s Cakes and Ale, Jerome K Jerome’s Three Men on the Bummell and Wells’s The Wheels of Chance, there were accidents aplenty. In his essay Taming the Bicycle, Mark Twain recalls broken limbs and running into dogs, concluding with the advice: “Get a bicycle. You will not regret it, if you live.” Hardy fell off his Rover Cob between Bath and Bristol and was “rubbed down”, he half-joked, “by a kindly coal-heaver with one of his sacks”. But the unluckiest had to be George Bernard Shaw, who recorded a long list of accidents over his cycling career. While hurtling down a hill, a stone wedged in his mudguard, locking the wheel and resulting in a “Homeric spill”. Descending another hill in Hertfordshire at speed, Shaw swerved to avoid a woman walking in the road and landed on his face. But the traffic of London represented his greatest threat; approaching Haymarket from the direction of the National Gallery, he collided with a horse-driven van and went down “in a forest of horse’s legs, van wheels and whirling bicycle machinery”.The award for rookie mistake, however, goes to Simone de Beauvoir. Forbidden to ride as a child (her mother equated it with other “sensual” pleasures), De Beauvoir learned in occupied Paris using the bike of her lover, Nathalie Sorokine: “I really handled it with ease, except one time I crashed into a dog and another time I collided with two women, and I was very happy.” Her mother might not have been wrong: De Beauvoir’s letters to Jean-Paul Sartre are full of the joys of bicycling, which she said made her like a “lusty wench”. In a typical accident, De Beauvoir records careering down a hill into the path of oncoming ascending cyclists, swerves to the wrong side and runs out of road. The result is an almighty pile-up, a black eye, skinned face and lost tooth. Yet none of that seems to have affected how empowering she found the experience of riding, rendered most clearly in The Second Sex:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Creative partnership .. Arthur Conan Doyle sharing a tandem with his wife Louisa. Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty Images At 18, TE Lawrence went on a grand tour through France by bicycle; a young girl would never be permitted to take on such an adventure … Yet such experiences have an inestimable impact: this is how an individual in the headiness of freedom and discovery learns to look at the entire world as his fief.Something about the rhythms of the bike – its cyclical motions, perhaps – permeates French existentialist thought, and it’s curious to wonder how much of that is attributable to its proponents’ love of cycling. Camus was another devotee, as was the editor Pierre Gallimard. Sartre was the sort of dedicated cyclist who preferred riding to the monotony of walking, and, as De Beauvoir remembered, “would amuse himself by sprinting on the hills”. Using bikes to examine the nature of possessing an object in Being and Nothingness, Sartre echoes many a cyclist when he remarks that “handing over a banknote is enough to make a bicycle belong to me, but my entire life is needed to realise this possession”.This French dedication is unsurprising, given that the country hosts the most famous cycle race in the world. It was in France that Hemingway began seriously betting on track racing, picking up enough jargon to describe the scenes in The Sun Also Rises. It was also in 1920s France, on a trip through the Loire Valley that Samuel Beckett first fell in love with the pursuit. Beckett was always sports-mad – boxing, rugby, motorbikes, cricket – but cycling occupies a special space in his writings. His most famous play, Waiting for Godot, is often said to have been inspired by a famously slow French pro-cyclist called Roger Godeau, whom Beckett may have waited around to watch at Paris-Roubaix. That is likely rather fanciful, but more concretely, Beckett does seem to have found in cycling a metaphor for life: in a letter of 1932 he remarked to George Reavey: “I’ll be here till I die, creeping along genteel roads on a stranger’s bike.”Ultimately, it may have been the solitude and self-reliance that appealed to authors. Henry Miller spoke of his beloved brakeless single-speeder: “After a time, habituated to so many hours a day on my bike, I became less and less interested in my friends. My wheel had now become my one and only friend. I could rely on it, which is more than I could say about my buddies.” HG Wells felt something of the same: “When I see an adult on a bicycle, I do not despair for the future of the human race … Cycle tracks will abound in Utopia.” They abound through our literary history, too.