Before I moved to Paris, I lived in Amsterdam for almost 20 years. It’s small, quiet and clean – almost everything that opposes good photography, in my opinion. I always ended up shooting in the red-light district, hoping for something crazy and unexpected to happen. I started to feel like a goldfish, circling round and round, bored.I was intrigued by the prostitution in Paris – especially having come from Amsterdam, where it is organised and sex workers are protected. Around the corner from my new place, on a boulevard in the 18th arrondissement, there are groups of eastern European women selling their services. On my way to photograph there one night, I passed by this guy slumped in a chair in the street. I recognised him – I had seen him peeing against a tree.Street view: London as seen by homeless photographers – in pictures At first, I kept walking, feeling sorry for him. I’m never sure if I am actually helping homeless people or just taking advantage of someone’s misery when I take such a picture. But I walked back. His posture, the objects around him, the light – it all seemed like a film set. Though an old man, there was something childlike and innocent about the way he was sleeping, so completely vulnerable.I always use available light. Here, I was lucky to have a streetlight reflecting beautifully on to the metal blinds. I took the first picture from relatively far away, getting closer with every shot, until I was near his head. Then I took two steps back, realising I had to have the whole chair in.Paris has this lovey-dovey side that tourists are drawn to: the impressive architecture, the croissants, red wine and cheese. But at night, it’s tougher and gloomier, a pretty sinister place. I found the poverty shocking: I saw a family with three children sleeping rough on a double mattress, a teenager breastfeeding her baby on some shabby corner and an old man sleeping in a phone booth. And Parisians would just walk past, not blinking an eye, as if it was the most normal thing in the world to see a guy with no legs pushing himself about on a little board with wheels, begging. I wanted to give all of them money, but hardly had any myself. The problem seemed so omnipresent that I kind of lost hope.I love raw, grainy, blurry images – when photography isn’t used to explain a situation, but to capture the human experience instead. I observe from a distance, without intervening, without breaking the moment or momentum. I don’t walk up to people and ask if I can take their picture – that would ruin everything, although sometimes you do meet someone and it’s beautiful. Occasionally, I force myself in front of people. I know it’s ugly and awkward, but I steal a picture if I really need to have it – and if I know I can physically defend myself. That’s the reason I swim four times a week. I’ve got a healthy sense of ethics, but sometimes you have to be able to let go.Bart Koetsier’s CV      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bart Koetsier. Photograph: Koos BreukelBorn: Doorwerth, the Netherlands, 1975Education: Forestry (unfinished), biology (unfinished), physiotherapy (unfinished), Photo Academy Amsterdam (graduated)Influences: “Anders Petersen, Michael Ackerman, Trent Parke, Jacob Aue Sobol – photographers who have a subjective vision.”High point: “When a picture resembles a Francis Bacon painting.”Low point: “Walking night after night with no results.”Top tip: “Read Down and Out in Paris and London by George Orwell.”