BBC3Class   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Ever since the sad demise of Torchwood, Doctor Who fans have been looking for something to fill those fallow months when the Tardis is away in another part of the galaxy and Who is missing from our screens. Now they might finally have it. Created by noted YA author Patrick Ness, Class is set in Coal Hill Academy, a recurring location in Doctor Who, which is beset with murderous alien beings. It’s up to four sixth-formers to prevent these creatures from targeting humanity itself, all the while negotiating the usual challenges adolescence brings. Fortunately for the quartet, a certain Time Lord is on hand to help with the former, though he might struggle with the latter.Available nowHayuRob And Chyna   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This berserk reality show which charts the eventful romance between hip-hop starlet Blac Chyna and member of the Kardashian family, Rob Kardashian, is the tip of the Hayu iceberg. This online platform is essentially a one-stop shop for all your reality, constructed reality, scripted reality and augmented reality needs. Expect many more encounters with members of the Kardashian clan, plus the adventures of allegedly Real Housewives from almost every conceivable metropolitan location in the developed world.Available nowBBC StoreClassic Children’s Programmes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andy Pandy with Teddy.The BBC is unleashing a veritable battalion of retro kids’ TV charmers this week. Whether you’re curious to see if their gentle ways will work on your own offspring or just in the mood for a nostalgia trip, you could do worse than revisit the animated stoner classic Crystal Tipps And Alistair, cult time-travel epic The Adventure Game and, particularly, the astonishingly lo-fi Andy Pandy, which now looks like a transmission from another world.Available from MondayPodcastsKeepin’ It 1600      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Former White House speech writer Jon Lovett. Photograph: Getty“There is nothing worse than an untalented narcissist. That is a useless person.” One guess as to who US political podcaster Jon Lovett might be discussing there. This series of conversations is the ultimate insider job, boasting as it does contributions from former aides to President Obama. It’s also undeniably partial – but at the moment, who isn’t? Happily, in addition, it’s informed, approachable and alternately outraged and uproarious; the sound of people who know whereof they speak talking shop. Michael Gove might have had enough of experts but we haven’t.Available nowDJ HistoryOne of the most irresistible details in the tributes paid to Rod Temperton earlier this month was that the man who contributed so much to Jacko’s Thriller, Off The Wall and other disco-soul classics not only came from Cleethorpes but worked in a Ross frozen fish factory. It certainly wasn’t lost on Grimsby boy Bill Brewster, who trod the same slippery path to dancefloor greatness and celebrates Temperton’s influence here with an hour-long mix on his great DJ History podcast, now fast approaching episode 400.Available now