MondayJack Thorne and Graeae’s The Solid Life of Sugar Water hits the NT Temporary Space, London. Robert Icke’s new version of Uncle Vanya is very long and very rewarding at London’s Almeida as it reinvents Chekhov for today. Iphigenia in Splott returns home to the Sherman in Cardiff. It’s your last chance this week for the lyrical and explosive Pink Mist at Bristol Old Vic.TuesdaySimon McBurney’s unsettling The Encounter continues at the Barbican, London, where, also, Forced Entertainment are presenting their tabletop Shakespeares. The RSC dreams a new postwar world in A Midsummer Night’s Dream at the Royal Shakespeare theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon. Broken Leg’s Three Generations of Women, which considers how women’s lives have changed from the 1930s to the present day, is at Greenwich theatre, London. Harry Giles looks at consumerism and anxiety in Everything I Bought and How It Made Me Feel at Northern Stage in Newcastle. Protein Dance’s May Contain Food has a score by Orlando Gough, sounds lots of fun and goes out on tour from the Lowry in Salford. Reckless Sleepers are in action at Contact in Manchester with Negative Space, a piece about building, destroying and building again. Conor McPherson’s early monologue St Nicholas is revived at Cardiff’s Other Room. James Dacre’s fine production of The Herbal Bed goes into Cambridge Arts theatre.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Charlotte Wakefield and Michael Mears in The Herbal Bed, at the Cambridge Arts theatre. Photograph: Mark DouetWednesdayTania El Khoury’s beautifully judged Gardens Speak allows you to unearth the stories of some of those who have died in Syria. It’s at Battersea Arts Centre, London, as is Chris Goode’s revival of Jo Clifford’s Every One, a modern version of Everyman, about a family dealing with sudden death. Sh!t Theatre is out on tour with its very enjoyable cabaret-style take on feminism: Women’s Hour is at the Junction in Cambridge. There is loads of good stuff in the Sprint festival, a platform for new and unusual theatre, which is at Camden People’s theatre, London. At Arc in Stockton, Stowaway is the latest from the terrific Analogue and explores the life of a man found dead in a B&Q car park. It’s the final week of the Vault festival under London’s Waterloo Station: check out Displace Yourself’s Eden, a sci-fi story about homelessness, and Cian Binchy’s The Misfit Analysis, which gives audiences a glimpse into the autistic mind. Yellow Earth’s Typhoon festival, eight plays by East Asian writers, is at Soho theatre and Rich Mix, both London, all this week.ThursdayJeramee, Hartleby and Oooglemore is stupidly lovely for the over-threes at the Unicorn theatre in London. Matthew Zajac’s The Tailor of Inverness, based on the experiences of his father, is at Birmingham Rep.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Jeramee, Hartleby and Ooglemore at the Unicorn, LondonFridayPixie Lott is Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany’s, which is in preview at the Curve in Leicester. Amanda Whittington turns her beady eye to the world of ballroom dancing in Kiss Me Quickstep at the New Vic in Newcastle-under-Lyme. Theatre Ad Infinitum are making a new show called Bucket List, an all-female piece about social mobility, neo-colonialism and US-Mexican relations, and it gets a sneak preview at Redbridge Drama Centre. At Derby theatre, Hannah Silva is in the studio with Schlock! where she is tearing up Fifty Shades of Grey, and in the main house Sarah Brigham directs a 60th anniversary revival of Look Back in Anger. Vincent Gambini’s sly This Is Not a Magic Show is at Z Arts, Manchester. In London, Spare Tyre’s installation The Garden, particularly designed for those with dementia and their carers but suitable for anyone, is at New Diorama. From Saturday, Sean Foley directs Rob Brydon and Kenneth Branagh in the murderous dark comedy The Painkiller at London’s Garrick, and Cathy Tyson leads an all-female cast in Red Snapper, set during the filming of Dr No in Jamaica in 1962, at the Belgrade in Coventry.