When the crocodile wearing a bondage collar starts whipping the giant rat riding a motorbike made of wieners, you may find yourself thinking: “Wow, this really can’t get much odder.” But you will, of course, be wrong – even though the crocodile is already in bed with a latex-enrobed octopus and a fox in a fox-fur stole.Nathalie Djurberg – the maker of Delights of an Undirected Mind, as this animation is called – is on a mission to probe the more uncomfortable corners of the human psyche, those sticky recesses where the loose term “sex” is used as convenient shorthand for a tangle of sly and shaming urges and revulsions.The fact that the Swedish artist undertakes these explorations in claymation – a medium one might assume to have reached its erotic climax with Gromit operating a sexy bunny marionette in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit – adds a healthy dose of the ridiculous. Rendered in Plasticine, scenarios that might otherwise cause mental scarring and a lifelong aversion to condensed milk become oddly lovable.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oddly lovable … Delights of an Undirected Mind. Photograph: Lisson GalleryDelights is one of three recent works – all created by Djurberg with her partner, the composer and occasional techno DJ Hans Berg – for a show that opens this week at London’s Lisson Gallery. “Humour can break through in a way that being serious can’t,” says Djurberg over tea and coconut milk during a pause in the show’s installation. “I think humour is one of the smartest ways to communicate. As soon as you laugh, you let your guard down. It’s also very difficult to make something monumental with stop-motion. Hans can do that with the music – but if I try to do something monumental, it just cracks me up.”Djurberg and Berg divide their time between a rural community in their native Sweden (“a village with about 20 houses, a gas station and a forest, but almost no people left”) and an apartment in Berlin. In both places, Djurberg works in a home studio, making the clay sculptures, sets, costumes and props. She craves this stage – the physical making – often producing more than she needs just to extend the process, before the months of animation commence.It is not just the endless slog of the animating she doesn’t look forward to: Djurberg’s films can be emotionally raw and at times troubling. “Sometimes it’s just lovely and I’m really happy,” she says. “But when it’s an animation that’s taking a tougher tone psychologically, it can be exhausting.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It can be exhausting’ … Hans Berg and Nathalie Djurberg.The most recent work, Dark Side of the Moon, was so gruelling that, for the first time, Djurberg considered abandoning it. “Moon is about hidden trauma and things you have to push through. I wanted to quit making it, but I’m too proud to stop. I started animating, then stopped for a month. It was like walking through mud. But because I have my studio at home, there was never any escaping this bloody animation. The mood in the apartment was terrible.”Set in a forest clearing, Dark Side of the Moon focuses on five warped fairytale archetypes: a not-so-little girl, a suave smoking wolf, a neurotic pig, a moon with mooning buttocks, and a locked cottage. Something terribly unpleasant seems to have happened, but quite what is unclear. When the girl struggles and fails to open the cottage door, the moon suggests that she comforts herself instead with sweets, to sate her emptiness.Delights of an Undirected Mind, meanwhile, explores the curious undirected desires experienced in early childhood, and the dawning of a sense of shame. “I remember sexual dreams and fantasies from when I was very little,” says Djurberg, “and they did not have a target. They were absurd.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shudder-inducing … Worship (2016). Photograph: Courtesy Lisson GalleryThe third work, Worship, is a sweaty, butt-loving excursion into sexually charged music videos. Its Plasticine cast grind themselves ecstatically against props – from sequin-encrusted fish to a giant bejewelled corncob – in a state of veneration and near orgasm. It’s a worship of the physical body and, rather than a pastiche of hip-hop, Berg’s music samples devotional chants and induces shudders with its heavy bass and mounting tension. (An LP will be put out by Vinyl Factory to coincide with the show.)While the atmosphere is undeniably charged, there’s actually nothing more explicit to see in Worship than split latex, spilt milk and the occasional supporting string: a reminder that all these erotic raptures are nothing more than stop-motion models. As Djurberg says of her medium: “With clay, no one really gets hurt.”• Nathalie Djurberg & Hans Berg are at Lisson Gallery, London, from 31 March until 6 May.