Today, on the first day of Black History Month in the US, Beyoncé announced on Instagram that she’s pregnant – and with twins, no less. It was a bright spot on the otherwise grim landscape of the past week and a half in news. The photo is forward-thinking but with traces of historical art traditions from the past – conjuring an appealing remix of rococo excesses, Flemish portraiture and Latin American funerary symbols.In the frame Beyoncé is seen kneeling at an altar, cradling her belly with one hand while she keeps the other hand (which, interestingly, doesn’t show a wedding ring) posed slightly above. She is shrouded by a nearly sheer, tinted-tulle veil and is wearing satin blue underwear with a subtle, petaly ruffle. Since the medieval period, the Virgin Mary has often been depicted wearing shades of blue, a color used to signify virtue and authority. The bright, cerulean blue background reinforces this association and might even take it a step further.Behind her glowing, studio-lit body, an enormous floral wreath suggests a sort of halo. The bulbous, super-saturated flowers behind her are hyperbolically lush and incredibly fake, adding a campy edge to the otherwise straightforwardly religious – and, it should be noted, hyper-feminine – composition.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Beyonce/Instagram/PABeyoncé, the expecting mother, is calm, composed and purposeful; the image’s tone is celebratory, and yet, as her facial expression indicates, somewhat restrained. The caption accompanying the photo expresses similar restraint: “We would like to share our love and happiness. We have been blessed two times over. We are incredibly grateful that our family will be growing by two, and we thank you for your well wishes. – The Carters”Rococo influences can be seen in both the abundant floral arrangement and the photo’s overall celebration of love and pleasure. The rococo period began in the late 17th century as a rebellion from the popular baroque style. The aristocratic class commissioned paintings of pastoral scenes with languid lakes, idyllic meadows and joyful children frolicking about. Floral motifs and sinuous shapes abounded, and artists did not shy away from what would’ve been considered scandalous scenes of seduction. Leisure time, in other words, was highly valued, as it demonstrated a family’s wealth.The photo also takes cues from late 15th-century Flemish portraiture, when it was popular to depict a subject from a three-quarter angle, often in front of a landscape, and with hands clasped in front. While her hands are certainly not clasped, Beyoncé’s reassured posture and slight turn of the head to the viewer is remarkably similar to that period’s portrait style. And however synthetic its components may be, the surrounding landscape echoes those found in northern European artworks created during the Renaissance period.In Latin American tradition, particularly in majority Catholic countries, flowers are piled on to graves and used to decorate shrines for loved ones. This image invokes a funerary, which is slightly confusing considering it announces the coming birth of her children. But perhaps Bey is just more in touch with the life cycles – life, death, rebirth – than us mere mortals. Or maybe it’s a symbol for her earlier miscarriage, which she called “the saddest thing I’ve ever been through”. While hints of art historical pasts emerge in the details of this shot, we are still left slightly in the dark: why isn’t she wearing a ring? Where’s Jay Z? Does it matter?