Platforms, lipstick and bulging crotches. Songs about hot love, queen bitches and young dudes. High camp and low necklines. In the 1970s, glam rock championed individuality and blurred genders, aided by its distinctive “glitter beat”. But for every Ziggy Stardust and Marc Bolan, there was an Iron Virgin with their metal chastity belts. Bands like these were more novelty than groundbreaking, and part of the reason that glam is all too often given short shrift.Alexis Petridis on glam rock - the Guardian Radio Hour podcast But now a new crop of acts are reclaiming glam as a flamboyant force. This is a generation largely too young to remember Gary Glitter’s downfall across every front page and whose fluid approach to genre and style means that any sound or look can have its day again, usually meshed together.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Meilyr Jones. Photograph: PRBørns: the best of this week’s new music Impish Michigan singer Børns could be Marc Bolan’s heir, in image at least, and his 2015 debut album, Dopamine, pairs buzzing riffs and breathy vocals straight out of 1972 with emphatic, MGMT-ish pop production. More faithful to yesteryear’s mullets and rock’n’roll, in Derby there’s the Struts, who got into glam via the Darkness but manage to stay on the right side of pastiche.For others, glam is more of a state of mind. “I love its freedom,” says Welsh oddball Meilyr Jones, whose Strange/Emotional single harnesses glam’s metallic pomp. In particular he admires its combination of “low brow and high brow, mixing elegant and cheap together. Thats something I do, musically and aesthetically.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This principle certainly applies to Long Island teen brothers The Lemon Twigs. They merge their Bowie and Transformer-era Lou Reed influences with Big Star-style pop-rock but their interest in glam most obviously manifests itself in their image: youngest brother Michael D’Addario, 17, favours womens clothes and glam’s bright makeup. Like Bowie, they say, they do it to command attention and also to be subversive. “Accessibility, to a certain degree, is the whole point of pop,” says other brother, Brian, 19. “Fashion is the outer layer. but we’re also trying to do something behind it.”You couldn’t call it a movement quite yet but Jones reckons that others could learn a thing or two from glam’s attitude. “It wasn’t too perfect; it was anti-industry, looser and more fun.” Fun now, he adds, has been “separate from the mainstream for a while. If he’d been as cynical as modern bands, Bolan would’ve thought he looked a dick”. Time to get the proverbial feather boa out, then.The Lemon Twigs play Sebright Arms, London E2, on Tuesday 9 Aug 