I’m lobbying for a new person-of-the-year award. While Time magazine’s fêted title honours one who has done the most to influence a year, I want to honour the person who comprehensively captures – in a useful way – an issue that has dominated it.And I know who should get the first one.Dave is a sexist, beer-swilling jerk. Why do women find him attractive? Australian comedian Zoë Coombs Marr doesn’t (yet) have the platform from which to influence millions, but she has captured in her comedy the entire complex conundrum of millions of modern feminists. And she has more than inspired this modern feminist, and (I’m guessing) all the others who gave her a standing ovation after last weekend’s performance of her latest show, Trigger Warning.There’s a line fairly early on in the Barry award-winning show where she says, in the character of her alter ego Dave, “You can’t make intersectional feminism funny”. In a show full of dramatic irony, this is perhaps the biggest giveaway of all. Because she does – she does make it funny. Not just in a subtle, smile-to-myself, oh-isn’t-she-clever kind of way, but in a knee-slapping, snot-escaping, snort-laughing, bend-over-cover-your-mouth hilarious kind of way.Coombs Marr premiered the character of Dave in her 2014 show of the same name. Writing for the Guardian the following year, she described Dave as “a sexist beer-swilling caricature of the dregs of masculinity, a douchebag with a neckbeard, swaggering about in the kind of graphic T-shirt Ed Hardy would mow the lawn in”.But it’s testament to her intelligence and restraint that Dave isn’t a figure of ridicule or hate: he is actually vulnerable and lovable – so much so that, according to Coombs Marr, female audience members often leave wanting to have sex with him. Guardian writer Harriet Gibsone has observed of Dave that “amid the parody ... is the character’s vulnerability”, and writing in Fairfax, Anne-Marie Peard noted that beyond the parody, his “painfully intelligent reflections on female and queer exclusion” were the real “Dave gold”.Without giving too much of the show away (it’s still playing in Sydney and goes to Edinburgh in August), Trigger Warning begins with a series of trigger warnings. Dave has been forced to end his standup career because of the harassment of feminists on Twitter. So he instead goes to study clowning with Philippe Gaulier, where he finds his inner clown: a “cranky lesbian in her 30s” named Zoe. I haven’t seen anything so meta since Adaptation and, incidentally, there’s a Kaufman joke in there too.As others have noted , Coombs Marr’s shows as Dave are not merely comments on misogyny – that would be too easy, and nothing Coombs Marr does is easy. (I still don’t understand how she switched between the two characters so seamlessly, for a start.)I watched my lesbian girlfriend marry a gay man Trigger Warning also reflects the society we live in, and its many layers capture the complexity of misogyny, structural sexism and the current wave of popular feminism. She handles Dave with genuine sensitivity even as he stands in front of the crowd making dick jokes and performing tone-deaf riffs on the clitoris. There are jokes within jokes within jokes, but it’s not all cerebral: there are moments of pure slapstick stupidity at which I laughed so hard, sound just stopped coming out of my mouth. Coombs Marr is not just a female comedian (go with it, she would say) up there making funny jokes on stage; she’s a female comedian making funny jokes on stage about being a female comedian, while not being a female comedian, and making more funny jokes about the place of women in society, structural discrimination, being queer, and white men who feel marginalised by feminists. With fake blood pouring down her face and a banana in her pants. As a writer who regularly interacts with men’s rights activists and has been on the bitter end of a fair amount of mansplaining, I’ve agonised over whether it’s right to laugh off the ad hominem sexist comments or take them to task. Zoë Coombs Marr has introduced a better option with Trigger Warning. She’s made a show which neither laughs at them nor dismisses them, but shows it’s possible to be a feminist and also the funniest person in the room. I wish I could bottle it up and watch it every time I saw #notallmen written anywhere.This is a show for our times. It’s a show for every woman who has ever been told to lighten up, take a joke, stop taking herself so seriously, stop drawing attention to herself, stop being a drama queen; it’s for every woman who has been dismissed as hysterical, emotional, silly or petulant. It’s for every man who has felt the need to apologise for the sexist tropes trotted out by other men. It’s for every man who thinks women just aren’t funny.It’s for every teenage girl and boy, too. It’s for anyone who doesn’t understand what feminism is, or why men get upset when women speak in public. It’s for anyone who wants to experience the pure joy of hysterical laughter.Zoë Coombs Marr is my person of the year. She may not have single-handedly changed the world, but she has captured the changing world in a single, hilarious, one-hour comedy show. • Trigger Warning runs once more in Sydney on Friday 22 July at Giant Dwarf, before Zoë Coombs Marr takes it to Edinburgh fringe festival in August and London’s Soho Theatre in September