There will be vibrant colours and shapes and emotions, but curators openly admit that few of the works in a major portrait show at the National Portrait Gallery next year will actually look like portraits.The gallery announced on Thursday that it would stage the first show devoted to the portraiture of one of Britain’s greatest living painters, Howard Hodgkin, next year.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Absent Friends, by Howard Hodgkin Photograph: PAIt will be a significant moment for both the gallery and Hodgkin, said the show’s curator Paul Moorhouse. “It is the very first time there has been exhibition of portraits here that includes paintings which are completely abstract.”Hodgkin’s portraits are nothing to do with what his subject looks like, but all about feelings. “Howard is trying to build into a portrait not how things appear, but how we respond to them in terms of memory and emotion,” said Moorhouse. “It’s bold, it’s radical, it’s a different way of thinking about representing people.”It will be a show that challenges much of the work in the gallery’s permanent collection. “Every portrait in the gallery is predicated on the assumption that by looking at people you can tell certain things about them. I think it’s true to an extent, you can make informed guesses. But actually, can you?”Hodgkin, now a wheelchair user but still working at the age of 84, is well known for his abstract works and some people might be surprised by the portrait painter tag.Moorhouse said Hodgkin was delighted by the show and was busily working on new portraits which would appear next year. “He said ‘at last, at last!’ Portrait painting is central to his work. It was at the beginning of his career and runs right through it, but because they look the way they do they have been overlooked.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Going for a walk with Andrew, by Howard Hodgkin. Photograph: PAThe show will display 55 portraits from 1949 to the present, including ones of his artist friends Peter Blake, Gillian Wise, Patrick Caulfield, David Hockney, Philip King and R B Kitaj. There will also be more intimate portraits with lovers from the 1970s. It will explore how dramatically Hodgkin’s visual language changed, from figuration to what the artist calls “representational pictures of emotional situations.”.The Hodgkin show was announced on Thursday along with an exhibition pairing the works of the contemporary artist Gillian Wearing with the early 20th century surrealist photographer Claude Cahun – two artists whose work shares similar themes around gender, identity, masquerade and performance.• Howard Hodgkin: Absent Friends, 23 March - 18 June; Gillian Wearing and Claude Cahun: Behind the mast, another mask, 9 March - 29 May