Peter York’s Hipster Handbook 9pm, BBC4A welcome return for the cultural commentator – albeit a couple of years behind the curve – exploring that most ironically conventional of subcultures, the hipster, the attendant obsession with “authenticity”, and its repackaging by the mainstream. En route, he meets the Mast Brothers (beards and chocolates), the owners of Shoreditch’s Cereal Killer Cafe (beards and Cheerios) and eminently sensible advertising guru Sir John Hegarty (beardless). Ali CatterallThe Gun Shop: Cutting Edge9pm, Channel 4This show is in the Cutting Edge strand but so light is its tone, it might easily be a new reality show. Which tells its own story, of course, about how differently guns are seen here and in the US, where there are some 65,000 gun dealers. In Battle Creek, Michigan, the likable, right-leaning Joel runs Freedom Firearms, where the answer to a customer’s experience of road rage is to sell him a Glock 43 in Tiffany Blue. Subtly terrifying. John RobinsonParanoid 9pm, ITVInept policing has been one of this stuttering thriller’s many frustrations: even the greenest TV sleuth should know to arrest Michael Maloney on sight. Now his smarmy shrink has finally become of interest to the cops investigating the murder of a GP, they might be on the verge of busting a global conspiracy to pump us all full of drugs. If it’s not global, it at least extends to Düsseldorf, where cheerful detective Linda has been hiding something about her past. Jack SealeConspiracy Files: The Trump Dossier 9pm, BBC2It’s easy – and indeed appropriate – to laugh at Donald Trump. But we should be both worried and angry, too: at his cynicism, at his opportunism, at his disregard for truth and at the ominous societal currents his rise reflects. This film explores the various conspiracy theories – from Obama’s birth certificate to Ted Cruz’s father – that Trump has attempted to exploit, and runs the rule over the ignoble history of conspiracy in US politics since Watergate. Phil HarrisonDC’s Legends of Tomorrow 8pm, Sky1DC Comics meets Doctor Who in this time-travelling superhero show. Season two kicks off with a reshuffled squad of second-string goodies and baddies – including an Iron Man knockoff, a belligerent arsonist and a bisexual ninja – protecting the timestream from attack. Musketeer outfits, dinosaurs, a Nazi atomic bomb and a lecherous cameo from Einstein suggest Legends Of Tomorrow has lost none of its berserk, action-packed charm. Graeme VirtueThe Apprentice 9pm, BBC1Week five for the tyro tycoons, with the bedraggled contenders dragged out of bed at 5am for a rendezvous at Stratford’s Lee Valley VeloPark. The task: peddling a crowdfunded gadget to ease the lot of city cyclists, with options including high-end safety gilets and traffic-aware earbuds. Will the teams concoct clickworthy content that can lure thousands of cyclists to their funding pages within an inaugural 24 hours? Or just bicker relentlessly about hashtags? Mark Gibbings-JonesThe Young Pope 9pm, Sky AtlanticPaolo Sorrentino’s series is sure to get right up the robes of the Catholic establishment with its impious use of imagery. Worse for them are its central assumptions that Jude Law (AKA “Lenny”, Pope Pius XIII) might somehow land the position of Pope and that the Vatican’s cardinals are a scheming and manipulative bunch. Tonight, in the face of further plotting, Pius divides public opinion at a press conference but does gain one new follower. David StubbsFilm choiceHunger (Steve McQueen, 2008), 1.15am, Film4 New BFI fellow Steve McQueen’s debut feature is an intense account of the last weeks in the life of the IRA’s Bobby Sands. It’s a nightmarish vision of the dirty protest – when the inmates of the Maze prison’s H-block used faeces and urine to rebel against Thatcher and the authorities who refused to designate them as political prisoners – and Sands’s fatal hunger strike, portrayed with stunning conviction by Michael Fassbender. Paul HowlettLive sportTennis: The Paris Masters Coverage of the fourth day at the AccorHotels Arena in Paris. 10am, Sky Sports 1Europa League Football: Southampton v Inter Milan The Serie A team visit the south coast’s St Mary’s Stadium. 7.45pm, BT Sport 2NFL: Tampa Bay Buccaneers v Atlanta Falcons Coverage of the NFC South clash at the Raymond James Stadium. 12.30am, Sky Sports 1