Sue Jackson, who has died suddenly aged 77, was the driving force in Britain behind the craft of creating automata – moving works of art. Through her gallery, the Cabaret Mechanical Theatre, she championed a movement of sculptors turning the Victorians’ seaside arcade diversion into a contemporary art form.For 15 years Sue oversaw her permanent exhibition of machine sculptures in a corner of Covent Garden piazza in London, which made more noise than profit. Thousands of people were lured in to turn the irresistible handles that operated the sex-change machine, or made the sheep shear the farmer, or made a party of Victorian British seamen clatter their knives and forks on a table in prospect of their supper of dodo.By Sue’s definition, automata are machines with human characteristics. Her curatorial criteria also demanded pathos, charm and frequently a black wit. It was a challenge that fired the automatists. If their role was to animate machines, hers was to animate people.Friends detected that she was more committed to her audience than her profit and loss account. Accountants warned that with annual outgoings of £100,000 it probably was not wise to buy the staff lunch every day, but Sue saw it more as a family than a business. She liked to say she started Cabaret on her Barclaycard and sold two houses to keep it going. And when the show was forced out of Covent Garden in 2000 by rising rates and lack of space, she did not give up on it.Sue was born in Dorking, Surrey, daughter of Jack Gealer, owner of a gentlemen’s outfitters, and his wife, Mary, who ran a nursery school. They moved to Falmouth, Cornwall, to run a hotel when Sue was two. She attended Falmouth School of Art and was married at 19 to Peter Jackson, a local antique dealer, and had Sarah, the first of three children, when she was 20. She was an irrepressible creative spirit, writing poetry that was published in Ambit magazine and running a shop in Falmouth selling craft objects, including her own painted plaster of paris cakes, and some wooden wave machines and simple toys with moving parts made by a local schoolteacher and family friend, Peter Markey.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Barecats by Paul Spooner. Photograph: Cabaret Mechanical Theatre 2007These were a success, and when a carpenter, Paul Spooner, brought in some beautifully carved elephants, she told him to make something more interesting – something that moved. Spooner gave full rein to his most profound preoccupations of the time and returned with a hand-cranked model of Anubis, the jackal-headed Egyptian god of the dead, drawing a sausage. It was a seminal moment in the evolution of British automata.She persuaded other artists, including an art school friend, Ron Fuller, to contribute pieces, and the shop began doing good business, though Sue was soon putting up “Not for sale” signs on items because she could not bear to let them go. A different business model was called for, and a coin-operated turnstile was installed at the door. It was the first collection of contemporary automata in Britain – she would not allow anyone to call it a museum. She named the shop Cabaret, after the film she admired. She was woken one night (she lived above the shop) by the knocking of a pair of Russian sailors who mistook it for a nightclub.Had the local council been more enlightened and given her permission to take over a larger premises by the pier, she might still be in Falmouth. But they were not, and in 1984, in typically impetuous style, she took out a lease on the Covent Garden property and moved, lock, stock and crankshaft, to London, leaving a written account of Falmouth council’s shortcomings in the window of her shop.London was a gamble that succeeded, by opening her automatists to a global audience and creating a new market of collectors willing to pay for original pieces. After leaving Covent Garden, she ran the business from her home in Pimlico, managing to turn it into a successful worldwide touring show and educational resource. Soon, in association with the Crafts Council, there will be a UK tour celebrating 40 years of British automata, an exciting prospect that Sue was able to help plan, if not witness. It would be hard to think of another body of work that so well sums up British creative ingenuity, irreverence, idiosyncrasy and humour.Sue retired in 2013, handing over the management of Cabaret to her daughter Sarah.Peter died in 1987. Sue is survived by her children, Sarah, Caroline and William, and five grandchildren.• Sue Jackson, automata collector and artist, born 21 December 1938; died 14 April 2016