Those of us who enjoy the fruits of the BBC – everything from Planet Earth II to Fleabag, from The Missing to Strictly, from Radio 3’s The Listening Service to Jarvis Cocker’s The Sunday Service on 6 Music – tend to do so without worrying over-much about how the BBC is run. And yet it is the delicate mechanism of BBC governance – the manner in which its director general is supported and made accountable, and the BBC’s independence is upheld – on which depends the bounty that the public, in Britain and beyond, enjoys. This independence underpins the BBC’s impartiality: its aim, not always perfectly realised, is to report the news without fear, favour or bias.This week interviews are being held to select the chair of the BBC’s new unitary board, which replaces the BBC Trust. Designed a decade ago as an independent body, the trust was judged to be insufficiently robust when the BBC stumbled into crisis in 2012 over reporting missteps that claimed the scalp of the then director general, George Entwistle. It is important that this new system is tough enough to withstand future crises; the BBC cannot be in a position of changing its governance system every time disaster strikes. The first step to success, or otherwise, will be in the person of the new chair. The quality of the rest of the board – with its five independent non-executives, its four members recruited through the public appointments process, and its four executive members – depends in large part on that person’s qualities.What, then, are the qualities required? First, it is essential that he or she is visibly independent of the government and is appointed in a manner that is open, transparent and fair. The prime minister must resist the temptation – which is being strongly urged in some quarters – to insert someone from her own political circle into the role. The BBC has had fractious relationships with governments of all stripes, from John Reith’s struggles with Stanley Baldwin over coverage of the General Strike in 1926 to the bust-up with the Labour government over the reporting of the Iraq war from 2003. No doubt there will be rows in the future, too, but the BBC’s most significant strength – and the one that makes it such a trusted purveyor of news, especially beyond British shores – is precisely its independence from the government. What has sustained the BBC since 1922 is the fact that it is a public, not a state, broadcaster.Second, the new chair must not be a wrecker, a figure sent in aggressively to “sort out” the BBC. What the BBC needs, now, as its new 11-year charter comes into force from 1 January, is a period of stability. It has to cope with cuts of £750m a year by 2020 – imposed by George Osborne. It needs nurturing rather than browbeating: its chair ought to be a figure who can inspire the corporation to do its very best creative work and its most vigorous, fearless reporting. At the same time, it is vital that he or she is no walkover, no enabler of the excesses that the BBC can sometimes be tempted towards: the chair must be able to say “no” to the BBC, and, with a strong moral core to steer her or him, save it from its own occasional vaingloriousness. Tough-skinned, emotionally intelligent and with a steady touch in a crisis, the chair must also lack ego. The successful candidate must be prepared to be that most thankless and noble of things – a selfless public servant.