Deep Waters by Lu Hersey is about a girl named Danni who lives an ordinary life with her mum. Her parents are divorced and she hasn’t seen her dad in a while. She is an average girl, with a guy best friend and her mum works at a shop for their source of income. Everything is fine. It’s not great, it’s not extraordinary but it’s not bad either.Everything works this way until Danni comes home to finds her mum is not in; she waits all day but she doesn’t return. Naturally, as the only child and the only person at home she freaks out and calls her dad. Some unusual looking liquid runs down her hand which does not look like sweat. Then the story progresses as she goes to her dad’s house, meets a few people and finally finds her mother in a mental asylum. Oh, and she also found out that she has a grandmother and that their kind have special powers.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This story is written from the first person point of view which makes sense as Danni is the protagonist of this story. Danni faces a lot of trouble living in her dad’s little town and things only get worse chapter by chapter. Danni meets a beautiful boy and his very rude aunt. When Danni realises she is special, she rides through a roller coaster of emotions which distract her from her everyday living. She now only has one and only goal which is to make her mom normal. Can she do that all by herself with a killer on the loose?  This story is very fast-paced in the beginning but towards the middle it slows down. I think that Hersey is just trying to stretch the story but I think that it doesn’t really affect the plot. The story is a new concept to me because it’s based on old Celtic myths and the author easily adapts those stories and produces it into this book. This is the kind of book you would want to read after you finished a very gripping novel so that you don’t fall into a reading slump, it’s a one book series and not a lot happens throughout the book. So if you think you are bored of reading books, you must read this to lift your spirits. Overall, this book was interesting and I am glad I read it. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!