You can almost feel the beating heart of 131 Troutman Street when stepping on its dusty old front porch. For nearly 15 years, the two-storey row house in Bushwick, Brooklyn, has served as the headquarters for the staunchly independent soul label Daptone Records. The imprint has come to represent talent and prestige, but here today, the space feels a bit like a punk commune. On the ground floor is the recording studio, the aptly titled House of Soul, where analog equipment has been used to make records by the likes of Sharon Jones and the Dap-Kings, Charles Bradley, and Lee Fields. It’s also where the Dap-Kings recorded material for Amy Winehouse’s 2006 album Back to Black.Sharon Jones interview: 'My passion comes out in my music' Upstairs is a messy kitchen, its purple walls lined with plastic containers filled with Sharon Jones band merchandise. A fluffy black and white puppy wanders around. Down the hall is an open office room where the label’s four employees have desks, and the entire back catalog is stored with dozens of titles stacked and shelved in no particular order. Behind one desk is a bumper sticker that reads: “Drum Machines Have No Soul.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In the downstairs hallway, stacked cardboard boxes sit below a mosaic of crooked framed album covers: packs of vinyl by The Budos Band, an Afro-soul nine-piece with four records on Daptone, and Menahan Street Band, a local instrumental funk outfit whose songs have been sampled by Jay Z and Kendrick Lamar. In a pile beside those records is the latest release, a shipment of albums by the Mystery Lights, a young New York City garage quintet whose debut 12-inch is the first from a new garage rock-centered Daptone subsidiary, Wick.“We had always been huge fans of Daptone,” the Mystery Lights’ frontman, Mike Brandon, says, sitting at the kitchen table. “And loved the fact that you could go into a record store and into the Daptone section and pick out anything and know that it’s going to be a good soul record.” According to Brandon, on the first night the band hung out at the House of Soul with Daptone staff, they listened to albums by the Remains and the Standelles, and immediately clicked. “We all just got along and knew – this is the new family. It was exciting.”The environment at the Daptone house was familiar to Brandon and guitarist LA Solano, who have been playing together for 15 years and started the band as teenagers in Salinas, California. “We just wrote songs in the basement for years,” says Solano. “I don’t think we really knew [Daptone] was this set up, which was really comforting. Because it’s the same kind of stripped down way of recording that we would prefer to do anyway.” The line-up of the band has been fluid over the years, but now firmly includes Alex Q Amini on bass and Kevin Harris on organ. When we meet today, they are working on finding a drummer for their next tour. (It starts this Thursday in San Antonio, Texas, and takes them all over the US.) Wick, as a concept, has been in the works for years – an imprint that would take the same pure, no-frills spirit that Daptone has channelled into soul and funk, and breath life into the world of rock’n’roll. It was dreamed up by two employees of Daptone: the label’s production manager, Mikey Post, and the studio’s head engineer, Wayne Gordon. Both Post and Gordon started at Daptone as interns eight years ago and have worked at the label ever since, maintaining their own musical outlets as well. Post plays in two bands, the Jay Vons and Reigning Sound. Gordon co-owns the local Bushwick bar Our Wicked Lady and is a songwriter who has contributed work to the last two Sharon Jones records.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sharon Jones and the Dap-Kings. Photograph: Jacob Blickenstaff“It’s like two kids with a playhouse,” says Gordon, laughing, sitting next to the mixing board in the recording studio.The studio itself is brimming with stories: concert posters for Sharon Jones and the Dap-Kings’ multiple shows at the Apollo. A corner bookshelf crammed with reels of tape archives, the result of their eight-track recording process. Printed lyric sheets strewn on the floor. A chalkboard reading “SJDK VII” across the top, seemingly marking off track-by-track progress on the new Jones album.“When we’re recording, we just think about what feels good in here,” Gordon says. “A lot of people that record music are thinking, ‘What are the masses going to think? What’s cool?’ But here, we’re not saying, you need to record with this person because it’s going to sell a million records. We’re recording these bands, these people, because that’s what feels good to us. Going into Wick, it’s the same thing.”Daptone is a label run for musicians, by musicians, which leads to a particularly meticulous and self-sustaining work ethic – values that will be filtered into Wick as well. “The entire creative process is self-contained,” says Post, of Daptone. “We do pretty much everything in-house that we can. Everybody experiences everything, from the band coming in to check out the space, to the LP being pressed. We’re all a part of that process. I’ve always respected that model, and want to continue that tradition with rock bands.”According to Neal Sugarman, who co-founded Daptone in 2002 alongside Gabriel Roth, the idea for Wick has been kicking around for a while. The forthcoming roster also includes Mark Sultan and the Ar-Kaics.“Daptone is putting out records that we really love,” Sugarman says. “We don’t put out a lot of records. One or two or three records a year, tops. That’s really not a lot of records compared to what other labels put out. I hope that’s one of the reasons people are excited about Wick, is that we’re going to take that same kind of ethos into rock’n’roll. I can’t say how many records we’re going to get out, but I can say that we’re only going to put out records that we really believe in and really love.”Maintaining a lean operation, from the low-key office space to the smallest staff possible, has been part of the conscious decision-making that’s allowed Daptone to operate on its own terms for so long, at its own pace, without any influence from major label distributors. “I’m from the punk rock era,” Sugarman says. “It just always stuck with me. Major label, bad. Independent label, good. It’s really not much more than that.”And so Daptone and its imprints are set on not answering to anyone. “It’s really clear,” he says. “We don’t have to compromise.”The Mystery Lights self-titled debut is out now on Wick Records