A memorial stone to the poet Philip Larkin, inscribed with lines from one of his most famous works – “our almost instinct almost true/What will survive of us is love” – will be unveiled in Westminster Abbey on Friday evening, the 31st anniversary of his death.Larkin belongs in Westminster Abbey – but plenty of other writers do too When Larkin attended the unveiling of a memorial to fellow poet WH Auden in 1974, he grumpily remarked in a letter to his mother: “Poets’ Corner seems to be getting pretty crowded! No doubt there will be room for me.” Now, far from plot 81 in Cottingham municipal cemetery near Hull – where he was buried under a stone starkly inscribed with his name, dates, and the single word “writer” – his own memorial has finally been installed in the abbey.The Purbeck limestone has been carved by Martin Jennings, who previously created a statue of the poet for his adopted home town of Hull. Jennings notes wryly that although Larkin has had to wait twice as long as Ted Hughes for a place in the abbey, because of the position of the stone his is an inch larger all round. “Maybe his spirit’s had the last laugh,” he said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Philip Larkin, who died in 1985. Photograph: PAHis stone lies at the foot of Anthony Trollope’s, and a few places away from Lord Byron and Dylan Thomas. The abbey’s masons, according to tradition, have placed a new penny under the stone to date its installation.The famously contrarian Larkin described himself as “an agnostic, I suppose, but an Anglican agnostic, of course”. The dedication ceremony will be led by the dean of Westminster, with an address by poet and author Blake Morris, and readings by Anthony Thwaite, president of the Philip Larkin Society, which commissioned the memorial, the artist Grayson Perry, and the actor Sir Tom Courtenay.The tender lines – certainly untrue of Larkin, who will be remembered for his magnificent poetry, not his tangled love life – are from his 1964 poem An Arundel Tomb, inspired by a monument in Chichester Cathedral. Many pedants have pointed out that the poet got it wrong – it is knight’s right hand, not his left, which lies ungloved in his wife’s – and some have suggested that the touching detail is the work of a later restorer. The poem remains his most loved, has sent streams of of literary pilgrims to see the monument, and has been read at many funerals since his own.