Most sustainability efforts focus on fixing problems. Whether the solution involves installing air filtration systems on cruise ships, lobbying for safer meat production or restricting microbead usage, it usually comes after a problem has become a crisis.But what if we could head off the problem at the beginning of the process, instead of at the end? What if, instead of trying to reduce the emissions from fossil fuels, we could skip the fossil fuels entirely? What if, instead of dealing with the environmental and health problems created by meat production, we could take cattle out of the process?Of course, it’s incredibly important to call out problems, such as when microfibers end up on shorelines around the world. But for the last nine months, our blog on the science behind sustainability solutions, which wraps up Tuesday, has given us a chance to also explore early-stage interventions that can potentially not only solve problems, but even prevent them from occurring – or recurring – in the first place.In the case of fossil fuel usage, for example, we’ve looked at researchers in the burgeoning artificial photosynthesis field, which is trying to disrupt the traditional fuel-creation-usage-pollution process by using photosynthesis to turn atmospheric carbon dioxide into fuel for cars.The carbon cycle is only one of many processes that scientists are working to disrupt for the sake of people and the planet. In California, researchers at UC Irvine have discovered how to “unboil” an egg by untangling the protein strands of a cooked egg and returning them to their original state. In addition to opening the door to gastronomic innovations, this discovery also holds hope for less expensive methods of cancer discovery and treatment.Speaking of artificial foods, we’ve also reported on researchers around the world who are working to create synthetic meats. In addition to expanding the vegetarian diet, these processes – including in-vitro meat development and new, algae-based organisms – could circumvent the expensive, wasteful and environmentally damaging process of traditional meat production. In the process, they could open the door to a vast array of products, from artificial eggs to biofuels.Of course, for synthetic foods to truly make a difference, companies will have to overcome consumer distaste for synthetics. And therein lies what is, potentially, the biggest roadblock to sustainability: the human brain. Humans tend to ignore destructive long term trends, and researchers have found that this problem stems from the way that the human brain functions. Put simply, we’re designed to handle sudden, intense crises, not problems that develop over generations. The key, some experts argue, lies in transforming the long term into the short term, focusing on immediate impacts, not the slow-developing trends that create them.Tied in with all this is the question of how we can create a sense of impact and import around problems that are only beginning to emerge. The key is recognizing how disparate issues – concerns like declining wolf populations or insufficient corporate sustainability efforts – connect to the larger, longer-trend problem of developing a sustainable economy, and a sustainable planet.