Isabel Wilkerson’s 2010 bestseller offered a long overdue account of an event in the United States that had a major impact on the cultural fabric of the country: the migration of African Americans out of the south during the early and mid 20th century. When we speak about the history of US migration, this diaspora is rarely mentioned. Cities like New York, Detroit, Chicago and Oakland were end points for many black Americans fleeing Jim Crow and segregation – often by the same railroad that took settlers out west. Would Detroit have produced the historic music of Motown without the hope of a better life that propelled some black southerners on their way to the mid-west? While many made this journey, this well-researched tome focuses on three people who left the south filled with hope during different periods: Ida Mae Gladney, George Starling and Dr Robert Foster.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Starling was intelligent, a man who dreamed of life beyond the citrus groves and was always destined for college. While he eventually owned a brownstone in New York City, it could not save his unhappy marriage. As fate would have it, he got a job on the railroad – a job that frequently brought him back to the south, the very place he had so longed to escape. He eventually made enough peace with the south to go back to live there as an old man.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Truth teller … Isabel Wilkerson at her home in Atlanta, Georgia. Photograph: AlamyGladney and her family snuck out of Mississippi by a night train. To her mother’s chagrin, she followed the path trodden by her siblings, who had already ventured to Ohio, Syracuse and Milwaukee. She became a nurse’s aide, and her close-knit family eventually saved enough to purchase a multi-family home in Chicago. She lived well into old age, and her children kept her room just as it was for many years after her death. Foster’s father told him to follow his dreams, as his own had fallen apart. So Foster packed up his 1949 Buick and drove alone out of Monroe, Louisiana, in search of a better life in California. According to Wilkerson: “Perhaps he might have stayed had they let him practise surgery like he was trained to do, or let him walk into the Palace and try on a suit like anyone else of his station.” He sent for his wife and daughters after he had established a private practice in Los Angeles. He had a thriving career, threw fabulous parties, and became the go-to doctor to many other southern émigrés – including the musician Ray Charles.Mike Brown’s shooting and Jim Crow lynchings have too much in common. It’s time for America to own up | Isabel Wilkerson Against all odds, these brave souls turned hope into action to create the best lives they could under difficult circumstances. Their new lives were not without disappointments: they dealt with grief and loss, seeing their adopted neighbourhoods take a turn for the worse, with new forms of racism. But they also gave hope to younger generations that they might also start afresh – even if their new lives were only slightly better than the ones they left behind.My family placed their own stakes in this migration in their various journeys from South Carolina to Boston. Growing up in Boston had its challenges, but I had an amazing education that set me on the path I follow today. As an adult, I also migrated in search of my own other sun, via a three-day train ride from Boston to Los Angeles, one week after graduating college. I was the only person in my family to live out there, so I was a bit of a pioneer. Years later, I made my way back east and now proudly call myself a New Yorker. The Warmth of Other Suns shows how hope can get people through the most intense situations, but action is required to make them something more than a dream. These actions will likely involve sacrifices – but they may not be in vain. Individual hopes can collectively change history.