Bed down with Van Gogh, your Airbnb host for the night I am not sure I want to sleep in Vincent van Gogh’s bed. But it’s a door now open to you, thanks to the Art Institute of Chicago, which has created a three-dimensional simulacrum of Van Gogh’s bedroom in Arles, as he painted it in some of his most moving works. The room can be rented through Airbnb, allowing up to two people the chance to sleep in style in this recreated room in Vincent’s Yellow House.It seems a bit like staying in a recreation of the Prague bedroom where Gregor Samsa awoke to find he had changed into a giant insect, or even the Bates Motel film set. Because Van Gogh was not a happy bunny in that bed. His domestic interiors are self-portraits in loneliness. His bed is like a saint’s solitary berth, the humble decency of his room a dignified attempt to fight off night terrors. And the attempt at homeliness failed, as we all know: one night, Van Gogh turned up at a local brothel and gave a prostitute the ear he had lopped off his head.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Boutique hotel, Venetian style … St Ursula’s Dream by Carpaccio. Photograph: AlamySo, sleep there if you will, but perhaps there are cosier beds in art that would make for a more tempting Airbnb destination. A weekend in Venice might be enhanced, for example, by staying in the bedroom of St Ursula as it was painted by Carpaccio in about 1495. This is surely one of the most beguiling bedrooms in art, a lovely picture of the kind of room wealthy Venetians slept in more than 500 years ago. Spacious and furnished with restrained luxury, it would make a fantastic hotel. A Venetian entrepeneur should go about recreating Ursula’s room – with carpaccio, the dish named after this magical artist, for supper when you arrive, obviously.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Museum with a charming B&B attached … Rembrandt’s A Woman in Bed. Photograph: AlamyAnother great bedroom to recreate would be Rembrandt’s. Actually, it has been recreated. It may not be quite accurate to call any room in Rembrandt’s surviving Amsterdam house a bedroom in the modern sense, but cosy nocturnal scenes often appear in his paintings and prints and a snug box-bed like those he portrayed has been reconstructed in his house. This charming museum should offer sleepovers.In truth, though, beds in art are rarely places to rest easy. The huge four-poster in which the decadent artist Aubrey Beardsley portrayed himself as a “monster”, esconced in his luxurious lair, might make a fine stop-off if you are planning a weekend of drugged ecstasy or Fifty Shades sex. Or perhaps Tate Britain can raise some extra funds by selling a night in Tracey Emin’s bed. There would have to be a strict rule to leave it as you find it. No tidying up, now!These are my ideal art bedrooms to stay a night or two. But what do you fancy? A night with Manet’s Olympia perhaps? Or a monastic sojourn in one of the tiny rooms decorated by Fra Angelico in the convent of San Marco, Florence? Let’s hear about your dream bedrooms in art.