Amit Lahav, artistic director of acclaimed international theatre company Gecko, admits it felt rather odd opening a show called The Wedding just as Theresa May started the UK’s divorce proceedings with the EU. But, while some may well read Brexit into the company’s latest show, the ideas and sense of uneasiness that inspired it long predate the vote to leave Europe.“It’s inevitable a show about marriage has become one about divorce, too, much more than I ever anticipated,” Lahav says. “But this isn’t a piece about Brexit. It’s about the social contract that we all have with the state, the agreement in its simplest form that says you will be protected in return for taxes and loyalty. What if you start feeling, as I have, that you are in a forced marriage and the terms of the contract – potential changes to human rights; surveillance – are shifting beneath your feet, what can you do?”That sounds pretty concrete, but as anyone who has ever seen any of Gecko’s hugely visual, exuberantly choreographed and often poetically lush shows, such as the haunting, dream-like Missing or the unsettling, Kafkaesque Institute will know, this is a company that deals in symbols, not issues.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fionn Cox-Davies in The Wedding. Photograph: Rich Rusk“It is a political show, there’s no doubt about it,” says Lahav, “but when I am making it I don’t think about issues, but about images and metaphors. I’m not thinking about Edward Snowden. I’m thinking about wedding dresses, about the physical movement of signing a contract with your whole body, the feeling of regret that may follow. I’m thinking about the space of the theatre and how to use it.” In The Wedding, the space becomes a place for celebration, for doubt, even a space where revolution might take seed. At least it did in the version I saw last Saturday night at Northern Stage in Newcastle – like all Gecko shows, this one is likely to keep changing right up to the final performance, some time in 2018.It begins with the performers arriving on stage via a chute, giggling and clutching soft toys like newborn babies. The donning of a wedding dress, symbol of the union between state and individual, is initially giddily joyous but quickly becomes something more business-like – as do many marriages. You start to see the doubts and regrets creeping in through the body language: the physical distance between a couple, a reluctance to join in the dance, the sense of dislocation, and perhaps of threat, too, in the looming shadows. The final moments seem to offer the promise of revolution – both personal and political – in the clapping of hands, the stamping of feet.“The temptation is to be intellectual, but it often leads us in the wrong direction, a place where the shows ends up being uncomfortable to watch, literal and two-dimensional, and the audience thinks: ‘I know what you are doing, you are telling us this is a bad thing.’ It’s one of the reasons I no longer watch plays, because often they are too see-through,” says Lahav. “A Gecko show has to have the endless potential to invite you in and thread the narrative of your own life into it. When a show is really working, we come out into the bar afterwards and everyone is talking about their own lives. If they are all talking about the same narrative, then I know it has got to change because we have planted it in too heavy-handed a way.”He is visibly moved when recalling an occasion after a performance of Missing, a show about a woman revisiting her unexamined life, when a man came up afterwards and simply said: “I am Lily.”“That’s when I know a show is landing. But it takes enormous time and patience. Often, in the early performances, people describe a Gecko piece as being spectacular or technically dazzling. It’s why I never read the reviews, because they are always of an early performance and they almost always admire the spectacular. I’m not interested in the spectacular. I know how to make the spectacular and it’s not hard. The difficulty is to make something meaningful, and which contains many meanings.” Sometimes even Lahav is surprised by what is thrown up. “We had been performing Institute for a while before it emerged that one of things that it was about was mental health.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amit Lahav in Institute. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThe need for time and patience means that making a new Gecko show takes many months; developing it further during performances is “exposing and demanding” for Lahav and the cast. He says they were “shell-shocked” after the first performance of The Wedding: “Their Gecko virginity was well and truly broken putting the show in front of an audience for the first time. If you don’t want to go the extra mile, you get found out very quickly. If you do, people want to be involved for years. Without really saying it, we’ve been starting to make an ensemble.”But in the end, the weight of the show falls on Lahav’s shoulders and always has. In a British theatre world that often uses the word auteur in a pejorative way, Lahav is happy to take responsibility for every aspect and every moment, right down to whether a beam of light falls on a performer just right.“It’s not about being a crazy despot, but taking care of the art form and the audience. If something doesn’t connect with the audience then it has to go or be changed. The art is a live thing and if you don’t constantly reassess it you are neglecting your relationship with the audience. The magic of a Gecko show is it allows people to author the show themselves through the prisms of what we are setting up with lighting, sound, movement and design. Without the audience and their imaginations, it is nothing, just a series of pictures. The audience’s every breath is making it. My job is to take care and responsibility for that.”• The Wedding is at the New Wolsey theatre, Ipswich, 20-22 April, then touring.