Wild Animal Reunions 8pm, ITVWhat is it like to re-encounter an orphan elephant that you helped raise but that was subsequently returned to the wild? Is there still a bond? Seemingly keyed off by the huge popularity on YouTube of footage featuring Christian the lion, purchased from Harrods as a cub in 1969, emerging from the wild to hug those who once cared for him, here’s a documentary that captures scenes of cross-species understanding. Black bears and chimps feature, too. Caroline Quentin narrates. Jonathan WrightThe Three Day Nanny 8pm, Channel 4Bobbie and Freddie are pre-school brothers who constantly fight. Their mum has struggled to recover from post-natal depression, so she leaves her partner to cope during the day – but he can’t. Enter sharp-eyed, soft-edged Kathryn Mewes for a third series of domestic bootcamps that, from the outside, look like simple advice eked out over an hour. Ironically, one problem this week is the boys’ dad may have seen too many parenting programmes. Jack SealeJane the Virgin 8pm, E4By both celebrating and parodying the turbo-charged emotional register of telenovelas, Jane the Virgin doesn’t so much blur the line between reality and fantasy as erase it completely. While nominally about estranged parents Jane and Rafael clashing over cute baby Mateo, this episode of the appealing sitcom abruptly sprouts full-blown black-and-white silent movie sequences, with the regular cast gleefully mugging in glam 1920s outfits. Graeme VirtueVersailles 9pm, BBC2Having spent its first episodes outraging public sensibilities with nudity, Versailles must now wow them with its plotting. The bigger picture of tonight’s episode is Louis’s proposed alliance with England, in order that the two nations might join forces against William of Orange and invade Holland. Louis (George Blagden) chooses Henriette (Noemie Schmidt) to negotiate – a big ask since the beginning of the episode sees her have a miscarriage. Brotherly estrangement and intrigue continue apace. John RobinsonMasters of the Pacific Coast: The Tribes of the American Northwest 9pm, BBC4Archaeologist Jago Cooper of the British Museum delves into the 10,000-year history of tribal culture in the American northwest for this new two-parter, paddling his canoe against the rugged backdrop of the Alaskan Panhandle. By developing a symbiotic relationship with their environment, the tribes achieved remarkable social complexity and stability, all without the need for agriculture. Cooper’s admiration for their achievements is infectious. GVThe Daily Show 12.30am, Comedy CentralFollowing Jon Stewart as host of America’s top current-affairs comedy show was always a tough ask of Trevor Noah and, admittedly, viewing figures have declined. Comparisons with ex-Daily Show-er John Oliver haven’t helped. But the South African Noah has a cool, quizzical outsider’s perspective and the show’s ambitious, onsite coverage of the Democratic convention, starting tonight, should provide a ratings boost. David StubbsFilm choiceSe7en (David Fincher, 1995) 11pm, TCMIn a light-starved New York, a sadistic serial killer is at work, each murder linked to one of the seven deadly sins. Morgan Freeman, as a veteran cop whose hooded eyes have seen it all, is persuaded to nurse rookie Brad Pitt through his first case, a gothic trail of death leading to a gut-churning resolution in the film’s only sunlight. Despite the nastiness, there is little graphic violence; Fincher lets the audience’s imagination do the work. Paul HowlettThe Reader (Stephen Daldry, 2008) 1.35am, Channel 4Daldry’s beautifully crafted adaptation of Bernhard Schlink’s novel boasts fine performances from Kate Winslet, as Hanna, a tram conductor in 1958 Germany who takes 15-year-old Michael (David Kross) as a lover, and Ralph Fiennes as the mature Michael who has to confront the fact that the woman he still loves was convicted of a wartime atrocity. Like the book, the film feels a little contrived, but it makes for compelling drama.The Passenger (Michelangelo Antonioni, 1975) 3am, Movie MixJack Nicholson was at his post-Chinatown peak when he turned up in Antonioni’s fascinating drama. He plays burnt-out American reporter David Locke who is on an assignment in wartorn north Africa. Back at his seedy hotel, he finds the body of an English acquaintance and impulsively decides to adopt the man’s identity. The decision leads into thriller territory – encounters with gunrunners, and with a beautiful woman (Maria Schneider) – but that all feels incidental when the real question is: why did he do it? It’s an enigma wrapped in a mystery. PHLive sportSnooker: World Open The only sport this week coming live from a Chinese middle school. 12.30pm, Eurosport 1Racing: Glorious Goodwood More from Goodwood, in the company of Nick Luck and Emma Spencer. Races at 2pm, 2.35pm, 3.10pm and 3.45pm. 1.35pm, Channel 4Cricket: Derbyshire v Lancashire From the 3aaa County Ground, a cup tie in the 50-overs format. 1.55pm, Sky Sports 2