Great British Bake Off winner Nadiya Hussain has said she has not received an offer from Channel 4 to present the show – has also not ruled out joining Paul Hollywood.Hussain has been tipped as a possible presenter or judge when Bake Off moves to Channel 4 after Mary Berry, Mel Giedroyc and Sue Perkins decided to stick with the BBC.Hussain, who won the show in 2015, told BBC Breakfast that Channel 4 had not approached her about a role.Bake Off will be a 'total disaster' on Channel 4, says Lord Sugar “I’m kind of enjoying what I’m doing,” she said. “I’ve written these books. I love writing, love cooking, love baking. I’m really enjoying what I’m doing and I don’t want that to be taken away from me. I’m having such a good time at the moment.”She admitted that the show’s hosts, Perkins and Giedroyc, were key to the show’s successful formula and will be hard for Channel 4 to replace.“They’re so important to the show,” she said. “Every time I was falling apart they would come and say ‘it’s just cake – you can do this’.”Hussain, who has presented a junior version of the show as well as a one-off BBC series in which she travelled to Bangladesh, is thought to be more likely to stay with the BBC.However she hopes that the show, which has attracted huge audiences of up to 15 million, remains a success regardless of who broadcasts it.“To be part of the show has been by far one of the best things I’ve ever done,” she said. “Change happens. Change comes and I think wherever it goes, whatever it does, I want it to do well because I’ve spent the last six years watching. I want it to do well wherever it goes, whatever happens. Hopefully it will work somewhere else.”Channel 4 has said that it is too early to have lined up anyone to join Hollywood, the only one of the current lineup to pledge to move to Channel 4.Earlier this month, Channel 4 signed a three-year deal reportedly worth £75m with Love Productions, which makes the programme, which will see Great British Bake Off move to Channel 4 in either 2017 or 2018 depending on contractual negotiations between the producer and the BBC.