Calypso Rose: Far from Home review – a glorious summer album “I am a party animal, always have been,” says Calypso Rose. Even though she is 76 and has suffered a series of heart attacks, not to mention survived cancer, she seems to be true to her word. Her manager tells me that when she passes through Piarco airport in Port of Spain, Trinidad, she often buys people drinks and has a singalong in the departure lounge.Off stage she looks a little frail. She is helped onstage by a couple of assistants, but once there it’s as though she has been plugged directly into a power source. At the Solidays festival, in Paris, she electrifies the crowd, too. At the end of a blistering set, the delirious audience continues chanting her name for an age after she finishes.More than 60 years after writing her first calypso, Tobago-born Calypso Rose is having a purple patch. Her new album, Far From Home, co-produced by rebel rock star Manu Chao, has gone straight into the Top 10 in France. It’s an utterly irresistible mix of old calypso, modern and even futuristic soca, with a dash of reggae and Chao’s trademark guitar and vocals. It looks like repeating the global success of Chao’s last high-profile production, Amadou & Mariam’s Dimanche à Bamako.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video for Calypso Rose’s Calypso Queen. I don’t have children myself but I consider myself mother to all the female calypsonians who came after me The album was already well under way, under the auspices of Belize-based producer Ivan Duran, before – as Duran puts it – “Manu came and crashed the party”. He doesn’t sound unhappy about sharing the glory, though. “Apart from anything else he is a great editor. A five-minute song would be cut down to three and given extra punch.”Chao had met Rose at the Trinidad and Tobago carnival last year. “He came round to my hotel wearing old slippers, shorts and a battered old guitar,” she says. He charmed her, and they played music together for hours. “If he wasn’t taken, I’d be very happy to become Mrs Chao.”If Chao opened some doors for her, Rose’s story is what has seized the imagination. Born McArtha Linda Sandy-Lewis in Tobago in 1940, she was one of 11 children, but she didn’t hear calypso as a child because her father, a Baptist minister, considered it the devil’s music. That changed when she went to live elsewhere.“At the age of nine, I was adopted by my uncle’s girlfriend who lived in Trinidad, and it was then I discovered calypso.” Her foster mother “loved to party and had one of those wind-up gramophones. I would dance on the table to great calypsonians such as Atilla the Hun, Mighty Terror and Duke of Iron.” At 13, she started writing calypsos and by 15, she was performing under the name Crusoe Kid and had a first minor hit, called Glass Thief. She changed her performing name because “the rose is the mother of all flowers. I don’t have children myself but I consider myself mother to all the female calypsonians who came after me.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Calypso Rose on stage at the Festival des Vieilles Charrues in Carhaix-Plouguer, western of France. Photograph: Fred Tanneau/AFP/Getty Anything I wanted to do, no one could stop me. I might have bad arthritis, but if I want to walk, no one will stop me. When she was young, church groups tried to stop her performing; calypso was a “man’s domain”. Her reply? “The lord has bestowed on me a gift and I don’t want to be like the foolish virgin in the Bible burying her talent.” And she has no time for anyone who would dismiss women, whether within calypso or in Trinidadian society. On her new album, she returns to her 1969 song No Madame, which criticised the treatment of domestic servants and has been credited with spurring legal changes to improve servants’ conditions. She has also taken aim at chauvinist calypsonians – she told Mighty Sparrow his songs are “degrading to woman” – but she also stresses that she is “fighting for everyone, regardless of sex”.Unlike much modern soca, with its relentlessly upbeat mood and basic lyrics, Rose prizes lyrical subtlety and humour in her songs. “Calypso is for dancing, but also for storytelling,” she says. “You should dance but also listen”. One of her mentors was Bob Marley, with whom she toured with three times in the 1970s. “Bob was inspired, above everything else he was a great composer.”She eventually made her peace with the church, inventing the new genre of calypso gospel, and she has become an ordained Baptist minister. One of the strongest songs on the new album is I Am African, reflecting the fact that as she has aged she has connected more and more with her African heritage: “My great-grandmother was a slave from Guinea, and calypso is all based on African rhythms.” She recalls her grandmother kneeling every evening, facing the sea, and praying to her ancestors.“Determination is my right hand,” she says. “Anything I wanted to do, no one could stop me. I might have bad arthritis, but if I want to walk, no one will stop me.”Far From Home is out now on Because records