Wonder is a brutally powerful story of a 10-year-old boy named August Pullman, who has a facial anomaly. He is an ordinary kid who plays Xbox, is obsessed with Star Wars, but despite the 27 operations done for his face he will never look normal.August had been homeschooled since he was small and he is remarkably smart for children of his age. This story commences with August going to a school called Beecher Prep for beginning his fifth grade. The story brings out all the ups and downs he faces from his first day of school until his graduation. This book is very realistic since it depicts how August gets bullied and is socially isolated for being different, therefore I think almost everyone will relate to this influential story. This book efficiently puts light onto the theme of intolerance by society towards someone who is different. Hence, it is the kind of story that I feel is indispensable for everyone to read.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This book doesn’t use highfalutin vocabulary to be impressive but rather the way it depicts society is what makes it so heart-moving and imposing. It is the kind of book that can bring tears to your eyes within just the first few pages, or have you laughing and believing that despite all the brutality in the world there’s always reason to smile. It is the kind of book that will change the way you look at the world and make you realise that everyone is fighting their own demons and no one ought to make their lives more difficult by being unkind. It also has an underlying moral that people should not let their initial judgments affect their attitude towards a person.One more intriguing aspect of this book is that it is told by various perspectives; the first few chapters are told by Auggie’s point of view, then some chapters by Via (Olivia Pullman, August’s elder sister). Then there are other incidents that transpire which are told by various characters’ perspectives, giving the readers a glimpse of each of the character’s struggles and views.RJ Palacio: I remember what it's like to feel insecure, or like I'm the odd one out The edition of this book that I read also included the Julian chapter which is a bonus chapter and was primarily published separately, so do read that too because it is like a perfect epilogue for the book and the readers can also understand Julian’s side of the story (Julian is one of the bullies who gives August a really hard time).It is a realistic and influential coming of age novel which will make you think about issues in society without even realising it.Free read! Pluto, the new Wonder story I would absolutely give this book a 5/5 and recommend it to readers of all ages. I have to say this is R.J. Palacio’s first novel and it is sheer brilliance. Buy this book at the Guardian Bookshop