David Hockney is to create stained glass for Westminster Abbey to mark the Queen’s 65-year reign – but should he think twice?David Hockney window at Westminster Abbey to honour Queen I’ve got a dread of modern stained glass. It is often painful to look at the windows of old cathedrals and churches. Above your head soars a vaulted roof, supported by massive columns and gothic arches. Tombs and epitaphs tell of bearded Tudor merchants, Jane Austen-era gentlefolk, Victorian bishops. The past has been bottled. Then you catch sight of a bright, abstract 1970s window, and it is blindingly out of place. The past is shattered like a glass hurled at a pub wall.Why do modern artists make stained glass at all? There’s something patronising in the assumption that we can easily rival the wonders of a lost cultural world. For this art is quintessentially medieval. The greatest aesthetic thinker of the middle ages, Abbot Suger of St-Denis, argued that the house of God should be filled with light, like a mystic palace. Gothic architecture made this possible by inventing the pointed arch and flying buttress, which not only allowed masons to build ever-higher cathedrals but also meant they could take the weight off walls, allowing huge spaces to be opened up as windows, then filled with colour to create some of the most spectacular art on Earth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mesmerising... Sainte Chapelle in Paris. Photograph: John S Lander/LightRocket via Getty ImagesSainte-Chapelle is hidden away in the heart of Paris, its inner beauty unguessable from outside. The walls of this 13th-century royal chapel are almost entirely made of glass. Its building is short and narrow, but its height is lofty, and everywhere you look brilliant blues and scorching reds create mesmerising effects . Stained glass is acutely sensitive to the nature of sunlight, so as the daylight changes, shadows and flashes of illumination move across the immense panels of glass.The UK, sadly, has no Saint-Chapelle. Most British medieval stained glass was destroyed in the original Brexit, when Henry VIII separated from the Catholic church and Protestant zealots went hammer-happy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Medieval stained glass depicting the murder of Thomas Beckett in Canterbury Cathedral. Photograph: AlamyWhen I complain about “modern” stained glass, what dates are we talking? It’s possible that I mean any coloured window made later than 1642. Almost all Victorian stained glass is terrible: dull in colour, mawkish in mood, grey and melancholy in effect. It is easy to see why, confronted with so many Victorian windows filling parish churches with mediocrity, modern artists decided they could do better.The 20th century also created a new demand for church glass, as wartime bombing brought yet another wave of ecclesiastical destruction. And as recently as 2013, a set of windows at Westminster Abbey that had been destroyed in the second world war was replaced with stained glass by artist Hughie O’Donoghue. Yet O’Donoghue’s windows embody everything I dislike about modern stained glass: their design is vague and soft-centred, the colours are simplistic and unsubtle. Compare this well-intentioned whimsy with the worst Victorian windows and it may look refreshing, but do so with real medieval glass – one English cathedral where it does shine is Canterbury – and it is shown up in all its ordinariness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Patrick Heron’s stained glass at Tate St Ives. Photograph: AlamyEven at Canterbury, where plenty of medieval glass survives, there are modern windows that for me are totally jarring. Ervin Bossányi’s expressionistic window from 1960 is a powerful work of art, but it does not have much to do with its medieval setting. I’d rather see it somewhere else.The greatest modern designer of stained glass knew better than to put his work in a gothic cathedral. Instead, Henri Matisse created the Chapelle du Rosaire in Vence, France – a white modern space illuminated by windows he composed at the height of his experiments with paper cut-outs. Matisse proved that modern stained glass can be great art and rival the glories of the middle ages. But he also showed it must do so on its own terms: the place for modernist glass is a modernist building.It is lovely to see Patrick Heron’s stained glass window at the Tate St Ives, but that does not mean I’d want to see it in Westminster Abbey. Perhaps the problem is not so much modern art as the Church of England. The C of E endlessly commissions new art, including Hockney’s window, because it wants to prove it is a happening, growing, force. It is not; Sunday attendances in the Church of England are now a mere 760,000 – less than 2% of the population.The Church of England hopes a window by David Hockney, or some video art perhaps, can prove that our churches are still at the heart of modern life. In reality, they are sparsely attended relics of a lost religious past, and this is what they should be valued as. The church is dying – the least it can do is keep faith with the one thing most of us go into its buildings for: history. Don’t deface the beauty of time with modern stained glass, Mr Hockney.