Mother Angelica, the nun who founded a worldwide broadcasting empire, had a strong claim to be the most influential Catholic woman in the US, and possibly the world. Preaching a profoundly reactionary message in twice-weekly homilies from her television studio in deepest Alabama, Angelica, who has died aged 92, probably reached more people than any other religious leader on earth, with the possible exception of the pope.Even after she was silenced by a stroke in 2001, her station, EWTN (Eternal Word Television Network), continued to broadcast her previous homilies, originally preached 20 and 30 years earlier to studio audiences dressed in flares and floral patterns. EWTN currently broadcasts in English, Spanish and occasionally German, 24 hours a day, on satellite channels in more than 140 countries, and has a potential Catholic audience of 250 million households. Its reach incorporates radio and the internet, as well as television, and it has also taken over the US weekly newspaper the National Catholic Register and the Catholic News Agency.Angelica, dressed in the traditional black nun’s habit and white wimple given up by most American nuns decades ago, and gazing owlishly into the camera through large spectacles, berated the liberalism and blasphemy she believed to be infecting the church. If her conversational style was folksy and informal, her grin was grim and her finger would wag menacingly as she laid into the “anti-God, anti-Catholic and pagan ways” allegedly infiltrating Catholicism, including the supposed blasphemy of supporting women’s ordination and married priests, “everything God does not want”.Now her theme is reinforced by a cadre of priests preaching similar messages, and programme schedules are bulked out with broadcast masses and devotional documentaries. The multimillion-dollar empire is sustained by thousands of monthly small donations from the devout, and its studio audiences are bussed in to the channel’s headquarters in the countryside outside Birmingham, Alabama, each day from all over the US. When I visited in 2006, the studio sets depicted book-lined studies, there were mock stained-glass windows and the grounds contained grottoes, shrines and statues among the satellite dishes. There was also a gift shop selling devotional pictures, ornaments and holy water to the faithful, and an online religious goods catalogue.Angelica was born Rita Rizzo in Canton, Ohio, to impoverished Italian parents. She and her four brothers were brought up by her mother, Mae (nee Gianfrancesco), after her father, John Rizzo, a tailor, deserted the family. They lived with her grandparents, who ran a bar, and, ironically in view of her future life, she claimed that the nuns who taught her at a local school were “the meanest people on earth”. Her first job was in a factory making candle holders, but she became a nun after deciding that God had cured her of stomach cramps following a visit to a local faith healer. “All I wanted to do was give myself to Jesus,” she said later.She joined the Poor Clares of Perpetual Adoration, a Franciscan order, in Cleveland in 1944, taking the name Sister Mary Angelica of the Annunciation and helping to establish a new monastery for the order in Canton. There, a few years later, she had a further life-changing experience when she was knocked into a wall by a runaway electric polishing machine while cleaning the chapel floor, severely damaging her back. Warned by doctors that she might become permanently paralysed, she vowed that if she recovered she would build a monastery in the deep south, and proceeded to do so when God apparently relented, though she ever afterwards walked with the aid of crutches and leg braces.Alabama was scarcely Catholic country – fewer than 2% of the population were Catholics and fiery crosses courtesy of the Ku Klux Klan were periodically burned outside churches – but in 1961 Angelica established a monastery outside Birmingham. She began to gain a reputation as a broadcaster for local radio and television stations until she fell out with a local Christian TV network when it decided to broadcast a miniseries based on an Irving Wallace novel that she considered blasphemous. She apparently marched out to the words of the channel’s vice-president, “You leave here and you’re off television. You need us,” to which she retorted: “No I don’t. I only need God.”She set up EWTN’s first studio in the monastery’s garage in 1981 and its star was soon Angelica herself: “She never prepared for live shows. She would just pray with the crew and then go on television and trust that God would give her the words to say,” Father Joseph Mary Wolfe, a member of the Franciscan Missionaries of the Eternal Word, the male order Angelica founded to service the broadcasting empire, told the Catholic News Agency. EWTN grew into a global brand as influential as those of any of the male televangelists. While it did not embroil itself in partisan secular politics, its editorial stance within Catholicism was deeply conservative and uncompromisingly traditional. Only last month Pope Francis, on the way to his tour of Cuba, sent a message asking Angelica to pray for him: “I need it.”In one of her 1986 broadcasts, Mother Angelica told her audience: “We’ll have joys in heaven that no one else will have. It’s a just reward. We shall all be happy. The rich will have their place if they have never forgot from whence comes their wealth. The poor will be enhanced if they have accepted their lot with joy. Material things are not going to matter much so long as they accept the will of God. I will have a different glory and a different joy. I will hear different music … we have been glorious in his kingdom. God loves you. I love you very much.” Then she pointed her finger at the studio audience and glared.• Mother Mary Angelica (Rita Antoinette Rizzo), born 20 April 1923; died 27 March 2016