Drake is Spotify’s most streamed artist of 2016. In a year in which the Canadian rapper and singer broke records with his track One Dance, the artist has topped many of the music streaming service’s end of year lists. Thanks to the success of his album Views, Drake accrued more than 4.7bn streams this year, more than doubling his record of 1.8bn streams in 2015.The One Dance phenomenon: why Drake could be No 1 for eternity “With the top album and the top song this year, as well as his successful Summer Sixteen tour, Drake continues to engage his fans in a way that only Drake can; it’s no surprise he is dominating the music industry,” said Spotify’s chief content and chief strategy officer Stefan Blom.With 2.5bn streams, Rihanna was the most streamed female artist both in the UK and globally for second year in a row following the release of her eighth album, Anti. Justin Bieber, Kanye West, Coldplay and Twenty One Pilots were the next most streamed male artists after Drake, while Sia, Adele, Ariana Grande and Beyoncé featured in the female top five.David Bowie was named the most popular artist in the alternative category, with Glenn Gould the most streamed classical artist, the Beatles – who made their catalogue available for the first time to the service at the end of 2015 – ruling the classic rock category, and Bring Me the Horizon topping the metal genre.  Most streamed artists worldwide 1. Drake2. Justin Bieber3. Rihanna4. Twenty One Pilots5. Kanye WestMost streamed female artists worldwide1. Rihanna2. Ariana Grande3. Sia4. Adele5. Fifth HarmonyMost streamed male artists worldwide 1. Drake2. Justin Bieber3. Twenty One Pilots4. Kanye West5. ColdplayMost streamed tracks worldwide 1. One Dance (feat. WizKid and Kyla) – Drake2. I Took A Pill in Ibiza (Seeb Remix) – Mike Posner3. Don’t Let Me Down (feat. Daya) – The Chainsmokers4. Work (feat. Drake) – Rihanna5. Cheap Thrills – SiaMost streamed albums worldwide1. Views – Drake2. Purpose – Justin Bieber3. Anti – Rihanna4. Blurryface – Twenty One Pilots5. Beauty Behind The Madness – The Weeknd