In Goat’s dressing room, high above the Coronet theatre in London, are three sofas crammed with people from Sweden. Goatman, the mysterious mastermind behind the enrobed psychedelic dervishes, drags me outside before I can talk to them. Recalling the room later, as if piecing together the scene of a crime, I see in my mind’s eye what could be any rock band from Scandinavia: tall men with lustrous hair, centre-parted, and fair women, some or all of whom are members of Goat.Their leader wants to conduct his first ever face-to-face interview (no tribal costume, no mask) in a stairwell in the bowels of the building. He leans against a wall with a bottle of beer looking uncomfortable. I sit on a step hoping he’ll join me but he doesn’t, so I’m forced to shoot my questions up at him from his feet. Let us start with something easy. Can he tell me more about Goat’s famous costumes?“Well, you know, they’re made of cotton. Most of them,” he says. It’s going to be a long 18 minutes.The atmosphere at a Goat gig is that of a festival – that rare sense of transcendence and musical open-mindedness you usually only achieve when stumbling into a tent, wobbly sleeve of Tuborg in hand. The phrase “they’re a live band” is one of rock’s slurs but it shouldn’t be. A kind of magic can be felt at the Coronet, with punters whirling and circle seats shuddering, and not because everyone’s on drugs.Goat’s scant and apocryphal biography is already well-thumbed. They are said to originate from Korpilombolo, a small village in Norrbotten county, which is home to just 529 people. The village must swell considerably when Goat are in town because, Goatman says, the band has 2,500 members.One of the pitfalls of making up stories because you don’t like doing press is that the stories themselves become a bit of a drag, so Goatman tweaks details here and there to keep himself interested. He’s long said that Goat has in fact been around for 30 or 40 years – the current members took on the mantle four or five years back when they released their debut album World Music. Today he reveals that his shamanic group actually go back two centuries. Were these direct ancestors?“Something like that.”And what does he know about them?“They were like us, but wore different clothes and ate different food,” he says, wearily. “Mostly heron. I mean, herring. And potatoes. And jam, lots of jam. Their instruments were the same, but without electricity.”The village was an awesome place, he says: “The best place, full of rejoice all the time.” He only lives there in the summer now. The rest of the time he’s in Miami. Sometimes he swims in the ocean, sometimes he rollerskates. He is trying to start a commune there, but it’s not caught on yet. (He doesn’t really live in Miami.)Nile Rodgers recently said that the great thing about Daft Punk is that they can never grow old because no one knows what they look like. But immortality does not seem to be a great concern for Goatman, who has a more mundane view of his musical creation. He is theoretically free to have a night off and put someone in his place from gig to gig, because no one knows where he is on stage. He claims this happens regularly, though one suspects it doesn’t. I ask him what it takes to be a member of Goat.“Nothing. You could be a member if you like. Just start making music in mask.”Would I have to learn anything?“No.”So it’s easy to be in Goat?“It takes no skill at all.”Their current album, Requiem, is their best yet, he says, “because it is longer”. On stage tonight, the anonymous girl vocalists sing-shout, raw and in unison, while executing joyously amateur dance moves. They wheel about in large squares of material, like children wrestling with empty duvet covers. Try My Robe, a new Goat anthem, is a self-explanatory title, Goatman says. It contains a warm invitation to partake in various of their lifestyle rituals: “share my bread,” “taste my food” – and something that sounds less like “try my robe” and more like “try my bong”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “No!” he booms. Dry my bum? “Not dry my bum. There have been many interpretations of this line. I am sorry. You’ve got to keep on listening to the song.”Would Goatman say he doesn’t like publicity?“Yes, I’d say that.”So how does he feel being on stage?“That’s not publicity, it’s performing,” he says, reasonably. “It’s making music, it’s connection with people, it’s different.” I suggest it is unusual for a very successful musician not to reveal his face.“Is it?”Yes, I say. Sometimes people want to get famous.“Sometimes people don’t want to get famous.”What would it feel like, if suddenly, one night, they took their masks off? “We won’t,” he says. “It would be a big day. And we’d have to quit, of course. We couldn’t go on stage after that. If the mask falls off during a show, it would be the last show. It would be over.”Then I hope the masks are well secured.“No, they’re very loose actually. It’s a very dangerous game.” With their career hanging by a thread every night, life in Goat must be tense. It’s not a laugh to wear a mask, he says, it’s a very serious business. Their rules on anonymity are strict. He does not want to be photographed, or seen in public. He can talk to me, but no pictures. Doesn’t he worry about a fan taking a photograph after a show and putting it online? It is amazing this has not happened.“It would be a very disturbing thing. But people respect us. Mostly, people are nice to each other and respect each other,” he says.At this point, I suggest we go back upstairs to talk to the others, but he says he’s not sure whether they like journalists up there – “So just talk to me. I’m the most social one, anyway.” He tells me that the people I saw up in the dressing room were just the crew anyway, and not actually the band. But how would one know? At their first UK gig in 2012, Goat ran their own merch stall and no one was any the wiser. Hiding in plain sight. Requiem is out now on Rocket   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 