So, we’ve reached the final furlong of this year’s Not the Booker prize. All we have to do now is vote, judge and award the glorious mug – or do we? Excitingly – and not for the first time with this prize – we have some controversy to contend with first. Generally, at this point I sum up the books with five-word summaries. This year, however, it’s tempting to use just one word for some of the contenders: meh.Perhaps that’s harsh. The truth is that none of them are truly dire. There have been some very fine things about most of them. Jemma Waynes’s Chains of Sand gives gentle human insight into a subject too often judged with prejudice and anger. As What Will Remain shows, Dan Clements has talent to spare. Louis Armand is ambitious and uncompromising. Deborah Andrews can really evoke heady 90s nostalgia. Dan Micklethwaite’s protagonist is unusual and sweet. Tiffany McDaniel has good intentions.But many of the books also have their own flaws. Most of them have been strongly criticised in the comments below my reviews. And so the question arises whether together they shine bright enough to rival our past shortlists?Perhaps they do. And even if they don’t, perhaps we should just accept it. That’s the way prizes go. And disappointment seems par for the course in 2016. What I’ve read of the Man Booker prize shortlist this year has been embarrassingly mediocre. Meanwhile, democracy has done far worse things to us in the year of Trump and Brexit than forcing us to read a few disappointing novels.On the other hand, quite a few commenters on those earlier threads in this competition have been pushing the interesting suggestion that we should include a “none of the above” category in the voting. That strikes me as a good experiment – and entirely within this year’s fashionable spirit of having our cake and eating it (think Boris Johnson on Brexit).Mind you, on that note, I have two words of caution. Firstly, anything Johnson advocates is almost certain to be wrong. Secondly, when the Pulitzer prize committee went for the “none of the above” option, it meant they failed to reward Train Dreams, one of the finest novels in the last 10 years, written by one of the best writers in the last century. So think hard and tread cautiously. Do you want to be included in the “in your face” section of Louis Armand’s Nobel prize for literature acceptance speech? Me neither. But if you really were unimpressed by this year’s selection, and want to cast a comprehensive no vote, we’ll count it, and encourage our judges to take that count into consideration.Talking of judges, meanwhile, even though there have been questions about the standard of the books, there is no doubt that the comments below the line have been superb. We’ve had some really impressive discussions. So many that the mysterious process of choosing the judges has been singularly difficult. What we are certain of is that we have (as usual) got an excellent lineup of judges this year. And that we could also have had an equally fine roster if we’d gone for different names. So don’t despair if you didn’t get chosen this time. Next year, we’ll be glad to have you.As for this year, we’re delighted to have these three:Dana LeMarr lives in Pennsylvania with her Filipino husband (whom she saved from drowning in Bora Bora), an Afghan hound, and a calico cat named Tesseract. She grew up in Tennessee, graduated from UT in English literature, and loves reading, country music, photography, and iced tea. Dana is a bibliophile, technology geek, and wears her heart on her sleeve. She is currently working on her first novel. Sara Richards is a retired pianist/piano teacher who studied at the Royal Academy of Music. She has two adult children who are both successful musicians. She lives by the sea with her husband and dog. She has been an avid reader all her life and lives in a house that has turned into a library. She blogs at bookmuse14 and is a regular poster on the books site’s Tips, links and suggestions page.Tracey Hope is a writer and teacher. The daughter of a Hull docker, she is inspired by lead mining in Swaledale. She also says that she recently went missing in deepest Salento, dancing Pizzica until dawn.The judging meeting will be held live online, at 11am on Monday 24 October. But our judges will have to contend with the votes that are cast right here, and right now, with the results from the public vote allotted two slots at the judging table. General voting remains open until 11.59pm on Sunday 23 October. The process is simple: all you have to do is nominate your favourite book in the comments below this article. Please make it easy for us by writing the word “vote”, and then specifying the title you’re going for and the author. We just want one vote from you, for one book. We’d also like to see 50 words or so explaining your choice. As ever, please don’t worry if you’ve changed your mind during the course of the competition. I refer you again to our glorious rules: Readers may vote for only one title at this stage – as before, changes of mind will be governed by clause four on indecision. A vote in support of one book at shortlist stage does not rule out a subsequent valid vote in support of a different book to win the Competition. Reviews may be written at any time before a vote is cast. Votes received on 24 October will not be counted.The shortlistChains of Sand by Jemma Wayne The Less Than Perfect Legend Of Donna Creosote by Dan Micklethwaite The Summer That Melted Everything by Tiffany McDaniel What Will Remain by Dan Clements The Combinations by Louis Armand Walking The Lights by Deborah AndrewsFinally, you also have the option of voting “none of the above” – although we’d also need 50 words on that too. On balance, my personal view is that we should be awarding the prize. But that’s just me – and at this stage, the choice is yours. So make yourself heard. Vote now.