• Spoiler alert: this blog is published after The Walking Dead airs in the US on Sundays. Do not read unless you have watched season seven episode 11, which airs in the UK on Fox on Mondays at 9pm.“Please God no!” wailed the man with chubby calves, an unbecoming hairdo and a face holding back a blubbathon of coward’s tears. “Please God no!” Good grief, Eugene, get a grip!This wasn’t an episode for heroes. It wasn’t one in which Rosita, Rick and Michonne made a stand against evil, but one foregrounding those who, out of cowardice or pragmatism, bend the knee. Eugene, as you remember, is the member of Rick’s gang who sounds like the love child of Elvis Presley and the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and has fallen into the Savior’s clutches. He was being shown to his hellish quarters by one of Negan’s lickspittles. He feared the worst – beatings, torture or being forced to touch his toes 10 times. No wonder he was in distress.But his fears were misplaced. The room had books, Pong-era video games, well-stocked fridge, bed and the promise of room service. “You can have anything you like,” said the lickspittle. “Lobster?” asked Eugene. Lobster was not on the menu, alas. But all this bounty, the lickspittle pointed out, could have been Daryl’s had he not bounced. Instead, Daryl escaped from his cell and, even now, is finessing his crossbow skills with a view to decorating Negan and his chums with sharp objects. As for Eugene, he wondered what Negan had in store for him. “You really are just an asshole,” said Negan when the pair renewed their acquaintance. It’s nice, incidentally, to have Jeffrey Dean Morgan back. Kind of missed that sexy psychopath.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kind of missed that sexy psychopath … Negan. Photograph: Gene Page/AMC“No I’m not,” retorted Eugene, looking quite the wimp as he clutched an economy sized jar of pickles. “I have PhDs in biochemistry as well as immunology and microbiology and I have completed by doctorate which makes me a doctor. Prior to the collapse I was part of a 10-person team at the Human Genome Project.” Fine (if implausible) credentials, but how, wondered Negan, would Dr Smartypants prove useful to his evil empire? Eugene glanced over at a walker whose body had been pinned against a compound fence by means of three rods. The walker was there to repel would-be invaders, but had a design flaw – its guts kept sliding out of its suspended body. Could Dr Smartypants think of a solution? He could. He pointed out that the compound already had an operational smelter. If molten metal could be poured over the walkers then allowed to harden, it would serve at least two purposes, “both maintaining bodily integrity for the walker as well as affixing them to the fence, bonus points for covering their head and protecting them from head trauma from hostiles and calamities.”Negan was so pleased that he promised to send some of his wives to Eugene’s suite that evening. “No sex,” he clarified. “That’s a grave no-no.” It was thus that Eugene made himself indispensable to Negan’s diabolical regime.But Negan was possessed by another vexing question. How had Daryl managed to escape? Cut to Daryl’s erstwhile jailer, Dwight, whose face has been ruined with a hot iron by Negan for being insufficiently submissive. He had found a note in Daryl’s cell reading “Go now!” written in his ex-wife’s Sherry’s handwriting. But before Dwight could consider matters further, Negan’s toughs burst in, beat him up and chucked him in jail for letting his charge escape.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eugene, the man with chubby calves, an unbecoming hairdo and a face holding back a blubbathon of coward’s tears. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCWhat particularly vexed Negan, though, was not just Daryl’s escape but also that one of his wives was missing. True, Sherry was originally Dwight’s wife but, as Doctor Carson pointed out, she had allowed herself to become one of that polygamous monster Negan’s wives to save her first husband’s life which, if you think about it, is selfless of her. But now she has scarpered, and Negan wanted her back – or dead. He also wondered if Dwight had been brainwashed by Daryl. “Did he break you?” Negan asked Dwight. “Let’s face it – you do have some pretty legitimate grievances.” Good point: if a man burned my face with a hot iron, I would cross him off my Christmas card list so fast it would make your head spin. Dwight denied that he had betrayed his job spec as Negan’s top drone and, indeed, even answered the following question the way the evil leader of the Saviors likes. “Who are you Dwight?” “I’m Negan.” I’m Negan – the mantra of the Savior lackeys who have chosen the way of submission.And so Dwight, ostensibly, did Negan’s bidding, climbed on a motorbike and went to hunt down his ex-wife. He didn’t find her at their old home, but did find a long note in Sherry’s handwriting. “I let Daryl go because he reminded you of what you used to be and I wanted you to forget.” At the same time, she added her ex was wrong to believe that the kind of hobbled life he was leading was better than being dead. “I hope you realise that,” she said, adding finally: “Goodbye honey.” Then something weird happened. Dwight went back to the Savior’s compound and said he had found Sherry in the woods and killed her. A lie, of course, but not quite as ingenious as what he did next, namely to place the part of the note reading “Goodbye honey” in Doctor Carson’s desk then convincing Negan that this showed Carson was responsible for Daryl’s escape. Cut to the Savior compound’s furnace where, as you know, Negan likes to mete out fiery punishments to members of staff who’ve had a bad week. “You left the door open and let my puppy out,” Negan told Doctor Carson. “You knew Sherry hated Daryl being here. So you let him out for her, be the hero then you could move in. That is some weaselly shit right there.” The doctor by now was whimpering. “But I didn’t,” he wailed: “She’s the one that ran.” Negan growled back “You know why she ran? Because she knew I would blame her, which I did. See Sherry told Dwighty-boy the whole story right before she was torn apart. A super hot girl horrifically killed because of your greedy delusional tiny little prick!”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Dwight, Negan’s top drone, stands by his utterly unconvincing story. Photograph: Gene Page/AMCWhat was weird – or to put it another way, utterly unconvincing – was that Negan bought Dwight’s improbable story at all. No matter. Dwight handed his boss an iron fresh from the fiery furnace. But instead of giving Carson face time, Negan had something more unpleasant in mind. He chucked the doctor, white coat and all, into the furnace. Which, you’d think, given the dearth of qualified medical staff in zombie apocalypse Georgia, was quite the bold decision.Up in the gantry was Eugene, witnessing all this. Carson’s death surely convinced our mullet-sporting coward not to do anything ever to make Negan cross. In particular, the murder of the wronged doctor helped explain why Eugene soon changed his mind about helping one of Negan’s downtrodden wives taker her own life.Earlier, two of Negan’s wives urged him to help a third, Amber, to commit suicide by using his pharmaceutical expertise to produce a lethal draught. Initially Eugene agreed to produce the pill, but then, after witnessing Carson’s death, had compunctions. “Pump your brakes, Red,” he told the red-haired wife who came to collect the draught. “You are a coward,” the wife told Eugene. “That’a correct assessment,” he replied.In the last scene, Eugene and Dwight met on a platform with a view over the Savior compound. Below, the walkers chained to the fence were being covered with liquid metal just as Eugene suggested. Eugene performed the introductions: “I’m Eugene. You’re Dwight. We are Negan.” It was a portrait of two men united in demeaning submission to Negan’s tyrannical rule.Eugene and Negan, never knowingly underwrittenOne of this episode’s pleasures was the gaudy patter between Negan and Eugene. Normally, Negan told the latter, he would be explaining things to him up with the business end of Lucille, his barbed-wire-wrapped baseball bat, but not today: “Eugene, see, all I want to know is if you are indeed a smarty pants. Answer the question.”“I am indeed a smarty pants,” replied Eugene, as Negan waved Lucille menacingly. “I taught myself to cast bullets … I read a lot and although my memory is not considered eidetic, I don’t skim and I don’t scrimp.” Then Eugene proved the point by coming up with his scheme to cover walkers in liquid metal. “Goddamit if that isn’t the coolest thing I’ve heard of in my life,” said Negan. “Not only is that practical, it’s badass. Look at you, Doctor Smartypants!” Near the end, Negan confronted the still-trembling Eugene and told him: “You do not need to be scared any more. You just have to answer me one question and it’s a big one. Who are – “I’m Negan,” interrupted Eugene, to demonstrate the extent of his submission. “Completely, stone-cold Negan. I was Negan before I even met you, I just needed to meet you properly to know.” 