AmazonAmazon pilot seasonWhen, in 2013, Amazon announced plans to commission shows based on user feedback of pilot episodes, it felt like a revolutionary moment in TV. Three years later, Amazon’s pilot season hasn’t quite upturned the industry in the way many had hoped, but has still produced some decent output: Mozart In The Jungle and, most notably, Transparent were both graduates of the programme. This time, Amazon is launching a host of kids’ pilots, along with a pair of adult book adaptations: The Interestings is based on Meg Wolitzer’s coming-of-age tale; while The Last Tycoon brings to life F Scott Fitzgerald’s unfinished novel and stars Kelsey Grammer.Available from FridayBBC StorePrejudice And Pride To mark London Pride the BBC has curated an LGBT-themed selection of programming from the past five decades. Among the shows prised from the vault are odd-couple sitcom Gimme Gimme Gimme, racy costume drama Tipping the Velvet, and 1993 miniseries The Buddha Of Suburbia, based on Hanif Kureishi’s coming-of-age novel of the same name. Also included is recent BBC2 hit Boy Meets Girl, an age-gap romance starring transgender actor Rebecca Root.Available from ThursdayNetflixOrange Is The New BlackAs the prison drama returns for a fourth outing, questions abound over the fate of Litchfield’s inmates. Will Alex make it out of the greenhouse alive? Can Piper continue her underwear racket? And could the inimitable Nicky Nichols (Natasha Lyonne) – shipped off to max security early in season three – make a return? Criminally addictive fun.Available from FridayYouTubeDave TALKS      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lord knows there have been enough parodies of TED talks over the years, but this effort from Dave still manages to find some laughs in the format. It sees various standups waffle on about absurd topics, from John Kearns (arguing against winning the lottery) to Katie Wix (How To Turn Around, All The Way Around In A Circle). No “talk” is longer than 10 minutes, meaning the conceit avoids growing tired.Available nowBBC3 Sounds RandomEver wondered where the buzziest bands and artists around get their inspiration? This music show sees comic James Acaster delve into pop and indie acts’ playlists in a series of short films – a Desert Island Discs for the Spotify generation. Artists featured so far include electropopper Shura – a fan of power ballads – and R&B-inspired popster Izzy Bizu, whose picks range from Ella Fitzgerald to Tame Impala.Available now PodcastModern LoveThis US pod was adapted from the New York Times series of the same name. The premise is simple but effective: celebs voice tales of relationships originally written for the paper’s Modern Love column, before the original authors are interviewed. From a Craigslist missed connection with an unexpected twist, to the story of a disabled man finding love after being paralysed (read beautifully by Colin Farrell), each episode is life-affirming without feeling cheesy.Available now