“You people were told this was coming,” unpleasant bureaucrat Joseph Cutler tells a panoply of shivering Philadelphia homeless people before he has them sprayed down with firehoses in the most recent episode of The X-Files, and I suppose the same applies to me. After last week’s marvelous Mulder and Scully Meet the Were-Monster, it was probably too much to hope that the show would forget its preoccupation with late-series quirks like the pair’s finally realized relationship, their extended families and their kid. Sure enough: while Monday’s episode, Home Again, has a great monster and quite a few clever twists, you can pretty much go to the bathroom during any of the B-plot scenes (about a health crisis in Scully’s family) and tune back in when the pair of FBI agents is chasing a monster called The Band-Aid Nose Man around Philly. Why yes, he does wear a bandage over his nostrils.‘It wouldn’t be Philadelphia without confrontation’To be fair, the episode, written by Glen Morgan, has plenty of high notes, and a bad guy you can practically smell. Our heroes are called in to investigate the murder of that awful city official who was being mean to poor people in the opening shot. Briefly, he gets yanked in twain by a giant guy who drips maggotty slime and deposits his victim’s head in the trash can (“Not even in the proper recycling bin,” tuts Mulder) before hopping into the back of a garbage truck himself.But at the scene of the crime, Scully gets an urgent call from her brother – their mom has collapsed and is at the hospital, where she runs off to do what she can while Mulder pursues the case alone for the moment.The trail leads him out the window and across the street: a popular graffiti artist has put up a gigantic mural of a guy who looks an awful lot like the killer in direct view of the victim’s office. It’s a clue – and then it’s not, because the whole section of the wall is suddenly gone when Mulder turns back.Two retired naval officersMeanwhile, Scully is by her mother’s side and also beside herself with worry. The hospital isn’t a terribly comforting place and even though she and her mother decided together that she wanted the doctors to do everything the could to revive her, they’re preparing to let her go off life support.When Scully asks why, she gets what may be the single silliest answer in the X-Files canon: despite her mother’s stated wishes to her daughter, the elder Ms Scully has changed her advance healthcare directive. “It was witnessed by two retired naval officers,” the nurse (also named “Nurse,” just like the nurse in the first episode. Possibly a relative?) tells her.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The pair of FBI agents is chasing a monster called The Band-Aid Nose Man around Philly. Photograph: FOXReally? Two retired naval officers? Is that how they sign their names? Do their grocery receipts read “Bill Smith and Steve Jones, USN, Ret, Held the Rank of Ensign or Above?” And if they do, why does Ms Nurse, RN assume that Scully won’t know them as Bill and Steve?It’s a kind of sloppiness that distinguishes the segments of the new episodes in ways that hint strongly that specific scenes and lines were penned by Chris Carter, who wrote the only show (the first one, with Nurse’s sister) so far that is just balderdash from stem to stern.Anyway, back to the garbage, where the real treasure is.‘People treat people like trash’The graffito has been stolen by a couple of enterprising reverse-vandals of the kind that plague the street art scenes in New York and London, grabbing Banksys off the sides of buildings and selling them at auction. But before the pair can decide whether to hock their new acquisition at Sotheby’s or Christie’s, they get a visit from a giant, invulnerable guy with a bandage over his nostrils and ... well, that’s a lot of spinal column for a show on broadcast at 8pm.It’s not just art thieves he’s after, either. The Band-Aid Nose Man singles out the rest of the crew who were picking on the downtrodden of Philly and tears them in two, one by one. It turns out the bureaucrats and their pals are infighting over who has to put up with a street full of homeless folks, since no one wants unsightly human beings and everyone wants condos.Scully’s mom dies, and the scene is actually genuinely moving, all credit due to Gillian Anderson. Telling Mulder she needs to work, she joins him back on the hunt and they track down the person responsible, and while it’s not quite on the level of Rhys Darby in the previous show, it is a treat to see Tim Armstrong, frontman for 90s punk scene mainstay Rancid, as a basement-dwelling spray paint mastermind who has managed to create a trash golem to advocate for the underprivileged of Philadelphia by pulling off the arms and legs of people who are unkind to them.“People treat people like trash,” Trash Man (Armstrong) tells Scully and Mulder, claiming he’s not responsible for the actions of his monster. The two are put off the scent, so to speak, for just long enough for Trash Man to escape; when he does, the pair retreat to a beach to ponder what it all means. Scully has decided that they need to find their child. “I want to believe, I need to believe, that we didn’t treat him like trash,” she tells Mulder.It’s a tenuous connection to the main thread of the miniseries, and while it’s not better than no connection at all – see last week – there’s at least some fun surrounding television to what is promising to be a truly dour melodrama over the next two weeks. Here’s hoping I’m wrong.