 Tense times for me, and sleep’s acting like a newly love-struck teen. I shall disregard the state my heart’s in and my mind’s upheavals like water bubbling past the boiling point.I am a part of the universe with which the universe is angry, a part of the earth of which the earth feels utterly ashamed, a wretched human towards whom other humans cannot maintain neutrality.Neutrality: an illusion like all the graces of which humans speak, so shamelessly theoretical. Truth is an inadequate term, just like Man,and love bumps about,a miserable fly trapped in a glass box. Freedom is very relative:all said and done we live in a ball-shaped prison barred with ozone.Set free, our fateis certain death.I am incapable of laughing.Completely incapable of smiling, even. Incapable, at the same time, of crying. Incapable of acting like a human being, which doesn’t upset me in the slightest though it hurts so to have a body covered with light down, to walk on two limbs, to depend wholly on your mind, to be drawn after your desires to the furthest point, to have your freedom trapped, to have others decide to kill you, to miss those closest to you without a chance to say farewell.What good does Farewell do but leave a sad impression? What good’s meeting? What good’s love? What good is it to be this alive while others die from sorrow over you?I saw my father for the last time through thick glassthen he departed, for good. Because of me, let’s say. Let us say because he could not bear the thought I’d die before him. My father died and left death to besiege me without it frightening me sufficiently. Why does death scare us to death? My father departed after a long time spent on the surface of this planet. I didn’t say farewell as I should have nor grieve for him as I should have and was incapable of tears, as is my habit, which grows uglier with time.The soldiers besiege me on all fronts in uniforms of poor color. Laws and regimes and statutes besiege me. Sovereignty besieges me,a highly concentrated instinct that living creatures cannot shake. My loneliness besieges me. My loneliness chokes me. I am choked by depression, nervousness, worry. Remorse, that I’m a member of the human race, kills me.I was unable to say goodbye to all those I love and who departed, even temporarily. I was unable to leave a good impression of a last meeting.Then I yielded to the rifles of longing leveled my way. I refused to raise my hand and became incapacitated. Then I was bound by sorrow that failed to force me to tears.The Knowing gnaws at me from within, killing every shot I have at survival. The Knowing is killing me slowly and it’s much too late for a cure.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tense Times, a poem by Ashraf Fayadh, Arabic versionThe translation of this poem was revised and updated on the 24th March 2016