It’s the economy, stupid. Or is it? The British people seem unimpressed by airy liberal issues such as jobs and money as, in the looming EU referendum, they head for an assertion of national sovereignty that flies in the face of all those scary warnings of instant self-imposed recession.What’s going on? Has the commercially minded populace once dismissed by Napoleon as “a nation of shopkeepers” suddenly taken leave of all economic rationale? William Hogarth’s painting The Gates of Calais (O! The Roast Beef of Old England) is more than 250 years old – Hogarth painted it in 1748 – but it can help us understand what the hell is going on in the mind of the Brexit-leaning public. The impulse driving us towards isolation, splendid or otherwise, may not be bigotry, fear of the other or any of the other horrors that Remainers imagine. It may be to do with the economy after all.Hogarth's anti-progress: how the father of British painting went missing from our galleries Hogarth’s painting is the funniest slice of cocksure nationalism in British art. It sneers at France and by extension the entire European continent. Hogarth painted it after hopping across the Channel – he appears in the painting and the print based on it, sketchbook in hand – and it’s clear he was glad to get home again. His portrayal of French life is savage. At the centre of the picture is a corpulent monk. According to Hogarth, France is dominated by a corrupt Catholic elite. This plump, cassocked fat cat is slavering over a huge slab of British beef, greasy as a butter mountain. He can’t wait to get his chops on our meat. But while this clerical bureaucrat indulges his appetite, the ordinary people of France are on the edge of starvation. In such a backward economy, hunger is a real issue, Hogarth seems to be saying. The emaciated French soldiers and servants at Calais are sad specimens compared with the contented Brits who quaff good English ale in his print Beer Street.It’s a hugely prejudiced picture of France and yet Hogarth was no bigot. His art was in many ways progressive and liberal. He goes out of his way to include all races in his portrayals of London life. O! The Roast Beef of Old England is a joke and a tease – there is no hate in it. It expresses a more subtle sentiment: economic superiority.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An Election Entertainment: William Hogarth’s scene of treats and upsets during the general election of 1754. Photograph: Lordprice Collection/Alamy Stock PhotoIn its comic way, it’s an accurate depiction of the relationship between Britain and continental Europe in the 18th century. In Hogarth’s day, Britain was pulling ahead. London was a new kind of commercial metropolis, already developing the financial and commercial characteristics it boasts today, while the industrial revolution was getting started from Birmingham to Coalbrookdale.France, meanwhile, was struggling to modernise and was trapped in an archaic system of absolutist monarchy and feudal privilege. Hogarth’s portrait of superstition and injustice matches the criticisms French intellectuals such as Voltaire levelled at their sclerotic society. Other European nations were similarly struggling to achieve modernity. Britain, in many respects, was already there.There are parallels today. Just as Hogarth sneered at French poverty from the comfort of a precocious economy, so Britain in 2016 has so far escaped the worst economic storms battering the EU. We made the right decision, most would agree, to stay out of the Euro, and London, even more so than in the 18th century, is the dynamo energising the British economy.These anti-Brexit posters show just what we lose by leaving the EU Is the Brexit mood a reflection of anger and terror and even hatred, or is it an expression of self-confident complacency? Being an optimist about human nature, I’d like to think the latter. David Cameron and George Osborne have severely miscalculated in basing their Remain case on economic warnings. Not because in some fanciful socialist explanation the workers “have nothing to lose”, but because, in the eyes of the public, Britain does seem to have a stronger economy than most of our fellow EU members. Hogarth’s painting also reveals why the patriotism that may shortly take us out of Europe is so utterly misplaced. The roast beef of Old England is there in the picture because it has been exported. Trade was global even in 1748 and it’s a lot more global now. Britain was not an island unto itself in Hogarth’s time. The wealth driving our growth was enmeshed in an international system – one we created. It was called the British Empire. Colonies in the Americas and the activities of the British East India Company in Asia were already crucial to Britain’s wealth when Hogarth painted O! The Roast Beef of Old England. The slave trade played a big part in the Georgian boom his art reflects. I am not pointing this out as a Marxist rant against the evils of Britain. The centrality of empire to our economic history has been well expounded by the rightwing historian Niall Ferguson who is, not coincidentally, strongly opposed to leaving the EU.The hidden truth behind Hogarth’s art and the fact Brexiters deny or don’t understand is that Britain has never flourished as an isolated island. Our prodigious rise to be a great power was based on the biggest global economic network in history: the British Empire. When we finally accepted its demise in the 1970s, we joined the EU – and have prospered in it.If today’s militant patriots really want to sing Rule, Britannia! they will also have to reconquer the waves.