No Man’s Land is dedicated to the author’s grandfather. Not unusual in itself, but Simon Tolkien has a somewhat unusual grandfather, JRR Tolkien, whose experiences in the Somme inspired his grandson’s fifth novel, published to mark Friday’s centenary of the battle.JRR Tolkien fought in the Somme between July and October 1916, as a signaller in the Lancashire Fusiliers. Arriving at the front on 14 July, two weeks after the battle started, he lost two of his best friends during the battle, and was invalided out in mid-October, around a month before the battle ended.“[His experiences] were very much in my mind,” said Simon Tolkien. “He died when I was 14 and … I don’t think he was someone who talked about it ... But if you read The Lord of the Rings, it’s a real war novel, and it’s clearly inspired by what happened in the Somme. His way was to mythologise.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Tolkien. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianThe hero of Simon’s novel is Adam Raine, who moves as a child from Islington to the coal-mining town of Scarsdale, where he ends up being taken in by the miners’ employer, Sir John Scarsdale, after a tragedy. His life finally starts to come together when he wins a place at Oxford, but war breaks out, and Adam ends up on the battlefields of the Somme.Simon said that he had always wanted to write about the first world war, but that he had tackled subjects from courtroom drama to thrillers in his first four novels because he hadn’t “felt ready to take on something so big”.“This moment, 1 July and what happened afterwards, has really been a magnet for me,” he said. “An unconscious part of me as a writer knew I wanted to tackle it, but not until I was ready. I’m glad I didn’t write it 10 years ago.”Simon himself grew up “free of war but not the fear of it, and I often thought about the experience of young men like my grandfather who exchanged the world they knew for the horrors of the trenches where they faced the prospect of their own extinction when they were ordered ‘over the top’.” The Tolkiens’ publisher, HarperCollins, said that JRR Tolkien was inspired by the death of his friends at the Somme to start writing The Book of Lost Tales, which went on to form the basis of his Middle-earth sagas.“It was obviously a searing experience,” said Simon. “Frodo is a real war veteran – when he comes back after what he’s been through, he is in an actual sense like a world war one veteran. He’s not there any more. He’s grown old before his time, and this is what happened to them. It made all these young men, so fresh-faced and eager, old before their time.”A criminal justice barrister before he turned to writing full time, Simon said he felt a “genuine connection” with his grandfather while he was writing No Man’s Land. “With my previous books, I felt that I’d written a book and that he would have been pleased about that, because he was a writer too. But I think this one would have been close to his heart.”