In an article he wrote for this paper before the series began, John le Carré wrote that the job of the screenwriter adapting a novel is “to wade through the entire book and … pick the fly shit out of the pepper.” He goes on to say that the scriptwriter will then deliver a treatment, which will later be forgotten. A bit withering, though he does go on to be generous about your adaptation. Is he right about the process, though?He’s being witty, enjoying himself. I would say what you have to do as a screenwriter is strip the book back to find the skeleton. When you’ve found the skeleton – that’s what you trust – you reclothe. And you can reclothe [it] in ways that are different to the novel – in fact, you probably need to. If the skeleton isn’t there, you’re in trouble.The Night Manager recap: episode five – 'nothing quite as pretty as napalm at night' How was the The Night Manager’s skeleton?Magnificent. Essentially, I would argue it’s the Faust myth, with a good angel and a bad angel whispering in his ear, and he’s not sure which one he’s more interested in, which one he trusts more, and to which he’s more attracted. Faust (obviously being Jonathan Pine) is a skeleton I can immediately trust and feel comfortable with. It’s very simple, but for me that’s why it works on screen, that central relationship between Pine and Richard Roper, with Angela Burr as the good angel in the other ear. It’s what holds the piece in a kind of tension that goes way beyond a spy novel and is something spiritual, emotional. I think Le Carré is a great, modernist writer, which is to say, in a godless world, he invokes deep, almost religious ideas of betrayal, trust, faith, and that’s why we love it. All that and you’ve got a wonderful, plotty narrative as well.Did you feel that Le Carré was looking over your shoulder? Once I’d met him and had the conversation, much less so. I think for any writer, when you write, you just write. Write first, worry later. It was largely an act of adoration doing this. I remember clearly watching Smiley’s People on television with my dad when I was 13 and it’s the same thing – understanding [how] a procedural espionage novel can also be a strangely emotional spiritual journey of one man. It felt like Heart of Darkness to me, even though it was just Alec Guinness meeting a bunch of people and trying to figure something out. So I wanted to do it because I’ve genuinely adored Le Carré’s work.Would your dad be Charles Farr, chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee?You’ve got me! No, I’m joking. No relation. I think I might have had the brilliance to have a nom de plume if he was. He’s Martin Farr, surveyor … unless there’s something he’s not telling me.Your big alterations, then: first turning Mr Burr into Mrs Burr. Is that because Le Carré doesn’t do substantial female characters?Well, he does sometimes, but it so happened that this book didn’t have that Connie Sachs-type role. It was also relevant to updating it by 20 years or so. You’ve gone past 9/11, and the legacy of that in the intelligence services is simply far greater diversity of recruitment for very practical reasons, racial as well. There may still be some element of it but it’s not the old gentleman’s club any more. Women are granted high positions and it seemed anachronistic not to acknowledge that.And shifting it forwards in time? There’s a clear political anger in the book that attracted me, and I thought that would be blunted if we kept it in 1993/94. I had a simple instinct that it needed to be brought into our world and our day. The issue seemed to be broadly the same: exploitation of other parts of the world for western gain. It was true when I started adapting in 2013; it’s tragically more true now.Not just gung-ho excitement, but serious commentary on the west’s conduct in the Middle East?How serious is probably for someone else to say. Let’s be clear, it’s an espionage drama, not a discursive piece about the legacy of the Arab spring. But I certainly thought it through. It’s an area of the world I know a little bit about.You’ve come from theatre, was it exciting writing for this kind of (massive) budget? It was reassuring that no one said: “Oh, by the way, please adapt this novel that takes places across continents, but we have to film it in Shepperton,” or something. There was a sense that scale was possible, in fact, desirable. But I think film can be more restrictive – you know you’ve got this number of weeks to film here, whereas theatre is an imaginative space, where it’s up to you how to tell your story. The big difference is the size of the audience, and that is thrilling.How will the second series work and how is it coming along? Nothing to say on that, good try.There have been a lot of rumours.Yeah, nothing to say.The final episode of The Night Manager in on BBC1 next Sunday. David Farr’s big-screen directorial debut, The Ones Below, is also out. 