I’ve got good news: special agent Dale Cooper is soon to return to our screens, and through them, our lives. And he could not have picked a better time, because if there’s one person the world needs now, it’s him.The Log Lady will be sorely missed. She was Twin Peaks' greatest hero | Hannah Jane Parkinson If you don’t already know Coop, that needs to change. He’s the hero of Twin Peaks, sent by the FBI to investigate the death of a high-school student named Laura Palmer. The first series of Twin Peaks, which started in 1990, is a landmark in television history. The second series of Twin Peaks, which aired the following year, is mostly no good but also includes some of the most startling and extraordinary material ever broadcast. The third series begins next month, after a gap of 26 years. And people are getting excited about it.For some, the appeal will lie in nostalgia. For others, it will be in seeing how the cast have aged and how their characters have developed. There will be those desperate for the first mentions of damn fine cups of coffee or impressive slices of cherry pie. And yet it is the figure, the character, the very idea, of special agent Dale Cooper that is surely the most significant component, for he is the antidote to so much that’s poisoning the world.If you fear that more and more aspects of our lives are being dictated by algorithms, Coop is your man. If, like Robert Newman, you’re worried that public discourse is being taken over by a bleak and reductive view of humanity, Coop is coming to save you. If you’re aghast at seeing beauty fall prey to greed, Coop is on your side, and in ways more profound than you may at first imagine.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Twin Peaks: all the pie and coffeeWhen Cooper declares midway through the first series that “I know who killed Laura Palmer,” he’s responding not to some fresh evidence uncovered by the forensics team, or to a confession obtained during interrogation, but to a dream he just had involving a red-curtained room in which everything happens backwards and forwards at the same time. When he’s explaining his modus operandi to the local police, he does so by way of a lecture on Tibetan mysticism. When Laura’s killer is eventually caught, it’s after Cooper has a vision of a giant man intoning the fearful words: “It is happening again.” To Coop, the truth still matters, and facts still matter, and right and wrong still matter To Cooper, instinct and insight are essential in understanding the world. He understands that truth is to be found not only in that which can be measured and counted, but also in the abstract and numinous, and that emotional intelligence is as important as factual knowledge and analytical capability. But he’s no new age woo merchant: to Coop, the truth still matters, and facts still matter, and right and wrong still matter.Cooper appreciates that reality is broader than our perception of it. He teaches us that meaning can be found in nonsense; he encourages us to pay attention to our dreams. He accepts as evidence that which lesser mortals would dismiss: he takes seriously the words of a woman who claims to receive messages from a piece of wood. And his efforts are complemented all the while by the more earthly work of the local police team, without which he knows he could not do his job.It is my conviction that we need more of this sort of thing. Progressive voices in recent years have mistakenly believed that all they need do is appeal to reason; all the while, reactionary voices have gained the ascendancy through appeals to emotion. Cooper understands that both are essential in the discernment of truth.Do we need a Twin Peaks revival when TV is so much weirder now? And if we really want to understand the world, we need to accept that quantitative approaches alone will be of limited use. Take as an example John Harris’s short film about Nuneaton, made just before the 2015 general election. It comprised only opinions, anecdotes and images, yet it gave a far clearer picture of the direction of events than was managed by any of the supposedly scientific opinion polls that informed much of the media’s coverage and ensured it missed the bigger story.Cooper reminds us that feelings, when considered judiciously, are of great value in any meaningful search for truth. Yes, he’s a made-up character, born from the minds of David Lynch and Mark Frost; but works of fiction often abut with real life in meaningful ways. Our future depends on those whose minds are open, whose hearts are soft and whose devotion to justice is unswerving; in each respect, there is no better role model than special agent Dale Cooper. So welcome back, Coop. You deserve those doughnuts.