Adam has finally realised what everyone watching Cold Feet 2.0 has known since the start: that he has feelings for Tina the landlady. Look at him, he’s panting, his tongue’s hanging out like a randy dog. He is a randy dog. So what’s Tina’s relationship status? It’s complicated. No, it really is, with a dead husband and a married boyfriend. More complicated still, now she’s met married boyfriend’s nice wife.Pete seems to be over his near suicide and is getting into mindfulness, like Gwyneth Paltrow (I think they might have a lot in common). Though I don’t think Gwynnie does it in Salford Lads’ Club … Salford Lads’ Club! As featured on the sleeve of The Queen Is Dead, and in the video of There is a Light That Never Goes Out. To be honest, Pete might have more in common with Morrissey – miserableness for starters. It would’ve been nice to have some Smiths on the soundtrack, but I doubt Morrissey would sanction it.The other great location is the excellent bar where Tina and Adam have a drink. Obviously anyone in Manchester will know where that is, so if you could you let me know please. Cold Feet doesn’t get out of the house much, but when it does it does so well. Last week it was that brilliant quarry, though obviously the circs (Pete’s near suicide) were less than brilliant. And I liked the infinity pool in Singapore. Remember Singapore? It seems like a long way away now, from Salford.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David’s soon-to-be second ex-wife is going to screw him for all he’s worth. Photograph: Big Talk Productions/ITVRobyn! David’s soon-to-be second ex-wife. I’d like to have seen more of her in this series; she’s brilliantly withering. And she’s going to screw him for not just the whole house, but half his pension, ha! He’s already had to dip into his daughters’ university money – dip into as in had the lot. He’s a snake isn’t he? Though I do like David too.But this is Tina’s time in the spotlight. She’s got to make decisions now that she and Adam have finally kissed (she had to slap him first). Will it be Adam, or the married boyfriend … who’s here! Is there going to be a fight? Fight fight fight fight! No, he’s got his guitar and he’s serenading her on the doormat: “Because you’re gorgeous, I’d do anything for you.” Babybird must have been OK about their song featuring. But married boyfriend needs a slap for that now, doesn’t he?