Performance artist Deborah de Robertis vowed to continue making an exhibition of herself after stripping off in front of a nude painting by Edouard Manet led to her spending nearly two days in a police cell.The 31-year-old was unrepentant after a Paris judge threw out a charge of public indecency after she stripped off at Paris’s Musée d’Orsay and mimicked the pose of Manet’s celebrated painting, Olympia, wearing nothing but a portable camera to film the public’s reaction.“I wanted to represent the model in the painting but in a contemporary setting. But the guards ran up and covered me with a sheet then stood in front to hide my nudity from the public,” De Robertis said on Monday, shortly after she had been released from police custody.“I’d taken some friends along as a kind of false audience and set up a mise-en-scene so they’d applaud if the situation got difficult, but other spectators in the real audience were clapping too. The guards were trying to clear the room, but not everyone wanted to leave.”As De Robertis attempted to continue her performance on Saturday afternoon, museum staff asked her to get dressed. When she refused they called the police who hauled her off and put her in a cell.After appearing in court on Monday, the Luxembourg-born artist accused the Musée d’Orsay, which is exhibiting Manet’s Olympia as part of its Splendours and Miseries: Images of Prostitution 1850-1910 exhibition, of “total hypocrisy”.“The museum is perfectly happy to use nudity when it comes to encouraging people to come to the exhibition, and there are even pornographic films being shown in the museum, but when it comes to a contemporary artistic performance like mine, they don’t recognise it as art, and they censor it,” De Robertis said.“They like nudity in art, they just don’t want it to be moving. I don’t understand how you can have this kind of exhibition if you are not prepared to go to examine nudity in the real world.”De Robertis has history for scandalising the Musée d’Orsay. In May 2014, she posed exposing her vulva in front of Gustave Courbet’s Origin of the World, which depicts female genitalia.“In both cases, I chose works of art that scandalised people at the time they were produced, so another aspect of what I am doing is to recreate the scandal in a contemporary setting,” De Robertis said.“This time I wanted to show the feminine model Olympia in the age of the iPhone.”A spokesperson for the museum said: “The guards reacted quickly. They closed the room and asked her to get dressed. When she refused, the police were called and took her away.”The artist’s lawyer, Tewfik Bouzenoune, said arresting artists and throwing them in a cell was a “seriously negative message”.“The Musée d’Orsay has organised this and other exhibitions featuring nudity and there are posters advertising them all over Paris. So, the museum is happy to use the nude as a marketing tool, but refuses to see an artist posing naked as art.“Deborah de Robertis is an artist. She was just doing her job. She made a performance and ended up in a police cell. We have to ask what kind of impact this sort of censorship has on the creativity of artists if they have the sword of legal action hanging over them.”