We knock on the red door. A bell rings. The door is opened and we are on the way to the underworld. The audience – only 12 of us – follow in single file down the wet path until we come to a metal ladder. One by one we descend. Then we pass into a damp, dark space, press a coin into the palm of Charon and bend almost double to walk four steps and emerge into a chamber under the Clifton suspension bridge. The walls are mottled with mould. Fronds grow from the roof. Water drips. It’s as cold as hell, and that’s exactly where we are supposed to be in Insane Root’s version of Orpheus and Eurydice, played out in the vault below Bristol’s famed bridge.The show – a brief jog through the well-known story – is charming, performed with verve and passion by the quartet of actors, and features some haunting music from Ellie Showering. But to be honest it is the venue that is doing most of the work here. The thrill is in the sense of being in an illicit space. The journey to hell and back is a crucial part of the experience, and the part that is likely to be remembered as much, if not more, than the show itself.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Insane Root’s production Orpheus and Eurydice in the vault below the Clifton suspension bridge. Photograph: Craig FullerDoes this matter? Probably not, because we know exactly what we are signing up for. Insane Root – who previously performed Macbeth in Redcliffe Caves – have already added extra performances to the schedule, such is the demand. There were probably plenty of people who never considered seeing Macbeth in a traditional theatre setting who would have been intrigued by the prospect of experiencing it in the caves, and many will see Orpheus and Eurydice for the first time for the same sort of reason. But while there may be no particularly good reason for setting Macbeth in a cave, putting Orpheus and Eurydice underground is a particularly clever marrying of site and content. It makes us identify with Orpheus on his dislocating journey into the underworld to try to reclaim his bride. Who, on the path back up to the bridge after the show, can resist looking back like Orpheus himself?If it’s not just to be a gimmick, location and play have to be well matched. A great space is not enough. Punchdrunk are wizards at transforming a space and dressing it but there has to be a reason why a show is taking place in that particular space. Titus Andronicus in a car park? Fine, but there has to be a good reason – and not just because it’s cheaper than hiring a theatre and because there’s an appetite for watching theatre outside traditional venues. The more unusual the location, the better the box office. Sometimes it feels as if the theatre is incidental to getting inside a space that is rarely open to the public.With only 12 audience members per performance, Insane Root are definitely not hitting the big time at the box office. This Orpheus and Eurydice may be wafer thin and as insubstantial as a dream but its location is never just a gimmick. The story and the setting always support each other. When you emerge blinking into the light, you have left a little of yourself behind.