The Secret Life of Brothers and Sisters 8pm, Channel 4Concluding part of a spinoff from the show where kids are filmed forming character traits and power relationships that will last for life. Children from previous series are given a range of practical tasks designed to show specifically how younger siblings deal with elder ones’ dominant position. The subtle ways in which brothers and sisters support, influence and compete with each other is an endlessly fascinating subject for study. Jack SealeThe Joy of Data 9pm, BBC4First BBC4 shook you with The Joy of Stats. Then it awed you with The Joy of Logic. Now, that most excellent mathematician Dr Hannah Fry is here to get you lovely geeks all steamed up again with this high-tech data caper. The show explores, among other things, the incredible network map of Wikipedia and the unlikely connection between marmalade and One Direction. Will also appeal to those with nostalgic memories of Johnny Ball’s Think of a Number. Ali CatterallSaving Lives at Sea 9pm, BBC1This look at the work of brave RNLI staff is a reminder of how quickly the sea can take lives. This week, there’s a false alarm when a swimmer is found safe and well after her friend puts an emergency call out. Meanwhile, at the busiest station on the Thames, the team rescue a pair of naked, blubbering messes who have had an adventure on LSD. Not every story has a happy ending in this documentary, though, as the staff at Beachy Head know only too well. Hannah VerdierVersailles 9pm, BBC2“The enemy is closer than you think.” This is the message that appears to Louis in a fever dream. Evidence of trouble ahead? Of course. With the monarch laid low and those in his “circle of trust” preparing for the possibility of a regency, Louis’s enemies move against him, a development that puts Philippe in a bit of a pickle. This is an episode so tightly plotted that it just about gets away with a dance sequence seemingly inspired by music videos of the 1980s. Jonthan WrightBoy Meets Girl 10pm, BBC2The gentle sitcom about an age-gap romance between Leo and transgender fiance Judy trundles on. This week, Judy’s friend Charlie finds himself without a place to stay, so Pam lets him in – a decision she soon comes to regret. Elsewhere, Peggy begins planning a Christmas-themed wedding for the couple and Anji has some surprising news for James. Good-natured stuff, but a sitcom this groundbreaking in terms of theme could be a little less predictable in content. Hannah J DaviesThe Rebel 10pm, GoldUntimely new comedy courting the grey vote with the dubious premise of: “Here, when you’re old, you’re nobody.” Simon Callow plays permanently furious baby-boomer Henry who, when not being menaced by faceless youths on skateboards, rails against any suggestion that he should act his age. The targets are soft (political correctness, fancy coffee shops) and the lead character isn’t sympathetic enough to gain real traction. A Victor Meldrew for the post-Brexit era? No, thanks. Phil HarrisonOutrageous Acts of Science8pm, DiscoveryIn the first of a new series, we meet more stars of the internet performing viral feats, which are then scrutinised by scientific folk. There’s Pat “Big Daddy” Laughlin, who can perform a mid-air bike-to-bike transfer on his BMX (or an “inelastic collision”). He is followed by Sean Evans from US culture mag Complex, who attempts to emulate Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson’s daily 5,165-calorie diet. It soon turns ugly. And vomit-y. Ben ArnoldFILMSex, Lies and Videotape (Steven Soderbergh, 1989) 1.10am, Film4Soderbergh’s witty, Palme D’Or-winning sex comedy opens with an everyday affair. Andie McDowell hasn’t had sex for six months, mainly because – unknown to her – lawyer-hubby Peter Gallagher has been shagging her sister. Into this trio’s lives comes Gallagher’s old college buddy James Spader: reticent, impotent and given to videotaping creepily intimate interviews with women. Soon his camcorder has all four characters squirming in the face of uncomfortable truths.SPORTCycling: Tour de France The Tour is back after a day’s rest but is still in Switzerland as the riders cover the 184.5km from Berne to Finhaut-Emosson. 1.15pm, Eurosport 1; 2pm, ITV4Athletics: Junior Championships World finals from Poland. 4.45pm, Eurosport 2T20 Blast Cricket: Yorkshire Vikings v Durham Jets From Headingley, it’s the clash of the unnervingly titled titans. 6pm, Sky Sports 2