1984: George Orwell      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   George Orwell’s Nineteen eighty-four Photograph: Penguin BooksWhich sci-fi author has come closest to predicting the future? As we know, Orwell’s 1949 classic is an eerily prescient depiction of grey totalitarianism and outlawed shagging. But what did he actually get right? The state keeping the masses placated with booze and mindless entertainment? Check. Surveillance? Check. “Newspeak”? Well, “yogalates” is now apparently a thing, so totes check. Not bad Georgey. Although he didn’t predict Happn. And Room 101 is in fact a mildly diverting light-entertainment show with Frank Skinner! Ha! Orwell you idiot!Accuracy: 3 out of 51992: The Who      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pete Townshend of The Who Photograph: Michael Ochs Archives/Getty ImagesIn 1972 Pete Townshend wrote Relay, a sci-fi ditty about a future with people wrapped in “experience suits” all linked to some kind of rudimentary internet run by a dictator called Jumbo. Sounds far-fetched. And also possibly very rubbish. But people in their homes are waggling their arms about like wazzocks in virtual reality right now, the internet has been internetting for ages, and while there’s no Jumbo in charge of anything, there is one jumbo BoJo in a perilously high position of office. Which means Townshend is deffo a wizard.Accuracy: 4 out of 52001: A Space Odyssey      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   2001: A Space Odyssey Photograph: RONALD GRANTYou might have noticed Kubrick’s vision of humans whizzing among the stars in 2001 didn’t really pan out. The closest we got was the ISS – which looks like it was made out of Meccano by a total moron – and Buck Rogers by Feeder. Nevertheless, videocalling, in-flight tellies, voice recognition and sentient talking computers like HAL are all now actual things. Only they’re called Siri and are used exclusively by kids trying to trick them into saying “bums”.Accuracy: 3 out of 52010: The Simpsons      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Simpsons Photograph: Allstar/20 CENTURY FOX/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarBack to the Future Day: what Part II got right and wrong about 2015 – an A-Z Lisa’s Wedding in 2010, as predicted in the 1995 Simpsons episode of the same name, eerily got some future stuff spot on. The Rolling Stones are on their “Steel Wheelchair Tour” (in all but name); there are gadgets startlingly similar to iWatches and iPads (other brands of profligate middle-class frippery are available), and Mayor Quimby basically drives a Prius. What it could never predict, though, was that in 2016 The Simpsons is still being made and no one really understands why.Accuracy: 4 out of 52015: Back To The Future      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Back To The Future 2 Photograph: Allstar Picture LibrarySelf-lacing trainers are getting a release later this year, meaning soon the only things standing in the way of you luxuriating in knotless Valhalla will be a) the price, and b) the desire to ever have sex again. VR, tablets, holograms, videocalling and fingerprint recognition all existed by 2015 – kudos, bee-tee-tee-eff – while flying cars still remain the domain of amply bearded Darwin award-winning garden-shed tinkerers. And, no, hoverboards don’t exist, despite the ambitious branding of those two-wheeled things ridden in city centres by adults whose parents are deeply, truly ashamed of them.Accuracy rating: 4 out of 5