 Which books will young readers more of an idea of how the UK is connected to Europe? The quickest and simplest way of getting a picture of life in Europe is to look at some of the books about holidays in European capitals. Although more of a tourist introduction than a real life guide, picture books such as the delightful Olivia Goes to Venice by Ian Falconer give an instant introduction to the most famous features of a city. Here Olivia, the ebullient star of many titles, goes on holiday to Venice and proves herself to be an excellent guide to the iconic sites of the city. And to its almost-equally famous ice-creams! Kay Thompson’s Eloise in Paris, illustrated by Hilary Knight, is similarly attractive (although now somewhat dated) as it captures Eloise’s delight at everything Parisian when she visits from her home in New York. But here are also titles which give a deeper impression of life in a different city. Ludwig Bemelmans’s Madeline, the story of a feisty little girl growing up under the care of the nuns in a big house in Paris, is also set a couple of generations ago but in its glorious illustrations it equally gives an impression of the special things about Paris. For older readers and for a different glimpse of Paris, Katherine Rundell’s brilliant Rooftoppers brings Victorian Paris to life in a fantasy adventure much of which is played out on the roof tops of the handsome Parisian buildings. Heroine Sophie is entranced by Paris and its very obvious differences to her home in Oxford. Paris is also the setting of The Invention of Hugo Cabret, Brian Selznick’s inventive fantasy told as much through pictures as words. From it, readers will at the very least have a very clear idea of Paris railway station. For a look at another European capital readers can follow Augustus and Hazel to Amsterdam in John Green’s best-selling The Fault in Our Stars. The two young American cancer patients, travel to Amsterdam to meet the author of their favourite book and to visit Anne Frank’s house. Although only a short episode in the book the characters delight in the city and their sense of how different it is to their home gives a vivid snapshot of life in Amsterdam. Away from the cities with their iconic buildings and well-documented life style, stories set in European countryside are also illuminating. Philip Pullman’s Clockwork, a dark story about an apprentice clockmaker and the power of story telling, is rich in the atmosphere created by the snowy landscape of the cold long and dark winter’s evening on which the story is set. Although not specific in time or place, Pullman evokes the dark and dangerous forests of Eastern Europe of a century or so ago. Michael Morpurgo’s Anya is a moving second world war story about saving children being smuggled out of Italy and into Spain to be kept safe from the Nazis. Morpurgo captures the tension of the time and the part Jo, a young boy from a local village, plays in keeping the children safe. He also paints a vivid picture of the local scenery and everyday life at that time. Why you should record the stories of your parents or grandparents Last but not least GR Gemin’s Sweet Pizza gets to the heart of how the UK and Europe are connected. Joe’s family is part Italian and part Welsh and when the family cafe is under threat Joe realises how much it and his family history matters to him. When he sets about trying to save it he also discovers that the other families in the town are similarly part of different cultures and countries as well as becoming Welsh.What are your favourite books in translation? Of course another great idea is to read European books in translation. From Asterix to Tintin, we’ve got some fabulous recommendations from authors and readers here. And for those studying MFL, check out these ideas for first books to read in French, German or Spanish. If you have books to recommend which will help children understand Europe better then tell us on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks or by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com so we can add to this blog. You can also use the same email address to ASK the Book Doctor a books related question.Jade Hill (@bubbly_books)@GdnChildrensBks @jeccleshare For YA I'd add @lainitaylor's Daughter of Smoke and Bone triology & @naturallysteph's Anna and the French KissJune 6, 2016Mostly Books (@MostlyReading)@GuardianBooks @GdnChildrensBks We absolutely recommend 'Rooftoppers' and 'Sweet Pizza'! Also try 'Madame Pamplemousse' by Rupert KingfisherJune 6, 2016Jade Hill (@bubbly_books)@GdnChildrensBks @jeccleshare As a child, The Star of Kazan by Eva Ibbotson made me want to go to Vienna so badly <3June 6, 2016