The open secret of the OJ Simpson trial was that in the end, Simpson himself, his motives and his psyche, were not really that “interesting”. “Interesting” is often a weasel word, used to avoid the harder, deeper questions of the case. But here it reveals something.One might believe Simpson’s self-conception, and think him an innocent man badly wronged. One might alternatively believe that he murdered Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman in an almost logical endgame of a long history of spousal abuse. But in either case, there is no real psychological puzzle to be solved. The enigma, as it was, was in the rest of the circus. Why couldn’t the prosecution get a conviction? Did Simpson’s lawyers really believe anything they were saying?On television, American Crime Story: The People vs OJ Simpson is in mid-delivery of a fictionalized version of the story. Already, to my mind, it’s been a bit too interested in Simpson, a bit too determined to portray the defense lawyers – not to mention the curious figure of a pre-Kardashian Robert Kardashian – in the noble way they saw themselves. As a network-television dramatic choice this makes sense; the audience needs someone or something to root for. But in terms of its fidelity to the real drama of the case, a drama which anyone who was conscious at the time must remember, it is a harder sell. The fact was, none of what was happening seemed very noble at the time.OJ Simpson and the unshakable demons that continue to haunt America Still, I must thank the show for leading me back to Jeffrey Toobin’s entertaining if somewhat nihilistic book, The Run of His Life: The People v OJ Simpson, originally published in 1996. The book is enjoying a kind of second run in sales, and for once, in a true-crime pop-culture phenomenon, it actually deserves the renewed look.It says something about the nature of the case that Toobin was writing not just as an observer of the trial but as a major influence on its events. (A faint simulacrum of him appeared on the latest episode of the television show.) He had been assigned to write on the case by the then editor of the New Yorker, Tina Brown. New Yorker nerds will know that she was then more or less at the start of her ultimately disastrous tenure at the magazine. But her assignment here turned out to be an inspired choice.Toobin was not very well known as a reporter or legal commentator in 1994. He describes Simpson’s lead defense lawyer, Robert Shapiro, as initially confusing him with a reporter for New York magazine. But he had the lawyer’s knack for triage and sifting documents. As such, Toobin was among the first to discover that Mark Fuhrman, the LAPD officer who was one of the first on the scene, was an unrepentant racist. Actually, as we would later learn and the book traces in detail, Fuhrman was an unrepentant racist on a scale rarely seen in public in post-civil-rights America. He tossed around the N-word with alacrity, though rhetorically he was most fond of the phrase “these people” and its derivatives. And he was so racist – and, as a kind of free-gift-with-purchase, sexist – that he had happily delineated these views not just in a lawsuit, but in taped interviews to an aspiring screenwriter named Laura Hart McKinny.But the tapes with the screenwriter would come later. It was Toobin who broke the story of Fuhrman’s philosophy in the New Yorker, and subsequently made himself a kind of persona non grata with Shapiro, who was evidently most angry that his Richard Avedon portrait had appeared with the article. (He had been hoping for some more heroic position, one supposes.) The article made Fuhrman a much greater star of the case than the defendant. The prosecution never quite knew what to do with this giant neon arrow pointing back at the history of frank warfare on African Americans by the LAPD.Still, Toobin’s article, and subsequently his book, was not the work of an idealist looking to trip the LAPD up. He was not interested, as some writers would be, in drumming out of this a larger comment on What It All Meant For America. Instead he simply evaluated what he called this beginning of a “judo defense”, meaning a defense in which the strength of the prosecution’s case is turned against it as a weapon. Ultimately, as he details in the book, he came to believe that the lawyers were cynically drawing a kind of “obscene parody of an authentic civil rights struggle”. He also believed that the prosecutors were “drunk on virtue”, which made them arrogant and inept. The whole thing, in his telling, is a kind of bumbling into catastrophe. Noble intentions are sadly absent.Sometimes it seems Toobin is being a little insensitive. His description of Brown Simpson is something that would earn him tomatoes from a host of feminist thinkpiece writers today. He reports witheringly that she described herself, in her divorce, as having few professional aspirations and viewing herself as a “party animal”. Though this doesn’t quite leap over the edge into victim-blaming, the distinct incuriosity about her as anything other than she described herself is a little jarring. Then again, like me, Toobin does not find OJ himself all that interesting either.Perhaps it takes a lawyer to find lawyers more interesting than the people at the heart of a case. Still, as a former one myself, I must tell you that Toobin’s inability to buy any of the grand claims about justice that they made to the press still rings out as compellingly unique some 20 years later. The public, of course, needs little persuading that lawyers are a craven breed. But there is something more going on when a lawyer himself is picking apart the motives of the brethren. The corruption of their morals becomes not just a problem of virtues but a problem of psychology. The fact is that “thinking like a lawyer” – what law school purports to teach its students – can be disfiguring. Being able to see both sides makes you the kind of person who constantly builds, then tears down, your own worldview. The refuge into grand rhetoric about justice and fairness is often a kind of palliative drug, dealt to the self, to shore oneself up against self-loathing.In Toobin’s portrait of Shapiro particularly, there is a kind of obvious wheeling and dealing with the self going on. A certain amount of the bluster and petulance is obviously a play at self-justification, an attempt to carve out an eye in the storm. Toobin describes the man in the court cafeteria at the end of the case as a defeated schoolboy who no longer is welcome at the table his clique – the other defense lawyers – have claimed. Instead he sits down for the last lunch before the verdict with Toobin and another reporter. Bitterly, he complains of Johnnie Cochran’s summation: “It was nothing but race, race, race. And why am I not reading that in the paper? All I hear is how great his summation was. Why do I keep reading this?”It is a testament to some skill of Toobin’s that this anecdote aligns Shapiro’s take on the case with Toobin’s own without quite feeling actually sorry for Shapiro. Which is the way, perhaps, it should be. Shapiro later wrote his own book on the case, after all, something Toobin reports he’d been planning all along. And like all the other OJ books, it was an instant bestseller.The Run of His Life is published in the UK by Arrow.