What’s the name of this show? FlakedWhen does it premiere? All eight episodes start streaming on Netflix on FridayWhat’s this show about? It’s about driving television critics to the brink of insanity.That’s a weird subject. It’s really about two lifelong best friends, Chip (Will Arnett who is also a co-writer and co-creator with Mark Chappell) and Dennis (David Sullivan) who are both in Alcoholics Anonymous and live together in Dennis’s mom’s house in Venice, California. That doesn’t sound like it would be a threat to a viewer’s mental health. The problem is, Flaked is yet another television show about intentionally insufferable, middle-aged man-boys who think they are cute when they are really just so smug you want to hit them with a bag of kale chips. Chip is a furniture maker and Dennis is a sommelier, two jobs that only exist in shows like this. Needless to say, these two guys live rent-free because neither of them does any work. Chip owns a store that never has anyone in it, either working or shopping. He only keeps the lights on because his ex-father-in-law owns it and he doesn’t charge him rent. All in all, it’s a middle-aged fantasy created by middle-aged entertainment executives who are foisting their insecurities on a public who would surely rather watch anything else.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest If the characters don’t work, what do they do? They go to meetings, which is commendable, but otherwise they both chase after London (Ruth Kearney), a manic pixie dream girl with her medicinal marijuana card who is 10 years too young and three degrees too hot for losers like these two. Dennis met her first and sort of called “dibs” on her (as if it’s possible to do such a thing to a human being) and gets mad when Chip not only goes for her but also actively dissembles against Dennis having a shot with her. Are the female characters interesting? This thing does not pass the Bechdel test by a long shot. London and Kara (Lina Esco), another one of Chip’s lovers who he snatched out from under Dennis, are barely developed and only serve as reflections of the men’s desires. Is it funny? The jokes fall flatter than an Iowa cornfield. “I had to take the dogs to the VD clinic,” Dennis says. “I didn’t think dogs could get VD,” Chip responds wryly. “No, the Venice Dog clinic!” Dennis howls. It’s something that even the writers of Fuller House would have rejected. Doesn’t Netflix usually make better shows? They do, but with the release of Love a few weeks back they seem to be adding to the “awful people living in LA” genre which is becoming all too common. I would hope that with the astonishing amount of money they’re pumping into original programs they would be a bit more discerning and create a few things that are a bitless formulaic. Is there anything good about this show? There are a handful of interesting cameos, like Heather Graham as Chip’s ex, Kirstie Alley as Dennis’s mom, and Christopher Mintz-Plasse as a techie newcomer to the AA scene. That is honestly the only saving grace. Is there anything else bad about it that you would like to mention? Did I forget the ongoing thread about the dangers of gentrification and the first wave of gentrifiers who are being pushed out moaning about progress? What about how Chip thinks he’s morally superior because he doesn’t have a cellphone? I must have brought up the clunky dialogue filled with recovery platitudes? Is “you need to sort out the past” something they talk about in meetings because someone says something along those lines at least twice an episode to make sure we get – we really, really get – what this show is all about? Should I watch this show? Now you’re the one that’s driving me insane. 