In a shadowy corner of the restaurant, Aisling Loftus and I are discussing the strange business of interviews. Loftus isn’t a fan. “As soon as you start talking about acting, you sound like a wanker,” she sighs. “Also, there’s this presumption that if you’re an actor, you like the heightened visibility.”She rubs her forehead worriedly. “I’m not sure I do.”War and Peace: the usual complaints, unabridged Until now, she was best known to most of us as the face of Agnes Leclair (née Towler) in ITV’s frills-and-tills serial Mr Selfridge. Now, with the BBC’s lavish version of Tolstoy’s War and Peace on our screens, visibility is unavoidable.Loftus plays Sonya Rostova, alongside Lily James as Natasha and Gillian Anderson’s socialite Annette; Harvey Weinstein is co-producer. The programme has already made waves for its bodice-ripping sex – lovingly dwelt on in the trailer – and for introducing an incest subplot based on a passing reference in the novel (not wholly surprising, with Andrew Davies behind the adaptation).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Loftus as Sonya in War and Peace. Photograph: Mitch Jenkins/BBC/Mitch Jenkins“You could roll your eyes or say – ach, it’s fun.” Loftus shrugs. “He captures the essence of the book really well. And it suits TV. Long-form storytelling is so much more satisfying. If I’m watching a film and it meanders, that pisses me off. With TV, you really get to know people.”Loftus, now 25, is not altogether dissimilar from her alter ego in Mr Selfridge: the accent is different – native Nottingham rather than Agnes’s chirrupy cockney – but behind the earnest and somewhat hesitant exterior, you can sense the toughness.Acting – or anything approaching it – wasn’t in her background; her mother is a teacher and Nottingham’s Television Workshop provided her first break. Did she always want to do it? “No way. If you say you want to be an actor when you’re 15 or whatever, that’s just precocious, isn’t it?”Wait – didn’t she get her first gig aged nine? “Yeah, OK. A little part in Peak Practice.” She arches an eyebrow. “The golden age of British telly.”She considered drama school, but decided against it after landing the lead in Dominic Savage’s BBC2 two-parter Dive while on study leave for her A-levels: there didn’t seem much point. Loftus won plaudits for her thoughtful portrayal of a schoolgirl swimming champ who is selected for the Olympics, only to discover she is pregnant. That same summer, 2010, she was on stage at the Royal Court in Anya Reiss’s Spur of the Moment, before playing the pocket-sized, catapult-brandishing Arrietty in The Borrowers, also for the BBC.Why War and Peace stands the test of time Sonya has been a tougher prospect. The orphaned, penniless ward of the gilded Rostova family, she falls desperately in love with Natasha’s brother Nikolai (played by Jack Lowden). To his mother’s disgust, Nikolai initially reciprocates before rejecting her for someone more socially appropriate and inviting Sonya to be the governess. Where Tolstoy often seems half in love with his vivacious, quixotic heroine Natasha, with Sonya his gaze is clearer, and bleaker. “Sonya really believes that if she’s self-sacrificing, she will be rewarded,” Loftus reflects. “She’ll have this Technicolor romance. We expect that, too, but it isn’t for her. Tolstoy is quite cruel about women sometimes, but he makes an attempt to understand them. At the beginning I think she’s described as a little kitten; at the end she’s a sterile flower.”So she’s read the book? She gives me an expression that reads: durrr! “Of course! Some of the battle scenes are a bit arduous, but I got there. If you’re of a box-set mindset, then it’s the perfect novel, isn’t it?”Her own childhood wasn’t exactly gilded; I wonder what she makes of the argument that actors from working-class backgrounds are being crowded out by rivals with posh vowels – and posher educations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nikolai Rostov (Jack Lowden) moves in on Sonya (Aisling Loftus) . Photograph: Laurie Sparham/BBC/Laurie Sparham“I think if you come from privilege you have more confidence. If you don’t, you’d probably be quicker to cut your losses.” She thinks for a few moments. “But then there are other things, aren’t there? My boyfriend [Game of Thrones actor Jacob Anderson] is mixed race, and people keep telling him to be happy because ‘ethnics’ are having a moment. You can’t believe people actually say that! And with female directors, there are still so few. The ones I’ve worked with are great – but they have to be, just to have got there.”After six months dashing between location shoots in Russia and Lithuania for War and Peace, then an autumn in Northern Ireland filming Property of the State, a feature based on the real-life story of an Irish woman trying to defend a brother on trial for murder, Loftus has been doing a fair bit of hustling herself. She’s recently back from LA, doing the rounds of casting directors, and has been burrowing her way into classic Hollywood as research (this morning’s homework: Scorsese’s neglected masterpiece Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore).Soon we’ll get to watch her in a costume drama of a different stripe: the kickass movie of Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, alongside Matt Smith and Lily James. The eyebrow goes up again. “No regrets.”And after that – who knows? “There’s a very real possibility I won’t ever work again,” she says, suddenly hesitant again. “I’m not owed it.” • War and Peace is on BBC1 on Sundays at 9pm