The “yellowface” dispute that blew up just before Christmas over the Print Room’s all-white casting of Howard Barker’s In the Depths of Dead Love, a play set in ancient China, is a reminder of how far theatre has come in terms of diversity – and the significant distance it still has to go. As the Print Room’s clumsy, tying-itself-in-knots response points out, Barker’s play was broadcast on Radio 3 in 2013 with an all-white cast featuring Richard E Grant and Francesca Annis. As far as I can see, it passed without protest even though that was just a year after the furore that met the under-representation of east Asian actors in the RSC’s production of The Orphan of Zhao.That dispute was significant in raising awareness about the lack of roles available to east Asian actors, but clearly the message still hasn’t reached all British theatres. In 2017 every production on our stages should draw from the widest possible pool of talent and reflect the rich diversity of that talent. Four white actors is no reflection of that at all. Diversity in theatre: why is disability being left out? Undoubtedly, attitudes to diversity have shifted since I wrote, almost exactly two years ago, that diversity is key to creativity. Organisations such as Act for Change and Tonic Theatre have played a major role in forcing the arts to start to think about how they operate and how they might bring about real diversity within their workforces and on stage, rather than paying lip service to the idea or doing nothing at all. Nevertheless, you can still see what looks like thoughtlessness and unconscious racism behind casting decisions, sometimes defended through talk of artistic freedom.If you want signs of progress, then I suppose a few years ago the Print Room’s casting would probably have passed without comment, just as Trevor Nunn’s all-white casting of The War of the Roses in 2015 would likely have gone unnoticed. It’s good that is increasingly less likely to happen. Diverse casting can challenge some audiences – I heard recently of a regional theatre whose casting of a black Cinderella one year led to emails and letters of protest. In that instance, it made the artistic director even more aware of the need to cast diversely. Perhaps it’s not surprising that audiences react in such a way when so much TV, film and theatre is still stuck in the past and casting directors still choose from the same small pool of actors, denying others opportunities and access. The arts are waking up to the need for greater diversity in terms of race, disability, gender and socio-economic background. But as long as the top-down structures at management and board level continue to favour those who are white, male and from social elites, these organisations will find themselves ill-equipped to bring about radical change.