To the great literary movements of the 21st century so far – transrealism and books with the word “girl” in the title – we can add another: books by, and about, the Clintons. Book deals will be impossible to get unless your name is Hillary or Bill Clinton; proposals will be rejected unless they feature the former president or presidential candidate. Within a year, you will not be able to go into a bookshop without being faced with rows of book jackets featuring a stylised bob-and-pantsuit line drawing or nicely lit shots of one of the Clintons looking weary but unbroken.First, due in September, Hillary’s book will be published. It is not a memoir exactly, but a collection of essays based on inspirational quotes that have, she says, “helped me celebrate the good times, laugh at the absurd times, persevere during the hard times and deepen my appreciation of all life has to offer”.After that will come Bill’s novel, penned with bestselling crime-writing machine James Patterson. All we know so far is that it is a thriller about a sitting president, and is called The President Is Missing – surely a case of wishful thinking.Fictionalised Clintons are also taking shape. Next year, William Gibson’s sci-fi novel Agency is set partly in a present-day world in which Hillary is president. The year after, Curtis Sittenfeld’s next novel will reimagine how Hillary Rodham’s life would have unfolded had she never married Bill (Sittenfeld, of course, has a thing for first ladies, having already fictionalised Laura Bush’s life). A memoir, Hillaryland, written by one of Clinton’s advisers and speechwriters, Lissa Muscatine, is also planned.Before then, catch up with Susan Bordo’s The Destruction of Hillary Clinton, and Shattered: Inside Hillary Clinton’s Doomed Campaign, both already published. Practise your eye-rolling at last year’s “alt-right” conspiracy offerings on what a Clinton presidency would look like, including Armageddon and Crisis of Character. Work your way through the Clintons’ own offerings over the years – at least six books apiece – including Hillary’s excellent, if cautious, Living History and Bill’s Back to Work: Why We Need Smart Government for a Strong Economy (maybe just skim that one). Then have a nice lie-down and try to come up with a better word than Clinterature to describe the deluge.