Planet Earth II8pm, BBC1Where rainfall is too sporadic for forests to rise up, grasslands, covering a quarter of the Earth, sprout instead. Here, exposed animals are both at the mercy of the elements – and, as per, one another: check out the enormous buffalo weighing 900 kilos, who almost casually shrugs off five lionesses (while seemingly giving a sideways look to camera, as if to say, “You kidding me?”). Elsewhere, a weeks-old caribou calf attempts to outrun a hungry wolf. Ali CatterallStoryville: Forever Pure – Football and Racism in Jerusalem10pm, BBC4Religious extremism and football fanaticism collide in this extraordinary, if dispiriting, doc. In 2012, Beitar Jerusalem FC – a club that seems to have tolerated a bigoted faction among its following – signed two Chechen Muslims. Violence, arson, boycotts and near-ruin followed. This film tracks the club through a hellish season and offers a lesson in the ugly consequences of failing to nip racism in the bud. Phil HarrisonEscape to the Chateau 8pm, Channel 4Having made a good fist of hosting a three-day wedding at their French pile, Dick Strawbridge and Angel Adoree try to work out new ways to bring in much-needed cash. Would anglers pay to fish in their two-acre moat? How about opening woodlands to foragers? Meantime, renovations of the building continue, with finishing off a guest suite and installing a lift both on Angel’s wishlist. Just as well Dick has an engineering background. Jonathan WrightMy Mother and Other Strangers 9pm, BBC1The inhabitants of Moybeg have their horizons broadened as this period drama continues. Rose’s sister Vera arrives with her cigarettes, lipstick and fancy London ways. Popular – perhaps too popular – in the bar, Vera’s advice to the young Emma, forever bicycling to see the doctor’s son, carries with it a certain flighty wisdom. Captain Dreyfuss instantly catches her eye, but he has scheduled a schoolroom meeting with Rose. John RobinsonHumans 9pm, Channel 4Tonight, there’s tension between AI expert Athena and cocky tech billionaire Milo, who’s come up with an unethical plan. Over in synth corner, Max is starting a new community while Leo will stop at nothing to make his goals a reality. In among the many plot strands, the most interesting, as usual, lies within the Hawkins family. Mattie’s still hiding a secret while Mia has a confession that will rock the synth sympathisers to their core. Hannah VerdierThe Rise and Fall of El Chapo 9pm, HistoryProfile of Joaquín Guzmán, AKA El Chapo, very possibly the wealthiest drug dealer of all time and certainly one of the nastiest. Guzmán is the head of Mexico’s Sinaloa cartel, which he has turned into something resembling a parallel state while building a personality cult around himself. Guzmán is currently in prison, facing extradition to the US – but as the film recalls, if he does engineer an unlikely escape, it won’t be the first time. Andrew Mueller Savage Kingdom 6pm, Nat Geo WildProviding for a family demands determination, devotion and dogged ruthlessness. New mum Saba knows this only too well. Not least because she’s a leopard living in the heart of a region rammed with potential prey and rival predators. Fending for herself isn’t much of an issue – she’s as resourceful as any other hunter in the realm – but with two young cubs to feed and protect, her task is about to get a whole lot harder. Mark Gibbings-Jones Film choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bewildering, beguiling and marvellous … A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence.A Pigeon Sat on a Bench Reflecting on Existence(Roy Andersson, 2014) Sunday, 1.50am, Channel 4The Venice Golden Lion-winning conclusion to Swedish director Roy Andersson’s “Living Trilogy” is as weirdly surreal as the title suggests. A pair of depressed novelty salesmen are our guides through a bizarre series of ochre-hued tableaux illustrating the strange and unintentional hilarity of human existence, including a waitress offering a dead man’s lunch to other customers and an appearance from 17th-century king Charles XII on horseback. It’s bewildering, beguiling and marvellous. Paul HowlettSchool of Rock(Richard Linklater, 2003), 3.20pm, Channel 4Actually, that’s “School of Raaaarrrckkk!!”. Jack Black’s slacker Dewey Finn blags a temporary teaching job at a posh prep school, where he starts educating the kids about the glory of the Who, Led Zep and all, moulding them into a heavy rock outfit to enter a battle of the bands competition. A fresh and funny tale that gives Black a chance to show off his guitar solo skills. Paul HowlettGreen Lantern(Martin Campbell, 2011), 10pm, Channel 5Batman apart, DC superheroes rarely match up to their mighty Marvel counterparts, as this underpowered, somewhat inert fantasy demonstrates. Ryan Reynolds plays test pilot Hal Jordan, who happens on a green alien ring that imbues him with all sorts of abilities, making him a full Lycra-clad member of an intergalactic police force out to collar evil nerd Peter Sarsgaard. PHLife Is Beautiful(Roberto Benigni, 1997), 11.10pm, Sky ArtsCan you make a joke of the Holocaust? Benigni thinks so, and his effort met with both critical ire and three Oscars. He starts with a light romance as his Guido woos and weds the haughty Dora (Nicoletta Braschi), then slides into the horror of the camps, but leavened by Guido, who protects his son by presenting it all as a big, daft game. It’s a noble, deeply humanistic film. PHToday’s best live sportPremier League Football: Bournemouth v Liverpool 12.30pm, Sky Sports 1A challenging trip for high-flying Liverpool. Everton v Manchester United follows.Snooker: UK Championship, 1pm, BBC2The final from York.Premiership Rugby Union: Worcester Warriors v Wasps 2.30pm, BT Sport 1All the action from Sixways Stadium.