Warren Ellis is a multi-talented man – he plays violin, guitar, flute, mandolin and more. While he’s best known for his work with Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, Grinderman and the Dirty Three, he has also forged quite the side career composing haunting scores for high-profile films, including The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford, The Road, Hell or High Water and the Oscar-nominated Turkish drama Mustang. Perhaps less well known is his work on the edgy Australian thriller, Bad Girl, about a troublemaking teenager (Sara West) whose friendship with a supposedly “good” girl (Samara Weaving) goes sour, plunging her entire family into peril. With the film on general release in Australia this week, Ellis sat down with Guardian Australia to talk about Bad Girl, his cinematic work and his unique style of composition. Here are some of the edited highlights.Patti Smith croons, quips and reminisces through her final Australian appearance ‘I made the score for Bad Girl in a hotel room’Warren Ellis: I had certain rules for this one. I wanted the score to be made quickly and I wanted to make it using just a laptop only. I made it, actually, while I was on tour; I was in Australia doing a Dirty Three tour, and I had a couple of weeks to get ready. So I made the score in a hotel room while I was rehearsing and then when I was on tour I got really addicted to it, and I’d be mixing it after the shows. Got a couple of synthesisers in my hotel room. I’d mix the thing on the plane, coming back on the 23-hour flight, just using the small speaker on the computer, and my ProTools and my headphones. When I got back, I’d check it in the car to see that the bottom end was OK. And then I handed it in.It was a really different process for me, because it was a very small-budget film. I worked closely with the director [Fin Edquist]. I didn’t want to see any images until the film was complete. I was just making lots and lots of music that I thought might be appropriate, and sending them to the director, and he would be thinking about where it might go. And then they did a pass, and then they put [the score] in, and then I watched it… I wanted to actually let go of a big part of the process that’s usually controlled by a bunch of people, including myself.‘I’m a bit Frankenstein with how I work’ I wanted the score to be economical and effective. I had a bit of a reference, which was that first Mad Max film – how fabulous the score was – and The Driller Killer, where stuff is immediate and it works. It needed to have volume. That immediately got me in a different way of thinking about what could be useful, and the director was great like that too, because he was totally on board with that approach. I’ve done one other film like this before, which was Mustang, where I did the whole score in my shed at home and mixed it with someone else, but did the whole thing sitting there. Usually I have a team of people around editing it. It brought me back to a kind of primitive level, because I’m a bit Frankenstein with how I work in that respect. I just cut and throw things down and I have minimal skills using ProTools and editing. It’s very much like a razor blade and a bit of sticky tape. It’s brutal how I work, in a way.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ellis performs with the Dirty Three: ‘I have quite an eclectic range of instruments I can draw from.’ Photograph: Andy Sheppard/Redferns via Getty Images‘I had this run of very feminine films’ I had been aware that I’d done a bunch of films that were masculine-driven. When Mustang came along, it was really fantastic to have a very feminine film. That was definitely something with Bad Girl that was very attractive as well. Then after that, I was asked to do another film, called The Dancer, which I couldn’t do, which was another film about a woman who has this fabulous way of dancing. But I had this run of very feminine films. That was very appealing to me, given that I’d made a bunch of masculine films.I’d worked with Amy [Berg], who’s directed some documentaries. It’s very different working with a male or female director. [Mustang director] Deniz [Gamze Ergüven] was a new experience.... She had a different sensibility to what instruments she wanted, which I really appreciated, because I have quite an eclectic range of instruments I can draw from. She really wanted a lot of strings and a lot of violin and things like that. ‘I’m not a lyrical person’ I don’t demarcate between music that I do, whether it’s Dirty Three stuff or with the Bad Seeds or with Grinderman or film scoring. For me, it’s a musical thing. Bad//Dreems: Gutful review – cementing the long awaited revival of brash protest rock I’m not a lyrical person. I don’t write words. For me, the evolution takes place in the music and that’s the thing I’m interested in working on and developing.Since I started doing score work, and the score work with Nick [Cave], that’s definitely changed what I’ve done with bands after that. I can feel the effect. I know the last album that we did, Skeleton Tree, wouldn’t be like it was without what I’d done before, you know? And I know that Push the Sky Away and Grinderman wouldn’t be like that without the work that I’d been doing on the scores since the early 2000s. It all feeds in for me. Even though writing a song is a different thing, it’s also part of the same journey. • Bad Girl opens in select cinemas around Australia on 27 April