Inside No 9: The Devil of Christmas review – macabre merriment all round Like all the most exciting TV shows of the moment, Inside No 9 is a comedy that doesn’t try very hard to be funny. Instead, Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith’s series – filed under the genre seemingly for admin purposes (the BBC don’t have an irreverently spooky anthology department) – is all about pushing buttons. Each episode, which tells a standalone story about pretty much anything at all, yields intrigue, amusement and – most notably – a torrent of goosebump-inducing horror.Now, after a series three taster in the form of The Devil Of Christmas, a 70s-styled mystery that handbrake-turned its way from a twee period piece to what has to be the most depraved half-hour of television ever to grace the festive schedules, the show returns to invade the nation’s living rooms with uncanny tales of cannibalism, con artist-induced slavery, karaoke hell and a lost shoe.There will also, of course, be twists. Over the past three years, Inside No 9 has become famous for pulling the rug from beneath its viewers’ feet, two, three or even four times per episode; not that its creators are particularly enamoured with their new role as discombobulators-in-chief. “It would be a terrible thing if people were only watching it for the last 30 seconds,” says Shearsmith slightly defensively when I bring up the show’s masterly 180-degree turns. “Because it’s a 29-minute programme. But I think people do like to feel their breath taken away at the end. It’s a great feeling if it’s got you.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Intrigue, unease and emotional intensity: have you been watching Inside No 9? It’s fair to say that over the past two decades Pemberton and Shearsmith have mastered the art of surprise. The League Of Gentlemen, the sketch group they founded in the mid-90s alongside Mark Gatiss and Jeremy Dyson, saw them fuse comedy and horror in a way that was as startling and idiosyncratic as it was gross-out and grim. Now that Gatiss has decamped to heritage drama (Sherlock, Doctor Who) and Dyson diversified into West End theatre, it’s been left to Pemberton and Shearsmith to hold the comedy-horror fort. Luckily, the line-blurring they perfected in the League is still something that animates them. “A laugh is the same as a scream. It’s an outpouring of something,” says Pemberton, explaining how the two styles interact, while Shearsmith reveals why their genre-blending formula is something they’re still drawn to.“It’s all the more shocking when [horror] is hidden in a comedy,” he says. “People are sitting down to watch it in the same slot that they’d watch Open All Hours or Mrs Brown’s Boys, and they’re not geared up the way that they might be at 9 o’clock for a drama. So I think the punch is even more powerful.”Yet while grisly crime procedurals clog up the schedules, the pair are ploughing a lonely furrow when it comes to putting actual horror on TV. “It’s funny isn’t it, because horror’s huge and always sells; horror films are always very popular no matter how rubbish they are. And there’s not been a Hammer House Of Horror for years and years on telly,” says Shearsmith. “This is our version of that, like a Twilight Zone or a Tales From The Crypt.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Philip Glenister, Reece Shearsmith, Jason Watkins and Steve Pemberton in Inside No 9. Photograph: Sophie Mutevelian/BBCThe series resurrects those anthology series of the 1970s and 80s in another way, too. If the present golden age of television is characterised by lavish dramas that unfold at a leisurely pace, relying on viewers who like getting over-invested in complex characters and contributing to Reddit conspiracy theories about ambiguous and convoluted plotlines, Inside No 9 – with its single locations, tight time frames and lack of snaking narrative arcs – is definitely stuck in the past.“Audiences now are very savvy, television is incredibly sophisticated and there’s something that’s appealing to us about going back to an earlier age of simple staging,” says Pemberton. “In The Devil Of Christmas’s case, literally going back in time to recreate 70s television, which was metaphorically what we’d been doing with Inside No 9.”What stops it feeling retro is that the series harks back to a period of relentless innovation. In a show of impressive invention, by the end of this new run, Inside No 9 will have inhabited the form of a caper, murder mystery, gothic horror and a silent comedy. There will have been period pieces, musicals and an episode viewed entirely through the prism of CCTV. In the fourth series, which they’ve already written, there’s an episode conducted wholly in iambic pentameter, as well as another in reverse chronology. The show feels like a love letter to TV and all its possibilities. “It is a celebration of what they used to do all the time with Dennis Potter and Play For Todays, they did experiment with different storytelling techniques,” says Shearsmith. “It feels like going home to us.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith as Tubbs and Edward in The League Of Gentlemen. Photograph: BBCHow we made The League of Gentlemen And despite eschewing popular trends, Inside No 9 has helped TV reach new heights. In 2015, the show aired an episode called The 12 Days Of Christine, a distorted montage of scenes from a woman’s life, which only made hair-raising sense once the twist began to dawn. Starring Sheridan Smith as the eponymous Christine, it has to be among the most spectacular and memorable half-hours of TV in recent years; Pemberton and Shearsmith remain bowled over by the reaction it prompted, mentioning it numerous times. But it’s no anomaly: in fact, it feels like the requirement to start afresh each time, plus the need to both hook in viewers with no backstory and wrap everything up in 30 minutes, results in a more impressive show than its high-on-budget, low-on-efficiency competition.That’s not to say Inside No 9 doesn’t facilitate a fair degree of self-indulgence. Not only do the pair get to recreate the horror anthology TV series that inspired them, but the episodes are also packed full of other film, theatre and television references. “We’re all just putting back in the things that we liked,” says Shearsmith. “Mark [Gatiss] is in the same world with his Sherlock, it’s a dream come true that he’s able to mine the things that he’s been a fan of for years. We’re the same with these, we’re cherry-picking all our obsessions and teaching some people who don’t know about Hitchcock and things new tropes and new worlds.”Yet the extent of the pair’s submersion in pop culture means the show can be more frightening than they realise. “I’m sometimes surprised at how squeamish people are,” says Shearsmith. “We’re slightly desensitised to the creepy person in the corner or whatever it might be. Sometimes you think that’s a bit obvious, and [Steve] says, ‘No one will know it; only you’ll know it because you’ve seen that Japanese film.’ And you’ll go, ‘I’m not like everybody.’” Judging by the thrills of Inside No 9, we should be grateful that they’re not.Inside No 9 is on Tuesday 21 February, 10pm, BBC2