Duncan White summarised a critic’s dilemma in his Daily Telegraph review of The Schooldays of Jesus by JM Coetzee. “When you try to describe Coetzee’s novels – bleak, unsparing, experimental – they sound unappetising,” he wrote, and in many of the reviews, his latest really does. For White, “Coetzee pulls it off”, but others were not so sure. The novel, billed as an “allegorical tale”, tells the story of strange child David and his makeshift family in a sort-of exile, with dance classes. “The novel devolves into a long, tangled debate – rather fascinating – as to whether art, science, or mathematics is the best way to understand the universe,” wrote John Sutherland in The Times, explaining that this novel is difficult to understand without having first read its predecessor, The Childhood of Jesus – or even having read it. The Evening Standard’s David Sexton was won over, just about: “Frustrating, yes, but not just that. There were moments when I found it almost too affecting to read without pausing to recover myself.” But the Mail’s Stephanie Cross remained unconvinced: “It’s a combination that can be surprisingly involving, but, as richly suggestive as this wilfully opaque fable often is, by the end perplexity wins out.”Reviewers felt in safer hands with Falling Awake, Alice Oswald’s new poetry collection. Jeremy Noel-Tod in the Sunday Times compared her to Ted Hughes, Kate Kellaway in the Observer found “echoes of TS Eliot” and “a less fey Emily Dickinson”, and Charlotte Runcie in the Daily Telegraph felt that the poet laureateship should be awarded next to “this gardener-classicist who is bringing the British landscape to life in poetry again, making music out of death, invoking Greco-Roman ghosts and summoning rivers out of limestone”. In the Literary Review, Yasmine Seale felt that readers of Oswald’s previous books, Dart and Memorial, “may miss the majestic coherence of their book-length poems, but … the pieces included here are held together by Oswald’s luminous, almost alien powers of observation.”The Cultural Revolution: A People’s History 1962-1976 by Frank Dikötter – the final part of a trilogy – also found near-universal acclaim. In the Literary Review, Graham Hutchings called the trilogy “a major contribution to scholarship on modern China ... that is unequalled, certainly in the English language. Much of this has to do with his use of official archives in China, to which access is difficult and, given current trends in the country, likely to become more so.” The Observer’s Nick Fraser wrote: “The Mao message is ultimately a simple and terrifying one, defined by the pervasiveness of lies and power. It would seem, sadly, that humans are easily swept along by things they don’t really believe.” “The catalogue of atrocities in the first two books was relentless, unrelieved by any possibility of hope or respite,” wrote Mike Parker in Tribune. “Mao shines through Dikötter’s trilogy as a neurotic, paranoid sociopath ... one of history’s true monsters.” In the Sunday Times, the historian Niall Ferguson addressed the contemporary context. “The real cultural revolution, in short, is that the [current] leader of the Chinese communist party needs to grapple with pretty much the same problems as his western counterparts. And my bet is that Xi [Jinping] understands better than most western China-watchers that the worst possible remedy would be to resort to ‘Maostalgia’ – and risk rousing the ‘monsters and demons’ of 50 years ago.”