Voted the best group at the BBC Radio 2 Folk awards for the past two years, the Young’uns are no strangers to the stage. They are, however, complete newcomers to the art of staging. On the folk circuit, where the Teesside trio rely on raucous humour and raw, unaccompanied voices to put the point across, this is scarcely a problem. But today they are in rehearsals for The Transports, a ballad opera which tells the story of the first fleet of convicts exiled to Australia in 1787.The trio have been cast as a gang of cutpurses, which prompts one member of the group, David Eagle, to suggest that they all produce a pair of shades from a big bag of swag: “Cause we’re shady characters – see?” Eagle, who has been blind since he was nine months old, has no difficulty with this piece of business, though his bandmates Michael Hughes and Sean Cooney find it awkward fitting the sun-specs over their glasses. “What’s the problem, lads?” Eagle ribs his partners. “It’s not as if you need to be sighted for this folk-singing lark.”Now in their late 20s, the Young’uns stumbled into the folk-singing lark by accident in a Stockton pub. “It was the only place that would serve us underage,” Hughes remembers. “We didn’t know it also hosted the folk club. But then this bloke got up and started singing at the top of his lungs, and everyone joined in, so we did too. Afterwards we were told it was a traditional Northumbrian sea-shanty. We thought, ‘We’ll have more of those.’” The trio became regulars at the club: “The MC would say, ‘Shall we have a song from the the young’uns?’ – that’s how we got our name.” Among their favourite pieces was a collection of ballads relating to the transportation of convicts to the new world. “We thought they were original prison songs from the 18th century,” Hughes says. “But then we discovered they had all been written in the 1970s by this bloke, Peter Bellamy.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An artist’s impression of the 18th-century transportsThe ballad-singer and visual artist Bellamy was a leading light of the folk revival in the 70s who took his own life in 1991 at the age of 47. Bellamy conceived the idea for his “ballad opera” having come across the true story of Henry Cabell and Susannah Homes, among the first fleet of convicts despatched to Australia (legend has it that Henry carried the the governor to the shore and thus was technically the first man to set foot in the new colony). Written in a furious burst of creativity over only four days, the piece was released as an elaborately packaged concept album in 1977, for which Bellamy enlisted a virtual who’s who of the folk-revival. The parts of Henry and Susannah were sung by Mike and Norma Waterson. Also among the cast were Martin Carthy, Nic Jones and June Tabor; while Bellamy himself took the “continuity announcer’s” role of the street ballad singer.  Widely regarded as Bellamy’s masterpiece, the influence of ​The Transports has been profound Widely regarded as Bellamy’s masterpiece, the influence of The Transports on subsequent generations of traditional musicians has been profound, yet its fame has generally not spread beyond backroom singarounds. “Peter ruefully remarked that he never did succeed in selling the film rights,” Hughes explains. “I think he was disappointed that the work didn’t become more widely known.” Having taken part in a revival at the Sidmouth festival five years ago, Hughes conceived the idea of a touring production to mark the 40th anniversary of its release, drawing on an A-list from the contemporary folk scene. In addition to the Young’uns the cast includes singer-songwriter Nancy Kerr, former-Bellowhead cellist Rachael McShane, members of the band Faustus and hotly tipped young singer-guitarist Greg Russell. Also on board is the folklorist Matthew Crampton, author of the book Human Cargo: Stories and Songs of Emigration, Slavery and Transportation, who has developed a new narration incorporating contemporary stories of asylum-seekers taken from each town on the tour. “The history of the world has been shaped by the crossing of oceans by desperate people,” Hughes says. “We didn’t feel we could present an evening of songs about transportation without at least acknowledging some of the effects of mass migration today.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greg Russell, David Eagle, Michael Hughes and Matthew Crampton in rehearsals for The TransportsIn addition, the arrangements have been overhauled by the show’s musical director, former Bellowhead oboist Paul Sartin. “Peter Bellamy wanted the piece to sound like the village bands of the 18th century,” he explains. “He enlisted members of the early-music movement to bring their crumhorns, serpents and viols – there was a much greater overlap between the period-instrument and folk worlds back then.” Nonetheless, Bellamy worried that a classically trained violinist would sound too stiff and the late, legendary Fairport Convention fiddler Dave Swarbrick was drafted in at the eleventh hour to provide spontaneous accompaniment on his recording. The album, correspondingly, has a whimsical, rather archaic feel. The sound of the new revival promises to be leaner and more vigorous. “We’ve tried to unlearn the original arrangements and strip everything back to Bellamy’s extraordinarily powerful original melodies,” Sartin says.Sartin and Hughes are aware that their mission to introduce The Transports to a wider audience involves making alterations to a piece held among many in the folk community as a sacred text. Though Bellamy’s work stands as a thematic song-cycle, he never foresaw it as a theatrical piece. “But I think Peter would be the first to agree that the tradition is supposed to evolve,” Hughes reasons. “And the whole idea behind the Young’uns is about trying to give everyone that experience of being ambushed by folk music the way we were as three daft 17-year-olds in a Teesside pub.” • The Transports is Sage Gateshead on 26 January (0191-443 4661), Pavilion Arts Centre Buxton on 27 January (01298 72190) and touring until 3 February.