‘You’re not reading it again, are you?’ my family would exclaim. As a child I read at least five or six books a week. But 101 Dalmatians was the one I returned to more than any other. The story captivated me. But it was more than that. I felt a kinship, a personal connection with this tale. Even when I wasn’t reading it, 101 Dalmatians lived inside my head.Top 10 ways to be evil in children’s books  Then one day in the local library, also known as my second home, I discovered a hefty volume called Who’s Who. Perusing its mighty pages I looked up the name I’d glimpsed so often on the cover of 101 Dalmatians – Dodie Smith. And there she was. I scribbled down her address – The Barretts, Finchingfield, Essex – and that night rushed off what I suspect was a fairly incoherent letter. I hoped for a reply without ever really expecting one. Yet, a week later came a brief but charming hand-written note. I re-read it even more often than 101 Dalmatians.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pete Johnson with one of Dodie Smith’s letters: ‘We never met, yet I felt closer to her than most people I saw everyday’. I was determined to track down everything else Dodie Smith had written. I started with a volume of her plays. I had never read a full length play before and these were all written decades before 101 Dalmatians. But I was immediately captured by them, especially ‘Dear Octopus’. And that led to a real Eureka moment. For I realised it wasn’t only the plot and characters of 101 Dalmatians which so entranced me, it was the author’s beguiling, humorous voice. I understood too why the highly regarded cartoon version of 101 Dalmatians was such a personal disappointment. I missed the writer.I Capture the Castle by Dodie Smith - review  Next I tracked down Dodie Smith’s novels. I Capture the Castle cast such a spell over me I wrote to her again. This was a far more detailed, thoughtful letter to which Dodie Smith replied, ‘I don’t think I’ve ever had a letter which shows more appreciation of my work’. She also told me she had a new children’s book, The Midnight Kittens, out soon. After devouring that I wrote to her a third time. That was when our correspondence took off. Dodie Smith told me fascinating details about her books (‘I poured myself into Cassandra in I Capture the Castle), but also wanted to know all about me. Dodie – as I was now urged to call her – had a wonderful eye for humorous, everyday details. I was inspired to attempt something similar in my replies. So I glowed when Dodie wrote, ‘Alec (her beloved husband) and I burst out laughing simultaneously about the girl who remarked on the carpet in the toilets’. And I treasured the time Dodie wrote, ‘The more I enjoy writing a letter, the worse my writing gets. I wouldn’t inflict it on anyone I didn’t know as well as I feel I know you’. This was exactly how I felt too. We never met, yet I felt closer to her than most people I saw everyday.What are the best stories to read aloud?  When Dodie suggested I try and become a writer I was incredibly excited – at first. But her initial suggestions – namely that I write a play for television – came to nothing. And I am certain my enthusiasm would have quickly melted away if Dodie hadn’t reminded me how tough writing can be – I Capture the Castle took her over four years and needed so much re-writing – and constantly urged me to believe in my ‘genuine talent’ and keep going. Dodie lived to see the publication of my first book (‘I don’t think I have ever been mentioned in a book’s dedication. Very proud I am’). Her last words to me – in a letter telling me of the sudden death of Alec, from which she never really recovered – were: ‘I have great confidence in you, your books, your whole future. I know Alec would feel the same’. A quarter of a century after her death I still miss Dodie’s letters. Actually I also miss writing to her. I have never again written such long letters to anyone. But Dodie’s voice is still gloriously alive in every bookshop and library.Pete Johnson has written more than 50 children’s books. His latest include How to Train Your Parents and How to Update Your Parents, available at the Guardian Bookshop.