Everyone loves a good Oscars party. Why not have some pun with it?Diana D’Abruzzo’s parties always have a fun twist: a play-on-words food for every best picture nominee. She came up with the idea in 2012 the night before her party and photoshopped some movie posters. (That year’s challenge: she and her friends were all on low-carb diets, so they had to be healthy, too.)“I called it the Oscarb-less party,” D’Abruzzo said. “Special guest dish: best director nominee Martin Scors-cheese-e.”Past favorites include American Slider (American Sniper) and Filet Miserables (Les Miserables). Here are this year’s delicious nominees for best picture, plus the recipes and posters to go with them.The Martini (The Martian)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A red martini in honor of the red planet. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoBlood orange martini(Recipe courtesy of Scott Leibfried via Food Network) Ingredients:4 ounces vodka 1/2 ounce triple sec or flavored orange liqueur 2 ounces blood orange juice 2 blood orange slicesDirections:In a martini shaker combine all ingredients except the orange slices with a generous amount of ice. Shake vigorously for a few seconds. Strain the libation from the ice into a martini glass. Garnish with the orange slices. The Revenuts (The Revenant)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shell lost, nut found. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoCinnamon-roasted almonds(Recipe from Allrecipes.com)Ingredients:1 egg white1 teaspoon cold water4 cups whole almonds1/2 cup white sugar1/4 teaspoon salt1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamonDirections:Preheat the oven to 250F (120C). Lightly grease a 10x15in jellyroll pan. Lightly beat the egg white; add water, and beat until frothy but not stiff. Add the nuts, and stir until well coated. Mix the sugar, salt and cinnamon, and sprinkle over the nuts. Toss to coat, and spread evenly on the prepared pan. Bake for 1 hour in the preheated oven, stirring occasionally, until golden. Allow to cool, then store nuts in airtight containers.Mad Max: Fury Roast (Mad Max: Fury Road)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   What a lovely beef. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoGingersnap pot roast(Recipe from Better Homes and Gardens New Cookbook)Ingredients:2- to 2.5-pound beef chuck pot roast1 tablespoon cooking oil1 cup water8 gingersnaps, crumbled (about 2/3 cup)2 tablespoons red wine vinegar1 teaspoon instant beef bouillon granules1/8 teaspoon ground red pepper3 medium sweet potatoes, peeled and quartered3 medium carrots or 2 medium parsnips, peeled and cut into bite-size chunks1 bay leafDirections:Trim fat from meat. If necessary, cut roast to fit into a 3.5- or 4-quart crockery cooker. In a large skillet, brown roast on all sides in hot oil. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine water, gingersnaps, vinegar, bouillon granules and red pepper. Place sweet potatoes, carrots and bay leaf in cooker. Places meat on top of vegetables. Pour gingersnap mixture over meat.Cover and cook on low-heat setting for 10 to 12 hours or high-heat setting for 5 to 6 hours. Transfer meat and vegetables to a platter. Remove bay leaf. Skim fat from gravy. Stir gravy to combine; ladle over roast and vegetables.Spudlight (Spotlight)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Break the chips, break the silence. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoBuy a bag of Ruffles – you know, for Mark Ruffalo. Open it. Pour into a bowl. Voilà!The Big Torte (The Big Short)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This recipe, with its apples, is a hat tip to the city that served as a backdrop to much of the financial crisis. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoApple bavarian torteRecipe by Terri Dallen via Allrecipes.comIngredients:Crust:1/2 cup butter1/3 cup white sugar1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract1 cup all-purpose flourCheese mixture:1 (8-ounce) package cream cheese1/4 cup white sugar, 1 egg, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extractApple mixture:6 apples – peeled, cored and thinly sliced1/3 cup white sugar1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon1/4 cup sliced almondsDirections:Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C). Cream together butter, 1/3 cup sugar, vanilla, and flour. Press crust mixture into the flat bottom of a 9-inch springform pan. Set aside. In a medium bowl, blend cream cheese and 1/4 cup sugar. Beat in egg and vanilla. Pour cheese mixture over crust. Combine 1/3 cup sugar and 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon. Toss the sliced apples with the sugar mixture and spread over the cheese filling. Bake for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 400F (200C) and continue baking for 25 minutes. Sprinkle almonds over top of torte. Continue baking until almonds are lightly browned and apples are tender. Cool before removing from pan.Broccolin (Brooklyn)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two condiments, two loves, one vegetable. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoRoasted broccoli with garlic(Recipe by Food Network)Ingredients:1 bunch broccoli (about 1 1/2 pounds), cut into florets, stems peeled and sliced or diced2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil3 cloves garlic, slicedKosher saltFreshly ground pepperDirections:Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Toss the broccoli florets with the olive oil, garlic, salt, and pepper on a baking sheet. Spread them out and then roast, without stirring, until the edges are crispy and the stems are crisp tender, about 20 minutes. Serve warm.’Shroom (Room)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Based on the bestselling fungus. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoStuffed mushrooms(Recipe courtesy of Giada De Laurentiis)Ingredients:1/2 cup Italian-style dried breadcrumbs 1/2 cup grated pecorino romano 2 garlic cloves, peeled and minced 2 tablespoons chopped fresh Italian parsley leaves 1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint leaves Salt and freshly ground black pepper 1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil 28 large (2 1/2-inch-diameter) white mushrooms, stemmed Directions:Preheat the oven to 400F. Stir the breadcrumbs, pecorino romano, garlic, parsley, mint, salt and pepper, to taste, and 2 tablespoons olive oil in a medium bowl to blend. Drizzle a heavy large baking sheet with about 1 tablespoon olive oil, to coat. Spoon the filling into the mushroom cavities and arrange on the baking sheet, cavity side up. Drizzle remaining oil over the filling in each mushroom. Bake until the mushrooms are tender and the filling is heated through and golden on top, about 25 minutes. Serve.Bridge of Pies (Bridge of Spies)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In the shadow of war, one delicious baked good showed the world what we stand for. Photograph: Diana D'AbruzzoMini no-bake cheesecakes(Recipe by Kraft)Ingredients:1 package (8 ounces) Philadelphia cream cheese, softened1/3 cup sugar1 tub (8-ounce) Cool Whip, thawed1 six-pack Keebler ready crust mini graham cracker pie crustsSliced strawberries (optional)Directions:Beat cream cheese and sugar in a large bowl with whisk or mixer until blended. Stir in Cool Whip. Spoon into crusts. Refrigerate 3 hours. Serve topped with sliced strawberries (optional). Whether you want to form them into a bridge is up to you.