“The in memoriam montage is just going to be black people who were shot by the cops on the way to the movies.”Chris Rock“A black girl would have to invent the cure for cancer before they even gave her a TV movie.”Whoopi Goldberg on Joy“It’s from Spectre, the latest James Bond film that I did not see.”Sarah Silverman on Sam Smith’s Oscar-winning song      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adam McKay, co-writer of the best adapted screenplay Oscar, for The Big Short Photograph: ddp USA/REX/Shutterstock“Don’t vote for weirdo billionaires.”Adam McKay“Jada boycotting the Oscars is like me boycotting Rihanna’s panties, I wasn’t invited.”Chris Rock“I literally started clapping when I saw Charlize Theron. She’s so beautiful.”Tina Fey“I really don’t do frocks and I absolutely don’t do heels. As far as I’m concerned, I’m really dressed up.”Jenny Beavan      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ali G (Sacha Baron Cohen in disguise) with Olivia Wilde Photograph: Kevin Winter/Getty Images“Check out a movie about a room full of white people.”Sacha Baron Cohen as Ali G on Room“Rocky takes place in a world where white athletes are as good as black athletes. Rocky is a science-fiction film.”Chris Rock“Yes, he is quite handsome I suppose.”C-3PO on a massive Oscar statuette“The winners of this category, all they have is this Oscar and going home in an Honda Civic.”Louis CK, presenting the award for best documentary short“It’s time for the colour of our skin to become as irrelevant as the length of our hair.”Alejandro González Iñárritu“Of all the girl-on-girl movies I have seen this year, Carol is about the third best.”Chris Rock      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Asif Kapadia, winner of the best documentary feature Oscar for Amy Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters“Ask those diversity questions to white people and not just the brown people. Ask everyone.”Asif Kapadia“Climate change is real and it’s happening right now. It’s the most urgent issue affecting our species.”Leonardo DiCaprio“It’s not enough to just listen and agree, we must take action.”Cheryl Boone Isaacs, Academy president, on diversity“Is Hollywood racist? You’re damn right Hollywood’s racist. But it isn’t the racist you’ve grown accustomed to. Hollywood is sorority racist. It’s like: ‘We like you, Rhonda, but you’re not a Kappa.’ That’s how Hollywood is.”Chris Rock“Ain’t just me bredren that are getting overlooked, it’s people of all colours. How come there’s no Oscar for dem hard-working little yellow people wiv tiny dongs. You know, the Minions.”Sacha Baron Cohen as Ali G“I want to dedicate this to the LGBT community around the world. I stand here tonight as a proud gay man and I hope that we can all stand as equals one day.”Sam Smith