When my children were small, we spent many happy hours in our local library in Cowley, Oxford. As soon as we crossed the threshold, they scrambled out of the pushchair, kicked off their wellies and dived into the picture book boxes.Those cosy days of rain trickling down the windowpanes, coats drying on the radiator and tiny hands resting gently on my knee were both precious and illuminating. At the time, I thought I was just keeping them busy, but now I look back on it, it was more than that. By taking them to the library I had unwittingly enrolled in a masterclass in children’s literature.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Claire Barker: Winnie and Knitbone, Dave and Dogger - some characters are simply “one dog” people and the world will never be right again until they are reunited. One morning my four-year-old handed me a book called Dogger by Shirley Hughes. The plain title, battered cover and torn pages gave no indication that I was about to read one of the greatest picture books ever.Shirley Hughes's top 10 picture book characters Through Dogger, Hughes pulled off something miraculous. The illustrations are a joy; full of life and pathos. But, for me, her words are the true wonder. She skillfully captures the essence of what it is to be a child; the wild rushes of love, the vulnerability and the healing power of kindness. Here was a book for children, addressing their hopes and fears with simple truths. Small children make no distinction between the small stuff and big stuff: it is ALL big stuff. Dogger is true drama. Seeing the concentrated expressions on my children’s faces as I read it out loud, their own special toys held tightly in their arms, I had something of an epiphany. I wanted to be able to perform this sort of magic; to write stories that would speak directly to a child’s heart.  I asked my daughter where in the library she had found it. She took my hand and led me over to a box near the door. It had a handwritten sign on it: For Sale. We paid our 10p, slid it into the back of the pushchair and wheeled it home. Sixteen years have passed and we have been reading the same battered copy ever since. Shirley Hughes: I hope books survive, they are wonderful pieces of technology  Then one day I sat down at my kitchen table and wrote Knitbone Pepper; a story about a little girl called Winnie who loses her real life dog, only to be finally reunited with him as a ghost. The story is set in tumbledown Starcross Hall, home to the eccentric Pepper family for over 900 years. Unbeknownst to them, its corridors are alive with Beloveds: the spirits of loyal Pepper pets that have loved their person so much they don’t fade away. They are an eccentric bunch; including a librarian goose and a bonkers Elizabethan monkey who carries spoons around in an old handbag. They pass the centuries with regular committee meetings, book-clubs and ginger biscuit feasts (“no other biscuit makes a ghost feel more alive”).Top 10 haunted houses in fiction  At first glance the fantastical mayhem of Starcross may appear to be very different to the quiet hum of Dave’s school fete, but they are the same at their core. They are both bittersweet tales of true love and of the healing power of friendship. Winnie and Knitbone, Dave and Dogger: some characters are simply “one dog” people and the world will never be right again until they are reunited. Both stories look at a child’s experience of loss, square in the eye, and then does what real-life often omits to do: fix it with a broad brushstroke of joy. After all these years, I‘m so pleased to know that Dogger is there in the background of Knitbone Pepper, sitting patiently between the lines. Good dog.Claire Barker is the author of the Knitbone Pepper Ghost Dog series. The second book, Knitbone Pepper Ghost Dog and the Last Circus Tiger, is out now. Buy Knitbone Pepper Ghost Dog and the Last Circus Tiger at the Guardian bookshop.