Lily Cole is sitting on a sofa staring at an old photograph of herself with a look of complete surprise. The image, which was donated to the National Portrait Gallery 10 years ago, is called Lily Cole As Elizabeth I. But five minutes ago, when Cole and I first sat down to discuss her upcoming role as the Virgin Queen, the 29-year-old had no idea she had ever portrayed her before. “Really?” she said. “Really? I didn’t know that. Which image?”The shot, taken by the fashion photographer Eitan Lee Al, is a massive closeup of Cole’s face when she was 17. She laughs when she sees she looks nothing like Elizabeth – except, perhaps, for her rather supercilious expression. “That’s so funny. That title has totally been put on by the photographer after.” She looks impressed. “Interesting news. Thanks.”That, I realise later, is her way of congratulating me for doing my homework – behaviour she undoubtedly approves of. Cole, it turns out, is a bit of a swot. “I always found that in school, if I worked really hard, I would get the results. So that set up this equation in my brain: it’s just about working hard. If I do that with other things, if I put my heart and soul into it, almost anything is possible.”This would explain how, when she was in her early 20s, she managed to model, act and get a double first in history of art from Cambridge, all at the same time. She remains a massive history buff, and spent a long time reading about the queen before she agreed to play her in Channel 5’s new drama. “Her life was so peculiar – having so many family members try to kill you, that by the time she’d made it to queen ...” She hesitates. “It was a complete headfuck, really, for want of a better word.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I’d normally feel guilty if I was bossing people around’ … Lily Cole. Photograph: David M Benett/GettyIn the three-parter, which combines drama and commentary, Cole plays Elizabeth from the age of 20, when she was almost tried for treason by her sister Mary I (or Bloody Mary, as she was known after death, due to her execution of Protestants). Cole’s part in the series culminates when Elizabeth, now 55, executes her cousin, Mary Queen of Scots. “That’s a long time,” says Cole. “A hell of a lot of things happened, and the conflict on the continent was intense. But the impression I got was that Elizabeth always tried to keep peace and bring unity to the country.”Filming took place in January, while Cole was also in the middle of editing Lights in Dark Places, a documentary she directed about volunteers who work with refugees on the Greek island of Samos. “At the same time, we had the travel ban in the US. It seemed an interesting comparison. I don’t want to be reductive, but the conflict between Protestant and Catholic in Elizabeth’s time – in my opinion, today, it’s just [the same] conflict by a different name. Ultimately, they are differing belief systems, different enough for people to die over.”When she tells me about what happened to a Syrian refugee called Amal, she stops speaking and looks away. “Ah,” she says, “it makes me want to cry all over again.” Amal, a journalist, had been imprisoned in Syria for seven months for filming what was happening in the country. But her punishment did not stop there: in one of the most chilling moments in the documentary, Amal reveals that her brother was murdered.Cole asked Amal to film what was happening in her refugee camp and used the footage in her documentary. “Once I knew what she had experienced, it felt incredibly poignant to give her a platform.” She adds: “I got an email from her yesterday. She’s been given asylum. So that’s amazing news.” Elizabeth made big sacrifices – she didn't have a child, didn't get to marry the man she loved Cole is now a mother, she and her boyfriend, Kwame Ferreira, having had a baby girl in 2015. “I think we’re doing a decent job of it between the two of us,” she says. “But with so many of my friends, the woman ends up performing the ‘mother’ role, being more of the caretaker, sacrificing her career. I’m not saying that’s wrong, but it’s not always that they want to do that. I’ve started to feel like feminism is one of the most important issues we have.”Did that feed into her portrayal of Elizabeth? “I tried to think about her from her own perspective – and I don’t think she would have thought of herself as a feminist. But I do think she felt capable, smart, intelligent, sure of her own merits, and anxious not to be put into a submissive position just because she was a woman. I think by avoiding marriage she made sure she stayed in power and control. But there were big sacrifices. She lost her ability to have a child, she didn’t get to marry the man she loved.”What about dressing up in all those silly ruffs – did you enjoy that? “Yeah, yeah, yeah!” she laughs. “And getting to play a queen. I’d normally feel quite guilty if I was bossing people around. But when you’re playing Elizabeth I, you can really enjoy being superior.”Elizabeth I is on Channel 5 in May.