Cornelia Parker: ‘I devoured the knowledge and use it all the time’Who thought it would be a good idea to undermine art in the school curriculum? Who thought studying the history of our visual culture was a waste of time? Who thought that only private schools should have that privilege? Was it someone who said we don’t need experts? If it is good enough for Prince William and Kate, why is studying art history not good enough for the masses? What happened to Cool Britannia, aspiration, social mobility?Last art history A-level axed after Michael Gove cull of 'soft' subjects Hedgerows are being uprooted that will be virtually impossible to replace. Our cultural industries are our biggest export, our biggest manufacturing base. Every pound spent on art education brings disproportionately large returns. It’s the biggest bang for our buck. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. In fact, the more you put in, the greater the successes for the UK economy.Hasn’t all the investment in the Olympics taught us a valuable lesson? It paid back big time in terms of our wellbeing, national pride and collective psychological health. At a time when teen stress levels are rocketing and one in four of them are self-harming, we shouldn’t be cutting back their options to have a visually enriched and creative future. It is mad that children at state schools are only going to be able to take three A-levels. Art and art history taken together make sense, but very able pupils are being dissuaded – or even prevented – from studying art and design, in order to “improve” a school’s data for inspection. This is an awful situation.As a working-class girl, receiving free school dinners, I studied art history. Having never had the chance to visit art galleries, I devoured the knowledge and it has served me well as a practising artist. I can appreciate the visual riches our many museums are stuffed with. It has hugely enriched my life and career and hopefully those of countless students I passed the knowledge on to, during the 15 years I spent teaching at art school. I use references to art history all the time in my work, germs of knowledge that were planted in my impressionable mind at school.Our museums are famous worldwide. They make the UK a prime cultural destination for tourists. Who thinks it is wise to scrap an A-level that encourages future homegrown experts in the field? Now more than ever, as we face Brexit, we have to fully understand what our cultural capital is and how we can best use it. We should be widening our cultural knowledge not shrinking it. Anish Kapoor: ‘It gives you a sense of citizenship’The humanities are under assault. How can people possibly say this subject is less important than any other? How do they know? So much flows from a knowledge of art history, from such an education. It gives you a sense of citizenship, a sense of how we relate to the world. It can answer the great questions of history and consciousness. And we are letting it go. Whatever is seen as economically unproductive is simply dismissed. All work is made in reference to what came before. When you think about 19th-century art, you think of this closed, tight thing. Then Monet came along and everything suddenly exploded. His work is all about producing an amazing visual field of colour – it’s almost nothing to do with bloody gardens! By studying this, you can learn a lot about abstract expressionism. You can’t look at Monet without seeing Pollock. You hear people talking a lot today about how great Apple is because it’s so intuitive, so easy to use. What they mean is it’s visual. All our language, so much of our culture, is visual.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tremendous knowledge … Picasso’s Head of a Woman, from his African period. Photograph: B Christopher/AlamyYinka Shonibare: ‘The young will have no grasp of their own culture’This is a terrible, terrible, terrible, terrible idea. We are becoming a nation of philistines. How can we have a young generation with no grasp of their own culture? There will be no innovative young people coming through. You need to know what came before.I wouldn’t be an artist if I hadn’t studied art history. I loved all of it, from medieval art to the Renaissance to modern times. It’s especially important to someone like me who has African roots. It connects me with my ancestors and has an enormous bearing on my self-esteem and on my politics. Just take the example of Picasso. He had a tremendous knowledge of art history and was hugely influenced by African sculpture. He then went on to shape the whole of western modern art. I get so annoyed when people say this a subject studied by posh people. Art is for everyone. Art history is for everyone. The humanities are for everyone.Stuart Maconie: ‘It is the clearest mirror you can hold up’I had a spat with Michael Gove in a hotel bedroom in Leeds last week. He wasn’t there, I should point out. It was via social media, the platform via which I had angrily and, it seems, too hastily berated him for being responsible for the scrapping of art history A-level. He replied by saying that he had nothing to do with scrapping art history, indeed that he “hearted” art history (with an actual emoji, which was kind of apt). Well, whoever’s idea it is, it’s a lousy one. Art history A-level made me see the world differently, made me understand the world better and enjoy it more.At the turn of the 80s, in my late teens in Wigan, I found myself briefly, academically becalmed before beginning my degree, and so chose to fill my time with two extra A-levels, chosen pretty much on a whim. One was British social and economic history, a subject I would now find fascinating but from which I carry with me little except for the pioneering Speenhamland benefits system of rural Berkshire and the six demands of the Chartists.My other A-level though was art history, and almost every moment of it, every darkened afternoon with Keith Spruce, “Bri” Lewis and Dorothy Taylor chatting informally but authoritatively at the slide machine, looking at Fra Filippo Lippi or Degas or Kandinsky or Mondrian, has stayed with me. Those long, absorbing hours taught me that the creation, appreciation and love of art is not just the mark of any civilised society, it is the clearest mirror you can hold up to that society, telling you more of its time than a thousand academic histories or earnest documentaries.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Satirising consumerism … a worker hanging Campbell’s Soup by Andy Warhol. Photograph: Dani Cardona/ReutersSometimes that’s obvious even to the kind of churl who wants to scrap art history. Picasso’s Guernica is a moment of blazing reportage, for instance, and the British war artists such as Nash and Nevinson evoked the dream-like horrors of the western front. But art also gives you the authentic flavour of its day. In the work of the Italian futurists, you can see all the dangerous, muscular allure of fascism and communism. Mondrian brings you the pulsating joys of jazz age Manhattan while Andy Warhol celebrates and satirises 50s and 60s consumerism in the same frame. It wasn’t prescriptive either. Keith Spruce clearly hadn’t much time for Salvador Dalí. ( “Avida Dollars” was his favourite anagram for the old shyster.) But he told us all about the influence of Freudian psychoanalysis and dream theory in art and invited us to speculate on the artist as merchandise brand.Sometimes the insights it gave me were more personal. Stanley Spencer’s work haunted me and shaped my views of a kind of mythic, phantasmagorical England where sex, nature and religion combined in works of beauty and strangeness such as Resurrection Cookham and Man Goeth to His Log Home. Der Blaue Reiter and Die Brüke groups from Germany fed my cravings for existential darknesses where I could mull endlessly. (Karl Schmitt Rotluff’s Woman With a Bag is, essentially, The Scream for cool kids; look it up.) From Modigliani I learned a lot about sex. Not the thing itself, but the nature of the thing. It’s not just that his nudes and portraits of women are sexy – they are achingly, breathtakingly so – but they tell you everything about the nature of longing, desire and heartbreak, as well as the myth of the doomed romantic genius. More than anything, art history taught me to see the brilliance, bravery and sheer fun in the experimental in every medium, particularly music and film, the need to have art that will challenge the dreary orthodoxies of the day. Without the revolution in the head art history gave me, I doubt I would ever have loved, or “got”, free jazz, John Cage, Webern, drone, Morton Feldman, Peter Greenaway, Stan Brakhage or Peter Strickland.This was not a world I was born to. But in their gentle way, my art history classes and teachers helped me storm a citadel I’ve lived in – and made my living from – ever since. As of this week, there’ll be fewer kids like me getting that joy, that chance, that right.