On 17 January, Scholastic Inc withdrew my picture book A Birthday Cake For George Washington, from publication. The book, which is a fictionalised account of an afternoon in the life of Hercules, George Washington’s enslaved chef, had been fiercely criticized since its release on 5 January, because of illustrations that depicted, according to critics, “smiling, happy slaves”.Many critics complained that the book’s main character, Hercules, and those who worked with him, could not have been as cheerful as depicted because they were enslaved. In part, I understand their complaint. When I first saw the illustrations, I also objected. Though I wrote a children’s book, I am a journalist, culinary scholar and historical researcher. As such, I thought about this project in the way a historian does: I wanted it to get Hercules’s story as close to the truth as possible.I had my own problems with the book’s illustrations and marketing copy. It is a strange truth about children’s publishing that authors and illustrators rarely interact. While I objected to the “over-joviality” of the enslaved characters as well as to the marketing copy when I finally saw it weeks prior to publication, I had no contractual right to change any of it. The publisher simply didn’t have to listen to me, so it didn’t.As painful as it’s been for me to have the book recalled, there is some comfort in the fact people have come to know Hercules, although not in the way that I had hoped. As part of the ongoing discussion of my book, numerous commenters have surmised about Hercules, purported to know how he must have felt, made definitive statements of what his life would have been like and about what he surely thought. I’m gratified that Hercules has become such an object of public interest. He’s held my interest and abiding respect since I first learned about him five years ago. I’ve spent hundreds of hours and pored through thousands of pages to understand Hercules and his world. But so much of what people are saying about him now does not ring true to me, based on that research. I can’t know exactly what he thought or how he felt, of course. But in writing the book my aim was always to represent him as he saw himself: dignified, commanding and proud. I “met” Hercules while writing and researching an African American heritage cookbook, for which I interviewed Clinton aide turned culinary scholar Adrian Miller about the black cooks of American presidents. Miller, who later penned the James Beard award-winning Soul Food, told me about the enslaved cook of George Washington, a man named Hercules who was so renowned for his culinary skill that he was something of a celebrity in Philadelphia, then the United States capital.George Washington was the most famous man in the world – there is no modern comparison for the celebrity status he enjoyed. He could have hired the greatest chefs available – even from Europe. Instead, he depended on Hercules to be in charge of his table – not just for the family’s meals but also for state dinners and other special events. The chef was known to be extremely exacting – and absolutely in command of his kitchen and of himself – skills gained solely through apprenticeship and self-teaching.A painting of Hercules hangs in a Spanish museum, and when I saw it I was captivated. Hercules stares out of the frame with just a hint of a Mona Lisa smile, dignified and relaxed in the assurance of his own importance. Unlike portraits of artisans of the day, he is not depicted with the tools of his trade, but simply fills the frame in his white coat and hat – larger than life.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A painting of George Washington’s cook (traditionally identified as Hercules). Photograph: Gilbert Stuart/WikipediaHe was a fastidious man, carrying a gold cane. His demand for precision and punctuality was legendary. When a guest arrived late to a weekly dinner in Washington held for congressmen, he would be chastised by the president. His cook, Washington said, never asked whether the guests had arrived but “whether the hour has come”. Washington had such respect for him that he allowed Hercules to bring his son to Philadelphia too. In a letter to his secretary Tobias Lear, Washington says that he is allowing Richmond to come specifically to honor the request of his father – not because Richmond seemed particularly suited for the job.Hercules was a man who saw opportunity and knew when to take it. His cunning allowed him to escape from slavery. Hercules traded on his charm and character to convince Martha Washington to allow him to remain in Philadelphia – foiling her plan to rotate him out of the city before he had been there six consecutive months. That made him free, according the Gradual Abolition Act of 1787.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The writer and journalist Ramin Ganeshram, who wrote A Birthday Cake for George Washington, subsequently recalled by Scholastic. Photograph: JP VellottiEventually Hercules’s fortunes did take a bad turn – he was forced to remain at Mount Vernon in the summer of 1796 while the Washingtons returned to Philadelphia. His son, Richmond, who had been sent back to Virginia years earlier, had been caught stealing money from the saddlebag of a white servant. Washington, ever fearful about his enslaved people escaping, left Hercules behind to do hard labor, assuming he was part of a larger plan hatched between the chef and his son. Washington also demanded that Richmond be “made an example of”.Nonetheless, Hercules did not fit the “norms” of his time. He was able to overcome some of the restrictive rules that were wrongfully but generally applied to enslaved people. To say that Hercules couldn’t have done certain things or lived a certain way because others who suffered under the criminal institution of slavery did not, is simply not historically true.In many ways, Hercules was highly unusual, but in other ways he was not. For our modern purposes, this may be the most important fact of all, for Hercules represents just one of the many overlooked, yet remarkable people of color who personally triumphed over their terrible circumstances to their advantage through their dignity and intellect. I know this to be true because I’ve read the works of modern scholars such as Ira Berlin, who speak carefully and eloquently on the nuances within the vile system of slavery. I listened to hours of slave narratives collected for the Federal Writer’s Project in the 1930s and housed at the Library of Congress and read the many hundreds of written accounts there as well. I spoke with and followed leading culinary historians such as Michael Twitty, whose thoughtful and provocative re-enactments of 18th century enslaved cooks helped inform my understanding of the world in which Hercules lived and worked.And the more years that I studied the intricacies of enslavement from state to state, plantation to farm, era-to-era, person-to-person, field to house, the more remarkable Hercules’s story – and those like him – became. Hercules’s story is complex, but that is exactly why to my mind it deserves to be told in books for children and adults. Banning A Birthday Cake for George Washington felt, to me, like an erasure. But we cannot stop trying to reveal these histories. It goes without saying that these and other enslaved people were not happy to be enslaved. It goes without saying that their lives were harder and crueler than we could possibly imagine with our modern, free outlook. It goes without saying that an irrevocable injustice was done them.But it is also true that they were triumphant, brilliant, complicated and extraordinary. And there are many more of these incredible people in the historical record, waiting to be rediscovered as long as we are willing to find them. We owe them a debt of respect and gratitude. And by speaking out rather than remaining cowed and silent we must do them the justice of telling their individual truths particular to their experiences.