This.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Wow – we have nothing more to say. Rebel of the Sands – the first in a brand new fantasy trilogy – is one of the most eagerly-anticipated debuts of 2016, so hot off the press we don’t even have any reviews on the Children’s books site yet. It’s full of smouldering strong heroines, smouldering hunky heroes, smouldering desert heat... OK you get the picture! Here’s a little blurb and details of how to get your hands on a copy:Rebel of the Sands Tell me that and we’ll go. Right now. Save ourselves and leave this place to burn. Tell me that’s how you want your story to go and we’ll write it straight across the sand.Dustwalk is Amani’s home. The desert sand is in her bones. But she wants to escape. More than a want. A need.Then a foreigner with no name turns up to save her life, and with him the chance to run. But to where? The desert plains are full of danger. Sand and blood are swirling, and the Sultan’s enemies are on the rise.Read the first chapter here.How to enterTen teen readers, a copy of this gripping and fantastic desert drama could be yours! Just enter this prize draw by emailing childrens.books@theguardian.com with the following details: your name, your age, your address, your parent or guardian’s name, your parent or guardian’s telephone number.Webchat: the world of fantasy fiction - as it happened Entrants must be between 13 and 18 years of age. After the draw closes at midnight on Tuesday 8 March 2016 we will pick 10 winners at random, who will each receive a copy of Rebel of the Sands. Good luck and don’t forget to read the Ts&Cs below!Terms and conditions1. The competition to win a copy of Rebel of the Sands by Alwyn Hamilton (“the Competition”) is open to children between 13 and 18 years of age who are UK residents, excluding employees or agents of Guardian News & Media Limited (“GNM”), its group companies or their family members, or anyone else connected with the Competition. We reserve the right to ask for proof of age of entrants to the Competition.2. To enter the Competition you must email childrens.books@theguardian.com with the following details: your name, your age, and your address. If you are under the age of 16, you must also include the name, contact telephone number and email address of your parent or guardian. We reserve the right to ask for parents’ or guardians’ consent. We will use this information only in relation to the Competition and we will not keep it for longer than necessary.3. If you are under 16 please check that your parent or guardian is happy for you enter the Competition based on these terms and conditions.4. If you have any questions about how to enter the Competition, please email us at childrens.books@theguardian.com with “teen book club competition: query” in the subject line.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? 5. Submitting an entry to the Competition is confirmation of acceptance of these terms and conditions.6. Only one entry is permitted per person. Entries on behalf of another person (except those made by a parent or guardian in accordance with clause 2 above) will not be accepted and joint entries are not allowed.7. The closing date and time of the Competition is midnight on Tuesday 8 March 2016. Entries received after the closing date and time will not be included in the prize draw.8. There will be one prize and ten winners chosen at random from all eligible entries.9. The prize is a copy of the book Rebel of the Sands by Alwyn Hamilton.10. The winners will be notified by email within 28 days of the closing date. If the winner and his or her parent cannot be reached or fail to acknowledge such notification within seven days, GNM will re-draw and select a new winner of the prize (and the same acceptance period will apply). If a winner rejects his or her prize, then the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be sent to the winners by 20 April 2016.12. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.13. GNM reserves the right to change the prize at its discretion or to offer an alternative of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.14. The winners may be required to take part in promotional activity including the use of his or her photograph in connection with publicity about the prize.15. GNM requires the consent in writing (which may include email) of the parent or guardian of the winner if he or she is under 16 years of age in order to publish the winner’s name, age and town or city of residence on guardian.co.uk. If GNM does not receive such written consent from the parent or guardian of the winner then we may award the prize to another entry.16. We take no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of entry is not proof of receipt.17. No purchase is necessary.18. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude liability for death, personal injury or fraud, as a result of negligence.19. Any personal data submitted by the entrant will be used solely in accordance with current UK data protection legislation and GNM’s privacy policy.20. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding.21. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.22. Details of the winners can be obtained by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Children’s books site, Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.23. The promoter of the Competition is GNM whose address is Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.24. The Competition will be governed by and interpreted according to English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to deal with any disputes arising in connection with it.