Fewer than half (46%) of the chief executives of the world’s largest companies say a binding agreement on climate change at the UN’s climate summit in Paris  will push them to prioritise the issue, according to new research by PwC. Biggest food and drink companies found to be ignoring impact on climate The firm polled 142 international business leaders on the business risks of climate change. Only a minority (albeit a “growing” one) of chief executives are engaged with the UN process, with most lacking any real understanding of the detail or implications, says Jon Williams, partner for sustainability and climate change at PwC.Many are also “jaundiced” by the seemingly interminable process of agreeing a global climate deal. The Paris meeting from 30 November to 11 December sees negotiators entering their third decade of discussions. “CEOs are much more motivated by national governments putting in climate legislation, whether it comes from Paris or somewhere else. If and when it comes, that’s what they will respond to,” Williams says.Missed opportunityWilliams describes Paris as a “missed opportunity”for businesses to engage in the policy process around a global deal, which will ultimately feed into the climate rules and regulations that their businesses will face in the future. It’s the shorter-term pressures rather than longer-term financial risks that motivate business leaders, the survey suggests. Top of the list is greater public awareness and engagement on climate change, with four out of five (80%) of those surveyed identifying this as an important driver for action. In other words: they worry that global warming might affect how consumers shop. The second major driver is the emergence of national policy frameworks on emission reductions. More than seven out of 10 (77%) chief executives say that a clear and robust policy roadmap would spur their industry to action. The importance of consumer attitudes is self-evident. Therein lies a major source of corporate profits. The significance of policy frameworks is more nuanced. On the one hand, policy has a habit of converting into costly legislation. Government regulation concerns the majority of chief executives (56%), as do energy prices (62%) – something that government policy has a huge impact on. Policy frameworks aren’t just about the stick of regulation, however. Long-term direction from government can also provide businesses with a carrot, especially for those companies positioned to take advantage of a shift towards clean technologies and alternative energy.Growth focusShifting the debate towards the potential upsides of a global climate deal is needed if corporations are to engage in the process, Williams argues. The survey findings back this up. Of those chief executives taking action on climate change, more than half (53%) say they are doing so to improve shareholder value.“Paris is not trying to put a dampener on global growth … it’s about driving a wedge between global growth and energy use,” says Williams. “There are thousands of technologies that will help fix climate change, whether it’s energy efficiency or better communications. If you are the company deploying those technologies, there’s a massive opportunity.”A separate survey released earlier this week by the global accountability system CDP gives a more upbeat picture of business opinion regarding the Paris summit. Of the 916 participating corporations, 805 said they support a legally binding plan to combat climate change. Among the list are 11 of the world’s largest energy companies, including Shell, Gazprom and Statoil. Paul Dickinson, executive chairman of CDP, says businesses should engage in discussions with climate negotiators. How to do that requires sensitivity, however, as big business has a “chequered history” of lobbying against climate action, he says. A reasonable position, he advises, is for business leaders to request that policy-makers give as much clarity as possible about their carbon-reduction plans. “The agreement that will come out of Paris isn’t going to be properly implemented until about 2020. Businesses are saying that they are taking steps now and so it’s fair for them to ask governments to establish a stable regime that will allow this process to continue,” says Dickinson. Lobbying fearsMany environment groups, however, are pushing for less corporate involvement rather than more. An online petition by Greenpeace, Amazon Watch and other campaign groups to resist business input into the Paris negotiations has more than 260,000 signatories. Big business using trade groups to lobby against EU climate policy “Business lobbying is to blame for the undermining of solutions such as the EU emissions trading scheme and the promotion of ‘techno-fixes’ such as biofuels,” argues Pascoe Sabido, a climate researcher with the Corporate Europe Observatory, an anti-lobbying group.“Businesses have a voice and they already make it heard loudly. But we want governments to put society and the planet before an economic model that appears pretty broken,” he says. “The real solution is a serious amount of regulation and that’s what big business has been fighting against for the last 30 years,” he adds. Rosie Rogers, political advisor at Greenpeace UK, concedes that environmentally responsible companies have a role to play in sharing best practice and supporting radical action. Her concerns centre on the regressive companies that see climate change as a threat and seek to derail progress towards a global climate deal. “Corporate influence can be negative as well as positive, but the negative side is already very active,” she says. “So the balance provided by more progressive companies would be very useful, before and after the Paris negotiations.” • This piece was amended on 4 September to reflect that ConocoPhillips have restated its position to CDP on its support for a binding climate deal from a “yes” to a “blank”. The number of companies which support the binding deal has also been reduced from 808 to 805. 