As famous last words go, few match the wit and wilful prescience of Oscar Wilde’s alleged epithet.While the Anglo-Irish novelist, playwright and poet lay dying in a grotty Parisian hotel, he reportedly told a friend: “This wallpaper and I are fighting a duel to the death. One of us has got to go.”The wallpaper stayed longer than Wilde, who died shortly afterwards. Since then, France has almost as wilfully ignored the ardent Francophile, though fans still beat a path to his grave at Père-Lachaise cemetery.Now, 116 years after his death at the age of 46, the first major exhibition in the French capital on the life and work of Wilde has opened. Called Insolence Incarnate, it features 200 exhibits from private and public collections, including manuscripts, photographs, paintings and personal items.Wilde, who spoke French, fled to Paris in 1897 after being hounded out of Britain following his conviction for gross indecency over his doomed love for Lord Alfred Douglas. He spent most of his two-year sentence incarcerated in Reading jail and later wrote the Ballad of Reading Gaol in France.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A painting of Oscar Wilde hangs inside a cell in the former Reading gaol. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty ImagesThe centenary of his death was marked in London, but not in Paris.Merlin Holland, Wilde’s grandson, who lives in France, helped put the show together. He said some of the correspondence from Wilde, written on blue prison paper, in which he pleads for clemency, was “still very hard to read”.“To see him have to plead like that is quite hard to take. Having to say that he was ‘suffering from the most horrible form of erotomania … which left him prey to the most revolting passions’, was just not Oscar. It shows how desperate he was,” Holland told Agence France-Presse.The exhibition also features the calling card left by Douglas’s father, the Marquess of Queensberry. “For Oscar Wilde posing Somdomite (sic)”, it reads.The card prompted Wilde’s disastrous legal action against the aristocrat for defamation.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oscar Wilde’s lipstick-covered tomb at Père-Lachaise cemetery in Paris. Photograph: Richard Wareham Fotografie/AlamyAlso on show are photographs of his bedroom in the Hôtel d’Alsace on Paris’s left bank where he died, impoverished, of cerebral meningitis. His tomb, designed by Sir Jacob Epstein, was cleaned of the many lipstick marks left by admirers in 2011 and a glass barrier erected to protect the stone. Holland is the son of Vyvyan Wilde, one of the writer’s two sons with his wife Constance, who, he says, changed the family name after being made to feel like the wife of a “monster”. “My name is the eternal reproach of Victorian hypocrisy,” Holland told Paris Match.Oscar Wilde: Insolence Incarnate at Petit Palais runs from 28 September to 15 January.