The oak chair that author JK Rowling sat in while writing the first two book Harry Potter books may not confer magical powers. But as a piece of literary memorabilia, it is impossible not to be charmed by it – perhaps even bewitched enough to bid $45,000 for it. That will be the opening bid when Heritage Auctions offers the very special seat for sale in New York next month, on behalf of an unnamed consignor in Manchester, England. Listed among the top five “finest collectibles in Muggledom”, this 1930s-era dining chair was given to Rowling in 1995 as part of a free set to furnish her council flat in Edinburgh. She choose the “comfiest” one of the four – the one with a red thistle decoration – as her writing chair while drafting both Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone (1997) and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998). Following the publication of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire in 2000, Rowling donated the chair to a small auction in 2002 called Chair-ish a Child, in aid of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Before the auction, however, she refurbished the chair using shades of gold, rose, and green paint. On the stiles and splats, she inscribed in gold, “You may not find me/ pretty ~ but / don’t judge / on what you see.” Along the apron of the seat, she continued: “I wrote / Harry Potter / while sitting/on this chair.” Lightning bolt embellishments evoke Harry’s famous forehead scar, and the word “Gryffindor” appears on the cross stretcher.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Before she first put the chair up for charity auction in 2002, Rowling ‘refurbished’ it with Potter-themed inscriptions. Photograph: Heritage AuctionsRowling’s transformed chair raised £15,000 ($23,475) for charity and then disappeared for seven years. When this wicked piece of Potter memorabilia resurfaced in 2009, it was rather quietly for sale on eBay, where the top bidder (and current consignor) nabbed it for £19,555 ($29,117).“For me, what’s important about the chair is that [Rowling] basically created a unique artwork that’s self-reflexive. It’s all about her creation,” said James Gannon, director of rare books at Heritage Auctions. “There’s not that much in Harry Potter world that’s very valuable or very rare because the books were so big so quickly, so after the first couple of books, the first editions were quite large, and I think, by the end, they were printing like 8m or 10m copies of the first edition.”The chair comes with a typed and signed letter, “Dear new-owner-of-my-chair,” composed by Rowling before the 2002 auction. Written on “Owl Post” stationery, Rowling briefly relates the history of the chair before adding this parting line: “My nostalgic side is quite sad to see it go, but my back isn’t.”Serious Potter collectors are well aware of the expense of their hobby. For example, a mint first edition of Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, of which only 500 were printed, sold for $43,750 at Heritage three years ago. Another first edition of that title, illustrated and annotated by the author, sold at a London charity auction in 2013 for £150,000 ($227,421). And, before that, the Amazon.com chief executive, Jeff Bezos, bought Rowling’s manuscript of The Tales of Beedle the Bard for nearly $4m at auction. (Gannon said he has thought to reach out to Bezos about the chair, because “You know, wouldn’t this go great with The Tales of Beedle the Bard that you bought?!”)“I’d be surprised if this didn’t sell for at least $75,000, and I think it easily could best $100,000 too,” said Gannon.Authors’ furniture, particularly the type that is related to their craft, occasionally turns up at auction, to mixed results. Bram Stoker’s desk – also altered into an art object – failed to sell in 2012, having been estimated between $60,000 and 80,000, but the desk and chair set favored by Charles Dickens while he wrote Great Expectations made more than $850,000 in 2008. In 2011, Herman Melville’s mahogany lap desk, complete with two penknives, glass inkwell, and a pair of tweezers, was purchased by author/illustrator Maurice Sendak for $34,160.Beginning in mid-March, window shoppers in New York City can cast their eyes on the sorcerer’s seat at Heritage’s 445 Park Avenue gallery. Online bidding will commence on 18 March and culminate in a live auction on 6 April, where interest is expected to be intense. Gannon has been “guarding the chair” in his Dallas office since its voyage across the ocean, as friends, family members and colleagues all want a photo op with it. He said he has been storing it in its custom-made crate “to keep people from sitting on it”. 