Jessica Knoll, the American author of the New York Times bestselling novel Luckiest Girl Alive, has published an online essay revealing that the rape suffered by the protagonist, TifAni FaNellis (Ani), was based on a gang-rape she survived when she was 15.Lena Dunham's newsletter is a victory for the letter-writing renaissance In the essay published to LennyLetter, an e-newsletter edited by Girls showrunners Lena Dunham and Jenni Konner, Knoll admits she has been regularly deflecting questions from readers about her similarities to the thriller’s main character, and about the dedication she left at the beginning of the book: “To all the TifAni FaNellis of the world, I know.” It means I know what it’s like to not belong, I waffle in response to readers, usually women whose albatrosses I can sense, just as they sense mine. What I don’t add: I know what it’s like to shut down and power through, to have no other choice than to pretend to be OK. I am a savant of survivor mode. In harrowing scenes, Knoll relates her violent and traumatic rape by three boys, after she “slipped away from the waking world” at a party when she was 15 years old. She recalls flitting in and out of consciousness while being raped by different boys, and “waking up later in a bathroom, seeing a toilet bowl of blood-tinged water, and not understanding where it came from”.The doctor she saw for the morning after pill wouldn’t call it a rape; neither, she says, would her classmates, who tormented her and called her a “slut”. The one time Knoll used the word “rape”, she backed down from the word the following day. “I apologized to my rapist for calling him a rapist. What a thing to live with,” she writes.Knoll’s therapist was the first person who told her she was gang-raped, when she was 22. Now 32, after coming to terms with what happened to her, she writes that she is “very, very angry”. My anger is carbon monoxide, binding to pain, humiliation, and hurt, rendering them powerless. You would never know when you met me how angry I am. Like Ani, I sometimes feel like a wind-up doll. Turn my key and I will tell you what you want to hear. I will smile on cue. My anger is odorless, colorless, and tasteless. It’s completely toxic. The protagonist of Luckiest Girl Alive shares similarities with the author. Ani, a 28-year-old editor at a women’s magazine, returns to her prestigious high school to work on a documentary, and is confronted by the rage she has carried since being raped as a teenager. Knoll, who was 28 when she wrote the book, is a former editor at Cosmopolitan who had a similar upbringing.“I’ve been running and I’ve been ducking and I’ve been dodging because I’m scared,” Knoll writes, of her unwillingness to admit she was writing from experience. “I’m scared people won’t call what happened to me rape because for a long time, no one did.”But 17 years later, Knoll says she’s finally ready to use the word publicly: “As I gear up for my paperback tour, and as I brace myself for the women who ask me, in nervous, brave tones, what I meant by my dedication, What do I know?, I’ve come to a simple, powerful revelation: everyone is calling it rape now. There’s no reason to cover my head. There’s no reason I shouldn’t say what I know.”Jessica Knoll (@JessMKnoll)For 17 years I was too ashamed to share this. Today I am not ashamed. Proud to tell #WhatIKnow https://t.co/m2HFDgfIAzMarch 29, 2016Knoll told the New York Times that she was compelled to write the essay after readers wrote to her saying they had survived similar experiences. “I was so conditioned to not talk about it that it didn’t even occur to me to be forthcoming,” she said. “I want to make people feel like they can talk about it, like they don’t have to be ashamed of it.”Reese Witherspoon has optioned the film rights for the novel, which sold more than 450,000 copies, and was on best-seller lists for four months. Knoll has written the screenplay.For information and support in the US, call 800 656 HOPE (4673), in the UK, contact Rape Crisis, in Australia, call 1800 RESPECT