The French actor and film-maker Julie Delpy has apologised for suggesting that women face a tougher time in Hollywood than African Americans during a discussion at the Sundance film festival.In a statement to Entertainment Weekly, the two-time Oscar nominee said she had never intended to dismiss the hardship of others while appearing on a public panel with co-stars Kieran Culkin, Danny DeVito in support of the Todd Solondz comedy Wiener-Dog.Wiener-Dog review – Gerwig, Delpy and DeVito, united by a dachshund, divided by Solondz “I’m very sorry for how I expressed myself,” Delpy said. “It was never meant to diminish the injustice done to African American artists or to any other people that struggle for equal opportunities and rights; on the contrary. All I was trying to do is to address the issues of inequality of opportunity in the industry for women as well (as I am a woman). I never intended to underestimate anyone else’s struggle! We should stay alert and united and support each other to change this unfair reality and don’t let anyone sabotage our common efforts by distorting the truth.”Delpy added: “Again I’m so sorry for this unfortunate misunderstanding, people who know me, know very well that I can’t stand inequality and injustice of any kind.”Julie Delpy on Hollywood: 'I sometimes wish I were African American' The film-maker’s initial comments came during an interview at the Wrap’s Sundance interview studio on Friday at the height of the furore over all-white lists of Oscar nominees and Hollywood’s ongoing diversity deficit.She said: “Two years ago, I said something about the Academy being very white male, which is the reality, and I was slashed to pieces by the media. It’s funny — women can’t talk. I sometimes wish I were African American because people don’t bash them afterward.”Delpy continued, as Culkin placed his head in his hand: “It’s the hardest to be a woman. Feminists is something people hate above all. Nothing worse than being a woman in this business. I really believe that.”Charlotte Rampling: I regret that Oscars racism comment was 'misinterpreted' Oscar nominee Charlotte Rampling also clarified her position on diversity on Saturday after drawing widespread condemnation for comments in which she said the current debate over diversity, and threats by African American industry powerhouses such as Jada Pinkett Smith, Will Smith and Spike Lee to boycott next month’s ceremony, were “racist to white people”. In a statement to CBS News Rampling said her comments, made in an interview with French radio on Friday, had been “misinterpreted”. She continued: “I simply meant to say that in an ideal world every performance will be given equal opportunities for consideration. Diversity in our industry is an important issue that needs to be addressed. I am highly encouraged by the changes announced today by the Academy to diversify its membership.”On Friday, the body that runs the Oscars, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, pledged to double the number of female and minority members by 2020.