Hometown: Birmingham.The lineup: Blackash 1, Blackash 2, Blackash 3, Blackash 4, Blackash 5, sometimes Blackash 6.The background: Not much is known about Blackash, AKA BL▲CK▲SH, other than that they “spell” their name with capital letters and black filled-out triangles, and they don’t want to reveal themselves individually. “We’re incognito,” says one of them, describing himself as “a representative” of Blackash. “There are five or six members in our collective of creatives,” he adds vaguely. “We all have alternative ‘positions’ and that’s why we don’t want to draw attention to who we are as people, just as musicians. Some of us are involved in the music industry as artists, making different styles of music to what this sounds like …” Indeed, he explains that the collective includes within their ranks a “space-rock producer”, an “acid house pioneer”, a “dark lord of the drum’n’bass club scene”, the “driving force of a far eastern sleaze-rock outfit and “a shape-shifting couturier prophet”. Most importantly, though, he says, “We’re all heavy musos.” “Heavy” is the operative word for what Blackash do. Their representative offers one further tidbit of information: they’re from Birmingham. This is a very Birmingham sound. Or at least, Birmingham via Detroit and Düsseldorf. It’s the sound of hard, heavy rock at its sludgiest – Sabbath at their blackest – with a dose of Stooges riffing and the twin motorik propulsions of techno and krautrock. It’s acid rock meets acid house, drenched in “ambience and psychedelic filth” as him from Blackash puts it. But it’s the sheer molten blackness of it all that stays with you. As he says: “Coming from Birmingham, it’s hard to pick up an instrument and not sound really dirty and gritty.”The members met at the Lunar festival, in the Warwickshire village where Nick Drake is buried, at a club night called Sensateria, about a year ago. They soon started work on the Black Witch EP, involving themselves in every aspect of its creation. The vinyl iteration comes “in the blackest card available to man”, using the paper left over from the printing of a Jimmy Page tome. So intent were Blackash on getting every detail of their EP right, they are losing money on every one of the 333 copies they have printed. “Each one cost us £15 to make, so it’s not a great plan,” he says, agreeing that as business models go, it makes the famous Blue Monday farrago look prudent by comparison. “It is,” he stresses, however, “a great piece of art.” It also comes with a wrap – not a drug one, although God knows the music has the swirling, narcotic atmosphere of music made by people familiar with the rules and rituals of drug-taking – inside which is black ash hand-picked, apparently, from a crater of Mount Etna.We have never met any of Blackash, but when asked whether they resemble Hawkwind circa 1972, their rep immediately replies, “Yeah, definitely.” He tells us the collective – “shamanic psychedelic warriors” to a man – are as “into numbers and mathematics” as they are music. “Music is wave forms,” he (sort of) elucidates. “Even reverb and delay, it’s all to do with numbers. Bass frequencies are low numbers, treble frequencies are high numbers. We like to explore mathematics.” So why 333? “It’s nothing to do with 666,” he cautions. “It’s to do with what time you go to bed.”Really, though, it’s do with the music. From the EP, Black Witch is 10 minutes of fuzztone, heads-down, no-nonsense, mindless drone-rock, like a loop of Loop playing one-chord biker boogie for all eternity. Mesmeric is one word for it. The singer intones balefully about “losing all sense of time and space” and seeing visions of a woman who appears to have “crawled out a hole in the ground”, but it turns out it’s a song – as most rock songs tend to be – about a love affair turned sour and a woman who “done him wrong” (actually, the song’s chord progression is a simple, conventional blues one, even if in terms of pace it’s pure motorik). Mediation Number 3 (which lasts a presumably significant 3:33) is a showcase for all those bass and treble frequencies, shifting liquidly between space-rock and electronica, its ambience quite churchy. Anthropocene could be the Stooges in 1969 or Spacemen 3 in 1989, its intimations of the apocalypse tapping nicely into current global developments, where danger is a Dionysian pleasure, or something. Finally, there’s Mediation Number 9, another 3.33 of motorik madness, the fuzzy deep bass growl providing the EP’s signature sound, its leitmotif. So why Blackash?“It’s just a feeling with our group of people,” says our man from the Midlands. “It’s dirty, from the street. Real. Let’s see where it goes. This is five or six people who had a special moment, did a high five and decided to go on a journey. Let’s see where that takes us. We just know it will be somewhere good.” The buzz: “Skull-crushing psych thrills” – Clash magazine. The truth: It’s Dudley via Detroit and Düsseldorf. Most likely to: Join a biker gang. Least likely to: Join Byker Grove. What to buy: Black Witch EP out on Swordfish Records available via all good records shops and www.black-ash.co.uk. File next to: Loop, Hawkwind, Can, Goat. Links: black-ash.co.uk/Ones to watch: Park Hotel, Elsa Camona, Islet, Phobophobes, Dark Globes. 