Someone’s going to dream about this.Head in the second house, the bodycentered: a brick, a bar,equidistant from two gringos.We were about to go somewhere elsewhen an alarm began to signalanother reality:“In that photo”—it tells me— “fixthe pit stains on my shirt.”Climate change is listeningto summer’s hit songin the winter.A word like antiretroviralin even the most visionary poem.Age’s paralyzing venom.The days, a perfect successionof trial and error.Those flares at the endof eight year-old handsgesturing toward a star-filled sky.In my memory of abuela Belén’s house –Puntarenas 1973–the dog sniffs our crotches(maybe I’m remembering this all wrong)and at the same time the sound of a trainis invisible as the crickets.If nothing else, there’s still scienceand the drilling of mosquitosupsetting another sweaty night’s sleep.Social democracy – the rallying,those flags, youleaning half your body outof that Datsun 120Y.Margarine on a piece of toastdunked in a cup of coffee.The drizzle like infinitesimal pinpricks,the sensation of __________.That’s where the clouds arrangethemselves in formation,the sky’s own stone pathin motion above our heads.Farther on, bladesenormous and slowlose their synchronization.We had to take the long way back.Someone was humminga song – was it you?I think it was you–unlearning the lyricsbecause we’d made up our own,and from the backseat,the smell of rotisserie chickencame on in waves.In my mind, the child asksHow much longer?And in slow motion, the flaredarts across the sky untilit’s swallowed by the star-filled night.You can see a few lights now.There.See them?***** Translated from the Spanish by Julia Guez and Samantha ZighelboimLuis Chaves (Costa Rica, 1969) is a poet, novelist, chronicler and translator. Chaves’ works have been published in Costa Rica, Mexico, Argentina, Spain, Germany, Italy and Slovenia. His work has been awarded the National Poetry Prize by Ministry of Culture, Costa Rica, 2012. The Akademie Schloss Stuttgart in Germany awarded him the “Jean Jacques Rousseau” grant in 2011. He was a 2015 fellow for the Artists in Berlin Program.Julia Guez has received a Master of Fine Arts from Columbia University, a Fulbright Fellowship and the “Discovery”/ Boston Review Poetry Prize. Her work has recently appeared in POETRY, Circumference, PEN Poetry Series and Apogee. Guez works at Teach For America-New York and lives with her family in Greenpoint. She teaches creative writing at Rutgers University.Samantha Zighelboim’s poems and translations have appeared or are forthcoming in POETRY, Boston Review, PEN Poetry Series, Fanzine, Circumference: A Journal of Poetry in Translation, and Stonecutter, among others. She is working on her first collection of poems, as well as co-translating the work of Costa Rican poet Luis Chaves with the writer Julia Guez. She teaches creative writing at Rutgers University, and lives in New York City.