At 6.25am, on 25 December 2015, UKTV channel Yesterday’s Christmas offering started, as it meant to go on, with episode one of the famously cheerless documentary serial, The World At War. Around 10am, as the breakfast champagne sparkled, the Dunkirk evacuation was under way. Things were rounded off at 10pm with a documentary on the Nuremberg trials. All of which is perfectly fine. After all, not everyone wants their post-Christmas dinner comedown accompanied by a Call The Midwife special. In the festive TV landscape, there’s surely room for a drop of bile in the eggnog.So what are your options this year, if you can’t let go of your 2016 angst for even one day? Inexplicably, no one seems to be showing Threads on a loop. But still, help is at hand. Pulp thriller Quarry isn’t actually airing on Christmas Day but the entire series is available online shortly after the first episode’s broadcast. Quarry has what you need. You miserable swine.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest As we meet Mac Conway, he’s knee-deep in filthy water. His bedraggled moustache/mullet combo gives him the look of a forlorn otter in a nature doc, about to face a nest of hungry cubs after a failed hunting expedition. Mac’s own hunting expedition hasn’t failed, though. He finishes off his human prey with a slug to the head, drags the stiff into the water and slings him into the deep. But the corpse has snagged on a branch so Mac must wade out again, hoisting the body into oblivion once and for all. Finally, he’s done. All in a day’s work.Never mind the baubles: why the best Christmas films are darker than December How did Mac get here? Quarry is set in 1972 and based on a series of novels by Max Allan Collins. Mac (balefully portrayed by Logan Marshall-Green) has a look redolent of an era when lavish facial hair meant Vietnam and bad acid rather than London Fields and a moderately successful career as a freelance graphic designer. Mac is back in Memphis from the war. While in ’Nam he was allegedly involved in some unspeakable atrocity. He does his best to reintegrate into domesticity but, soon, he’s harshing his wife Joni’s buzz with his brooding, his flying off the handle and his tendency to have flashbacks involving dead Viet Cong whenever he and Joni frolic in the pool that the less-troubled Mac built with his own hands in happier times.Still, his new skill set has opened up one opportunity. Mac is visited by The Broker, played by the fearsome Peter Mullan, a man whose career has been conspicuously devoid of appearances in Christmas specials. Can Mac be persuaded to pay a few late-night visits to a few guys who won’t be missed? Of course he can.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Welcome home… QuarryIt’s currently tempting to filter every depiction of beaten-up small-town America through the grotesque prism of Donald Trump. And that narrative of betrayal, nihilism and self-destructiveness is present in Quarry if you want it. But, actually, Quarry is nothing more nor less than smart, hardboiled crime drama in the tradition of Rectify or True Detective, with a hint of Breaking Bad’s morality play on weakness under duress. And, as with True Detective’s Rust Cohle, it’s amazing what unknowable psychedelic horror can languish behind a straggly moustache and a pair of dead eyes.So, unknowable psychedelic horror. Sometimes at Christmas it’s all you’ve got. Somewhere in the house, your in-laws are putting on sweatshirts decorated with reindeer. The Queen is about to address the nation. Sneak off and give Quarry a try. You know you want to.Quarry airs Wednesday, Sky Atlantic, 9pm; the full series is available on demand from Wednesday