Che Guevara: Goodbye to All ThatWhen, shortly after the triumph of the Castro revolution, Ernesto Guevara took over the direction of the Cuban National Bank, he had the great wisdom to invite me to Havana to discuss how what had been a millenarian movement, albeit one with anarcho-syndicalist overtones in the larger cities, might be transformed into a mature internationalist government that could avoid the excesses of Stalinist or Maoist oppression. Welcoming me into his office, Che mixed several mojitos – a vastly overrated cocktail, though more of that later – and offered me a cohiba, hand-rolled by Fidel, before allowing me to lament some of his romantic adventurism and digress on the inevitability of American involvement in Vietnam. Broadly speaking, Jon Lee Anderson’s above-pedestrian biography of Che includes most of these salient points, so in the absence of my having got round to writing my own definitive work, I have only a few reservations in recommending it. (New York Review of Books, 1997)Orwell’s List It is easy enough for me to say that George Orwell was essentially right about the three great 20th-century issues of fascism, Stalinism and empire because I have never knowingly been wrong about anything. With regard to the so-called list (la trahison des clercs) of communist names that Paul Lashmar and James Oliver allege Orwell handed over to the authorities in their tawdry, ill-researched book, I have only this to say. The list that they claim to have found was in fact discovered by Bernard Crick in 1980 and yet in both a defiantly physical and metaphyiscal way there can be no claim for this list to have been created qua list. Notice the date of this, for it bears remembering that, in 1948 when Orwell had the pleasure of my assistance in removing the inconsistencies and infelicities of the final draft of Nineteen Eighty-Four, he also took time to show me the list of names and was able to receive my assurance that it most definitely was not a list. (NYRB, 2002)Salman Rushdie: Hobbes in the Himalayas Take any writing instrument that comes to hand, strike out the word “Palestine” and insert “Kashmir”. This may seem a banal and literal way in which to introduce a quasi-complex and almost intriguing work of fiction, but I make no excuse for it as les mots justes can only be considered banal by those endowed with endogenous banality. The master theme of Rushdie’s book is tragedy, both in the Attic sense of the fatal flaw and in the Hegelian sense of a conflict of rights, though whether the author is himself aware of the dialectical tension which I have so acutely observed must be taken on trust. In any case, he deserves credit for making the subconscious conscious and for that he is to be congratulated almost as much as me. (Atlantic, 2003) God does not exist. If he did, he surely would have requested an interview with the world's finest essayist Bah, Humbug I used to harbor (please note the intentional dropping of the U in this word for I consider my Americanization, ditto the Z, to be all but complete now that I have satisfied the formalities of Homeland security) a desire to write just one definitive, annihilating anti-Christmas column. But then I thought, why should not the world’s most expensive essayist – and one who has yet to be found wanting or incorrect on any subject – not be paid for writing dozens of articles debunking the mawkish sentimentality that overwhelms much of the political and cultural sphere from November through January. The prima facie case against Christmas is this: God does not exist. If he did, he would surely have requested an interview with the world’s finest essayist. I have received no such request, ergo he does not exist. Though if he did, I should imagine he would be not unlike Kim Jong-Il. Happy holiday. (Slate 1999-2011)Blood for No Oil! There is no sadder sight in the airless corridors of Washington than the liberal hand-wringing over the war in Iraq – other than, perhaps, that of the hateful Clintons, whose hypocrisy the world counts itself fortunate for me to have exposed, of which more anon. The reductio of the liberal schema is that Saddam Hussein did not possess weapons of mass destruction and that America and the UK prosecuted an illegal war. The absurdity of this position is all too apparent. To ask whether Saddam had WMD is the wrong question: the one the wise man should ask is “Would Saddam quite like to have had WMD?” to which there is only one clear answer. As such, the war against Iraq was one of the noblest wars yet known to man and George Bush the saviour of western liberal values. (Vanity Fair 2003- 2011)Clive James, the Omnivore I opened this book only to slam it shut in exasperation as the author apologised for any confusion between Louis Malle and Milos Forman – an entirely fictive conceit for those of us well-acquainted with the oeuvres of these minor auteurs, that merely allowed him to use the neologism Malle-Formation. Susan Sontag once told me that a polymath is a man who knows everything and nothing else. Not for the first time she was close, but no cigar – for James is merely a polymath manque, a man who wraps a veneer of learning in a well-turned phrase with a top layer of humour. There can be only one true global polymath and that is me: I know much more than James about everything and could be a lot funnier than him if I really wanted to be. So there. (Vanity Fair, 2007)Digested read, digested: I write therefore I’m right.