Anomalisa review: sex and depression in Charlie Kaufman's superb stop-motion breakdown It’s 2005, and Michael Stone (David Thewlis), a corporate motivational speaker, arrives in Cincinnati, a town he hasn’t visited since he lived there 10 years ago. He rides in a taxi, spends the night in a hotel, contacts an old lover (disastrously), meets a new one (more promisingly, but…), drinks, talks, has sex, falls in something like love, goes home and wonders what it was all about.What Charlie Kaufman’s Anomalisa is all about is the sterility, emptiness and screamingly predictable tedium of modern life, and the inability of people to connect with one another. The twist? It’s all done in stop-motion animation with creepily realistic 3D-printed human protagonists, all of whom have sectional, doll-like faces that look as if they might easily fall off; which, in one nightmare sequence, does actually happen.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Furthering the sense of sameness is the film’s cleverest device: with one exception, all the voices we hear apart from Thewlis’s are performed by one actor, the intensely creative Tom Noonan (you may remember him as Wild Bill in Manhunter and the guy with the bespoke bank heist in Heat). One almost identical voice – not just one actor, but a single voice – for every man, woman or child who appears on or off screen: the airline pilot, the stewardess, the taxi driver, room service, the ex-girlfriend… Indeed, the movie opens on a blank dark screen with a tidal tumult of Noonan voices overlaid on top of each other in a wash of soundtrack sameness, until Thewlis’s voice finally fights its way out of the babble.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: AllstarThe only other exception is Lisa (Jennifer Jason Leigh), a customer services rep who’s read Michael’s self-help book and thinks he’s a rock star. She alone can reach through the carapace of forced politeness that covers his inner rage, despair and turmoil. And yes, it’s a puppet movie with full-frontal male nudity, awkward sex and even cunnilingus. The chemistry between Michael and Lisa is touching and intermittently lovely, but he, and we, can tell it must necessarily be fleeting. Yet, while it lasts, it is entrancing, especially when Lisa, in a magical interlude, sings Cyndi Lauper’s Girls Just Wanna Have Fun, in a quavering, lilting voice, first in English, then in Italian.Masters of puppets: Charlie Kaufman and the subversive allure of stop-motion The main drawback is the all-encompassing, Eeyore-like totality of Michael’s unhappiness, which at times threatens to suffocate the movie. What I’ve noticed about Kaufman’s movies as director (here he’s co-director with animation boss Duke Johnson) is that they lack the sardonic bounciness of moves directed by others from his screenplays, including my own favourite, Michel Gondry’s Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind. Kaufman’s worldview is courageously bleak in ways that other writer-directors would quail at, so he gets points for that. I just don’t know how badly I want it, or how much of it I can take.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Behind the scenes of Anomalisa