It is that time of year again, when those with Glastonbury tickets begin to fill rucksacks with hand sanitiser and head torches, and those without prepare social media missives about how great it is to be in close proximity to a bidet and bath. We have just the competition for those who would rather be in the former category. We’re giving readers the chance to enter a draw to win one of 15 pairs of tickets to this year’s Glastonbury festival. Every day that you buy the Guardian between now and 14 May, you can receive an entry into the prize draw. For a chance of winning, follow these steps:Step 1: Register for your barcode here.Step 2: Ask your shopkeeper to scan your barcode when you buy the Guardian and the Observer.Step 3: Be entered into the prize draw each day you make a purchase using your barcode.Terms and Conditions: The Readers Glastonbury Ticket Prize DrawThe Readers Glastonbury Ticket Prize Draw (the “Prize Draw”) is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.The Prize Draw is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News & Media Limited (“GNM” or the “Promoter”), their group companies or family members, freelance contributors to GNM, or anyone else connected to the Prize Draw.Entrants into the Prize Draw shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions.To enter the Prize Draw you must enter your details at theguardian.com/win-glastonbury-2017 to register for an entry barcode and then use it when you purchase a copy of the Guardian and/or the Observer. If you have any questions about how to enter or otherwise in connection with the Prize Draw, please email promotions@theguardian.com with “Readers Glastonbury Ticket Prize Draw” in the subject line.Maximum one entry per person per day. Each purchase of a copy of the Guardian or the Observer, using the voucher registered online, provides the purchaser with a ballot into the prize draw. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your prize draw entry to us. The winners shall be the owners of the email address or mobile number from which the selected winning entries are sent.GNM accepts no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt by GNM.The Prize Draw opens on Monday 1 May 2017 and closes at 23:59 on Sunday 14 May 2017. Entries received outside this time period will not be considered.The winners will receive a pair of tickets to Glastonbury festival 2017. There will be 15 winners. Only one winner per household. GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize that are not expressly included in the prize.The winners will be selected by way of a random draw from all entries received in accordance with these terms and conditions. The draw will take place on or after 15 May 2017.The winners will be notified by email or SMS on or after 15 May 2017 and given details of how to claim their prize. If a winner does not respond to GNM within 14 days of being notified of their win, the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner in accordance with the process described above (and that winner will have to respond to notification of their win within 14 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If a winner rejects their prize or the entry is invalid or in breach of these terms the winner’s prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.The prizes will be sent to the winners by 9 June 2017.The name and county of the winner[s] can be obtained after 15 May 2017 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: MMCR, Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU.The prizes are non-exchangeable, non-transferable and not redeemable for cash or any other prize.GNM reserves the right to substitute the prize with an alternative prize of similar value in the event that the original prize offered is not available.The winners may be required to take part in promotional activity related to the Prize Draw and the winners shall participate in such activity on the Promoter’s reasonable request. The winners consent to the use by the Ppromoter and its related companies, both before and after the closing date of the Prize Draw for an unlimited time, of the winner’s voice, image, photograph and name for publicity purposes (in any medium, including still photographs and films, and on the internet, including any websites hosted by the Promoter and its related companies) and in advertising, marketing or promotional material without additional compensation or prior notice and, in entering the Prize Draw, all entrants consent to the same.The Promoter shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the Prize Draw, you agree to the collection, retention, usage and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your Prize Draw entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 12 above.GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Prize Draw or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person’s computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Prize Draw. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury resulting from its negligenceGNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Prize Draw with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its reasonable control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters relating to the Prize Draw is final and no correspondence will be entered into.GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations relating to this Prize Draw where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.The Prize Draw and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and entrants to the Prize Draw submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.Promoter: Guardian News & Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.