1 | The Creation of AdamMichelangelo (1511)For its first 1,200 years, Christianity followed the line in John’s gospel that stated, “No one has ever seen God” and avoided portraying him. Relaxation of the rule came when he was shown as first a hand, then a face cloaked in cloud, but the Renaissance knew no such restraint. In one of his frescoed panels for the Sistine Chapel ceiling, Michelangelo’s Creation of Adam contains the most reproduced full-body image of God of all time. He is a benign, white-haired, bearded figure, clothed in a loose white robe, stretching out his finger to a naked Adam and so – as the Book of Genesis tells in the creation story – breathing life into him.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alanis Morissette as God in Dogma.2 | Alanis Morissettein Dogma (1999)Casting women as God retains a strong contemporary kick when some patriarchal branches of Christianity still refuse to ordain females, but having the Canadian singer Alanis Morissette as the Almighty was more than a token gesture in Dogma, Kevin Smith’s irreverent comedy about two fallen angels trying to get back into heaven. Cradle Catholic Morissette, appearing in the wake of the global popularity of her album Jagged Little Pill, had already registered her interest in matters of faith in her song lyrics. Her female God is largely silent (a raven-haired, bewinged Alan Rickman does the talking for her), but she still manages to impose her will and perform the odd miracle.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   God as a drunk: The Granton Star Cause. Photograph: Channel 43 | The Granton Star CauseIrvine Welsh (1994)In this lewd short story, part of The Acid House collection, Irvine Welsh – to the horror of many Christians – renders God as a foul-mouthed Edinburgh drunk, worn out by humanity’s insistence on blaming him for everything that goes wrong in their lives. Behind the effing and blinding and earthy setting, however, The Granton Star Cause poses serious questions about free will and the limits of God’s patience. After the success of the 1996 film adaptation of Welsh’s novel Trainspotting, The Acid House was also made into a film. When Channel 4 broadcast it in 1998, Mary Whitehouse attempted to have it banned on the grounds of blasphemy.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   William Blake’s The Ancient of Days. Photograph: Alamy4 | The Ancient of DaysWilliam Blake (1794)The visionary poet, painter and printmaker created his own elaborate mythology, but this image – taken from a phrase in the Book of Daniel and traditionally seen in western Christianity as referring to the creative powers and perfection of God – still registers as a strikingly modern take on the divine more than two centuries later. A watercolour etching, originally for a cover illustration, the circle design with a crouching figure set against a cloud backdrop, retains its power to encapsulate a hard-to-define force that transcends the usual barriers around religion.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Morgan Freeman and Jim Carrey in Bruce Almighty. Photograph: Everett/Rex/Shutterstock5 | Morgan Freemanin Bruce Almighty (2003)Having been fixed by Christianity in our collective imagination as an elderly white man, God always makes a bigger splash when portrayed by a black actor. And never more so than with Morgan Freeman’s portrait in Bruce Almighty and its 2007 sequel Evan Almighty. This is a mellow God, wise enough to grant Jim Carrey’s Bruce Nolan his wish to play God, and then be there when he buckles under the strain of running the world. Freeman’s award-winning role is helped along mightily by him having the sort of voice that lends itself naturally to pronouncing infallibly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hitting the high notes: The Good Old Bad Old Days. Photograph: ANL/Rex/Shutterstock6 | The Good Old Bad Old Days (1972)The devil, it is said, has all the best tunes, but not, for once, in The Good Old Bad Old Days where God manages to hit a few high notes. This musical, written by Leslie Bricusse and Anthony Newley (the second Mr Joan Collins) in an attempt to repeat their earlier Broadway triumph of Stop the World, I Want to Get Off, had a decent six-month run in the West End. It is built around the conceit of an ageing God, exhausted by the devil’s tricks, singing of his plans to retire, but persuaded to stay on after reliving some of humanity’s happier historical tableaux.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sir Ralph Richardson as God in Time Bandits. Photograph: Snap Stills/Rex/Shutterstock7 | Sir Ralph Richardsonin Time Bandits (1981)Everyone has their own image of God, some of them more akin to the cruel and vengeful character of the Old Testament narratives, but there is something seductively comforting about Ralph Richardson’s portrait of the Supreme Being in Terry Gilliam’s bizarre fantasy Time Bandits. He is your archetypal, utterly reasonable, besuited English civil servant of mature years, gently but firmly attempting to bring order and logic to a crazy universe.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Brian Glover as God in The Mysteries at the National Theatre Photograph: Michael Mayhew National Theatre8 | Brian Gloverin The Mysteries (1977)God was rarely seen on stage before the modern period, save in the medieval mystery plays, which brought the Bible alive for illiterate folk in often raucous street performances. The opening part of the cycle was usually the creation and gave God got top billing. This tradition was maintained in The Mysteries, Bill Bryden’s award-laden version at the National Theatre in the early 1980s, where God was played by the bald Yorkshireman Brian Glover, putting the building blocks of the world into place from atop a forklift truck – a reference by the adaptor, Tony Harrison, to the habit of different medieval trade guilds taking ownership of each part of the mystery play cycle.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mephisto in front of God and the three archangels, drawn by August von Kreling in Goethe’s Faust. Photograph: Chronicle/Alamy Stock Photo9 | Faust, parts one and twoGoethe (1772-1775)Though God’s role is little more than a cameo in a work that took 60 years to complete and requires about 20 hours on stage if done in one sitting, it is undeniably a reassuring one. While Faust is busy succumbing to the wiles of the devilish Mephistopheles, God up in heaven, surrounded by angels, remains confident that his erring servant will eventually come good. And in part two – reputedly the harder section to perform – that confidence is eventually borne out, albeit only after this benign God has shown plenty of generosity of spirit and that most underrated of Christian virtues, forgiveness. “Man errs,” Goethe’s God concludes, “till he has ceased to strive.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Groucho Marx, right, as God in Skidoo.10 | Groucho MarxSkidoo (1968)In what was his last ever screen role, Groucho Marx plays a bonkers gangster boss called God, with near mystical powers, who is seduced by 60s counterculture, dons Hare Krishna robes and a Hawaiian-style flower necklace, and comes out as a hippy after having his first puff of marijuana. “Mmm, pumpkin,” he mutters as he reaches a spiritual high. Despite its stellar cast, Harry Nilsson soundtrack and Otto Preminger direction, Skidoo was panned on release – Marx labelled it “god-awful” and Preminger’s estate subsequently tried to bury it – but of late this oddball comedy has attracted a “so bad it’s good” cult following.