“Whosoever could do the most incredible thing was to have the king’s daughter and half of his Kingdom.” So begins The Most Incredible Thing, the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale that inspired Justin Peck’s most recent project, a new work for New York City Ballet. It’s a classic fairytale scenario: a kingdom and a contest, with a princess’s hand in the balance.The 28-year-old, California-born choreographer, whose first dance dates back only eight years, has risen quickly to the top ranks of the American ballet scene. But New York City Ballet, where he is a soloist and choreographer-in-residence, is his home. The Most Incredible Thing, which opens as part of a mixed bill on Tuesday, will be his 10th work for the company. It is, however, the first time he has tried his hand at telling a story through dance.It’s not surprising that he hasn’t gone down the narrative path before, given that his entire career has taken place under the long shadow of George Balanchine, the co-founder of City Ballet and its affiliated school. Balanchine is best known for works like Agon and Concerto Barocco that did away with characters, plot, sets, and conventional costumes. As he repeatedly proved, music and steps could create their own compelling stories.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest For a time after his death in 1983, especially in the United States, it seemed as if narrative ballet had gone permanently out of fashion. In addition to everything else, articulating a series of events without words is no easy task. As the professor of dance history and criticism Mindy Aloff recently put it, “it’s very hard to devise the step-by-step logic to tell a story coherently. You’re working on several levels: the narrative and gestural logic of the story, the formal logic of the choreography.”The classic story ballets, like Swan Lake and Giselle, used detailed mime to explain whatever couldn’t be illustrated through dancing. But the language of mime is something of a lost art. Some choreographers have managed all the same. Frederick Ashton found his own silent language, a mixture of pure movement and evocative gesture, in ballets like Fille Mal Gardée and A Month in the Country. More contemporary choreographers such as Matthew Bourne, Christopher Wheeldon and Alexei Ratmansky have developed their own ways to convey plot and emotion. Bourne prefers a naturalistic approach, while Wheeldon has opted for a more stylized palette. Ratmansky is somewhere in the middle.In fact, as these names suggest, story ballets have begun to make something of a comeback. (“It goes in waves,” Ratmansky told me a few years ago.) Which brings us back to Peck and The Most Incredible Thing. Interestingly, the young choreographer didn’t set out to make a narrative work, but as he began to discuss possibilities with his collaborators – the composer Bryce Dessner (also guitarist with the National) and visual artist Marcel Dzama – the idea took shape. Given his past experience with the company, Peck finally felt ready: “I’ve built up to a point where I really understand the institution,” he says, “all the departments and how they interact with each other.” The challenge, then, is to find the right story.The Andersen tale, only about two pages long, is, in many ways, a perfect vehicle for such a project: short, relatively straightforward, and loaded with images. “It’s not like we’re translating Shakespeare,” Peck says with a laugh. It’s about a young man who wins a contest by inventing a clock which, on the hour, produces lifelike figures. As they emerge, they re-enact various scenes: Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, the muses, the seasons. Each scene offers the perfect excuse for a dance, a kind of tableau vivant with movement.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Justin Peck takes to the barre. Photograph: Courtesy/Rex/ShutterstockBut the tale also contains a darker message. Just as the young inventor is about to claim his prize, a rival appears and smashes everything to bits, arguing that his act of destruction is, in itself, an extraordinary feat. “It felt very relevant to our time,” said Peck, “when terrorists are destroying great works of art. I think it contains an important message about how art can be fleeting and ephemeral. That ephemerality is a big part of dance, as well.” (Coincidentally, the story was also made into a ballet five years ago at Sadlers Wells in London with choreography by Javier de Frutos and music by the Pet Shop Boys.)The one-act ballet opens with a soliloquy by the protagonist, portrayed on alternating nights by the dancers Taylor Stanley and Tyler Angle. It includes a bit of mime, some of it recognizable from 19th-century works like Swan Lake. There are nods to other ballets, as well, a pas de deux reminiscent of Sleeping Beauty, a sunburst pattern that recalls Balanchine’s Apollo, a whiff of Firebird. Peck has snuck in a more obscure homage, to the early 20th-century modern dancer Loie Fuller, known for her use of billowing garments, which fluttered and swirled around her when she danced. But, for all its gestures toward the past, the ballet is very recognizably a work of the present, fast-paced, streamlined, full of oblique movement and fluid patterns that morph seamlessly from one shape to the next. Men partner men, women partner women, and not a minute is wasted.Such economy was possible because of the closeness of the collaboration between Peck and his designer (Dzama) and composer (Dessner). Dzama, a Canadian artist whose work includes dreamlike drawings and dioramas populated by tiny figures arranged in dance-like poses, cites the early 20th-century avant-gardists Francis Picabia and Oskar Schlemmer as influences. (Both artists designed for the ballet stage.) “My drawings are like little stages,” he recently told a reporter. It is his first ballet; in fact, before meeting Peck he had never even been to the ballet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Peck off duty: there’s a ‘moment in any artist’s life when he has to take a risk and put his idea out there’. Photograph: Slaven Vlasic/Getty ImagesIn addition to founding the National, Dessner also composed for the score to The Revenant. He is also a collector of folk melodies, which often find their way into his work. The score for The Most Incredible Thing, his second collaboration with Peck, includes two of these, traditional Scandinavian tunes which he has blended into the orchestral texture. (One, a Danish wedding song, can be heard during the first extended pas de deux between the Creator and the Princess.) The three creators worked together intensively over the course of 18 months, developing a treatment of the story and exchanging ideas via Skype, email, and dinners. Says Dessner: “We thought about how long each movement would be, the musical ideas that might work, the musical language; it was extremely collaborative.” Many ideas were thrown out along the way, including Dzama’s suggestion that some of the dancers wear masks – which they ultimately deemed too distracting and too hard to dance in.Out of this collaboration came 43 minutes of music, two colorful backdrops, and a vast array of fantastical costumes – including one that is meant to be worn by two dancers at once. There will be 56 people onstage, including 11 kids from the company school. Many of them will carry props, which present their own choreographic challenges. “I had to learn how to partner with one hand,” Amar Ramasar, whose character, the destroyer, carries a club, said recently at a preview at the Guggenheim Museum. This is one of the most elaborate productions the New York City Ballet has undertaken in the last decade, and one of the most expensive. (Another reason why companies are often wary of story ballets: they cost a lot of money.) It’s a gamble, but one with a potentially big reward. The thing is, people like stories.“It’s about that moment in any artist’s life when he has to take a risk and put his idea out there,” Peck said of Andersen’s tale at a preview of the ballet at the Guggenheim. He could just as easily have been talking about himself.