Your correspondent Crispin Woodhead refers to the existence of organisations “aiming to make music an open door” despite the inequalities that exist for engagement (Letters, 3 April). We have just seen the completion of the 2017 Harrogate competitive festival for music, speech and drama, now in its 82nd year. Over three weekends, almost 1,000 (mainly young) people performed at Harrogate High School for very appreciative audiences. They all got the chance to perform in public and to receive a professional adjudication. Many performers return every year and it is heartwarming to see them develop their confidence and abilities, and their love of the arts. The festival is part of the British and International Federation of Festivals for Music, Dance and Speech, and in 2017 there will be at least eight similar events in this part of the UK, with many more across the country. They are mainly run by volunteers trying “to keep the flag flying”.Alan ConnellHarrogate, North Yorkshire • Christina Patterson thinks “critical thinking, willingness to question and presenting ideas” are only learned from the arts (A dance to kickstart the UK economy, 31 March), yet that’s exactly what we teach young scientists to do too. This artificial dichotomy is part of the problem, not part of the solution.Professor Paul BatesSchool of Geographical Sciences, University of BristolThe arts have a fundamental place in education | Letters • I was very pleased to read Catherine Burke’s letter (1 April) reminding us of the work of the late Sir Alec Clegg. I was fortunate enough to be educated in the West Riding of Yorkshire during his tenure at the education authority, and not only were my educational prospects greatly enhanced but I have had a lifetime of enjoyment of the arts, particularly music and theatre, as a result. I should like to thank him, and the inspiring teachers who worked under him, for opening up new vistas, for me and for many others.Dr Hilary FraserSwallowfield, Berkshire • You report that the BBC has been ordered to spend more on programmes outside London (30 March). How times have changed. In 1985, as director of a local arts association hosting a visit by the Royal Shakespeare Company, I was interviewed by an ITV journalist and commented how encouraging it was to see Arts Council funds being spent in the regions rather than the capital. The interview was pulled on the grounds that they weren’t prepared to sponsor a party political broadcast.Austen LynchGarstang, Lancashire • Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters