Full Steam Ahead 8pm, BBC2If you enjoyed the steamier sections of Peter Snow’s Trainspotting Live on BBC4 last week, you’ll love this new slow-and-steady six-parter. The plucky Victorian Farm gang – historian Ruth Goodman, and archaeologists Peter Ginn and Alex Langlands – don period-appropriate overalls to investigate how the steam age changed the UK for ever, beginning in the slate mines of Snowdonia, where they meet a sturdy Welsh pony called Tickle. Graeme VirtueThe Refugee Camp: Our Desert Home 9pm, BBC2At the Zaatari camp in Jordan – home to an estimated 80,000 people – the infrastructure is astonishingly developed. From schools and hospitals to a bakery that produces 90,000 flatbreads a day, it’s a community that is functioning against the odds. In the first of two programmes, we meet the residents of the camp for an intriguing, human study that focuses on survival and hope rather than conflict. Hannah J DaviesThe Investigator: A British Crime Story 9pm, ITVMark Williams-Thomas’s investigation into the 1985 disappearance of Carole Packman continues. The obvious inspirations are US true-crime documentaries The Jinx and Making a Murderer. While this is not quite as polished, the story is no less compelling. Tonight, helped by new interviews and dramatic reconstructions, Williams-Thomas follows up theories that Packman may have vanished of her own accord. Andrew Mueller999: What’s Your Emergency9pm, Channel 4The grace under pressure shown by those who receive the calls is impressive to behold as a third series of this documentary begins. A changing Britain with different demands on its resources is the tacit subject, but tonight’s specific topic is neighbourly disputes. One caller claims someone has moved into his flat, another that someone is frightening children. A serious show that can move between pathos and hilarity in seconds. John RobinsonDon’t Tell the Bride9pm, Sky1A new series of the man-planning-a-wedding show begins with Adam and Bianca, who met on Tinder. While the pregnant bride-to-be dreams of a vintage wedding venue, her hapless groom is eyeing up a leaking warehouse with sand on the floor. The joy is in the clash of attitudes, such as when the groom thinks it’s OK to skimp on the wedding dress. “They all look the same,” he concludes, while across town his bride is misty-eyed over the perfect gown. Hannah VerdierMr Robot 9pm, UniversalMuch celebrated but only this week arriving on UK TV (up to now it’s been exclusive to Amazon Prime), this series about a cyber-security engineer and hacker might sound and look like 21st-century tinfoil hokum, with mavericks taking on evil corporate elites. However, it’s both original and enthralling. Christian Slater co-stars as Mr Robot, who persuades Rami Malek’s Elliot Alderson to join hacktivists seeking to take down ECorp, one of Elliot’s own clients. David StubbsPeggy Guggenheim: Art Addict10pm, BBC4A feature-length but lean biography of the Guggenheim family’s odd one out. The slightly less moneyed Peggy took herself to Paris, then home to New York, then off to Venice, building a reputation for patronising, nurturing and championing modern art’s most important figures, including Jackson Pollock, Marcel Duchamp and her second husband, Max Ernst. Numerous romantic undulations are also mapped out, the question being whether Guggenheim’s priceless collection came at too great a personal cost. Jack SealeFilm choice      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Catherine Deneuve in Potiche. Photograph: c.MarsDistr/Everett/RexPotiche (François Ozon, 2010) 1.35am, Film4There’s an old-fashioned feel to Ozon’s light, 70s-set comedy that’s demi-farce and demi-political satire. Catherine Deneuve stars as Suzanne, the neglected trophy wife of umbrella factory boss Robert (Fabrice Luchini), who is having an affair with his secretary. His arrogance leads to a strike, and when he is taken hostage by the aggrieved workers, Suzanne takes control. Much of the film’s charm is in Deneuve’s affectionate relationship with an ex-lover, now the communist mayor, Gérard Depardieu – the couple’s disco dance is a delight. Paul HowlettThe Triple Echo (Michael Apted, 1972) 9pm, Movies4MenBased on an HE Bates novel, this wartime drama is set up like a farce. Glenda Jackson is a lonely farmer’s wife in Wiltshire who falls for a young soldier (Brian Deacon). When he deserts, she disguises him as her young sister – a fine ruse, until lusty sergeant Oliver Reed shows up. Apted’s restrained direction and sensitive performances make it a strangely persuasive tale. PHLive sportCycling: Tour de France The final time trial is just the 17km, from Sallanches to Megève, but it’s uphill nearly all the way. 1.15pm, Eurosport 1; 2pm, ITV4Major League Baseball: Washington Nationals v Los Angeles Dodgers Coverage of the National League clash from Nationals Park. 5pm, ESPNDarts: World Matchplay The first two quarter-finals from Blackpool’s Winter Gardens. 7pm, Sky Sports 1