Since Serialmania rebooted the medium in 2014, podcasting has got bigger, better and more ubiquitous, with thousands of shows to choose from and more launching every week. Authors such as Bret Easton Ellis, companies like eBay and even a guy reading his dad’s cringe-making erotica have podcasts. It takes something a bit different to stand out from the surfeit – like, say, a podcast hosted by a black woman and featuring a diverse group of musicians, artists and writers, only one of whom will be a white man.“I really wanted it to be a safe space,” Sooo Many White Guys creator Phoebe Robinson tells me down the line from New York. “It’s so rare for a black woman to be interviewed by another black woman, so maybe my guests feel they can be more vulnerable, or more willing to talk about certain things. It’s not like a late-night talk show, when you need to have a funny anecdote but you can’t dig deep.”Sooo Many White Guys: Phoebe Robinson's podcast has killer lineup Funny anecdotes are still very welcome, however. Robinson’s first podcast, 2 Dope Queens, saw her and fellow standup Jessica Williams segue from talking about micro-aggressions – like when they both encountered racist cab drivers in the same week – to gassing about lazy guys on Tinder (“He wrote GM for ‘good morning’; I was like, ‘If you’re not even going to use the whole fucking words …!’”). It also serves as a platform for a diverse range of comics, including Mehran Khagrani, known for gags about being a gay man of Iranian descent, and Indian-American Hari Kondabolu, who Robinson describes as “whip-smart”. Sooo Many White Guys follows a similar formula, with representation and realness as important as hilarity. In the opening episode, Robinson and rapper Lizzo get into the difficulties of being a black woman in the US, but there’s still room for a quick game of “bone, collaborate, ether [diss]” in which Lizzo asks whether she would be allowed to pull the real Tupac or just his hologram. Robinson has also had pal Ilana Glazer of Broad City in the hot seat. The pair met on the standup circuit around seven years ago and Glazer is also the show’s exec producer. “She had this really funny joke about Sex and the City not having any black people, and we just hit it off,” says Robinson now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We just hit it off’ … Robinson with Ilana GlazerAlthough she was obsessed with cartoon misanthrope Daria growing up (2 Dope Queens’ original title was Blaria, or Black Daria), Robinson mentions the “sense of self” she gained from watching black on-screen idols like Will Smith and Nia Long when she was a teenager. Even so, the lack of diversity in showbusiness has been evident to her throughout her career. “I’ve been doing standup for eight years, and it’s an environment that’s mostly straight white males,” she explains. “You’re definitely aware you’re the only woman or person of colour on the lineup. Sometimes you’ll show up in a green room and someone won’t talk to you, then after the show they’ll be like, ‘Oh, you did a good job.’ It can be frustrating.” And then there are the trite casting calls she’s seen as a jobbing actress, like “the sassy friend who’s not that educated”. So she wanted to redress the balance.Was she worried the title of the podcast might put people off? “Some white dudes were definitely upset and were like, ‘Well, what if we called it Too Many Black Dudes?’ And I’m like, ‘Well, “too many” is so different from “so many”.’ I want this show in a funny way – and a direct way – to call out the lack of diversity and inclusivity in most entertainment fields.”Robinson never denigrates white culture, but rather seeks to move beyond the stereotypes of women, ethnic minorities or LGBT people. That’s in addition to talking about the sorts of things that all millennials – regardless of race – can relate to, like working as a put-upon fashion intern (as both she and her latest guest, the trans activist Janet Mock did earlier in their careers ), or watching Beyoncé’s transformation from teen idol to feminist icon. “I want people just to feel like they’re hanging out with friends,” she explains. It’s an olive branch for everyone – white guys included.Listen/subscribe to Sooo Many White Guys on WNYC’s website.