Teleman are the epitome of an independent band. Formed following the split of art-pop group Pete and the Pirates, the quartet have released two critically acclaimed albums, 2014’s Breakfast and this year’s Brilliant Sanity, both through Moshi Moshi. With no wedge of major label cash or big team in place to conjure extravagant social media strategies, artwork or videos, the band – comprising brothers Thomas and Jonny Sanders, Peter Cattermoul, Hiro Amamiya – enlist fewer than 10 people to run their campaigns from start to finish. When they’re not on tour or in the studio, the group have jobs in the creative industries – graphic design, writing jingles. They even sell their gear when times get especially tight. According to Teleman, often quarterly statements from streaming services clock in at about 3p; for a new band in the digital age, with diminishing music publications and limited money to be made, gone are the days of debauchery and recklessness. Being in a band is now like running a small business. So how do Teleman survive in 2016? Below are 10 rules the band follow to ensure a fruitful career in music.Tour manage yourselfThomas Sanders: I think sometimes people are surprised because they see you performing a sold out show, it’s gone so well and then afterwards they’re like, ‘Oh look, they’re loading up their van! And they’re driving themselves! And they’re selling all their own merch! And they don’t have a tour manager!’Peter Cattermoul: We have been in bands for over 10 years and I guess we know how to do that stuff. Until you’ve got a production that’s so big you can’t manage it, you might as well do it on your own.TS: It’s very easy to tour manage yourself once you know all the things you need to do. We know every little thing we need to do as soon as we get to the venue.Be prepared to have no moneyTS: With any band, money is so irregular. You can have bleak periods when nothing is happening for a long time and you’re wondering when and how you’re going to pay the rent, then suddenly you get a big chunk of cash and everything seems great.PC: But it doesn’t last.TS: There’s a constant lingering insecurity that keeps popping its head up. I’m sure there’s a perception in the world still that every band that plays at a festival lives comfortably but I think 90% of the people there are in debt through the process, either to the record label whose invested in them or they’ve invested their own money and time.Run your own social mediaTS: I think posting on social media has to become a strong habit in every band. It needs to become something really ingrained, something you do automatically. I have to make a really concerted effort to remember. JS: We’re not really built on Facebook likes or tweets. We are built on people loving the music. But the more you use social media the more it’s worth something to you. If you just sit on Twitter, if you don’t do anything on Instagram, you don’t get anything back. The more you interact, the more people come.TS: When it’s genuine it really works. We did lots of tweets and Instagram posts of us making our merch and I think had a really good reaction – and we sold lots of it.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest … but don’t mistake likes for longevityTS: I know a guy who bought tens of thousands of Facebook likes for his band. He had this super plan to launch his band and I’m convinced that will never get you anywhere. It’s just hot air.PC: If you haven’t got the actual product – the good music – to back it up then it’s not going to have longevity. Even if you have a flash-in-the-pan success for a moment. TS: You’re basically lying to everybody. You’re lying to yourself, you’re lying to all the people who might be interested in your music. I don’t believe you can build anything meaningful on that foundation.Keep your riderPC: We’re very streamlined with our rider. We’ve got these tupperware boxes that we take it in the van. We’re so organised it’s crazy, it’s like we’re on a camping holiday. Rather than this debauched mess.JS: We’re of a certain age, aren’t we … we’re not kids anymore. sometimes you see these kids pouring into the back of a van and they’re all completely off their faces and there’s some poor tour manager trying to sort them out.Realise your worth PC: We started turning [offers] down if they weren’t good enough or weren’t worth our time. Because we actually value our time more than we used to.TS: We used to say yes to anything. I think you reach a point where you realise your worth. We never knew what we were worth. We just thought: ‘Well, they’ve offered us £150 so that must be OK’, but now we’ll just ask for another grand and if they say no then we won’t do it. And that feels quite good. Sometimes a fee isn’t great but you’re playing to 40,000 people so you really have to do it.JS: It’s just the costs of the practicality of the day, then there’s all the time you’ve invested and that you are a talent and have written all of your music.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Make your own merch JS: I’m really proud of our merch situation. We did it all ourselves. I design it. Some of it we literally make. The people who screenprint our posters and make them, we know them. We don’t go online to find some big merch company and get it shipped in. People really respond to that so well and the fact they’ve seen photos of us making it, hand stamping, they get so excited. If you want to know what’s making us the most money, well, on tour, it’s our merch. We’re doubling our income just from selling it out.New band of the day: Teleman (No 1,424) Meet your fansTS: We sell more merch because we’re selling it. People come up because we’re there. It would be a shame for this to change, for us to become cold. I’ve met so many nice people. They really want to know so much about you; they’re really interested. When you can do something which doesn’t cost you any effort but for someone else it’s quite meaningful, then I think you should do it. Keep collaboratingPC: What we learnt from Pete and the Pirates is that bands can break up. While we’ve got confidence in this band, there’s every chance we won’t be here forever. It’s important to know lots of people and be open to musical collaboration, because after a while there’s not much else you’re going to be able to do. I don’t really want to start learning a completely new skill when I’m 40, although I’m sure loads of people do.Don’t give up TS: I think we are very stubborn people. We’ve kept doing what we’re doing in the same way, when other bands would have stopped doing it because they haven’t had instant success. We’ve got a traditional setup, we’re quite a traditional band and we do things in a traditional way, for better or worse. But I like that approach. We’ve worked really hard and done things in quite a slow way, but now we’re seeing the results of it and they are strong. The same people keep coming back, and more each time. It feels like we’re sitting on something really strong. A genuine foundation, rather than something that we’ve tried to create out of thin air.PC: There’s a changing musical landscape that we’ve basically driven a hole through. Very slowly.