Starfleet was in command at the Imax screen on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, as well as theaters throughout North America last night. With the newest (but not the last!) Star Trek film hitting theaters, exhibitors recognized that tickets to a mini-festival for the more-is-more hardcore fans would go over like an extra dose of Ketracel-white to Jem’Hadar. (Translation: they’d eat it up.)As an out-and-proud member of the Trek-obsessed community and host of Engage: The Official Star Trek Podcast there was no doubt I’d clear my schedule (from 4.30pm to well past midnight on a Wednesday) for an opportunity to see these movies projected again in large format, despite seeing a screening of the latest, Star Trek Beyond, just a few days prior, and even when part of me kinda can’t stand the second film, Star Trek Into Darkness. As Spock is regularly told by his comrades Captain Kirk and Dr McCoy and even a future version of his own self, sometimes being logical isn’t always the right path.'Diversity is key' – Zachary Quinto on Star Trek and Snowden A few of the faithful were dressed in full Starfleet uniform (one young man had what appeared to be a working TR-560 Tricorder VI) but what might surprise people is how many dedicated Star Trek enthusiasts don’t fit the perceived stereotype. As at conventions there were young and old, families and individuals, a significant percentage of women (though, admittedly, not quite a 50/50 split) and as much racial diversity as one would find at any other typical New York screening. Yes, while on line for popcorn there were dudes clearly obsessed with ridiculous minutiae (“Seven of Nine’s Borg implants give her spacial acuity!”) but I happened to sit near a woman whose fandom was much more mellow, and who confessed she was most excited for another opportunity to bask in Benedict Cumberbatch’s 16x22 meter glow, even though his appearance of Khan Noonien Singh in Star Trek Into Darkness is one of the more maligned touch-points in this entire new trilogy. (It should be said that most of the vengeful nerds who voted Into Darkness the worst Star Trek film of all time didn’t hate Cumberbatch, per se, just the stupid regurgitation of the Khan character and the way it was teased out in the movie.)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The first Star Trek film of the current reboot, known to fans as Trek 09. Photograph: c.Paramount/Everett/RexWatching JJ Abrams’s first film (parlance for the reboot is usually Trek 09) it struck me just what a miracle it is. You can joke about the lens flare or the bridge looking like an Apple store (or the ridiculousness of giving a hothead right out of the Academy the center seat on the Federation’s flagship, or the fact that Spock would never maroon Kirk on Delta Vega, or question what Nero was doing for 25 years while he waited for Spock Prime to appear, or what the hell “red matter” is) but the fact remains that this movie could have been terrible. A major movie studio has no conscience, it just gobbles up IPs and excretes new versions. Think of the recent Total Recall, The Thing and Prometheus. Bringing back Kirk, Spock and Bones was a big risk, but risk is their business, and using Leonard Nimoy as the thread between classic Star Trek (the Prime Timeline) and these reboots (the Kelvin Timeline) was a work of creative and dealmaking genius.John Cho: gay kiss was cut from Star Trek Beyond The first image you see in Trek 09 is a blur of color, the camera is swooping and whirling as a new/old ship is zooming through space. But before you can recognize which end is up there is a sound – a sonar ping – whose DNA is 98% the same chirp that looped in the background in 1966’s premiere Star Trek television broadcast, and has been echoing through pop culture’s collective circulatory system ever since. There’s an alternate timeline where the Star Trek reboots didn’t think to include that, or the amplified-but-essentially-same uniforms, or any of the other hundred wins of Trek 09, not the least of which was the scene of the two Spocks discussing fate and friendship during their meet-up – one of the most emotional moments in the entire franchise, which just so happens to feature two guys who are alleged not to have any emotion.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Benedict Cumberbatch in Star Trek Into Darkness. Photograph: Rex/Paramount Pictures/courtesyThe elation after seeing Trek 09 again soon shifted to anxiety. Was I ready for the darkness? Funnily enough, in this context (eg a massive screen in a packed room of fans) I found myself willing to forgive this second movie’s transgressions. It has some flaws baked into it that can never be removed: its overly complex plot of false-flag attacks and multiple paranoid baddies doesn’t feel right for Star Trek. Also, while movies need to raise the stakes and put their characters through the ringer (even the always-cool Captain Picard flips out for a minute and breaks things in the near-perfect Star Trek: First Contact) there’s just a little too much of our guys acting like jerks in this film. Admiral Marcus’s secret ship is called the Vengeance, and vengeance as a motivator nearly makes Captain Kirk unrecognizable. Same with Spock toward the end, but by that point the movie is trying to wrap up with a big fisticuffs showdown and medical deus-ex-sanguinem, so the messy screenwriting has the unintended benefit of making this less of a problem.And yet! Everything else in this movie is pretty terrific. It has tremendous visual pop, propulsive action, great music and editing and the verbal zinging among the crew is spectacular. The central set piece of zooming between the damaged Enterprise and the Vengeance is basically the same as the drill jump from the last movie, but at least they fess up to it. (Kirk mumbles something to Khan about having once done something similar.) Nevertheless, Trek 09 ends with the promise of our characters going out to explore the galaxy and by the end of Into Darkness you realize they haven’t gotten there yet. This is an issue. Maybe next time?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Star Trek Beyond: the crew we love. Photograph: PRIt takes about 11 seconds of Star Trek Beyond to realize, yes, they got the memo. What we want out of these characters is to see them behaving like the crew we love, and though Kirk (in a captain’s log!) uses the term “episodic” in a derogatory way, for fans it is a panacea. The Star Trek movies get a lot of attention and make a lot of money, but mind-meld with a very high percentage of dedicated Trekkies and we will all have the same thought: the best Star Trek is actually on TV. A recurring critical sentiment about Star Trek Beyond is that it’s as if someone went back in time and gave a typical Original Series episode a $200m budget. It’s an exaggeration, but the principle is accurate. And it’s all any of us ever wanted.Star Trek Beyond is the best kind of fan service. It isn’t shoe-horning well-known lines (cue Tom Felton’s close-up bellow “It’s a madhouse!” in the otherwise great Rise of the Planet of the Apes) it’s getting to the essence of what we loved about these characters into the modern style of action-adventure film-making without letting those tropes overwhelm what makes Star Trek Star Trek.They have to save the world again, but it’s never a question that they will succeed. It’s the pleasure of seeing the group (plus our new best pal, Sofia Boutella’s Jaylah) work together and think their way through the problem. The solution is a bit more explosive and rock n’ roll than what we’d have seen in the old days, but the foundation is the same.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Star Trek Beyond star Simon Pegg: ‘The entire crew would have voted Remain’For decades fans have cherry-picked moments – stray lines of dialogue, really – that represent the electric relationship between Spock and Bones. Star Trek Beyond gives fans Christmas in July by marooning the science officer and chief surgeon together on a planet, affording them plenty of time to gripe and moan at each other (and basically say “I love you, bro” without using those exact words.)Comic-Con 2016 kicks off with Star Trek Beyond premiere There are a host of other smart moves, too, like the first ever representation of the Universal Translator that actually makes sense, as well as call-backs to events on the lesser-viewed series Star Trek Enterprise. Should you ever get trapped in a room with a guy like me, I’ll explain to you how this series (the Scott Bakula one) is actually a prequel to both original Trek and these new movies, so when Idris Elba’s Krall makes a throwaway reference to fighting the Xindi, it’s like co-writers Simon Pegg and Doug Jung are saying, “We see you out there in the audience, hardcore nerd, and we thank you.” (Same goes for a line about this.) I also need to check Memory Alpha, but the tab on a jacket’s zipper being the Starfleet insignia? I think that may be a first, and it is awesome.The vibe at the end of the triple-feature (as the closing credits rolled with a wink to the Next Generation’s font) was more than satiety. We didn’t want a cigarette, we wanted to go again. In addition to the expected and necessary dedications to Leonard Nimoy and Anton Yelchin, Beyond’s third-act salute to the original crew in a more tactile form didn’t bring rousing cheers – that would be coarse. It was more like applause at the end of a symphony, where every note landed exactly where it was supposed to. If Star Trek Beyond was the last Star Trek movie for a very long while, it would be OK. For fans, it’s basically perfect. But it looks like we’re getting another, which means the next marathon is just going to be two hours longer.