Everything happens in Adelaide in March – our picks of the festival It’s a balmy night in Adelaide at the Garden of Unearthly Delights, where families take turns on fairground rides and friends swig local cider under trees. Despite the relative quiet and the marshmallow quality of the evening sky, Scottish “mentalist” Colin Cloud is planning his perfect murder.Using nothing but deduction – a combination of observing body language, eye movements, smell and language – the forensic scientist can guess what an audience member is thinking. That’s down to the digits of a phone number or a childhood sweetheart’s name.Tonight he is dressed somewhere between a vampire and a 19th century gentleman from Sherlock Holmes. Cloud gives a literally heart-stopping performance – stopping one volunteer’s actual heartbeats, rendering him technically dead.It’s a riveting turn, one that brings greater gasps from the audience than the most dazzling of acrobatic shows. Somewhere between Cloud’s quips and our gulps is beauty: when asked how he felt to have his heart stop, the man said before his eyes a thousand stars burst.Cloud was just one of many acts to impress at Adelaide fringe. Here are my favourites from this year’s festival.Velvet Velvet – which premiered in Adelaide last year but has since toured the globe – is back. Thank goodness. This is sex incarnate: a sassy, brassy, bold showstopper. (After Adelaide it will travel to the Melbourne International Comedy festival and the Queensland Performing Arts Centre in Brisbane.)Adelaide: A crash course in creative thinking Set to live disco hits, Velvet follows singer-songwriter Brendan Maclean as he tries to find himself. In the process he transforms from lost boy in an ill-fitting suit to a man in fabulous rainbow kitsch. Joining him on stage is the queen of Aussie 70s pop, Marcia Hines, who belts out numbers in a statuesque shimmering gold dress.Meanwhile, acrobats flip, fly and flutter. Grinning, one gives a naughty striptease, while balancing on a single hand atop a precarious tower of suitcases. Another dressed in leather shows off his rippling torso suspended from the ceiling as two slinky backup singers in see-through raincoats croon – what else but It’s Raining Men? Maclean’s rendition of Staying Alive, slowed down to a lament and accompanied with a sole ukulele, is strangely haunting, while a scene with bondage, whips and leashes brings the excitement to breaking point. Velvet is at the Garden of Unearthly Delights until 13 MarchEchoes by Henry Naylor       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Two British women, born 175 years apart, in Echoes. Photograph: Adelaide fringe festivalIn Echoes, writer Henry Naylor relays the journeys of two British women living in the Middle East, born 175 years apart. Both single, lonely, feisty and bright, each travel to marry, in this disturbing, brilliant example of the power of storytelling.2016 Adelaide Biennial of Australian Art: colour, wonder, materialism and magic Tillie (Felicity Houlbrooke), a prissy, buttoned-up Victorian, becomes a member of the Fishing Fleet – spinsters who wed bachelors serving the Raj in India. With her abusive, violent, abrasive spouse she then relocates to Afghanistan, where life unravels at her disgust over treatment of the locals.Simultaneously teenage Samira (Filipa Bragança) runs away from home in modern-day Ipswich to become a jihadi bride in Syria with Islamic State. Excited at the prospect of romance and ideological purpose, she soon finds herself little more than a domestic slave, to be raped and beaten by her handsome but cruel husband.For both women, producing children is seen as duty, their bodies viewed as chattel and their minds dismissed. On a bare stage they speak with compelling urgency until the play reaches its shocking denouement. Ultimately, the right to choose becomes more important than the will to live.Echoes by Henry Naylor is at Holden Street Theatres, The Arch until 13 MarchThe Adventures of Alvin Sputnik: Deep Sea Explorer      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Underwater adventures with Alvin Sputnik, the deep-sea explorer. Photograph: Adelaide FringeIt’s not often you see a near seven-foot man dressed in head-to-toe Lycra wielding a puppet in a scuba diving suit.Taste the world: Womadelaide 2016 artists share their favourite recipes In this short one-man, multimedia play, waters have flooded an Earth that is in the throes of “menopausal rage”. Many people are dead, drowned, their bodies littering the ocean’s floor. Forlorn skyscrapers peek from the tide, reminders of a once-great civilisation. Young Alvin Sputnik, himself in the throes of grief after the death of his wife, must try and save humankind by plunging into the depths of the ocean.After the show I spoke with actor Sam Longley who works the ingenious puppetry. He said Perth-based creator Tim Watts was inspired to make Alvin Sputnik while diving and witnessing the “darkness” under the seas. The theme of exploration features heavily in this piece: the name Sputnik was taken from the world’s first artificial Earth satellite, launched in the 1950s by the Soviet Union.Funny, moving and brilliant in parts, this is one for children as well as adults. Above all it is a meditation on loneliness – and in that, at least, The Adventures of Alvin Sputnik is as much about loss as superheroes saving the day.The Adventures of Alvin Sputnik is at Royal Croquet Club, The Menagerie until 14 MarchGhosts, Toast and the Things Unsaid       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matrimonial toast gets burnt in Ghosts, Toast and the Things Unsaid. Photograph: Adelaide fringe festivalIn Ghosts, Toast and the Things Unsaid, the number of audience members total two and the play is just 20 minutes long. Upon arrival I am given a ghost costume to wear (really an unwieldy white sheet with two holes for eyes) and a letter, explaining that I am the character “Steve”. Along with the other ghost (who is “Maude, my wife”), I am ordered to stand in a black triangle in the middle of a stage. As the lights go down a series of scenes are simultaneously acted out in a circle around us.These show pivotal moments in Steve and Maude’s lives in the 1950s, 70s and 90s. In one they are young, hopeful and newly wed. Another portrays a middle-aged sense of disappointment and resentment, and a confession rocks the security of their union. In the third Steve is alone, the pair long separated, thinking back on what went wrong and why.Unsound Adelaide review – breaking ground with unorthodox live sounds But here’s the catch: hidden inside each ghost costume is a smartphone that relays what the character you are looking at is thinking. I can only hear Steve’s thoughts and by swivelling can only tap into one part of the narrative at a time, choosing what to focus on and what to leave out. It is only when I emerge, blinking and stunned, that the story fully comes together by comparing notes with my companion.A collaboration between Google Creative Lab in Sydney and performing company Sandpit and Grumpy Sailor Creative who put together the audio system, this is experimental theatre at its best. It asks whether stories should be, as in real life, nonlinear and confused, how we can incorporate technology into theatre, and why we never really know what another person is thinking. And though all I want to do is rush back in to listen to Maude, to gain her perspective and piece together the puzzle, I’ll have to save that for another night.Ghosts, Toast and the Things Unsaid is at 25 Marlborough Street until 8 March