It has taken an extremely long time – 161 years – but the National Portrait Gallery finally has the Duke of Wellington in its collection after a fundraising campaign reached its £1.3m target.The gallery announced on Thursday that it had acquired Sir Thomas Lawrence’s unfinished final portrait of a man regarded as Britain’s greatest soldier after a successful appeal.Nicholas Cullinan, the gallery’s director, said the NPG had been looking for a suitable depiction of the Duke of Wellington since the gallery was founded in 1856.He called it “a remarkable painting”, while Lucy Peltz, the gallery’s senior curator of 18th-century paintings, said the work was “an eloquent and powerful image of one of the most iconic and influential men of the 18th and 19th centuries”.The NPG announced last November that it needed to raise £300,000, the final piece of a funding jigsaw. The Art Fund had already contributed £350,000 and the appeal reached its target thanks to £200,000 from the G&K Boyes charitable trust and £180,000 from the National Heritage Memorial Fund. A further £570,000 came from a public appeal and the gallery’s own funds.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A senior curator at the gallery has described Lawrence’s portrait as ‘eloquent and powerful’. Photograph: NPG/PAPainted in 1829 when Wellington was prime minister, the work is known as the Jersey Portrait after the woman who commissioned it, a friend, admirer and possible lover Sarah Child-Villiers, the Countess of Jersey, a leading society hostess and well-known gossip whose nickname was Silence.Lawrence died in 1830 leaving the portrait unfinished. The gallery believes it is a more compelling work because of that, with the viewer focusing more on the man himself rather than any accoutrements of power.Wellington, known as the Iron Duke, remains the only person to go through the entire declension of the British peerage, beginning as the honourable Arthur Wellesley before becoming Sir Arthur, Baron Wellington, Viscount Wellington, Earl of Wellington, Marquess of Wellington and, finally, Duke of Wellington.Dan Snow, the historian and broadcaster, said Wellington was a “titanic figure” in British history … our only field marshal prime minister, a man of genius on and off the battlefield”. He added: “This arresting portrait must sit in the national collection and now, following an outpouring of generosity, it will do. The artist has captured the duke’s legendary demeanour. Among his many contributions to British life he forged the masculine culture of unbending froideur in the face of adversity. It is as special as a work of art as it is as a primary source.”The painting was lent to the NPG in 2015 for an exhibition marking the bicentenary of the Battle of Waterloo. Before that it had not been on public view for any significant time.It will now go on permanent public display in Room 20 of the gallery, in the company of figures including the philosopher Edmund Burke, prime ministers George Canning and William Pitt, and the reformers William Wilberforce and Hannah More.