The best pantomimes of Christmas 2016 When I was a teenager, my parents took me, one sad late January night, to the pantomime at the Bradford Alhambra. It was Dick Whittington, if memory serves (the internet confirms it does). Considering myself too old and clever for the genre, I sulked plushly in my red velvet seat, while my parents and kid sister laughed and cheered and booed, largely untroubled as they were by hormonal strife and adolescent narcissism. But then the Chuckle Brothers took to the stage playing, presumably, a pair of well-intentioned but incompetent men given slightly too much responsibility for their particular skill level. It is the only time in my life that I can recall being truly helpless with laughter.These days, I laugh only at things that are objectively not funny, such as gifs and moments of international political tragedy. And my laugh can hardly be called a “laugh” in any true sense. It is, in the words of Samuel Beckett, a “mirthless laugh … down the snout ... the laugh that laughs ... at that which is unhappy”. But on that cold West Yorkshire night at the turn of the millennium, Paul and Barry made a complete dog’s dinner of absolutely everything that was asked of them and my laughter was full of mirth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Festive cheer... Liam Williams.This year, in a bid to regain my mirth, I have a co-written a new pantomime, a satirical retelling of the story of Dick Whittington (called, in this version, Ricky Whittington so as to eschew all imperative to include dick jokes) with my friend-collaborator of 10 years, Daran “Jonno” Johnson. Jonno is from Yorkshire, too, and tells a similar story about seeing the Chuckle Brothers as a boy and having to be physically restrained from running on to the stage to be with them, so entertained was he.W, you might ask, TF are a pair of alternative comedy writers with pretensions of artistry doing writing a pantomime in this day and age? The very word is pejorative; you need only subject it to a quick Google image search to discover the genre’s lamo stock elements: men in gaudy drag, women in gaudy drag, garish set design, garish costume design, garish poster design, and Shane Richie. Panto, surely, belongs in the past. But then, surely, so too do baking shows, dancing shows and xenophobia as a mainstream phenomenon, and all those things have become trendy again. So why shouldn’t pantomime?The time for reconciliation between the Liberal Metropolitan Elite and Real Normal People has come, and, as self-appointed spokesmen of the former camp, this is our offering to the latter. We’ve paused work on our self-flagellating standup shows and postmodern sitcom scripts to create something we hope will feel accessible to anybody who, like us, has ever found joy, even for a few ephemeral moments, in watching a pantomime.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The panto big guns... Barry and Paul Chuckle. Not sure which is which.That’s not to say we’ve gone straight. We’re still rock’n’roll through-and-through and plying our [fire emoji x3] brand of reasonably leftwing whimsy. It’s just that this time we’re doing it according to pantomime conventions. But don’t think said conventions won’t be mildly subverted a few times across the show, because they will be. “Oh no they won’t!”“But I think you’ll find it’s otherwise, though!”Liam Williams on Caroline Aherne: ‘the Bambi-eyed princess of northern naturalism’ We’re still writing what we know. And what we know – all we know – is what it’s like to move to London, from relatively humble origins, with ambitions of fame and fortune, only to find those ambitions frustrated. And that’s why we’ve chosen to retell the story of Dick Whittington, an absolute boss of English folklore (and RL, apparently), who moved to London, from relatively humble origins, with ambitions of fame and fortune, only to find those ambitions frustrated (although in the end he does become thrice mayor of London, but then his cat has ridded the city of a rat infestation, so it’s only fair enough).Nobody in history has actively wanted to be a pantomime writer, just as nobody has ever wanted to be a urinal designer or composer of the music that plays when you open birthday cards, but pantos will not write themselves. And while some wags may aver that’s a good thing, we’re having none of it. In austere and divided times, we’re embracing silliness and route-one togetherness. Yes, we’re (we hope) mordantly commenting on the international financial centre/ gentrifiers’ theme park known as London, but we’re also just trying to raise a chuckle – whether that’s a down-the-nose-snort or one that’s truly mirthful.Ricky Whittington & His Cat is at New Diorama Theatre, NW1, 12 December to 7 January