Black Twitter shouldn't be dismissed because it's not useful to white activists | Ruby Hamad It often feels like the first time you hear about a meme you’re also hearing its death knell. That’s because it’s popular to say that a meme has died once it has been reported on by the media and reproduced by the masses. Unicycling frog Dat Boi has been declared dead on a number of occasions, but is still regularly referenced on social media. It echoes the age-old adolescent frustration about alternative culture being co-opted by the mainstream, and is proof that, in some quarters, the kind of memes you’re into says just as much about you as your Instagram feed or your preferred Labour party faction.Yet mainstream culture’s appropriation of memes can be a serious issue. Many memes first gain traction on Black Twitter – the name given to a subset of the platform’s users best known for birthing social justice movements such as Black Lives Matter. One recent trend directed by Black Twitter has been the creation of memes from 90s PBS cartoon Arthur. Stills from the show are used as shorthand for various feelings – a closeup of Arthur’s clenched fist, for example, equals suppressed rage – while the different skin colours of the characters allow meme-makers to layer on jokes about racial politics, such as Arthur’s sister DW silencing her white bunny friend as she utters the dubious phrase “all lives matter”.  Arthur’s first has become a Harambe meme. Photograph: Instagram/alexmemepageBut when a meme like this becomes popular, the concept of Black Twitter is often erased from the conversation: in the case of Arthur, many websites wrote about the phenomenon without referencing who came up with it. And when that is viewed as part of a narrative that has seen white people endlessly appropriate black culture, it becomes about more than just who projected adult emotion on to a kids’ cartoon first.Returning to the subject of death (this is 2016: worst year since records began, after all), you may remember hearing the story of Harambe, the 17-year-old gorilla who was killed in May after a child climbed into his enclosure in Cincinnati Zoo. Meme-makers have seized on this gorilla’s death (initially on Black Instagram, as it happens), honouring the ape in social media posts with a cod-fanaticism that belies references to a number of things. Originally, the blinkered mourning of Harambe was a parody of the hysteria expressed by some social media users at the news of its shooting, yet in his afterlife, Harambe’s death and the remembrance of it have been woven into multiple other narratives.  2016 has been a year characterised by great loss2016, for example, has seen an unprecedented number of major cultural figures pass away, leading to the media to indulge in a perpetual state of bereavement. Some memes have included Harambe in this pantheon of greats, a joke that acts as a sort of release valve from the pressure of constant mourning. At the same time, Harambe also represents stubborn remembrance in a world of rolling atrocity news – don’t forget it’s been four months since he died, roughly 10,000 years in meme-time – and part of the joke is trying to make anything and everything a tribute to him, countering the compulsive forgetting that the media usually practises. (See, for instance, the defaced Taylor Swift mural that commemorated the singer’s “death” after losing a spat with Kim and Kanye, and some US teens tricking Google into renaming a street Harambe Drive.) These callbacks are a standard meme mechanism, but what’s different about Harambe is how much importance he has been imbued with over time. As of August 2016, Harambe is widely regarded to be of cosmic significance, his death half an opening of a Pandora’s box of 21st-century ills, half a martyrdom of saint-like proportions. Earlier this month Gawker reported on a poll that saw 5% of people choose Harambe as their preferred presidential candidate.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Australian road safety campaign’s Graham.Road safety: confronting sculpture shows human vulnerability to crashes Rounding off a triad of death-related memes is Graham. Graham is a sculpture of what the human body would look like if it evolved to survive car crashes, created as part of an Australian road safety campaign, and his grotesque appearance has made him into an online sensation and the butt of many jokes – one notable Photoshop job has him superimposed into the posters for Drive. But we don’t need the imaginary progress of Graham to marvel at human evolution: who would have guessed a couple of years ago that a model of a deformed human designed to remind us of our own fragile existence would pass for a jolly diversion in 2016? Apart from Harambe, obviously. He knew.