“When God gives you a talent,” says Bill Curbishley, when asked what exactly a manager brings to music, “he takes a little bit away from somewhere else … I’m the guy who replaces it.” The relationship between artists – those characterised by being such special snowflakes no one tells them to STFU – and people who take an administrative role in their care (characterised by an eternally haunted look in their eyes) isn’t a relationship that’s explored all that often; with answers like that it’s not hard to see why.And yet Music Moguls: Masters Of Pop (Friday, 10pm, BBC4), a three-part series on the people scuttling about behind the scenes of the record industry, is a gem. It takes a fascinating look at PR people, producers and, in the first episode, the very, very patient figures with one eye on a dream and another on the clock: the managers. What does it take to be a good manager? Put on the spot, not many of the insiders have an explanation, philosophising and circumnavigating the answer as they soldier through flashbacks of micromanaging the excesses of wealthy, six-foot-tall children. “What is a manager?” Andrew Loog Oldham ponders for a moment on his private Colombian estate, accessed via a footbridge and surrounded by lush forest. In the background, the palms whisper “lucky chancer”, but Oldham – who went from dandy about town to managing the Rolling Stones in the 60s – concludes that it was his destiny to introduce the band to the world. Elsewhere Jon Landau offers one of the more helpful insights when he suggests that when dealing with promoters and record label bosses s some training in hand-to-hand combat might come in handy .Having watched the thing it seems bolshiness, nerve and cold-blooded duplicity are the qualities neccessary to become a successful manager. For anyone now considering a cheeky career change, be advised that the custom of buying up records to rig the charts has gone out of the window along with record sales, but other options remain. Malcolm McLaren’s trick of writing fake letters of outrage to music publications, for instance, could be a goer. Or look to Simon Napier-Bell, narrator of the opening episode, who manipulated a whole dictatorial regime to his whims when he brokered the deal that made Wham! the first western group to perform in front of stony-faced communists in China, thus spreading across the globe a message of universal freedom and snazzy white denim.A special mention should go to British manager/snakey genius Larry Parnes, whose business model involved nicking American artists’ songs before they were released, snatching an adolescent out of a chip shop queue, giving him a silly name and a tub of hair grease, and then shoving the poor lamb into a recording booth to get a single into the shops before the US versions went on sale. It’s a dirty tactic, but you can’t fault it for boldness.To me, stories of tantrums and vandalised hotel rooms are as dull as dishwater. I believe the real juice to be in the small print of contractual obligations. Who really cares what gave Mariah the hump on tour? Who can resist the fact that two dozen pure white rider kittens were subsequently used to soothe her? One impressive little touch in the programme sees Sharon Osbourne explaining the intricacies of her husband’s high-tension business deals with his manager and her father Don Arden, the Salford gangster given to dangling people out of windows. What really makes this series good, though, is the basic fact that old men love a gossip. In retirement, figures on both sides of the artist/manager divide have enough free time on their hands to reminisce, dwell on small slights from the past and sulkily fold their arms as they reflect from an Ibizan villa how badly they were done over.“Last manager we had?” muses Shaun Ryder, “Arsehole he turned out to be. And I’ve still not been paid for Through The Keyhole.”