Hannah Montana And Her Sisters, anyone? Miley Cyrus last week announced her new acting role with suitable gravitas on Instagram: “Fuck yeah! Stoked to be in Woody Allen’s first series!!!!” The twerking, hammer-licking 23-year-old popstrel will star in the veteran director’s as-yet-untitled 60s-set TV comedy, which starts shooting in March and will air this autumn on streaming service Amazon Prime. We helpfully suggest 10 other unlikely names Allen could cast – and the roles they could play…Justin Bieber      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Rob Latour/Rex ShutterstockWoody’s clearly in the market for former tweenyboppers keen to show they’re all grown up, so the Canadian pop chipmunk should be next on his hit list. Bieber’s got acting experience, courtesy of CSI and Zoolander 2, so could don specs to play a neurotic young Allen archetype, with added six-pack and bulging Calvins. Beliebers would boost ratings, too.Jessica Raine      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: ITVBroadcasting law dictates that any TV period drama must feature the star of Call the Midwife, Wolf Hall, Partners in Crime and Jericho. Compulsory hat-wearing also applies.Danny Dyer      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Mike Marsland/WireImageHaving shot four films in our capital, Allen’s something of a Londonphile. Who’s more quintessentially cockney than the “pwopah nawty” landlord of the Queen Vic? Dyer could be Allen’s no-nonsense East End psychiatrist. “Jog on, Freudians. Get yer feet off my couch, you nuttah.”Serena Williams      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Lynn Bo Bo/AAPThere’s a tennis scene in Annie Hall and Woody used the sport as the backdrop of Match Point. He’s the ideal man to supervise Serena’s acting debut. As long as they don’t have much screen time together – 4in taller in flats, she’d dwarf him.Milhouse from The Simpsons      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Fox BroadcastingAlready an established TV star and is built in a lab (OK, an animation studio) to play the young Woody.Davina McCall      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Ken McKay/ITV/Rex/ShutterstockJust so they could call it Crimes & Miss Davinas.Jeremy Clarkson      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Ben Cawthra/RexHe’s an Amazon Prime colleague of Woody’s these days. The former Top Gear loudmouth could play a villainous millionaire who punches our hero in a hot food-based fracas. Shouldn’t be much of a stretch.Peppa Pig      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: fiveAs Allen ages, his ingenues get younger. The cartoon pig has a way with a witty one-liner, would open up merchandise opportunities and is pretty much Mariel Hemingway in porcine form. Cue a romantic montage of Peppa and Woody jumping in muddy puddles.Joseph Fiennes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Chris Pizzello/AP“It don’t matter if you’re black or white…” Joseph Alberic Twisleton-Wykeham-Fiennes from Salisbury has just been cast as Michael Jackson in a TV drama. If he can play the King of Pop, surely he can play anyone.Mia Farrow      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Desiree Navarro/WireImageThat would be surprise casting. It’d be even more jaw-dropping if Farrow played a love interest of roughly Woody’s own age.