A lot of people missed the spinning Astor Place cube sculpture, which was removed from New York’s East Village in October 2014 and was finally reinstated on Tuesday. Alex Quick, who dressed up as the artwork for Halloween last year, knows that from experience.Dressed in a bulky cardboard costume, Quick stood in the Astor Place plaza for hours, hoping to brighten up the nights of passerby. Pedestrians attempted to spin him like they would the real cube or stopped to relay their memories of the sculpture. The internet was delighted. Posts about his costume resurfaced again this year.Paul Owen (@PaulTOwen)@adacalhoun costume of the year pic.twitter.com/PCo66a0YQwOctober 31, 2015“People shared these really personal stories – things you don’t normally share with a stranger,” Quick, 27, told the Guardian. “I was not a stranger to them. I was like an old friend.”One couple told him of a ritual at their high school in which kissing the cube ensured a relationship would last forever. They worried for the fate of their own relationship when the cube was removed in 2014 for safekeeping as the plaza was renovated. Another couple who lived nearby were worried that their newborn would never get to see the real thing.They don’t need to worry any longer. The cube was reinstalled on Tuesday after months of false starts. As one of the city’s best known pieces of public art, the cube is a cultural landmark. Judging from the excited reactions on social media, New Yorkers couldn’t be happier about its return.Snugffleupagus (@Snugug)The Astor Place cube returns! pic.twitter.com/EXhBpaLynGNovember 1, 2016Astor Place NYC (@AstorPlaceNYC)Breaking News! The Cube is back!!The Cube is back!!The Cube is back!!The Cube is back!!The Cube is back!!The Cube is back!! pic.twitter.com/vUl7lUjX9uNovember 1, 2016Curbed NY (@CurbedNY)The Cube is off the truck and there's a woman at the installation in a Cube costume. New York, you're the best. (by @Scoboco) pic.twitter.com/9oUpmJW6v6November 1, 2016The 1,800lb, 15ft by 15ft by 15ft, CorTen steel artwork – officially called the Alamo – was created by the artist Tony Rosenthal, who died in 2009, and is one of five of his public sculptures in New York City, and one of many that he created for locations around the country. Originally part of a temporary exhibition, the cube became permanent after local residents petitioned for it, according to a 1967 New York Times article. Rosenthal created a number of similar cubes, which reside in Florida; Connecticut; Ohio; at his alma mater, the University of Michigan; and on a lawn in Westchester County, New York. Since its installation in 1967, the Alamo has only been removed twice. The first time was in 2004 when it needed internal repairs. The more recent removal was for a redesign of Astor Place. Construction began in 2013 to turn the confusing intersection into a pedestrian plaza, with new rules, more tables and chairs, and the Alamo as a focal point.David Kaner (@DavidKaner)New tables and chairs finally installed at Astor Place. New plaza no longer feels weirdly empty. pic.twitter.com/bGDQ1wLYMQSeptember 10, 2016The cube itself serves as a landmark and hangout spot in the East Village. Quick said he used to sit beneath it, smoking and people-watching. It is a favorite of local university students from New York University and Cooper Union.When Ada Calhoun, the author of St Marks is Dead, was researching photos of East Village characters for her book on the area’s history, she noticed the Alamo in many of them. “In the 60s it’s there and the hippies are all hanging out around it in their fringe vests smoking pot. And then it’s really desolate and the seedy-looking characters in the 70s. And then skateboarders,” Calhoun said. “It’s just been this witness to all these different subcultures.” A producer for Kids, the 1995 film about New York City teenagers, said it served as a departure place during filming. Skateboarder Harold Hunter starred in the movie and really did hang around the Astor Place cube with his board, Calhoun said.The cube has been the subject of numerous pranks and hoaxes, from being covered in yarn to being converted to a Rubik’s cube. In 2013, a fake documentary claimed a 37-year-old writer named Dave lived inside the sculpture. In the video, eventually revealed to be an ad for a mindfulness training company, his belongings clattered off the shelves whenever passersby spun the cube.Gerry Snyder, dean of the Pratt Institute’s School of Art, remembered spending time near the cube when he was working on his master’s degree at New York University in the 1980s. “It was a favorite of skateboarders and tourists who were turning it and taking their picture in front of it,” Snyder recalled.Though the Alamo seems to be widely appreciated, it is difficult to anticipate what the public will love or hate when it comes to public artworks, Snyder said.When he was the vice-president of academic affairs at Pacific Northwest College of Art in Portland, Oregon, Snyder was part of a group that commissioned the artist Kenny Scharf to build brightly colored totem poles around the city, called Tikitotemoniki. “They were kind of perceived as bad and wrong and unfortunate,” Snyder said of the artwork at its inception in 2001. Now, he says, they’re well liked. “It’s an example of how something can shift over time.”The Tilted Arc, a 120 by 12 feet curved metal wall by Richard Serra that bisected the plaza outside the Jacob K Javitz Federal Building in New York, was considered an irritant to those who worked in the area because it blocked foot traffic. Snyder, who liked the 1981 work, called it a “brutal commentary” on the building and “a menace to the people who worked there”. Though intended to be permanent, it was eventually taken down.Paul McCarthy’s temporary inflatable abstract Christmas tree from 2014 was compared to a butt plug, vandalized and removed early from Paris’s Place Vendôme.The New York City parks department lists 843 permanent artworks on its sites, including monuments, fountains, mosaics and other styles. The city has a number of temporary public artwork exhibitions, such as Van Gogh’s Ear, a giant, upright swimming pool which was located in Rockefeller Center and made possible by the Public Art Fund, a not-for-profit group that stages installations around the city.Nicholas Baume, the fund’s director and chief curator, emphasized the importance of public artwork in enriching lives, challenging artists and “making significant work by important artists available to everybody, including people who may not have the opportunity to visit museums”.David A Ross, chair of the School of Visual Arts’ art practice program and a former museum director, wished that Astor Place would showcase temporary exhibitions instead of Rosenthal’s Alamo sculpture.“Choose an extraordinary artist who wants to comment on that space, on life in the city, on something else from some completely unique aesthetic perspective,” he suggested. Though the Astor Place cube has a nostalgic connection to the community, “it could be so much more than that”, Ross said.Allegra Hobbs (@AllegraEHobbs)Onlookers cheer as the cube is returned pic.twitter.com/vDQGAE3eRoNovember 1, 2016