“Immersive” was once the marketing buzzword when it came to selling theatre tickets, but the latest USP is a secret location. One of the reasons for this is the huge success of Secret Cinema, where the mystery surrounding both the venue and the film being shown is part of the allure. But it is also about opportunistic promotion. A clandestine location sounds infinitely more enticing than telling audiences the show is taking place in a bar close to a retail park in Tottenham Hale, as is the case with Philip Ridley’s latest show, Karagula.Diverse, daring and prepared to fail: how Secret Theatre rewrote the rules There’s no reason whatsoever for not naming the venue (it’s called Styx), other than the possibility that Tottenham Hale might be a couple of tube stops too far up the Victoria line for theatregoers who never go further than the Park in north London. A secret site adds an element of mystery, turning what might be just another night out at a fringe venue into “event theatre”, creating a sense of exclusivity and being in the know. The fact that most people now have smartphones also makes it easier for theatregoers to get to out-of-the-way locations without much trouble or the fear of getting lost.The secrecy surrounding the location is rarely a genuine part of the dramaturgy of a show rather than a ticket sales device. It worked for CoLab’s Crooks earlier this year when the audience were supposedly invited to a party held by criminal royalty, where nobody was quite what they seemed. You knew that Anagram’s Nightwatchers was being held after dark in the Tower of London, but the setup – you were messaged the location to meet at and a password – added a clandestine feeling to a show about surveillance and secrets.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch a trailer for the immersive show Nightwatchers, at Tower of LondonIn the Lyric’s Secret Theatre seasons, part of the frisson was not knowing in which bit of the building you might view a show. But whereas most of the reviews for Karagula – positive, negative and all shades in between – named the location, there has been none of the outrage at those who spoiled elements of the Secret Theatre shows. For the Lyric, secrecy served an initial purpose but it sometimes overshadowed a season that challenged how British theatre is made and presented, its range and diversity.I reckon that secrecy around locations, or any other element of theatre, only has a purpose if the content or the form of the show demands it. Just as audiences see through the casual use of “interactive” or “immersive” to describe a show, they will soon add “secret location” to the overused terms for those shows that simply don’t live up to the hype. 