The actor George Gaynes, who has died aged 98, gave warm, sparkling performances in two 1980s comedy hits. In Sydney Pollack’s Tootsie (1982), he played John Van Horn, a lecherous old ham known to his colleagues on a daytime TV soap opera as “the Tongue”. Breath-freshener at the ready, he tries his luck with a new female cast member, not realising that she is in fact a male performer (played by Dustin Hoffman) in drag. Pauline Kael of the New Yorker magazine called Gaynes’s work in the film “a small comic triumph” and said: “Once you’ve laughed at him, even the sight of him triggers more laughs.”Two years later he played Commandant Lassard in Police Academy, about a ragtag assortment of trainee cops who triumph against the odds. Gaynes portrayed Lassard as a lovable twit with little idea of what is happening around him. He was the centrepiece of the movie’s funniest scene, in which, for reasons too complicated to explain, he is called upon to deliver a speech while receiving the attentions of a prostitute concealed inside the podium. That was typical of the sort of crude humour that pushed the $4.5m movie towards a box office gross of more than $80m.Even if the fun waned during the six sequels churned out over the next decade, beginning with Police Academy 2: Their First Assignment (1985) and ending with Police Academy: Mission to Moscow (1994), Gaynes was always a delight. He also played Lassard in one 1998 episode of Police Academy: The Series, a short-lived television spin-off.Gaynes was born George Jongejans in Helsinki, Finland, and raised in England, France and Switzerland. His Dutch father, Gerrit, was a businessman; his Russian mother, Iya Grigorievna de Gay, was an artist. Acting was in the family – his uncle, Gregory Gaye, appeared in Casablanca. But Gaynes’s own career began in Milan, where he trained as an opera singer.During the second world war he spent three months interned in Spain, then enlisted in the Royal Dutch Navy in Britain. Afterwards he travelled to New York and joined the New York City Opera. Other work in the early 1950s included a role as Jupiter in the Broadway production of Cole Porter’s Out of this World (1950-51) and as the magazine editor Bob Baker in the original production of Wonderful Town (1953-54), starring Rosalind Russell.He gravitated towards television in the mid-50s, and featured in numerous shows including The Alfred Hitchcock Hour, Bonanza, Mission: Impossible, Hawaii Five-O and The Six Million Dollar Man, as well as in the popular 1976 mini series Rich Man, Poor Man. He came to cinema in the 60s, starring in Sidney Lumet’s acclaimed The Group (1966), Pollack’s love story The Way We Were (1973), and Nickelodeon (1976), Peter Bogdanovich’s comedy about the origins of the movie industry.Other films included Ken Russell’s science fiction horror Altered States (1980) and Dead Men Don’t Wear Plaid (1982), a Steve Martin comedy, directed by Carl Reiner, that ingeniously and seamlessly combined scenes from old movies with new material shot in black and white.After the success of Tootsie, Gaynes was increasingly in demand. He starred in Mel Brooks’s remake of Ernst Lubitsch’s screwball second world war comedy To Be or Not to Be (1983) and the bigamy comedy Micki + Maude (1984) with Dudley Moore.He became a star at the age of 67 when he played Henry Warnimont, an initially curmudgeonly widower who adopts a cute young waif in the sitcom Punky Brewster, which ran for four years from 1984. “It turned out he was basically a very kind and generous man, which he covered up with his surface gruffness and surface bluster,” Gaynes said of Henry. He claimed there was “not a hell of a lot of difference” between him and the character. Gaynes also played Henry in an animated version, It’s Punky Brewster, that aired concurrently.Notable film work included Louis Malle’s brilliant Vanya on 42nd Street (1994), which was adapted from Chekhov by David Mamet and starred Julianne Moore; Nicholas Hytner’s film version of Arthur Miller’s The Crucible (1996) with Daniel Day-Lewis; and the political satire Wag the Dog (1997), also scripted by Mamet, starring Hoffman and Robert De Niro.Gaynes retired from acting in 2003. He is survived by his wife, the actor Allyn Ann McLerie, by their daughter, Iya, and by a granddaughter and two great-granddaughters. A son, Matthew, predeceased him.• George Gaynes (George Jongejans), actor, born 16 May 1917; died 15 February 2016