For a long time, Dame Jacqueline Wilson had no idea how sad she was as a child. “If you’d asked me as I was growing up was I happy, I’d have said yes, and been absolutely certain I was. If I was sometimes nervous or anxious, which I was, I would have thought it was my fault.”Divorce, child abuse and parental neglect all feature regularly in her bestselling children’s books – but until now little has been known about how the writer’s own unhappy childhood has influenced her work. After the death of her mother last year, Wilson, 70, is marking the publication next month of her 105th novel, Clover Moon, by finally allowing her own family skeletons to come out of the closet.Like The Story of Tracy Beaker, Wilson’s book that spawned a BBC TV series and a musical, Clover Moon features a plucky young heroine, who this time ends up in an institution for destitute girls in Victorian London, escaping an abusive stepmother.Wilson writes a lot about family tension because during her own childhood in the 1950s and 1960s, she found children’s fiction out of touch with reality. “Children’s books back then presented a world where parents didn’t argue,” she says.“My parents argued every day, about practically everything.”Her father, Harry, was a depressive who lived in a state of great tension. Her mother Margaret – “Biddy” – wanted a divorce – but as a respectable woman was too ashamed to even say the word out loud. “She didn’t see how she could leave him. So they were stuck with each other, even though they had nothing whatsoever in common,” Wilson says.Biddy had very definite views about what a man should be like – and it wasn’t her father. “My mother wanted my father to be a powerful businessman, a wide boy with a trilby hat and a camel coat full of watches; instead, my father was a civil servant who worked tremendously hard. She undermined him a great deal. And he’d take his temper out on her,” she says. While Wilson doesn’t recall her father ever lashing out, their fights did get physical. “They would shove each other, certainly, and she would have slapped at him.”Wilson would also get a slap or a smack sometimes if she didn’t do what her mother wanted. People were much fiercer with children then, she says. She could sometimes relax around her mother, but felt differently about her father: he was never violent towards her, but she lived in constant fear of his temper. “You never knew quite what you would say or do that would set my dad off. I was frequently frightened of him right up until the day he died.”High days and holidays were always sources of tension. “They always had terrible rows at Christmas. My father would be carving and my mum would tell him he was doing it all wrong and criticise him like mad,” Wilson says. “He couldn’t handle that and would react. One Christmas Day, I remember he did the classic thing of throwing the turkey across the kitchen floor.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jacqueline Wilson with her mother and father, Harry and Biddy in 1946. Photograph: Courtesy of Jacqueline WilsonHer parents would provoke each other, sometimes starting an argument just because they were bored. At other times they deliberately put her in the middle of their rows. “They’d do that naughty thing of appealing to me: who is right? I’d say, I’m not taking sides – and then they’d mimic me saying that.”She did find it stressful. “But when you’re growing up, all you know is your own family – you think this sort of thing is quite normal.”Although she could very easily lose herself in a book when she was a child, she struggled to do so during moments of high tension. “When my parents were actually rowing or when there was that awful sort of silence … I don’t think you can really block that out.”It is this kind of insight into the miseries of an unhappy childhood home that makes Wilson’s books so popular, giving her characters and plots an authenticity her readers can identify with. “I get so many letters and emails from children in the modern equivalent of the household I was brought up in. I think slightly dysfunctional families are actually more common than people realise. Children have to be adaptable a lot. It’s hard.”Wilson was deeply affected by the tensions. She developed a nervous cough and sucked her thumb. Instead of Wilson, who was a shy child, Biddy wanted a chirpy, confident daughter like Shirley Temple, “a cute little girl with lots of bouncy ringlets”.Wilson has opened up to readers before about her relationship with her parents – in her 2007 autobiography for children, Jacky Daydream – but because her mother was still alive she avoided the level of detail she can now reveal. As Wilson describes in that book, she felt as if she was one of the antique dolls her mother collected.“My mother kept me immaculate. When I was little, she changed me several times a day and permed my hair. Even as a teenager, she chose all my clothes. She was a terribly dominant person and very controlling – as a child, I was trained to think she was perfect.”Wilson, who has sold more than 35 million books and is one of the most-borrowed authors of the past two decades, says her mother never read her novels. “When she was asked why, she said it was because they were children’s books.”Although she has always responded emotionally to films and books about unhappy families, Wilson says she never sets out to make things difficult or tense in her books. It just comes out that way. “When I write the first draft, I write it for myself. Each time I think, right, I’ll surprise everybody now and write about a really close, loving family. But I just can’t seem to do it. There’s a sort of template in my head for writing a novel – and I just have to trust it.”Clover Moon by Jacqueline Wilson will be published by Doubleday on 6 OctoberLIFE IN BRIEFBorn 17 December 1945 in Bath.Most famous book The Story of Tracy Beaker, about a 10 year-old girl living in a children’s home. Turned into a CBBC TV show, which ran for five years.Recognition Numerous awards including the Guardian Children’s Fiction Prize. Awarded the OBE in 2002 and became Dame Jacqueline in 2008What fellow writers say‘She’s so good, it’s exhilarating.’Philip PullmanHer novels will ‘undoubtedly stand the test of time’. Malorie Blackman