Inside the Factory: How Our Favourite Foods Are Made8pm, BBC2It’s the return of the series that dons high-visibility vests and hairnets to go behind the scenes of some of the UK’s biggest factories, beginning in a monumental Kellogg’s facility in Manchester. Here, Gregg Wallace witnesses the milling, toasting and sugary cement-mixing that goes to make Crunchy Nut Cornflakes. Meanwhile, co-presenter Cherry Healey stages a porridge showdown to see who has a ninja spurtle. Graeme VirtueNew Zealand: Earth’s Mythical Islands 9pm, BBC2The louche voiceover may be reminiscent of a Matt Berry spoof but, overall, this series is proving another striking addition to the BBC’s nature portfolio. Having evolved in isolation for 80m years, New Zealand’s wildlife is full of bizarre singularities. From the giant snail sucking up a worm like it is spaghetti to an insect that in effect comes back from the dead after freezing, this ecosystem is full of peculiar surprises. Phil HarrisonThe Job Interview 9pm, Channel 4From operating theatres and classrooms to marriage-guidance sessions and now job interviews, nowhere is off limits for the fixed-rig doc makers of today. This week, a digital-marketing firm is looking for a new recruit, and we meet a high-end plane-food company searching for someone who can cater to its millionaire clientele. Arguably voyeuristic, but the human element and unscripted laughs are what makes this genre the Rasputin of primetime telly. Hannah J DaviesBig Brother: Live Final 9pm, Channel 5Never before has a Big Brother been so cruel, so the housemates will be trembling in fear of what the live final has in store. Emma Willis, expert shepherd of wannabe celebrities, hosts this chance to say goodbye to the series famous for two houses and too many twists. Once the winner has been crowned and vacated the area, get ready for Thursday’s delicious Celebrity Big Brother opener, in all its awkward “And what do you do?” glory. Hannah VerdierVice Principals 9.35pm, Sky AtlanticThis HBO comedy starring Walton Goggins and Danny McBride as two teachers jealous of their new African-American female principal has already proven controversial. Some think it deals too indelicately with issues of white self-pity when racial sensitivities are high. It’s broad and flawed but also fitfully funny and worth sticking with. Tonight, the pair meet their nemesis, Dr Brown. David StubbsWasted 10pm, E4With its trippy camera work, surreal gags and a slew of cultural references, this riotous new six-part comedy about west-country slackers is highly indebted to Simon Pegg, Jessica Stevenson and Edgar Wright’s Spaced. In the first episode of tonight’s double bill, head shop owners Morpheus and Sarah, tattoo artist Alison and failed DJ Kent search for a stash of ecstasy from the 90s. Meanwhile, the second episode sees “spirit guide” Sean Bean – in his Ned Stark garb – help out the gang after a messy night in Bath. HJDImagine: Georgia O’Keeffe – By Myself 10.45pm, BBC1“I thought someone would tell me how to paint landscapes. But I never found that person.” Georgia O’Keeffe may have begun life as a farmgirl from Wisconsin but her abstract, if sensual and provocative, paintings would see her become one of the foremost modernists of the 20th century. To coincide with a Tate Modern retrospective, Alan Yentob explores the life of “perhaps the most inspiring female artist ever”. Ali CatterallFilm ChoiceGloria (Sebastián Lelio, 2013) 1.25am, Film4Paulina García’s Gloria is a vivacious divorcee, out to have a good time clubbing and possibly meet a new love – and it seems she does, in the charismatic, fun-loving Rodolfo (Sergio Hernández). Trouble is, life seems complicated for mature Santiago singletons; family matters and past lives intrude on both sides, lending a poignant edge to this sexy, sophisticated romantic drama. Paul HowlettLive sportInternational Cricket: England v Pakistan The final day’s play from Old Trafford, if the game hasn’t already been resolved. 10.30am, Sky Sports 2Football: Juventus v Tottenham Pre-season friendly action live from, you guessed it, Melbourne. 10.45am, Sky Sports 1Racing: Glorious Goodwood Live coverage of the first day of the prestigious flat-racing festival. 1.35pm, Channel 4