The Wrong Mans review – audacious and ambitious, it got everything right Stephen Campbell Moore is sitting in the back of a Land Rover, talking about spirit animals, while dressed as a pink stag. The damp, cerise fabric of The Go-Between actor’s furry onesie is matted and filthy thanks to a relentless Scottish downpour and the unforgiving terrain. The cast of new BBC2 comedy thriller Stag have been killing time between takes in a saturated forest overlooking Loch Lomond, working out which animals they’d all be. It’s the sort of conversation you might hear during a real stag party, though the one Campbell Moore and co are currently filming features a fair bit more blood.Stag, the work of Jim Field Smith (who directed hit BBC2 comedy The Wrong Mans) and co-writer George Kay (The Hour, My Mad Fat Diary), follows Campbell Moore’s posh groom and his entitled, pampered stag party on a hunting expedition in the Scottish Highlands. Tagging along reluctantly is the bride’s brother, Ian (Jim Howick), a modest geography teacher ill at ease among these braying bankers and their clashing egos. As the river swells, they become stranded and an unseen killer starts to pick them off, one by one. “They appear initially like a homogenous, monstrous, guffawing human caterpillar of twats,” says Field Smith. “But as time progresses, we dissect them and find that their supposed loyalty and camaraderie is paper thin.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Reece Shearsmith webchat – as it happened Ian is not enjoying the stag do, even before the killing starts. We’ve all been Ian, compelled to endure enforced “fun”, baffled by others seeming to enjoy the compulsory bantz’n’lolz. Of the all-male cast on set today, not one of them admits to having taken pleasure in a stag do. Except for Reece Shearsmith (playing embittered accountant Wendy) who talks fondly of his own, organised by best man and League Of Gentleman co-creator Steve Pemberton. Fittingly, they went on a ghost walk around Rye, then played board games and were in bed by 9.30pm. It’s not exactly tank paintballing or shark fishing in South Africa.Howick (AKA useless Gerard in Peep Show), is spot on as the unassuming Ian, eyes of the audience. “He’s such a brilliant, likable man,” says Shearsmith. “Everything is filtered through his normality and their skewed entitlement.”“Jim really stepped up to carry the weight of the show on his shoulders,” adds Field Smith. This even extended to performing his own stunts, something Howick admits he was afraid of. “I was always the kid at the top of the tree who refused to jump. And now, you arrive and everyone’s up a mountain. You have no choice but to conquer your fears just getting to the set, never mind performing.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jim Howick as Ian in Stag. Photograph: Des Willie/BBCPilou Asbæk: ‘I didn’t know what I had with Borgen’ Assembled in this beautiful but unforgiving spot with Campbell Moore, Shearsmith and Howick today are Crashing star Amit Shah as The Mexican – a rather more timid co-worker with a secret (and yes, the banker-wankers all have nicknames). Then there’s Rufus Jones (from Hunderby and W1A), who plays pompous TV exec Cosmo, and JJ Feild (Captain America, Austenland) as gung-ho public school friend Ledge. Bringing up the noisy rear is Borgen star Pilou Asbæk as the wild-eyed Neils, like a stretched, Danish Brian Blessed in an anorak. “Free food,” he booms keenly when the lunch trolley arrives. Not around for a soaking today is schoolfriend Aitken, played by comedian and poet Tim Key. His fate is plain to see from the trailer. “Oh, that is a shame,” he says flatly as a harpoon bolt bursts through his abdomen.Like the fictional party, the ensemble cast is an unlikely fit, a mix of comic performers and dramatic actors. Says Jones: “It’s like Christmas Day at the Somme – comedians and actors meet in the middle and have a game of three-and-in. You get really good results when that happens, I think.”Today’s location could accurately be described as the very back of beyond. The unit driver taking us to the peak overlooking Faslane nuclear naval base (home of the Trident submarines) warns us to hang on as the Land Rover goes vertical on the final climb. We arrive to find a forest clinging to the hillside and in it no trailers, no toilet, no catering truck. Just damp people among the trees, some under golf umbrellas, the rest hunched in hoods. A former special-forces operative, Derek, is on hand to look after health and safety. If you’re going for dramatic truth, it turns out, you’re best off putting your cast through the same hell as their characters: constant rain; isolation from the rest of humanity; nature in its rawest state. And no phone signal.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rufus Jones, JJ Feild ad Amit Shah as Cosmo, Ledge and The Mexican in Stag. Photograph: Jim Field-Smith/BBCJames Corden and The Wrong Mans - in pictures Still, everyone is surprisingly jolly. “Stag is essentially Eton becomes The Eaten,” quips Jones, who spends the day in full pea coat and man-bag Sloane uniform, replaying the same gruesome scene as the body (or what’s left of it) of one stag is carried into a clearing. “Half the west’s nuclear silos are in these hills,” he says. “It’s also an area for military manoeuvres. One of the crew went for a pee, got 10 seconds in and heard a ‘Sshhhh’. He looked down and he was peeing on a soldier in full camouflage.”There’s a sense that the men are getting a kick out of playing at survival – like a real stag party but with a lot less high-fiving and brewskies. Even the Danes can’t escape the tradition. Asbæk says: “In Denmark we say polterabend – it’s a German word. You take the bachelor out, get him hammered and harass him for 24 hours. And it often ends with a striptease.” Despite his obvious love of drinking and roaring (back in the hotel bar), he hopes never to experience one himself.For all its British humour, Stag does have a European flavour. The horror amid the mountains recalls Michael Haneke’s brilliantly sadistic Funny Games or André Ovredal’s Trollhunter. Asbæk likens the mise en scene to the Scandi-noir produced in his own country. “It’s very Nordic. It’s dark, it’s gritty and it’s raining. It’s like being home.”Once relationships are established and the group, guided by James Cosmo’s Highland gamekeeper, head into the wilderness, it’s minutes before they are buttocks to the wind and wading through a river. Field Smith says: “They have to go through a rite of passage to enter this weekend, to test them as men. So the idea of stripping them naked and making them cross a raging torrent was very appealing to us.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pilou Asabaek as Neils in Stag. Photograph: Des Willie/BBCJust when you’re settling into a binary split between the objectionable tossers and dependable Ian, the relationships change. “The perhaps impossible task we set ourselves,” says Field Smith, “was to present a bunch of punchable pricks who you’d happily watch be killed in a variety of ways but then, against the odds, you actually start to want them – all of them, not just Ian – to survive.” But the reasons you begin to soften towards them are hard to discuss without revealing plot twists. To add to the military feel of the production, information is on a strictly need-to-know basis for the cast. Shearsmith says: “As the read-through went on, we were asked to leave when we’d finished our bit.” Only the last ones standing got the full script.Field Smith has a habit of bringing a Hollywood sensibility to television comedy. It’s what so set The Wrong Mans apart visually from any other comedy on British television. “He makes it look like a big-budget film,” agrees Campbell Moore. That cheerful confidence – “Living the dream!” he bellows encouragingly at his sodden cast – seems to inspire total belief in those game enough to follow him. They’re not wrong. The huge sullen skies and grim peaks of Stag’s three, hour-long episodes belong in a blockbuster, not a sitcom.So which spirit animal did the cast decide on for Field Smith? Silverback gorilla, an actual stag?“Jim is a dolphin,” says Campbell Moore. “It’s not about what you look like, it’s about how you behave. He moves very fast, does a lot of stuff and makes it look incredibly easy.”Stag is on Saturday, 9pm, BBC2