Damon Albarn – Sunset Coming OnI’m just back from Mali, where there was drumming, dancing and celebration in the griot village of Kirina, as Damon Albarn was honoured for his work helping Malian music – and for returning to the country even after tourists had been advised to keep away after the terrorist attack in November. Earlier, he had performed in Bamako with a band who mixed African instruments with cello and violin. Of course they included Sunset Coming On, from the 2002 album Mali Music. Here’s the original version.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Three Cane Whale – Winchester GeeseAlex Vann, Pete Judge and Paul Bradley are a Bristol-based trio who between them play 20 instruments, from harp and trumpet to mandolin and zither. Their instrumental work is intricate, elegant and charmingly quirky, as they prove with pieces such as Winchester Geese on their new album, Palimpsest.Baaba Maal – KalaajoBaaba Maal’s new album The Traveller is his first in seven years, and a welcome improvement on the adventurous but patchy Television. This is one of the three new songs he played at his recent Festival Hall show, a gutsy tale of travel and the Fulani people. On this album version the backing musicians include Johan Hugo of the Very Best, and there’s bass work from Ted Dwayne of Mumford & Sons.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Show of Hands – Breme Fell at HastingsHere’s the opening track from The Long Way Home, the new album by West Country folk heroes Show of Hands. It’s written by Steve Knightley, and is a typically original, personal history lesson: a lament for the losers in 1066, and for the loss of Saxon culture and identity. It opens with Michael Wood speaking in Saxon.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sidestepper – Come See Us PlayWhen Richard Blair first started Sidestepper the aim was to create dancefloor tunes, mixing drum’n’bass influences with Latin styles from Colombia. Now, he’s stopped programming electronic beats and created a new approach rooted in earlier Colombian styles, with the beats created from hand drums, shakers, flutes and guitar. And he still creates slinky, infectious dance music. This is the first single from the new Sidestepper album Supernatural Love.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Moh! Kouyaté – YélléMoh! Kouyaté was born in Guinea, and is now based in Paris, where he has built up a strong local following thanks to his solo work and collaborations with the likes of Fatoumata Diawara. His first solo album, Loundo (Un Jour), shows off his relaxed vocals and gently commanding guitar work. Here’s a live version of one of the best songs, Gassata.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Leveret – The Good Old WayLeveret are a trio of classy instrumentalists best known for their work with other bands. Sam Sweeney is a fiddle-player with Bellowhead, among others, Andy Cutting has played accordion with Martin Simpson, Chris Wood and many more, while Rob Harbron’s concertina can be heard with the Full English or the Fay Hield band. Rather than following arrangements, they work spontaneously, and their new album In the Round was recorded live in the round church in Stoney Middleton, Derbyshire. Here’s the opening track, The Good Old Way.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Lucinda Williams – FactoryLucinda Williams’ new album The Ghosts of Highway 20 is an intimate, pained set inspired by the interstate that runs through Louisiana, where she grew up. There are stories of guilt, religion and loss, with Williams’ weathered voice helped by brooding guitar work from the great Bill Frisell. The Springsteen song Factory fits perfectly into the mix.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Edward II – Dirty Old TownEdward II specialise in mixing reggae with British folk songs, and for their latest project Manchester’s Improving Daily, released in mid-February, they concentrate on ballads from the city that date back to the Industrial Revolution. The new album also incudes a more recent song, a reggae version of Ewan McColl’s song of Salford life, Dirty Old Town.Duhks – Suffer No FoolsThe Duhks – pronounced “ducks” – are a Canadian band led by banjo virtuoso Leonard Podolak. They started in 2001, winning awards and a Grammy nomination before taking a two-year break after the departure of singer Jessee Havey. Now reformed, with a lineup that still includes Podolak and the returned Havey, they played their first London show in 12 years last month. And they were on impressive form, with songs that included this sad and thoughtful waltz.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 