It seems an age ago now, and it was. Between 1972 and 1982, I wrote a weekly column about television, and by the end of my stint I preened myself as being fairly clued up on the subject. I signed off with a confident prediction that the droll sarcasm of the desk sergeant Phil Esterhaus (Michael Conrad) in Hill Street Blues was about as clever as American television would ever get. For a couple of decades it looked as if I might be right – and then the cable channels, arising out of nowhere, suddenly outflanked the networks, which, in their turn, were obliged to raise their game.Since my polite but insidious form of leukaemia was diagnosed in early 2010, it has been more often dormant than not. Early on, a programme of chemo sent it into remission for nobody knew how long; perhaps months, perhaps more. The mystery span of time turned out to be a full five years, during which the doctors worked with some success on subsidiary problems, and I was able to function professionally almost as well as President Bartlet in The West Wing, whose undeclared disease did not inhibit him in his capacity to bomb the Middle East, outfox Chinese diplomats, or deal with the frightening facial mobility of Stockard Channing in a fit of anger.In the five years before the latest crisis, I used up a lot of my blessed supply of extra time by reading. But I was also viewing, and I mean viewing everything. You might ask how a man who spent his days with the major poems of Browning could wish to spend his evenings with the minor movies of Chow Yun-Fat, but I could only reply that it was a need buried deep in my neural network. Even in my weakness, my habit (once a VHS habit, but the dealers re-upped with some great new stuff) had not grown less.There was a time when the instruction Play All didn’t even exist. But now it’s in our lives, and especially it’s in the lives of those of us who have run so short of time that time no longer matters, and who are thus able to choose exactly what we want to see next. Shall I spend the better part of tomorrow afternoon making further inroads into the novels of Sir Walter Scott? Or shall I join my daughter in watching four episodes of Dexter? All right, five.The West Wing: ‘The most elaborately eloquent dialogue since the great screwball comedies’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Left to right: Martin Sheen, Richard Schiff and Rob Lowe in season one of The West Wing. Photograph: Rex Features The word “created” always looks excessive when it pops up among the titles on a screen, but in Aaron Sorkin’s case it fits. Working on his own, he could seldom do structure: he has a frat-house penchant for slapstick, and his idea of a climax can be a ceiling falling on the hero’s head. But The West Wing had so much potential that there was very soon no question of Sorkin working alone. Though he did much of the writing (possibly too much for his health) there was a whole organisation toiling to keep him on the racing line, and he was left free to exploit his best gift, which is for the most elaborately eloquent dialogue since the great days of Hollywood screwball comedy.Before The West Wing started, I had laughed at Allison Janney in Drop Dead Gorgeous, noticed her gangly pathos in Primary Colors, and put together a mental collection of cameos that added up to a favourable impression; but the impression was the merest hint of the display of virtuosity she would unfold as CJ Cregg, and could give not even a token of its depth. When Danny brings the wrong goldfish to CJ’s office and gets himself kissed at long last, it is one of the great love scenes in the American hall of heroic imagery; and when she mourns for her demented father, and seethes against the policy of affirmative action, it is, on its quiet and contained level, great tragedy. After the show ended Janney was back to doing cameos, and on the right night, with the right accidental click on the remote, you can see her swapping quips with Charlie Sheen in a rerun of Two And A Half Men. Wrong Sheen. This is the way America would like the occupant of the Oval Office to be: omniscient, an ethical giant, a poet king The show’s heroes and heroines are all given their stature by the words Sorkin gives them to say. It’s an elementary point that should need no emphasising, but it needs to be hammered home. On the page, a Sorkin speech already includes most of the timing required for its delivery. This remained true for the dialogue even after Sorkin left the show, having written every episode of the first four seasons. He had created a style, and his producer, John Wells, took it from there.For any viewer the age of me or my wife, the only problem with the slow-burning romance of Josh Lyman and Donna Moss was the high speed of what they said, often during long walking talks down corridors. (Luckily we had two keen-eared daughters to translate.) But none of the quick talk would have seemed in keeping if the president had spoken like Eisenhower or George Bush. The tone and the pace are set by Jed Bartlet, an exemplary use of the charismatic central hero, a phenomenon which some stories can do without, but without which this story would be dead.Bartlet is an intellectual president. In other words, he is really Aaron Sorkin himself, correctly intuiting that this is the way America, and indeed the whole free world, would like the occupant of the Oval Office to be: omniscient, energetic, an ethical giant, a poet king.It is almost impossible to portray a political hero without romanticising him. Sorkin came close, making a questioning, troubled intellect seem a desirable quality for a politician to have, even in an era where the soundbite had come to power. With its probing, dialectical treatment of every liberal issue, including race, The West Wing reminded the world that America had intellectual capacity behind its economic muscle, and surely helped prepare the way for Barack Obama’s election.Breaking Bad v Weeds: ‘Gus Fring gives us one of the most stunning images in any drama’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Aaron Paul and Bryan Cranston in Breaking Bad.My daughter Lucinda sat through the whole of Breaking Bad with me and agreed perhaps too readily with my laughing suggestion that cooking crystal meth might have been one of the ways I could have gone; but my wife gave up watching, unable, much to my relief, to find the character plausible. Perhaps her opinion was a tribute to the NHS, which ensures that no man stricken with a terminal illness need find a way of raising a quick few million.I found Walter White plausible but dull. Failed chemists in America no doubt turn into drug overlords every day, but do they walk around in their underpants with their mouths open? It was that last part that set me nodding. Even my granddaughter gives me credit for the work that goes into my Benedict Cumberbatch impersonation: it’s quite a strain on the corners of the mouth, pulling them down like that without using your fingers. But nobody gave me credit for my impersonation of Walter White. I would keep my mouth sagging open for 10 minutes at a time, but nobody gave me an Emmy. I should be more reverent, because the show was a huge hit. Bryan Cranston, who had to outdo Spencer Tracy in transforming himself from mild to monstrous, was much praised for carrying the show, along with Anna Gunn as his wife, Skyler, bravely adjusting herself to the realisation that her husband is a lying head case, as so many wives must.I found Walter hard to sympathise with even when he was reduced to his underpants, and I speak as someone who has done unspeakable things to stay in business: I once voluntarily interviewed the Spice Girls. Luckily White has a brother-in-law, the DEA agent Hank Schrader, played by Dean Norris, who is marvellous at inhabiting the mental territory somewhere between implacable detective and plodding knucklehead. Another plus is the secretive drugs mastermind Gus Fring (Giancarlo Esposito), who proves that a black criminal kingpin can be as smart as Stringer Bell in The Wire and still live. Or almost proves it: in the end he presents us with one of the most stunning images in all the box set dramas when he walks toward us through a doorway with one side of his head missing. There is also Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk), a fast-talking shyster who looked set from the start to have his own series one day, as Frasier did after his first few speeches in Cheers.Walter’s apprentice cook, Jesse Pinkman, was played by Aaron Paul as the most unbearable punk since the one Clint Eastwood blew away in Dirty Harry. Unfortunately, from my viewpoint, nobody blew away Jesse Pinkman before my patience was exhausted. Lucinda, who quite liked him, told me to stop being irrational, but I would put a cushion over my face rather than watch those unnaturally perfect teeth bared at me again. Why Walter didn’t upend his rebarbative assistant into a vat of bubbling acid was a mystery.Vince Gilligan almost ditched Breaking Bad when he heard that HBO was going to make Weeds. He would have been wrong to do so – hundreds of millions of dollars wrong – but there is a case for Weeds being the better product. It has a better subject, simply because the central figure is a law-abiding woman, not a law-abiding man, turning criminal to cope with adversity: we don’t expect it (perhaps it is patronising of us not to). In Breaking Bad, Walter copes by dispensing chemical danger to thousands of people. In Weeds, Nancy copes by doing nothing worse than growing the soft and fragrant high that got so many of us through our belated adolescence, back there when the guitar licks of Jefferson Airplane floated sweetly over a crowded field of smoke. In fact Mary-Louise Parker looks a bit like Grace Slick.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In the course of seven seasons of Weeds, Mary-Louise Parker’s Nancy gets through three husbands and leaves every male in the cast looking like an appendage. Photograph: AllstarI soon got past my idée fixe that Parker was really the girlfriend Josh might have married instead of Donna. In The West Wing she was just another knockout female highbrow with a fistful of PhDs, but in Weeds she copes in the way that so many of us fatherless ones learned to admire in our youth. A lasting tribute to the female showrunner Jenji Kohan, Nancy is a heroic figurehead for womanly competence, a Florence Nightingale with incense in her lamp. In the course of seven seasons she gets through three husbands and leaves every male in the cast looking like an appendage.The show is vast in emotional scope and I still haven’t finished watching it, but nor have I quite dealt with its basic proposition that integrity can be maintained in a criminal context. Would the story work at all if it paid due attention to the insistence by John Phillips that pot was the gateway to hard drugs and grim death? Phillips loved the sweet music, too (as a member of the Mamas And The Papas he created more than his share of it) but he wasn’t fooled by the notion that a tie-dyed T-shirt was an expression of wisdom, and his argument – backed up by his glittering track record as someone who tried to kill himself with every known substance – that marijuana is the enticing entrance to needle park has yet to be answered.The Scandinavians: ‘It is hard to get a job as a cop unless you are as boring as hell’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Bridge’s Saga Norén (Sofia Helin) has a case of near-autistic something-or-other which would make any hetero male viewer think twice about angling for a lift in her Porsche. Photograph: BBCThroughout the box set years, the Swedes, Danes and Norwegians have done their best to keep crime ugly. Sarah Lund (Sofie Gråbøl), the head girl in The Killing, is not Mary-Louise Parker from any angle. Lund is a thin bundle of neuroses plunged into the gloom of a bad sweater. In The Bridge, the head girl Saga Norén (Sofia Helin) has a case of near-autistic something-or-other which would make any hetero male viewer think twice about angling for a lift in her Porsche, although it’s probably true that any hetero male viewer would think of it once. At one point we see her having sex and she is under him, over him and off him in a matter of seconds, like the Scandinavian version of the female black widow spider, the one that carries a textbook on how to form normal relationships.And these are just the cops. The criminals really get you down. Most of them are serial killers spreading terror in the standard Scandinavian ambience in which the lights are turned off even indoors, so that sometimes you have to search for the little green diode to make sure your TV set is still on. Sarah, don’t go into that Stygian stairwell! You might shoot your partner accidentally! Oh.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sofie Gråbøl as Sarah Lund in The Killing. Photograph: BBCEven in the dark, however, it is made clear that a serial killer is a rare event, just as it is a rare event for someone to drop litter or travel without a ticket. This is Scandinavia, after all, and the scene is basically clean. Basically but not reassuringly. Far from it: under the cleanliness there is a current of angst, like someone weird softly reading aloud from Kierkegaard’s Fear And Trembling.And there is also the boredom. It is hard to get a job as a cop unless you are as boring as hell. (Saga is the spectacular Scandi cop because she not only stares at the wall, she occasionally stares at the wall for a long time.) I blame Wallander, who has been boring the world for so long that three actors have played him if you count Kenneth Branagh. Of the two Swedish Wallanders, Rolf Lassgård tries to make the character interesting by looking around a lot, often approaching the looking-around record that Ben Kingsley established in Species; but the other, and by far preferable, Wallander, Krister Henriksson, accepts his northern destiny and just looks worried, like your dull cousin fretting about his tax return. Fretting away during the slow solution of a not very interesting crime, Henriksson will stare out to sea as if wondering why Scandinavian waves are so small and dull.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Krister Henriksson’s worried Wallander.Scandi politics is different. Though the level of lighting is still not high, Borgen seems designed to get you running to the airport for a standby flight to whichever of those double-glazed countries has the greatest number of female politicians. The central character, Birgitte Nyborg, is fascinating not just because of her situation – how can she keep her family life together while being prime minister? – but because she is played by Sidse Babett Knudsen. With the radiantly intelligent Knudsen in the picture, Birgitte’s headquarters generates something of the same witty tempo as The West Wing. Her brilliant but twisted young adviser Kasper (Pilou Asbæk) could be Josh Lyman with his anxiety neurosis not yet diagnosed, and the media darling Katrine (Birgitte Hjort Sørensen) is a combination of Ainsley Hayes and Donna Moss, with enough teeth for both. Call the show The North Wing in conversation and people will know what you mean.It all sounds vaguely as if Aaron Sorkin had dictated it into a tape recorder while imitating a drunken German officer with a speech impediment, but one puts one’s trust in the subtitles and tunes in for every episode, even after Birgitte falls from power. She suddenly then seems much more ordinary, although the women in my family assure me that I’m a clear case of what Birgitte was up against all along.Homeland and House Of Cards: ‘Danes seizes the challenge with knotted hands and tossing head’      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Through more seasons than seems possible, Claire Danes has been devouring the screen as Carrie Mathison in Homeland. Photograph: ShowtimeNone of us predicted that Homeland, after its huge initial impact, would be reduced to triviality in little more than a single season, although we should have. At first blush, the story had everything, including a supremely irritating daughter. But when the hero Sergeant Brody (Damian Lewis) came back to the US from his tortured imprisonment in Afghanistan and slowly revealed himself as a convert to Islam programmed to stage a suicide bombing, even the most riveted viewers realised that this might be a neat variation on The Manchurian Candidate but that Brody, win or lose, would be either blown or blown up. He could therefore have only a limited future as a character.This having proved true, beautiful, bipolar CIA officer Carrie Mathison (Claire Danes) became the centre of interest. (CIA veteran sage Saul Berenson, played by Mandy Patinkin, did noble work in the wise-man tradition of Gandalf and Obi-Wan Kenobi.) Plotwise, all depended on Carrie focusing her scrambled brains in the interests of world peace. Danes seized the challenge with knotted hands and tossing head. Through more seasons than seems possible she has been devouring the screen, looking into every corner of it while speaking compulsively even when she is supposed to be inconspicuous in a crowded Arab market, nodding her head to mean no, shaking her head to mean yes. By now she has to do it without me watching, but I know she will bravely continue. The British House Of Cards is big in my family, but I’m the dissenter. I find Ian Richardson too obviously machiavellian To be persuasive on screen, the covert personality needs a capacity for cool. The arch-exponent of this for our time is Kevin Spacey. In The Usual Suspects he looked like Kevin Spacey with a limp, but perhaps he was really Keyser Söze. In K-Pax he looked like Kevin Spacey with a phenomenal ability to chalk equations on a blackboard, but perhaps he was really from a faraway galaxy. So when he arrived in the leading role of House Of Cards, he already had a solid track record of perhaps being someone else. He was immediately credible as a careerist politician because he didn’t look like an actor: he never has. Most leading men have sculpted features. Spacey’s features just happened, like a Rorschach blot.In the BBC’s original, Ian Richardson looked and spoke exactly like an actor: the eagle’s profile, the cultivated voice that projected itself to the gallery of the Old Vic even when he murmured. The British House Of Cards is big in my family, but I’m the dissenting vote. I find Richardson too obviously machiavellian, his female victims insufficiently alluring to attract his fatal attentions, and the rats too symbolic: they get a walk-on role once per episode. The American version I found a smoother ride, and thus more convincing.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright in the US House Of Cards. Photograph: Patrick HarbronAs Frank Underwood, the ruthless Democrat working his way to the top by all means however illegal, Spacey is mercifully not obliged, as Richardson was, to hum The Ride Of The Valkyries as an indication that he is gripped by the will to power. Instead he is given an even more lavish supply of knowing asides in which to transmit to us the thinking behind his evil. Add all these asides together and you would get a treatise comparable with The Prince, plus a long free lesson in what a great screen actor can do by seeming to interiorise his emotions when in closeup. If the scene has already made the point, Spacey will underline it with no more than a millimetre of raised eyebrow – and nil by mouth. (Bad actors try to attract attention to their mouths; good ones know our attention is already there.)Another strength of the show is Robin Wright as Claire Underwood, Frank’s wife. She starts off as passive-aggressive, escalates to active-aggressive, and finally soars into the range of aggressive-insane; and all the way up the scale her smooth cool is playing against her behaviour and therefore helping to define it. If, like Lady Macbeth, she ended up jumping from the battlements, she would fly like a bird.For anyone who started following Wright’s performances with The Princess Bride – my daughter Claerwen, when very young, used to make me watch it until I, too, could recite Mandy Patinkin’s thrilling speech in the role of Inigo Montoya, and “Prepare to die!” is still a code phrase for the two of us – this is the apex of her beauty, even though (or perhaps partly because) it is accelerated by the burning internal fire of psychopathy that she somehow manages to convey by a hard stare, or an unexpected silence.The mark of a great show is that every leading character is your favourite, and my favourite of favourites is Frank’s aide de camp, Doug Stamper, played by Michael Kelly in full grimness mode: a reformed alcoholic, this guy is never off the alert. The enabler is a strong role in any gangster plot, but Doug is the perfect instrument: an expression of Frank’s will at its lethal worst. For American TV, for anybody’s TV, this is amazing stuff.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The trailer for season one of the US House Of Cards.The whole show feels like a realistic antidote to romanticism, right up to the moment when Frank becomes president, after which an incurable decline sets in. Previously, House Of Cards was The West Wing dissolved in acid. Then it was The West Wing all over again. Having attained the top role, Frank began playing the part straight, because there was no other way to play it. To operate plausibly on the international stage, he had to do the best that was in him. He was Jed Bartlet reborn, just a bit tougher on his staff.***My 10-year-old granddaughter has a box set of all 10 seasons of Friends, and I am allowed to watch along with her as she ploughs through the whole thing yet again. She doesn’t seem even slightly fazed by the mentions of sex. I could wish that she were more bothered by the laugh track, which is, in my professional experience, a bad thing to have around even when comedy has been genuinely achieved: mechanical laughter is a false intensifier. But she seems to understand that instinctively, and brush it off. The next generation, and then the next generation after that, are always more technically sophisticated than you expect.My granddaughter understands how Basil Fawlty gets his laughs. When Basil instructs Manuel to hide behind the reception desk, she knows that Basil is sure to forget Manuel is there, and will later trip over him. When we watch the sushi bar scene in Johnny English yet again, she knows that Rowan Atkinson is looking knowledgeable about Japanese food only to multiply the effect when he gets his tie caught in the conveyor belt. It is a language: the language of setup, structure, development and fulfilment. She speaks it already.I took a long time to learn it, and soon I will speak it no more. But it will go on being spoken for as long as all these marvellous people are free to create. What a festival they have given us, and how hard it is to leave.This is an edited extract from Play All by Clive James, published by Yale University Press on 20 August at £14.99. To order a copy for £12.29, visit the Guardian Bookshop.