Music, wine, flowers and cheese: what better way to escape the stresses of the world than with a summer picnic? So Frenchy So Chic (SFSC) is the annual celebration of all things French and this year’s picnic in Bicentennial Park was as popular as ever.So Frenchy, So Chic: sunshine, great food, and rap from the banlieues Held in both Sydney and Melbourne, this year marks the festival’s first year in its new home on the foreshore of Rozelle Bay in Glebe. Until now, the Sydney SFSC has taken place on the lawns of St John’s College, in the slim shadows of the University of Sydney’s sandstone buildings. The park may be a little less romantic but it’s spacious, there’s much more shade and a cool breeze drifting off the water. And, as we arrive, the dreamy vocals of chanteuse Sophie Maurin drifting beyond the festival grounds sets the tone for the day. SFSC is arguably the best-dressed festival in town and the most Insta-ready. Floaty summer dresses and heels are de rigueur for the mostly female attendees, while the men wear loafers and tailored shorts. There aren’t quite as many Breton T-shirts in evidence this year but still plenty of flower crowns, available for purchase from two stands. Not far from where we spread out our picnic blanket, a group of women in pale frocks are partaking in a very classy, very polite bachelorette party.The food on offer is, of course, excellent. There are crepes and moules, calamari and fries, croissants and macarons, and oodles of cheese, carefully selected from Sydney’s top French restaurants. It’s pricey but delicious, with plenty of Kronenbourg bierre blanc and Laurent-Perrier champagne being quaffed by the crowd.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A member of the French band Deluxe, playing at So Frenchy So Chic. Photograph: So Frenchy So ChicThe festival excels at including the younger attendees. Those under 12 get in for free and there are numerous activities, including drumming, croquet and life-size chess, to keep them occupied. Small faces painted with sparkly butterflies weave through the crowd and toddlers and tweens chase bubbles across the lawn. Indeed it’s a festival for all generations and there are plenty of grandparents keeping a watchful eye on those energetic kids, while parents sit back and sip champagne.Although SFSC is ostensibly a music festival, only a portion of the well-heeled crowd pays close attention to what’s happening on stage. Those who do are rewarded by top-class French acts including the Breton singer-songwriter Bertrand Belin and garage pop band the Limiñanas.Nouvelle Vague is the pick of most of the French folk I know and the group, with its evolving line-up of singers, are SFSC alumni from its earliest days. They are best known for their covers of Joy Division’s Love Will Tear Us Apart, Billy Idol’s Dancing with Myself and Buzzcocks’ Ever Fallen in Love (With Someone You Shouldn’t Have), mostly with a signature bossa nova backbeat. Last year, they released a new album, I Could Be Happy, their first in six years, and for SFSC they mix in a smattering of their own songs and more obscure covers with the crowd favourites.Mona Foma: how a summer festival swamped me with ominous foreboding The final act – and musical highlight – is Deluxe. The funky six piece started in 2007 busking on the streets of Aix-en-Provence and they take obvious delight in their Australian stage debut. Singer Elisa Poublan aka Liliboy, clad in a golden halter top, red tights and sequinned moustache skirt quickly has the crowd on its feet, shaking off the day’s summery mellowness and jumping up and down on command. The other band members Kaya, Pietre, Kilo, Soubri and Pepe all join her at the front during the lengthy set, their energy contagious on the balmy night.Yet for all its dreaminess, by unfortunate coincidence, the Sydney SFSC is held on the same day as women’s marches are held across the world to protest against the election of the US president, Donald Trump. It feels more than a little decadent to be enjoying our raclette and saucisson as the world beyond our fabulous fenced off picnic upholds that other great French tradition of taking to the streets in protest. Still, in a world confronted with a potentially terrifying future, this is a beguiling and very welcome fantasy world. • So Frenchy So Chic Sydney took place at Bicentennial Park, Glebe