Something crazy is going on with Will & Grace. After posting a flurry of pictures on Instagram of the old cast hanging out, all four principals – Eric McCormack, Sean Hayes, Debra Messing, and Megan Mullally – posted pictures of themselves revisiting the set that made the show famous. Then there was the shot of all four of them on the couch that said: “We’re baaaaaaack.” Debra Messing (@DebraMessing)pic.twitter.com/L24cLigaTHSeptember 26, 2016The most leading tweet came from Messing, who said that something “BIG” was about to be announced. That seems to be a video both she and Hayes shared on Twitter. It appears to be an action movie trailer that says: “A band of heroes will assemble. To protect the world from aliens and destruction. Only an act of grace can save them. In their battle for what is right. Only they can bring America back from the brink.” This contains the hidden message “Will & Grace is back”, with each of those words highlighted in red through the 20-second trailer. While this would appear to be teasing another season of the classic sitcom, which ran for eight seasons starting in 1998, that might just be fans’ wishful thinking. Considering how successful each actor’s career has been post-sitcom, their dedicating themselves to another season of the show seems unlikely. If we look at both the language of the trailer Messing posted and at her Twitter feed in general, it seems more like the cast is reuniting to help Hillary Clinton in her bid to become the next US president. Messing has been very vocal about her support of the candidate on Twitter. As with most liberals these days, Messing’s support also involves bashing Clinton’s opponent Donald Trump. With the language in the trailer, using Trump’s keyword “aliens” and the talk of bringing America back from the brink, it seems as though Messing and company are reuniting to make some sort of video or campaign spot for the former secretary of state. Also, the final seconds of the trailer feature Mullally using her signature Karen Walker squeal to say, “Let’s make America bueno again,” a spin on Trump’s slogan and a swipe at his anti-immigrant rhetoric. These days, 90s nostalgia is one of the most powerful forces on the world, or at least on the internet. If these four actors can harness that energy for the past to get someone elected, then there might be hope for us – and Clinton – yet. 