In 2012, Richard DeDomenici ran ahead of the Olympic torch. Wearing a white tracksuit and wraparound sunglasses, he jogged past the crowds carrying a gold-painted cardboard cone, waving as he went. As he ran through Colchester, onlookers whooped and cheered. Union flags fluttered. After a while, a women in the audience spoke up: “It’s not lit, is it?” Confusion crept into the crowd. “There was no Olympic flame.” When DeDomenici did the same in London, his torch was confiscated.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch the video of Richard DeDomenici’s Olympic torch runDeDomenici’s art sets out to confound or, as he puts it, “to create the sort of uncertainty that leads to possibility”. This is the artist who created a full-scale igloo out of Kendal Mint Cake. He’s orchestrated public protests against himself, burning his own effigy on the streets of Berlin; sat on pavements holding cash out to passers-by (a process he calls “reverse begging”), and launched his own crocheted currency, the Knitcoin.He popped up on BBC4 last year with The Redux Project, as subversive a piece of television as there’s been in ages. Broadcast as part of Battersea Arts Centre’s Live at Television Centre, it was, ostensibly, a sketch show of sorts: a spoofish attempt to re-create iconic moments of BBC history, such as Blue Peter’s guest elephant, with homespun, amateurish re-enactments. Originally, the project began with Hollywood films such as The Matrix, reshooting iconic scenes in their original locations, revealing the banality beneath. Parts of Avengers: Age of Ultron, for instance, were shot in Norwich – as was DeDominici’s Redux video.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Expediting the ‘decanting’ of social residents … The Death of Social Housing by Richard DeDomenici, 2015. Photograph: David Sentosa/Something HumanIn fact, The Redux Project was a Trojan horse: a means for DeDomenici to “occupy” the airwaves, alter archive footage, critique mainstream mass media and, essentially, call for a popular revolution. “It was subversive,” he admits, when we meet for coffee, “but at the same time the BBC had commissioned it. Can you be a cog in the system and a spanner in the works? Can you subvert something from within?”Recognisable by his towering Mohawk, DeDomenici wrestles with his status as an artist more than most. He rarely describes what he does as art – partly not to put people off, partly to keep it uncanny – and struggles with the ramifications of funding. He’s turned down the Tate over BP, but worked for the British Council – “and that’s basically propaganda, isn’t it?”“A lot of artists I know have stopped making art because they think it’s pointless and decadent,” he tells me. DeDomenici lives cheaply for the sake of his art, timing supermarket trips to coincide with reduced items. “There are easier ways to make a living than being an artist, but equally, there are easier ways to change the world.” That’s what DeDomenici’s out to do. He works in the overlap between art, humour and activism – humour, because he believes laughter can disarm; activism, because he can’t do otherwise. His mother, a secretary for London Transport, used to take him on marches as a child: “I was pushed down Park Lane in a pushchair by Tony Benn.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest DeDomenici on his Kendal Mint Cake iglooThis month, as part of a festival about contemporary London, Whose London is it Anyway?, at Camden People’s theatre, DeDomenici will lead a funeral procession to mark the death of social housing. “Do you know what housing associations call it when they kick out social residents?” he asks. “Decanting. The most bourgeois term; an extra little kick in the teeth.” He isn’t unaffected himself, losing his studio to the great London property rush. “Artists get blamed for gentrification,” he says, “but they’re also very vulnerable to it.”Mostly, his work isn’t readily identifiable as protest. It’s weirder than that – sometimes smarter, sometimes sillier, usually both. He tends to disrupt public space to illustrate the underlying systems, power structures and prevailing economic norms, be that by confronting pedestrians with remote-controlled bombs or disguising himself as unattended baggage until the police show up. (“I go out of my way not to get arrested.”) Elsewhere, he’s more straightforwardly surreal, turning office chair-spinning into a sport or opening a pop-up restaurant serving airline food. The overall effect is like a random art-happenings generator. It’s as if DeDomenici uses idiocy as a disguise.The absurd comedy that is London's housing crisis The idea is to make an impression that might leave some question or doubt lingering – for life. “It always works best if you can tweak the way people look at the world in the tiniest little way. Just make them ask questions about things in a way they might otherwise not.” That’s how he changes the world: on an individual and, he believes, subconscious level – “which makes it very hard when applying for funding. You have to believe in some kind of quasi-mystical effect … ” The Death of Social Housing is at Camden People’s theatre, London, on 23 January.