Travel Man: 48 Hours in Seville8.30pm, Channel 4Return of the comedy travel series with Richard Ayoade. “This is travel without mercy,” he grins as he launches himself into 48 hours in Seville – “the frying pan of Europe” – along with tall American standup Rob Delaney. They compare hotel rooms, go jogging, admire architecture and re-enact A Fistful of Dollars. Like Top Gear or The Trip, it’s a format that lives or dies on the strength of its participants’ personal chemistry and banter, so Delaney is an excellent way to start. Julia RaesideBritain’s Whales8pm, ITVBen Fogle and Ellie Harrison meet Britain’s whales: mysterious creatures that hang around the shoreline in the summer. Britain is home to 25 kinds of whales and dolphins, which come to feast on plankton, mackerel and herring. On their travels, Fogle and Harrison see humpbacks, dolphins and whales the size of buses. There are beautiful scenes, but also sad ones as a female humpback washes up on the coast after getting trapped in fishing lines. Other impressive beasts can be seen in Britain’s Sharks at 9pm. Hannah VerdierBoomers9pm, BBC1As the sixtysomethings sitcom returns, it’s Trevor’s birthday. This means the gang have to spend the weekend at a campsite. Worse, at least from Alan’s perspective, the men have been entered in a charity bike race. Still, as John notes, the money is going to Age UK, so “you’re basically investing in your future”. Maureen, Carol and Joyce meet a Swedish lad who appears to have a penchant for older women. Fine performances from a cast that includes Alison Steadman, but not nearly enough risks. Jonathan WrightSpringwatch at Easter9pm, BBC2With spring ready to replace winter, Chris Packham and Michaela Strachan welcome the new season to Stackpole in Pembrokeshire. Along with the bluebells comes a brand new Do Something Great campaign, aiming to offer assistance to British wildlife via voluntary participation. Unafraid to muck in themselves, Michaela embarks on a beach-cleaning project, while Martin Hughes-Games becomes an honorary warden among the puffin population of the south Wales island of Skomer. Mark Gibbings-JonesJanis: Little Girl Blue9pm, BBC4“I look like a woman, not a pop star,” Janis Joplin once wrote; Amy Berg’s superb, poignant documentary captures this sense of her as both authentic feminist icon and – despite being wryly accepted as “one of the boys” – very much a square peg in the 1960s rock’n’roll patriarchy. Fellow southerner Cat Power gives voice to Joplin’s innermost thoughts via her letters, at once brash and cripplingly lonely, while archive performance footage reminds us how exquisite her molasses-strained-through-wire-wool delivery could be. Ali CatterallBlue Eyes9pm, More4Blue Eyes represents Sweden in the way we’ve seen it alluded to in the odd Wallander episode – with far-right sentiment on the rise. Here, the racist Security party is holding the balance of power in the run-up to the election. Some sinister business at the start of the episode means that the ruling party is looking for a new chief of staff as it tries to appease the electorate’s swivel-eyed faction, and Elin, keeping a low profile as a waitress (really?), is a strong candidate. Tense and promising. John RobinsonStan Lee’s Lucky Man9pm, Sky1It’s ironic that James Nesbitt’s detective Harry Clayton can count himself unlucky to be caught up in a harrowing caper like this, despite his magical bracelet; being banged up isn’t even the worst of his problems. He has some joy with his unique gift in this final episode, not least on a fruit machine in a pub in desperate circumstances. But he’s still involved in a terrifying struggle to save his family, holed up in Hampstead, as Golding’s plan comes to a head. A strange series, caught between gritty realism and superheroic daftness. David Stubbs      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Helen Mirren as Prospera in The Tempest. Photograph: Allstar/Sportsphoto LtdFilm choiceThe Salvation (Kristian Levring, 2014) 7.35am, 4.30pm, Sky Movies PremiereFormer Dogme director Levring’s revenge western stars a taciturn Mads Mikkelsen as a Danish immigrant farmer forced into a bloody reckoning on the wild frontier. In Jeffrey Dean Morgan’s Delarue there’s a villain well worth shooting and Eva Green is a mute, smouldering presence. It’s shot in South Africa, though with a fine eye for the western landscape.The Tempest (Julie Taymor, 2010) 12.15am, BBC2A bold adaptation of Shakespeare’s late-period play, with Helen Mirren as the magician Prospera, and what an imposing performance it is, holding the drama and viewers in her sensitive and humorous thrall. Cast away with her on a remote island are Felicity Jones as her daughter Miranda, Djimon Hounsou as Caliban and Ben Whishaw as Ariel. Paul HowlettToday’s best live sportT20 World Cup cricket: Pakistan v Australia With South Africa v West Indies to follow. 9am, Sky Sports 2Rugby league: Hull Kingston Rovers v Hull FC Double bill with St Helens v Wigan Warriors to follow. 12.30pm, Sky Sports 1Snooker: Players Championship The first two quarter-finals from Manchester. 12.45pm, ITV4League One football: Swindon Town v Wigan Athletic Followed by Peterborough United v Coventry City. 5.30pm, Sky Sports 1