In 2007, the producer Richard Jordan was at the Edinburgh festival and bumped into someone who had just come out of a show called Smile Off Your Face by a young, unknown Belgian company called Ontroerend Goed. The acquaintance raved about the piece, in which audience members were blindfolded, secured in a wheelchair and made to go through a series of intimate encounters, culminating in a cunning reveal. Intrigued, Jordan rushed to the venue where the company was doing its final performances, to find the production was not just sold out, but that tickets had been over-sold. There was no way he could be accommodated. Disappointed, he plonked himself down on an empty chair as mayhem raged around him, and to his surprise was approached by a young woman who told him: “You’re next.”Unwittingly, Jordan had sat in the seats reserved for ticket-holders and, realising it would be his only chance to see the show, he followed her. He loved it and immediately expressed an interest in producing the company’s work but wasn’t sure if it would lead anywhere. The next day he was surprised and delighted to get a phone call from the Traverse theatre, saying: “We hear you’re co-producing the Ontroerend Goed show here at the Traverse next summer.”That show turned out to be the teenage sensation Once and for All We’re Gonna Tell You Who We Are So Shut Up and Listen. Jordan has since forged a fruitful longterm producing relationship with Ontroerend Goed, taking the company’s shows all over the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Observer critic Stephanie Merritt performs White Rabbit, Red Rabbit at Assembly George Square, Edinburgh, in 2014. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the Guardian“And it all came about because I gatecrashed Smile Off Your Face and had a bit of luck when I sat down in a particular chair,” he says. “You can plan and plan but sometimes you also need a bit of luck as a producer.” This year Jordan will not only be co-producing Ontroerend Goed’s latest piece, World Without Us, but a slew of other interesting shows under the banner Big in Belgium, at Summerhall. He is also involved with the New York hit Hamlet in Bed, starring Annette O’Toole, at Pleasance Courtyard. Like all experienced producers in Edinburgh, he is spreading his bets.Often the least likely show turns out to be the biggest hit in Edinburgh and then beyond. When Wolfgang Hoffmann of Aurora Nova met an Iranian called Nassim Soleimanpour, who was banned from travelling outside Iran, he liked him so much that he decided to present his play White Rabbit, Red Rabbit in his programme of work for Edinburgh that year. A producer’s reputation takes 20 years to build and just five minutes to destroyRichard Jordan “I had no real expectations for it,” recalls Hoffmann. “I was following my heart not my head when I said I’d do it. It was only when I saw it in Edinburgh and saw the reaction to it that I realised what it was I’d got and what its true potential might be.” This summer, White Rabbit, Red Rabbit will be back in Edinburgh for the fifth consecutive year – part of Hoffmann’s programme of 14 shows, mostly European work, presented over six venues. It has enjoyed international success including a run in New York, in which stars were queuing up to take part in the piece, which is performed by a new actor every night who is reading the script for the first time. Hoffmann will be bringing Soleimanpour’s latest play, Blank, to the fringe this year. This time he has higher expectations of success, but he might be completely wrong. All producers would be as rich as Croesus if they knew which shows will be box-office bankers.Producing in Edinburgh is pretty much the same whether you are a professional producer or an individual or company bringing your own work. You take the show, you budget conservatively and market wisely in the hope that you won’t lose too much money. But the significant difference between a producer and a company bringing their own work is that the latter is likely to have only the one show, whereas producers know that, while the outlay and costs are far more substantial, bringing a range of work to Edinburgh can offset risk. One mega-hit with the potential to tour in the UK and beyond can negate the losses of those shows that disappear without trace.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Potted Potter – The Unauthorised Harry Experience. Photograph: Geraint Lewis “The golden rule,” says Jordan, “is not to have all your eggs in one basket: that way lies disaster.” It also includes spreading your shows across a range of venues, so the right show gets the right slot in the right space. Hoffmann adds another unbreakable rule: “Don’t put your own money into an Edinburgh show. At least don’t put money you can’t afford to lose.” Yet most individual companies heading for Edinburgh will have broken both those rules before they arrive.Unlike individual companies who are promoting only their own work, for many Edinburgh producers the fringe is not just a shop window, it is also a shopping expedition. Many will be on the lookout for other people’s productions they can tour, shows that they think that they can develop and artists and companies with whom they can grow and make relationships. Jordan’s experience with Smile Off Your Face is a classic example of that. Over the years, producer James Seabright – who first came to Edinburgh as a student producer in 2000 with the Cambridge Footlights, and who has since produced more than 200 shows on the fringe – has spotted the potential in a number of shows, mostly notably Potted Potter, which with its Potted offspring has toured the world.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mairi Hayes in You Once Said Yes at the Edinburgh festival in 2011. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the Guardian It’s for the success stories such as these, and many smaller-scale ones (which might see a company given a chance to take a show to the Adelaide festival, or a tour of small-scale arts centres), that the Fringe Arts Industry Office is keen to facilitate accredited producers during the fringe, so they can see work and forge connections. As its Emerging Producers Development Programme proves, the fringe knows that producers are just as important to its success as the companies who bring shows. Without them, there would be far fewer companies coming, because what many of them are looking for is a life for their show after the fringe, and they often don’t have the connections and contacts to do that. But a producer will. As Seabright observes, citing how he built Potted Potter into an international hit: “Producing a show is a process rather than an event.”Back in the 1980s and 90s it was common to see London producers descend on an Edinburgh hit show like a flock of vultures, and I know of companies whose shows went on to tour the world, but who themselves saw very little return, either financially or in terms of their development. Fortunately, changes in the theatre ecology and the way producers operate with much more openness means that’s far less frequent now. Jordan, who has been working as a producer in Edinburgh since 1998, reckons the days when producers would swoop down and exploit a show selfishly or simply for their own gain are long over.“We live in a much more connected theatre world. A producer’s reputation takes 20 years to build and just five minutes to destroy,” he says. “Nowadays it’s all about making long-term relationships, in which everyone has a stake. Lots of companies say what they need is a producer, but a lot of the work I do is dramaturgy. It’s a question of working out what you as a producer can bring and what they as a company want and need.” He makes the point that “not everything has to go on somewhere else. It’s as important to know how to close a show as it is to open one,” adding “as a producer things always work best when we all agree on how we can make a show be better and grow its potential”.Rosalyn Newbery agrees. She’s a producer who cut her teeth as an assistant on Look Left, Look Right’s terrific You Once Said Yes and then in 2014 produced Theatre Uncut at the Traverse. Now she is spreading her wings. Last year she brought Camilla Whitehill’s Where Do All the Little Birds Go? and The Eulogy of Toby Peach. This year she is bringing Whitehill’s next play, Mr Incredible, to Underbelly, where she is also producing Torch, written by the rising star Phoebe Eclair-Powell. But a year on, Newbery is also still building on the exposure Birds and Toby Peach got in Edinburgh 12 months ago, to apply for funding to get both shows out to a wider audience. Peach goes out on a tour in the autumn and spring with both ACE and Welcome Trust Arts award money behind it, and Birds will have a London run at the Old Red Lion this autumn.Neither would have been possible without the Edinburgh runs that received reviews and got venues interested in the first place.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kieran Hurley’s Heads Up is one of Show and Tell’s works at the festival this year. Photograph: Jassy Earl“In a way, the month in Edinburgh is only the start,” says Newbery. “For somebody like me who is building a career as a producer, Edinburgh is the best possible place to bring work. I’m not bringing the shows here to make money but because it can propel the work onwards. The value is in making the contacts and relationships and having the conversations. I’m using Edinburgh as a platform to boost the value of the product and get it seen, so that, as I’ve got more shows, producing them becomes less a hand-to-mouth existence and more sustainable.”For producers such as Newbery and Tom Searle of Show and Tell, who this year is producing Sh!t Theatre’s Letters to the House of Windsor, Kieran Hurley’s Heads Up and On the Run’s Tell Me Anything, Edinburgh is a crucial part of their business model.“It’s unrivalled in offering everything you want as a producer in one place for a month in August. You have everything you need: audiences, reviews and the entire industry in one city. You can generate reviews coverage and interest in a show in Edinburgh in a way that’s now impossible with a three- or four-week run in London,” says Searle.From Judy Garland to Evel Knievel: 15 sure-fire Edinburgh festival hits For an experienced producer such as Seabright, Edinburgh can also be a place to test a show before launching it in the West End. This year, one of the eight shows he’s producing is the Reduced Shakespeare Company’s new work, William Shakespeare’s Long Lost First Play (Abridged), at Pleasance Courtyard, which premiered in Washington in April and clearly has its eye on a West End run. But Seabright persuaded the company that opening in Edinburgh instead would allow them to “finesse the show for a UK audience”. He adds: “It’s much less of a risk to take a show like this to Edinburgh first and see the lie of the land, not least because producing international work in Edinburgh is easier – in London it would have to be part of the Equity exchange agreement between the West End and Broadway.”Edinburgh is often described as the world’s biggest arts trade show. It is, but one of the things that today’s fringe producing landscape reflects is changes in the wider theatre ecology. Over the last decade, the divide between the commercial and the subsidised has been dissolving. Almost everyone now operates within a mixed economy, with commercial producers teaming up with subsidised houses and not-for-profit organisations setting up commercial arms. Northern Stage has become a major producer of work by north Britain-based companies on the fringe, with a model that is about supporting and developing work and artists who might not be able to get to Edinburgh without it. It is a significant part of Northern Stage’s artist development programme and one with regional and national benefits. Similarly, Paines Plough is back again this year with a programme that begins in Edinburgh and then tours over the autumn and beyond on the back of interest generated by the fringe.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Producing on the fringe is a chance to be friends, not competitors, with people’ … Steve Marmion of Soho theatre. Photograph: Richard DavenportAnother major producing player is Soho theatre, which crosses the boundaries between theatre, comedy and cabaret. If there is one single thing – besides taking its bar back in-house so that the theatre benefits from the revenues – which has changed the fortunes of the venue under Steve Marmion, it is that Soho has become a big producer at the Edinburgh fringe: “It’s a way to say to the world: this is what we’ve got. It’s such a brilliant shop window.” This year, the theatre will produce 18 shows in nine different venues, the majority returning to the Soho programme, hopefully with the benefit of glowing reviews and a buzz around them.Over the last six years, audiences at Soho’s Dean Street premises have risen from 70,000 to 180,000 per year, for a programme mixing comedy and cabaret with theatre, and it looks as if Edinburgh in August has come to Soho in London for the other 11 months of the year. Soho theatre has a subsidy of around £600,000 a year, but that’s only 12% of turnover, which has risen from £2m to £5m under Marmion. Producing in Edinburgh has played a vital role in that expansion, not least because, as Marmion points out, the place is “pretty rammed”. This means that taking the Soho programme to Edinburgh is a way of getting it to bigger audiences and it brings in more opportunities for artists and for the theatre. And it is a very substantial rise in audience: producing in Edinburgh allows Soho to reach a further 70,000 people a year, on top of those who see the work in London.The perils of being theatre's next big thing Soho could, of course, run their own venue in Edinburgh in August, particularly given their experience of operating all year round in London on an Edinburgh model. But Marmion says that would defeat the object of producing in Edinburgh, which is about finding partners and collaborators.“Producing on the fringe is a chance to be friends, not competitors, with people,” Marmion says. Edinburgh isn’t just a chance to make money, it’s also about finding future talent to produce. “Seventy per cent of artists in the Soho programme come on to our radar via the Edinburgh fringe,” says Marmion. “What works in Edinburgh is likely to work in Dean Street too.”“There is no more honest audience,” says Jordan, “and no more demanding audience, and that’s what makes Edinburgh so exciting. It’s so full of possibilities as a producer. It’s why we keep coming back.”Tom Searle feels the same: “This will be my 10th fringe in a row, and it’s addictive. On the train ride back after each festival I’m thinking about what went wrong and what went right this year and how we can capitalise on it next year. And it’s on that journey home that I always start planning the following year.”