When Georgina Nelson sat down with the consultant she had hired to dispense sage advice on breaking into the card payments industry and taking on TripAdvisor at the same time, she was underwhelmed. The brief was to get her rating software working on card terminals so customers could review a business as they paid their bill. The advice she was given was summed up in a presentation with a single slide of a brick wall, with a warning not to bother.“He was kind of right because it is a very tough industry to get in to,” she says. “I don’t think he realised how determined I am though.”Three years later and Nelson’s startup, truRating, has raised £13.2m in angel and venture capital funding and has offices in the UK, US, Canada and Australia. Agreements have been signed with the world’s two largest card payments companies, Ingenico and Verifone, along with 60 separate agreements with software providers to ensure truRating can work on their systems. The company now employs more than 50 staff , is chaired by former Visa Europe chief executive Pete Ayliffe and the co-head of investment banking in Europe at Goldman Sachs, Anthony Gutman, is a board-level adviser. The brick wall has been breached and the focus has moved from breaking into the industry to building up the scale to truly rival a TripAdvisor or Yelp. The idea for the business was simple and struck Nelson while she was working in the legal team at Which? magazine.“I went to one of those great business lunch talks that really gets you thinking,” she says. “There was a fabulous speech about how the big ratings sites, such as TripAdvisor and Yelp, rely on a tiny proportion of members to write the vast majority of their reviews. At the same time, they have a big problem with people not knowing for sure a reviewer has really been to that hotel or restaurant. It could be a rival slamming them, or it could be the business saying great things about itself.”It got Nelson thinking that there had to be a better way of ensuring views were reliable. She concluded the only way to make sure a review came from a real customer would be to take a rating as that person made a card payment.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Georgina Nelson, CEO and founder of startup truRating.“The question changes with each customer as it revolves around what they thought of the food, service, cleanliness, ambience or whatever the company wants to measure,” says Nelson.“A company can vary the questions between each of their different locations and they may choose to concentrate on a particular question or two at one outlet, perhaps to see how new staff are performing or if a new product is being well received.”There are two aspects to the ratings. First, each company can set up a profile on the truRating website to show their scores – a part of the service that is still under development. Secondly, a business can use the ratings to keep informed on how it is performing. “The big benefit for businesses is that they’ve not normally got any idea if service levels have dropped or people aren’t enjoying the food in one of their outlets until it’s too late and people have been put off and bad reviews have been posted,” says Nelson. “So, we give them a live dashboard for how each of their locations is performing so they can find out much sooner if things are going well or if some attention is needed.”The smartphone app revolutionising foreign currency exchange At London pizza restaurant chain Franco Manca, the live feedback from the truRating system has meant that operations director Sandro Spahiu can monitor customer satisfaction levels and take action promptly when they dip.“Keeping an eye on each outlet’s ratings provides a really useful window to identify the small operational decisions that could be having a big impact,” he says. “Just last week truRating showed our product ratings dropped in the afternoons at one of our restaurants. We investigated and it turns out our chefs were turning down the oven temperatures during the quieter afternoon periods to save energy – but it was making our pizza bases less crispy. The oven is now kept at the optimum temperature all day and our product scores have improved.”According to Rob Kniaz a founding partner of venture capital firm Hoxton Ventures, this instant feedback could prove appealing. As for rivalling the big ratings services, he thinks that growth might be limited by trying to address a problem that is not a pain point for consumers in the first place.“I think most people realise the big review sites balance out in the end, between the nutters who hate everything and people rating their own business,” he says.“Businesses will often ask you to rate them on TripAdvisor so they get feedback for free, or they may give customers a code on their receipt with an offer of a voucher if they rate them on their own site,” he adds. “As for the card terminal approach, it’s a very hard business to make money in because margins are tiny and not every company wants an extra piece of software running on their point-of-sale system.”Currently there are too few reviews to offer a TripAdvisor-rivalling service, although Nelson claims truRating is on course to receive more than three billion ratings by the end of 2017. Until recently, she says, truRating was in the classic chicken-and-egg situation of needing companies to sign up for a service they could only use if their card payment provider offered it. Now these deals are in place, she says the next task is to turn conversations with large retail and cafe chains into sign-ups for the service. These potential new customers could cumulatively provide billions of ratings per year – meaning that truRating would have the numbers needed to take on their larger rivals, with real-time feedback from verified customers.Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.