MondayLittle Bulb’s all-singing Wail, which is about whales and humans, is at the Gulbenkian in Canterbury and on tour. If I Had a Girl, exploring real-life stories of honour violence, goes out on tour from Platform in Easterhouse tonight. Director Richard Twyman makes Othello a Muslim in a thrilling version at the Tobacco Factory in Bristol. Low Level Panic, revived at the Orange Tree, Richmond, is 30 years old but it captures the anxiety with which women live their daily lives with nervy humour.TuesdayAt the National Theatre, My Country; A Work in Progress is the result of a listening project asking for the views of people all across the UK about their lives and their futures as Britain prepares to leave the EU. Cheek by Jowl bring The Winter’s Tale to Oxford Playhouse. Third Angel consider the miracle of birth in Partus at ARC in Stockton. Headlong’s reinvention of Shaw’s Pygmalion moves to Warwick Arts Centre. The 1990s season begins at Styx in Tottenham Hale with Sarah Kane’s Blasted. Halley Feiffer’s off-Broadway hit, I’m Gonna Pray for You So Hard, opens at the Finborough, London.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mischievous … Cian Binchy’s Misfit AnalysisWednesdayWant to know what it’s like to be autistic? Let Cian Binchy enlighten you in the wonderfully mischievous The Misfit Analysis at Colchester Arts Centre. Good Dog, Arinzé Kene’s coming of age story about community and dispossession, plays at Live in Newcastle. Diary of a Teenage Girl, based on Phoebe Gloeckner’s graphic novel, opens at Southwark Playhouse. ThursdayIan McDiarmid stars in Faust x 2, his own adaptation of Goethe’s dramatic poem, at the Watermill, Newbury. The Take Me Somewhere festival continues in Glasgow with Drew Taylor’s Avoidable Climbing, a political black comedy, at the Citizens. Kieran Hurley’s apocalyptic Heads Up is at the Axis Arts Centre in Crewe. Rebecca Lenkiewicz’s Irish family drama, The Night Season, opens at the East Riding theatre in Beverley. Fire in the Machine at Battersea Arts Centre is a devised show by young people exploring the pressure to be productive.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Share an apocalyptic night with Kieran Hurley in Heads Up. Photograph: Niall WalkerFriday and the weekendTold in Scots dialect, The Red Chair is about a man who eats so much he turns into a piece of furniture; it goes out on tour from the Tron in Glasgow. Romeo and Juliet gets a northern twist in Amy Leach’s revival at West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds. Katy Baird’s slyly clever Workshy stops off at Derby Theatre Studio. Paul Auster’s short novel City of Glass takes to the stage at Home, Manchester, in an adaptation by Duncan Macmillan. Seventeen, a play about teenagers performed by a cast of older actors, previews at the Lyric Hammersmith; while Improbable’s Lost Without Words at the National Theatre puts actors in their 70s and 80s on stage without a script. 