Three episodes in and I’m increasingly invested in this show. Yes there’s at least one moment every week that makes me snort (this week Hardy’s grunted delivery of “tea” in response to what he wants) but the double-crosses are always entertaining and the world is enjoyably off-kilter. Part of the joy of this series is that it’s not a historically accurate period piece so much as a gothic romp in a highly stylised world in which anything can, and frequently does, happen. It’s a place where parents go mad and siblings conduct heated love affairs, where no one is without an ulterior motive and everyone – from the head of the East India Company to the mudlarks on the grimy shore – appears on the verge of hysteria. My one concern is that if it’s pitched this high in week three, how extreme will things be by the finale?“I am accruing a band of loyal servants, none of whom have value to me beyond the facilitation of this greater good.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Everyone is powerless to resist James Delaney. Photograph: Robert Viglasky/Scott Free ProdsOh James – don’t let Brace and Atticus hear that, they’ll be devastated. Delaney Jr began the episode recovering from last week’s assassination attempt – and no doubt thanking the fact that it was the Americans who saved him, meaning he could tell them his cunning masterplan. And what a plan it is. Essentially young Mr Delaney wishes American aid to secure a monopoly on the tea industry, or as he put it “all the tea in China” (yes, this show is laughing up its mud-spattered sleeve at us all). Will they help him? The jury’s still out. The Americans weren’t James’ only concern, of course. Having temporarily neutralised the East India Company by making a will leaving Nootka to the US, he spent the rest of the episode juggling his multiplying problems with women: dealing with his father’s ex-wife, performing rituals to keep his mother’s ghost at bay and continuing his unsuccessful courtship of his sister, which is clearly driving both of them, and indeed Zilpha’s husband, half-mad. “It is blackmail but between friends so where’s the harm?”He also paid a visit to a Molly House where East India Company translator Godfrey was revealed to be both an old friend and gay. Poor Godfrey was clearly desperate to keep this secret – up until 1861, homosexuality was punishable by death. Unfortunately, like pretty much everyone else, he was powerless to resist James, to whom he confessed a longstanding crush. James promised no harm would come to his former friend if he entered the spying game – though I’m unconvinced. “Don’t spoil the bloody game Stuart. I just know everything. Always assume I know.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Stuart Strange has met his match in Solomon Coop. Photograph: Robert Viglasky/Scott Free ProdsOver in the East India Company games of a very different kind were happening, as Strange met his match in the oleaginous Solomon Coop, whose “always assume I know” catchphrase drove him straight to the top of my list of people I am amused by on this show. Coop’s main concern is to try and curb the EIC’s influence in India – at this stage they are still ruling much of the subcontinent – while ensuring that the crown can capitalise on that influence. He hopes to achieve this by prodding Strange in his soft spot – Nootka Sound, or as Strange fabulously has it “the James Delaney Kink” – and getting him to concede EIC ground in India in exchange for help preventing a Delaney tea monopoly in China. Can it work? I’d say about as well as any partnership where neither side trusts the other an inch. Additional notes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Is Lorna Bow James’s greatest weakness? Photograph: Robert Viglasky/Scott Free Prods• James might claim that Lorna is a weakness but I’d say Zilpha is his most obvious fault line. He’s incapable of thinking straight when she’s near. • That said, I loved their letters and subsequent meeting. Of course these taboo-busting kids headed to church to briefly rekindle their affair.• The scene between James and Zilpha’s husband Thorne was one of the episode’s highlights. A taut and unpleasant little confrontation, which thrummed with violence.• As did Thorne’s later scene with Zilpha, which left us no doubt that this is a very nasty marriage indeed.• The look of disgust and despair on Brace’s face when James started boarding up the house again would have made a Presbyterian minister proud. • How trustworthy is Brace? He spent a lot of time warning James against Atticus but then he didn’t give the letter from James direct to Coop, as instructed, but to a palace flunky. • The mysterious American agent Carlsbad is a woman. Who wants to bet that she’s also Lorna Bow? She certainly has the acting skills, pragmatism and wit to be a spy. And she was swift to fight off the Duke of Richmond, and not as bothered as she should be by the fact she’s facing arrest. • Thomas Jefferson was all but retired at this point, but he did still keep contacts within the US government and had close ties with President James Madison so using him as mediator is not an unreasonable suggestion. • I’m increasingly fond of Winter with her ghoulish interest in all of James’ nefarious deeds. I wouldn’t turn your back on her James, she might well stab you in it.• Also shooting to the top of my list of characters I like: the irascible Thoyt whose “tell him I’m dead” response was extremely relatable.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Atticus’s brother-in-law, played by Fijian rugby coach Danny Ligairi. Photograph: Scott Free Prods/Robert Viglasky• Atticus’s brother-in-law was played by Danny Ligairi, a Fijian rugby coach who got the role after meeting Tom Hardy while coaching Under 14s in Richmond park.• Still no sign of the dog from episode one – at this rate I’m going to worry that James has eaten him. Most magnificently brooding Tom Hardy moment Another week, another purification ritual. This time James confronted the ghosts of his past, specifically that of his mother who appears to have committed suicide and who was confined for a time to Bedlam. Most fantastically baroque threat of the week“My dearest Zilpha, I apologise for the fact that I am not related to you but you could allow your cunt to swallow the work of an honest man who will promise to buy you the finest china if you would just stop fucking bleeding.” I do hope Thorne Geary isn’t planning on opening a charm school any time soon.What did you think? Are you on board or wavering as much as Stuart Strange’s minions? Is Lorna actually Carlsbad? And who would you trust more: Atticus or Brace? As ever, all speculation and no spoilers welcome below…