After binge-consuming bad news for two weeks I have given up, and now find myself bingeing instead on something designed to soothe the nerves but that, in its country of origin at least, has come to stand for something much gloomier: episode after episode of Midsomer Murders.Happy Valley has become Britain’s version of The Wire | Emma Brockes It is hard to explain to American friends, some of whom have watched and admired the show, quite the nature of the disregard in which it is held. It is as slickly made as Inspector Morse, with the same am-dram overtones. John Nettles, who appeared in the first 80 – 80! – episodes, is the standard curmudgeonly turn-of-the-millennium British TV detective. The premise is ludicrous – with a body count that, over the years, exceeds the population of the village – but no more so than Miss Marple.And yet, uniquely among these titles, not only has Midsomer Murders become shorthand for a version of England considered narrow to the point of offensive, but also the idea of watching it is thought akin to slow death, like Songs of Praise but a thousand times worse.Not now, however. If the aim of escapism is to travel as far from one’s present condition as possible, then Midsomer Murders is the most outlandish journey I can make in one evening, back to a time of affable sexism and coded homophobia. A teacher sleeps with a pupil and the storyline lays the blame squarely on the latter. I had always imagined the broad appeal of the show to be that it took place in a “gentler time”, before everyone spoke in italics, but that’s not it at all. Watching Midsomer Murders is like finding an old copy of News of the World lying around in a Home Counties pub: all tarts and vicars and incest. It’s amazing.There are traditional comforts, too. Everyone in the show is an antiques dealer or a retired civil servant from Kent. They’re all called Phyllis or Iris or Dr Lessiter or Jennings, names that conjure what we might now call hideous whiteness, but that also speak to a genre of eccentrics and grotesques going back to Punch and Judy.And, as with any British crime show of more than 20 years’ vintage, there are a million cameos from people who went on to be famous (Emily Mortimer, Orlando Bloom, Hugh Bonneville), as well as grand old dames (Anna Massey, Honor Blackman) hamming it up one last time.I can’t discount the effect of the scenery, a sign of my incipient middle age or else the beginning of a breakdown, but either way, all those shots of hedgerows had me practically weeping. Mainly, however, it’s the show’s brazen self-confidence that is hard to resist. It was observed recently that Sherlock Holmes, in his latest iteration, had been forced into Mission: Impossible-type antics and even Miss Marple is rebranded simply as Marple, as if she’s going to take on Iron Man in a battle for St Mary Mead.Not so Barnaby and Troy, unfailingly smug, cosy, lightly ironic in the face of all deviance. One season down, 18 to go!Lay down your ‘weaponised’       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Melissa McCarthy’s ‘weaponised hostility’ as Sean Spicer. Photograph: NBC/Getty ImagesLanguage sometimes fails us in the era of President Trump, and if normalisation is the watch-word, I’m also wary of its inverse, a kind of comic hyperbole that feels wrong when hyperbole and reality overlap. On this basis, I vote for a moratorium on two jokey formulations so worn out they have no further meaning, the suffix “industrial complex” (as in “bullshit industrial complex”) and the prefix “weaponised”. This week I saw a reference to Melissa McCarthy’s impression of Sean Spicer as having a “weaponised hostility”. Really, these days exaggeration is superfluous to need.He’s to diet for! It’s Valentine’s Day next week and in bookshops I’ve spotted themed Valentine’s sections featuring piles of weight-loss titles directed at women. That’s right, ladies: make yourself lovable by losing some weight. Otherwise, buy some chips and a novel, and settle for a lot of cold nights in with Netflix.