In a year heavy on sequels and remakes, which one stands as the UK’s top grosser of 2016?   Captain America: Civil War    Bridget Jones’s Baby    Finding Dory    The Jungle Book A social media war over which film led to Twitter’s permanent suspension of alt-right poster boy Milo Yiannopoulos for racist trolling?   Suicide Squad    Central Intelligence    Moana    Ghostbusters Dubbed “Sad Affleck” on the internet, a reaction shot from a Ben Affleck interview went viral in 2016. What had the interviewer been asking about at the time?   The reviews of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice    Reviews of The Accountant    His future as Batman in the DC Comics “extended universe”    His brother Casey’s Oscar buzz for Manchester By the Sea Which film won the most awards at this year’s Oscar ceremony?   Spotlight    The Revenant    Mad Max: Fury Road    The Danish Girl Over accusations of racially biased voting and transphobia, this year’s Academy Awards ceremony was vocally boycotted by a number of industry figures. Which of these names did not join the boycott?   Spike Lee    Will Smith    Anohni    Whoopi Goldberg Caught during the prizegiving ceremony at May’s Cannes film festival, a seemingly withering reaction shot of juror Mads Mikkelsen has become a gleeful online meme. Whose tearful acceptance speech was he watching?   Ken Loach    Xavier Dolan    Andrea Arnold    Marion Cotillard What technical novelty fuelled a surfeit of rave reviews for German director Sebastian Schipper’s cross-Berlin heist thriller Victoria?   It was shot entirely on drone-mounted cameras    It comprised only a soundtrack over a black screen    It was shot in a single take more than two hours long    It featured only repurposed footage from other films After a long commercial lull for foreign-language fare, what became the UK’s most lucrative non-Bollywood subtitled film since 2012’s Untouchable?   Julieta    Son of Saul    The Mermaid    Mustang Which unlikely thespian “voiced” an aggressively non-verbal character in The Angry Birds Movie?   Clint Eastwood    Meryl Streep    Derek Jacobi    Sean Penn Which of these fashion designers doesn’t have a cameo in Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie?   Tom Ford    Stella McCartney    Ozwald Boateng    Jean-Paul Gaultier Months after his death in January, in which film did Alan Rickman make his final big-screen appearance — in a voice-only role?   Zootroplis    The Jungle Book    Alice Through the Looking Glass    The Secret Life of Pets Who had a brother called Tomothy?   Toby in Not Going Out    JP in Fresh Meat    Kelly in Mum    Arsehole Guy in Fleabag Anna Maxwell Martin again proved her comedy credentials in which new angst-ridden delight from writers Sharon Horgan and Graham Linehan?   Woman on the Edge    Motherland    Mother Ted    God of Small Things Michael Gambon and John Lithgow both portrayed which politician in 2016?   LBJ    Churchill    Stalin    De Gaulle "Do you mind if I move my seat? … Your breath’s very bad.” A live clip of which charmer saying this to Larry King turned up in a C4 programme?   Mark Zuckerberg    Donald Trump    Meg Ryan    Kanye West Which country emerged head-and-shoulders best from the garlanded Exodus: Our Journey to Europe, in terms of its treatment of migrants?   Austria    Turkey    Serbia    Sweden  Nina Mash sent the Twittersphere into nauseous meltdown with what dish on Masterchef: The Professionals?   Anchovy spaghetti. The whole of it pureed, chilled in ramekins and offered with “nibbles” that turned out to be flash-fried Pringles    Pan-fried salmon with strawberry risotto    Chicken tartare    Slow-braised chicken wattles with chilli and lemon-griddled asparagus Channel 4 had a good year but aired a couple of horrors featuring bare bodies. What were the instantly forgettable titles of the two shows?   Raw’r! and Birthday Suites    Naked Attraction and Life Stripped Bare    Emperor’s Clothes and Does My Bum Look Clean in This?    Unwrapped, and The Naked and The Damned The Real Marigold Hotel returns early next year and will include which new group of charmful oldsters?   Lionel Blair, Dennis Taylor, Bill Oddie and Amanda Barrie    Rodney Bewes, Iggy Pop, Jane Asher and Clive Lloyd    Rodney Bewes, Iggy Pop, Jane Asher and Clive Lloyd    John Sergeant, Celia Imrie, Paul Gambaccini and Barry Cryer You got…Challenge your friendsSubmit answers