Sometimes it feels like we have forgotten the simple joy of a potato. There are now so many alternatives – rice, pasta, quinoa, freekeh, the list is long – that I wonder if we cold-climate dwellers are falling a little out of touch with potatoes, not just a trusted culinary stalwart in the British kitchen, but an unsung hero. Alternatives there may be, but, to me, potatoes can never really be replaced.Potatoes are a faithful friend in my kitchen. They have unparalleled abilities, collaborating happily with other flavours and adapting easily to different forms and cultures. Many of these are deeply familiar, loaded with personal associations: for one, a hot tray of rustling, salted, roast potatoes alongside pints of beer; for another, crisply browned cakes of grated potato in latkes or rösti, or yielding mouthfuls of potato gnocchi coated in rich Italian sauces, or even a dry potato curry, dusted with aromatic spices. Not forgetting mash, chips, baked spuds, croquettes, dauphinoise, and so on. The possibilities seem to be endless.The other day I travelled from the west coast of Canada, where it was still remorselessly winter, to arrive back in London, where spring has definitely arrived. At times like this, my thoughts turn to the warming earth and planting seeds – not least seed potatoes. Most years I grow a few rows in my garden in Wales. I learned some years ago that the variety I like best is charlotte: its versatile waxy flesh becomes naturally buttery when cooked.Potatoes are useful as a ground-clearing advance brigade. Traditionally, growers will plant the tubers deep in the soil, keeping them in the dark to prevent them going green with toxic solanine. The digging is thought to improve the soil structure prior to growing other, more tender plants. Advocates of the “no-dig” method, however, eschew all the digging, planting out the tubers on the surface, and adding a mulch around them as they develop. This also smothers weeds, adds compost, and saves aching backs.How to grow your own veg – without a garden Already in England’s southwest and the Channel Islands, the soil is bearing spring’s first new potatoes – Jersey royals and Cornish – which are now arriving on shop shelves. As soon as I can, I’ll head out to buy a handful, still in their soil, delicate skins ready to rub off with the swipe of a thumb, and will serve them, tender and simply buttered – for lunch, perhaps, with a fillet of hot smoked fish alongside. March and April are also the months that lovage first arrives in my garden, its leaves still tender before it dwarfs everything else later in the year. The pleasure that is a bowlful of tiny new potatoes with finely shredded lovage, softened wet garlic, cider vinegar and olive oil is matchless.But potatoes are not just for spring. The grower’s ingenuity has given us enough varieties to span the whole year with waxy, floury, and salad types – in yellow, white and even deep purple colours. As someone keen to eat seasonally, this makes the potato a constant kitchen companion and I love to exploit its chameleon qualities. Always as a mash with cream and butter; or roughly squashed with olive oil, salt and black pepper; or as a herby colcannon with a good handful of parsley and spring onions, finely chopped and sweated; or combined with parsnip, celeriac or turnip. I’ll also make bubble and squeak, leaving the potatoes chunky with a good squirt of hot sriracha sauce on top.For me, potato love came early and is probably mixed with brother-love. The brother in question, Sam, used to grow potatoes on the railway embankment next to our garden in rural Leicestershire. Aged 5 or 6, dutifully and admiringly, and hidden from our mother’s sight, I ate the products of his efforts, greenish and half-baked from a smouldering fire. As a meal it was poor, but the thrill of growing something, of making a meal on our own, was tangible.Adjectives used to describe the potato often include “humble” or “lowly”, but with this repertoire of permutations, I can’t help but feel the potato is undersold, weighed down by history as a cheap staple meant only to mop up gravy and fill the belly. Let’s make a resolution to devote ourselves with renewed effort to its modest splendour.Pressed parsley potatoesYou need waxy potatoes for this, which keep the whole thing together, and should plan ahead and make this the day before to meld the flavours and firm the loaf.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This recipe has been inspired by a pressed potato and caper recipe inNose to Tail Eating by Fergus Henderson. Photograph: Jonathan LovekinServes 4 as a side dish500g large charlotte potatoes, peeled½ medium red onion, peeled and finely sliced3 garlic cloves, peeled and very finely sliced2 tbsp white wine vinegar 30g salted butter40g fresh flat-leaf parsley, stalks removedSalt and black pepper1 Boil the potatoes until properly soft, drain them, put them back into the still-warm pan to dry off, then slice them lengthways as finely as possible (around 2mm thick).2 Steam the onion and garlic over boiling water (or over the boiling potatoes, if you can) for around 5–10 minutes, or until soft and tender. Put them into a small bowl, add the vinegar and leave them to steep for 10 minutes or so.3 While the potatoes are cooking, melt the butter and line a medium loaf tin with clingfilm, ensuring you have some extra at the sides to fold over the top. Chop the parsley very finely, sprinkling it with some crunchy sea salt and black pepper as you chop to help release moisture. Remove the onion and garlic from their bath, then squeeze out all the surplus vinegar.4 To assemble the pressed potatoes, first cover the base of the loaf tin with a layer of potatoes, add a further grinding of sea salt and pepper, then add a dribble of melted butter, then a layer of chopped parsley and a strewing of onion mix. Repeat until you have used up all the ingredients, finishing with a layer of potato. It should make 3–4 full layers.5 Fold over the clingfilm to cover and put a second loaf tin inside to press down on the mixture. Put the heaviest weight you can find inside the top tin. Leave in the fridge overnight to firm up and combine flavours.6 When you are ready to eat, turn it out on to a board, unwrap, season and slice a section per person.Lemon and potatoes (main picture)The tang of lemon and its gooey caramelised rinds combine beautifully with the soft potato here.Serves 4400–500g new potatoes, scrubbed, but not peeled1 unwaxed lemon50g butterSalt and black pepper1 Scrub the potatoes and slice them very finely, as you would for a dauphinoise – around 2-3mm thick.2 Halve the lemon lengthways and remove the knobbly top and bottom. Slice the lemon into 2–3mm half-moon slices.3 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6. Take a shallow ovenproof dish (mine was a 32cm-long oval) and grease the base and sides with a little butter. Assemble the dish by arranging a row of potato slices across the end of the dish, propped up at a steep angle (around 45 degrees). Against this row, prop a couple of slices of lemon, rind side up. Tuck in a couple of slivers of butter and a light seasoning of salt and pepper. Continue to assemble in this way, row by row, until the dish is full. It will have a pretty scalloped look to it.4 Dot a few more tiny knobs of butter over the top and add more seasoning if you like. Cover with foil, seal well around the edges, and pop into the hot oven for around 30 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender to the tip of a knife. Remove the foil and continue to cook for 30–40 more minutes, or until the potatoes and lemons are browned and caramelised. Baste with the pooled butter during the cooking time to help browning.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nothing beats freshly grown herbs from your own garden. Photograph: Nick SeatonTwo ways with new potatoesBoil 500g of scrubbed new potatoes in salted water until they are tender – which takes around 20 minutes. Drain, let them steam-dry for a couple of minutes, then cut into bite-size chunks. Then follow one of the following recipes. Serves 4.With fennel flowers and orangeSucculent new potatoes with creamy fennel and zest of orange.1 Gently mix the potatoes with 1 tbsp white wine vinegar and the grated zest and juice of half an orange.2 Add 2 trimmed and finely sliced spring onions to the mix along with a generous dollop of creme fraiche. Season with salt and pepper, to taste.3 Finally, snip in little flowers from 5 sprays of fennel, leaving the tiniest stem on each. Gently mix and serve warm.With wet garlic and lovageEarthy lovage combines beautifully with new-season wet garlic and potatoes. If the garlic is very new, it only needs the outer skin peeled off to slice through the entire bulb – embryonic cloves and all. If the inner skins of each clove have formed any papery quality, peel them in the usual way and slice finely.1 Heat 3 tbsp olive oil in a pan over a low to medium heat and soften one finely sliced bulb of wet garlic – do not allow it to take colour.2 Add the potatoes and toss to coat with the garlicky oil. Add 3 tbsp cider vinegar and let it bubble up around the potatoes. Toss a couple more times, then tip everything into a bowl along with all the pan juices. Taste, then season with salt and pepper if you think it needs it.3 Mix through a few leaves of finely shredded lovage, and serve warm.Curate’s puddingThis comes from an age when re-use of leftovers was sacrosanct. We are familiar with puddings that use up leftover bread; here is one created to put mashed potato to work. I found this while browsing a very battered copy of Mrs Beeton – although, as most of her recipes were purloined from elsewhere, it no doubt had an earlier origin.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I have no idea why it is called curate’s pudding. I imagine a single, black-garbed fellow abstemiously spooning it, attended by a sober, aproned cook.’ Photograph: Jonathan LovekinServes 660g butter, at room temperature, plus a little extra for greasing120g granulated sugar6 tbsp cold mashed potato 2 eggs, beatenZest and juice of 1 lemonA pinch of salt2 tbsp milk1 Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6 and grease a 20cm pie dish with a little of the butter.2 Cream the butter and sugar with an electric whisk in a bowl until you have a thick and grainy mixture. Stir in the mashed potato, then add the beaten eggs bit by bit until all is incorporated.3 Finally, add the lemon zest and juice, the pinch of salt and the milk.4 Pour the mixture into the pie dish and cook in the oven for 30‑35 minutes, or until golden around the edges, gently firm and sizzling.5 Eat just warm, with a little thin cream and maybe some fruit on the side.Jessica Seaton is the author of Gather Cook Feast (Penguin) and the cofounder of the lifestyle brand Toast. @llanjessica