The Church of England is sponsoring a play at the Edinburgh festival fringe about the experiences of an Eritrean refugee in the Calais camp known as “the Jungle”.Still Here charts the nine-day journey of a man who fled Eritrea after being persecuted for his Christian faith, and his encounter in the camp with the play’s author, Rachel Partington, artistic director of Theatre For Justice.Partington visited the camp a few days before Christmas with a group from her church to deliver donations and offer moral support. The man was among several refugees she met.“I felt a strong sense of connection with him,” she said. He told her of the persecution faced by Christians in Eritrea, that his mother and sister had been imprisoned for their faith and that churches were shut down.During his journey from Eritrea to Calais, across deserts and over the Mediterranean, God never left his side, he told Partington. And he asked her to tell the people of her country about his country. “Is very important,” he said in the recording she made.Partington had no idea what happened to the man after their meeting. “We were planning to go back, but the camp and the [makeshift] church were demolished. I don’t know where he is now. But I had that time talking to him and others, and now I feel a responsibility to pass on what they said.”The play was developed with Bristol Old Vic Theatre School, where Partington is a student, and will be staged inside a specially constructed tent-like shelter in the grounds of St Mary’s Cathedral in Edinburgh.It is the first time the C of E has sponsored a performance at the fringe. “It can be difficult to imagine the plight of those who find themselves persecuted for their faith and fleeing from their homes,” said its director of communications, Arun Arora. “As Christians we have a responsibility to speak up for the poor and the marginalised.”Partington said: “The persecuted church is not something we hear a lot about, it needs to be highlighted. My hope is that people will watch the play, and be moved by the human story – and maybe some will have the power to help change the situation.“These people are desperate, and it’s important that we step up to do all we can to help.”