Aesthetics are subjective. To me, as I said in a recent Guardian article, it’s blindingly obvious that Pam Grier’s layered performance in 1997’s Jackie Brown is infinitely superior to Helen Hunt’s by-the-numbers spunky, angelic waitress in As Good As it Gets. But maybe you think (somehow) Hunt was better. Maybe you think she really should have won the Oscar that year, and that, therefore, her victory was a sign of virtue and merit rewarded, rather than an example of the Oscars’ usual preference for white actors in stories about white people. The existence of racism, or the ability to see racism, is built on the tottering foundation of personal taste. If you love Driving Miss Daisy, who am I to tell you that it maybe has something to do with racism that it won the Oscars in 1989 over Do the Right Thing?This is precisely the concern of Freddie deBoer, who on his own blog warns that basing the argument for diversity on aesthetic evaluations may undermine the push for greater black representation at the Oscars and elsewhere. “When you hinge the argument for equality of opportunity in creative fields on the specific complaint that a particular movie or performance was unjustly denied, you’re inevitably weakening that case because not everyone does or should agree on what movies are good,” DeBoer warns. Instead, he argues, “the case for greater equality in Hollywood is clear, and doesn’t depend on the aesthetic merits of specific movies. We should pursue equality of access in all industries, including the creative industries,” he says, “because we recognize that the opportunity to try your hand in a given field is a basic and cherished kind of freedom.”But is it true that aesthetics has nothing to do with prejudice? Movies have content, and part of liking or disliking a film (or any art) has to do with a reading of, and reaction to, that content. You may love Birth of a Nation or Gone With the Wind for various reasons – maybe you admire the technical innovations in the first, or the sweeping love story in the second. But love them or hate them, those are really racist films, which deliberately, ideologically, remorselessly glorify (in turn) the Klan and slavery. That’s not just a random, subjective opinion. It’s a problem which you have to deal with when discussing those films and their place in the culture. And the fact that Gone With the Wind won every Oscar that wasn’t nailed down way back in 1940 tells you something about the racism of the time – and perhaps something about the racism of the Academy, even now.What DeBoer misses, I think, is that art is not just subjective. If it were, if aesthetics were completely individual and personal, art couldn’t exist; if artist and audience member are both hopelessly locked in their own subjectivities, how could they talk to each other? Art is by its nature communication; it’s a conversation which occurs not in a subjective box, but between people. And that means reactions to art are interpersonal, social and cultural. You can react to Birth of a Nation in lots of ways, but part of that reaction is going to depend on how you see (or for that matter, don’t see) racism. Since art exists in culture, evaluation of art does too. People’s knee-jerk, or considered, views of art, therefore, are inevitably linked to broad cultural prejudices. Elvis was a wonderful performer and singer, but the reason that he’s the King, and Sam Cooke is not, is not just because of a random distribution of subjective likes and dislikes. Romance novels, all the way back to Jane Austen, have been dismissed as dangerously trivial corrupters of taste. That’s not because of subjective taste – after all, romance novels sell better than any other book, so if we were just going by aggregates of individual taste, they should be widely respected. No, romance novels are despised because they’re by women, for women, and because they deal with stereotypically feminine concerns like romance and relationships. Romance novels are seen as crap, in other words, precisely because, contra DeBoer, they take intersubjectivity seriously, and think that that subjective preference known as love requires, and deserves, serious analysis and study.For that matter, even DeBoer himself stumbles, despite himself, into aesthetics. In making his case that the film industry needs to be open to people of every background, he declares: “Diversity in perspective is an essential element of artistic bounty, and truly diverse perspectives can’t be achieved without diversity in our creative class.”I agree with that wholeheartedly. But agree or disagree, there’s no way around the fact that the statement is a subjective aesthetic opinion. I value diverse perspectives in art, but someone else might not. Someone could well say: “You know, I don’t like Jackie Brown because I don’t care about black women, and don’t want to hear about their stories.” That’s a subjective aesthetic opinion. How can you criticize it?As that example demonstrates, taken to its logical conclusion, bracketing aesthetics as subjective ends with being unable to criticize racism at all. That’s because racism is, at bottom, an aesthetic opinion: “I don’t like those people who share a particular visible, formal quality.” Race is an abstract category which is given symbolic meaning. It’s no more “real” than a romance novel or than Birth of a Nation. But symbols, and subjective response to symbols, move people. What you like, what you dislike, what you hate, can kill.That’s not to say that anyone who dislikes Jackie Brown, or who likes Birth of a Nation, is a racist. The relationship between subjective reactions, art, culture, and prejudice is always complicated. Connecting individuals to systems is hard, which is one reason change is difficult. If it were just a matter of saying, “Black people should be treated equally by the Oscars,” there would be no problem, because the Academy doesn’t formally, officially, rank black people lower. But through the magic of individual preferences and choices, somehow you can have two years in a row with no black person nominated. Prejudice is solidified, and enforced, through institutions. But it starts out as an aesthetic preference – a dream about who is good and who is bad, who matters and who doesn’t. Those dreams can seem too insubstantial and elusive to tangle with, a distraction from the serious task of changing the world. But new worlds need new imaginings. If you’re not willing to challenge the old stories we tell, you can never write a different one. 