‘There’s not a lot of sex in it.” Brooke Magnanti sounds if not apologetic then cautionary when asked what marks out her first work of fiction to be published under her given name rather than her – for now, at least – better-known pseudonym Belle de Jour.And readers would be forgiven for making assumptions about her novel’s subject matter: her award-winning blog, Diary of a London Call Girl, which began in 2003, along with the two bestselling memoirs and fictional offshoots that followed, provided frank and fearless storytelling about sex and sexuality. Her first non-fiction work after she outed herself in 2009, after years of relentless media pursuit, was a meticulously researched treatise on myth-making around sex and sexuality.And while there is indeed a paucity of sex in her new crime novel The Turning Tide, Magnanti remains an accomplished and likable narrator with a penchant for archly drawn caper that makes sense when she says her literary hero is Joe Orton.For genre aficionados, she includes gleefully grisly mortuary scenes, filled with a practised black humour and intimate knowledge of what a corpse looks like (“The skin had started slipping away from the underlying tissues like a badly fitting suit”) that befits Magnanti’s less publicised career as a forensic scientist.Belle de Jour revealed at last: scientist who penned Diary of a London Call Girl outs herself to foil Daily Mail Magnanti and her heroine Erykah share one key experience: that of suddenly and dramatically having one’s past exposed by the media. (Belle de Jour revealed her identity in an interview with the Sunday Times, after a tabloid newspaper threatened to out her. Only her agent and her accountant previously knew her true identity and, at the time of being interviewed by Times columnist India Knight, she had yet to tell her own mother.)Sitting in a hotel bar in Glasgow, she explains: “Erykah is quite naive about what it means for everybody suddenly to become interested in you: she makes a lot of imperfect decisions but you have to keep rolling forward. And that aspect [of the plot] definitely draws on my own experiences. There are certainly things that I would love to go back and change with perfect hindsight but you can’t. You have to keep going forward with the decisions you’ve made.”It’s as a consequence of this media glare that Erykah unwittingly becomes embroiled with a brutal organised crime syndicate and some high-stakes political schemers.“Part of the plot was trying to think what life would be like for someone who had had similar experiences to mine but had made different decisions; somebody who didn’t have quite such a thick skin initially and didn’t think she ever could have.” It’s an interesting comment: just as Magnanti is physically small but evidently athletic, so she has a toughness that sits just beneath her guarded charm.“Erykah’s evolution really is discovering that she doesn’t need her husband to rescue her, she doesn’t need all of these things that she thought were going to be her life. The places she thought she was going to escape to, the people she thought she was going to escape with – one by one she loses the things she was counting on.”Erykah is the kind of character who slowly wins the reader over: she’s not immediately agreeable, nor does she have the bulldozing capability of some of crime’s more notable female leads.Magnanti laughs: “We’ve had Jane Tennison, we’ve had VI Warshawski and they’re very appealing, but after a while they really do wear on my patience.” She makes her voice breathy with faux amazement: “Oh is it another woman who’s not like all the other women? The strong female character who is this magical unicorn character: she’s not like the men so she can see things men can’t see, but she’s not like the other women either.”It’s noticeable that Magnanti brings contemporary politics and technology to bear on her plotting, two subjects that storytellers often dodge for fear of tying their books to a present that will date very quickly. As far as the tech aspect is concerned: “It’s in your pocket in everyday life. You don’t wander around knocking on doors to find out where somebody is nowadays, you’d just Google them.”As for the politics, it is centred on the travails of a Scottish Labour MP in a fractious post-independence referendum landscape very much like our own.Magnanti, who moved to the west coast of Scotland with her husband six years ago, says: “I think possibly people are a little afraid to comment on [the referendum] because we’re still trying to figure out exactly what has happened.”“I was disappointed that it wasn’t yes, but from a writer’s point of view it made the book easier. It’s something that can’t be avoided but I also think, like technology, it’s going to be something that writers will try to get around if they can.” She adds that it’s difficult to write anything fictional about politics without reality immediately offering up a worse parody. The day before we met, Nigel Farage and George Galloway, inspirations for a particularly bumptious aspirant politician in the book, launched their Grassroots Out campaign for the next referendum on the calendar.Magnanti decided to become a full-time writer just over five years ago, since her contract as a research scientist at Bristol University came to an end in 2010.“Of all the things that were offered in 2009 – and a lot were, very quickly – my choice was to keep writing. I wanted to keep writing books about stuff I know about and that’s been pretty much it.” I worked within science 10 times longer than I worked as an escortBrooke Magnanti She is pragmatic about the fact that publicity for the crime novel will – as this piece does – inevitably discuss her former incarnation. “Well, of course,” she says lightly, “that’s the only way anyone knows who I am so I can’t be ungrateful.” She is also very clear that the public only know a “slim sliver” of her life: people are always surprised to discover she is American, for example. (Magnanti grew up in Florida and moved to the UK to study for her master’s degree.)“Personally I don’t feel anxiety about it because I know myself and I worked within science 10 times longer than I worked as an escort, so for me there isn’t really a conflict.”She explains: “When I started writing [the book], it was actually written from a different character’s point of view, a young woman working in a radio station as a runner. I really enjoyed the plot but something wasn’t quite clicking and I had the realisation that I was still trying to write as a twentysomething person. I was 27 when I wrote the first Belle de Jour book but I’m in my 40s now, my attitude to the world has changed and my attitude to internet fame has changed quite a lot. So I had to sit down and think who is the character who should be speaking and that was Erykah.”As she describes it, this book is less of a reinvention and more of a progression: “I couldn’t go on writing Belle de Jour type books because my life isn’t like that any more.”