Belgrave Survival DayThe 2016 theme of Belgrave’s annual Survival Day event is “no room for racism”. Along with traditional bushfoods from Wolithga Wares, didgeridoo meditation by Gnarnayarrahe Waitairie, and damper making with Uncle Phil, expect a great show from the Djirri Djirri dancers and a full music lineup, with Uncle Kutcha Edwards headlining.Edwards tells Guardian Australia that 26 January is “just another day” in the life of this Mutti Mutti man. “Just another day that I wake up and realise that I need to educate the uneducated, mainstream Australia [who] still don’t want to acknowledge that this place, now known as Australia, is where my ancestors have walked for over 80,000 years. They celebrate 228 years of dispossession and colonisation of my people, and don’t blink an eyelid.“It is my duty to keep dropping those pebbles in the pond. With each pebble dropped many ripples will appear. With every ripple is an opportunity for non-indigenous Australia to come and sit in dialogue with Aboriginal people.”• Belgrave Survival Day, noon to 5pm at Borthwick Park, Belgrave, VictoriaShare the Spirit festival, MelbourneSpend the day listening to the bluesy soul singer Emma Donovan as she takes to the Share the Spirit festival stage with her band the PutBacks. Joining her in the lineup are Vic Simms, Bunna Lawrie & Coloured Stone, Kutcha Edwards, Carroll Karpanny, and Tammy Anderson and the Deans, among others. The family-fun event also includes rock climbing, kids’ art workshops, Koorie night markets and art stalls.• Share the Spirit festival, noon to 6pm at Treasury Gardens, Spring and Flinders streets, Melbourne, Victoria      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Traditional dance at Tandanya Survival Day. Photograph: Nharla PhotographyTandanya Survival Day, Adelaide“Still thriving. Still surviving!” is the Tandanya Survival Day rallying cry. Head to the Semaphore Foreshore on the lands of the Kaurna people for a day of traditional dance, children’s activities with Aunty Steph Gollan, artefacts by Zebra Finch Aboriginal Men’s Group, a barbecue fundraiser, cultural awareness workshops, fireworks and a live concert featuring local talent, including Electric Fields and Bec Gollan. A community arts and youth engagement officer, Narisha Cash, says many of the day’s stalls will be run by emerging Indigenous businesses. “The entire community has been involved in every aspect of this event, from behind the scenes to the stage.”The day is not only dedicated to acknowledging the past but also to reinforcing the present and the futures of Indigenous people, Cash says. “Indigenous cultures are strong and there is much to be positive about, despite the negative effects of colonisation.” • Tandanya Survival Day, 12.30pm to 7pm on the Semaphore Foreshore, corner of the Esplanade and Semaphore Road, Adelaide, South AustraliaSurvival PerthBegin the afternoon at Survival Perth with a welcome to country and flag-raising ceremony, followed by traditional and contemporary music and dance and face painting, with a dedicated elders zone. Expect to see notable Western Australian music acts including the Merindas, Mervyn Mulardy, Phil Walley-Stack, Gina Williams and Guy Ghouse, Richard Walley and Jake & the Cowboys.• Survival Perth, 3pm to 7.30pm at Ozone Reserve, corner of Plain Street and Riverside Drive, Perth, Western Australia      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yabun festival is held on the traditional lands of the Gadigal people. Photograph: Michelle LakeYabun festival, SydneyThe annual Yabun festival is held on the traditional lands of the Gadigal people at Victoria Park, Camperdown. Every year the date inspires mixed emotions in the festival coordinator, Miah Wright. “It’s a day to reflect on the experiences of my ancestors, the loss of Aboriginal life and [the] harm that has been done to Aboriginal people and culture since the arrival of the First Fleet, but also a day to celebrate my culture and identity, and to feel incredibly proud about our survival and continued struggle for equality and recognition,” she says.Wright loves how many non-indigenous people attend the festival to connect with the Aboriginal community and learn more about Aboriginal people, history and culture. “I think the day offers an opportunity for the broader Australian community to reflect on the history of their country, and not just a preferred version of that history which overlooks the Aboriginal experience.”The uniqueness of Aboriginal culture – the oldest surviving culture in the world – is something all Australians can all be proud of, she says.Yabun means “music to a beat” in the Gadigal language. Headlining a stellar concert lineup that includes Radical Son and Leah Flanagan is the rock/reggae legend and Pitjantjatjara man Bart Willoughby. There will also be arts and crafts workshops, traditional Indigenous games, circus skill workshops, rugby league drills, singing and dancing lessons for kids, and traditional Aboriginal cultural performances at the Corroboree Ground. • Yabun festival, 10am to 6pm at Victoria Park, Camperdown, Sydney, New South Wales      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Australia Day is also known as Invasion Day and is dedicated to protest. Photograph: Sydney Morning Herald/Fairfax Media via Getty ImagesInvasion Day rallies, nationwideFor many Indigenous Australians, 26 January is a day dedicated to protest the ongoing effects of colonialism and call for sovereignty, treaty and social justice. It is also time to commemorate the actions of black rights activists throughout Australia’s history. There are protests taking place in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Canberra.For rally organisers in Sydney, the day should always be one of radical protest. “Governments and their hand maidens have been quite successful in turning Invasion Day into a day of ‘celebration’,” they write on Facebook. “Meanwhile, they continue to forget that our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples continue to suffer and diminish in numbers without any rights other than the rights of assimilation. “This injustice must be overturned and brutality of the colonialism that we are all forced to live by must be brought to the forefront.”• Are you running a Survival Day or Invasion Day event not listed above? Post the event details in the comments section