Can you recall when you first heard of time travel? I doubt it. Nowadays, time travel is in pop songs and TV advertising. From morning to night, children’s cartoons and adult fantasies invent and reinvent time machines, gates, doorways and windows, not to mention time ships and closets, Back to the Future DeLoreans, and those special London police boxes. Animated cartoons have been time travelling since 1925: in Felix the Cat Trifles with Time, Father Time agrees to send the unhappy Felix back to a faraway era inhabited by cavemen and dinosaurs. In a 1944 Looney Tunes episode, Elmer Fudd dreams his way into the future – “when you hear the sound of the gong it will be exactly AD2000” – where a newspaper headline announces “Smellevision Replaces Television”. In The Simpsons, Homer accidentally turns a toaster into a time machine.Two generations of TV watchers have been schooled in temporal paradox by Doctor Who, and when one Doctor gives way to the next, as will happen in the next series, the reincarnation generates almost as much speculation as the royal line of succession. Who will follow Peter Capaldi? She will be a Time Lord, after all.Nor does time travel belong solely to popular culture. The time-travel meme is pervasive. Neuroscientists investigate “mental time travel”, more solemnly known as “chronesthesia”. Scholars can hardly broach the metaphysics of change and causality without discussing time travel and its paradoxes. Time travel forces its way into philosophy and influences modern physics.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Travel in rococo style … Rod Taylor in the 1960 film adaptation of HG Wells’sThe Time Machine. Photograph: Allstar/MGMHow strange, then, to realise that the concept is barely a century old. The term first occurs in English in 1914 – a back-formation from HG Wells’s The Time Machine (1895). Somehow humanity got by for thousands of years without asking, what if I could travel into the future? What would the world be like? What if I could travel into the past – could I change history?By now The Time Machine is one of those books you feel you must have read at some point. You may have seen the 1960 movie, starring the matinee idol Rod Taylor as the Time Traveller (he needed a name, so they called him George). Bosley Crowther in the New York Times called this time machine “an antique version of the flying saucer”. To me it looks like a rococo sledge with a plush red chair. The movie also features the Time Traveller’s erstwhile companion, Weena, played by Yvette Mimieux as a languid peroxide blonde of the year AD802,701.George asks Weena whether her people think much about the past. “There is no past,” she informs him, with no discernible conviction. Do they wonder about the future? “There is no future.” She lives in the now, all right. Everyone has forgotten about fire, too, but luckily George brought some matches. “I’m only a tinkering mechanic,” he says modestly, but he’d like to fill her in on a few things.The inventions of HG Wells colour every time-travel story that followed. When you write about time travel, you either pay homage to The Time Machine or dodge its shadow. In Doctor Who, our hero is an alien from far, far away, with the entire universe at his disposal, but his travels are Earth-centric: he meets Napoleon, Shakespeare, English kings and queens, and a time-travelling stowaway called Herbert, whose calling card gives his name as HG Wells.American novelist William Gibson, who would reinvent time travel yet again in the 21st century, was a boy when he encountered Wells’s story in a Classics Illustrated comic book; by the time he saw the movie, he felt “The Time Machine was mine, part of a personal and growing collection of alternate universes”. In sketches, he had imagined his own time machine: “I suspected that time travel might be a magic on the order of being able to kiss one’s own elbow (which had seemed, initially, to be quite theoretically possible),” he later wrote.In his 77th year, Wells tried to recall how his ideas for the novel had come to him. He couldn’t. He needed a time machine for his own consciousness. “I have been trying, for a day or so, to reconstruct the state of my brain as it was about 1878 or 9 ... I find it impossible to disentangle ... The old ideas and impressions were made over in accordance with new material, they were used to make up the new equipment.” Yet if ever a story was kicking to be born, it was The Time Machine.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From left: Michael J Fox and Christopher Lloyd inBack to the Future Part II (1989). Photograph: Allstar/UniversalThe object of Wells’s interest, bordering on obsession, was the future, that shadowy, inaccessible place. “So with a kind of madness growing upon me, I flung myself into futurity,” says the Time Traveller. Most people, Wells wrote – “the predominant type, the type of the majority of living people” – never think about the future. Or, if they do, they regard it “as a sort of blank nonexistence upon which the advancing present will presently write events”. The more modern sort of person – “the creative, organising, or masterful type” – sees the future as our very reason for being: “Things have been, says the legal mind, and so we are here. The creative mind says we are here because things have yet to be.” Wells, of course, hoped to personify that creative, forward-looking type.After a century of imagining time travel, we still need to remind ourselves every so often that it is not real. It’s an impossibility, just as Gibson suspected. But when I put this viewpoint to a theoretical physicist, he gives me a pitying look. “Time travel is no problem,” he says. “At least if you want to travel to the future.”“Well, sure,” I say, “we are all travelling forward in time.”“Yes,” says the physicist, “but it’s not only that: time travel is easy! Einstein showed us how to do it. All we have to do is approach a black hole and accelerate to near the speed of light. Then, welcome to the future.”His point is that acceleration and gravitation both slow the clocks, relativistically, so you could age a year or two on a spaceship and return home a century hence to marry your great-grandniece (as Tom Bartlett does in Robert Heinlein’s 1956 novel Time for the Stars). This is proven. GPS satellites have to compensate for relativistic effects in their very exact calculations. It is hardly time travel, though: it’s time dilation (or as Einstein would say, Zeitdilatation). It’s an anti-ageing device. And it’s a one-way street. There’s no going back to the past. Unless you can find a wormhole. When you write about time travel, you either pay homage to The Time Machine or dodge its shadow “Wormhole” is John Archibald Wheeler’s word for a shortcut through the warped fabric of spacetime – a “handle” of multiply connected space. Every few years, someone makes headlines by hailing the possibility of time travel through a wormhole – a traversable wormhole, or maybe even a “macroscopic ultrastatic spherically symmetric long‑throated traversable wormhole”. I believe that these physicists have been unwittingly conditioned by a century of science fiction. They have read the same stories, grown up in the same culture as the rest of us. Time travel is in their bones.We have arrived at a moment of cultural history when the doubters and naysayers are the real practitioners of time travel, the science fiction writers themselves. “Totally impossible on theoretical grounds,” declared Isaac Asimov in 1986. He didn’t even bother to hedge his bets. It can’t and won’t be done.Kingsley Amis, assessing the literary culture of science fiction in 1960, felt he was stating the obvious when he said, “Time travel, for instance, is inconceivable.” Thus practitioners of the genre resort to some version of Wells’s hand-waving explanation – “an apparatus of pseudo-logic”– or, as time goes on, simply trust their readers to suspend disbelief. And so it’s the science fiction writers who remain willing to treat the future as open, while all around them physicists and philosophers surrender to determinism. “One is grateful that we have a form of writing that is interested in the future,” said Amis, “that is ready to treat as variables what are usually taken to be constants.”In fact, when writers did start trying to travel through time, many of them looked to the past. And many came up with the perfect plan. They tried to kill Hitler. They are still trying, to this day. In his time-travel novel, Making History, Stephen Fry imagines a world in which Hitler is unmade. The entire 20th century gets a makeover. This idea arose even before the US had entered the war: the July 1941 issue of Weird Tales featured a story called “I Killed Hitler” by Ralph Milne Farley, pseudonym for a Massachusetts politician and pulp writer, Roger Sherman Hoar. An American painter resents the German dictator for several reasons and goes back in time to wring the neck of 10-year-old Adolf. (The outcome, when he returns to the present, is not what he expected.)By the end of the 1940s, Hitler’s death at the hands of time travellers was already a meme. It is taken for granted in “Brooklyn Project”, a 1948 story by Philip Klass, publishing under the name William Tenn. The Brooklyn Project is a secret government experiment in time travel. “As you know,” an official explains, “one of the fears entertained about travel to the past was that the most innocent-seeming acts would cause cataclysmic changes in the present. You are probably familiar with the fantasy in its most currently popular form – if Hitler had been killed in 1930.” Impossible, he explains. Scientists have proved beyond doubt that time is “a rigid affair, past, present, and future, and nothing in it could be altered.” He keeps saying so, even as the project’s time-travelling “chronar” makes its way into prehistory and he and his listeners fail to notice that they are now slimy bloated creatures waving purple pseudopods.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Yvette Mimieux and Rod Taylor inThe Time Machine. Photograph: Allstar/MGMStephen Dedalus says memorably in Ulysses that history is a nightmare from which he is trying to awake. Is there no escape? What if Julius Caesar had not been murdered on the Senate steps, or Pyrrhus killed in Argos? “Time has branded them,” thinks Stephen, “and fettered they are lodged in the room of the infinite possibilities they have ousted. But can those have been possible seeing that they never were? Or was that only possible which came to pass? Weave, weaver of the wind.”In Fry’s variation, the hero is a student historian named Michael Young, who hopes to change history not by assassinating Hitler but by sterilising his father: “The historian as God. I know so much about you, Mr So-Called Hitler, that I can stop you from being born.” And then? Will the 20th century live happily ever after? (“It was insane of course. I knew that. It couldn’t possibly work. You can’t change the past. You can’t redesign the present.”) All you can do is ask, “What if?”The novelist makes the world. Kate Atkinson’s 2013 novel, Life After Life, changes the rules yet again. The shooting of Hitler comes in the opening scene: our heroine Ursula Todd fires her father’s old service revolver at the Führer across the table in a Munich cafe in 1930. Then she dies, and she keeps on dying, again and again, at different ages, in different ways, always starting over and trying to create the right outcome. “History is all about ‘what ifs’,” someone tells her, as if she didn’t know. Someone else urges, “We must bear witness … we must remember these people when we are safely in the future.” Atkinson said later:“I am in that future now, and I suppose this book is my bearing witness to the past.” We inhabit virtual worlds as avidly as the real one – in virtual worlds time travel could not be easier One consequence of Hitler being the favourite victim of time-travelling assassins is that he keeps on coming back to life. Here he is, living in the Amazon jungle, 90 years old, in George Steiner’s novel The Portage to San Cristóbal of AH. And here, alive and well in Berlin, still Führer of the Greater German Reich, having won the second world war in Robert Harris’s Fatherland. He is syphilitic and senile in The Man in the High Castle by Philip K Dick – Germany has won the war, because the young Franklin D Roosevelt was assassinated before he could put his strong hand on the tiller of history. The variations on this theme continue to multiply. As a literary genre, these counterfactual narratives are called “alternative history” in English, or ucronía in Italian, or uchronie in French … The labels arose only in the mid-to-late 20th century, when the genre began to explode, fed by time travel and branching universes. It’s possible to become quite obsessed with historical contingency. In a comprehensive study, The World Hitler Never Made, Gavriel D Rosenfeld analysed as many of the Nazi variations as he could find to see how many ended up making history “the same or worse without Hitler as opposed to being better”.There are few happy endings, he found. It is often the writers of science fiction or “speculative fiction” who give us, not only the weirdest, but the most rigorously analysed approaches to the working of history. It all might have been different. For want of a nail, the kingdom was lost. I coulda been a contender. Regret is the time traveller’s energy bar. If only … something. Every writer nowadays knows about the butterfly effect: the slightestflutter might alter the course of great events.A decade before the meteorologist and chaos theorist Edward Lorenz chose the butterfly for illustrative purposes, Ray Bradbury deployed a history-changing butterfly in his 1952 story “A Sound of Thunder”. Here the time machine – a vague mess of “silver metal” and “roaring light” – carries paying sightseers on Time Safaris back to the era of the dinosaurs.In the event, a feckless time tourist steps on a butterfly: “an exquisite thing, a small thing that could upset balances and knock down a line of small dominoes and then big dominoes and then gigantic dominoes, all down the years across Time.”Relativity v quantum mechanics – the battle for the universe The butterfly effect, though, is a matter of potential only. Not every flutter in the air leaves its mark on the ages. Most fade to nothing, damped by viscosity. That was Asimov’s assumption in The End of Eternity: that the effects of tampering with history tend to die out as the centuries pass, perturbations extinguished by friction or dissipation. His Technician confidently explains: “Reality has a tendency to flow back to its original position.” By and large, the creators of these fantasies have been wise enough to mock the hubris they imply. “Can anyone alter fate?” asks Dick in The Man in the High Castle. “All of us combined … or one great figure … or someone strategically placed, who happens to be in the right spot. Chance. Accident. And our lives, our world, hanging on it.” Surely some people, some events, some decisions matter more than others. Nodal points must exist, just not necessarily where we think.Stuck as we are in our own time, most of us aren’t trying to make history, much less change it. We take the days one by one, and history happens. Clive James has said that the greatest poets aspire not to change literary history but only to enrich it. One more reason for the special fascination with Hitler is his playing God. “The Führer was different,” thinks Atkinson’s Ursula, “he was consciously making history for the future. Only a true narcissist could do that.” Beware the politician who aspires to make history. Ursula herself lives in her many moments, one timeline after another, “the future as much a mystery as the past”.We cannot escape the alternative realities, the limitless variations. Now we have discovered the pleasure and pain of virtual worlds, inside the computer or the matrix, forcing us to contemplate the possibility that we ourselves are characters in someone else’s simulated reality – or our own. Nowadays, when one speaks of “the real world”, it is difficult to refrain from using ironic quotation marks. We inhabit virtual worlds as familiarly and as avidly as the real one. In virtual worlds time travel could not be easier. As Ali Smith puts it:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Changing the equation … Albert Einstein. Photograph: APWe’re well past the end of the century when time, for the first time, curved, bent, slipped, flashforwarded and flashbacked yet still kept on rolling along. We know it all now, with our thoughts travelling at the speed of tweet, our 140 characters in search of a paragraph. We’re post-history. We’re post-mystery.Why do we need time travel, when we already travel through space so far and fast? For history. For mystery. For nostalgia. For hope. To examine our potential and explore our memories. To counter regret for the life we lived, the only life, one dimension, beginning to end.Wells’s Time Machine revealed a turning in the road, an alteration in the human relationship with time. New technologies and ideas reinforced one another: the electric telegraph, the steam locomotive, the perfection of clocks. When the 19th century became the 20th, scientists and philosophers were primed to understand time in a new way. And so were we all. Time travel bloomed as a cultural phenomenon, with its loops and twists and paradoxes. We are experts, we are aficionados. We know it all now, as Ali Smith says semi-ironically, with our thoughts travelling at the speed of tweet. We are all time travellers into our own future.Another temporal shift has begun, hidden in plain sight. When the people most immersed in the advanced technologies of communication take for granted a persistent connection to others: habitually bearing mobile telephones, flooding the channels with status reports, rumours, factoids. They, we, engage or inhabit a new place, or medium (there is no escaping the awkward terminology). On the one hand is the virtual, connected, light-speed realm variously called cyberspace, or the internet, or the online world, or just “the network”. On the other hand is everything else, the old place, the “real world”. One might say we are living simultaneously in two contrasting forms of society and experience.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tardis time … Photograph: BBCCyberspace is another country. Time happens differently there. Formerly communication occurred in the present, perforce. You speak, I listen. Your now is my now. Then the written word split time: your present became my past, or my future your present. Even a blaze of paint on a cave wall accomplished asynchronous communication. Telephones delivered a new simultaneity – stretching the present across the spatial divide. Voicemail created new opportunities for time shifting. Messaging returns to the instant. And so it continues. The devices, wired and wireless, are always sending and always listening. With persistent connectedness time gets tangled. You can’t tell the recaps from the prequels.A river of messages is a “timeline”– you’re in my timeline; I heard it in my timeline – but the sequence is arbitrary. Temporal ordering can scarcely be trusted. The past, the present, the future go round and collide, bumper cars in a chain of distraction. When distance separates the thunder from the lightning, cyberspace puts them back together.In the wired world, creating the present becomes a communal process. Everyone’s mosaic is crowd-sourced, a photomontage with multiple perspectives. Images of the past, fantasies of the future, live videocams, all shuffled and blended. All time and no time. The path back through history is cluttered, the path forward cloudy. “Fare forward, travellers!” TS Eliot wrote, “Not escaping from the past / Into different lives, or into any future.” Without the past for background and frame, the present is only a blur. “Where is it, this present?” asked William James. “It has melted in our grasp, fled ere we could touch it, gone in the instant of becoming.” The brain has to assemble its putative present from a hotchpotch of sensory data, continually compared and contrasted with a succession of previous instants. It might be fair to say that all we perceive is change – that any sense of stasis is a constructed illusion. Every moment alters what came before. We reach across layers of time for the memories of our memories.Time Travel is published by 4th Estate on 23 February.