“I never did like her and she looked very odd,” said a teacher at Gasworks Comprehensive. “But she was very good at maths.” The girl in question, Juliet Slater, stopped at a newsagent as she walked home from school for the last time. “I want some fags,” she said. She left without thanking the shopping assistant because she was, as everyone agreed, an odd girl.“Yer won’t be goin ter universiter,” her mother said in her very common working-class accent. “Yer may have five grade A A-levels, wha’eva they are, but yer dad wants yer ter be a sekertary.”Juliet left the house and hitched a lift to old Miss Pennecuick’s, whom she had met while feeding squirrels in the park and had unexpectedly invited her to stay in her house along with her five Spanish servants. “It’s very good of you to come,” said old Miss Pennecuick. “Now go and sit on that tuffet while one of my nieces plays some Mendelssohn.”Juliet sat grumpily on the tuffet for, in truth, she was as odd as everyone declared she was. Her hair was a mess, her face was not pretty, she was rather too thin. The doorbell rang and a servant was despatched to welcome the guest. Moments later, in walked Frank Pennecuick, old Miss Pennecuick’s wealthy great nephew, whose love for the huge Earth had led him to set up an institute to investigate the cultivation of edible grasses. Frank’s heart skipped a beat when he saw Juliet. She was, as everyone had always remarked, extremely odd but there was a purity about her that captivated him. How unlike the dryads and moon-spirits like Ottolie and Melisande, to whom he was usually attracted. He did so hope she didn’t like that dreadful new “punk” music.Constance, the doctor’s assistant, was greatly displeased by the interest Frank was showing in the odd girl, as she had always rather hoped she might marry him. Juliet remained sat on the tuffet, oblivious to this swirling cauldron of emotions reminiscent of Verdi at his Verdiest, deliberating over the mathematical equations of coincidence that had preoccupied most of her waking life.“I want a book on coincidence,” she demanded of Arthur in the local bookshop.“I think we’ve got something by Arthur Koestler,” he said. “Would you like to go to the pictures with me?”“OK. Though I prefer elephants.” Arthur then wisely chose to largely absent himself from the rest of the book.“Oh dear,” said Frank. “My great aunt is dying. She wants to see you, Juliet.” Juliet rose from her tuffet, went upstairs and said: “I hear you’re dying.”“You’ve never really cared about me, have you?” croaked old Miss Pennecuick.Old Miss Pennecuick died before Juliet was able to reply in the affirmative and was surprised to find so many people sobbing when she returned downstairs. Constance, who had drunk several whiskies too many, was disturbed to see the comfort Juliet was being given by Frank and decided to speak her mind.“I’ve alwus lurved you,” she slurred. “Why don’t we get married?”“Now you mention it, that’s a very good idea,” said Frank. “I don’t really love you but I don’t suppose that matters.The reading of old Miss Pennecuick’s will was a moment of almost no tension. Frank was to get hundreds of thousands of pounds to spend on edible grasses, while Juliet was left the princely sum of £10,000. “I think you should go to Cambridge to study coincidence,” Frank said.Juliet took the train to Cambridge and was interviewed by Miss Lipson, the cleverest woman at the university. “I want to create a law of coincidence that is equal to the second law of thermodynamics,” said Juliet. “What do you know about coincidence?” asked Miss Lipson. “Well, I think it’s one hell of a coincidence that a mediocre manuscript that Stella Gibbons knew was well below her usual standard and didn’t want to be published has been pulled out of a cupboard by her heirs after her death in a shameless attempt to cash in.”Having got the best degree ever won at Cambridge, Juliet went back to live in a shed in Frank and Constance’s garden where she would talk to the birds and think about coincidence. Over the next 15 years, almost nothing happened. Frank and Constance had five children while Juliet sat on a tuffet and wrote her seminal work on coincidence. By coincidence, the only person to read it was a lecturer at the university of Qu’aid, somewhere in the Middle East, who offered her a £100,000 fellowship.Frank, Constance and Juliet made a long and boring journey to the desert. Following a brief deliberation over the merits of giving a fellowship to a woman, the university of Qu’aid decided to go ahead. After that, they all went home to be very dull again. And then Juliet died. Which wasn’t such a coincidence.Digested read, digested: Cold comfort.