Premieres High Maintenance   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is one of the best shows in years, and now it’s finally on TV. Created by husband-and-wife duo Katja Blichfeld and Ben Sinclair, High Maintenance is a critically acclaimed web series about a pot dealer (Sinclair) who goes around New York City dispensing his wares. Each episode features the story of one of his oddball clients, who are always looking to puff for very different reasons. HBO gave Blichfeld and Sinclair a bigger budget and platform so that even more people could experience these hilarious, touching, insightful, surprising, and totally amazing slices of life. New viewers don’t have to catch up on old episodes to enjoy the show, but they’re all available on HBO Go for those who get hooked after their first dose. See, it’s just like drugs. HBO, Friday 16 September at 11pm ET.Sixty-eighth primetime Emmy awards      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Can they beat Veep? Game of Thrones, Mr Robot, The People v OJ Simpson and Better Call Saul. Composite: AMC, FX, Getty Images & HBOYes, it’s that time of year again – when you find out that your favorite show isn’t going to get an award because Veep stole them all. Jimmy Kimmel hosts as everyone on TV tries to pretend that it’s just as exciting as the Oscars. It kind of is. ABC, Sunday 18 September at 7pm ET.FinalesAmerican Ninja Warrior      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hanging around: Josh Levin in American Ninja Warrior. Photograph: NBC/Getty ImagesYou know summer’s over when the kids are back in school and we have to say goodbye to America’s favorite obstacle-course show. (Sorry, Wipeout.) Tune in to see if anyone can conquer the four-stage Mount Midoriyama, which was only toppled for the first time last year. Potential winners include stuntwoman Jessie Graff, the first woman ever to finish stage one. NBC, Monday 12 September at 8pm ET.Returning showsAmerican Horror Story   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This year Ryan Murphy and company are being even more secretive about what the story will be for the sixth season of this anthology fright fest. They’re not even sending out screeners to the press, which either means they want to shock everyone for the premiere or this season is stinkier than Lady Gaga’s meat dress after four days out of the refrigerator. Reports say that it’s going to be about the lost colony of Roanoke, which would be pretty interesting and would keep with the pattern of previous seasons being set in the past. Either way, we’ll be watching, even if it is through our fingers. FX, Wednesday 14 September at 10pm ET.Documentary Now!   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bill Hader and Fred Armisen’s parody of Grey Gardens was one of the most genius things on television last year. They’re back with six more episodes, in which they do hilarious send-ups of some of the most famous documentaries of all time, including The War Room, the 1993 movie about Bill Clinton’s first presidential campaign. Funny and timely! It’s like these two never left SNL. IFC, Wednesday 14 September at 10pm ET.New to streamingFleabag   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Following its ripping success with Catastrophe, Amazon is back with another edgy UK show about horrible people. All six 30-minute episodes aired across the pond in August, and the Guardian’s Stuart Heritage gave the show a glowing review. “It’s a squalid little story of a life gone wrong. The lead character owns a cafe that terminally haemorrhages cash. Her boyfriend keeps leaving her thanks to her habit of masturbating to Barack Obama speeches, and she fills the void with meaningless sexual encounters with objectively terrible people,” he wrote. Sounds just like my kind of show. Amazon, Friday 16 September.Roots   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s hard to improve on a classic, but this History Channel remake of the beloved miniseries does just that. TV critic Dave Schilling points out that everything from the acting, effects, production design, and even the cockfighting scenes has been dramatically improved, even though the remake didn’t have quite the killer ratings as the 1977 original starring LeVar Burton. In case you missed it, now the whole thing is available for you to watch at your leisure. Look, even being able to watch it on streaming is an improvement. Hulu, Thursday 15 September.TV newsWinners from the Creative Arts Emmys include Game of Thrones, Making a Murderer, RuPaulMeryl Streep is making a TV show with JJ AbramsStar Trek celebrates 50th anniversarySorry, Angela Lansbury will not be on Game of ThronesBreaking Bad creator working on HBO show about Jonestown massacreFX cancels Tyrant and Sex&Drugs&Rock&RollABC cancels Mistresses