Three female directors have films playing in competition at Cannes this year – a relatively high number for the festival, which has a history of being criticised for male bias. American Honey – the first movie made in America by Red Road and Fish Tank director Andrea Arnold – is among the 20 films screening in competition. It stars Shia LaBeouf as a hard-partying magazine salesman meandering through the midwest.Cannes film festival 2016: full list of films The other women competing for festival’s top prize, the Palme d’Or, will be French actor and director Nicole Garcia, with second world war drama Mal de Parres, and German film-maker Maren Ade, whose film Toni Erdmann is about a father who ambushes his daughter with jokes, believing she has lost her sense of humour.The festival has often been criticised for not celebrating more women or non-white film-makers in its most high profile strand. Four women featured in 2011, but none was invited to the main competition the following year, and only a maximum of two have been included in the intervening years. Cannes 2016: the films showing at this year's festival - in pictures Cannes head Thierry Frémaux faced a backlash last year after reports emerged that women were barred from the red carpet by festival security staff for not wearing high heels. Frémaux denied that wearing such footwear was part of festival regulations. Of the competition’s male contingent, Ken Loach is perhaps the most surprising inclusion. The 79-year-old director was thought to have retired after his last film, Jimmy’s Hall. But Loach, a festival perennial who won the Palme d’Or in 2006 for The Wind That Shakes the Barley, will return with another drama: I, Daniel Blake. It tells the story of a carpenter who falls ill and struggles to navigate the red tape of welfare support.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Has a place ring-fenced ... Ken Loach’s I, Daniel BlakeOlivier Assayas will also return to the Croisette with Personal Shopper, which reunites him with Kristen Stewart – whose role in 2014’s Clouds of Sils Maria won her a César award. Stewart also stars alongside Jesse Eisenberg and Steve Carell in the festival’s opening film, Woody Allen’s Cafe Society, which is screening out of competition.Other key competition titles include the fifth film from Midnight Special director Jeff Nichols: Loving, which stars Ruth Negga and Joel Edgerton as a real-life couple battling racial prejudice in mid-50s America. The film is tipped for an awards push, with a November release date in the US.Danish director Nicolas Winding Refn, whose movies Drive and Only God Forgives made major splashes in 2011 and 2013, is back with The Neon Demon, a tale of vampiric supermodels in Los Angeles starring Elle Fanning and Christina Hendricks.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ready to shine ... Elle Fanning in Nicolas Winding Refn’s horror movie Neon DemonSean Penn’s fifth film as director, The Last Face, is also selected. A drama set among aid workers in Africa, it stars Javier Bardem and Penn’s former partner, Charlize Theron.Other returning veterans include Pedro Almodóvar, who has cancelled all press for new film Julieta since his name was linked to the Panama Papers, the Dardenne brothers, Xavier Dolan, Cristian Mungiu, Brillante Mendoza and Bruno Dumont.Dolan’s movie, It’s Only the End of the World, marks the second time in competition for the 27-year-old French Canadian – who has also served on the jury. His last film, Mommy, won the Jury prize in 2014. A more left-field inclusion is Paul (Basic Instinct) Verhoeven’s new movie, Elle, which stars Isabelle Huppert as the CEO of a video games company who is raped in her home and attempts to track down her attacker. Jim Jarmusch has one film in competition – Paterson, which stars Adam Driver as a bus driver – and another playing at a midnight screening: his Iggy Pop documentary Gimme Danger.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ryan Gosling and Russell Crowe in The Nice GuysA small protest against changes to national labour laws delayed the press conference, in which Frémaux and president Pierre Lescure outlined the 49 films that were selected from 1,869 submissions. The line-up includes films from 28 countries. Steven Spielberg’s adaptation of Roald Dahl’s The BFG, starring Mark Rylance in the title role, will play out of competition, as will Money Monster, the latest directorial effort from Jodie Foster, starring George Clooney as a newscaster kidnapped by a young man (Jack O’Connell) outraged by the role of the banks in the financial crisis. Julia Roberts plays Clooney’s producer. Also out of competition is Cafe Society, and The Nice Guys, a 1970s-set crime caper with Russell Crowe and Ryan Gosling. Not named in today’s announcement was Terrence Malick’s The Voyage of Time, an Imax documentary tackling “the birth and death of the known universe” which had been tipped for inclusion. This year’s Cannes begins on 11 May. George Miller, whose desert-set adventure Mad Max: Fury Road was one of last year’s major successes, chairs the jury.This article was amended on Thursday 14 April 2016. We mistakenly said that Emir Kusturica’s new film would be showing at the festival. This has been corrected.