I often wonder how the East and the West came to view mythological creatures so differently. Are dragons lucky or scary? Are rabbits wise or timid? I gave such questions a lot of thought when I created invisible animal companions for the characters in my book Moon Princess. When it comes to my favourite Chinese myths, you won’t be surprised to find many fantastical creatures starring among them. Have a Happy new year of the Monkey!1 Sun Wukong – the monkey kingThe most famous monkey in China is surely Sun Wukong. He is one of the main characters in a Chinese classic, The Journey to the West. At first Sun Wukong is a very naughty monkey, eager to take over the world, and it costs Buddha a lot of effort to tame him. He later becomes a loyal companion to the monk Xuanzang on his adventurous journey from China to India and back again.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chinese actor Liu Xiao Ling Tong performs Monkey King to celebrate the Chinese year of the monkey in New York, US. Photograph: Li Muzi/Xinhua Press/Corbis2 Chang’e and Hou YiHou Yi had a potion to become immortal, but it was sufficient only for one. He did not want to part from his beloved wife Chang’e, so he made her look after the potion for him. One day when Hou Yi wasn’t home, his student Feng Meng tried to steal the potion from Chang’e. She knew she couldn’t defeat him, so she drank it. The potion made her fly all the way to the moon, where she is still today, watching the world. When the moon is the brightest, during the Chinese Moon Festival, you can try to spot her up there.3 The Jade rabbitMany stories are told all over Asia about the Jade Rabbit. He became a companion of Chang’e and is often pictured next to her on the moon. He is closely associated with the medical profession, frequently shown carrying a mortar and pestle.How I discovered London’s lost Chinatown 4 The weaver girl and the cowherdAnother rather sad love story is the one of the weaver girl Zhinü, daughter of a goddess, and the cowherd Niulang. They fell in love, married and had children. But when the goddess found out about them, she banished them both to different sides of the Milky Way. However, once a year, magpies will help out and form a bridge between the two lovers. The day is celebrated as China’s Valentine’s Day. Who in the Western world would have thought that magpies can be so kind? In China, they are even a symbol for love and happiness.5 The legend of the white snakeThis legend has a happier ending. The story is set in the beautiful city of Hangzhou, famous for its lake. A white snake lived in the lake. She had gained magical powers and could turn herself into a human. She falls in love with the scholar Xu Xuan and after overcoming many obstacles they finally convince the gods to bless their union.6. The dragonHe clearly is a hero in Chinese mythology: the most powerful and divine creature, controller of the water. Dragons were the symbol of the emperor, bringing luck and good fortune. It is said that the legendary Yellow Emperor turned into a dragon and flew to heaven when he died.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Meet one of the dragon sculptures at the Summer Palace in Beijing, China. Photograph: Wiliam Perry / Alamy/Alamy7. Guardian lionsYou might have seen them in front of houses, palaces or temples and they have been placed there because people believe in their protective powers. Often they come as a pair, the male holding a ball that represents the world under his paw, the female protecting a lion cub.8 Pangu and the creation of the worldAccording to Chinese mythology, the big bang happened when the god Pangu cracked the egg that he was sleeping in. This egg contained Yin and Yang, which then separated. The lighter Yang rose to create the sky, Yin formed earth and Pangu made sure both were held in place with his hands and feet.9. NianThere is a story to explain why Chinese new year is celebrated with lots of noise. Once there was an ugly, scary monster called Nian who regularly came down from the mountains to hunt people. The villagers were so afraid of it that they locked themselves in their houses on the days it was coming. One wise old man in the village suggested it would be better if they stuck together and chased the monster away. So they did, with the noise of drums and fireworks. The monster was so surprised and afraid that it ran around until it was completely exhausted and the villagers were able to kill it. This is how the first Chinese New Year celebration started. The name of the monster, “Nian”, also means “year” in Chinese.10 How the Chinese zodiac startedHere is one popular version of how the animals were allocated to the Chinese zodiac: The Jade Emperor announced a race for all animals to compete for the twelve places in the Chinese zodiac. The rat was supposed to wake up her neighbour the cat in the morning, but simply forgot. The rat joined the other animals in the race to the palace, climbing on the ox, who was running in front, only to jump off when they had reached the palace to become the first animal of the zodiac. It was followed by the ox, the tiger, the rabbit, the dragon, the snake, the horse, the goat, the monkey, the rooster, the dog and the pig. The cat, however, arrived far too late and missed out. This is why the cat hates the rat so much that she will always try to kill her.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Barbara Laban’s Moon Princess is available from the Guardian bookshop. 