Brian Bennett, drummer with Cliff Richard and the Shadows and co-writer of hits such as Summer Holiday, is considering one of his more unlikely successes. “I’ve had three hit rap records,” he says, with a thoroughly bemused smile. “I did one for Nas, one for a guy called Kanye West … in fact, I had a No 1 rap thing in some American chart about three months ago.”“Really?!” I ask.“Yes! It was with some guy whose name escapes me at the moment. I think it was … Drake?”He laughs as he clocks my rising astonishment. “Oh, my granddaughters think it’s fantastic. Grandad’s cool! He’s a rap writer!”What makes this story particularly unlikely – if, indeed, you need to make the story of the Shadows drummer providing beats to Drake’s Summer Sixteen any more unlikely – is that the song in question, Glass Tubes, never made it into the charts, and wasn’t even sold in shops.Instead, it was recorded as a library music track in 1975.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Keith Mansfield’s Grandstand theme on YouTubeIf you’re wondering exactly what library music is, then perhaps the most surprising thing you’re set to discover is just how well you already know it. Those stirring intros for Grandstand, Ski Sunday and Wimbledon? That quirky theme to Grange Hill? The ominous drumbeat that opens Mastermind or the military march that signalled it was time for Crimewatch? These will all be familiar to readers of a certain age, even if you were unaware they were all plucked from the UK’s vast archives of library music – essentially stock songs recorded with no definitive purpose, other than to be perused and selected in the future for use on TV, film or radio projects.As Keith Mansfield, composer of the Wimbledon and Grandstand themes, says: “There was no pressure to have a hit record. We were making music that people might find useful, and some of that would be really unusual music – strange time signatures or key changes. If it got picked up, well, that was a bonus. And if it lasted 35 years? Wonderful! Who could have ever expected that?” You had very little time and very little control. There was no overwriting. Any mistakes went in Mansfield was one of several young musicians who helped reinvent KPM, perhaps the most famous of all library labels. He was there during its golden period between 1966 and 1973 when, energised by the revolution sweeping British pop music, KPM went from being a slightly old-fashioned, second-division library to the world’s premier destination for production music. The music Mansfield composed, alongside names such as Alan Parker, Johnny Pearson and Alan Hawkshaw, still sounds fresh: a mixture of pop, jazz, funk, big band and orchestral work played with a soulful looseness that’s impossible to imitate without access to top musicians playing live.That’s undoubtedly the reason why KPM have decided to relaunch their catalogue by getting those original musicians back together to make another record. I’ve joined them in the studio as they do so – there are four trumpets, trombones, saxophones, french horns, plus drums, Rhodes piano, Hammond, and the effect is invigorating.   Keith MansfieldThe musicians’ stories are equally refreshing. Despite their considerable talents, they had no idea that the songs they were composing at the time would end up soundtracking the lives of future generations. Mansfield says he first became aware of this when his 13-year-old daughter got home from school and asked if he’d written Grandstand. “I thought it was going to be some wind up, but she said, ‘All my friends think it’s a wonderful tune.’” I realised that it had gone somewhere else – it’s part of their growing up.”The reason why the songs have stood the test of time is simple: they’re clever pieces of music. Grandstand transitions gracefully from pop triads to big band chords without the listener detecting a shift, for instance, whereas Wimbledon is constantly changing key. But none of those ideas were brought to the table with the sporting events in mind. Rather, when the likes of Johnny Pearson, Johnny Scott and Mansfield composed a theme for Grandstand, the programme’s makers decided that they didn’t like any of the tracks in KPM’s archive and went for something completely different instead. “I thought, ‘Why have they chosen that? That’s not sports music!’” laughs Mansfield now. “But they saw in it things that I didn’t. They saw the fun in it. And that it was quite chameleon-like – it could work for a small event or a big event, too.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘You had to walk in there on the day and play what you were given’ … the KPM OrchestraThese songs were not long projects that had been in the works for months. Rather, they were bashed out, six at a time, during frantic three-and-a-half-hour sessions – nobody knew at the time that some would go on to be so iconic. As Mansfield recalls: “All this music flying past people. All that energy. And the whole orchestra in the studio at the same time. You had little time and very little control. There was no overwriting. Any mistakes went in.”The Grange Hill theme was one such speedy example. Alan Hawkshaw was told during a session in Munich that they had half an hour to spare and could he write something quickly. “Luckily, I had some good players. I sketched it out, and they came up with that. It was probably for some comedy album at the time.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘One of the simplest pieces of music I’ve ever written in my life’ … Richard Whiteley and Carol Vorderman on Countdown. Photograph: ITV/Rex ShutterstockTime was always at a premium – musicians were expected to be able to play on sight. Hawkshaw says: “You had to walk in there on the day and play what you were given. It was daunting.” He recalls Mansfield frequently working through the night on parts for the next morning’s sessions. One of Hawkshaw’s fastest jobs was writing the opening music for Countdown, which was “one of the simplest pieces of music I’ve ever written in my life”, and not one he’s particularly proud of musically – although he does reveal that the royalties from the music go to his foundation supporting underprivileged students at the Leeds College of Music – meaning that every time you hear someone tackling a conundrum it is helping a music student catch a break.John Cameron, whose credits include the soundtracks to Kes and Poor Cow, has fond memories of them all running to the pub during their 15-minute break: “The last one to the pub had to buy the beer! We also had a string section who had to ride motorbikes everywhere because if they were in Olympia in morning, Lansdowne in the afternoon and Kingsway in the evening, it was the only way you could get there and park in time.”A string-playing motorcycle gang? “That’s right!” It’s the same snappy pace today, as brass-powered tracks from Parker and James Clarke whizz by. Cameron unveils some slinky jazz, while one of Mansfield’s numbers sounds like an orchestral update of Bobby “Blue” Bland’s Ain’t No Love in the Heart of the City. “These players are the cream,” marvels Bennett, “the top players you can get anywhere in the world.” Like Mansfield, Bennett has a healthy résumé of sports themes. His BBC golf theme earns him respect on the golf course, while when he toured Australia with Cliff Richard and the Shadows in 2010 cricket fans couldn’t believe that he’d penned the song that leads the coverage there. “That’s more important to an Australian cricket fan than any Summer Holiday,” he smiles.As we watch them fly through takes, he tells me how his two pieces on the new album are dedicated to Robin Phillips, the man he calls his mentor. Phillips was responsible for reinventing KPM, bringing this new generation onboard to fuse the old orchestral sound with pop and soul energy. Everybody talks of him giving young talent a chance. “He taught me how to write for pictures,” says Bennett. “It’s not just about the music – the music is to make the pictures look good and to get people out of the kitchen to go watch something on television.”The lost geniuses of library music He says you need to have an imaginary programme in your head when you write (indeed, his politically edged new song We Come in Peace was written with a current affairs show in mind). But as we keep discovering, the programme you have in mind may bear scant resemblance to the one it ends up on. One piece Bennett wrote for a jaunty children’s comedy show called Holy Mackerel ended up being picked up by the BBC’s Rugby Special.It’s unlikely that this is the last time we’ll see these musicians together – Mansfield et al still meet up and play together every now and then as the KPM All Stars – but it could be the last library album they record. “It was a lot of fun,” says Hawkshaw, surveying the studio as the music plays. “I do miss the companionship.”KPM 1000 will be out later this year.