Catch up on the episode three recap hereOh my. Call centre woman changes everything. “Two years ago ... I never told anyone.” Another rape victim. But what does it mean? It gets creepy beardy “man cave” man off the hook as he would have been in prison. Or does that date actually incriminate him because it was just before his arrest? Either way, it doesn’t really exonerate anyone else – and it might be totally unrelated. Just when you thought it couldn’t get any more complex. This was a brilliantly suspenseful episode with only a few “Whaaa ...?” moments. (Like the football match, of which more later.) The flashback to the least fun birthday party ever was excellent. “I want to help. I want to remember.” A fantastic piece of editing, showcasing what a fine actor Julie Hesmondhalgh is. “I brought some plates back, trying to be helpful.” So Cath’s 50th wasn’t in fact an orgy or a swingers’ party? Shame. Still, it was amazing to see Hesmondhalgh transforming her character into the person Trish was pre-attack. And as for the extremely gruelling reconstruction ... “Smell of water, leaves, vodka. A light shining from over there.” Miller looked like she was going to throw up too. As usual, Hardy was pushing too hard for information. “What was that light, Miller?” It’s the old buffer, the owner of the house, of course. Only he doesn’t live there; we don’t know who lives there. (Surely a massive oversight? It directly overlooks the scene of the crime.) And this, the sinister wheelbarrow of doom? And the cricket bat that is one of a pair? More work for the overworked DNA lab who already hate Hardy.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Hardy with the most reckless convicted rapist in the country. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVMeanwhile the most reckless convicted rapist in the country has moved back to the area. In a world of too-obvious suspects, he truly wins the award (unless he’s so obvious that it actually must be him?) “I’ve served my sentence.” Creepy, creepy Aaron with his creepy data entry and his creepy man cave. A man who “likes to play”. (Massive skin crawl alert. More girlie pics alert.) And he’s another customer of the fishing twine emporium! Why on Earth do these people go fishing in the middle of the night? If he’s on parole, would he really speak to a police officer like that? This pushed credulity too far. As did Cath’s cheering football tournament, which was not entirely suspect but really quite odd – and universally supported. Did no one think to say: “It’s a bit tasteless, Cath. Maybe in six months’ time?” What a very strange match, featuring 80% of the suspects in the murder case and with Hardy and Miller as the main spectators. Why would Beth take part in the game as a rape crisis worker? And wouldn’t Cath find a better way to help her “best friend”?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The ever-expanding web of deceit … Sarah. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVBut Cath is in her own zone – and it might be a zone of revenge. “Could you describe your marriage?” “I’d describe it as loveless.” Oh dear. “I don’t know where Jim was at the end of the evening. I couldn’t find him anywhere.” Is Cath taking advantage of the opportunity to set Jim up? Why would she do that – because she knows Jim is the Saturday morning man? Finally we learned the identity of Trish’s surprise weekend date. “If you didn’t attack her, why would your DNA be part of her sample?” Of course. “On the morning of your wife’s birthday.” Miller’s face! This will change things, as Trish has now lost Miller’s support. More shenanigans piled up. We were reminded of the inadequacy and peculiarity of Clive. Ian’s girlfriend Sarah became part of the web of deceit. Mark Latimer acquired Joe Miller’s address and cooked some fish he had not cooked since Beth’s 28th birthday. (That seems a suspiciously long time to not cook fish.) “Just think of me as a guest chef for the night.” “No agenda?” Mark is the most agenda-filled person in Broadchurch and that is saying something. Oh, yes, and I’m forgetting the two most important things. In Trumpton the only person left to be friends with Hardy’s daughter is the sister of the boy murdered in series one. And as if things weren’t weird enough, Hardy went on a Tinder date.Miller vs Hardy: the score so far      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Neither of them are getting a good night’s sleep after this one … Hardy and Miller’s run-in with Aaron. Photograph: Colin Hutton/ITVExcellent double-act action during the meeting with the convicted rapist. “Well, he sounds like a delight. Can’t wait to meet him ...” “Fussy about age, are you?” “Quite the gallery you’ve got.” “Keeps me motivated.” Neither of them are getting a good night’s sleep, though I doubt either of them have ever slept for longer than an hour in their lives. Miller’s tickled face at the thought of Hardy actually doing something with his time off was a picture. But he was doing something interesting and amusing. Well done, Hardy. The pub scene was fabulously awkward, but not as awkward as the moment when Miller and Hardy clashed in the street. Heart-in-mouth moment. A draw. Hardy 1. Miller 1.Not the usual suspectsAny sensible person must now highly suspect the old buffer who owns the property, is obsessed with the waterfall, and also potentially moved the sinister wheelbarrow of doom. I don’t believe it was his wife; I think he has the other cricket bat. Then, of course, suspect number 4,861 comes in the form of the convicted rapist who has handily moved into the area. Why, though, haven’t they checked out twine man’s alibi yet? They knew about his twine access even before the goalposts. I must also mention The Vicar with a Sense of Humour. We have no concrete reason to suspect him but he keeps popping up looking shifty. Still not off the hook: Ed Burnett, Jim Atwood, Ian the ex-husband, Clive the taxi driver, the grumpy catering man, the guitarist in the band ... I’ve given up trying to remember them all.Life lessonDo not have sex with your wife’s best friend on the morning of your wife’s 50th birthday party. It’s pretty basic. Trademark Wessex words of wisdom“You think I raped her at my own wife’s birthday party?” Unfortunate choice of words for a man who had to admit in the next sentence that he may not be a criminal (or so he claims) but that he did indeed have sex with Trish on the morning of his, er, wife’s birthday.“Was that you doing ‘supportive boss’?” Miller’s most sceptical face yet.“She did all the swiping?” You bet she did. Hardy doesn’t swipe.“White wine, dry. Like I like my men.” Stupid Things You Say On Dates When You Are Nervous, No 784.