Life Stripped Bare 9pm, Channel 4A life experiment show, in which participants part with all their stuff for 21 days – including their clothes. In Cardiff, the initial naked dash to the storage unit from which Tom, Andrew and Georgia can retrieve one item a day provides some laughs. In Manchester, Jon and Laura prove game and mutually supportive. Meanwhile in London, fashion designer Heidi knocks it out of the park, creating bedding, clothes, even shoes – all on day one. Surprisingly sweet. John RobinsonThe Living and the Dead 9pm, BBC1Week two of the period chiller, and it seems to be settling into a “demonic visitation of the week” format. Now a boy has visions that lead Colin Morgan’s scientist to unearth more of this Wicker Man/Straw Dogs community’s awful secrets. The show has a shimmering confidence but, with 20th-century industrialisation and some standard sex-and-grief stuff in the mix, too, there’s a danger of it doing none of these things properly. Jack SealeLife Inside Jail: Hell on Earth 9pm, ITVThe titular inferno is Albany County Jail in New York State, home to 1,000 residents and 240 officers. It’s a compelling glimpse into the miserable reality behind the United States’s peculiar enthusiasm for incarcerating its citizens – most of those held in Albany are yet to be charged with anything. The insights from inmates and wardens make for compelling viewing, but nobody seems to think this is doing anybody any good. Andrew MuellerB Is for Book 9pm, BBC4This absorbing film follows a multicultural class of four-year-olds in Hackney, east London, as they try to get to grips with the basics of reading. Following their progress at school and at home over the course of a year, it becomes a heartening story of graft and patience punctuated by moments of entertaining mischief. Scrappy stop-motion interludes and fairytale-like narration from the kids themselves distinguish it even further from the usual obs-doc fare. Graeme VirtueMr vs Mrs: Call the Mediator 9.30pm, BBC2Tonight’s episode is the final instalment of the series following the work of National Family Mediation, which helps settle disputes between couples. Jess and Matt can’t agree on custody of their children, while Parvez and Robina are in conflict over their assets. Fans of bitterness and bickering are in luck, but one is left with the feeling that, despite the agreement of those involved, this should be precisely no one else’s business. Ben ArnoldAgatha Raisin 9pm, Sky1The village seems suspiciously deserted one sunny morning; all apart from the local vet’s waiting room, where a rugged new locum is attracting the attention of pet owners all around town. It’s Agatha (Ashley Jensen) who finally manages to blag a date with the local heart-throb, with resultant ill will from elsewhere culminating in an untimely demise for the young vet. Could the killer be an under-appreciated lover, or is a resentful spouse of same the one to blame? Mark Gibbings-Jones Broad City 12midnight, Comedy CentralIn the concluding episode of the show’s two-part series finale, Abbi and Ilana embark on their free trip to Israel – a real scheme that aims to educate young Jews about the country. It feels as if almost everything that could have gone wrong already has, until Abbi gets her period on the flight and the pair must scour the plane for a tampon – or the raw materials to construct one. Superlative slapstick for the 21st century. Rachel Aroesti Today’s sportTennis: Wimbledon 2016 Weather permitting, we should by now have reached the women’s quarter-final stage. 12.30pm, BBC2Cycling: Tour De France Stage four: Saumur to Limoges. 2pm, ITV4International T20 cricket: England v Sri Lanka A slog-fest from the Ageas Bowl in Southampton as the Sri Lankans conclude their tour. 6pm, Sky Sports 2