Every year, the GameCity festival in Nottingham provides a showcase for new and innovative game developers and thinkers. Now based at the National Videogame Arcade (NVA) and in shops and cafes around the city centre, the event is a celebration of independent development and a focal point for thinking about what games are and can be.Each morning of the festival, the Guardian has been running a chat show in the NVA toast bar, meeting some of the developers showing their new projects, as well as academics analysing the place of games in modern culture. Luckily we’ve been recording the audio, so more people can get to hear them.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On Wednesday, Guardian games editor Keith Stuart and writer Jordan Erica Webber spoke to Party for Introverts, a new UK-based independent studio made up of Russian designer Arseniy Klishin and artist and designer Laura Gray. Their first game Thing-in-Itself is an interactive short story that explores the relationship between lead characters Molly and Ted, inspired by Immanuel Kant’s distinction between how objects appear differently to different people and the idea of the “thing in itself”. Through Ted’s eyes, interacting with objects in his room and having conversations with Molly, the player witnesses how relationships inevitably look different to the various parties involved. It’s a really fascinating way to think about Kant’s philosophy, and Klishin tells a nice story about the person who influenced him to become a programmer.We also spoke to Elizabeth Simoens, a writer and director of live-action video games for international specialist Fire Hazard her own company SeaSlyph. She tells us about how live video games work, how they combine actors, strange locations and large groups of players – and what happens when you end up running a live game for a group of art historians who’ve never played video games.Our final guest that day was games writer and academic Kat Brewster, who recently completed an MA dissertation on the ways in which gamers subvert games and find their own ways of playing. Examples include speed-runs through Dark Souls, abusing the character creation tools like Polygon’s Monster Factory, and trying to play Skyrim as a a non-player character.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On Thursday morning we spoke to Humble Grove, creators of the much-discussed 29, a magic realist point-and-click adventure, that follows two graduates – Bo and Ao – as they prepare to move out of their shared flat. Developers Tom Davison and Hana Lee tell us about how the game is semi-autobiographical, taking place in a flat which is designed to closely resemble their own.We’ll be posting another collection of interviews on Monday.