“Nourish that a little more, really make it sing,” says John Wilson. “Keep those quavers purposeful. .” The conductor and the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra are rehearsing Mendelssohn’s Hebrides Overture, a piece the orchestra could play perfectly adequately in its sleep, but there will be no slumber here. With Wilson at the helm, this ship will rock.Wilson is best known for his Hollywood-themed concerts at the Proms – a staple of the festival for the best part of a decade. And so it came as a surprise to some when in February he stepped in at the last moment to conduct the premiere of a trumpet concerto by Mark-Anthony Turnage and Rachmaninov’s second symphony with the London Symphony Orchestra, and received rave reviews. It’s clear there is more to Wilson than an intimate knowledge of the Great American Songbook.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, with whom he has had a long association, certainly know this – it recently made Wilson its associate guest conductor, and the concert he is rehearsing in Glasgow – it also includes Korngold’s bravura Symphony in F sharp major and a batch of orchestrated Schubert songs sung by rising-star baritone Benjamin Appl – is his first in his new role. He will also conduct them at the Proms this summer, and makes a second visit to the Royal Albert Hall the following month to perform Oklahoma! – he isn’t about to abandon Hollywood – with his own hand-picked orchestra. A performance is only ever a snapshot of how you feel about a piece on any particular day. After six hours of rehearsal during which he has relentlessly rooted out anonymous quavers and inimical minims – “I may be doing it right or I may be doing it tastelessly, but let me do it my way,” he says at one point – we talk, oddly enough on the stage where he has just been rehearsing. A public conversation with no public.Wilson started working with the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra in 2002, initially doing mainly light music. “I’ve always done that and I’ve never apologised for it, but they gradually let me spread my wings over the years and I’ve done everything from Eric Coates to Dutilleux with them. I’m grateful to them for not pigeonholing me.” He will conduct Vaughan Williams and Holst’s Planets with the orchestra at the Proms – another standard repertoire piece that he promises to breathe fresh life into. “The Planets is a party piece of mine; I do it differently every time. A performance is only ever a snapshot of how you feel about a piece on any particular day.”He does, though, still get pigeonholed by some, as was demonstrated by one response to his LSO concert. “I had to learn the Turnage trumpet concerto in a day, which was something. Rach 2 I knew inside out,” says Wilson. “There was one review that talked about me making the leap from doing light music to symphonic music. I thought ‘Hang on. That’s what I do all the time.’ It implies I’m just wandering the world conducting Hello, Dolly! [In fact] I’ve done about 11 symphonies this year so far.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Last year he conducted Madama Butterfly at Glyndebourne Touring Opera, and is in discussion with the summer festival for a future project – he won’t say what. He also has three other operas lined up. “My work is guest-conducting symphony orchestras in standard repertoire,” he says. “I’m recording Copland with the BBC Philharmonic and will start making records here too. I’m never going to moan about the fact that there are some people who think I only do one thing – better to be pigeonholed in the eyes of the public for something than to sit at home twiddling your thumbs, but my musical diet is very varied.” I have done lots of things that other conductors might not touch He puts the range of his repertoire down to his unusual background: working-class boy from Gateshead who fell in love with music (and Hollywood musicals in particular), taught himself to play the piano with the help of a musical mother, did A-level music at Newcastle College and formed his first orchestra at the age of 16. “I had a good school music teacher and a percussion teacher who took me under his wing,” he recalls in an accent that retains its Geordie lilt. “There was a lot of amateur music-making – brass bands, orchestras, choirs and operatic societies doing Gilbert and Sullivan. I cut my teeth doing all of that and loved every minute of it, which is probably why I’ve always been a practical musician.” He never had any doubt that his life would be devoted to music. “I’ve always known I was going to be in music, ever since I can remember. It wasn’t even that I particularly wanted to. I had to do it. There was a fire in my belly. I still feel like that. I still get thrilled if anybody rings me up and offers me a gig.”“The thing I’ve held on to throughout my career is that I never wanted to just do one thing,” he says. “I guess that comes from the fact that I’m largely self-taught, and when you’re 10 or 11 and just listening to music because you love it you’ve got nobody to tell you what you should or shouldn’t be listening to. That manifests itself in a rather zany repertoire list – I have done lots of things that other conductors might not touch.”Wilson went on to the Royal College of Music, joining as what he calls a “reluctant and not very good percussion player” but switched to composition and, later, conducting. “I had a couple of professors who ensured I was given the time and encouragement to blossom, and I went from being almost thrown out at the end of my first year to winning the Tagore Gold Medal [the college’s foremost award for students]. They just let me do my thing.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Wilson rehearses with the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra. Photograph: John Wood / BBCHe started his own eponymous orchestra in 1994, when he was just 22. “It happened by accident,” he says. “I was playing the piano at the Grosvenor House hotel when I was still a student. I did afternoon tea with a violinist and evening concerts with a jazz trio. So I ended up having two sets of friends – Royal College of Music classical musicians and friends from the Guildhall and the Academy who were jazz players, and it was the fusion of those two sets of enthusiasms that led us to play this jazz-tinged orchestral music. It went from being just for fun to being something that people outside of us were interested in and we got offered gigs and residencies.” The John Wilson Orchestra was born, and is still touring, and wowing audiences at the Proms each year where their concert is always one of the first to sell out. “What I am interested in and have always been interested in are songs, whether they be by Schubert or Cole Porter or Harold Arlen or Jerome Kern,” he says. He is a one-man scourge of musical barriers. “What is the division? Why is it there? Why is Schubert any different from the best songs of Arlen, which are in themselves complete emotional worlds and take just as much care and attention to detail in interpretation and delivery. It’s either worth doing or it’s not.”Wherever his guest-conducting career takes him, however, he has no intention of abandoning his own orchestra or the Hollywood side of his musical personality. “It’s like my dessert,” he says. “It’s totally different repertoire and the only place I ever really do it.” What if a really huge job came up? “I’m not looking for a huge job,” he says. “I’m looking for a job that would satisfy me. My ambitions, such as they are, are entirely musical. They’re about pieces I want to do and that I think I have something to say about.” He likes to quote Simon Rattle’s line about conductors only really getting going after they reach 60. “I’ve been conducting for about 30 years now,” says Wilson, “so I feel I might if I’m lucky get to the starting gate soon.”•The Proms begin on 14 July. John Wilson conducts Holst’s The Planets and Vaughan Williams’ Ninth Symphony with the BBCSSO on 25 July and Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Oklahoma! with his own orchestra on 11 August.