At the start of the 1980s, long before the internet and social media, I was Google for thousands of preadolescent girls in the UK. I’d receive sackloads of letters – up to 500 each week – asking for advice on everything from love bites to loneliness. I received scabs stuck to pieces of Sellotape, urine samples in Charlie perfume bottles.The reason for this unusual bounty? I was an agony aunt. Well, I was two agony aunts: Cathy and Claire for Jackie magazine. Yes, the shock news is that they weren’t real and they were one person. The letters were initially sent to a Fleet Street office, mainly to give the illusion of a hip, cool London base. Then they made their way in overnight lorries to the magazine’s actual home in Dundee.  These were different, innocent, double denim kind of days Being Google wasn’t always a giggle. I soon learned to keep an eye out for suspicious envelopes. “Dear Cathy & Claire, I found this matter in my pants this morning,” read one neatly written letter containing a sinister sample. It was duly passed around the office and the consensus was that the matter was definitely digestive biscuit crumbs – possibly from the sender’s midnight feast.Being Cathy and Claire was one of my first jobs. I started when I was 19. The role was an extremely responsible one. Every letter received a reply, a fact all Jackie staff are extremely proud of. Losing friends, how to make new friends; getting a boyfriend, how to keep a boyfriend. The vast majority of letters we received were about problems that now would be sorted out in five minutes flat on a WhatsApp group chat. But these were different, innocent, double denim kind of days.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We shared flats and fashion tips – and big bags of Flumps’’ … Gayle Anderson Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianThe magazine was a combination of best friend and big sister to the majority of Britain’s teenage girls. Readers trusted us. We didn’t patronise them. How could we? We were just a keen but green raggedy band of young people, away from home for the first time. Often from small, rural towns just like them, and not much older or more worldly-wise than they were. The office was like an eternal sleepover party. We shared flats and fashion tips and big bags of Flumps. We helped each other surreptitiously search for missing stories or transparencies on desks untidier than any teenage bedroom. We held hands and danced round the desks to the latest tunes on a Friday afternoon. We were all growing up together.Jackie printed its last issue in 1993, but its name and ethos have never truly gone away. Now a new show, inspired by the magazine’s 70s heyday, has begun a UK tour. Jackie the Musical tells the story of one ex-reader named, unsurprisingly, Jackie and played by Janet Dibley, star of 80s sitcom The Two of Us. Now in her 50s, newly single and tired of modern dating methods, Jackie turns to her 15-year-old self, and to Jackie, for advice. The show’s director, Anna Linstrum, admits that being an avid Jackie reader herself gave her lots of inspiration for the show. “My memories of reading it are still vivid,” she says. “The designer and I had long meetings about where to pitch the show visually, how to realise the aesthetic. We wanted to make it as authentic as we could, to invoke that incredible era. Our writer, Mike James, read almost the entire back catalogue. It was a delightful magazine, and I defy anyone not to be charmed if they flick through a copy today.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Janet Dibley as Jackie in the musical. Photograph: Eric RichmondAdding even more 70s authenticity is the show’s choreographer, Arlene Phillips, the former Strictly Come Dancing judge. “I’ve always been a fan of a good photo story,” she says. “I’ve even modelled in a few myself, back in the day. And those 70s dance moves are in my DNA. It’s the era when I moved from Manchester to London and created my dance group, Hot Gossip.”Jackie – it was so much more than a must-read for every teenage girl When the show kicked off its tour in Dundee this month, a staff reunion was organised. I looked out my patchouli oil and platforms and excitedly teetered along. Could the musical rekindle the spirit of Britain’s favourite teen mag? The sell-out crowd were around 95% female. Like myself, most had long since exchanged the first flush of youth for the hot flush of menopause. They arrived in glittered-up gangs, ready to party hard.Visually, the show is a retro-tastic delight. There are huge gasps when copies of the magazine make an early appearance in a cleverly choreographed dance routine. Tank tops, suede skirts, floppy hats and nausea-inducing, swirly psychedelic blouses set the scene. The casting of Daisy Steere as young Jackie is inspired. In Oxford bags and baker boy cap, she looks like one of Jil Shipley’s iconic, long-legged fashion illustrations brought to life.The music selections are straight from Jackie’s pop pages and ramp up the feelgood factor: the Osmonds’ Crazy Horses has them going wild in the aisles, while David Cassidy’s Could It Be Forever? induces a synchronised swaying of plastic prosecco cups from the audience. There are quizzes, broken-heart badges and a dance number with those all-important photo-story balloons. But the biggest cheer of the night? That went to Cathy and Claire.Jackie the Musical is at Churchill theatre, Bromley, 22-26 March. Then touring until 30 July. 