Most years, when it comes to retrospectives, December belongs to the exceptional. But this hasn’t been most years. This has been a dog, with misery piled on top of disappointment piled on top of misery. So perhaps, given the abject state of 2016, it’s more fitting to concentrate on the worst TV shows of the year. Thankfully, we’ve got plenty to choose from. Here are the six worst offenders:Crisis in Six Scenes (Amazon)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   My god, what a DOA series this was … Woody Allen and Miley Cyrus in Crisis in Six Scenes. Photograph: AmazonWhen it was announced that Woody Allen was making a six-part series for Amazon, the man himself announced: “I don’t know how I got into this. I have no ideas and I’m not sure where to begin.” At the time, it sounded somewhere between false modesty and sly self-deprecation. But then people actually got to see Crisis in Six Scenes, and now it doesn’t. My God, what a DOA series this was. It didn’t have a plot. It was sluggishly paced. The whole series felt like a threadbare film idea meaninglessly stretched to total breaking point. This has to count as the worst thing poor Woody has ever done.Vinyl (Sky Atlantic/HBO)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A soapy, overblown series … not even the most devoted Scorsese fan could get behind Vinyl. Photograph: Sky TVTheoretically, Vinyl couldn’t fail. Produced by Mick Jagger and Martin Scorsese, with a first-class soundtrack, it promised to tell the story of the 1970s music industry with more authenticity than ever before. But it didn’t because, unbeknownst to anybody, what Jagger and Scorsese had actually dreamed up was a soapy, overblown cartoon of a series not even the most devoted Scorsese fan could get behind. It was every bad musician biopic you’ve ever seen, assembled Voltron-style into a harrowing kaiju of cliche. Vinyl won’t be back, and nobody will miss it.Top Gear (BBC)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Too flaccid and eager to please … Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc in Top Gear. Photograph: BBC Worldwide   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc in trailer for revamped Top GearOf all the repercussions to have come from Jeremy Clarkson lamping his producer, the most upsetting was the hobbled Top Gear that sprang up in its wake. Although replacement hosts Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc gave it their best shot, the format turned to ashes in their hands, becoming simultaneously too flaccid and eager to please. It was a hollow shell of a show, and Evans legged it as fast as he could. The rave reviews received by Clarkson’s new show The Grand Tour – which, even more than his old series, is just a load of doddery old men larking about near some cars – only compounded Top Gear’s failure.The X-Files (Channel 5)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Suffocated by ineptitude … David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson in The X-Files. Photograph: Ed Araquel/AP   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The X-Files reboot trailerChances are you probably forgot The X-Files was even revived this year, thanks to the tepid reception it received. Not that it should have been a surprise, of course; the show didn’t even get to the end of its original series with all its wheels intact, and both spin-off feature films were dismal. Although the new series had one undoubted bright spot – the knowing, self-referential Mulder and Scully Meet the Were-Monster – it was suffocated by the ineptitude of its neighbours. In particular the finale, My Struggle II (in which humanity experiences an extinction-level event and the whole thing plays out like a Romanian am-dram version of House MD) might go down as the worst episode of the series ever produced. The X-Files didn’t deserve to end like this, but it sure as hell doesn’t deserve to come back again either.BBC sitcom season       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Like a CCTV feed from an unlicensed regional Are You Being Served? dinner performance. Photograph: Kieron McCarron/BBC/PA“We’re bringing back all the old sitcoms your parents liked!” said the BBC. “No, don’t do that, because it’ll taint those shows for fans of the originals, and alienate younger viewers,” replied literally everyone else. “LALALALALALA CAN’T HEAR YOU,” screamed the BBC – as it commissioned what to all intents and purposes looked like a CCTV feed from an unlicensed regional Are You Being Served? dinner performance. It’s genuinely difficult to find anything positive to say about any of the revived sitcoms – maybe Goodnight Sweetheart didn’t quite make me want to pull out my fingernails as much as I thought it would – except that at least nobody at the BBC will make such a silly decision ever again.The Fall (BBC)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The whole thing was made up of scenes where nothing happened … The Fall. Photograph: Des Willie/BBC/The Fall 3 LtdListen, it is not fair that Gillian Anderson has two shows on this list. Gillian Anderson is a brilliant actor, and it probably isn’t her fault she was dealt such a crummy hand this year. But Jesus, the final series of The Fall was awful. The whole thing was made up of either scenes where nothing happened, scenes where too much happened, or scenes where things happened for no reason whatsoever. And then it ended, and nobody noticed because they had all died of boredom three weeks earlier. Worse still, this whole piece now looks like a weird vendetta against Gillian Anderson, who is wonderful. Thanks a lot, 2016.