Betty Wright was a little late for the 60s heyday of Motown, Stax and Atlantic, but she wasted no time catching up. Her first album was released in 1968, when she was only 14; she had her first pop hit when she was 17; she earned her first gold record when she was barely 18 – all despite coming from a religious family that refused to allow anything other than gospel to be played at home. Looking back on her childhood in an interview in 2012, she said she managed to persuade her mother to bless her nascent pop career by also being an A student who “did all the right things in school”, as if being musically precocious wasn’t enough of an achievement.In those early records, there’s an amusing disjunction between Wright the youthful singer and the put-upon female characters she portrays. In Babysitter – one of the first songs she wrote herself – a woebegone mother warns women not to trust any “16-year-old schoolgirl” around their husbands, and it sounds perfectly reasonable until you remember that Wright herself was still in her teens. She is the queen of the cautionary tale and practically an agony aunt when it comes to dispensing relationship advice, but she should be approached with caution unless you want a scolding administered along with tissues and gin. Secretary is clear on whose fault it is if a man has a work affair: the secretary “takes the time to listen / To what he has to say / While all you do is nag him / A thousand times a day.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Tonight is the Night on Soul Train.Cult heroes: Helen Reddy, the 'queen of housewife pop' with a secret dark side In the entry on Wright in the Rough Guide to Soul and R&B, Peter Shapiro expresses reservations about Wright’s first hit, Girls Can’t Do What the Guys Do: for him it’s “a strange record given Wright’s assertive catalogue, and it sounded as though she was fighting with the chauvinistic lyrics”. And yet the line she takes – that girls can’t sleep around, or attempt to revenge a boyfriend’s misdemeanours, “and still be a lady” – is of a piece with so many of the songs in her catalogue. In the late 80s she released the “Pain trilogy”, a sequence of songs reflecting on the ups and downs of a long relationship, which have a similar core of conservatism. In No Pain (No Gain), for instance, she explains “something you young girls might not understand” – that love requires work, commitment and forgiveness, and “a little bit of pleasure’s worth a whole lot of pain”. Even when she bosses men around, she does so with solicitude for them and an eye on women’s responsibility: in Love Don’t Grow on a Love Tree, from her brilliant 1974 album Danger High Voltage (such a perfect title), she tells a two-timing man that he can’t have “every woman you see” – but can’t help herself hoping “you get just what you need”. And on her 2011 comeback album The Movie, in a duet with Snoop Dogg called Real Woman, she instructed all the young men in her life: “Get yourself a real woman” – no gold-diggers, basically; women willing to do the work/commitment/forgiveness thing – “so you can be a real man”.There are a lot of young men – and women – in Wright’s life because, as she told the online magazine Soul and Jazz and Funk, she’s the “mamma-sister-auntie-cousin type of woman”. Instead of a “diva type” driven by the desire for fame and awards, her energies are focused on supporting other singers and musicians. Joss Stone – another absurdly precocious teen star – is one of her most high-profile mentees, and Wright was nominated for a Grammy for her co-production work on Stone’s 2004 album Mind, Body and Soul. But there are plenty of others, and even a “songwriting camp” Wright set up called the Most, abbreviated from Mountain of Songs Today (equals Mountain of Songs Tomorrow). “I want to inspire people to write,” she told her local newspaper, the Miami New Times, in 2012: write, that is, as opposed to sample, a practice that receives seriously short shrift in the opening track from The Movie, Old Songs. “What you gonna listen to,” she demands, “if you ain’t making nothing new?”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Clean Up Woman on Jool’s Annual Hootenanny 2012.Cult heroes: Bob Last – subversive Scottish post-punk label creator A diligent businesswoman, Wright has taken people to court for not paying royalties when they sampled her records, and in 1985, noticing that men in the music industry tended to be paid more readily than she did, set up her own record label to ensure she would never have to fight for what she had earned. Three years later, she used it to release her album Mother Wit, winning a gold record in the process. Mother Wit opens with two of the Pain songs, but maybe a better signature tune is Ms Time: “I wait on no man,” Wright shrieks with relish, “you wish that I stand still for you.” Across her career what you hear is a mixture of take-no-crap assertiveness and hard-won acceptance, belligerent attitude and genuine kindness. In an interview from 2012 with Blues & Soul magazine, she talked of how important it is that music “helps you get from Monday to Tuesday” and gives its listeners hope. She focuses on romance, she said, to communicate the message that “no matter how bad the economy gets, as long as I have you here we can live in a tree! You know we can go out and bathe in the lake if we have to, but if you are with me and I am with you, we can do this. I think those are songs that people need to hear now,” and she’s right, we do.