In the early 70s, Mike Mandel would walk from his house in north Hollywood to the busy intersection of Victory Boulevard and Coldwater Canyon, where he would stand on the pavement and point his camera at the cars waiting at the traffic lights. “I liked the idea that I would stand in one place every day and the pictures could come to me,” he says.Back then, way before digital cameras, surveillance and smartphones, people were more relaxed about a stranger on a street with a camera. “I was using a wide-angled lens and had to get in really close, because I wanted a reaction. Some guys flipped me the finger, but more often people would just smile back or pull a face. They just thought it was kind of funny.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I wasn’t happy when a window was up, but now the reflections look really interesting.’ Photograph: Mike Mandel/Robert Mann Gallery and Stanley/BarkerAround 45 years later, Mandel was convinced by his publisher to revisit the 75 rolls of film he shot, and the results took him by surprise. “When I started to go though all the photographs, which I hadn’t looked at it since I was 20, I saw the whole project in a different light. There were so many pictures I had overlooked. At the time, I wasn’t happy when a car window was up because of the reflections, but now the reflections look really interesting.”The result is People in Cars, a sustained snapshot of a time when, as Mandel puts it, “people were not as paranoid about cameras”. These are quintessentially California photographs. Everyone, young and old, looks tanned and healthy. The American dream of the good life is alive and well here, inextricably linked to the freedom promised by freeways and endless mobility. Back then, people were not so hung up on health and safety: no one is wearing a seatbelt; children and pets sit up front in the passenger seat; drivers steer with one hand while enjoying a smoke.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘People were not so hung up on health and safety.’ Photograph: Mike Mandel/Robert Mann Gallery and Stanley/Barker“It’s important that the pictures are not just nostalgic,” says Mandel, “because photography tends to render the past romantic. But, you know, we still drive cars, we still make right turns at the intersection. There is a timelessness to the images. There is also humour in there, not least me appreciating the foolishness of the situation I was creating by just being there.”Mandel, by his mere presence on the pavement, caught people unawares or just at the point when they registered the tall kid with the camera leaning in to frame them. Children stare back intrigued as their parents turn away or gaze defiantly back at him. One or two people cover their faces with their hands. He shoots the sultry and the surly, the carefree and the curious and sometimes, but not very often, the really pissed off. He mentions an image of a guy giving him the finger while the woman in the passenger seat turns away, her long hair covering her face.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Children stared back intrigued.’ Photograph: Mike Mandel/Robert Mann Gallery and Stanley/Barker“It’s such an aggressive image,” says Mandel, “but I can’t believe how sharp that finger is and how sharp her hair is. They just collide in a real horrible explosion. Then you notice the little kid in the back seat who looks like he has been left behind all by himself.” Did he see all this at the time? “No. There’s a lot of that kind of drama going on in some of these pictures and, to be honest, it was not present when I made the pictures. That’s the joy of processing, you discover all this other stuff.”I meet Mandel in a huge warehouse space in London, where the book is in the process of being printed. As giant, whirring machines layer ink on to huge swaths of paper, he studiously peruses the results, talking with the staff, as only photographers can, about almost imperceptible alterations in tone and light. He is best known for his conceptual collaborations with Larry Sultan, most notably Evidence, the 1977 book of found photographs they curated.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There is a timelessness to the images – and humour.’ Photograph: Mike Mandel/Robert Mann Gallery and Stanley/BarkerPeople in Cars predates their partnership and, he says, is influenced by Walker Evans and Robert Frank as much as by such deadpan California conceptualists as Ed Ruscha. “In terms of an art community, LA was a small place back then. You could chat to Ed Ruscha at an opening and then go visit him in his studio to talk some more. He was certainly an influence not least in his productivity and the way he disseminated his work through cheap, but brilliantly made, artist’s books. But I was aware of Walker Evans, too. He changed the accepted landscape of America with those images of road signs and billboards.”It was the growth of car culture in LA that spurred Mandel to make this series. “I grew up in the San Fernando Valley, where you walked everywhere. But at some point the car became central to the American experience – especially in California.” In Mandel’s still surprising photographs, the car symbolises LA and all its double-edged promise, but it is the people who stare out of its interior that intrigue – not least because they often gaze at this pedestrian who has disrupted their reveries as if he is from another planet. • People in Cars is published on 11 May, price 35. Mike Mandel’s Good 70s exhibition opens at Robert Mann Gallery, New York, on the same day.