David Harewood has spoken of how depression nearly led him to give up on acting and become a lorry driver before he got a key part in the critically acclaimed US drama, Homeland.The 50-year-old, who made history in 1997 when he became the first black actor to play Othello at the National Theatre, told of how he was nearly penniless and spiralling into a deep depression caused by the death of his school friend, Luigi Belcuore, in 2009.“Before Homeland, I had £80 in the bank and no idea what I was going to do. I seriously considered giving it all up and getting a job as a lorry driver,” he said in an interview with this week’s Radio Times.Harewood said that Belcuore’s death “completely knocked me for six. He was always the one who believed I was going to make it”.After initially rejecting the Homeland script without even reading it, it was only after the insistence of his manager that he went on to eventually film a lacklustre audition on his iPhone.“I never even did an American accent,” he admitted. Although already a highly respected actor, Harewood’s role as David Estes, the deputy director of the CIA’s counterterrorism center, was the making of him in the US, where he went on to play parts in the television show Supergirl. Other roles include a part in Sacha Baron Cohen’s new film, Grimsby. Streatham's no s***hole, it's a vibrant place I'm proud to call my home Harewood, from Small Heath, Birmingham, has been drawing on his own experiences for a new project on Sky Arts, David Harewood’s F Word, which examines the rejection that is part and parcel of an actor’s life.It also sees Olivia Coleman admit to not being in work for six months after Broadchurch and Damian Lewis discuss his disastrous movie Dreamcatcher. Harewood has also been vocal on issues of race in the entertainment industry and in society in general, suggesting some years ago that he probably would not have been handed the “authoritative” role Estes in Homeland if it had been produced in the UK.He also speaking out when the OscarsSoWhite hashtag emerged to highlight a lack of diversity in terms of the nominees for the awards ceremony.In a now-deleted tweet, he called on actors to turn up at the Oscars in “blackface” as “a sign of solidarity” and said he welcomed the protests over the lack of diversity in the Academy Award nominations. “In England, you feel like a member of the revolutionary guard the minute you even mention race. But I do think that the OscarsSoWhite phenomenon will have to reflect back on England. “What people are essentially saying is that they want to see more diverse stories. It’s not about putting three black people in the back of the shot. It’s about making it normal to see a black actor in a leading role,” he said. He added: “It still amazes me that Idris Elba is the only black actor in a lead role on British TV.” Read the full interview in this week’s Radio Times, on sale Tuesday.