Papa Wemba – who has died, aged 66 – was one of Africa’s most celebrated, flamboyant singers, but he also became famous for all the wrong reasons. For one, he became notorious for using his band as a people-smuggling organisation. When he visited Europe from the Democratic Republic of Congo, he would often be accompanied by a sizeable entourage of musicians and supporters, who, it was claimed, were not always genuine. Many never intended to return to Kinshasa once the tour was finished. It was an elaborate illegal immigration operation that earned Papa Wemba a jail sentence in France in 2004, and the refusal of a visa to return to the UK the following year.He was also known for his extraordinary dress sense. The country he grew up in had been battered by war and poverty, and he became leader of a group of young Congolese who hit back at the hardship and gloom that surrounded them by developing an obsession for expensive designer clothes. The sapeurs were the dandies of Kinshasa, and Papa Wemba was their hero, always dressed in finery, even after his jail humiliation, as shown by the DVD for his 2006 New Morning set, in which he sported spotted black trousers and a black hat.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest His activities and his looks inevitably attracted attention, but Papa Wemba deserves to be remembered for his music, and as one of the great stars who continued the legacy of Congo’s classic rhumba tradition. In Kinshasa he was rightly treated as a celebrity, even when the West was becoming fascinated by the rise of the new Congolese styles of Staff Benda Bilili or Konono No 1. I last saw him playing in a Kinshasa club in 2009, and he was still in impressive and emotional voice, his voice soaring easily over the gently driving soukous backing, to the delight of a far younger audience. He was a singer and a showman to the end, and it seemed appropriate that he died on stage during a performance in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, as his dancers continued to perform, initially unaware that the singer had collapsed.Wemba was born Jules Shungu Webadio in what was then Léopoldville in the Belgian Congo, and he was influenced by music in his childhood. His adopted mother was a pleureuse, a professional mourner, and the influence of her laments could be heard in heard in some of his slower songs, though he became an international celebrity by matching the emotion that he heard in her singing with to a very different and rousing dance style.Sapeurs: Society for the Advancement of Elegant People - in pictures  He was born in the right time and place for an aspiring singer. Thanks to musicians like the great guitarist Franco and his band OK Jazz, and other bands from African Jazz to Africa Fiesta, Congolese rhumba or soukous became massively popular across the continent, and then in the West, thanks to its insistent rhythms and guitar lines. Founded in 1969, the band Zaïko Langa Langa set out to redefine the music in a band that sometimes featured over 20 musicians on stage, and Papa Wemba became one of their key vocalists. They notched up as series of major hits in the early 70s, before Wemba went off to work with the now legendary Viva La Musica and then with his own band Molokai.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In the 80s Wemba moved to Paris to develop his international career, becoming a key figure in the (then) new genre of world music with albums that included recordings for Peter Gabriel’s Real World. He was the opening act on Peter Gabriel’s Secret World tour in 1993, and headlined at Womad in 2000, instantly establishing himself as a festival favourite. The 2012 compilation set Real World At Womad starts with Bakwetu, a reminder of Papa Wemba’s glorious, easy-going voice and his mastery of the slinky, hip-swinging rhythms of soukous , takenfrom his 1998 album Molokai. He became a dancefloor hero across Africa and Europe, but he was still happy to experiment. One of my favourite Wemba songs was a reminder of his earliest roots. On Excuse Me, on the 1998 Molokai album, the king of the sapeurs made his solo a capella debut on a song that showed his emotional range and the influence of his adopted mother. He was one of Africa’s great voices.