Hartwig Fischer, the new director of the British Museum, grew up in a land bisected by history. He was born in Hamburg in West Germany in 1962, a year after the communist eastern German Democratic Republic put up the Berlin Wall. Fischer had relatives in East Germany, in Dresden, the former capital of the Electors of Saxony, famous for the art collections amassed by its old rulers, yet a place isolated from much of the world and supervised closely by the Stasi in Fischer’s youth.“Dresden was one of the places where it was hardest to view western television – it was the most completely cut off under the GDR,” says Neil MacGregor, the recently retired British Museum director into whose near-sacred shoes Fischer steps on Monday. MacGregor’s book, Germany: Memories of a Nation, is meanwhile coming out in paperback and he admires his successor for precisely those qualities that might arouse some British scepticism in these days of Brexit debate – his characteristically German virtues and experiences.Hartwig Fischer: the German helping the British Museum change the world Among Fischer’s specifically German perspectives is that of someone who saw his nation reunified just as he became an adult. Old enough to remember the cold war – he reputedly has a fondness for 1980s pop – he was young enough to make the most of the new opportunities and excitements when the communist GDR was consigned to history’s dustbin in 1989 – and to take on the new – Germany’s challenges.“For his generation the great task is completing the reunification in every sense, and that means allowing the east-German cities to play their true part,” says MacGregor.Making use of East German archives opened up for the first time, he embarked on a PhD on the painter and sculptor Hermann Prell, who was professor at the Dresden Academy of Fine Arts in the decades leading up to the first world war. Prell was a painter of myth and history, whose grand murals decorated Dresden’s Rathaus and Albertinum and whose life’s work was largely destroyed in the firestorm caused by the bombing of the city in February 1945. Fischer got his doctorate in 1994, and 15 years later returned to Dresden as director of its legendary art collections. There he has dug into the past to liberate the future, setting out to show that far from embodying a narrow Germanic identity, the collections amassed by the Electors of Saxony in the 18th century, when Enlightenment ideals reached even the most absolutist German courts and the wisdom of the east was celebrated by every European apostle of Voltaire, are a treasure trove of what he calls Weltoffenheit – cosmopolitanism and global open-mindedness.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The British Museum, London. Photograph: John Walton/PALooking at Fischer’s campaign for a cosmopolitan Dresden it starts to become clearer why the British Museum’s trustees chose someone virtually unknown in Britain to replace MacGregor. It will not to be easy for this “foreigner”, as one British newspaper described him when his appointment was announced in September, to take over from a national intellectual hero. “How can anybody take over from MacGregor in a way?” wonders the architect David Chipperfield, who knows and admires Fischer. “It’s a bit like taking over Manchester United.” Yet there are good reasons Fischer will do better in Bloomsbury than Alex Ferguson’s successor did at Old Trafford.Asked if he sees Fischer as a fellow spirit, MacGregor replies: “Very much.” For Fischer has been doing in Dresden something very akin to what his British Museum has become famous for: seeing museums as great meeting places where European masterpieces are shown on an equal, not superior, stage with art from other continents and collections are mined for multicultural riches.“I think that’s exactly what his great achievement has been” says MacGregor. The most famous part of Dresden’s museum complex is its collection of European paintings, including Raphael’s Sistine Madonna and Giorgione’s Sleeping Venus. Yet Fischer has foregrounded its ethnographic collections and put on anthropological exhibitions including Supermarket of the Dead, a survey of China’s traditional offerings to ancestors and the survival of this custom in the 21st century. It seems the British Museum has in fact appointed MacGregor’s keenest disciple as its new director – someone who has looked hard at the museum’s radical approach and sought to emulate it. He has not done this arbitrarily but by revealing the cultural pluralism of the Electors of Saxony themselves, who enthusiastically collected objects from all over the world. “You know,” points out Birgit Grimm, arts editor of the Sächsische Zeitung, “the Dresden State Art Collections are more than 450 years old. And the 14 museums belonging to the SAC not only contain objects from Europe, but from Turkey, India, China, Africa, South Seas …”So in turning the museums of Dresden to face a multicultural world Fischer has also made a point about Germany itself: that the German heritage is not exclusively European, let alone Germanic, but global. One of the great German cultural achievements was the discovery of how to replicate Chinese porcelain in early 18th-century Saxony.Yet if all this sounds very close to the British Museum’s global approach, the context is much darker. While Fischer has been opening the museum to the world, the historical wounds of Dresden, its long years of isolation after the second world war and perhaps a lack of soul-searching or even proper education about the Holocaust in the former GDR have made it a centre of Germany’s new far right. The Pegida movement – Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamisation of the West – started in Dresden in 2014 and has since spread through Germany and Europe with its message of cultural isolationism.Fischer led the way among Dresden’s horrified intelligentsia in opposing it head-on. “Hartwig Fischer called the State Art Collections ‘a house full of foreigners,’” says Grimm. “There were big posters with this slogan at the Dresden Old Masters Picture Gallery and at the castle. Fischer himself took part and spoke at demonstrations against Pegida.”Grimm is slightly sceptical about Fischer’s impact in Dresden. “Fischer’s stay in Dresden was too short,” she said. “His precursor, Martin Roth, developed the museums significantly and after 10 years he went to the V&A in London. I appreciate his work more.” German to become first foreign director of British Museum since 1827 Yet Fischer’s record before he took over the Dresden museums is impressive enough to suggest he is no flash in the pan. In 2006 he became director of the Museum Folkwang in Essen and transformed its fortunes. The museum has an exceptional history as a collection of modern art and was famous before the rise of Hitler. Fischer dug into its past and restored its reputation. He worked closely with Chipperfield, who won a competition to build a new wing. “He had a very clear idea of what the Folkwang was in history and its potential role,” remembers Chipperfield. “I was there two weeks ago and it was very touching to see it full of people.”Chipperfield has a high opinion of Fischer as a person. “Hartwig’s a very precise, very clear and rigorous person – that’s what we enjoyed about working with him.”MacGregor thinks that in addition to his “modesty” and seriousness, Fischer will bring his nation’s gifts to the British Museum. “One of his priorities is to work with other collections outside London. That’s a natural German way to think. The other great quality is the assumption that you can flourish only as part of the international community. This is the great lesson that Germany learned from 1933 to 45.”Potted profileBorn 14 December 1962 in Hamburg, West GermanyCareer Doctorate in art history 1994. Curator at Kunstmuseum Basel, 2001. Director of Museum Folkwang, Essen, 2006. Director of Dresden State Art Collections, 2011-16. Director of British Museum from April 2016.They say “Very disciplined, very professional” (David Chipperfield). “He has that disconcerting capacity to think before he speaks.” (Neil MacGregor)He says “Wir müssen Weltoffenheit wiedergewinnen” (we must regain cosmopolitanism)High point Turning Dresden’s collections into a museum of world art and cultureLow point By his own account, seeing Dresden’s reputation “darkened” by the rise of Pegida