The DogsMy most cherished photographstransformed overnight into those of dogs:big horny dogs in their ripest yearshogging the frame for themselves.Every last photographer’s trick employedso that even in the tacky studio where he couldn’t focusmy dog, like a good dog, looks ever curious and propositionalbaring his hunk of incisor at us, its nourished decay.In the more rough-cut alfresco shots with an arty contrastbetween negative and positive textures, my black dogmerges with the dark or slides into a pond in such a waythat dog and pond are seamless.In this dog world one ear of my dog is serendipitouslyfolded back forever, fixed there,and though the tawny insides appear knobby and esotericthey indicate a constant alertness to any thrown ballor that he is newly ruffled from rolling in the buzzing grass.There is a choice photo stashed in my wallet,its creased folds powdery with friction; his profileis divine against a backdrop of swirling marble blue.This day I recall for its stressful hilarity; we could not bundlehis legs onto the stool. Since then the dog has been as muteas the pictures. Perhaps somewherein his cropped-out lower throat, his bark is stuck.Sam Buchan-Watts, whose pamphlet is No 15 in the latest quartet of Faber New Poets, is a sceptical, serious, versatile writer, alert to the uses of ellipticism. He experiments with prose-poem narratives: his sometimes teasing diction and detailed imagery suggest he has taken lessons in technique from senior virtuosi like John Ashbery. The Dogs is among his most accessible poems, cast in that popular but tricky sub-genre, the photo poem. But Buchan-Watts clearly knows the risks, and he meets the challenge with some elegant foot-work. Ambiguity begins with the speaker’s first assertion. Does it mean that some original (“most cherished”) photos of people underwent a magical realist metamorphosis and “transformed overnight into those of dogs…” – or have the photos of the dogs simply become the speaker’s favourites? Are the dogs symbols and/or shadows of human selves? Do we trust this narrator’s vision? Do we trust our own?  We’re alerted early on to the absence of cute puppy snaps, to the status of these “big horny dogs in their ripest years… ” They are self-confident, residually or actively sexual, and greedy, as we’re told by the verb “hogging” in “hogging the frame”. Each probably thinks he owns his small “dog world”. The dog in stanza two is the familiar, grinning, people-pleasing Fido, a dog behaving “like a good dog” though under duress, tricked exhaustively by the photographer into submission. The speaker wants us to sympathise with the dog, who has difficulty focusing in the unnatural light of a “tacky studio”. Yet, for a moment, we wonder if it’s the photographer who has difficulty focusing on the dog. Some shifty grammar and an absence of end-of-line punctuation until the last line make things a little floaty. When the tooth that the dog unagressively displays reveals the “nourished decay” of the over-pampered, the syntax might just suggest that the humans themselves (“us”) represent the rot: “… baring his hunk of incisor at us, its nourished decay”. Buchan-Watts is an accomplished phrase-maker. He skips the dull (if useful) workshop advice about adjectives and adverbs. He knows exactly how to make those lazy parts of speech shape up and pull their weight. Some of the adjective pairings are brilliant. The combination of a not-uncommon dog descriptor, “curious”, for instance, with the less familiar, but unforgettably good “propositional” is strikingly effective. It’s a reminder of the intelligence that co-exists with and sharpens creaturely instinct. Then there’s the coupling of “knobby and esoteric” (line 15) to evoke the view inside the dog’s ear, “serendipitously / folded back forever...” The fact that “esoteric” is itself an esoteric choice seems appropriate to the mysteries of both canine and poetic hearing: “serendipitously” has a similar, aestheticising function. The “knobby” organic complexity is realised in that nice, real-life observation, the “constant alertness to any thrown ball”. Line 17 describes another keen moment of dog joy. Whatever delicious, fly-riddled mess he has rolled in, it’s still alive and “buzzing” in his ear, even as the shades of art’s prison house close around him.  The diction reinforces the staginess of the actual “alfresco” shots. That “seamless” disappearance of the dog into his black background of pond or sky is all the more sinister for its aesthetic plottedness. There’s a similar tone in stanza five. Under the carefully noticed, “distressed” surface of the print (“its creased folds powdery with friction” is a fine observation) the dog’s profile is “divine against a backdrop of swirling marble blue”. Marble as an adjective could suggest a swathe of marbled fabric, or recall the colour and patterning of a child’s marble. It also evokes marble statuary, and fits the notion of the “divine”. Of course, divine could be an intensified, hyperbolic form of beautiful. But what if the speaker is serious? It’s not reassuring.  The narrator’s empathy is often shown to be insecure: there’s a suspicion that the stiller, less dog-like the dog, the better. (Parents sometimes feel the same about their children). The yoking of “stressful” with “hilarity” is particularly revealing. This last photo is a reminder of the day when “we” struggled to force a quadruped to stand on a too-small stool. It was funny but traumatic, as the consequences reveal. Photography used to be thought capable of stealing the soul. In this case, it’s the photographic technique of cropping that has captured the dog’s essence, his bark. He has since become “as mute / as the pictures”. The image of the “cropped out lower throat” is almost horrifying: it evokes a mortal wounding. And here the stash of photographs runs out. The poem’s quatrain structure is well-matched to theme. It offers up its pictorial stanzas like proudly shown but worrying photos. Stanzas, too, are devices for framing the resistant, and taming life into almost lifelike art. Because the lines are often unexpectedly long, they give an impression of energy trying to defy constraint, of pictures whose narratives might have been cropped in a different sense. With light self-mockery and a bracing lack of sentimentality, the poem hints that the “man’s best friend” relationship, however jolly, is potentially that of slave and master. More significantly, it tells us that these particular dogs have been magicked into artefact, fixed by desires for possession, stasis, beauty. Literature, we might infer, is no less guilty than photography, and dogs not the only victims of objectification. The poem’s biggest question addresses the moral responsibilities of art, not of dog ownership. At the same time, the dogs in the poem are never less than strong, engaging presences: they may have been framed, but they hog their frames, and own their private realities. This makes me think of Marianne Moore’s famous pronouncement, that “poems are imaginary gardens with real toads in them”. Refresh the metaphor: Sam Buchan-Watts gets real dogs into his garden of ideas. Mind out, toads! In other words, this poem is as alive as it is cleverly made. Faber New Poets #15 by Sam Buchan-Watts is published by Faber & Faber, on 7 April, priced £5. Sam Buchan-Watts is on a national tour with the Faber New Poets next week. 