Walk into the Hull History Centre, fill in a request slip, and a few minutes later you can hold the original manuscript of Winifred Holtby’s great 1936 novel South Riding in your hands. In two fat, bound volumes of her curly yet legible script, here is the story of the modernising headteacher Sarah Burton, Yorkshire farmer and love interest Robert Carne, and Alderman Emma Beddows, a character based on the writer’s mother, Alice Holtby, the first female alderman on East Riding county council.Holtby called it her “farm and school novel”, and when it was published in 1936, a year after her death at 37 from kidney disease, it was a triumph. Written during the last two years of her life, when Holtby knew she was dying, and prepared for publication by her friend Vera Brittain, South Riding fused her deep feeling for the wolds countryside of her youth with her progressive politics, to create a harmonious picture of provincial life in the area surrounding Hull, disguised as Kingsport. Women have never disliked men as men have often seemed to dislike womenWinifred Holtby “I’ve got a new novel all bubbling and boiling in my head. It’s all about local government and aldermen and county councillors – a romance!” she wrote in excitement to her friend and patron Lady Rhondda, founder of the feminist newspaper Time and Tide. The politician Shirley Williams, Vera Brittain’s daughter, who remembers Holtby from her early childhood, called South Riding “the great epic of local government” – and it is. Victor Saville’s 1938 film adaptation starred Ralph Richardson, and in 2011 it was dramatised by BBC1 with a script by Andrew Davies and Anna Maxwell Martin as Burton.Holtby wrote parts of the novel in Hull’s library, and watched council meetings from the public gallery of the Guildhall. It is the outstanding novel of the local area and, as such, might have expected a plum spot – a stage version, say – in the programme for Hull 2017 UK City of Culture. But there will be no South Riding the opera, nor a ballet about Holtby’s tragically short yet fascinating life, so fans will have to content themselves with a series of talks about writers with connections to the city, including Holtby and the poet Andrew Marvell, organised by Jane Thomas of the University of Hull. This passion for imparting information to females appears to be one of the major male characteristicsWinifred Holtby Lisa Regan’s talk, in March, will focus on Holtby’s politics, looking beyond South Riding – which made a kind of happy ending to the author’s short life but also cast a long shadow on everything she had written before. Holtby was the author of five other novels, the anti-fascist play Take Back Your Freedom, two collections of short stories, the first critical study of Virginia Woolf and a history of feminism, written at a time when the women’s liberation struggle is widely seen as having been in retreat, caught between its first and second waves. She was also a prolific journalist, many of whose prescient and funny essays, articles and stories appeared in the Manchester Guardian, and it is Holtby the feminist journalist, anti-racist campaigner and short story writer that recent academic work has sought to rescue from obscurity.“Women have never disliked men as men have often seemed to dislike women,” she wrote in 1929, in a piece titled “The Man Colleague” that anticipates an insight often attributed to Germaine Greer, who asserted more than 40 years later that “women have very little idea of how much men hate them”. Holtby could be fierce, but when writing on gender she often plumped for irony. “This passion for imparting information to females appears to be one of the major male characteristics,” she quipped, adopting the lofty tone of an anthropologist, more than 70 years before such behaviour was christened “mansplaining”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Winifred Holtby Photograph: PRHoltby was never comfortable with a feminism that revelled in its own apartness, and believed the struggle for equal rights should have an ending. “I dislike everything that feminism implies,” she wrote in the Yorkshire Post in 1926, in an article headed “Feminism Divided” that attacked “New Feminists” for their emphasis on women’s point of view: “I desire an end to the whole business, the demands for equality, the suggestions for sex warfare, the very name of feminist … But while the inequality exists, while injustice is done and opportunity denied to the great majority of women, I shall have to be a feminist, and an Old Feminist at that.” In the Manchester Guardian in 1928 she called for a new personal pronoun so women wouldn't be continually labelled madam In the Manchester Guardian in 1928 she called for a “new personal pronoun” so that women would not be “continually labelled madam”, and made a prescient case with regard to women and work. The article, titled “Counting the Cost”, declared it absurd to pretend there was no price, for husbands and children, of wives and mothers going out to work: “The real question to ask is: Are the gains worthwhile?”Her answer was yes, not only for women but men, too. “The husband of a professional woman has great fun in the nursery,” she wrote. “He becomes proficient with baths, toys and prams.” If she did not satisfactorily resolve the question of childcare, saying only that “various arrangements” were needed, nor have we nearly 90 years on. The real tragedy of the Labour party since the war has been a tragedy of confusion of valuesWinifred Holtby Her journalism was not restricted to feminism. She raved about an anthology of memoirs of the unemployed that moved her, and zeroed in on the genocidal implications of an imperialist documentary short film. In 1929 she wrote in the Evening Standard that family life was “a convenience, not a sacrament”, and in 1932 delivered her verdict on the party she supported (having joined all three when a history student at Somerville College, Oxford): “The real tragedy of the Labour party since the war,” she opined in Time and Tide, “has been a tragedy of confusion of values. Its members did not know whether they wanted to make happy, complacent, middle-class citizens of us all, with a hierarchy of wealth, plus morning-coats, plus breeding, and the standards and social code of 19th-century society, with its leisured ladies, conspicuous consumption, social superiorities and all, or whether they wanted to establish an entirely new standard of human values.”As a memoirist, she was frank and modest to a fault. An article from 1934, “Mother Knows Best”, includes the admission that: “I am one of the very few women I know who went to Oxford because my mother wished it.” She described her early efforts at creating plays with her sister, the most extreme of which featured adultery, leprosy, suicide and murder. “The only form of composition which I chose for myself, insisted upon producing, and performed against odds, was that of writing plays. Is it wholly irrelevant that this is the only kind in which I have had no success whatever? I still write plays; I still send them to producers; they are still rejected.”Her literary criticism, too, is full of wonderful sentences. “Those who hold Dostoyevsky to be one of the world’s greatest novelists, a man of deep and tragic perception, a doctor of souls gifted with a sombre intensity of spiritual insight, must read with anguish these long, rambling, egotistic, and quite appallingly unpleasant letters,” she wrote of the Russian writer’s correspondence. In another review, for Good Housekeeping, of a book about ageing by an American psychiatrist, she sent herself up deliciously as “a spinster of 36 (with a hip measurement of 42 – I measured it this morning after reading an unusually apocalyptic and terrifying corset catalogue)”. She demolished Somerset Maugham’s view of marriage as an end in itself as 'flatly immoral' She demolished Somerset Maugham’s view of marriage as an end in itself as “flatly immoral”. Her careful appreciation of Woolf’s The Waves showed her to be as keen to engage with the formal experiments of modernism as the politics of the day.Ever since Brittain made the case for South Riding as a class apart from the rest of Holtby’s writing, critics have highlighted the tension in her work and life between art and politics. “I shall never quite make up my mind whether to be a reformer-sort-of-person or a writer-sort-of-person. Only I trust my judgment as a writer so much more than as a worker for movements, and I actually enjoy writing more,” she wrote to Lady Rhondda near the end of her life. Another letter poured cold water on her own literary ambitions: “I have no illusions about my work. I am primarily a useful, versatile, sensible and fairly careful artisan. I have trained myself to write quickly, punctually and readably to order over a wide range of subjects. This has nothing to do with art. It has quite a lot to do with politics. I am, primarily, a publicist.”Jane Thomas believes Holtby’s reputation has suffered in part because she is seen as an “old-fashioned realist” working against the grain of modernism. But as a novelist, as well as in her journalism and campaigning, Holtby was motivated by what Thomas calls her “social conscience”, and breaking down the divisions between art and activism enables a fuller appreciation of her contribution to society. Most of Holtby’s stories, after all, were originally published in newspapers and magazines. In the introduction to their anthology, Remember, Remember!, Marion Shaw and Paul Berry say autobiographical pieces such as “Machiavelli in the Sick‑Room” belong on the “borderline” between journalism and fiction. Polemical short stories such as “Why Herbert Killed His Mother” and “Maternal Instinct” belong there too.In an article about the great Manchester Guardian editor CP Scott, whose journalistic principles included a duty to the community, Holtby wrote that “journalism could become a civilising influence upon the democracy in which he believed”. In another piece she wrote of her growing respect for “my own profession” – journalism. Of course, not all journalism is respectable or civilising. But it was Holtby the novelist, not the journalist, who trawled through her mother’s waste-paper basket looking for titbits about council business to put in her novel.1974 South Riding TV adaptation was stellar | Letters Even as she hid herself away in seaside lodgings to complete her last novel, she remained busy with campaigns. A committed critic of fascism, Holtby connected it with sexual politics, as Woolf did, and recognised how the strict sex roles and division of labour espoused by Oswald Mosley as well as Hitler were a key aspect of their ideology. At Withernsea in the spring of 1934, she broke off from her writing to hand out anti-fascist leaflets outside a meeting of Yorkshire Blackshirts.As the world awaits the inauguration of a US president who has boasted of assaulting women, and looks ahead to a year when extreme right parties are expected to make further gains in Europe, it would seem that Holtby, once seen as an outdated relic, now offers us a timely and shining example.• Holtby’s manuscripts can be seen at the Hull History Centre. For details of Lisa Regan’s talk on Holtby go to the Hull 2017 UK City of Culture website Hull 2017 European City of Culture.• South Riding is published by Virago. To order a copy for £8.49 (RRP £9.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.