BBC Proms 20167.30pm, BBC2Katie Derham presents the first night of the Proms from the Albert Hall. Tonight’s programme introduces one of this year’s themes; the 400th anniversary of the death of Shakespeare, with Sakari Oramo conducting the BBC SO in Tchaikovsky’s Fantasy Overture to Romeo And Juliet, and a Proms debut for cellist Sol Gabetta. On BBC4 from 8.30pm, the BBC National Chorus of Wales perform Prokofiev’s Alexander Nevsky. Andrew MuellerCelebrity First Dates9pm, Channel 4Another celebrity special as four brave souls agree to dine with someone they’ve never met. Up for the first-date torture are two reality telly dolls: Gogglebox motormouth Scarlett Moffatt and Samuel Preston, of Ordinary Boys fame. In the more riveting corner is Ashleigh, who, as right-hand woman to Britain’s Got Talent winner Pudsey, needs a match who loves dogs. Hannah VerdierThe Out-Laws9pm, More4This drama takes us to a sleepy Belgian backwater where the Goethals sisters are preparing for the funeral of brother-in-law Jean-Claude. With a cash-poor insurance company due to deliver on the deceased’s policy, a desperate investigation is instigated, leading to suspicions over the secretive siblings. This whodunnit may not boast the instant appeal of The Killing, but it’s worth returning to. Mark Gibbings JonesArtsnight – A Tribute To Carla Lane11pm, BBC2Carla Lane was a quietly revolutionary figure in the 1970s and 80s TV landscape. From The Liver Birds to Butterflies, her best work was characterised by its blunt but sensitive depictions of women chafing against the limits imposed upon them. Lane died in May and tonight her career gets the appraisal it deserves from the likes of Geoffrey Palmer, Nerys Hughes and Felicity Kendal. Phil HarrisonGogglesprogs8pm, Channel 4The young TV critics, gloriously unencumbered by any great need to be polite or say the right thing, cast their eyes over yet more of today’s television. The prospect of finding out what they make of The Getaway Car, a show that sometimes comes across as if it’s made by particularly excitable eight-year-olds who have been given too much sugar, is especially promising. We’re also promised searching critiques of 24 Hours In A&E and Wallace And Gromit. Jonathan WrightBig Brother: Eviction Massacre9pm, Channel 5If you’ve been enjoying the knife-twists and heel turns of Big Brother’s Annihilation Week, here’s the bloody climax: a 90-minute live show rumoured to involve an unprecedented cull. It won’t be the first time the show has enacted such wholesale personnel changes – last year there was a four out, four in eviction special – but whatever the gimmick, will it be enough to once again widen the show’s increasingly selective appeal? Graeme VirtueOz9pm, Sky AtlanticHBO’s prison drama – which ran from 1997 to 2003 – remains among the most brutal series ever aired, at times making Game Of Thrones seem like a mere joust. The opening two episodes introduce its array of incarcerated males, including Muslims, gays, a neo-Nazi who scorches a swastika into the rear-end of his hapless white-collar criminal cellmate, and an Italian hoodlum burned to death in his cell. A young but nerveless Edie Falco also stars as a warden. David StubbsFILMEverest, (Baltasar Kormákur, 2015), 1pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereKormákur, director of the recent Icelandic TV thriller Trapped, is neck-deep in snow again with this drama based on true events. Jason Clarke plays a mountain guide leading a bunch of paying customers up Everest, where a ferocious and deadly storm awaits. Emily Watson is the base camp controller trying to stay calm while all hell is let loose above her, and it’s superbly shot by Salvatore Totino. Paul HowlettBarbara, (Christian Petzold, 2012) Friday, 12.30am, BBC2Petzold’s quietly gripping drama is set in dowdy 1980 communist-era East Germany, where paediatrician Barbara Wolff (Nina Hoss) is banished from Berlin to a remote coastal town after applying for a visa to join her lover in the west. Under the constant invasive scrutiny of the local Stasi, she nevertheless hatches a plan to escape across the border. If anything, it’s a more convincing portrait of life under that paranoid regime than the more celebrated The Lives Of Others, which posited a good Stasi officer. In reality, it seems, there were none. Paul HowlettSPORTGolf: The Open 6.30am, Sky Sports 1Day two of the major from Troon.Cycling: Tour De France 1.15pm, Eurosport 1; 2pm, ITV4A time trial for champion Chris Froome to get his teeth into.Tennis: Davis Cup 2.30pm, Eurosport 2; 2.45pm, BBC2Great Britain begin the defence of their Davis Cup title won so memorably last year. Novak Djokovic has opted out but Andy Murray should be available.