The teens spinning, jumping and posing in a small, sweaty practice room of the English National Ballet, behind the Royal Albert Hall in London, all have one thing in common.They are not professional dancers, but carers rehearsing a curtain-raiser for tonight’s production of Matthew Bourne’s Sleeping Beauty at Sadler’s Wells. With the guidance of two of Bourne’s dancers, they have created – in less than a week – their own work around the theme of sleep.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Young members of the Create company rehearsing in the Kahn Studio, Sadler’s Wells Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianWith the session in its last late-afternoon half hour, a restive mood prevails in the space where the carers – ranging from 13 to 19 – lie on the floor, practically on top of each other, simulating sleep. Some chat rather than pay attention to the instructions of Michela Meazza, principal dancer with New Adventures, Bourne’s dance company. They have been practising since 10 in the morning, so waning concentration is understandable.Asked about the low-level hubbub, Meazza says diplomatically: “They are very good at focusing when they have to. You have to go with the spirit of the group.” She adds that they will have more room once the rehearsals move to Sadler’s Wells itself.The work revolves around dreams and nightmares, with the 22 dancers split into four groups representing different professions – doctor, clothes designer, musician and photographer – that some of them aspire to. There is a final run-through as they rise slowly from sleeping positions on the floor to form four tableaux. The one representing doctors is a convincing representation of a patient on an operating table.As they sit cross-legged in a circle, Meazza asks each in turn to sum up the day in one word. “Hard-working”, “compact”, “tiring”, “explosive”, “exciting” and “repetitive” come in reply – along with a couple of mentions of “interesting”. They’re juggling duties with school and have no time for friendships, but for six days they can focus on something elseNicky Goulder, Create’s chief executive Shannan Dean, 15, who is from the Romany Gypsy community, cared for her grandfather until late 2013, when he died after suffering from cancer and other conditions including arthritis, renal failure and diabetes. “I took care of him since I was nine,” she said. “I’d take him up to hospital every Christmas, fed him, sorted out his clothes for him, took his blood pressure every day, worked out the dose and gave him his insulin injection.”Caring for her grandfather constantly for six years has left its mark. She struggles with school and currently attends a referral unit. She is also affected by her mother’s mental health problems and substance misuse. Dean took part in the curtain-raiser for Bourne’s production of Edward Scissorhands last year, but almost gave up after the first day of rehearsal this time. “Last year was so much easier, more like drama,” she says. “This time I couldn’t get the steps right. It was frustrating. But the second day was much easier.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Young members of the Create company rehearsing in the Kahn Studio, Sadler’s Wells Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianDean, who was persuaded to stay by a friend, said she found the rehearsals fun but exhausting, adding that she “can enjoy meeting new people” while having “time for myself”.Warren Cummings, 14, effectively primary carer for his mother who has has type 1 diabetes and peripheral neuropathy, also enjoyed meeting new people through the project. A keen actor and performer with his mother in a local drama group, Cummings also hopes the experience will help him get into the Brit School for Performing Arts. Understandably nervous about appearing on stage, he says: “If I just focus on the dancing and not the people watching – if I don’t look at them – I should be fine I think.”The project that brought Dean and Cummings together with the other teens from across London is a collaboration between Create, an arts charity, and Bourne, who is one of its patrons. Their second collaboration after Edward Scissorhands, the Sleeping Beauty curtain-raiser aims to give young carers a chance to explore dance and to lessen their sense of isolation.According to the Children’s Society, the number of young carers rose by a fifth to 166,363 in 2011 from 139,000 in 2001, with the largest age profile of young carers 10-14 at 41%.“It’s a fantastic way of raising the profiles of young carers,” says Nicky Goulder, Create’s chief executive. “It’s a chance for them to have time for themselves and to balance out their increasingly demanding roles as carers. They’re juggling duties with school, they have no time for friendships, but for six days they can focus on something that builds skills such as communication and teamwork. As well as increasing their confidence.”Bourne said: “Dance can provide such a sense of freedom. It’s only right that young people have every chance to access it.”Matthew Bourne’s Sleeping Beauty is at Sadler’s Wells, London, until 24 January.