The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Gino Soccio: So Lonely   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It sets the mood for a night of introspective depression. I always like to open with loon sounds.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Huren: I Warned You Not To Come Out Tonight   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Most of Huren’s new tracks are recorded with him screaming into a distortion pedal. They always bring out the good vibes.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Chris Brown: Liquor   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Undeniable. Sorry.The track I wish I’d signed to my label Adele: Hello   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Or perhaps the Star Wars title theme.The track that’s been unfairly slept on this year Rod: Anindica   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It’s two years old but I play it every time I DJ and it kills.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Bobby McFerrin: Bach Prelude BWV 999 AKA Tokyo Encore   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest See that one coming? I heard it on the radio and thought it was some crazy Arthur Russell kinda thing. Turned out it was McFerrin.The track that got me out of bed this morningA new song by Jessy Lanza. She is practising in the basement. It literally got me out of bed this morning. It was too loud.The track I wish I’d never played John Martyn: Over The Rainbow   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I worship the man. I love all of Grace And Danger, Solid Air, Bless The Weather. But sometimes people get inspired and make a strange call. This was a misstep.The best track by my favourite new artist Marie Davidson: Excès de Vitesse   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Usually I don’t like new coldwave-sounding stuff, because it seems too retro and preciously reverential, but Marie has managed to infect hers with enough modern dance energy to strike the right balance. Really good.The track that should have been a crossover hit The-Dream ft TI: That’s My Shit   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Every song by The-Dream should be bigger than it is.The track I’d play at sunset in Ibiza Daft Punk: Get Lucky   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Limmy says that it’s gonna be the song of the summer. It’s a sleeper.The track I’d play at my funeral Benny Hill theme   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest To bring some gravitas to the occasion.Junior Boys play at Huntley + Palmers Presents, Stereo, Glasgow, Friday