Hi, Mike! You’ve kind of reinvented yourself as a DJ ... I’m not really reinventing myself. No one likes a polymath, do they? It’s like when a sculptor decides they’re a painter; we don’t like it, do we? All I’ve done is take what I’ve learned about storytelling and music and applied it to running a club night (1). The way I see it, it’s like I’ve retired, and now I’m just doing what I want.Like an old person?Yeah. Like an old person. I’m basically playing golf right now. If you look at it in another way, I was telling stories, I was producing music, and I was shouting at people to have a good time. And I’m still doing that.Mike Skinner: Why I'm killing off the Streets It’s been five years since the final Streets album, Computers and Blues. What has changed? Is it all grime and streaming these days?Obviously British rap music has completely changed. I used to say: grime doesn’t pay. It does now, doesn’t it? Creatively, I think we’ve become very voyeuristic. We like watching people up close with a microscope. I think the sorts of people who become successful now probably wouldn’t have succeeded in the 90s, because the 90s were very sloganistic. It was all about saying the same thing over and over again. Now it’s much easier to create something on your own terms.Noel Gallagher said he’d re-form Oasis for £500m (2). Would you re-form the Streets for that much cash?I’m lucky enough to have been in a situation where I was able to realise that money doesn’t do it for me, really. I think if I hadn’t achieved what I’d achieved, I’d probably still be thinking that money was important. I just really like making music and taking photos, so I’m probably a bit more selfish than Noel Gallagher.How has your mental process changed since becoming a dad? Do you do embarrassing dad dancing on the dance floor?I think I’ve got got better at dancing since I’ve been doing Tonga, the club night, ’cos I’m around lots of young people who are dancing. I don’t dance, but if I was forced to, I’ve got better since I was a dad. You just have a lot less time. I’ve stopped playing computer games completely. That’s probably the biggest change. I can justify being in the studio all day. I can even justify being on Instagram or something because you can say, “Well, that’s my job.” You can’t justify playing computer games.Has Mrs Skinner made you throw away all your vinyl records to make way for Bugaboos, etc?I’ve never liked vinyl. I remember when DJing involved two massive boxes of plastic. I’ve been in Ibiza this summer and when you go out, people are like, “Bring your USBs.” If you take your USBs, you might end up DJing. You can’t invite someone over to a house party or some party in a hotel and be like, “Why don’t you bring your entire record collection? Just in case.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It used to take me months to write a song’ … Mike Skinner in London earlier this year. Photograph: Dave Benett / Getty Images for Warner MusicYou wrote and narrated your autobiography … (3)That was one of the hardest things I’ve ever done. I’m really into audio books. When the writer is reading it, I rate them so highly. It’s really hard. It took three days in a studio behind Kilburn. It was so weird, because it was at end of this very glittery period in my life and it was like being back at my first job. I’d get up at 8 o’clock, head across London to a place I didn’t really know, go to an office with people I didn’t really know, get a cup of tea, and read this book for eight hours. Have you ever recorded yourself reading a book without making a mistake for eight hours? It’s not easy.Maybe you should have got Stephen Fry to read it?If I write another one, I’m going to have to decide whether I’m gonna do it. I think I’m gonna do it. I just have to make sure it isn’t that long.I’d like to hear you read out Stephen Fry’s autobiography …Ha. He’d have to pay me a lot of money.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest NME often cites you as one of the greatest lyricists of all time, up with Kurt Cobain, Bob Dylan and Alex Turner. Is your inner monologue as poetic as your lyrics?No. I work with a lot of rappers now and I think there is a culture, a bravado thing, that you should be able to turn up to a studio, do a 16, then leave. It used to take me months to write a song. I would constantly change little bits. Who’s the guy who does the really complicated stuff? He used to do smack? He’s a really esteemed writer …Will Self. From Shooting Stars! (4)Ha. Yeah. He uses a lot of words that aren’t in my, let’s say, active vocabulary. And that’s his vibe. It’s stimulating seeing all these words that you didn’t know existed. I used to spend an awful lot of time trying to say everything in almost single-syllable words. That was all I was doing. It doesn’t mean that I wasn’t spending a lot of time on them. I mean, everything is a metaphor. Thom Yorke, Fake Plastic Trees. I don’t even know what he’s talking about most of the time.Isn’t he just disappointed that Mrs Yorke has come home with a plastic Christmas tree because he wanted a real one, even though it’s clearly more eco-friendly to get a plastic one (5)?It’s purely a non-ecological protest song? It’s purely about that, is it?Yeah. Mrs Yorke is tired of picking pine needles out of her socks.Ha. Who am I to say that Thom Yorke isn’t the most direct, meat-and-potatoes lyricist? Even more so than me.Footnotes(1) See mikeskinner-ltd.co.uk/me for details of when Mike’s next DJing near you.(2) “If somebody puts that on the table, I’ll pack my bags in the morning and say, ‘How many gigs do you want?,’ the Chief said in 2015.(3) 2012’s The Story of the Streets.(4) Uvavu!(5) It’s actually more eco-friendly to buy a real Christmas tree because the majority of fake Christmas trees are imported from China, and made of non-biodegradable plastics. Get your facts right, Radiohead! Tsk.