The recipeRinse 200g of spinach, removing any tough stems. While the leaves are still wet, cook them for a minute or two in a pan with a tight lid, so they soften in their own steam. If you are worried about them sticking add a tablespoon or two of water.As soon as the spinach has wilted, plunge it into a bowl of iced water to stop it cooking, squeeze it dry with your hands, then roughly chop it. Bring a pan of water to the boil then add 125g of sugar snap peas, let them cook for 2 minutes then remove and drain them.Bring a large pan of water to the boil, salt it, then cook 200g of bucatini or other thin pasta for about 9 minutes till just tender, and drain.Cut a large courgette into thick slices and then into quarters. Melt 30g of butter in a shallow pan then add 2 tbsp of olive oil. Fry the courgette for 3 or 4 minutes until it starts to colour, then add the spinach leaves and the cooked sugar snaps. Roughly chop a small bunch of parsley and add it to the vegetables.Pour 25ml of double cream into the vegetables and combine it gently. Let it simmer for a minute then pour it over the drained pasta and toss together gently. Garnish with lemon and pass round a bowl of grated parmesan.The trickThe spinach needs to be cooked as briefly as possible, quickly cooled to retain its bright colour, then have all its water squeezed out. I like to steam the leaves in an enclosed pan while they are still damp with their rinsing water. If you are worried the leaves will stick, add a few spoonfuls of water to the pan. A bowl of water and ice cubes is a useful thing in which to plunge the steamed leaves, helping to retain their bright colour before wringing them almost, but not completely dry.The twistUse a narrow ribbon pasta such a fettuccine instead of the bucatini. There is only enough cream in the recipe to coat the pasta, so if you decide to use a shape that will hold more sauce – such as orecchiette or conchiglie – then use a little more cream. The addition of tomatoes, quartered or roughly chopped, is tempting.Email Nigel at nigel.slater@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @NigelSlater