The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Death Grips: Guillotine   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I usually open with this as it’s such an aggressive sound. It grabs your attention, and it’s so off-key-sounding that people don’t know what to expect afterwards.The track that got me out of bed this morning Steve Spacek: Melin DreamsSomething I was working on late last night on GarageBand on my phone. It’s a hypnotic track for the dancefloor.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Moondog: Viking 1    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This is an amazing piece played on a vibraphone. It’s a great way to send the crowd off.The track that should have been a crossover hit Fatima: La Neta    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This came out about two years ago from my peeps over at Eglo. It’s by Swedish-UK soul singer Fatima; produced by Flako, and is the perfect mix of soul and modern day electronics.The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding Tiger: When (Steve Spacek remix)   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest A wicked dancehall tune with a truly infectious beat, along with some comical lyrics that all rhyme with “when”. I reckon auntie would be skanking to this one!The best track by my favourite new artist Packer & Rhodes ft Natalie Slade: Where We GoNatalie is a Sydney-based singer-songwriter who I’m working with, and this is a collab between her and myself. Look out for it some time this year, maybe on my new label SPA.The ideal festival track Mark Pritchard: Soundboy Fuck Off  I love this track! Whenever I hear it, it gives me this vibe. The closest thing I can relate it to is a feeling people might get when they want to mosh, if that makes any sense.The track I’d play at sunset in Ibiza Bobby Konders: The Poem   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Anyone who remembers raving back in the day would and should remember this one… I’m not even gonna describe it! It’s best to have a listen, it speaks for itself.Steve Spacek plays Corsica Studios, SE17, Sunday 29 May; Soup Kitchen, Manchester, Thursday 2 June