Elvis Presley’s 1968 NBC TV show Elvis is better known by its unofficial title: the Comeback Special, bestowed because it rehabilitated the singer’s image after almost a decade in which he had been making cheesy movies to the exclusion of all live performance. The King was back, dressed top-to-toe in black leather, exuding a seductiveness and power that repositioned him as a legitimate musical force. He performed four one-hour live sets in the round in front of a studio audience, shooting the breeze with his bandmates between numbers; this was edited and cut together with prerecorded segments, then the whole package went out as an hour-long TV spectacular. His misguided Hollywood excursion was almost at an end, while his bloated, diamond-encrusted, white-jumpsuit-wearing Vegas incarnation was still some years off. This was pure Elvis. It’s precisely that comforting idea of authenticity that the performance artist Greg Wohead sets out to destabilise in his playful and haunting new show Comeback Special. The conceit is that we are watching a restaging of that Elvis programme. The set is exactly the same – a square stage with the audience seated on all four sides. But from the moment Wohead steps on to it and grabs a microphone that dangles from the ceiling, boxing MC-style, we know something is awry. He tells us that he is dressed entirely in black, though this is patently not the case; he asks us to marvel at his hip-swivelling abilities, then stands stock still.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘It really helped to think of myself as a channel, a medium’ … Greg Wohead. Photograph: Richard Eaton This device serves notice that Wohead – a skinny, London-based Texan with a wedge of long hair flopping over the close-cropped sides of his head – will not be imitating Elvis, and that his own Comeback Special will interrogate rather than duplicate the original. Though there is singing and dancing on stage before the evening is over, the general mood is closer to a crime scene reconstruction or a seance than a rock’n’roll concert.  “Funnily enough, I actually gave some of my collaborators the task of setting up a seance at one point,” says Wohead. “That’s where a lot of the ideas came together. We broke down the structure of it and it really helped to think of myself as a channel, a medium.” He claims to have no particular fondness for Elvis, but his interest was piqued after attending an Elvis festival in Porthcawl, south Wales. “There were the 1970s Elvises, or Elvii, in their tacky wigs and glasses, and the cool 50s ones. There was a live band too, and I saw that for the relationship to work, there had to be this imaginative leap on both sides, from the performer and the audience. That made me think about identity as a mutual transaction: I present myself as something, you see me as something, and somewhere in between is what we call identity.”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Presley performs Trying to Get to You on the ’68 Comeback Special The 1968 Elvis, whom a whole section of tribute artists at the Elvis festival had devoted themselves to imitating, brought additional issues of authenticity. “Part of the power of the Comeback Special was that audiences felt they were seeing the real Elvis at last. But in lots of ways, the show is as fake and reconstructed as anything else. Like every filmed document, it’s slippery. There’s editing and camera angles, and the audience members aren’t even the same all the way through! It’s completely mediated and so it seemed more honest to be faithful to the unreliability of the whole thing.” To this end, Wohead incorporates his audience in the forensic, partial re-enactment of the show. Just as he serves as a neutral conduit for Elvis’s words and actions without attempting to mimic him, so we are seduced incrementally into playing the part of the audience from the Comeback Special. To explain how Wohead does this would be to rob the experience of some of its mystery. Suffice to say that his true subject is the dynamic between performer and onlooker, as might be expected from a performer who has also devised shows for one audience member at a time, such as The Back Seat of My Car (And Other Safe Places) – which takes place, as the title suggests, in the back seat of Wohead’s car.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The Comeback Special is just as fake and reconstructed as anything else’ … Wohead. Photograph: Richard Eaton “If you’re going to work in live performance, you can’t ignore the audience-performer relationship because that’s what it’s all about. If you’re not going to acknowledge or use it in some way, maybe you should go make a film.” His previous show, The Ted Bundy Project, used another US icon to explore the subject of morbid fascination; it wasn’t about Bundy so much as the audience’s responses to him. “Some of people said: ‘I liked it, but I wish I’d learned more about Ted Bundy.’ That’s not what it was. It was about exactly those sorts of people who wanted to know more about him!”  The same is true of the new show. “It’s pointed toward the image of Elvis but he’s really only the catalyst for showing what our relationship to him says about us. For me, the show is not about Elvis at all.” Possibly the sole point of overlap between them is that Wohead recently turned 33, the same age Elvis was when he made the Comeback Special. But then 33 is a highly symbolic age: after all, it has been suggested that Christ was 33 when he died – and he was arguably the king of the comebacks. “Yeah, that one was pretty dramatic,” Wohead chuckles. Comeback Special is at South Street, Reading, on 10 May; Bristol Old Vic Studio on 12-13 May; and the Brighton festival on 15 May. 