Controversy over the cover of an Australian art magazine has resurrected a debate of the digital age: when, if ever, are nipples acceptable?The latest issue of Vault, a quarterly art periodical, was distributed last week with round yellow stickers covering the nipples of a female nude in a painting on its cover.Its editor, Neha Kale, told Guardian Australia the stickers were added at the request of its distributor, which feared its stockists would refuse to display the magazine.Artist of the week 85: Lisa Yuskavage Titled Brood, the painting is of a nude, pregnant woman with fruit. It is by Lisa Yuskavage, a prominent artist in New York known for her depictions of hyper-sexualised pin-up girls. A book of Yuskavage’s work has been published with the same image on the cover.Kale said the distributors of the magazine, Gordon and Gotch, told her the woman’s nipples had to be covered in order for the magazine to be stocked in newsagents.The issue for the distributor was not of classification but of context, Kale said. “They were worried that newsagents that they work with would not want to stock the magazine.”About 7,000 copies are printed of each issue of Vault, with about half going to newsagents. Art galleries and specialty shops, which also stock the magazine, did not pose a problem.Kale said she felt unable to refuse the distributors’ request because of distribution and advertising deadlines. “We felt we didn’t have a choice.”How to beat Instagram and Facebook's female nipple ban? Use male nipples instead Gordon and Gotch was unavailable for comment to Guardian Australia on Tuesday afternoon but told the ABC’s Books and Arts program it was following regulations.Kale said the distributor’s decision revealed there were still contexts in which nipples are not acceptable, even in the world of art.“There’s a lot of really iconic nude artwork out there,” she said. “It’s kind of bizarre.”She said the painting, Brood, had been chosen for the cover because it was provocative.“It makes you look twice but I don’t think it’s an especially salacious image,” she said. “I really wanted to use a painting by a female painter of a woman because so few exist of them, as well.”Kale wrote about Yuskavage’s work for the issue, describing the artist’s female subjects as having a “bombshell physicality [that] cloaks the tawdry thrill of finding an old Penthouse ... in the quasi-spiritual glow of a Renaissance fresco”.She said she had not yet informed the artist’s representatives of the censorship of her work.“I don’t think she’d be surprised,” she said. “She does seem to get a lot of flak, which is really strange.”Kale suggested that depictions of women’s bodies were context-specific, pointing to Facebook and Instagram’s often haphazard policing of photographs of nipples on their platforms.“It’s this whole thing with femininity, it’s OK [only] if an image is shown in a specific way. ... You can walk into any gallery and see nudes any time you want.”This article was amended on 9 August 2016. Lisa Yuskavage’s art work was previously mis-titled as Bloom.