Just over a year ago, Ed Harcourt was at an impasse. He had been nominated for the Mercury prize in 2001 for his debut, Here Be Monsters, but the five albums that followed had all been commercial failures. He was trying to make a seventh, but finding it impossible to transfer the “inner hurricane” in his head into the studio. After touring in Marianne Faithfull’s band – and eating and drinking too much – he looked in the mirror and saw Billy Bunter looking back at him.So at the age of 37, he walked into a gym – a place in London where Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield had both once trained – and took up boxing.“It’s changed my life,” he says now, cradling a sparkling water before a gig at Rough Trade East. “It’s so extreme that it breaks a barrier: not just physically, but psychologically. I’d box in the morning and then go into the studio, and all the barriers collapsed. Boxing gave me the confidence and faith in myself. I’m coming out with fists flying.”He thinks of the resulting, rave-reviewed album, Furnaces, in which orchestrated pop thrashes it out with fierce industrial noise, as “a body shot, hitting you in the gut”. It’s certainly apocalyptic stuff (although not short on tunes), that examines the darker aspects of masculinity (including his own) and the “menace posed by men” towards a planet reeling from successive jabs: the financial crash, climate change, Donald Trump.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I don’t want to be the madman on the soapbox in the corner of Hyde Park, but I really am concerned about what the future holds for my children and their generation,” he says. “There’s an anger there, because we’re being lied to by this government, who promised ‘the greenest government ever’ – and look what happened.“Also, I worry that we’re being densensitised by the onslaught of atrocities and information,” he continues and leans forward, his tattooed arms creeping out from his sleeves. “There’s a generation rising up that’s extremely narcissistic with a lack of empathy. The Republican contender is the ultimate example of that. It can’t all be sunshine and lollipops, but in Britain and America I feel like there’s been a silent, dormant, slightly racist majority, and someone has come along and awakened the kraken.”Harcourt is a vocal character and engaging company, veering between intense, irked blasts (David Cameron is a “fucking lying toad”) and endearing self-deprecation (“My tattoos are awful, but I’m impulsive”). He attributes his overflowing charm to his childhood, when (as the son of a military attaché) he moved not just schools but countries often, forcing him to “befriend anybody: the nerds or the heartthrobs, sporty types and misfits”.When his mother suggested he channel his nervous energy and tendency to hit things into something creative, he started playing piano, before an obsession with the Rollins Band track Low Self Opinion led him to teach himself to play bass and drums by jamming along with hard rock. In his later teens, though, he was a more “melancholic fellow, listening to Nick Drake, Harry Nilsson”. He laughs wearily. “I was a doomed romantic.”Ed Harcourt: Furnaces review – gently apocalyptic pop Signing to a major label at 16 with his school band prepped him for the “darkness of the music industry” before he appalled his parents by turning down a university place to become a chef. That curious interlude means he can still share a tasty recipe for pasta, but gave him time to write the songs that landed him that Mercury nomination, for which he was unprepared.“Between 2004 and my daughter’s birth I went a bit crazy really, but if you’re making records and they keep doing not as well as you think they should, you think, ‘Fuck it. I’m just going to have a good time.’ I went through that stupid, selfish, spoilt period and came out better on the other side.”Nothing But a Bad Trip, from Furnaces, documents this period, particularly a psychotic episode when Harcourt became convinced a stranger in a pub was the child catcher from Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. “I couldn’t sleep or stop talking for two days,” Harcourt says. “I kept saying, ‘Please don’t let him get me…’ I mean, I enjoyed losing myself. Ingest everything as much as possible and see where it takes me, but I’ve got that out of my system since having kids.”In 2007 he announced his retirement, which he now admits was a drama queen moment. “I’m done! I’m retiring!” he roars, sounding like Richard Burton in his pomp. “I’d done seven years with EMI, which sounds like a prison sentence, but wasn’t. I just felt burnt out, and wanted to try something else.”He wrote songs for other people (such as Faithfull and Paloma Faith) and played with Beck and Patti Smith, which was “terrifying, because I’m a huge fan”, but which showed him he needed him to push himself. “Before, I’d have rhymed ‘pocket’ with ‘rocket’ and settled for it. I don’t like a lot of my stuff. It’s too pretty. Weak.”Harcourt describes the 2010 album Lustre, his first attempt at a post-fatherhood album, as ‘‘a bit ‘Everything is great! You are the sunshine of my life and I’m in love with this little person!’ Albeit with some darker soupçons. As usual, it was a huge commercial failure, but because I’d put it out myself, losing so much money on it was a catastrophe that I’ve been paying for ever since.” The cash from writing a song for a Burberry advert starring Romeo Beckham paid for a new suit, but soon ran out. As reality and responsibility kicked in, providing for a family in London was becoming difficult. “I felt displeased and angry with myself, and angry at the world.”Harcourt approached Nine Inch Nails/U2 producer Flood, insisting, “You are the only person who can make this record”, although he admits he didn’t expect Furnaces to prove such a bruising experience.“He’d go, ‘Those two songs are really good. The other eight? No.’ He was brutal and he’d admit that. But he needed to throw everything at me and wait for me to throw it back.”Harcourt failed to convince Flood to join him boxing (“He’d text and say, ‘I’m nearly ready!’”) but returned the punches musically over three years. Furnaces’ title track came about after Harcourt read about the damage caused by fracking; he used it to pour out his fury at Cameron. Other songs are more self-critical. He praises his favourite writers – Ernest Hemingway, Charles Bukowski – for not letting themselves off the hook. “They exposed the horror within. We’re all part of it. We’re the oil in the apocalyptic machine.”Seven albums in, Harcourt sees Furnaces as a new beginning, almost a debut. As he puts it, with a final flourish: “The muzzle is off and the dog is out of the gate.”• Furnaces is out now on Polydor. Ed Harcourt plays at the Village Underground on London on 21 September. 