St Thomas’s church stands at one end of Clapton Terrace, an impressive row of 19th-century town houses in Stamford Hill, east London. The terrace is set back from the road and overlooks a narrow common at the brow of the hill that slopes towards a landscaped park and the river Lea. Surrounded by Dalston, Hackney and Stoke Newington, the area has seen rapid gentrification in recent years: an influx of middle-class Londoners and Europe’s largest community of ultra-orthodox Jews. “It’s a mixed community,” says the vicar of St Thomas’s, William Taylor, whose congregation is predominantly West African and Caribbean. “The sourdough loaf hasn’t quite reached us yet.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Perers stripped the walls in the sitting room, leaving 1960s wallpaper at the top. The floor is Farrow & Ball’sCalamine. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianTaylor has been a vicar here for six years. He lives in the adjoining Georgian vicarage with his wife, Kristin Perers and their Irish terrier, Guv’nor. Born in Chicago and brought up in Florida, Perers worked as a fashion designer before moving first into interior styling and later, photography. The couple – who met at a mutual friend’s house over Sunday lunch and married five years ago – have three grown-up children between them.The vicarage is owned by the diocese of London, which means the couple can’t undertake any full-scale refurbishments. “We are the custodians, taking care of it for now,” says Perers. A door in their calamine-pink hallway leads directly into the church vestry which, as Taylor points out, is one of the reasons the five-storey town house has not been sold. When the couple moved in, the kitchen was in the basement and the ground floor was a sprawling study. The diocese gave them the funds for a rudimentary refurbishment so they made the lower ground a utility room and snug, and moved the dining room and interconnecting kitchen up to the ground floor. On the first floor is a serene sitting room and two studio/offices. The bathroom and master bedroom are on the second floor, and Taylor’s “man cave” is up top.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kristin Perers. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the GuardianGradually, through the use of colour, fabrics “and plenty of elbow grease”, Perers has made the vicarage home. When the kitchen was moved upstairs, a basic fitted unit was installed along one wall with open shelving above. Perers adapted and improved the new unit by removing the doors and replacing the plastic work surface with a piece of plywood found in the crypt. Raw edged artists’ linen hangs beneath the worksurface, hiding the white goods. Pops of colour come from the brightly painted kitchen chairs. A netted window overlooks the paved vicarage garden, which is bordered by young pear trees trained against the wall. (Taylor turns the fruit into chutney each autumn.)The institutional white gloss woodwork has been toned down; unsightly reinforced glass doors have been masked by fabrics collected by Perers during her travels as a stylist, and panels of antique lace have been casually tacked into window frames – an improvement on net curtains. “I’m a great lover of textiles,” she says. Above the door leading to the hallway is a handmade print in pink capitals that reads: “God loves a trier”.Throughout, fitted carpets have been removed and the bare boards painted in shades of black, pale pink, grey and turquoise.In the main living room (which doubles as Perers’ photography studio) a length of copper piping has been fixed to the wall at picture-rail height. Perers hangs her own handpainted backdrops from the rail, creating a shifting feature. “My time as a set builder has taught me that I can just rig things up and move things around,” says Perers. In the bathroom, a similar set-up of piping and mismatched fabric disguises what Perers calls a “standard-issue vicarage bathroom” (a basic, boxed-in bath, freestanding shower cubicle and nondescript white tiles). The turquoise geometric pattern on the floor, painted by Perers using Arsenic, was inspired by her Floridian roots: “It lifts me every time I’m in here.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The sink splashback was salavaged from the street. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the Guardian“Often people come to our home and say how calm it is,” says Perers. There is definitely a stillness to the two interconnecting ground-floor rooms. In the dining room, on a stretch of shaker pegs, hangs a changing display of possessions: traditional baskets from the east coast of America, Floridian hats and an antique work of religious calligraphy. “I’ve always had some form of shaker peg in my house,” says Perers. “If you’re renting, they’re a great solution because you can change what you display without ruining the walls.” Taylor’s accordion occupies the far corner.Both rooms are communal in the truest sense of the word. “There’s an aspect of a vicarage that is recognised as being public property,” Taylor says. (Indeed, the couple had “The Vicarage” freshly embossed in gold signage on their front door last year.) “It’s our home,” he adds, “but all members of the community are welcome here.” The congregation gathers in the dining room for hot toddies after midnight mass; Taylor hosts bible studies around the vintage Ercol table (a wedding gift); and the Clapton Terrace AGM is held here, as are meetings involving the local Jewish community and others.“As a vicar, that’s the sort of thing I can do,” Taylor says, “and the house has the space for it.” The communality of their home, and the effort that has gone into the interior, is a very important part of their ministry, explains Perers. “It’s all part of showing our faith.”