In Lancashire, an architecturally unique, internationally important steam-powered weaving mill is due to close in March. In Durham, a building containing 250 years of local military history will shut its doors for good and have most of its collection placed in storage. In Derby, Torbay and Leicestershire and Kirklees, west Yorkshire, similar stories are unfolding – and they could be the tip of the iceberg, a newly published report by the Museums Association (MA) warns.According to the association’s survey of cuts in 2015, nearly one in five regional museums has closed a part or branch of their museum to the public in the last year, or plans such a closure in the year to come. One in 10, meanwhile, expect to introduce entrance charges to cover reductions in local authority funding. A similar number are considering following the example of Northampton borough council, which controversially sold a 4,000-year-old statue of Sekhemka at auction in 2014 for £16m. The money was used to fund a £14m extension to Northampton museum and art gallery.Top 10 regional museums in England The creeping trend of museum closures, reduced hours and charges is alarming the MA. “It is a fairly bleak picture,” said policy officer Alistair Brown. “Museums are effectively a soft target as they are non-statutory service. When times get tough, lots of local authorities will tell you they highly value museums, but it will still be one of things targeted for cuts when push comes to shove.”The most acute situation is in Lancashire, where councillors have voted to reduce spending on museums from £1.3m to less than £100,000. Unless a last-minute rescue package can be agreed, five museums will close on 31 March, including two documenting the county’s rich textile history: Queen Street Mill in Burnley, the last surviving 19th-century steam-powered weaving mill, and Helmshore Mills Textile Museum. Both are designated collections of national importance, but that status offers no legal protection from being shut down.The other museums facing closure are the Museum of Lancashire in Preston, Fleetwood Museum, and Judges’ Lodging Museum in Lancaster. Another five, including Lancaster City Museum and Lancaster Castle, have been told they must survive without council funding.John Orna-Ornstein, director of museums for Arts Council England, hinted at a possible reprieve for the textiles museums. Discussions with the council and the Heritage Lottery Fund are continuing. All parties were having “a proper, adult and sensible conversation”, he said. The county council were not the “bad guys”, but “what they are trying to do is balance the books at a time when its funding from central government has decreased significantly and will continue to”, he said.Lancashire’s troubles are not unique. In Derby there are fears that the city’s three museums – Silk Mill, Derby Museum and Art Gallery and Pickford’s House – may be forced to close if Derby council withdraws all funding to the trust that runs them by 2017-18.There are similar stories in Kirklees, which runs organisations including Huddersfield Art Gallery and Dewsbury Museum, and Torbay, where there are fears for the future of Brixham Museum.In Leicestershire, the council is planning to cut its museum budget by £1.8m to £3.9m in 2018/19, raising the prospect of closures and charging. Snibston Discovery Museum, near Coalville, closed its doors last summer after a long battle.In Durham, the Durham Light Infantry Museum will this year close, and most of the collection will be moved to storage facilities. Some parts will go on display elsewhere. The Museums Association survey said 44 museums had closed across the UK since 2010 and that further closures were inevitable. It also showed striking regional differences, with museums in northern England, Northern Ireland and Wales reporting larger year-on-year decreases than those in the Midlands, southern England and Scotland.When Northampton council sold the Sekhemka statue, it lost its Arts Council accreditation and was disbarred from the MA, which some observers believed would dissuaded other councils from following suit. But the survey shows that 11% of museums are now considering financially motivated disposal.“One of the silver linings [of Northampton] is that there have been very few attempts to sell off the family silver in the past couple of years,” said Brown. “But when it becomes a financial necessity, there will always be that temptation to sell.”The survey also reveals that 8% of museums introduced charging in the past year, while 12% said they would in the coming year. Many museums also report a worrying loss of skills and expertise: 24% have cut their full-time staff, and 45% increased the number of unpaid staff, compared with 32% the previous year.John Orna-Ornstein, director of museums at Arts Council England, said the overall picture was a challenging one, but perhaps not as bleak as it might appear. “It is not tough times for everybody. Lots of museums are doing well and there is a good picture in terms of visitor numbers … but there are certainly enormous challenges.”The situation is more acute in the north, he said, because it is where the Victorians built the grandest civic museums created by industrial wealth to develop the identity and prosperity of cities and large towns.Sharon Heal, director of the MA, said many museums had worked “incredibly hard in difficult circumstances” to increase their earned income. “Museums that serve local communities deliver real public benefit and there is a danger [for] whole areas of the country.”