Hometown: Toronto.The lineup: Jasmyn Burke (vocals), Morgan Waters (guitar), Zach Bines (bass), Spencer Cole (drums). The background: Weaves are a Canadian indie band whose sound lands somewhere between Pixies and Pavement. They have the fierce power of the former and the quirky singularity of the latter. Arch and angular, their music has a crazed energy – “they bend pop tropes as if they’re made of Silly Putty”, according to Rolling Stone – that makes them seem almost cartoonish. Critics used to rave about Black Francis’s lupine howls; by comparison Weaves are cubs, yapping at the heels of their forebears. Their indie guitar music twists and turns – “weaves” is about right – with mischievous intent. It’s effervescent with an edge, like early-90s US alt rock dipped in sugar: bubblegrunge, or something. Nirvana playing Looney Tunes? It turns out that one of Weaves – Waters, he of the bright, wobbly guitar that sounds in places like a zither – is a former children’s TV presenter and star of web series The Amazing Gayl Pile, about “one man’s misguided quest to conquer the world of home shopping”. Presumably, demented glee is in his DNA. The other key member is Burke, by all accounts a formidable frontwoman, who cites Siouxsie and Aaliyah as her twin vocal heroes. Co-songwriter with Waters, their tunes start out as Voice Memos on her iPhone – apparently, she has 3,000 files. The pair then convene in Waters’s bedroom studio in Toronto’s Chinatown to “pump them full of insanity,” as he puts it, before factoring in the contributions of bassist Bines and drummer Cole. The results have been driving audiences wild – from Glastonbury to CMJ – and will be available for your home listening pleasure from June in the form of their debut full-length album. Mixed and mastered by gentleman who have variously worked with Death Cab for Cutie and Death Grips, At the Drive-In and Sky Ferreira, the self-titled record is chock-full of jerkily persuasive hooks and bursts of manic melody. Tick is a song about biological clocks set to a guitar sound resembling a buzzing insect. Like most everything Weaves do, it sounds itchy and scratchy. Birds & Bees is ADHD grunge: restless, curious, with a quiet-loud dynamic, like early-70s Saturday morning TV show The Banana Splits smeared with Pearl Jam. And so it goes on. It’s simultaneously silly and serious, a bit like life. “I remember turning 15 and thinking life’s not right / I’m living in a shithole not holding no one’s hands,” as Burke sings on Shithole. Human has a zigzag riff that is almost worthy of Captain Beefheart, while Sentence puts a niggling guitar line over a syncopated, finger-clicking groove: think disco played by stoned indie kids who can barely be bothered to get out of bed. In a good way. One More is their crowd-pleaser, their Debaser, their festival appointment to mosh, the one that goes: “Watch out – I’m talking to you!” You’d better listen, too. “Something tells me under the boardwalk there’ll be more casualties,” warns Burke. There is mirth here, and menace. “We’re humble, soft-spoken people, Jasmyn and I, so it’s fun to make this music that’s over the top – catchy but, like, twisted,” Waters told Rolling Stone. “It’s all guitar-driven pop music, which has been done a million times. We’re just trying to figure out a way to do something differently.” We think they might be on to something already.The buzz: “The construction is cerebral, but the songs come across as uproarious” – New York Times. The truth: This is just the beginning of what they want to say. Most likely to: Cause a wave of mutilation. Least likely to: Gouge away. What to buy: Weaves is released on 17 June by Memphis Industries.File next to: Pixies, Pavement, Pepe Deluxe, tUnE-yArDs.Links: weaves.bandcamp.com/ Ones to watch: Richie Quake, Attica Riots, Orchestra of Spheres, Fickle Friends, Bossy Love. 