Easter plans? We’re camping again, just desperate to breathe some fresh air, get away from everything. Well, I say camping, they supply the tents, well, not exactly a tent, if you can picture a large yurt. We did that once, no shower or loo, can you believe, the kids were horrified, though they adore the country, playing in the woods, building dens, surrounded by nature. Then we tried an ecopod, but we all got claustrophobia, so now we always go to Puddleduck Pastures – have you tried them? Amazing, it’s this totally off-grid, completely wild, traditional farm experience where everyone gets their own private paddock with an organic veg patch, hot tub, chicken coop, flock of sheep and a personal cow, so the kids can learn milking. Most places only have rabbits and, get this, they expect you to keep the stove going? On holiday? Almost ruined it for me, but Puddleduck do this premier canvas safari lodge with outside decking, four rooms, two en suites, proper sofa, scented candles, stove service. It’s a bit draughty, but that’s what camping’s all about, isn’t it, roughing it?Modern tribes: the foodie You say glamping, but there’s nothing glamorous about the mud and the farm smells and the dark, and being kept awake by bloody owls all night. I spoke to them about the owls: nothing they can do, apparently, even though it’s not cheap, so we’re trying this new place with views over ancient downland and parking next to the actual tent.Have you ever tried pushing a wheelbarrow across a field? That’s why we’re never doing another treehouse glamp. They look wonderful, great phone signal, but every single bag has to go up a ladder and no one tells you the treehouse moves in the slightest bit of wind. And don’t get me started on traditional Gypsy caravans, no wonder they upgraded to mobile homes. Actually, we’d go back to hotels, except there’s something so primal about sleeping under canvas miles from anywhere, so long as you’ve paid for a wet room. But a word of advice: never camp anywhere Ocado won’t deliver.