Eric Monkman – answering fast and fiercely to win a semi-final last night for Wolfson, Cambridge – has become the latest University Challenge contestant to go viral. Sharers were drawn to the Canadian economics student’s furrowed concentration-face from which he machine-guns answers at a pitch suggesting a fear that Jeremy Paxman, at 66, may be struggling to hear the answers. Monkman joins previous fabled Cambridge reply-machines including Ralph Morley of Trinity, who correctly answered a question before Paxo had asked it; Ted Loveday of Caius, who won 10 opening 10-pointers in a single round; and Oscar Powell of Peterhouse, who, while trying to identify the singers on the hit song Je T’aime, performed a curious charade of a someone trying to remove gobbets of something from between his teeth and hide them in his ear or hair. Plus, there was Gail Trimble of Corpus Christi, Oxford, who got 15 starters for 10 in one show.  Such success in the meme charts shows an impressive adaptability to modern culture for a show that is now 55, although its necessarily pedantic audience would want to point out that it has only been on screen for 48 of those years, due to an interregnum between the ITV and BBC2 incarnations.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Oscar Powell on University Challenge. Photograph: BBC Its digital afterlife is encouraged by a structure in which the basic unit of action is seconds in length: encompassing question, conferring, answer, and marking. This provides clips of a perfect size for Twitter and YouTube, and also usefully fits the rhythms of Gogglebox, where quick impact can be had from the sofa-critics attempting to answer a question or being amazed that a contestant has. The result is that whereas footage of University Challenge contestants was once only shared when contestants (such as Clive James, Stephen Fry and John Simpson) became famous later, it is now possible to become a celebrity for being on the show. When University Challenge has featured on Gogglebox, there can be a sense of town-and-gown tension between the viewer-reviewers and the students on screen. And, although the media fame of Morley, Trimble, Loveday, Powell and now Monkman often involves praise of their extreme braininess, it is sometimes hard to escape an imputation of abnormality or nerdiness; that they may know a lot but a lot of people wouldn’t want to know them. Viral team-members often seem to be noticed for some eccentricity of delivery, expression or dress. But the line between picking out and picking on is narrow, and judging someone based on how they answer under intense pressure on a TV show recorded against the clock is as sensible as choosing friends on the basis of their passport photos.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Another worry is that seven of the eight contestants last night were men, which is not a very exceptional ratio on University Challenge, even 17 years into the 21st century. As, in my experience and observation, female students tend to be cleverer than males, it must be feared that women students are less keen to compete.  One possible reason is that, if men on the show risk being nerd-shamed online, women are in jeopardy of being perv-praised. They can become victims of the use of the show as a sort of Intellectual Tinder, in which male viewers are sweeping the screen for a beauty-and-brains combination. The quiz has already inspired one film – Starter for Ten, adapted by David Nicholls from his own novel – and, as Monkman’s main rival last night was the strikingly named Bobby Seagull of Emmanuel, Cambridge, there’s potential for a Monkman v Seagull sequel. Although that movie might, like the series itself, be short of female roles.