Born in Surrey, Angus Deayton, 60, studied at Oxford University, where he co-created the sketch show Radio Active, which was then adapted for BBC Radio 4. He went on to present Have I Got News For You from 1990 until he was sacked in 2002; his other TV work includes One Foot In The Grave and Benidorm. This month, the Radio Active cast reunite to perform at the Edinburgh festival. He is single, has a son and lives in London.What is your greatest fear? Like any parent, anything happening to my child, Isaac, who is 15.Which living person do you most admire, and why?Sir Alex Ferguson is the most impressive person I’ve met in terms of charisma and achievement.What is the trait you most deplore in others?Any form of assumed superiority over others for reasons of class or faith.Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? My car, a blue Lexus coupe. It was once stolen by thieves who made the mistake of parking it about 500 yards from my then partner’s parents’ house, so I simply stole it back.What is your most treasured possession?A signed Maradona shirt. It’s an England shirt, which he doesn’t normally sign. My son, who was six at the time, asked him and he didn’t have the heart to say no.What is your screensaver?My dog Biba, who died last year. She looked a bit like Basil Brush.What would your super power be? To beam myself up, Star Trek fashion. I’d never need to fly Ryanair again.Isla Fisher: ‘My guiltiest pleasure? Following Justin Bieber on Instagram’ Who would play you in the film of your life?We played this game on holiday, and the consensus was Postman Pat.What do you most dislike about your appearance?My Scottish legs, according to my mother. They are good for balance on a ski slope, but are never attractive on a man. My mother said she expected my legs to grow with the rest of my body; they just stopped.Which book changed your life?Philip Roth’s The Dying Animal, which is a dark take on life, and very interesting about how we over-rely on attachment to people and things.What did you want to be when you were growing up?When I was five I said I wanted to be either a funny man or on an advert.What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?I took great offence at a journalist who called me blokeish. I have always seen myself as metrosexual and in touch with my feminine side.What is your guiltiest pleasure?Chart music on Radio 1: I listen to Taylor Swift, Rihanna and Birdy.Which living person do you most despise, and why? Anyone who maliciously sets out to ruin other people’s lives. I could mention tabloid editors like Rebekah Brooks, Andy Coulson and Piers Morgan.When did you last cry, and why?England 1 Iceland 2.What is the closest you’ve come to death?Three times, all drowning. Once in Australia on Manly beach, once in Greece and once scuba-diving off the Barrier Reef. You do feel as if God is trying to tell you something.How would you like to be remembered?With the correct pronunciation of my name.Where would you most like to be right now?At my house in Italy, eating pasta and white truffles.