Nicolas Jaar approaches our interview with the wariness of an artist who suspects those writing about him have not always been well informed. After walking into the Brooklyn coffee shop where we meet, he asks: “Have you heard my record?” Then, not long after: “When did you get the record?” And finally: “What did you think of the record?”Nicolas Jaar: Sirens review – electronic noodling hypnotises, frustrates, dazzles I answer him directly. Sirens, the official follow-up to the 26-year-old’s 2011 electronic breakout Space Is Only Noise, is a focused and surprising album that builds on Jaar’s talent for crafting spacious, occasionally danceable soundscapes. The appearance of political commentary and dark humour herald an advance in the Chilean/American DJ/producer/songwriter’s sometimes insular aesthetic. The album’s opening and closing tracks reference the ravages of political inequality: Killing Time introduces the record with the words: “I think we’re just out of time/Says the officer to the kids/Ahmed was almost 15 and handcuffed.” Then there is a shift of scene, and perspective, and the addition of a bass-heavy percussive trudge to the gallows: “But comfort says we’re fine/And Angela said to open the door/Money, it seems, needs its working class.”The closing track, History Lesson, satirically surveys the low likelihood of accountability for various crimes against humanity. In between these uncommonly direct statements, Jaar delves into the more personal concerns that have animated his previous work. It is as if facing up to the grimness of certain global realities can’t be done, each and every hour of the day.Jaar brightens when I say: “You [started] with what I feel like is the crux of the whole thing.” He says the album is, in part, the result of becoming bored with his own self-obsession. “I felt I cannot be talking about me, me, me – my feelings, my private thing. When I had finished Pomegranates and Nymphs – two records that I made in between 2011 and 2015 – my first thought was: these records are extremely personal to me. They’re about my own experience as one human being.” With Sirens, he “wanted to really look out – but then weirdly, when I started looking out, I started looking even deeper in somehow. And that was a surprise.”Other surprises include the lack of sampling. Aside from a “song from the Andes mountains” (included on the track No) and a vintage audio recording of Jaar and his father talking, just before his parents’ separation – a reference to an oft-reported source of his melancholy – every sound on the standard edition of Sirens is pure Jaar.Though Sirens mixes languages and styles, it has a sonic throughline, thanks to Jaar’s reliance on modular synths and selective approach to sampling. “With Space, if I wanted a snare, I would fucking go steal a snare,” he says. “I just like took a bunch of sounds from shit.” For Sirens, he envisioned a “a multiplicity of voices” in the service of a coherent sound. “If you maybe just listen to it on a surface level, it’s like: ‘Oh, there’s the reggaeton song and then there’s the punk song,’” Jaar says. “I hope we can go a little deeper than that.”He credits a stint teaching at Boston’s Berklee College of Music in 2015 for helping him think about his approach. “I took the job but I was like: I’m going to hang out with these people. I don’t know what I could ever teach to these people. Some of them were more advanced than me. It was really humbling and fun.” But in the aftermath of the 2013 Boston marathon bombing, says Jaar, “The only question I was excited about, for whatever reason, in the moment, was: Can – or should – electronic music be political? Can we protest through instrumental music, for example? And how would you do that?”Jaar says one of his students “was seen as maybe a similar ethnicity” to the perpetrators of the violence, and felt profiled in the community in its aftermath. “That’s what he talked about. We were like how would you even – or why would we – put that into music? I have more questions about it now. I’m excited to see what this record does out in the world. Are people gonna take it as: ‘We don’t need this in music’? Or as: ‘We already think this. So why are you talking?’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jaar performing at the Barbican in London in 2013. Photograph: Hex/Corbis via Getty ImagesHe also says he will welcome negative responses to Sirens. Noting that he has navigated his way through several releases with a side-project feel – an ambient record (Pomegranates), a series of singles (Nymphs) and his Darkside band (a collaboration with guitarist Dave Harrington) – Jaar says he has tried to put elements from all those efforts to use on the new record. “I’m just not there yet. I failed at doing a combination of ‘looking out,’ still being as experimental, being as emotive as the Nymphs series is, potentially. It’s just this path, this formula that I’m trying to get.”Failure is something he feels “on an emotional level, more than a theoretical” one. “When I was making Pomegranates, for example, I failed at doing the kind of ambient record I really wanted to do. But I have this [thought] in me: ‘I can’t wait to make the next one.’ I already know the title of the next ambient record.”He talks of his differing musical identities and the attempt to make them cohere, but says he has realised that coherence doesn’t matter: “How do I reconcile these things? And now I’m realising: fuck reconciling.”• Sirens is released tomorrow.