This evening sees the final episode of This Is Us, Dan Fogelman’s unashamedly sentimental paean to families in all their messy, emotional and often hilarious reality. In America, This Is Us was hailed as the biggest new show of the year, drawing over 11 million fans to its finale, desperate to answer questions such as: how does Jack die? Will Randall sort himself out? Will Kate stay with Toby? And does anybody care what’s happening with Kevin?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   It’s the tiny moments that count the most… Kate and Toby in This Is Us. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Paul Drinkwater/NBCNot since Friday Night Lights has a series worn its heart on its sleeve so openly and to such great effect. We care about the Pearson family as we once cared about the Taylors or the families in the great emotional dramas of the 80s and 90s, such as Thirtysomething, the Wonder Years, Party of Five. Yet on this side of the Atlantic, This Is Us has barely resonated – which is a deep shame, because while Fogelman’s soapy story is an attempt to tug the heartstrings and cause tears to flow, this sort of show might just be what we need. So why aren’t Brits in thrall? Channel 4 inexplicably started airing This Is Us in the run-up to Christmas, when most of us were binging on old movies or vegging out in front of specials, then wondered why it failed to build a fanbase. They also put it on at the wrong time – 10.35pm is too late for its target audience, many of whom will be thinking of bed by that point. And though we live in the age of catch-up TV, one of the things that made This Is Us such a huge hit in the US is the sense that people were watching it together. It’s an old-fashioned show and it works best watched the old-fashioned way.Sob story: how This Is Us brought the TV tearjerker back to life It’s perhaps also true that we still respond best to dramas when they tell tales rooted in our specific experiences. What hits home in the US can fail to land in the UK and vice versa, and one person’s cathartic journey is another’s saccharine mess. Or to put it another way, they have This Is Us as we had Cold Feet – a fact that could also explain the failure of Parenthood or Brothers and Sisters to make an impact in Britain. The exception to this is Six Feet Under, which found an audience despite poor scheduling – but then Alan Ball’s biting, brilliant family saga is one of the finest dramas ever made and would have drawn viewers even if screened at 2am (which it sometimes felt like it was).This Is Us isn’t quite in Six Feet Under’s class, lacking that drama’s wit and willingness to experiment with tone and voice, but to dismiss it does it a disservice. Fogelman messes with the timeline, shifting between the early days of Jack and Rebecca’s marriage and the present-day lives of their grown-up children Kate, Kevin and Randall. He occasionally withholds information – most notably everything surrounding Jack’s death – and he’s partial to trying to reduce viewers to sobbing messes in the comfort of their own homes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A show partial to reducing viewers to sobbing messes in the comfort of their own homes … Kevin and Randall in This Is Us. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Ron Batzdorff/NBCIt’s a show where big, tragic things can and do happen (parents die, long-absent fathers return, breakdowns occur) but crucially, Fogelman never forgets that it’s often the tiny moments that count the most: Randall’s birth-father William bonding with his wife Beth over pot brownies, Kevin finally allowing stepfather Miguel to wear the family Thanksgiving hat, Toby arranging for Kate to sing at his aunt’s nursing home. Like Friday Night Lights, This Is Us celebrates the ordinary rhythms of family life, the unflashy joys of loving and being frustrated by your parents, or wanting to shoot the breeze with your siblings. The Pearsons and Taylors are often infuriating, but their quirks and in-jokes are those of families everywhere.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The emotional lynchpin … Mandy Moore as Rebecca in This Is Us. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Ron Batzdorff/NBCMost importantly the situations might occasionally be trite but the characters never are, and because of that we will go along with even the schmaltziest of twists. It’s also beautifully acted, most notably by Mandy Moore, whose matriarch Rebecca – battered by the death of her husband and one of her children in labour yet able to support everyone in need – is both the warm heart of the show and its emotional lynchpin. Fogelman himself told this paper that he thought This Is Us had been so successful because “people want to feel stuff and feel good … the world has become so negative but if it’s done well, sentimental art can be some of the most rewarding.” He has a point. This Is Us airs on Channel 4 at 10.35pm on Tuesdays