Sigma, On tourUpbeat drum’n’bass? That’ll be Sigma. A bit like other acts in their chart-conquering field, the London duo know a bit about guest vocalists and how to structure an anthem for radio. But whereas the likes of Rudimental will throw in the odd minor chord, much as a romantic comedy will have the obligatory moment of peril, Sigma are the full swimming-with-dolphins experience. And why be sad, anyway? After a few low-key releases, the pair broke big with Nobody To Love, and subsequent singles have continued to make a strong showing. Live, the pair play second fiddle to all those guests and, of course, to the ecstatic vibe.University Of East Anglia, Norwich, Wed; O2 Ritz Manchester, Thu; Rock City, Nottingham, Fri; touring to 2 AprJRCharles Bradley, LondonIt takes a special kind of talent to locate the soul music within Black Sabbath’s toe-curling 1972 ballad Changes. That, however, is one of the impressive tricks performed by Charles Bradley on his upcoming third album (also called Changes); the heart in his delivery and the power of his brass section wringing surprising new emotion from the tune, in much the same way that David Bowie did from the Beatles’ Across The Universe. In life, as it turns out, Bradley has faced tougher challenges than that. Born into poverty in Gainesville, Florida, his life as the “screaming eagle of soul” has been defined by difficult relationships, homelessness and also by hard work: first as a cook, and then (by night) as the James Brown impersonator Black Velvet. Good as he was as Soul Brother No 1, in his 60s he made a choice: “It’s time to do me.” Now he’s seeing that decision come good.O2 Forum Kentish Town, NW5, WedJRJack Garratt, On tour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Garratt Photograph: Daniel HarrisWhen you meet a solo artist, you generally also meet their team of co-writers, producers and collaborators, even if you’re never formally introduced. But Buckinghamshire’s Jack Garratt is a genuine one-man band in the vein of James Blake, though one using his powers for stirring pop rather than immersive melancholy. Neither a former featured vocalist nor Brit school graduate, Garratt’s path to success has been paved with endearingly crap milestones (he placed last in the race to be Britain’s Junior Eurovision entrant in 2005). Now, though, he has the weight of a Brits critics’ choice award and first place on the BBC Sound of 2016 list behind him.Olympia Theatre, Dublin, Wed; O2 ABC, Glasgow, Fri; touring to 15 AprJRGhédalia Tazartès, LondonThere isn’t much that is like a Ghédalia Tazartès concert. Simultaneously orchestral, painterly and unexpected, he pulls together furious and exciting worlds in his live performances. His experimental vocals, which run from growling to sweet singing, Gypsy ballads, glottal stutterings and clowning around, come together with musique concrète, field recordings of French children, sometimes with a table of objects, palm-sized folk instruments and toys to play, too. The French musician and vocalist has been making records since the late 70s, only beginning more regular live performance in the last decade. Since then, a string of reissues and new releases on labels such as Pan and Alga Marghen have cemented his place in the landscape. For a quick swot up, check out the epic Une Eclipse Totale De Soleil, recorded in 1979 (with a 24-minute third part made in the mid 90s), which was initially rejected by his label.Cafe Oto, E8, FriJAMalija, On tour      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   MailjaDrummerless jazz groups can face an uphill battle raising an audience’s pulse, but if the inbuilt grooves of the players are strong enough, the problem disappears. The British trio Malija know all about rhythm, and from many perspectives. Saxophonist Mark Lockheart is a cornerstone for subtle groovers Polar Bear, bassist Jasper Høiby a powerhouse in the dynamic Anglo-Scandinavian trio Phronesis, and Liam Noble a pianist who’s fluent in styles from bebop to funk. Last autumn, they released their debut album The Day I Had Everything, its title reflected in an idiomatic sweep taking in blues, bluegrass, tango, the sophisticated swing of Duke Ellington and Earl Hines, and the quirky lyricism of Wayne Shorter. It’s music often bracketed as “chamber jazz”, but Lockheart’s relaxed drive, Høiby’s powerful, Dave Holland-like sound, and Noble’s quick-witted eclecticism collectively stoke up a lot more heat than that.Seven Arts, Leeds, Thu; Crucible Studio, Sheffield, Fri; touring to 6 MayJTThe Importance Of Being Earnest, LondonIt’s rare for a new opera to travel as quickly and successfully as Gerald Barry’s version of Oscar Wilde’s most celebrated play has done. However, in the five years since The Importance Of Being Earnest was first performed in concert in Los Angeles, it has effectively established itself as a repertory piece on both sides of the Atlantic, and this week the Royal Opera revives the staging by Ramin Gray that was first seen at its Linbury Studio theatre three years ago. If genuinely funny comic operas are unusual enough, genuinely funny new operas are rarer still, and Barry’s Earnest is undeniably funny. Working from his own expertly filleted version of Wilde’s text, Barry’s achievement was to compose music to match that wit and verbal dexterity, creating a world of wicked parody as well as machine gun-like delivery of the text, which is interspersed with moments of profound surreality. There’s nothing else to quite match it.Barbican Theatre, EC2, Tue to 3 AprAC