Once upon a time, a television “event” emerged organically: a shared pop-cultural experience that sent everyone to the water cooler, butcher’s counter or telephone the next day to urgently debrief. Those “Where were you when … ” moments become timeless cultural phenomena: the shooting of JR on Dallas, the telecast of Charles and Diana’s wedding, or the final episode of M*A*S*H.Newton's Law: it's light and sweet – but maybe that's what we need right now | Lauren Carroll Harris There are a number of Australian television moments that still exist in that realm (Bob Hawke’s celebration of the America’s Cup win, anyone?) but, for enduring “Where were you when … ” power, there’s one episode of one TV series that springs immediately to mind: episode eight of Love My Way. If “episode eight of Love My Way” doesn’t elicit an immediate emotional response, you haven’t seen it yet (get your act together) and should stop reading – spoilers lie ahead.The episode, A Different Planet, is still referred to in hushed tones by some traumatised fans. Immediately after it aired, in January 2005, the messages started rolling in: Had I seen it? Had I heard? A web forum I was a member of became a sort of pseudo-therapeutic “sharing circle” late into the night. This was a moment that transcended (or, perhaps, predated) “spoilers”: we needed to talk about it, and we needed to talk now.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the most shocking and devastating moments in Australian TV history. Photograph: Southern Star GroupBy this point, Love My Way had established itself as an especially fresh and real drama series, in part thanks to the particularly lovely chemistry between single mother Frankie (played by Claudia Karvan, also a series co-creator) and her daughter, eight-year-old Lou (Alex Cook).Frankie’s life as an emerging artist never strayed into the fantasy realms a similar character might inhabit in Hollywood; hers was a complex world brought to vivid life by one of Australia’s finest actors. In Frankie’s attempts to balance her day job with her art, I saw a reflection of my own hopes and dreams. By her side through it all was little Lou, always charming, never saccharine. Only these two actors could pull off a mother-daughter discussion of William Blake’s ideas about the material world and religion without it coming across as naff.In other words, by the time episode eight rolled around, we’d well and truly grown to love Frankie and Lou. Frankie’s art was soaring, Lou was thriving, things were looking up with Frankie’s new beau, Howard. In fact, episode seven was borderline utopian in its gentle happiness; what could possibly go wrong?       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frankie and Lou in episode seven. Photograph: Southern Star GroupA Different Planet, that’s what. The episode remains one of the most shocking and devastating in Australian television drama.Barely five minutes in, Lou falls off her scooter; Frankie and Julia (Asher Keddie) initially laugh it off, assuming that Lou is bunging it on. But when her little friend’s mother asks, “Is she breathing?,” things become horribly real. A passerby stops over to help. Lou’s heart has stopped. The ambulance arrives and takes Lou and Frankie to the children’s hospital but it’s too late: she has suffered a massive heart attack. The rest unfolds in an awful daze, just like grief itself.Until I accepted this commission, I had not rewatched A Different Planet. Like Snowtown and Gallipoli, watching the episode at the time of its airing was a plunge into emotional depths that, while I appreciated the artistry involved in its creation, I had no plans to repeat.I was in my early 20s when I first saw A Different Planet and found it about as upsetting as a finely tuned piece of fiction can be – but watching it again at 34, more keenly aware of the mortality of those dear to me, I found it instead deeply profound.What’s remarkable about the episode is the restraint with which the director, Jessica Hobbs, and the writer, Louise Fox, treat material that in other hands could have led to an explosion of syrupy score or, worse, rose-filtered flashbacks. Indeed, look at the video excerpts from any listicle of “heartbreaking moments in Australian television” and you’ll find plenty of musical cues from the Time Life “emotional terrorism” suite. But in Love My Way, Lou and Frankie are in the ambulance to the hospital before a single note of music even plays.As the ambulance drives away, the passing horse rider who moments earlier was the target of “locker-room talk” between Frankie and Julia peers through the driver’s window with concern; it’s an artful, cinematic moment that could well have been left in the cutting room today. There are many touches like that throughout the episode, which never shies away from the grinding and at times irrational nature of grief. Frankie’s rage and primal agony is possibly Karvan’s finest work.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The episode never shies away from the grinding, and at times irrational, nature of grief.’ Photograph: Southern Star GroupReturning to the show is a bittersweet experience in more ways than one. Rewatching the first season, I thought of what its co-creator John Edwards said in his keynote address at the Screen Forever conference in 2015: “My view of the present state of the drama production industry is that we have run ourselves into a stagnant billabong: less production, same writers over and over, inflating costs for no apparent quality gain, shrinking audiences and increasingly reliant on subsidy.”Could such a show be made today, even on subscription television, shot and performed in such impressionistic, shaggy fashion? Love My Way was unique in that it trusted its viewers to go with it even as certain stories meandered or, in the case of A Different Planet, screamed to a halt. Australia's TV channels plunge into the battle for the water-cooler Certainly, you could never hope to assemble such a powerhouse cast without taking out a number of large mortgages. To watch A Different Planet is to watch Australian acting royalty firing on all cylinders, from star and co-producer Karvan to Keddie, Dan Wyllie, Brendan Cowell, Lynette Curran, Gillian Jones and Max Cullen – at one point all in the same room at once.(Karvan and Cullen both received AFI awards for their performances; watching Karvan’s expression crumple as Cullen sings The Wild Mountain Thyme at Lou’s funeral, it’s not hard to see why.)The sole sour note in returning to A Different Planet is that it had to be done care of a friend’s DVD. In an indictment of Australian streaming media, the finest local drama series of this century is not available to watch online, presumably swallowed by Foxtel’s ill-fated Presto experiment. Then again, perhaps there’s a silver lining to that; watching Lou die twice is two times too many for one lifetime.