Police officer turned crime author Clare Mackintosh has seen off JK Rowling’s alter ego Robert Galbraith and two-time winner Mark Billingham to win the Theakston Old Peculier crime novel of the year award for her debut novel, I Let You Go.Mackintosh, who worked for 12 years as a police officer, began writing full-time after leaving the force in 2011. I Let You Go, which was selected as the winner from a longlist of 18 books and a shortlist of six, is about a woman who moves to a remote part of Wales after her child is killed in a hit-and-run accident, and the detective who is investigating the case. A New York Times review called it “cunning” and “genuinely shocking”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Queen of Crime’ ... Val McDermid. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the GuardianMackintosh was presented with the £3,000 prize on Thursday evening, the opening night of the Theakston Old Peculier crime writing festival in Harrogate, an annual event that is also the world’s largest celebration of the genre. The prize, now in its 12th year, is considered the most prestigious award for crime fiction and thrillers in the UK.Crime novelist Val McDermid was also a winner, presented with an award for her outstanding contribution to the genre. McDermid is most noted for creating the Tony Hill and Carol Jordan series, which was adapted as the TV drama Wire in the Blood, and for her characters journalist Lindsay Gordon and the private investigator Kate Brannigan.McDermid, who joins a venerable list of previous winners including Ruth Rendell, PD James and Colin Dexter, called it “an honour and a thrill”.“The community of writers and readers at [the festival] is unlike any other in its warmth and generosity and so this means a huge amount to me,” McDermid said. “This year sees the publication of my 30th novel and I can’t think of a better way to celebrate that.”JK Rowling, who was shortlisted for the novel of the year award for Career of Evil, the third book she’s written under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith, sent a message of support for McDermid, declaring her “the Queen of Crime”.Rowling added: “She has been showing us all the way for a long time now. One of Robert’s proudest moments was receiving a favourable review from the great McDermid, who received a thank you note in fake handwriting, only to receive one two weeks later in my real handwriting when I was unwillingly unmasked.”