The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Caliban: Digital Reggae   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest When someone plays before me I like to reset the floor a bit with a juxtaposition of vibes or a drop in tempo. So if some guy is banging it out, I could play this. You can go anywhere you want after that.The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Enigma: Cave Man   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Every floor is different, but I often like to resort to a touch of semi-electronic European disco with the right amount of cheese. This would be a good example; it caters to all walks of life.The track that currently gets the most rewinds Tornado Wallace ft Sui Zhen: Today   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I don’t know how he did it, but this is the best classic track I’ve never heard. Everything about this is right: the production, the vocals, the vibe. Ten out of 10!The track I wish I’d signed to my label Night Communication: Night Clerk Not quite the same thing, but the next release on my Safe Trip label is a big retrospective of early Italian house. As extensive as the project already is, there are so many tracks from that era I would have wanted to include but for various reasons some didn’t make the cut, this being one of them.The track that should have been a crossover hit The War on Drugs: Red Eyes   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I wish this could be a proper hit; it sounds like the best song Springsteen never made.The track I’d play at my auntie’s wedding Womack & Womack: Teardrops   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I’ve never played a wedding, although I had a dubious offer from some rich sheikh once. But it always sounded like a pretty fun gig to me. I’ll play this at anybody’s wedding, actually. If you don’t like this song, you need help.The track I’d play at sunset in Ibiza Derrick May: Kaotic Harmony   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This has been a track of choice for quite a while. I’ve played a very extended 30-minute mix cutting back and forth, and then when the sun’s down we’re in another dimension.Young Marco plays Sub Club, Glasgow, on 9 April