Finally, we get the Dancing Itos. It took eight episodes for The People v OJ Simpson to reference one of the most enduring, peculiar elements of the hysteria around the Trial of the Century – a recurring sketch on the Tonight Show with Jay Leno that poked fun at Judge Lance Ito, the Simpson trial’s overwhelmed administrator. The Dancing Itos represent not only the nation’s rapidly increasing tendency to mock the court proceedings, but also a certain level of contempt for Ito himself. In this week’s episode, Judge Ito is shown losing control of his courtroom and unintentionally turning the jury against him.For the last seven episodes, the jury has been nothing more than a collective side character, a nebulous blob the prosecution and defense hoped to manipulate and bend to their will. Last night, the audience got a glimpse at who those individual jurors were and the toll that the trial took on their psyches. At first, the whole affair seems like one big holiday. They’ve got free rooms at a hotel just blocks from the courthouse, free food and a front-row seat for one of the most culturally significant events of the 1990s. What they didn’t plan on were the crippling restrictions: no TV, no laughing, no talking, constant supervision and surveillance, and worst of all, no hotel pool. By day 124, dramatized in the cold open, the jurors were ready to tear each other apart. They couldn’t even decide on whether to watch Seinfeld or Martin during their sanctioned entertainment period. “What’s a Seinfeld?” a black juror asks.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The cultural divide was just as strong inside the jury box as it was in the country at large, which led to the opposing lawyers going back and forth getting jurors dismissed in order to shape the demographics of the jury to their liking – more white people for the prosecution and more black people for the defense. Juror 620 gets dismissed for lying about his police record and juror 462 is sent off for not mentioning she had been the victim of domestic violence. Each dismissal threatened to tip the balance of power from one side to the other. But all of that drama only made the lives of the jurors more contentious, tenuous and unpleasant. Familiar faces would disappear and new ones would take their place, shaking up the status quo and threatening the careful social balance of this miniature society. Three deputies in charge of the sequestering of the jury get reassigned, upending their routine to such a degree that the jury protests by wearing all black to court one day. That act of quiet defiance causes Ito to cancel testimony for the day and send the jury back to their hotel to cool off. How one is expected to relax when monitored and controlled at all times is beyond me.Their stress certainly didn’t make it easier for them to deliberate on the matter at hand. In last night’s show, the trial shifted to DNA and the showdown between Barry Scheck and LAPD criminologist Dennis Fung. Yet again, the DA’s office saw an element of their case which was seemingly a foolproof path to conviction blow up in their faces. Even though the DNA (described as “many, many times more accurate than a fingerprint” by Fung) pointed to Simpson being the killer, Fung was such a terrible, trembling witness and the evidence was mishandled to such a degree that reasonable doubt was further solidified in the minds of the exasperated jury. The befuddled Fung, seemingly unaware that he failed miserably, went around shaking the hands of the defense council after his testimony was over.But while the jury was gaining more reason to acquit OJ, Robert Kardashian’s conscience wouldn’t let him revel in the not guilty verdict. Despite poker nights in jail with Simpson, the evidence as he sees it laid out points increasingly toward his best friend being a murderer. In one of the more powerful scenes in the series, Kardashian reveals the full extent of his moral crisis to his ex-wife, Kris Jenner. David Schwimmer as Kardashian pulls out his Emmy-bait best work, turning on the tears and collapsing in Jenner’s arms. Selma Blair, one of the more spot-on portrayals in the show, holds her own as Jenner. One of the joys of the miniseries form is the ability to build to these character moments slowly, to pull away from certain characters and come back to them when necessary. We haven’t seen much of Kardashian in the last few episodes, but we’ve seen enough of him to take note of the slow progression of his character from OJ apologist to his greatest skeptic. His personal tragedy is that his epiphany about his pal Uncle Juice comes at the very moment when OJ’s freedom became all but assured. Next week, the Mark Fuhrman tapes come into play and turn the trial on its head yet again.