It was Sarah Perry’s husband who told her, on a car journey through Essex, having spotted a sign to the village of Henham, about the legend of a serpent. Perry felt her scalp tighten, the better to grasp the idea and keep it safe inside her head – a feeling she has become used to when she thinks of something she knows will make a great book. “Immediately, I thought if that beast came back in the Victorian era, post-Darwin, when there was a trend for natural history and people were fossil-collecting, people would have a very different response from those in the 17th century, who had seen this beast.” By the end of the 40-minute journey, Perry had plotted the entire story, knew her characters, “and the idea of setting up a conflict between myth and superstition and faith and reason and science and all of those clashing over this one potential beast”.It then took another 18 months before she did anything about it, but one February morning, she began. Nine months later, she had a first draft. “It was like I was possessed, it came out really quickly,” she says. “I hunched over [my desk] until I would get numb toes.”Perry’s book, The Essex Serpent, has been in the bestseller lists for weeks, has been championed by literary editors and, until the longlist was announced last week without her name on it, was mentioned as a Booker prize possibility. Its distinctive serpent-in-the-garden-of-William Morris cover is laden with praise from Sarah Waters and John Burnside. Set in 1893, this gothic tale follows the young widow Cora Seaborne, an enthusiastic amateur palaeontologist, to a dank wetlands village in Essex, where a sea serpent is said to be terrorising villagers. The book is stippled with unsettling thoughts – talking about fossils, one character says: “Sometimes I think we must be walking on shoals of bodies without realising it and all the earth’s a graveyard.”The book is so strange that you become sensitised to the eerie and uncanny all around you. I wait for Perry in a dark-walled cafe in London, and notice that just behind me, gibbet-like, hangs a leg of ham. My first glimpse of her arriving is via a curved mirror, so that she seems to creep in, distorted. And she is not as I expected. She has written one of the most revolting passages I can remember reading for a long time – I won’t give it away here, but it involves writhing and putrefaction – but in person, she is light and smiley. Her voice is high, as if she’s singing rather than speaking.“I really wanted to write a version of the 19th century that, if you blinked, looked a little like ours. I wanted to write a version of the Victorian age that wasn’t a theme park of peasoupers and street urchins. The more I looked, the more I found that not a great deal has changed – an ineffectual parliament, the power of big business and the insecurity around housing. And contemporary Conservatism going back to this idea that morality and poverty are in some way linked.”The Essex Serpent by Sarah Perry review – a compulsive novel of ideas One of her characters, Martha, is campaigning for London’s poverty-stricken inhabitants in a way that wouldn’t look out of place now. The rhetoric around the “deserving” (and therefore “undeserving”) poor is the same today, and is, says Perry, “repellent. It’s very 19th century and very 21st century at the same time. If anything, we are more regressive. There was much more of a philanthropic bent in Victorian society and I think what might have happened to us is we had so many years of a well-functioning welfare state that personal and business philanthropy was no longer required. What’s happening now is we’re cutting away the government help but there’s nothing to step in.”Like Perry’s first novel, After Me Comes the Flood, water is a recurring theme (“I’m just obsessed with water”) and she says, with a laugh, that maybe one day she will write a book without a vicar in it. Her debut featured Elijah, a preacher who had lost his faith; The Essex Serpent has William Ransome, a rector trying to use rationality and reason with his frightened flock, but who refuses to see that his faith, in Cora’s words, is “all strangeness and mystery”, even though he is enlightened and educated. Perry says this is “the whole preoccupation of my life – how to live with a faith and an intelligent and querying mind is the question. You would think it would have been answered in 2016, but not only has it not been answered, it seems to be getting more troubling.”She describes herself as “post religious”. She grew up in Chelmsford, the youngest of five daughters in a Strict Baptist family. “If you’re brought up in a fundamentalist sect – or church, chapel, I never know what to say in a way that won’t upset people – you’re constantly attended by a number of feelings,” she says. “First, of sin and of the hopelessness of your condition as a human. Second, the fact that redemption is merely a prayer away. So simultaneously you are a sinner – ‘The heart of man is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked’ – but on the other hand: ‘Seek and you shall find.’ You’re constantly treading this line.”And that feeling of not fitting in with the rest of society? She nods. “I would go to school and people would be talking about television, which was meaningless to me, and bands. I can remember someone talking about Take That, and I was like: ‘Take what?’” Her church, the Ebenezer Strict and Particular Baptist Chapel, was a 19th-century building in Chelmsford with thick, mottled-glass windows, “like the bottom of a beer bottle, inappropriately. And on a Sunday morning, when Sunday trading opened, I would see people walking past the windows on the way into town. That glass might have been a gap of 100 years as far I was concerned, because I was in chapel with my head covered, in a long skirt, with my King James Bible, and at the front of the church a little old organ being pedalled away, and a man with a beard and proper fire-and-brimstone rhetoric. And people just trolleying along into town. I think that will never leave me, that feeling that something that may only be a pane of glass but might as well be an abyss separates me from everything else.”At primary school, she thinks other children made attempts to bully her, and tell her she was strange. “I would be like: ‘I know.’ They weren’t quite sure what to do. I suppose I would have liked to have worn jeans and gone to the school disco but I don’t recall a feeling of discontent because all of the stuff that I was allowed to do – playing the piano, doing embroidery, painting, reading – I was really happy doing. I was aware that people found me strange and my family was unusual, but I didn’t mind that much.”She never wanted to rebel, she says. “What would I have done? Struggled into a pair of uncomfortable jeans – which I still can’t wear, I don’t know how anyone wears those – and stood really awkwardly in the corner of a disco, listening to music I didn’t recognise.” She was a devout teenager, baptised at 16 – she once stood in front of her biology class and announcing that she believed in the six-day creation, and remembers thinking that women who wore trousers were immoral. She laughs. “I remember speaking to my mum about it once and she said: ‘Where did you get that idea?’ But if you teach your daughters they cannot wear trousers because it’s forbidden in scripture, then what do you think they’re going to think about all the women who do wear trousers?”She and her husband (Perry married when she was 20) withdrew from the church around the same time that same-sex marriage was being debated in parliament. For a while, doubt had been creeping in. The issue of gay marriage crystallised “the whole thing about being required to subsume logic and reason for something someone said a book said. I realised I could no more worship a god who would not allow two people to make a public declaration of love and fidelity than I could fly. I could not do it.” Her childhood “formed me into someone who is happiest in the gothic [tradition] because that is a way of exploring the transgressive and strange in a way I’m happy with”. Did she always want to be a writer? “Yes,” she says. “In a way that is quite distinct from ambition I think. The best analogy I can think of is I know many women who have always known they would be a mum. It’s not an ambition, it’s simply the knowledge that this is the way their life is leading and I suspect they would feel unfulfilled if they weren’t.”She had various jobs – as a missionary, church organist and Sunday school teacher when she was still a Baptist, and then became a civil servant for a few years at the Department for Work and Pensions, which would be enough to make anyone escape into make-believe. She took an MA in creative writing because she knew it was the only way she would force herself to get a book written. Her tutor – and later her PhD supervisor – was the former poet laureate Andrew Motion, who taught her how to earn every syllable, every line.Perry came out of Royal Holloway, University of London, with her first novel, was taken on by an agent within hours; she considered herself a huge success. Then the book was rejected by several publishers over about 10 months. When it was finally picked up, it got great reviews and was longlisted for the Guardian’s First Book award, giving her the confidence to continue.What is her life like now? She isn’t sure. In May, Perry was diagnosed with Graves’ disease, an autoimmune disorder. “It has affected my heart and left me with pain in my legs, and problems with my eyes. Maybe the worst effect is that I can’t read, because I have no concentration span any more. The thing that has been the defining feature of my life is now a struggle. I haven’t finished reading a book since 15 May. I remember the date.” Someone told her the 19th-century poet Christina Rossetti had had it; on the internet in the middle of the night, Perry read how Rossetti’s hair had fallen out and her eyes bulged. “She became deranged with the loss of her beauty and how the disease had informed her strange and slightly harrowing work. I was thinking: ‘Oh my God, is my hair falling out?’ But, you know, modern-day medicine ...” She laughs, so I venture a tasteless joke about how at least it’s a good disease for a gothic writer. “I know! It was one of the first things I said: I’m a gothic novelist with Graves’ disease.”