25 years of Ninja Tune: the UK underground's maverick trailblazers Migrants eh? Coming over here with their delicious food and original musical hybrids. As a jazz composer, percussionist and producer born in the USA, raised in India and living in London, Sarathy Korwar knows plenty about the cultural interplay surrounding migration. The basis of his debut album Day To Day – which has caught the ears of tastemakers such as Gilles Peterson and Four Tet – couldn’t be more appropriate as a retort to the suspicious, inward-looking unease of the current climate.Korwar spent time with the migrant Siddi people of southern India, specifically The Sidi Troupe of Ratanpur in rural Gujarat, and his field recordings of their hypnotic chants and percussive African-derived polyrhythms underpins Day To Day. Mostly Sufi Muslims, the Siddis are descended from the African Bantu, who travelled to India as merchants, sailors and slaves from the seventh century onwards. “I was fascinated by their influences,” says Korwar. “For example, some of the lyrics are in Swahili. It’s an oral tradition so they are singing words they don’t understand.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Korwar particularly responded to their improvisational spirit. He blends the Siddis’ repetitive, devotional style with the blissed-out astral jazz of Alice Coltrane or the languid, exploratory grooves of the Ninja Tune label. It turns out that sacred Indian folk and open-ended jazz have more in common than anyone could have imagined.And it’s not just their style that caught Korwar’s ear, but how they play. “For the Siddi, it’s about the act of performing rather than what actually gets played,” he says. “What’s lacking in a lot of contemporary music is complete surrender. While they’re playing, they’re consumed. All performers should be looking for that, in one way or another.”On my radar: Gilles Peterson’s cultural highlights The parallel with Korwar’s own varied heritage is obvious but a sense of common purpose is essential to dispel suggestions of cultural appropriation. One of Day To Day’s standout tracks bears the title Indefinite Leave To Remain, a bureaucratic phrase which will be tediously familiar to all emigres. “The Siddis are migrants. And migration is a key ingredient to everything I do,” says Korwar. “I liked that title because it was formal and official, and also the ring to it once you took it out of context.”Evidently, issues surrounding multiculturalism have fed into the album’s creation. “I think any immigrant feels some pressure,” he says. “You’re aware of [racial] undertones because they crop up in everyday contexts, particularly if you’re brown or black-skinned. Words need to be re-examined. Words like terrorism. Like refugee. Meanings are always evolving It’s a difficult time.” This is unarguable but Korwar is optimistic that his album can inspire hope, or at least, open-mindedness. “I’m happy there’s a space for an Indian-jazz-folk-classical-electronic record!” he says. Prepare to have your Spotify categories cheerfully confused.Day To Day is out now on Ninja Tune. He plays Total Refreshment Centre, N16, Thursday 14 July