Guy Martin’s Wall Of Death: Live7.15pm, Channel 4Motorcyclist and professional northerner Guy Martin isn’t afraid of a challenge. His guilelessness in the face of a tall order means he is now the Jamie Oliver of engineering. Tonight’s assignment, which will be screened live, is that circus perennial the “wall of death”, in which a motorcyclist speeds around the inside of a wooden cylinder. Guy has sought advice from Ken Fox, the acknowledged master of the wall, but the sheer scale of Guy’s wall is mindblowing. “It’s like the Colosseum,” says Ken. “You expect to see lions and gladiators.” John RobinsonMaigret9pm, ITVA young woman is found murdered on a cobbled backstreet in postwar Paris and renowned detective Jules Maigret knows it to be the work of a serial killer who continues to elude him. Rowan Atkinson is beautifully still as he warms to the lead role in this tremendously stylish production, the first of two one-offs. The supporting cast are also superb as the pressure mounts to arrest someone – anyone – to calm the locals. It hits just the right tone of suspense and mystery and looks absolutely stunning. Julia RaesideThe Island With Bear Grylls9pm, Channel 4Despite sternly lecturing everyone about how easy it is to die from exposure, Bear Grylls remains genuinely inescapable. While his celebrity survival challenge continues over on ITV, here’s a third series of C4’s attritional reality show, a grim mix of Shipwrecked and The Walking Dead. Two oblivious civilian teams divided by gender are dumped 2km apart on the same uninhabited atoll. With limited drinking water, can they survive both the hostile environment and their own poor decision-making long enough to hook up? Graeme Virtue      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Running man … Eddie Izzard in South Africa. Photograph: Amanda Searle/Comic Relief/PAEddie Izzard: 27 Marathons In 27 Days9.40pm, BBC2Hats off to the lovable Eddie Izzard in this documentary that charts his superhuman challenge to complete 27 marathons in 27 days for Sport Relief. Izzard travels to South Africa to pay tribute to the number of years Nelson Mandela spent in prison and the cameras follow his journey through the baking heat. One day, he even has to run a double marathon to make up for time spent in hospital during the quest. His spirit will have people reaching to donate, which is what it’s all about. Hannah J DaviesFresh Meat10pm, Channel 4The superlative student sitcom bows out after four series as the gang get their results, attend graduation and stage one last hurrah in the form of alternative end-of-year ball Vodstock. As well as capturing the minutiae of undergrad life with astounding accuracy, the show has also managed to simulate the experience of university itself: you’re parachuted into a cast of weird new characters, over the years you grow to love them unconditionally and, finally, everyone just goes home and all you’re left with is nostalgic reminiscence. Rachel AroestiPitch Slapped10pm, LifetimeOpening episode of a US reality series following high school a cappella rivals hijacked by expert coaches. “My mission is to spread harmony through harmony,” proclaims Deke Sharon as he mentors the cheesily named Stay Tuned. But while Sharon is showing off his best trumpet impression, frenemy Diana Preisler is blowing her own in a bid to take Highland Voices to the top. Oddly compelling, although there’s a whiff of a Pitch Perfect cash-in, as we’re told early on that Sharon masterminded the music for the franchise. Hannah J DaviesGirls10.10pm, Sky AtlanticThere’s always been an undercurrent of resentment towards Girls, not dissimilar to that levelled at Seinfeld – self-absorbed types living overprivileged lives. However, as with Seinfeld, the characters of Girls are living in a constant purgatory, not always of their own devising, and high comedy is the result. Despite the recent relationship epiphany experienced by Marnie after quarrelling with Desi, they have another fight. Marnie heads out for a walk and unexpectedly bumps into a figure from her past. David StubbsToday’s best live sport• T20 Women’s World Cup Cricket: South Africa v Sri Lanka Action from Banglalore. 10.45am, Sky Sports 2• League 2 Football: AFC Wimbledon v Portsmouth All the action from Kingsmeadow. 12.30pm, Sky Sports 5• Rugby League: Widnes Vikings v St Helens From the Select Security Stadium. 2.45pm, Sky Sports 1• NBA: Toronto Raptors v Oklahoma City Thunder Action from the Air Canada Centre. 12.30am, BT Sport 1Film choiceThe Fall Of The Roman Empire (Anthony Mann, 1964) 12.30pm, BBC2This Technicolor precursor of Gladiator stars Christopher Plummer as corrupt emperor Commodus, who rules a Rome beset by barbarians – the light is growing dim, and Mann creates a tangible sense of spreading darkness. The heroic set pieces –chariot race, javelin duel, the clash of swords – may not match the computer-enhanced Gladiator’s, but Alec Guinness is a marvellous Marcus Aurelius.Blades Of Glory (Josh Gordon, Will Speck, 2007) 7pm, Comedy CentralThis goofy tale of sequins and sporting rivalry has two ice-skaters – Will Ferrell and Jon Heder – banned from competition after a public brawl, then discovering a loophole that enables them to skate again – as a duo. It’s not as good as Dodgeball in the sports spoof stakes, but there are plenty of chuckles nonetheless.Avengers Assemble (Joss Whedon, 2012) 8.30pm, BBC1      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Loki at me … Tom Hiddleston in Avengers Assemble.Whedon weaves his witty magic in this first outing for Marvel’s superpowered tag-team. Thor, Iron Man, Captain America, Hulk, Black Widow and Hawkeye team up against Thor’s evil, world-threatening brother Loki (the all-conquering Tom Hiddleston).