Our post-referendum celebration of the richness of European life – yes, you guessed it, I am not a fan of Brexit – moves on this week to Paris, and I’m happy to say that, as I’d hoped, you have done all the work for me with a set of excellent suggestions. Crowdsourcing is definitely the future. In fact, the present.This is primarily a classical music blog (whatever “classical” music is – I detest the term), but it would be impossible to do a piece about music in Paris without mentioning Edith Piaf, a fixture at Olympia – the great concert hall in the French capital – for almost 30 years. @Oldiebutgoodie suggests her signature tune, La Vie en Rose, which is fine by me.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Edif Piaf perform La Vie en RoseIf anything, I love Charles Trenet – another Olympia regular – even more than the great Piaf. His song Ménilmontant, about the much-loved district in the city’s 20th arrondissement, is a delight. “Ménilmontant, yes indeed, madam / That’s where I left my heart,” sings Trenet, whose dodgy wartime record – he performed for the occupying Germans, but was cleared of collaboration – I hope we to some extent forgive, for all the pleasure he gave in his long career.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   French singer and songwriter Charles Trenet, seen jumping in front of the Eiffel Tower in 1987. Photograph: Herve Merliac/APOldiebutgoodie also offers Cole Porter’s I Love Paris, definitively sung by Ella Fitzgerald, while corre11 suggests Charles Aznavour’s J’aime Paris au Mois de Mai. Has any city inspired so many love songs to itself?Cole Porter was not the only American who loved Paris. George Gershwin, who spent time studying there in the mid-1920s, captured his feeling for the city in the symphonic suite An American in Paris, written in 1928. “My purpose,” he explained, “is to portray the impression of an American visitor in Paris as he strolls about the city and listens to various street noises and absorbs the French atmosphere.” Energetic, exciting, cacophonous – the young American, beset by occasional twinges of homesickness, catches the vibrant mood of the city perfectly. As Alberichthenibelung says: “Gershwin’s An American in Paris always sounds to me like the sequel to Elgar’s Cockaigne.”Gershwin’s jazz-inflected score also hints at the relationship between that musical form and the city – generations of American jazz musicians found a devoted audience there. Miles Davis adored Paris – not least because black musicians felt more respected there than in the racially segregated US – and made many visits. It was fitting that he gave his final performance in the city he loved.On the classical front, MichaelBulley suggests Jacques Ibert’s Suite Symphonique (1930), another atmospheric journey round the city taking in the Metro, the suburbs, the Mosque of Paris, a restaurant in the Bois de Boulogne, a steamship and a fairground parade. By turns energetic and elegant, it expresses the essence of the city in a musical language not so far removed from that of Gershwin.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Watch Miles Davis: The Last PerformanceMr Bulley also recommends Haydn’s Paris symphonies, a set of six written in the mid-1780s for the Comte d’Ogny. Marie Antoinette was reputedly keen on Symphony No 85 in B flat major – hence its nickname “The Queen”. Since she was to lose her head in the revolution a few years later, it might be appropriate for this to be our choice.Mozart, too, wrote a work which came to be known as the Paris symphony, written in the French capital in 1778 when he was just 22. It is one of his greatest symphonies, scored for the largest orchestra he had written for at that point. He seems to have had scant regard for French audiences and remarked: “I hope that even these idiots will find something in it to like.” He need not have worried: the reception on its premiere in June 1778 was ecstatic. Following that, abkquan makes a strong case for including Puccini’s tearjerker La Bohème, which was based on Henri Murger’s 1851 novel Scènes de la Vie de Bohème, about a group of young bohemians living in the Latin quarter of Paris in the 1840s. Puccini captures the pleasures, the squalor and the ultimate tragedy with great poignancy, and defies us not to be moved by the first ecstatic meeting between Mimi and Rodolfo.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Listen to Haydn’s Symphony No 85, ‘La Reine’Another work mentioned by abkquan is Frederick Delius’s Paris: The Song of a Great City. He is not greatly taken by it, complaining that it “doesn’t sound remotely Parisian”, but it does have a languid charm – though it may be more an exploration of Delius’s head than of the city he loved and lived in for a decade at the end of the 19th century. But if you imagine night falling over the city and the turbid waters of the Seine, it has a certain Whistlerian mystery and power. It would be impossible in a survey of Parisian music not to include something by that consummate Parisian Erik Satie, who lived in the city in its Belle Époque heyday at the turn of the 20th century. His enigmatic Gymnopédies and Gnossiennes, composed for solo piano, are a private reverie on a world that would be blown away by the first world war.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Nikolaus Harnoncourt conducts Mozart’s Paris symphony, No 31They were written at a time when Paris was the centre of the world’s musical life – Ravel, Debussy, Fauré and Saint-Saens were all active at the same time – and indeed of artistic life generally. It was in Paris, at the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées on 29 May 1913, that Stravinsky’s ballet The Rite of Spring was premiered, producing a near-riot in the audience, at a stroke revolutionising 20th-century music and seeming to prefigure the violence of the war that broke out the following year. Music would never quite recover its equilibrium, and in some ways neither would Paris.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest An excerpt from The Rite of SpringNext time, we will consider Venice and the music associated with it, so please offer your suggestions below. Any further reflections on Paris also welcome. While everyone else is talking Brexit, we will continue to delight in our European-ness. We at least have a plan.