A Killing in My Family 10pm, Channel 4When families are torn apart by murder or manslaughter, the focus is often on pursuing justice. But what about those left behind? This intimate and often heartbreaking film embeds with specialist charity Winston’s Wish during a residential weekend hosting eight families trying to rebuild their lives after experiencing unthinkable trauma. Sympathetic counsellors offer support, understanding and a cathartic opportunity to vent. Graeme VirtueWho Do You Think You Are? 8pm, BBC1The latest run of the celebrity genealogy series concludes with newsreader Sophie Raworth tracing her family history. It’s easy to see why the producers thought this would be a memorable way to close proceedings. As Raworth hunts down relatives on her father’s side of the family, she researches a cracking, if tragic, story involving religious persecution, high-quality pianofortes and emigration to the Big Apple. Jonathan Wright      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sophie Raworth in Who Do You Think You Are? Photograph: Stephen Perry/BBC/Stephen Perry/Wall to WallHidden Restaurants with Michel Roux Jr 8pm, Channel 4As patrons of L’Enclume will know, fine dining can often mean remote dining – supporting a philosophy of truly local cooking. If people want good food, they will travel by appointment, a theory underpinning this four-part series with Michel Roux and bearded gastro Freddy Bird. Remote, picturesque: this show brings us food served in sheds and lovely glades. Or as tonight, a restaurant only accessible by boat. John RobinsonBenidorm 9pm, ITVMore misunderstandings in the Spanish sun. Kenneth (Tony Maudsley) starts a taxi business by mistake, while Joyce (Sherrie Hewson) worries about her boss discovering that she can’t speak Spanish, and Joey (Nathan Bryon) thinks a trip to Ibiza is free when it isn’t. Mainly, though, we’re wondering if randy wrinkly Nana Chase (former Brookside star Kate Fitzgerald) has really slept with a 20-year-old. It’s fine, but it’s half an hour of sitcom in an hour-long slot. Jack SealeThe Man Who Shot Tutankhamun 9pm, BBC4Ignore the silly enticement of the programme’s title. This is the story of Harry Burton, official photographer for Howard Carter’s Tutankhamun excavations of the 1920s, whose images helped make the find such a sensation. Margaret Mountford and photographer Harry Cory Wright revisit Egypt and recreate the conditions under which Burton worked. As much a treat for the camera enthusiast as the Egyptologist. David Stubbs Drunk History 10pm, Comedy CentralReturn of the rarely funny – and even more occasionally educational – series in which inebriated comedians demonstrate historical events. Tonight includes Chris O’Dowd and Alexander Armstrong recreating the Dambusters raid as directed by Joel Dommett, and Brian “Q” Quinn and Sal Vulcano discussing Alexander Graham Bell. The flaw is in the format: to the sober, the drunk are mostly merely annoying and boring. Andrew MuellerWoman 9pm, VicelandThis new series – exec produced by feminist icon Gloria Steinem – sees female journalists explore how violence continues to affect women across the world. The result is a series of bite-sized, almost uncomfortably up-close films that offer millennial audiences and beyond an insight into places rarely seen on screen. In this opening episode, premiering on International Women’s Day, reporter Alice Speri is in Colombia, meeting rebel Farc fighters past and present. Hannah J DaviesFilm choiceBarefoot in the Park (Gene Saks, 1967) 4.25pm, Sky Cinema GreatsRobert Redford and Jane Fonda are a wondrously handsome couple in this classy adaptation of Neil Simon’s Broadway play. As newlyweds Paul and Corie Bratter they move into a creaky New York apartment where there’s much knockabout fun with the plumbing, mother-in-law Mildred Natwick and bohemian bore-next-door Charles Boyer. The perfect-couple image cracks like old plaster – for Corie, this marriage lark is a big adventure; for priggish lawyer Paul, more of a pain. Can he learn to cast off his inhibitions and walk barefoot in the park?Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (Tim Burton, 2007) 9pm, ITV2      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Johnny Depp in Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber Of Fleet Street. Photograph: Everett/REX/ShutterstockThe songs surprised many cinemagoers as the trailers had artfully disguised that this was, after all, a horror musical. But Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter, as Sweeney Todd and his pie-making Mrs Lovett, rip into the Sondheim tunes as impressively as Todd’s razor rips the throats of his customers. A tale of bloody revenge in a benighted London that’s right up Tim Burton’s alley.State of Play (Kevin Macdonald, 2009) 11.25pm, Sony Movie ChannelThe excellent BBC series gets an intelligent and gripping big-screen makeover, with a beefy, shaggy-haired Russell Crowe as old-school investigative journalist Cal McAffrey. The death of a political aide leads him and internet colleague Della (Rachel McAdams) into skulduggery in the higher echelons of Washington. Helen Mirren is an acerbic presence as Cal’s editor.Live sportSnooker: Players Championship 12.45pm, ITV4. Coverage of the concluding first-round matches from Llandudno.Champions League Football: Barcelona v Paris Saint-Germain 7pm, BT Sport 2. Expect Barcelona to be in all-out-attack mode as they tackle a 4-0 first-leg deficit.Test Cricket: New Zealand v South Africa 9.50pm, Sky Sports 2. The second day of the first Test in Dunedin.