I don’t want to bum anyone out here, but consider this a reminder that your life can be snatched away at any moment. Simple things, like crossing the road, idling under tree branches or a leisurely cycle on a warm summer’s day, all have the spectre of death hanging over them. It’s a lot to take in, I know. How you receive this information is really up to you, and a good measure of character to boot. Me, I’m seized by the horror of it all, like a pathetically fragile rabbit caught in the headlights of mortality and wondering whether there’s any point to anything if we never know when the end might come. It’s for these shook bunny nihilism reasons I try to avoid shows like An Hour To Save Your Life (Tuesday, 9pm, BBC2), now returning for a third series.This edition follows people like Julian, who fell off his bike and on to a cattle grid. Nothing to worry about there, you might think. You’d be wrong. An ordinary face/cattle grid collision resulted in Julian smashing out his bottom teeth, scraping off the flesh that keeps your face attached to your skull, tearing an artery to create a pool of congealing blood around his brain stem, and this reviewer abandoning a perfectly good corned beef and tomato sandwich. Some months after his accident, the camera crew that followed Julian off into the air ambulance pay him another visit. He is alive and recovering, which is great, but it would be remiss of me not to mention the elephant in the room – after an operation to relieve pressure on his brain, his head is now distinctly concave.An Hour to Save Your Life; School of Hard Sums – TV review Julian’s external injuries were horrific enough, but they can’t match the way your insides wile out in sticky medical situations. This is what medics have to battle against, in the terrifyingly short period of time when life can shrug its shoulders and mooch off into the abyss. While this programme swears blind “the golden hour” is its focus, it also encompasses the aftermath – the horror of your world turning in on itself after an awkward faceplant, bin-lorry collision or heart attack, as well as the unimaginable dedication that doctors, nurses and paramedics have to patching you up.Man’s humanity to man may be enough to make you stop and think, but it’s nothing compared to man’s humanity to dog. Also returning this week is The Supervet (Thursday, 8pm, Channel 4). Regular viewers will know that when he’s not glued to teeny animal defibrillators or crying “WE HAVE TO SAVE DESE GERBILS” the Supervet himself, Noel Fitzpatrick, is pioneering advances in veterinary medicine with technologies such as 3D printing and 3D milling. When Molly, a cavalier spaniel, comes in with a growth on her head, Supervet knows just what to do. He takes a mould of Molly’s head and then sets his team of bioengineers to making a replacement cranial patch for the skull he has to cut away.This, coincidentally, is a similar operation to the one Cattle Grid Jules needed. The only difference is that Molly has a daffy owner only too happy to part with thousands for a bit of 3D-printed dog skull, whereas Julian has only laborious physiotherapy to look forward to. Someone once said that when you bring a puppy home, you start the short countdown to heartbreak. The Supervet might not be able to stop this inconvenient little truth but he certainly makes it easier, one bionic skull-flap at a time.