Right now, Reprezent Radio is having a moment. Actually, it’s having several. The Brixton-based 24-hour underground music station, the only UK station presented by people under 25, is in the middle of a week-long collaboration with the xx. The xx are playing seven shows at the O2 Brixton Academy – from last Wednesday until next – and the band and their support acts, along with others, are using their Brixton week to create radio with Reprezent. So, on Wednesday afternoon, La (regular hosts of Sundays 6-8pm slot), interviewed the xx and Toddla T did a set on Jeremiah Asiamah’s show the same day. On Thursday, DJ Semtex, Basement Jaxx and Sampha all came in, with others, including J Hus, Novelist, Seb Chew, Goldie, Gilles Peterson and, weirdly, Channel 4 news anchor Jon Snow, scheduled to visit at various points. There’s not been much room to move in the station’s home – three storage containers in Pop Brixton’s startup community. Of the BBC’s Sound of 2017 poll, half of the longlisted artists came up through Reprezent It’s Thursday, and I am talking to Adrian Newman, Reprezent’s station manager. He’s explaining how the xx/Reprezent partnership came about. When the xx sorted out their Academy residency, they decided to involve the local community “to leave a trail of construction rather than destruction”. Thus, the shows’ guestlist profits will go to local charities, the merchandise is designed by Brixton youth social enterprise HustleBucks, and the xx and Reprezent have been making radio together. Though Reprezent’s usual sound is less indie than the xx – grime, house and hip-hop are its staples – it’s no surprise that the band approached the station. It’s a must-hear, with an ear-to-the-ground playlist that showcases artists even earlier than 1Xtra, and lively presenters that move on to great things. Jamz Supernova, now at 1Xtra, started here, as did Asian Network’s Mim Shaikh; Novelist had a show a few years back; Lady Leshurr, too. Annie Nightingale’s current producer came through Reprezent. Stormzy did his very first radio interview here, in 2014, with Gaby (Saturdays, 5-7pm).      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Richard Saker for the Observer“And he was so funny we gave him a monthly advice phone-in show,” says Newman. “It was Stormzy and Section Boyz. Their advice was terrible, but the show was really, really funny, and the phone lines would go off the charts…”Talent is what the station is about; whether on or off air, the station nurtures the young. Founded in 2003 by teacher and university radio expert Shane Carey, it grew out of a south London community radio project. In 2009, in response to a sudden increase in knife crime in Peckham, the station reinvented itself as Reprezent, a radio station entirely staffed by young people, and in 2011 it won its FM licence (it now broadcasts across London on FM and DAB). Newman, whose background is in music production and project management, joined around then and, in 2012, became station manager. His mission? “I wanted Reprezent to be a proper radio station and the rest of the radio world to see these young people as legit. Youth shouldn’t be seen as a weakness – it should be a positive.”Achieving such an ambition takes months of training and on- and off-air experience. There are 96 shows across the station and the young people working at Reprezent are required to do every part of a radio job: from booking guests to structuring a show, from running a desk to getting the best from an interviewee.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reprezent’s HQ are in the startup community of Pop Brixton. Photograph: Richard Saker for the Observer“Technical skills are important,” says Newman, “but the more important skills are the guest management, show management and time management. Those things are hard for some of our young people.” When it comes to presenting, he says, “you find that some just have this natural, glaring aptitude and enthusiasm, and natural intelligence for being able to do radio – there’s a kind of thinking on your feet element”. Others are more into the tech side. (If you’re thinking of applying, says Newman, “what a radio station always needs is people who want to work on the production side”.)As a listener, what I like is the music. Reprezent’s playlist is uniquely close to its young presenters and audience. Every two weeks, the 114 volunteers that work at the station are asked to send in at least one banging track and then Scully, one of the more experienced presenters, sorts through them all to get six tracks in various genres. More whittling goes on in a big station meeting, resulting in the freshest, most exciting music list that teenagers want to hear. The tracks really are very new: often when Reprezent’s playlist goes up on Twitter it results in tweets from artists along the lines of “Oh my God, this is the first time I’ve ever been playlisted!” Of the BBC’s Sound of 2017 poll, half of the longlisted artists came up through Reprezent. Plus, the sound is great. Newman’s music production background – he talks to me nerdily about a piece of kit – means that you can turn up a track on Reprezent without horrible distortion.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From left: Shemzy (presenter), Finn (producer), Sherelle (presenter), Adrian (station manager) and Scully (presenter). Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverI speak to some of the presenters. Melle Brown and Blue Canarinho, both music producers in their own right, do the weekday morning show, Brown & Blue: “It’s focused around bringing on acts in the soulful genre,” says Brown. “Even if it’s grime,” says Canarinho. Lorelle Lambert has been with the station for a long time: “Reprezent has probably been the only constant thing in my life.” She used to have a 7-9pm Saturday show and is now the station’s weekend manager, keeping presenters in line, checking that guests are prepped and ready to talk. Jodeci Chin presents The JC Show and is also a presenter for Link Up TV. “Reprezent takes young people from different walks of life, and it allows you just to be you,” she says. “So it’s fine to play the music you want to play, and you can like what you like and speak the way you want to speak. But if you do something that’s not the best, you will get pulled up on it, and you will learn. They challenge you to be better.”Listening to her, and to Reprezent at any time, you feel that this is a lesson that could benefit many long-established presenters and producers in mainstream radio. This week is a special one, but even on an ordinary day’s broadcasting, the station sounds unbelievably bright and focused, the presenters’ musical knowledge and expertise belying their youth. It’s a joy to listen. The xx have brought the spotlight, but Reprezent shines anyway.