The Winter’s Tale was a suggestion that came to me from Nick Hytner. I said to him I’d really like to choreograph a Shakespeare and all the obvious ones have been done. He said: “Well, The Winter’s Tale has proved really challenging for directors. I’ve got a feeling it might work for dance. I think some of the problems may sort themselves out if there’s no ­one actually talking!”Which is a funny thing to say about a Shakespeare play, but it is considered a problem play. The first scenes are incredibly emotional and rich in tragedy – the death of a child, the supposed death of a queen, an inexplicable bout of jealousy in a seemingly good king – and then you go to this bucolic, glorious land, Bohemia, and it doesn’t match up. It feels like all the characters you’ve invested in go away. I think directors have a hard time going from tragedy to comedy and then the two worlds colliding. That was my experience of seeing the plays, anyway.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Watch Steven McRae and Sarah Lamb in the ballet’s second actI read The Winter’s Tale and struggled with it, because it’s not an easy read. I saw three productions and was still a little reticent, and then I got together with the composer Joby Talbot and spent a weekend in New York sifting through the play, saying, “Well, maybe if we took out this character, or this subplot …” and ended up with a narrative that’s still quite complex but full of strong, physical, dramatic beats, which is what you look for in a ballet.A full-­length narrative ballet relies on two major things: the size of the emotions to be communicated, and the ability to do that within a framework that presents enough opportunity for pure dance, for group dancing from the corps de ballet. The nice thing is that the Bohemia scenes can become a celebration of life through movement, just joyous dancing with some of the story woven through.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Edward Watson (Leontes) and Lauren Cuthbertson (Hermione) in The Winter’s Tale. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThe challenge of creating a Shakespearean ballet is making sure you’re still tuned in to the poetry. There are some wonderful images in the text – like the drinking of the spider – and they were tiny clues I would go back and refer to. You have to try to feel how he draws his characters through the language and fuse the imagery of the writing with the choreography. A really good dancer-­actor has to feel the character from within and somehow express that outwardly. And it’s my job to find the right movement for them to do that, unlocking the character.The play contains the famous stage direction “Exit, pursued by a bear”. I always knew that I wanted it to be a poetic representation. I’d seen one version that was very much a man in a bear suit, which is always laughable, however realistic the bear suit is. Another one I’d seen was at the RSC, where all the books fell off the bookshelves and the bear was this giant puppet of books, which was cool, but almost too much like fantasy, like Harry Potter. I wanted to find a way that was fluid and dancer-like and had the right kind of language for a ballet. I wanted the bear to feel like it was coming out of the ocean. I spoke to the puppeteer Basil Twist, who ended up helping me. We have a beautiful massive silk that’s painted with the animal on it: the silk rolls forward like a wave, rears up like a giant tsunami … and you see the bear.The Winter’s Tale is at the Royal Opera House, London, from 12 April to 10 June.