How did you decide that you wanted to set Rebel of the Sands in the desert?I definitely have a soft spot for dramatic environments – sweeping desert plains and harsh ice kingdoms and tangled jungles – in general. I think they add to the story in a way a more temperate environment doesn’t necessarily. Choosing the desert in this case sort of came about from an inevitable combination of ideas.The very first scene I ever wrote is what is now the end of chapter three and beginning of chapter four. It was barely a fragment of an idea at the time, just a scene that I envisioned of a boy rushing into a convenience store, and the girl working there hiding him from some authority figure. It’s a pretty vague idea and it’s missing a lot of pieces, not least of which are “what is he running from” and “why does she chose to hide him?”. But what it’s less obviously missing is any kind of setting or context. It could happen anywhere from Victorian London to a high-tech planet in the distant future and be the same scene. That is until you put it on paper and start to be forced to build the world. As I jotted it down I had the character of the girl glance out the window at the disturbance and in that moment had to make a decision about what she saw, and it wound up being a desert road.Free read! Rebel of the Sands by Alwyn Hamilton Then there was a separate idea to write about a sharpshooter girl, who clearly belonged in a Wild West type story to start with. Those kinds of stories of gunslingers and bandits always play out across a landscape marked by sand and scrubby desert plants. A tough environment that makes tougher people still.And then finally when I decided to cross the Wild West with the Arabian Nights the desert was a starting point for that. Both the Wild West of the US and the arid Arabian planes share this environment, and it was making this connection, at midnight, that kicked off the whole idea that became Rebel of the Sands.What is your writing process? I draft quickly and sloppily and then edit slowly. I mean, before I even get to putting fingers to keyboard I spend a lot of time putting the story together in my head. Usually that starts with various ideas for scenes I think would be fun or dramatic (like the boy rushing into the store) and then slowly pulling them together into a plot and figuring out how they all link up. There’s nothing harder for me than trying to write without knowing where I’m going or what I’m working towards.Then when I’m drafting I just spill out words in as coherent an order as I can, focusing more on speed and getting it down than form. I draft so quickly in fact that if I name a minor character and then forget what I have named them, instead of scrolling a page up to look for the name I will just put in a different name at random. Part of editing then becomes figuring out if Hamid, Tamid and Farroukh are three different characters or three names for the same one.Webchat: the world of fantasy fiction - as it happened Once I have all the words down I sort of treat that like the scaffolding of a draft. I go through and often realize I can cut things or combine two scenes, or that chapter 1 was written with an idea that morphed by the time I got to the end, so fix all that. And then it’s a question for me of just going through and getting the actual words themselves right, since things like descriptions and emotions often get glossed over in a first draft in favour of getting the plot pillars into the right places. The only thing that I think stays as the single thread connecting it from the beginning of the process to the end is the characterization.What are you working on at the moment?At the moment I’m working on the sequel of Rebel of the Sands. It’s the second book of what will be a trilogy over all. It doesn’t have a title yet but it does have 80,000 other words. I’m also occasionally cheating on Rebel of the Sands 2 with another book idea, though mostly only in my mind rather than on the page. It’s still very much in the “daydreaming scenes” stage of the story building.What books have influenced your writing?There are a lot of current books which I think made me realise it was possible to write YA fantasy and how that might look. But the biggest ones that have stuck with me are the ones I read as a child. Tamora Pierce’s Alanna stands out, the story of a heroine who cross-dresses to escape the sexism keeping her from becoming a knight. Rebel of the Sands is also hugely indebted to The Blue Sword by Robin McKinley. I think part of the reason I love desert landscapes is that book. Then there’s Mercedes Lackey’s wonderful Valdemar Series, which had so many wonderful examples of women driving the story it definitely imprinted on me.Women in fantasy – the children's books podcast The cover of your new book is beautiful. Did you have any input in its creation?I actually actively avoided trying to imagine a cover while I was writing or even after it sold, because I knew if I got stuck in an idea of what it should look like I’d risk being disappointed by the final result if it went a different direction. Fortunately I absolutely love my cover, I think my publishers did a fantastic job with it. An it looks even better in the flesh with the gorgeous gold foiling.Did you base the revolution in the novel on any particular historical revolution?The biggest inspiration for Ahmed’s rebellion is actually 18th and 19th century France. I grew up in France and this period of history was a huge part of our school curriculum at school. What sticks with me from that is how we were given a more complex understanding of the French Revolution it as we went on. In primary school we learned that the King was an absolute monarch and evilly abusing his power, and the revolution brought republican ideals and freedom. By the time we got to Lycee the difficulty of reconciling the ideologies of the French Revolution with the violence that came with it had become more apparent. It was both a popular revolution and one that came from a very intellectual place. And as much as we may celebrate it, 14 July 1789 didn’t mark a change overnight. France basically spent the next century going through regime changes. Anyone who has seen Les Miserables will know about the failed June Rebellion, for instance. All of these uprisings are marked with that same idealism holding hands with a huge amount of violence, and the romantic idea of an idea worth fighting for, and even dying for, muddled in there too. This is what Ahmed’s uprising in Rebel of the Sands looks like to me as well. It’s grounded in the very pure desire to make a better, more equal world, one that is worth giving your life for. But the reality of it is that there will be bloodshed on both sides to get it there, and that difficult choices, which aren’t necessarily in line with the ideals of the rebellion have to be made on the way.To what extent are the stories of Djinni in the novel made up solely by you? Are they partly based on traditional myths?The Arabian Nights: the last set of fairytales that just might have a chance of being real The Djinn appear in a lot of Eastern culture, from the Thousand and One Nights stories to Biblical texts. A little bit like our Western stories of spirits or fairies there always seems to be some elements which all the myths have in common, but also points where they diverge. For my purposes it was a question of using the existing mythology as my base and then picking and choosing which stories to take their powers and weaknesses and place in the world from. And then some of it I invented or pulled from non-Eastern myths. Iron having an ill effect on magical beings is much more associated with Western mythology (horseshoes bring luck for instance because the iron supposed wards off evil spirits and in Italy they touch iron for luck instead of knocking on wood). And the half-mortal half-Djinni children who have superhuman powers is more influenced by the Greek demigods than it is by the way Eastern mythology sets of up Djinni families.Kindle or paperback?How fantasy can inspire us to live in the real world Paperback. It’s so deeply impractical and I have three bookshelves full of double stacked books, which has made moving house difficult every single time. But I’m just so used to reading in that format and I love the comfort of having a book with me, as well as having something I can loan to friends if I want. Plus, I will be much more likely to impulse buy a book I see in a bookshop. But I have been getting used to reading on my iPad lately now that I’m lucky enough to get sent more advance copies of books in electronic format.Who is your favourite character out of Rebel of the Sands?I love Amani, my protagonist. She is without question the main reason that the book has reached the place it has. I didn’t really know who my main character was the entire time I was envisioning the book in my head, beyond that she was a sharpshooter, and that’s an attribute, not a personality. And then I wrote that first few lines of the book, which are almost the same in the finished version as they were in my very first draft. The part that stuck out to me when I wrote it was “I wasn’t up to no good, but I wasn’t exactly up to no bad either” because I immediately knew exactly who my protagonist was. Impulsive, and reckless, and decisive and not looking for trouble but walking straight into it anyway. It meant that any time I was stuck and needed to know what Amani would do next, I thought What’s the first thing that comes to mind? and then have her do that, whether it was smart or stupid, because she’s such a leap-then-look character. Knowing that drove the whole story forwards more easily than anything else I’d ever written before and Amani is without question, of any character I have ever written, the one I know the best.Having said that, I’d be lying if I said I didn’t love Shazad. I love writing for her, I loved building her backstory as a character and her relationship with Amani. I loved getting to have a character who has a lot of strength without having to stop being a girl and who is confident without being obnoxious or arrogant. She might be my actual favourite. Don’t tell the other characters.Can you tell us what Amani’s real name is?I can’t, partly because Rebel of the Sands 2 is still a work in progress and nothing is final until the book is sitting on shelves, so her name might yet change. But I can tell you that you will find out her real name in the second book.How did you come up with the title of your book?It was very much a group effort. I am notoriously bad at titling things. Whenever I’m drafting I give the story a bad placeholder title that just describes what it is. I was looking through folders of old projects the other day and I have a story file “Necromancers and Corsets” and one just called “Curse”. The folder for Rebel of the Sands is still called “Wild West Arabian Nights” as it was when I drafted it. But it went through quite a few different titles. I queried my agent with “Creatures of Smokeless Fire” and it went on submission and sold as “More Gunpowder than Girl”.Then the brainstorming for a real title began and it went through a few more, including “Dustwalk” and “Miraji Rebel”. I was deeply unhelpful during this time and kept suggesting Taylor Swift songs as titles. While I stand by that “I Knew You Were Trouble” accurately represents the book, I’m glad we didn’t go with that. Finally my publishers landed on Rebel of the Sands which is perfect for evoking the book and hinting at some of the twists without giving too much away. And because I tend to abbreviate it to Rebel, it also means I get to send professional emails entitled things like “Rebel Accounting” and “Rebel Appointment” which delights me.Rebel of the Sands is currently our Guardian teen book club choice.