A letter written by AA Milne in which he outlines his growing struggle with pacifism in the face of the rise of Hitler in the 1930s is to go on display for the first time.The Imperial War Museum in London, which marks its centenary this year, has announced it is to stage the first major UK exhibition exploring the anti-war movement.The Milne letter has been retrieved from its vast collection of documents and reflects the conflict felt by many pacifists who had experienced the horrors of the first world war and earnestly hoped “never again”.“It encapsulates the moral dilemma that a lot of pacifists had in the interwar period,” said curator Matt Brosnan. “Milne opposed war but increasingly saw Hitler and the Nazis as an evil that had to be met by force.”In his letter, Milne declared himself a “practical pacifist”, writing: “I believe that war is a lesser evil than Hitlerism, I believe that Hitlerism must be killed before war can be killed.”It was not the first time Milne had struggled with his conscience. He was a pacifist leading up to the first world war but signed up voluntarily and was offered a commission by the Royal Warwickshire Regiment.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rally in Hyde Park (1980) © Edward Barber. Photograph: IWM/Edward BarberSent to the western front, he soon encountered the grim realities of the war, witnessing his best friend Ernest Pusch being blown to pieces as he was settling down for his tea. A few days later, Ernest’s brother Frederick was killed by a German sniper.Further horrors were to come, including an attack which led to the deaths of about 60 soldiers in Milne’s battalion and more than 100 wounded.It changed his view of the war, as he later wrote: “It makes me almost physically sick of that nightmare of mental and moral degradation.”It emerged in 2013 that Milne was also recruited to a secret propaganda unit after he was invalided out of the front because of trench foot. Classified documents found in a old trunk show that he was part of the shortlived MI7b which worked with writers to present a positive version of the war to those at home.Milne was discharged from the army in 1919 and began his career as a children’s author, leading to the publication of Winnie the Pooh in 1926. He published his famous denunciation of war, Peace With Honour, in 1934, in which he wrote: “Because I want everybody to think (as I do) that war is poison, and not (as so many think) an over-strong, extremely unpleasant medicine.”The Milne letter is among a number of rare items going on display for the IWM exhibition. There will also be first world war artworks Wire (1918) by Paul Nash and Paths of Glory (1917) by CRW Nevinson.The show will span the full century and include the original sketches of the nuclear disarmament symbol made by Gerald Holtom for the first Aldermaston march in 1958.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Kennardphillipps photomontage Photo Op of Tony Blair taking a selfie against the backdrop of a devastating explosion. Photograph: IWM/ReutersFrom the more recent past, the exhibition will include the original  “blood splat” artwork and posters which David Gentleman designed for the Stop the War Coalition; and Peter Kennard and Cat Phillipps’s photomontage Photo Op (2007) which depicts Tony Blair taking a selfie against the backdrop of a devastating explosion.Brosnan said the exhibition would chart the peaks and troughs of the anti-war movement, with one of those peaks being the 1980s and the establishment of the Greenham Common women’s peace camp in 1981.Some people might be surprised that the Imperial War Museum, well stocked as it is with many weapons of war, should be turning its gaze on pacifism.But Brosnan said it was a show the institution had wanted to do for a long time. “Right from the museum’s creation in 1917, the place has always been about looking at conflict from different angles and all perspectives. “Even in 1917, while the first world war was ongoing, the idea was that it wasn’t purely about military effort and military endeavour, it was looking at the totality of war and civilian participation.”Brosnan said he has been cheered by the many responses he has had while preparing for the show. “Most people have found this is a natural topic for us and have not been hostile to what they think the museum represents,” he said. “I had been anticipating a certain amount of potential hostility from campaigners, particularly people maybe active in the 80s at Greenham Common … but the feedback has been really positive.”• People Power: Fighting for Peace is at IWM London between 23 March and 28 August.