In the wake of Frances Hardinge’s Costa win and the news that sales of children’s books account for more than 30% of the book buying market, a campaign has been launched by children’s author SF Said to increase their media coverage. Great!#CoverKidsBooks launched this week with what it calls “the facts”: that children’s books enjoy just 3% of the media coverage of books, despite that 30% market share.Puzzled? More like baffled, in my case, when I looked at the figures #CoverKidsBooks uses to support this assertion. Its case is based on one month’s analysis of print reviews in weekend newspapers. Just reviews, nothing else. In print media, nowhere else. On weekends. Forget interviews, news stories and features and any format other than the traditional review. Forget the online world with its wealth of book sites and blogs. Oh, and the month in question was August, when papers traditionally reduce their pagination.Such a narrow focus seems perverse. Why the obsession with traditional reviews in print media? The campaign harks back to a golden age of the 1970s when papers such as the TLS published dedicated supplements of children’s books (something which, incidentally, the Guardian still does every June for Independent Booksellers’ Week, and the Times still does online, though neither with the frequency of the TLS). But newspapers were larger in every way in the 70s and 80s. The internet hadn’t happened.According to the campaign, “#CoverKidsBooks believes it’s time for newspapers to make a serious commitment to covering children’s literature again.” And this is exactly what the Guardian has been doing. In 2011, with Guardian literary editor Claire Armitstead, I set up the Guardian children’s books website, which I now co-edit with Emily Drabble. So that’s one full-time post filled by two experienced journalists that is entirely dedicated to covering children’s books, along with a one-­day a week contributing editor and all the admin and other support that such a site requires.The Guardian children’s books site has thousands of young members, 200,000 unique visitors a week and well over a million page views a month. Alongside interviews, features, galleries and much more, it publishes between three and five children’s book reviews every single day. They are written by the very people whom the books are written for: children and teenagers, a readership that is far more likely to look for book recommendations online, in a lively interactive space, than open the pages of a newspaper. And a readership that, until such websites and blogs, had no outlet at all for sharing their views on the books they read.“With over 10,000 children’s books published a year in the UK, unless children’s literature is properly reviewed, most people will never know where to start,” says #CoverKidsBooks.I suspect that, along with asking in bookshops and libraries, most people will look online, just as they do these days with most other aspects of life, and find the plethora of exciting kids’ books coverage that’s happening there. It’s a shame that #CoverKidsBooks didn’t do the same.More coverage of children’s literature, including print­-based reviews, is something to fight for. But to base a whole campaign on the aim of increasing coverage in a sector that is inexorably decreasing, and to ignore entirely the sector in which it is flourishing, feels like a sadly unimaginative way to approach the wildly creative “beautiful jungle” of children’s books.