It is two years to the day since David Jubb was on a train, hours from London, and got a phone call saying the fire alarms had gone off at the Battersea Arts Centre. Everyone had been evacuated and there was nothing to worry about.However, by the time the artistic director got a second phone call from his deputy, voice shaking, saying there really was a fire, he was already picking up shocked tweets and the first images of the column of black smoke, and soon of flames leaping from the roof of the Grade II*-listed Victorian building.Two years later every usable part of the building is buzzing with life, the public is being invited to contribute ideas for the Phoenix season that will mark the reopening of the venue’s grand hall next year, and a major fund-raising auction is planned for the autumn.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Jubb, the Battersea Arts Centre’s artistic director. Photograph: David Levene/the GuardianThe Turner Prize-winning potter Grayson Perry, who once had a studio in the basement, has already made his offering for the auction: a sculpture of his beloved childhood bear and motorcycling companion, Alan Measles, standing in the Battersea entrance under the joyful banner “Fucking Art Centre”.The BAC has just got planning permission, with the blessing of Historic England, for an imaginative scheme by Haworth Tompkins architects, which was already several years into a major restoration of the entire building. The new interior will keep the bizarrely beautiful scorched and charred wall surfaces, and replace the coved ceiling with suspended delicate wooden tracery, evoking the original ornate plasterwork but allowing access for lighting and scenery rigs for the first time.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Fire-damaged scene under the balcony of the grand hall of Battersea Arts Centre. Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   West grand hall corridor leading to the Octagonal Hall. Textures of the fire-charred walls will be preserved as a visible legacy of the fire. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianSince myriad actors, artists and directors in the UK – and far beyond – have worked at Battersea, spectacular pledges are coming in for the autumn auction, including an acting workshop with Toby Jones, and backstage tours and show tickets with Emma Rice at the Globe and Rufus Norris at the National Theatre.Back in March 2015 Jubb thought he was watching the entire building burning to the ground. “It was like something out of a science-fiction film, watching it unfold on my little phone screen: I couldn’t quite believe what I was seeing,” he recalled. “This building is so well known and so well loved that the news literally spread across the world – there was a second wave of tweets when Australia woke up and heard the news.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Looking through a doorway that leads to the area under the Grand Hall balcony. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianBy the time he reached Battersea the fire was visible across a swath of south London and the destruction of the beautiful 1893 grand hall was obvious – a beloved space for everything from concerts to political rallies and charity bazaars, even before the old town hall became an arts centre in 1979.However, the fire had stopped dead at the grand hall’s inner doors: two-thirds of the building was intact. There were black smoke stains on the words “the purest treasure mortal times afford is spotless reputation” in the motto running round the octagonal domed entrance hall. Glasses of gin and tonic were still on the bar tables waiting for the drinkers who had been turned out into the street.“It was the eeriest sight,” Jubb recalled, playing a few notes on the piano, which survived with no more than a few heat blisters in the varnish, “it truly was like the Mary Celeste.”The following night they got a show on in the front of the building: “it seemed important to keep the heart beating,” Jubb said. Three days later, when they had lost hope, Pluto, the theatre cat – originally from Battersea Dogs and Cats Home – was found skulking in the basement, which had been flooded by a burst hydrant: they had to break a window and lure him out of the still-smouldering building.Offers of help poured in. A man from three streets away volunteered his firm at cost for the critical job of propping the surviving end walls that were literally swaying in the wind. The cafe across the road refused to charge for a crisis planning meeting that had taken up most of its tables for six hours. The artist Jake Tilson went into the ruins with a hard hat and a camera, and personally salvaged hundreds of objects from Victorian floor tiles to screens from the stage lighting – made into a beautiful limited edition book, The Phoenix of Lavender Hill, for the restoration fund.Jubb and his colleagues are not just sentimental about the grand hall – even though thousands of people including the artistic director himself were married there – they really need their biggest earning space back. The building was fully insured, but they were only covered for two years’ loss of revenue. “When I give talks about the fire to people there is one urgent lesson I want to pass on,” Jubb said. “Insure for five years’ loss of revenue.”Find out more about BAC’s Phoenix season