In her BBC sitcom Absolutely Fabulous, Jennifer Saunders was never slow to rope in famous chums to add an in-jokey authenticity to her portrait of the fag-end of the high life. The forthcoming movie version promises to be a similar model of celebrity democracy, with a cast that runs from A-list to Z-list. Where else would you find Kate Moss rubbing shoulders with Judith Chalmers? Or Alexa Chung and Daisy Lowe cosying up to Christopher Biggins? If a bomb had dropped on set, it would have been goodbye to Hello! magazine. Heat might have frozen over.No big-budget comedy is complete until the producers have milked their contacts book dry for star cameos. Overkill was part of the gag in the third Austin Powers film (Tom Cruise, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kevin Spacey, Steven Spielberg) and the second Anchorman (Will Smith, Marion Cotillard, Liam Neeson, Kanye West). But this trick had worn thin by the time of Zoolander 2. A devilishly funny opening sequence shows Justin Bieber being gunned down; he reaches for his phone, takes a selfie, selects a filter, posts it on Instagram – and then expires. The remainder of the film suggested that its makers had inserted a star cameo whenever inspiration was flagging. Unfortunately, Anna Wintour and Susan Boyle proved to be no substitute for decent jokes.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   There were so many celebrities in the new Absolutely Fabulous film that if a bomb had dropped on set, it would have been goodbye to Hello! magazine … Joanna Lumley and Jennifer Saunders. Photograph: Fox Searchlight Pictures/PhotoshotThe idea of the celebrity appearance as a punchline in itself originated on television in the late 1980s with The Dame Edna Experience, in which real stars were grilled and gushed over by Barry Humphries’ acidic alter ego. To squirm on Dame Edna’s sofa, as the likes of Germaine Greer, Mel Gibson and Sean Connery did, was to advertise oneself as a good sport. The same was true of anyone who appeared on The Larry Sanders Show, starring and created by the late Garry Shandling, which went behind the scenes of a fictional late-night chat show. The idea caught on, with A-listers mocking themselves on Curb Your Enthusiasm, Extras, 30 Rock and Life’s Too Short.The 2013 film This Is the End squeezed abundant laughs from the sight of stars either parodying their public persona (James Franco coming over all bromantic with Seth Rogen), or going against the grain of it (that nice Michael Cera playing himself as a coked-up sex pest). But if modern movies rely too heavily on the celebrity cameo, blame Judd Apatow. He began his career as a writer on The Larry Sanders Show and now fills his movies (such as Knocked Up and Trainwreck) with so many pop-cultural cameos that his work will be virtually meaningless to audiences within 10 years.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Absolutely Fabulous: The Movie trailerCelebrity walk-ons used to mean something. In Annie Hall, Woody Allen silences a bore who has been pontificating about Marshall McLuhan by producing the real McLuhan out of thin air. (The media theorist was Allen’s third choice after Fellini and Buñuel turned him down.) A year earlier in 1976, Mel Brooks’s Silent Movie featured the wittiest cameo in film history when it gave the only spoken word in the script (“Non!”) to the mime artist Marcel Marceau.Cameos don’t always have to be played for laughs. Buster Keaton is poignant as one of the “waxworks” from the silent era playing cards in Sunset Boulevard. And the cameo-as-homage has a noble history. Jean-Luc Godard doffed his cap to Sam Fuller (director of Shock Corridor) and Fritz Lang (Metropolis, M) by casting them in Pierrot Le Fou and Le Mépris respectively. Jonathan Demme repaid his mentor, the B-movie king Roger Corman, with cameos in most of his movies, including The Silence of the Lambs. And it was splendidly perverse of John Landis to put highbrow auteurs such as Gillo Pontecorvo (The Battle of Algiers) and Costa-Gavras (Z) in his dumbest movie, The Stupids. Those sorts of cameos blur the line between viewer and trainspotter: identify each face and your cinephile credentials will be incontestable.  Benedict Cumberbatch and Ben Stiller in Zoolander 2. Photograph: handoutAt the bottom of the pile is the vanity cameo, which serves no purpose other than to flatter the subject. In this category are those US TV presenters such as Larry King, Conan O’Brien and Jay Leno, who spend more time playing themselves than being themselves. Salman Rushdie and Jeffrey Archer looked spectacularly awkward in the challenging roles of Salman Rushdie and Jeffrey Archer in Bridget Jones’s Diary.At least a cameo is small enough to be surgically removed if necessary. The Spice Girls’ movie, Spice World, underwent a last-minute snip when unsavoury revelations emerged about one of its guest stars, Gary Glitter. Meanwhile, look closely at Casino Royale and you will see Richard Branson being stopped at airport security. Unless you’re watching it on British Airways, that is, which carries a version on its in-flight entertainment system from which their competitor’s cameo is mysteriously absent.