It may well be “hasta la vista, baby” for Arnold Schwarzenegger’s Terminator: the long-running science-fiction franchise is reported to have been cancelled. According to the New York Daily News, Paramount, which holds the rights to the franchise, has declined to bring back the sunglasses-wearing cyborg for future instalments of the series.“It is over for The Terminator and Arnold,” a source told the paper. “The studio has taken the sequel off the production slate completely, meaning there is no preproduction or any plans for another sequel. The talent had been offered long-term deals, but this is not happening.”The most recent film in the Terminator series, Genisys, was released in 2015 and struggled at the US box office. However, it fared better internationally, particularly in China, and eventually took $400m worldwide. But that international success may not have been enough to save the franchise. A sequel to the film was removed from Paramount’s 2017 release schedule last year, and now looks to have been shelved.“The Genisys movie was seen as a way of reviving [the franchise], but the critics were not happy and somehow the studio bosses fell out of love with making more, even though they made huge profits,” the source added.Schwarzenegger first played the Terminator (T-800), a cyborg sent back in time to kill a woman pregnant with the leader of a future resistance movement, in the 1984 film of the same name. The role made Schwarzenegger a global star, and he went on to star in two sequels, Judgment Day (1991) and Rise of the Machines (2001). He had a small cameo in the widely panned fourth instalment Salvation in 2009, before returning as lead for Genisys. There were reports in January that James Cameron is preparing a reboot of the films when he regains partial rights to the franchise in 2019. It is unclear how Paramount’s reported decision will affect Cameron’s proposed update. The director is currently working on four sequels to his fantasy film Avatar.The Terminator is not the only Schwarzenegger-related franchise to have stalled. Earlier this month the actor and former politician announced that he would leave NBC talent show The Celebrity Apprentice, which he hosted following Donald Trump’s departure to run for president. Ratings dipped during Schwarzenegger’s tenure, which he blamed on the “baggage” of Trump’s unpopularity. Trump, who is still listed as an executive producer on the show, responded by claiming that Schwarzenegger had been “fired by pathetic ratings”.