200525 April Keep being rung by journalists asking how I intend to vote, information which I don’t divulge not because I’ve got any principled notions to do with the secret ballot but because I like disappointing newspapers. If I were a voter in the Blackburn constituency my vote would go to Craig Murray, the ex-ambassador to Uzbekistan, who resigned from the diplomatic service over the foreign secretary’s refusal to discount information obtained by torture in the prisons of Uzbekistan, a decision that means torture is likely to continue. If there is a market for the information why should it stop? Mr [Jack] Straw claims to have lost sleep over his decision. Some of the tortured will have lost sleep, too, but that’s because they will have lost fingernails first. I suppose I despise Straw more than Blair, thinking, perhaps wrongly, that he is capable of better.8 July Shocked that after the initial horror my first reaction to the Tube and bus bombings should be “How convenient” and at how little of what we are told I now believe. As Blair lines up in front of his sombre colleagues at Gleneagles it’s hard not to think how useful this outrage is and how effectively it silences the critics. And as Bush and Blair trot out their vapid platitudes about “the War on Terror”, give or take a few score of dead it’s hard not to think things are well under control. No one as yet suggests or speculates that this new front in “the War on Terror” might have been avoided had the country not gone to war in the first place. Only yesterday the Guardian reprinted an LRB piece revealing how Iraq had been fleeced of billions of dollars via Paul Bremer’s so-called aid programme – the figures those of US auditors whose reports have passed without notice. Except that they’re maybe even now being read by some burning-eyed youth planning more and worse.Alan Bennett at 80: everything but a national treasure 24 September Good à propos Kate Moss’s alleged cocaine abuse to be reminded of the cowardice of commerce. The Swedish firm H&M, one of several fearless enterprises that have distanced themselves from Ms Moss, declares itself proud to be in the forefront of corporate morality. That most of its clothes are said to be made dirt cheap in China is beside the point.Actually I wouldn’t know Kate Moss if I fell over her.18 October Robert Hanks, the radio critic of the Independent, remarks that personally he can have too much of Alan Bennett. I wonder how he thinks I feel.20067 March A wet morning and we go down to Camden Town Hall for the formalities – I’d hardly say solemnisation – of our civil partnership agreement. The two registrars aren’t too gushy. The only droll note when one of them talks about us “now embarking on our life together”, whereas that started 14 or at any rate nine years ago. Afterwards we adjourn for coffee to Villandry which is nice and easy.2 September Making the supper and idly listening to Radio 4’s Saturday Review, the only speaker I recognise is PD James and none of it anything to do with me until some Scottish woman in the course of telling off the novelist Mark Haddon accuses him of “Alan Bennettish tweeness”. It’s not a serious injury to my self-esteem but rather as if someone passing me in the street has just turned back to give me a flying kick up the bum and then gone on their way. I hope for some mild objection from one of the other participants but none is forthcoming so perhaps I’m now tweeness’s accepted measure.20079 May Seventy-three, which I find almost inconceivable, while feeling every minute of it. For my birthday R gives me two lovely tiles, a boy walking and pointing and another of a gardener, the book on Edwin Smith, which I expected and a group of tiles with a primitive design of a cat framed and supposed to be 19th-century Dutch but it could easily be a century earlier – and will suit the kitchen (where we already have a cow) very well.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The Habit of Art, Alan Bennett’s play about WH Auden and Benjamin Britten, at the Lyttelton Theatre, London, 2009. Photograph: Geraint Lewis/Rex Features16 May And this morning I make what I hope is a breakthrough with the Auden/Britten play when it occurs to me that what Britten would be coming to see Auden about is not just to say farewell or talk over old times but to ask him to do the libretto for Death in Venice. It brings all the difficulties they had with each other into focus and also gives the first part of the play with the two boys more of a point. But it’s difficult – and I dare not start reading about it, still less listening to the opera. It’s one of the plays that I shall have to write before I write it – or at any rate do the research for it. But go down to Parkway shopping for supper feeling so alive again and so not old and with that feeling I rarely get nowadays, of “I hope I will be given the time to do this.”28 November R is reading Brideshead Revisited for the first time, my browning-at-the-edges Penguin that must be 50 years old.“Tell me,” he says plaintively, “is it meant to be snobbish or am I missing the point?”Which is better than me who, reading it for the first time, in 1957, say, didn’t spot the snobbery at all – I just took it as an entirely proper account of a world from which I was (rightly) excluded. Though I think I sympathised with Hooper (as Waugh probably did, too, not being much of a soldier himself).20 December I seem to have banged on this year rather more than usual. I make no apology for that, nor am I nervous that it will make a jot of difference. I shall still be thought to be kindly, cosy and essentially harmless. I am in the pigeon-hole marked “no threat” and did I stab Judi Dench with a pitchfork I should still be a teddy bear.20084 February More senior moments. I can’t find my pullover and don’t like the one I’m wearing because it has several moth holes. “I had another pullover,” I say to R. “I was wearing it this morning.”“You still are. You’ve put the other one on top of it.”Bike over to Gloucester Crescent and leave the bike there while I walk round to M&S. People often smile at me, but this afternoon nearly everyone smiles. It’s only when I come back to Parkway to have my hair cut that I realise I’m still wearing my crash helmet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Sergeant and Kristina Rihanoff onStrictly Come Dancing. Photograph: Guy Levy/BBC20 November John Sergeant retires from the Strictly Come Dancing competition. I have no views on this but, having worked with Sergeant on a BBC comedy series in 1966, I can truthfully say that whatever he knows about rhythm and dance (ie nothing) he learned from me.200920 February It’s years since I was on Desert Island Discs but these days I’d find it much easier to choose the eight records I don’t want than those that I do. I don’t ever want to hear again:Mussorgsky Pictures at an ExhibitionRimsky-Korsakov ScheherazadeSchubert Fifth SymphonyBeethoven “Pastoral” SymphonyMozart Symphony No 40And it isn’t that I’ve heard them too often. I just don’t care for any of them.14 September John Bird calls to ask where I found the phrase “the habit of art”. I came across it in Mystery and Manners, a book of the incidental writings of Flannery O’Connor: “The scientist has the habit of science, the artist the habit of art.” John, who is more widely (and rigorously) read than I am, had come across the phrase in the correspondence between Stravinsky and Jacques Maritain in the 1920s, making him think it came from St Thomas Aquinas. Since Flannery O’Connor was nothing if not Catholic that might be the link. I tell John the story of Dudley Moore and me seeing Stravinsky and his wife Vera in the Hotel Pierre in New York in 1963, saying how the name Vera has always seemed to me to humanise Stravinsky. “Not so much as Stockhausen,” says John. “His wife’s name was Doris.”8 November On the front cover of the Observer Lewis Morley’s photograph of me walking along the beach at Brighton in 1961. It’s the only photograph I’ve ever had taken where aged 26 I could almost fancy myself. My look is both of yearning and disquiet and calls up the lines from Henry IV Part 2 that Hector quotes in the film of The History Boys.The happiest youth, viewing his progress through,What perils past, what crosses to ensue,Would shut the book, and sit him down and die.20102 May Several of the obituaries of Alan Sillitoe who died last week mention how, when as a child he was being hit by his father, his mother would beg: “Not on his head. Not on his head.” My father was a mild man and seldom hit my brother or me but when he did my mother would make the same anguished plea. “Not on their heads, Dad.” It’s a natural enough entreaty, though one that might be taken to have premonitory undertones: if these small boys were ever to climb out of this working-class kitchen and make something of themselves a good, undamaged head was what they were going to need.28 September One drawback of writing about Auden is that if one does hit on something striking to say or turn a nice phrase it’s assumed by the audience that it was Auden who wrote it, the text just taken to be joined-up Wystan. Of course this works both ways and critics in particular are, I think, nervous of taking exception to stuff that I say in case I’m actually quoting the poet.20119 March I sometimes write stuff down because I don’t think I will hit on the right word again: “A man walks up and down the pavement opposite communing with himself but actually on his mobile.”“Communing” is the (fairly ordinary) word I’m uncertain of coming up with again.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The aftermath of the riots in Tottenham, London, 2011. Photograph: Lewis Whyld/PA8 August It is the day after the Tottenham riots and waiting for a prescription in the pharmacy I find that though it’s only four o’clock it’s already closing, with boards being put up against the windows and the nice young counter assistant, the daughter of the pharmacist who did Talking Heads for her O-levels, hopes that I will be going straight home. For my part I’ve been looking round the shop to see what would come to hand should rioters burst in from the (utterly peaceful) High Street, deciding that something from a tub of walking sticks and fancy umbrellas would make the best weapon. Meanwhile a couple of addicts, indifferent to these adjustments to their routine, wait patiently for their daily ration of methadone as I wait for my Glucophage … I’m again told to go straight home, which I don’t think anyone has said to me since I was a child.23 October “Big shout for you this morning,” says R, having been listening to the radio where on Desert Island Discs Mark Gatiss has been talking about growing up in South Yorkshire and watching Our Winnie and realising that his life could be worth writing about too – much as I suppose I did when reading Richard Hoggart’s Uses of Literacy. Gatiss links it up with Hector’s History Boys speech about a hand coming out and taking yours. Immensely bucked by this (which I’ll write to Mark G) coming as it does at a difficult time with the play, one of the shortcomings of which is that it lacks such human moments.201219 June Watch the last of Grayson Perry’s TV series In the Best Possible Taste, which have been good programmes, though requiring the subjects – tonight it’s the upper classes – to think about decoration and style, thus almost inevitably falsifying the answers, the unthinkingness of style of its essence. It put me in mind though of my second play, Getting On (1971), which I look up. It’s not a good play (and far too wordy) but where it scores – and is almost documentary – is about class and style, and particularly the style of the young marrieds who were my contemporaries in 1970, with George, the verbose Labour MP who’s its central figure, hankering after the style of the old middle classes, “the middle-class family … the most exclusive interior decorator in the world’. He also hankers after unselfconsciousness in style and taking things for granted which, 40 years later, I’m still on about in People – not that anyone will notice.31 July Shopping in Primrose Hill this afternoon I see David Miliband on the phone outside the bookshop. It’s the first time I’ve seen him since the election (and his demotion) so I wave and he straight away comes off the phone and we talk. I’m not even sure if he still lives in [the area] (which he does) but that apart he talks entirely about me – where do I live now, what am I reading, have I got a new play on but in that kind of half-attentive way politicians have, asking questions but scarcely listening to the answers – royalty, I imagine, similarly.No reference to politics except to say he didn’t think we are quite where we should be at this time but after the party conference it would be more clear. … I say – and this isn’t just politeness – that he is much missed as indeed he is. Even if not in his brother’s place but in close association with him it would make all the difference – and not just cosmetically.As I go, I say: “Remember you are missed. So think on.” But maybe people say this to him all the time.8 August Two boys who won in the triathlon [in the Olympics] live in Bramhope, a village on the outskirts of Leeds which we often drive through. The only other notable resident of Bramhope is (or maybe was) Saddam Hussein’s cousin.20135 March So cold this week that I do what I haven’t done since I was in the army in Bodmin in 1954, get up and put on my clothes on top of my pyjamas.28 March Suffolk. Turns out a good day partly because we didn’t have any plans. First comes a ritual visit to Yoxford where we go round the junk shop and I buy a book of letters between Beth Chatto and Christopher Lloyd. Then coffee in the eccentric post office where an ancient customer recognises me and shakes me so firmly by the hand it’s like being caught in a mangle. “Say something whimsical,” he commands.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The television adaptation ofLove, Nina with Helena Bonham Carter as Georgia (Mary-Kay Wilmers), her two sons, and Faye Marsay as Nina, right. Photograph: Nick Wall/BBC/See-Saw Films21 June Read the proof copy of Nina Stibbe’s diary of her time as nanny at Mary-Kay’s [Wilmers]. It’s fresh and droll with Nina’s personality coming through very clearly. Sam and Will are funny (and funny together) as is Mary-Kay. I on the other hand am solid, dependable and dull, my contributions always full of good sense; I am said to  be good at mending bikes (not true) and at diagnosing malfunctioning electrical appliances (certainly not true). None of this I mind much, though it is painful to be even so lightheartedly misremembered. I am the voice of reason, something of which I’ve never hitherto been accused. I’m also a dismal Jimmy who periodically puts in an appearance as like as not (and this at least is fair) bearing a rice pudding. Much is made of the charms of turkey mince which I never recall being offered and which, had I been, I would certainly have refused. Such is art.1 October That so much of what I’ve written has been in the valedictory mode ought to make these latter days seem nothing new. I was saying farewell to the world virtually in my teens and my first play (when I was aged 34) was a lament for an England that has gone. My last play (aged 79) was still waving the same handkerchief. Better I suppose than always hailing a new dawn.I was saying goodbye to the body before I’d even had a taste of it.20146 January Though I’ve learned never entirely to believe in a film until it actually happens, it does seem likely that this autumn we will be shooting The Lady in the Van.The house where the story happened, 23 Gloucester Crescent in Camden Town, is currently lived in by the photographer Antony Crolla though many of my belongings are still there. This afternoon I go round to start the lengthy process of clearing out some of the books and papers so that it can be used for the filming.15 July Asked by Yorkshire Tea if I would like “a quick jaunt to King’s Cross Station” to have my face modelled in cake and put on a plinth in the forecourt. It’s not a distinction that is to be conferred on me alone, though Yorkshire Tea does not specify who my fellow modèles en gâteaux might be – the late Freddie Trueman I would guess, Michael Parkinson possibly and Alan Titchmarsh (who’s so amiable he might even do it). A candidate for patisserie posterity would once have been that son of Yorkshire, Jimmy Savile, who seemed made for marzipan. But not now. No cake for James.201528 January Thoughts about Wolf Hall (on TV). Hilary Mantel, Niall Ferguson, Alan Taylor: history is a playground. The facts are Lego. Make of them what you will.It’s a sentiment I would happily have put into the mouth of Irwin in The History Boys.8 May A feeling of bereavement in the streets. I shop for supper and unprompted a grey-haired woman in the fish shop bursts out, “It means I shall have a Tory government for the rest of my life.”In the library they say, “Good morning … though we’ve just been trying to think what’s good about it.”I wanted a Labour government so that I could stop thinking about politics, knowing that the nation’s affairs were in the hands of a party which, even if often foolish, was  at least well-intentioned. Now we have another decade of the self-interested and the self-seeking, ready to sell off what’s left of our liberal institutions and loot the rest to their own advantage. It’s not a government of the nation but a government of half the nation, a true legacy of Mrs Thatcher. Work is the only escape, which fortunately moves along a little.8 August Sixty-three years since I went into the army, when my biggest fear was having to take my clothes off whether for shower, medical examinations or whatever. In the event I managed never to have to go naked at any time during my National Service or indeed university that followed it. At Coulsdon where I was stationed to begin with I used to go for a shower (once a week) on a Saturday evening when the camp (and the showers) were empty. This was a dread that dogged me half my life.12 August I’m not a member of the Labour party and so can’t vote. If I could, though, I’d vote for Jeremy Corbyn if only out of hope that the better part of salvation lies not in electoral calculation but in the aspirations of the people.31 December Yorkshire. Wanting to wind up this year with something resounding I am at a loss. It’s that flat time after Christmas when nothing happens and on this last afternoon of 2015 little occurs. I am now 81 which, though it has been a long time coming, is still a bit of a surprise. I am comforted as I have been in the past by something I believe was said as he looked back on his life by the Argentinian author [Jorge Luis] Borges: “All the books I have ever written fill me only with a complex feeling of repentance.”I take this to mean that he has never written the perfect book. As who has?So we keep on, keeping on.Postscript: 23 June 2016. The day of the referendum, I spend sitting at the kitchen table correcting the proofs of these diaries, finishing them on Friday morning before going to Yorkshire in despair. I imagine this must have been what Munich was like in 1938 – half the nation rejoicing at a supposed deliverance, the other half stunned by the country’s self-serving cowardice. Well, we shall see.• Alan Bennett’s Keeping On Keeping On is published by Faber/Profile. To order a copy for £20.50 (RRP £25) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.