In 2012, when Justin Simien was trying to fund Dear White People, the response from black millennials was one of excitement and disbelief: could Simien and his crew really succeed in making such a provocative movie? Two years later, we had our answer. While the film was roundly celebrated, there was criticism for the shoddy way the film handled colorism. It missed the mark with the dark-skinned Coco and her struggle to find acceptance, which was surprising given the film’s overall ability to dismantle stereotypes. Coco is presented as a foil to the wokeness of the main character, Sam: she is the black person fawning over whiteness with the shallow goal of getting cast on a reality TV show. In Teyonah Parris’s portrayal of the character, little is done to explore her backstory or why she has made the decisions she has.Dear White People review – race relations go back to school in still-searing satire  The film shuffles through the layers of Sam’s personality and her bi-racial struggle, but less compassion is given to the darker-skinned Coco, with her blonde wig and those gray contacts. Her character’s personality is reduced to a series of hashtags: #sellout #selfhate #notwoke. This, of course, wasn’t the first time the spotlight had shone brighter on the lighter half of a black female duo. Light-skinned actors most often land the few leading film roles available to African Americans, with darker-skinned actors often cast as the bestie, the assistant or the nemesis. This dynamic is just as prevalent on the small screen: think Gina and Pam from Martin, Rainbow and her mother-in-law on Black-ish or Cookie and Porsha on Empire. Fortunately, Simien has used the Dear White People Netflix series to attempt to right his wrongs. The fourth episode of the new series unpacks the baggage between Sam and Coco, and Coco’s character is a voice for many of the issues around colorism that have gone unsaid between black women.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Teyonah Parris as Colandrea ‘Coco’ Conners in the film version of Dear White People. Photograph: Allstar/LionsgateThe episode opens with a flashback to Coco’s childhood in a scene that is a nod to the historic doll test: a girl picks the white doll from the toy box and tells Coco she has to play with the “ugly one”, a black doll. Young Coco can be seen forming early thoughts around blackness and beauty. Jumping back to the present, Coco (Antoinette Robertson) is making an exit from the show’s pivotal blackface party thrown by some of her white peers at the Ivy League school that is the setting for the series. Coco runs into Samantha White (Logan Browning), her former best friend, who expresses disgust at finding Coco at the party. Why are there so few black female stars with darker skin? | Kele Okereke “They spend millions of dollars on their lips, their tans, their asses, Kanye tickets because they want to be like us,” she says to Sam. “And they got to be for a night.” The next day, after Sam broadcasts a clip of the rant, Coco calls Sam out for her light-skin privilege: “Imagine the reaction if your divisive revolutionary drivel were coming from the mouth of a real sister. You get away with murder because you look more like them than I do.” The scene points to tensions that have long existed in the black community surrounding skin color and privilege – tensions that have manifested themselves recently in debates surrounding light-skinned and multi-racial black activists who are seen to be given more leeway by the white community, and whose boldness in the face of injustice is praised by the black community. The episode takes us back to the beginning of Sam and Coco’s relationship, when they were actually friends. Coco points out that her skin means that people assume she’s “poor, uneducated and ratchet” and says she’s never had to figure out who she was, unlike Sam, who wasn’t confronted by her own blackness until the second grade. Sam’s college experience of figuring out her black identity is offset by the rejection Coco experiences by several black social circles. Despite the anger she has at whiteness, Coco finds friendship in a group of white women. That friendship frequently means smiling and nodding her way through casual racism and microaggressions, as when the crew attends a party and upperclassmen boys choose freshmen girls to kiss, with Coco the lone woman who isn’t chosen; or when one of her friends shares that she’s named her vibrator Idris and admits to believing that that counts as an interracial relationship.Generally, disagreement between women on TV shows is reduced to “cattiness”, but Dear White People pushes beyond that to create a dialogue around how black women support and fail each other. It questions whether those of us who have light-skin privilege should be passing judgment against those who do not for the way they navigate whiteness in their daily lives. Can you really call yourself woke if you’re sleeping on the difference between your struggle and the struggle of darker-skinned black women?