The Naked Boys Reading collective is what it says on the tin: a literary salon in which naked men read. They are based at the Ace Hotel in London where they have a bimonthly residency; I saw them read in Todmorden, West Yorkshire. Fittingly for Brontë country, the event was themed around sisters, with three naked men plodding on stage with a work by Charlotte, Anne and Emily. The atmosphere was both spirited and academic; themed cocktails were clutched in the hands of the female dominated audience, with a fair bit of jovial heckling in between readings. Watching Naked Boys Reading is an experience akin to a hen do hijacked by a spoken word event: a unexpectedly cerebral night of nude performance art.“This is a male voice reading a female text written under a male name,” says collective co-founder and self-styled “drag know-it-all” Dr Sharon Husbands, after his reading of the closing passages of Wuthering Heights. “It’s problematic.” Husbands has a PhD in gender and sexuality, and speaking with him before he gets on stage it becomes clear very quickly that Naked Boys Reading is an intellectually considered affair; not least when Husbands solemnly says things like: “The nudity provides two things: a new lens and modality for the texts, and the care-giving experience of being read to.”The collective formed in 2012, having been inspired by Chicago’s all-female Naked Girls Reading, which was started by two women in the city’s burlesque scene. Unlike the drawn-out disrobing found in burlesque, the men just walk on stage; there is no teasing titillation, they are just naked. Speaking to a few people in the crowd, there was a definite sense that there would be a very different atmosphere if it were women naked on stage. But that is part of what the collective is telegraphing; very deliberately naming the night Naked Boys Reading, as opposed to Naked Men Reading. “We want to infantilise men in the same way women are infantilised,” Husbands tells me. “We have to critique these structures.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Readers and listeners relax after the Yorkshire event. Photograph: Michael Ryan/fotoVUE.comAsh Young, a lifeguard, is reading naked tonight; it is his first time. He has wanted to do it for ages, he tells me. “There is a shock value, speaking as a male nude and promoting the objectification of the male body, and it allows a different interpretation of the text,” he says. He’s settled on the second chapter of Jane Eyre; poignant, he believes, as it is a first person text: a character baring all. Taking to the stage with a detectable wobble in his voice, Young’s delivery and posture eventually relax. A few audience members have told me how quickly the nudity becomes normalised; I wonder if the readers feel that too.Is there a relationship between the nudity and reading? Why is this Naked Boys Reading, as opposed to, say, Naked Boys Do Literally Anything Else? “There is something sexy about it and something nerdy,” Husband explains. “And when you put seeming opposites together, something interesting happens.”Back in 2013, the poet Mark Grist released a viral video of himself reading his poem, Girls Who Read: “Some prefer arses / some prefer tits / and I am not saying I don’t like those bits. / But what’s more important? / What supercedes / is a girl with passion, wit and dreams.” Condemned for positing women reading as a eroticised rarity, the poem was panned.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Mark Grist reads his poem Girls Who ReadBut there is ample evidence to suggest male readers are similarly fetishised; Hot Dudes Reading is yet another no-nonsense-named venture, an Instagram account featuring hot dudes, reading. It is so popular that it has spawned a coffee table book and a calendar. One of the founders – all ask to be anonymous – told me it came from her and her friends “talking about, sending pictures of and salivating over hot dudes of all kinds”.“One day we realised a common thread between all our very different tastes was that guys are always more attractive when they’re reading,” she says. “We decided how the rest of the world might react to our silly exchanges and created the [Instagram] account that now rules our life.”What is it about the male reader that is prompting this new wave of objectification? “We’re firm believers that smart is sexy,” she says, of the six heterosexual women and seven homosexual men that run the Hot Dudes Reading account. “A book makes us think he’s got a lot more to offer than his appearance.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There is still a crisis about seeing the male body’ … Naked Boys Reading. Photograph: Manu ValcarceHusbands believes both experiments offer voyeurism, though he is keen to distinguish on the line of consent; the Instagram Hot Dudes Reading relies on stealth photographs of men reading on the train or waiting in line at Starbucks, whereas the men of Naked Boys Reading are keenly aware of what they’re taking part in. But fetishising men for reading is somehow radical and exciting: an avenue for women to unashamedly voice their attraction to men, while deflecting accusations of crass objectification with their appreciation for the bookish soul underneath the muscles. “There is still a crisis about seeing the male body,” Husbands believes. “It is mostly neutered, contemplative or warlike.”But sitting in the audience of Naked Boys Reading, gazing at the naked male body still leaves me tentative. Are the books just a conduit for staring at a bloke’s nethers? Does literature permit this gaze somehow? Either way, I couldn’t help but wonder what the Brontës might have thought.