Unreported World 7.30pm, Channel 4Tonight’s edition comes from Berlin, a haven for those fleeing war and also a bastion of liberal tolerance. However, gay refugees from Syria and Iraq face violence from bigoted fellow migrants. We meet one young man who was a promising pop star in Iraq but was forced to leave after questions arose about his sexuality and his friends braved deadly attacks. He himself faces an attack on his shelter, with homophobic migrants the main suspects. David Stubbs The Level 9pm, ITVIf last week’s rug-pull made you uprate this thriller from “adequate” to “addictive”, then episode three certainly won’t give you cause to regret it. There are chases around pretty Brighton locations and another batch of revelations to complicate a plot where nobody knows what anyone else knows, as impetuous cop Nancy (Karla Crome) investigates a murder without telling her colleagues she’s a key witness. The many large implausibles are easily ignored. Jack SealeThe Story of Skinhead with Don Letts 9pm, BBC4It is one of the strangest contradictions in the history of pop culture that a movement so in thrall to Jamaican music became so affiliated in the public’s mind with racism. But that is certainly not the whole picture – and neither did it start out that way – as Don Letts explores in this fascinating look at the multicultural roots, fashions and legacy of a fiercely proud, urban working-class subculture. Ali CatterallStill Game 9.30pm, BBC1The revival of this comedy continues with Jack and Victor dealing with booze-related problems. Not only has Boabby decided to quit The Clansman, to be replaced by a fearsome new barman, but grog prices are up and Craiglang’s residents have turned to bootleg “hoochie-coochie”, which is having unwanted side effects.A comedy that should, by rights, be past its sell-by date but still reliably delivers laughs, this episode is dedicated to the late Jake D’Arcy (Pete the Jakey). Jonathan WrightGogglebox 9pm, Channel 4Why watch TV all week when you can get someone else to do it for you? While charming new additions to the sofa-bound cast Mary and Marina are settling in well, posh new family the Delaney-Elwoods divide opinion among Gogglebox’s more devoted viewers. Established favourites such as rent-a-daft-quote Scarlett Moffatt and the effervescent Sandy and Sandra are old hands at providing more entertainment than the shows on which they’re commenting. Hannah VerdierAmerican Horror Story: Roanoke 10pm, FoxCutting between a lurid, nominally true-life documentary focused on a child abduction in North Carolina and bloodthirsty flashbacks to 1590, season six of AHS has been a bumpy ride so far. A juicy twist is apparently imminent but, in the meantime, it’s fun to see The People v OJ Simpson co-stars Sarah Paulson and Cuba Gooding Jr properly screaming at each other rather than just exchanging frosty glances across a courtroom. Graeme VirtueFilm choiceIn the Heart of the Sea (Ron Howard, 2015), 1.45pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereBased on Nathaniel Philbrick’s book of the same title, Howard’s admirable seagoing yarn tells the story of the real events that inspired Herman Melville’s classic, Moby-Dick. In 1820, a handful of survivors from the Nantucket whaler Essex were picked up, having been sunk by an enormous sperm whale. This is a great, storm-tossed adventure, with Chris Hemsworth as the gritty first mate, Owen Chase, who wrote an account of the fateful encounter, and Ben Whishaw as Melville himself. Paul HowlettSport choiceFootball: Cardiff City v Bristol City Coverage of the Championship clash (kick-off 7.45pm). 7pm, Sky Sports 1Scottish Football: Inverness Caledonian Thistle v Rangers SPL encounter at the Caledonian Stadium (kick-off 7.45pm). 7pm, BT Sport 1European Champions Cup Rugby: Glasgow Warriors v Leicester Tigers Coverage from the Scotstoun Stadium (kick-off 7.45pm).7pm, BT Sport 2