A book following the case that inspired the hit Netflix documentary Making a Murderer is to be published in the UK and Commonwealth by Penguin Random House.The Innocent Killer by Michael Griesbach was originally published by the American Bar Association in 2014. Griesbach, a Wisconsin lawyer, investigated the handling of Steven Avery’s 1985 conviction for the violent sexual assault of Penny Beerntsen. Avery served 18 years in prison before being exonerated in 2003 when DNA evidence revealed another man had attacked Beernsten. Avery sued authorities in Manitowoc county for $36m for wrongful imprisonment, but was arrested again in 2005, along with his 16-year-old nephew, for the murder of a photographer, Teresa Halbach. Avery was sentenced to life imprisonment without parole in 2007.Griesbach worked on overturning Avery’s original rape conviction when the DNA evidence was submitted, and has reviewed all the evidence in the Teresa Halbach case.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photograph: Penguin Random HouseThe Netflix documentary about Avery’s case, Making a Murderer, has garnered huge audiences and generated debate among armchairs sleuths as to whether or not Avery is guilty. Griesbach briefly appears in the first episode to talk about Avery’s initial wrongful conviction. He recently told Wisconsin radio station WTMJ he had watched Making a Murderer and that he “still believed” Avery was guilty of Halbach’s murder, disagreeing with the documentary’s inclusion of the theory that evidence was planted by police as a retaliation to Avery’s $36m lawsuit.“It’s not that [Making a Murderer] doesn’t have really important lessons.” he said. “The one I draw is that the original injustice by what looks to me like, frankly, an intentional wrongful conviction of an innocent person – that is the only reason they can make these allegations.”Laura Deacon, editorial director of Windmill Books – part of Penguin Random House – said she was “thrilled” to discover Griesbach’s book. “The Innocent Killer is compulsive reading, which challenges the justice system and sheds additional light on the case that has gripped the entire world,” Deacon said. “Opinion is divided over whether Avery is innocent or guilty – this book will certainly add to the debate and make you see elements of the case in a new light.”Beerntsen, the woman assaulted in the crime for which Avery was originally convicted in 1985, says Griesbach’s book is “about tragedy, but it’s also about hope”.“I survived my own personal nightmare when I was assaulted on the beach that day only to learn years later that I unwittingly played a starring role in someone else’s ... We can’t unring the bell of an injustice; we can’t right the wrong. But we must joust with humility and learn from our mistakes — because to do anything less would be unforgivable,” said Beerntsen, now a restorative justice campaigner.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Making a Murderer has recently been criticised for omitting prosecution evidence from Avery’s cases, prompting executive director, writer and producer Laura Ricciardi to argue, on Sunday, that the omission was necessary: “We were not putting on a trial, but a film. Of what was omitted, the question is: was it really significant? The secret is no.”“We’re not prosecutors, we’re not defense attorneys, we do not set out to convict or exonerate anyone,” she said, during the Television Critics Association winter tour in California. “We set out to examine the criminal justice system and how it’s functioning today. It would have been impossible for us to include every piece of evidence submitted to the court.”The Innocent Killer will be published by Windmill Books on 21 January 2016 as an ebook, with a paperback edition following on 11 February.