The Archers’ everyday story of domestic abuse has certainly not made for easy listening as the slow-burning crescendo of physical and emotional abuse continues to dominate the storyline (Talk of the week: Rob & Helen Titchener, 26 March). The fact that this abusive and manipulative relationship has triggered off national debate can only be positive for the very significant numbers of women from all walks of life who are trapped in this type of “hidden” and life-destroying abuse: the Archers’ scriptwriters have sought support from Women’s Aid and Refuge which has ensured that the characters accurately reflect what can exist behind closed doors.It is important that open debate about this issue does take place so that there is more awareness of the new law against controlling and coercive behaviour in an intimate family relationship, and hopefully more victims will develop the confidence to seek support from appropriate charities, GPs or police. This subversive and sinister form of abuse is often referred to by psychologists as “gaslighting”, it was first portrayed in the 1938 play Gas Light (adapted for film twice as Gaslight, in 1940 and 1944), and it has been described as a method used by narcissists and sociopaths to control, confuse and debilitate someone. Hopefully there will soon be a resolution to this unpleasant and protracted situation, and some Archers fans will be more informed and appreciative of the work carried out by the two charities concerned.Norma HornbyWarrington• The BBC’s contribution to wider understanding of domestic violence is commendable – the current Archers storyline building on a significant track record such as earlier plot developments in EastEnders, and even influencing the same in Neighbours. What is unique, however, and most welcome, is the contribution that continuity announcers are making to our understanding of Rob’s abuse and Helen’s assumption of her fault. One observation a week ago, “a nation shudders”, was poignant, albeit heard by a limited demographic, and testament to our growing comprehension of controlling behaviour, more so than any public information broadcast.Alan CoombeIndependent adviser on child protection policy and practice• Although there has been so much comment about Rob’s abuse of Helen, everyone seems to have forgotten his other misdemeanours – blocking the culvert at Berrow Farm which exacerbated if it did not cause the village flood, his homophobic abuse of Adam Macy and attempt to sabotage his marriage to Ian, the attack on the hunt protester… the list goes on. The writers have created a much more complex character than they’re being given credit for.Mary FosterBrentford, Middlesex• Listeners to The Archers are gripped by a fictional “gaslighting” of an intelligent person, Helen Titchener, by her nearest and dearest, Rob, who is undermining her reality. Is there a parallel here in respect of British voters?We are told by a largely rightwing press and cowed broadcasters (think here of Pat and Tony, her parents terrified of another breakdown, and going along with Rob) that the 2008 financial meltdown was our fault. It wasn’t. It was caused by financial machinations on a global scale: sub-prime mortgages algorithmically transformed into “risk-free” bets; Libor fixing, which affects every mortgaged home; and insider trading – akin to Rob and his mother Ursula deciding secretly on the future of Helen’s child.Another Ambridge metaphor: George Osborne is surely desperate to ensure that enough feed remains in the public trough should we suffer another meltdown, widely forecast.As Helen’s crisis approaches, we look to the appropriately named Kirsty to wake her up. Who will rescue us from the austerity narrative that denies the truth? We need to regulate and tax our finance sector so that it is accountable to our taxpayer family, our communal goods, and pay the substantial dues owed. And fund our industries!Louise HunterLondon• I don’t normally listen to The Archers, but the antics of Rob Titchener have drawn me to listen in regularly. Every episode makes me more mad. Why doesn’t Pat see what’s going on? Suddenly it hit me. Rob is George Osborne, Helen is the weak and needy, and Pat is the electorate.John TollickPontefract, West Yorkshire• I thought Marina Hyde made a very good point about the “war on wives waged by [Donald] Trump and [Ted] Cruz” (Opinion, 26 March). Neither of the leading Republican presidential candidates’ wives is running for office, yet they have been dragged into the personalised public battles of the primary race.However, I thought it should be brought to your attention that your paper also runs a column, this week conveniently published on the same spread as the above article, called “Mrs Cameron’s diary”. In my opinion it is only a word or two away from turning into the same kind of “war on wives” as we are seeing in the US presidential race. And all on women who aren’t running for (or in) office themselves.Bronwyn MolonyClondalkin, Ireland• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com