There is a moment, around 20 minutes into Sarah Kane’s play Cleansed, when, without great fanfare, the brutality commences: “Tinker produces a large pair of scissors and cuts off Carl’s tongue,” read the stage directions. “Carl waves his arms, his mouth open, full of blood, no sound emerging.”It was not long after this scene that an audience member attending a preview performance of Katie Mitchell’s production at the National Theatre this week collapsed. The house lights went up. Ushers hurried in to escort him out. But he was not alone: by the end of the first week’s run, the production had accumulated a grand total of five faints and 40 walk-outs. It will run until early May.What has enhanced the shock at Cleansed’s brutality – the tongue-cutting scene arrives shortly after an episode in which a pole has been inserted into a man’s anus, and is followed by scenes of incest, electrocution, rape and forced genital reassignment surgery – has been the fact that these are scenes that were written (and directed) by a woman. And after all the fuss of the fainting and the flouncing out, we are left with a quite fascinating question: do we expect women’s work to shy away from subjects of violence, sex, the grotesque, the dark? Do we still, on some level, expect their work to be pretty and palatable and contained? And if so, why?Cleansed review – Katie Mitchell plunges us into Sarah Kane's chamber of horrors “There isn’t a big tradition of putting the violence of atrocity on stage in Britain,” director Mitchell told Radio 4 this week. “We’re afraid of that dark female voice that insists we examine pornography and violence. We just don’t feel comfortable being asked to do those things, particularly by a woman.”Cleansed was Kane’s third play. Described as a “tender and violent fable”, it is set on a university campus, and explores the bounds of love. Kane said that she wrote the play after reading Roland Barthes’ assertion that “being in love is like being in Auschwitz”.It premiered at the Royal Court theatre in April 1998. “It was the first play I ever programmed,” says Ian Rickson, the theatre’s former artistic director. He did not at the time give much thought to the critical and public reaction. “I’m sure I read that play and thought it was going to be tough,” he says. “But as an artistic director you can’t be a censor of your writers. It was to do with committing to Sarah as an artist, and the bravery of her first play [Blasted]. And it was more about creating a context for her to thrive.”Kane was, Rickson thinks, “completely blindsided by the tabloid furore that followed Blasted,” [the Daily Mail’s critic Jack Tinker memorably labelled it “a disgusting feast of filth” – it’s worth noting that the torturer in Cleansed is named Tinker] and believes that Cleansed “was a defiant gesture after that”.Rickson also believes that the critical response to Kane’s work was undoubtedly coloured by the fact that she was a woman. “Because most critics, who are largely male, have bunkered views, possibly unconsciously held, about what is becoming for a female artist,” he says. Many female artists create work that is “visceral and disturbing” he says, but they often make critics flinch. “I think it offends something quite deep within them,” he says. “Maybe within all of us.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘There isn’t a big tradition of putting the violence of atrocity on stage in Britain’ … director Katie Mitchell. Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian“I think there’s a tendency to react to women addressing extreme violence that is to do with how we expect women to be,” says Lyn Gardner, who has been a theatre critic for the Guardian for 20 years. “You know, sugar and spice and all things nice.”When female writers tackle subjects of rage, frustration or violence, they are often invested in a character of a “monstrous woman” – Bertha Mason in Charlotte Brontë’s Jane Eyre, for instance. And while Virginia Woolf spoke of the necessity of “killing the angel in the house” – that is, the idealised, passive woman who must be disposed of before a female writer can truly create in The Madwoman in the Attic, in their study of the woman writer and 19th-century literary imagination, Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar assert that the idea of the “monstrous” woman must also be destroyed.In many ways, Kane herself was made into a “monstrous woman” by the press. “You feel her work owes much more to clinical depression than to real artistic vision,” Charles Spencer wrote in the Daily Telegraph the year that Cleansed was first staged. A year later, having completed two more plays, she took her own life.“The thing that haunts Sarah Kane is that she was ‘insane’ and killed herself,” says Rebecca Schneider, professor of theatre studies at Brown University. “Everyone forgets that there are many male writers who killed themselves and were still revered.”It is nearly 20 years since Schneider published The Explicit Body in Performance, a work that addressed a different kind of shocking performance by female artists – “women who made their bodies the stage, some violent, some scatological …” and concluded that: “As long as women are [portrayed as] victims [in art] it’s OK, [but] when they wield the very things that are done to them it becomes challenging and out of bounds.”She cites the case of Karen Finley, who smeared her body with chocolate and found that the National Endowment for the Arts promptly withdrew her funding. “There was a large outcry about obscenity that was very gendered,” Schneider recalls. “Bad boy transgressive artists are fine. Why not bad girl transgressive artists? And it’s not changing.” She adds. “It’s incredibly recalcitrant.”When the academic and performance artist Dr Lauren Barri Holstein screened a recording of one of her performances to her students, it caused something of a media storm. The film showed a scene from her Barbican performance SPLAT! “in which I’m sitting on top of a table and I insert the handle of a knife into my vagina. There’s a song playing, and I’m handed balloons filled with tomato sauce and I smash them against the knife so they explode, to the beat of the music.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A ‘tender and violent fable’ … Cleansed. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianBut the problem, Barri Holstein says, “is that when a work is sensationalised, they distill it down to one scene”. The reality of that scene, in the context of the performance, was that it was “the crashing of a postfeminist feeling of the joy and the seduction and the fun of that kind of culture, the music, the sexualisation of my body, undermined by the mess – the uncontained body – and by the exhaustion, because boredom creeps in after the shock. And for me, the boredom is way more fascinating. I’ve never been interested in pleasure or entertainment.”Barri Holstein has just completed her PhD in The Displayed Body and its Agency: Pleasure, Violence and Humiliation in Contemporary Feminist Performance, and also performs as The Famous, in which her productions are “everything at once. It is chaotic, and it is boring, and it is beautiful and it is disgusting.” Both her academic and her stage work is interested in “finding forms of agency through negativity, failure, mess, huiliation, boredom” rather than through “postfeminist terms such as ‘choice’ or ‘empowerment’”.The critical response has, of course, dwelled more on the fact that Barri Holstein is a woman on stage simulating masturbation, blowing up condoms and inserting objects into her vagina. “It’s depressing,” she says. “I’m quoting Rebecca Schneider: ‘It’s not nudity that’s the problem, it’s women’s agency.’ If I were standing on stage, fetishistic, not talking, it would be fine. But it’s this combination of being messy and not fetishisable that is the problem.”Women writers willing to tackle gruesome, violent or physical topics have arguably fared better on the page rather than in performance – Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, for instance, or crime writers such as Agatha Christie and Ruth Rendell. Though even here some audiences recoil – in 1948 Shirley Jackson’s The Lottery was deemed so unsettling upon its publication in the New Yorker that several readers cancelled their subscription.The novelist Elizabeth Hand has twice won the Shirley Jackson award for literature in the realm of “psychological suspense, horror, and the dark fantastic”. “Ever since I was very, very young I was drawn to ghost stories and macabre true crime stories,” Hand recalls. “I grew up just outside of New York and I remember the New York Daily News used to run a daily ‘Justice’ story, with a grisly picture. I was compelled and repelled.”Five people faint due to violence in National Theatre's Cleansed But it was her own experience of crime that shifted the tone of her writing. “I had a bad experience when I was 21,” she says. “I was abducted and raped in DC. And it peeled away this layer of the world for me: where I had been able to read these stories, and even though they were true, I had been able to feel they were not in the real world. In my writing after that, the dark element became more pronounced.Though she touched on the experience in an early novella, Cleopatra Brimstone, she explains how in that early attempt she “filtered” it through the use of magical realism. Her novel Generation Loss, published in 2007, “was the first time that I’d written about it directly, that I’d been able to examine it and her, as somebody who didn’t really recover from it in the way that I did. It made it much more visceral.” One review, published in the Cleveland Plain Dealer, ran under the headline: “Plunge into a pit of moral decay.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sarah Kane took her own life in 1999. Photograph: Jane Bown for the Guardian“Some of the most interesting books I’ve read – dark, transgressive stories, subverting the dominant paradigm, have been written by women,” she says, citing Shelley, Patricia Highsmith, Daphne du Maurier, Angela Carter and Cara Hoffman as notable examples. “But I think we are acculturated to think of women as being more passive and psychologically, physiologically accustomed to women in the role of the victim. So I think when the tables are turned there is a culturally embedded response that is one of shock, or at least surprise.”She points out, too, the humdrum reality of their subject matter. “I read an interview with Sarah Kane in which she said, ‘I didn’t make any of this stuff up. I’m not that sick. I write about the stories in the newspaper, I just leave out the boring bits.’ And that’s how I feel. “I also think women may have a more lived experience of violence – domestic abuse, sexual abuse, workplace violence. We are taught growing up to be afraid. We are not really taught to be risk-takers.”And in that shadowy area of fear, the imagination can thrive. “If you grow up as a woman, maybe you don’t grow up afraid, but you grow up alert,” agrees Gardner. “If you go out on to the street, you are aware that the footsteps behind you could mean something. And in an odd way I would say that once you become a mother, it’s as if layers of skin have been torn away from you; you spend much of your time imagining the very worst things that could happen.”The last time there was a notable fit of fainting at the theatre was at Lucy Bailey’s production of Titus Andronicus at the Globe. Before that, it was Deborah Warner’s production of the same play for the RSC. “It’s interesting that both were directed by women, says Gardner. “Both were incredibly truthful. It’s a play of extreme violence, particularly violence towards women, but to shirk that would be an artistic dereliction of duty.”“There are assumptions about women and genre, to prettify and domesticate women,” says Dr Lesel Dawson, of the University of Bristol, and yet she notes that many women writers, artists and directors readily embrace subjects of violence. “Deborah Warner had done Electra, she’d done Medea, and she said that she identified ‘a neurotic inability to look at the things that horrify’. And so she wanted to do that in her art,” she says. In Julie Taymor’s film of the same play, she notes how “you see the rape itself through the victim’s mind, rather than the rapist’s mind. I think for her, she wanted to make the rape scene political and personal.” Bailey, she says, was the only director who was asked to direct Titus rather than choosing to. “So she’s an interesting exception, and she has spoken of how she didn’t know if she could live with the violence every day,” she adds.And yet we do live with violence every day – in our news coverage, on our TV and cinema screens, in our song lyrics and literature. Gardner notes how times have changed since Cleansed was first staged. “We’ve now a generation of critics who grew up without that brouhaha. There’s much more acceptance of levels of violence depicted on screen now, which is to do with Tarantino films, and in a way it’s to do with 24-hour news and endless pictures of terrible things happening to people.”It is perhaps not surprising, she says, that Jacobean revenge tragedies are back in vogue – “plays in which hearts are taken out and the pile of corpses at the end is incredible. We all know what is happening in Iraq and Syria and with Isis. It might be that when times are violent, we look to art to explain.”So while the response to its staging might be surprising, it is perhaps fitting that Kane’s work should now be the subject of a revival. “She’s a playwright who can shock, but she’s also a playwright of great tenderness,” Gardner says. “We still don’t have enough female playwrights like that. We can’t afford to lose them.”