MondayPeople, Places and Things is unmissable at Wyndham’s theatre. It’s your last chance this week for the unsettling and absurd Right Now at the Bush theatre in London. Scenes from 68* Years at the Arcola in Hackney is Hannah Khalil’s snapshots of life in Palestine from 1948 to the present. Jean Genet’s Deathwatch is revived at the Print Room at the Coronet in Notting Hill. Legally Blonde opens at the Curve theatre in Leicester, where Ishy Din’s Wipers, inspired by the first South Asian soldier to be awarded the Victoria Cross, continues in the studio. Caroline Liversidge’s A Living at Arc Stockton considers working to live and living to work. Long Day’s Journey Into Night is worth seeing in Bristol at the Old Vic.People, Places and Things review – a vivid tale of acting and addiction TuesdayJamal Harewood’s controversial and provocative The Privileged is back at Camden People’s theatre for the rest of the week. The Wardrobe Ensemble’s vastly entertaining 1972: The Future of Sex takes up residence at Shoreditch town hall. Ionesco’s The Chairs is revived by Extant, the UK’s only performing arts company for the visually impaired, at Mac in Birmingham tonight and tomorrow and at the Lowry in Salford on Friday and Saturday. Birds of Paradise’s Wendy Hoose, about searching for love in all the wrong places, is at Soho theatre from tonight as part of A Nation’s Theatre. Jackson’s Lane theatre in Highgate, London, hosts Agit Cirk’s Sceno as part of Circus Fest 16. Filter’s terrific Twelfth Night is at Birmingham Rep this week. WednesdayAnnie Baker’s much anticipated The Flick starts in the Dorfman at the National. The Best of BE festival, featuring a range of European companies, pitches up at the Pit at the Barbican. Maureen Lipman stars in a major revival of Charlotte Keatley’s famed exploration of mothers and daughters, My Mother Said I Never Should, at the St James theatre in London’s West End.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sophie Melville in the ‘explosive’ Iphigenia in Splott – it bows out at the Everyman in Liverpool this week. Photograph: National TheatreThursdayIphigenia in Splott is at the Everyman in Liverpool tonight, Friday and Saturday. It’s explosive, and these are its final dates, so don’t miss out. The Barbican’s Silk Street theatre hosts Peggy Shaw’s terrific Ruff which reflects on ageing and what is lost. The brilliant The Money, a fascinating show with no actors, is at the Albany in Deptford tonight. The fine Barcelona-based company, Artesbandes, premiere their new show, All In, at Home in Manchester. Lost Dog’s terrific Paradise Lost (Lies Unopened Beside Me) makes you look at Milton anew and it’s at Cambridge Junction tonight. The new one from Tom Wells, Folk, a not-so-holy story about hope and singing, opens at Birmingham Rep. The always surprising and enjoyable Backstage in Biscuit Land is at the Point in Eastleigh tonight before heading to Artsdepot in London tomorrow.Friday and the weekendThis Restless House, Zinnie Harris’s trilogy based on the Oresteia, opens at the Citizens theatre in Glasgow. At the Arena in Wolverhampton you can catch an astonishing performance from Lucy Jane Parkinson as Joan in a retelling of the Joan of Arc. At Home in Manchester there’s great fun to be had with the terrific Don Quijote which takes a power saw to Cervantes’ novel. Kelly Hunter’s Hamlet, Who’s There? features six actors, one sofa and a drum kit as it explores the nature of grief to shed a light on mental health issues – see it at the Mercury in Colchester tonight and tomorrow. On Saturday and Sunday Light Up provides an evening of circus, spoken word, parkour and digital wizardry at Queen’s Crescent in north London as part of Circus Fest 16.