1 Jason Bourne (12A)  (Paul Greengrass, 2016, US) 123 mins.Since Bourne’s retirement, nothing has quite delivered that same blend of superhuman action and geopolitical seriousness, so it’s good to have him back. The globe-hopping itinerary of frantic chases and CIA machinations is familiar, but it’s all underpinned by a healthy measure of Snowden-era data paranoia to keep things current.2 Author: The JT LeRoy Story (15)(Jeff Feuerzeig, 2016, US) 111 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Truth and fiction become relative concepts in this bizarre tale of a literary sensation who attracted a cult following but turned out to be a fiction himself. On paper, a damaged, transgender ex-junkie and hustler, JT LeRoy was in fact dreamed up by a 30-year-old woman, and played in real life by her boyfriend’s sister. That’s just the start of the weirdness, as this fascinating confessional documentary reveals.3 Star Trek Beyond (12A)(Justin Lin, 2016, US) 122 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest All the Trekkie boxes ticked in a perfectly satisfying space adventure that starts with a bang (namely crashing the Enterprise and stranding the crew on Idris Elba’s alien planet) and maintains its momentum with some well-timed comedy and spectacular action.4 The BFG (PG)(Steven Spielberg, 2016, UK/Can/US) 117 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Roald Dahl’s gentle giant comes to life via Mark Rylance and some effects magic for a heartfelt family movie with a distinctly British feel. Our hero’s bond with a regular-sized orphan girl makes for an adventure mixing action and emotion, enchantment and fart gags.5 Finding Dory (U)(Andrew Stanton, Angus MacLane, 2015, US) 103 mins.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Dory’s family quest anchors an underwater sequel that’s visually dazzling and consistently amusing, with a measure of that family-centric weepiness Pixar does so well. It’s often happier to tread water than swim into the unknown, but it’s a world we’re happy to immerse ourselves in.