In 2002, Cathi Hanauer, an American journalist, edited a collection of essays that went on, in the US at least, to be a bestseller: The Bitch in the House, in which 26 female writers told “the truth about sex, solitude, work, motherhood and marriage”. The book was, as Zoë Heller noted at the time, what you might call an antidote to the lie of domestic bliss: the authors, having grown up in the expectation of equality, were pretty furious at the status quo. More to the point, they were knackered. Why had no one told them that trying to have it all would be so stressful?Almost 15 years on, Hanauer has now put together The Bitch Is Back, a kind of sequel to that book. Nine of her original contributors, together with 16 new ones, this time report on “enlightened middle age” and what it has brought them, from wrinkles to a new confidence in the office, from divorce to wild affairs to enforced (and sometimes elective) celibacy. If it’s a gentler book than The Bitch in the House, anger having given way mostly to surprised acceptance, it’s also more revelatory. Given how our culture tends to treat us once we hit 45, only very rarely are we moved to be this open about how it feels. (Better, we think, to play nice than to harp on.)Of course, middle-class educated American women are in some senses a different species from their equivalents in the UK. The author of one essay describes with some approval how a friend and her new boyfriend went into couples counselling to deal with his “clutter problem” (the mind boggles); several have a tendency both to overshare and to self-praise (“One thing I have never been insecure about is my intelligence”). But the narcissists and the over-therapised are easily skipped. Head instead straight to Debora L Spar’s sparky piece about the lure of plastic surgery and just how a facelift might fit with her job as the president of a women’s college; or, even better, to Sarah Crichton’s funny, touching and ultimately cheering account of how she got her sex life going again after leaving a marriage of 30-odd years’ duration.The Bitch Is Back is published by William Morrow & Co (£16.99). Click here to buy it for £13.93