Jonathan Ross has thrown his support behind Danny Baker’s plans to crowdfund his own radio station which, Baker said, he would run “like Peter Cook used to run Private Eye”.Baker said he would “pull together the best radio talent I know” for the station and take inspiration from Leicester City leading the Premier League.Baker, who still has a Saturday morning show on BBC Radio 5 Live, said he was “not joking” about his plans and that he would run the station “like Peter Cook used to run Private Eye. I will only interfere should someone say ‘banter’ or praise Queen”.Ross, the ITV talkshow host who presented Radio 2’s Saturday morning show for a decade, told Baker on Twitter: “United Artists!! I’m in, if you want me.”Danny Baker (@prodnose)So good evening everyone. Let non-generic free of media-course radio be our toast. We can do this! Details soon. pic.twitter.com/X1cgBp2fMbMarch 21, 2016Baker, who first revealed his plans for a crowdfunded station on Monday, has appeared critical of the broadcasting establishment while continuing to work for the BBC.“Not joking. Radio is my degree. My expertise. Been at it too long to take notes from some fucking college kid,” he added. It is understood he is meeting potential partners for the new station this week.He has since revealed more plans for the station – some comments tongue in cheek, others less so, on Twitter.“Think Leicester winning the league is a top omen for a free thinking, just do what you do, new radio station. Things are changing. Let’s go,” said Baker.“I hope when we can ask for crowdfunding you can help. For my part I will pull together the best radio talent I know, most of whom for weird reasons are now outside the “machine’. As I say, if you rejoice in Leicester winning the league ... come with us.”He added: “As I’ve told management over the years, its not important I get along with YOU so long as I get along with THE AUDIENCE. But they HATE that.“As far as content goes Radio Free Europe (provisional title) will be giddy and happy and clever. Where ‘No News is Good News’. Literally.”It is a source of frustration for Baker that he currently only has one show on the radio after he was dropped from BBC Radio London – 94.9, as it was then – four years ago.He was also closely involved in the return of Chris Evans’s TFI Friday to Channel 4 last year, and adapted his autobiography for BBC2’s Cradle to Grave, also last year.Danny Baker (@prodnose)So, for now, that's goodnight from me and just some of my Sony Gold Radio Awards! #HardlyOnRadioAtAll pic.twitter.com/4VIWaQN7s9March 21, 2016Baker said: “Radio in this country is rationed like the Soviet Union. How? Why? Tell Americans we have, like, 20 or 30 stations it blows their minds.“There’ll be NO meeting rooms at the station. Any more than there were meeting rooms in music halls. There’s an audience – DO something.”He added: “As soon as the crowdfunding target has been calculated I will post its details. Thank you for all the early encouragement. Things have accelerated at extraordinary rate in last 3 hours. Looks like we really will have a radio station.“Don’t forget! Every morning on our new breakfast show the 100th caller gets to buy dinner for the 101st! #CrowdFundedRadio.”