The question of safety came up early in a discussion about promoting my new book, Nightwanderers. Was it responsible, I asked my publicist and editor, to show teenage girl friends creeping from their bedrooms after dark, to wander their home turf in the moonlight?It’s something I did as a teenager with one of the friends who inspired the character of Titania De Furia. She led me, breathless, through the deluxe garden of her rich neighbour, past his babbling rush of brook, and with cool, dewy air on our faces, we were giggling and tickled and free.We’d met in Bad Times. Before my parents sussed out how to divide childcare fairly, time with my mum meant weekly sleepovers in this new friend’s spare bedroom. Her dad had left for another woman, the story went, and once us kids were in bed we’d hear the notes of Cher’s Love and Understanding, the clink of ice. After midnight, as the mothers slept, we’d let the door off the catch, running into the night, those indecipherable things far behind us. We leapt like mad things, and laughed our heads off, strong and wild and capable of anything.No taboo should be off limits when writing for teenagers Later, I found my own novices to enlighten. We dressed in black, one sawdust-threaded balaclava between three, and gave ourselves burglar names, Bill and Biff and Betty, the books of our childhoods still high on our reference lists. We wandered streets and gardens with butterflies buffeting our stomachs, the queens of our own private suburbia until, just before sunrise, we crept back in through my bedroom window – careful not to disturb my sleeping dad – let the adrenalin dissipate, and slept.Was this behaviour safe? It never crossed my mind. A huge part of nightwandering’s appeal was that it was forbidden, but I don’t remember considering why this was the case. Sneaking out after midnight was a pleasure throughout my adolescence, and something I visited in my first novel, Infinite Sky, in which Iris, the 12-year-old protagonist slips out after dark to meet a boy. During a recent school visit, a teacher admitted that this part of the story had given him nightmares. “I have a 13-year-old daughter, see,” he said, ruefully, as though this should speak for itself. And it did. I understood why the scene in which Iris meets her Irish Traveller boyfriend in a cornfield alarmed him, in spite of the fact that the characters share only one chaste kiss, preferring to swim in the lake and talk through problems to which no one else will listen. I wonder if this teacher would have had fewer nightmares if it was a 13-year-old boy that slept in the bedroom nearby.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘The idea of women’s freedoms being curbed for our own protection is mirrored in the pervading rape culture of today’: CJ FloodAs a teen, my older brother was allowed to roam further than me, and to stay out later, disproportionate to our ages. This, I inferred from the various rows and pleading discussions that took place on the subject, was due to biology. Us girls had the facilities to get pregnant, and the best way to prevent this disaster was to keep us extra safe, preferably, it seemed, at home or at the homes of pals. In their 1977 essay Girls and Subcultures, Angela McRobbie and Jenny Garber talk about the indoor leisure pursuit of trying on clothes and experimenting with make-up, and how it might have, in part, explained the relative absence of young females in late 20th-century subcultural groups (think punks, mods, bikers). Looking back, it’s evident how this type of indoor activity was sanctioned by our parents, via pizza and videos and ice cream; how neatly it fit with their predilection to keep daughters indoors. The idea of our freedoms being curbed for our own protection is mirrored in the pervading rape culture of today, which puts the onus of women’s safety strictly in their own hands. We are encouraged to dress modestly, and not talk to strangers. To watch our drinks for roofies, and not have so many vodkas that our judgement is impaired. To be careful who we invite home, and not walk through parks at night alone. To not make eye-contact with strangers in the street, or respond to catcalls. To plant our feet firmly so we can’t be toppled over. To wear sensible shoes. To keep our wits about us, and let people know where we are.  laughing at something weakens its power The list goes on and on. “Text me when you get home,” we say to each other. For years, I’ve walked home alone, defiantly taking shortcuts that make my heart race, in spite of dear friends’ beseechments to get taxis and avoid parks and jitties. “Just between the really dangerous hours,” my best friend said once, by which she meant between 3 and 5am. The unpalatable truth, of course, is that more women are attacked by men they know than by strangers, and that these attacks can take place indoors with soft lighting as easily as in lamp-post-less back streets.“I’ve been murdered,” we text back from the safety of our beds. Not because women being raped and murdered is hilarious, but because laughing at something weakens its power. A web of irony around your flesh and bones can make them feel impervious to the violence of men.Why there are no taboos in Scandinavian children's books “The night promises harm to women,” wrote Andrea Dworkin in The Night and Danger, in 1979.  The truth is that men do experience freedom of movement and freedom in action and that women do not. We must recognise that freedom of movement is a precondition for freedom of anything else. It comes before freedom of speech in importance because without it freedom of speech cannot in fact exist. So when we women struggle for freedom, we must begin at the beginning and fight for freedom of movement, which we have not had and do not now have. In reality, we are not allowed out after dark.Cheryl Strayed, in her memoir, Wild, discusses the way in which women are still considered brave (or foolish) for travelling a significant distance alone, unlike their male counterparts, and the dread that this bias can generate.  It was a deal I’d made with myself months before and the only thing that allowed me to hike alone. I knew that if I allowed fear to overtake me, my journey was doomed. Fear, to a great extent, is born of a story we tell ourselves, and so I chose to tell myself a different story from the one women are told. I decided I was safe. I was strong. I was brave. Nothing could vanquish me.This double standard bothers me in its injustice, but also in its inaccuracy. I know men who would be hard pushed to defend themselves against an attacker; women who would stand a fighting chance. I know women who have been assaulted while travelling alongside a man. Terrible violence happens, and the person who needs to change their behaviour is the perpetrator.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Reese Witherspoon in the 2014 film, Wild. Photograph: Allstar/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURESMen are not safe from being attacked, but as a culture we believe them to be, and this allows them to travel more freely, gives them psychic protection. Strayed gave herself this protection through mind control; similar to that which I exercised during my, albeit, somewhat shorter walks through pitch-black parks after midnight. If we believe we are safe, we enjoy increased liberty. Sexual violence is real, but fear around it is disproportionate and misplaced, due in part to the prevailing myth that rapists are dangerous strangers, prowling parks and back streets, rather than men that walk among us, and who many of us have or will invite into our homes.  Terrible things happen in spite of the precautions we take, but the world is too glorious and complicated to hide from. In the end, my publicist and editor, and the teen magazines that will publish me, recommended that when encouraging young women to nightwander I ask them to leave their houses in groups, and just before sunrise; and to take a guardian if they are under 16. More longsighted advice for our teenage girls might be to learn a martial art, and gain some upper body strength. At 33, I am beginning to take this advice myself.There’s a scene I wrote after the book had been printed, in which best friends, Rosie and Ti, bask in each other, and the freedom they have stolen for themselves, and the early Cornish sunlight. It’s a beautiful moment, something rare enough that I’ve experienced it with only my most beloved friends. Their minds are free from fear as they walk, and they are safe, as my friends and I were safe. Webchat: teen fiction and taboos – live Terrible things happen in spite of the precautions we take, but the world is too glorious and complicated to hide from, and so I urge you to be unafraid, as I will urge my teenage readers to be unafraid, to not curtail your own freedom or listen to those who would have it curtailed, even for your own safety.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  CJ Flood is the author of Infinite Sky and Nightwanderers (Simon & Schuster), both of which are available from the Guardian Bookshop.