It took several months, and a little help from some dancing clowns, for Juju on that Beat to become a viral meme. It started off as the TZ Anthem Challenge, in which kids had to replicate the dance moves performed in a video clip made by 15-year-old Zay Hilfigerrr, set to music that he had co-written. By the end of this summer, everyone from seven-year-olds in snapback caps to teenage girls in sumo suits had filmed themselves taking up the challenge. And it took Atlantic Records just five days to turn TZ Anthem into Juju on that Beat, a tune that could make both them and the song’s creators a whole lot of money.The song, which borrows its beat from Crime Mob’s Knuck If You Buck and whose chorus is a series of playful dance instructions, was written in a few idle moments by Hilfigerrr and 17-year-old Zayion McCall. “Juju on that beat, Juju on that beat,” its hook demands, using a term the pair made up after taking inspiration from recently coined dance moves like the whip and nae nae. “Now slide, drop / Hit dem folks, don’t stop, aye … / Running man on that beat.” They uploaded the song to YouTube with an accompanying dance video, where it caught the attention of Fresh the Clowns, a dance troupe from Detroit with an impressive social media following. Once their version of the dance began to gain traction, high-school junior Hannah Talliere followed suit with a video tweet that has since between retweeted more than 260,000 times. From there, the song and the challenge blew up.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest That’s the short version. For young people who engage with viral trends on a daily basis, to explain its trajectory in this way is completely unnecessary. For those who do not, the whole thing can sound like another language – one that the music industry is scrambling to learn.I emailed Hilfigerrr and McCall a few questions. Their answers were about as cheerfully brief as you might expect from a couple of teenagers with far better things to be doing. “We wrote it for fun!” they reply when I ask if the idea of becoming a viral meme was in their minds when the song came about. And what, I ask, was more important in making it go viral, the song or the dance? “Both are very important.” In other words, they are not particularly interested in dissecting the intricacies of viral fame, or overthinking something that they created for their own amusement. As far as Hilfigerrr and McCall are concerned, it just is.The business side – the ability to take notice of and commodify a type of music, which now moves faster than ever – is down to the record label that snapped them up. When the pair were signed by Atlantic Records, the song was not even available to download. Within five days of them signing on the dotted line, it was up on iTunes. It soon reached No 8 on the Billboard Hot 100, and it is now slowly climbing the UK charts, entering the Top 40 last Friday.More startling are the online stats: the track itself, with no video, uploaded by McCall has had nearly 34m YouTube views, while the official video has had nearly 11m. But the real proof of its reach lies in the challenge videos – the dancing clowns have had more than 21m views; a compilation of people dancing has had nearly 17m views; a four-year-old dancing to the track on the Ellen show has had 12m views. Scores more videos have topped the million-view mark. Meanwhile, at the time of writing, Juju on that Beat has had just short of 48m plays on Spotify.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Juju on that Beat is the latest in a string of songs to have become memes in the last few years. Some, such as Finatticz’s Don’t Drop that Thun Thun, went viral several years after the track’s initial release. In that instance, the song’s sudden surge in popularity was down to a twerking trend on Vine – the recent demise of which may have lasting repercussions for the way memes spread. Then there is Silento’s Watch Me (Whip/Nae Nae) – the track that inspired the irreverence of Juju on that Beat. Like Hilfigerrr and McCall’s release, it featured catchy lyrics and a distinctive, imitatable dance, and its video has had more than a billion views on YouTube. The biggest memes – such as 2013’s Harlem Shake – become inescapable, recreated by sports teams and celebrities.If catchy lyrics and copyable dance moves were enough to spawn a meme, record companies would have been able to churn out viral hit after viral hit. But it is not that simple. “If someone or some entity can crack that code and harness the power of memes,” says Shontavia Jackson of Drake University, Iowa, who has published award-winning articles on memetic theory, “they could unlock the ability to reach millions of people. Social media entities may be countering some of this with their new algorithms and methods of disseminating content, but viral information may be impossible to contain.”Rebecca Black certainly has no idea why Friday, the song and video her mother paid a record label a modest sum to produce in late 2010, went viral. Aged 13 at the time, Black was thrust into a sea of vitriol and mockery – peppered with the occasional show of enthusiasm for what was essentially a harmless earworm – in the space of just a few days. Friday has now had more than 100m views on YouTube, and more than 2m dislikes. For Black, being part of a viral meme was never the intention. Nor was it an easy wave to ride. “I was just too young to really process it,” she says. “Putting on a brave face and acting as if I was totally OK was the only way I knew how to cope with it. I can see now how tough it was.”With five years’ distance from it, though, and a new single that holds its own among Black’s pop contemporaries, it seems Friday was a wave worth riding. After all, it’s unlikely that her moody, electro-pop banger The Great Divide would have had more than 2.3m YouTube views in the past two months if it were not for her viral beginnings.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest It is an intangible formula that makes songs such as Friday and Juju on that Beat catch on. If someone sets out with the intention of creating a viral meme, they are often destined to fail. Social media users can sniff out corporate cynicism from a mile away, so as soon as brands jump on the bandwagon, the general population tends to jump off and move on.Sometimes, though, as is the case with Watch Me (Whip/Nae Nae), the process is not quite as organic as it seems. The success of one of the biggest viral hits of last year was at least partly down to a company named DanceOn, co-founded by Madonna. The company is the brainchild of Amanda Taylor, who spotted a gap in the viral meme market for “a third party that wasn’t the individual artist and wasn’t the platform”. In return for a percentage of an artist’s revenues, DanceOn recruits its members to help make a song or dance video go viral and is completely upfront about it – its website boasts of how it “bridges the gap between dancers, brand partners, technology and the entertainment industry”.With Silento’s permission, DanceOn enlisted 50 of its members to create unofficial dance videos for Watch Me (Whip/Nae Nae), racking up 250m YouTube views in a matter of months. The song’s weekly streams nearly doubled, its sales tripled and Silento was signed to Capitol Records.But for DanceOn’s shrewd business acumen to amount to anything, the source material had to be right. The company threw its support behind Silento’s single because it knew it was on the brink of becoming viral anyway. And for every Watch Me (Whip/Nae Nae) DanceOn has helped launch, countless others have fallen by the wayside. After all, if the formula for memes could be bottled, Simon Cowell would surely have bought a cellar full by now.