“Just a bunch of B-roll,” is how a colleague unpersuaded by Cameraperson (Dogwoof, 15) described documentary cinematographer Kirsten Johnson’s remarkable directorial debut to me. He’s not alone in his scepticism: despite passionate critical hosannas, Oscar voters failed to nominate the film, preferring more traditional models of what nonfiction film can be.But what B-roll this is. A darting, dazzling visual diary of a life behind the lens for such film-makers as Michael Moore and Laura Poitras, Cameraperson assembles what initially seems a disparate selection of footage from Johnson’s career: from Moore interviewing an Iraq veteran in DC to a Nigerian maternity ward straining under pressure, from a Muslim family’s farm in Bosnia to Johnson’s own rural family homestead, where her dementia-stricken mother returns the camera’s caress with stray gestures of maternal intimacy. We Are the Flesh leaves no stomach unturned in pursuit of its singular vision Through the film’s globe-spanning snippets, a piercing inquiry as to the photographer’s level of investment in, and responsibility to, her subjects emerges. Johnson herself is rarely on screen, but her involuntary expressions of empathetic pain, concern and curiosity occasionally invade the soundtrack as they never would in a finished documentary. The cameraperson’s invisibility has never been more beautifully exposed.One to be filed under “bad ideas that somehow should have turned out worse”, Trolls (DreamWorks, U) represents about the most charming film spin-off that could have been made for the repulsive rainbow-haired plastic dolls of the 1980s. Which is to say it genuinely charms for at least a few of its 90 painless minutes, thanks to a happy decision to demote barely-there plot mechanics – hinging on the threat of troll-eating giants – for pop mechanics instead: a cheese-spread assortment of Glee-style musical numbers covering everyone from Cyndi Lauper to Lionel Richie. Anna Kendrick and Justin Timberlake are the merry-makers-in-chief; the latter’s original, Oscar-nominated earworm of a soundtrack contribution, Can’t Stop the Feeling, is a good litmus test for how infectious or irritating (or both) you’ll find Trolls as a whole.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   We are the Flesh: ‘heroically repellent’.It puts a sunnier spin on cannibalism than We Are the Flesh (Arrow, 18), a heroically repellent horror hell-portal from Mexican first-time director Emiliano Rocha Minter that leaves no stomach unturned in pursuit of its singular vision. Blood is not the only bodily fluid that flows freely through this flayed fairytale about a homeless brother and sister offered refuge by a, well, trollish old reprobate – an act of dubious charity that comes with certain inhuman, incestuous conditions. Minter conducts this nightmare with an impressive blend of delight and despair, the camera painting it in every conceivable shade of meat – it goes without saying that this is a grossly acquired taste. Still, it’s less grisly than watching a vest-clad Mel Gibson go through the revenge porn motions of the capably lurid B-thriller Blood Father (Warner, 15), so pick your poison.The rerelease of the week comes at the right time for those complaining that La La Land, for all its accolades, doesn’t hold a candle to Hollywood’s golden-age musicals. Immaculately preserved in boiled sweet Technicolor from 1944, Cover Girl (Eureka, U) is a wisp of a showbiz romance given wings on its feet courtesy of a glorious Gershwin-Kern song score. Gene Kelly’s feet, of course, need no such extra assistance; he’s in his first blush of stardom here, opposite a never more resplendent Rita Hayworth, and their joint vivacity and beauty is positively soul-saving.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Édouard Tremblay-Grenier in Philippe Lesage’s ‘exquisite’ The Demons.Rarely do I recommend an unheralded title on the Mubi.com menu with as much personal fervour as I do The Demons, now in its last week on the streaming service. An elegant, upsetting astonishment of a debut from French-Canadian director Philippe Lesage, this child’s eye tangle of threats both real and imagined made my top 10 of 2015 from its San Sebastián premiere, but never found UK distribution. That’s a shame: Lesage demonstrates stylistic poise worthy of Michael Haneke in this cool-toned but compassionate study of a 10-year-old boy cottoning on to the possibilities of sexuality, adult weakness and human evil in suburban Montreal. A challenging mid-narrative break in perspective will divide audiences, but this is exquisite, essential film-making. Mubi is heroic for bringing it to light.