There’s a moment in The End of the Tour, a recent film based on the transcripts of a meeting between Rolling Stone reporter David Lipsky and the late American novelist David Foster Wallace, in which the writer likens the act of watching television to masturbation. Both activities, he argues, offer a pleasurable way to spend a few minutes. Both activities may also highlight deeper issues if allowed to become a person’s primary habit. “At least with masturbation some action is being performed,” says Lipsky. “Isn’t that better?”Wallace is unmoved. “Yes, you’re performing muscular movements,” he says. “But what you’re really doing is running a movie, having a fantasy relationship with somebody who is not real, strictly to stimulate a neurological response.”Lipsky and Wallace’s observations combine to offer a perspicacious summary of the delights and dangers of the video game medium: onanistic action, vivid fantasy and the final, endorphin-soaked neurological climax. The aesthetic of total enclosure inside a screen-laced helmet makes freshly clear the risks of screen reliance Wallace was obsessed with what he viewed as the perilous allure of television. He refused to have a set in his home because, as he put it to Lipsky in 1996: “If I had one I would watch it all the time.” Had Wallace given in to TV’s siren call, the world almost certainly wouldn’t have been gifted his masterwork, Infinite Jest, a 1,000-page novel about a piece of film said to be so dangerously entertaining that its viewers become irresistibly entranced, to the point of death. The premise is a dramatic exaggeration, but it proved prophetic. Every year, a handful of young men (it’s always men) die sitting at their computers when playing video games for extended periods.Wallace also lays out to Lipsky his concerns about virtual reality. “As… VR pornography becomes a reality, we will have to develop some real machinery inside our guts to turn off pure unalloyed pleasure,” he says, before adding, with grim foreshadowing, “Or I’m going to have to leave the planet.” (Wallace, who suffered from enduring depression, took his life in 2008.)VR technology, which emerged in the late 1980s, had faltered when Wallace was speaking. Today it’s poised for mass revival, with Facebook, Samsung, HTC and Sony all releasing headsets in 2016, each supported by hundreds of VR video games. There are already numerous film studios around the world dedicated to making live-action VR porn. “[It is going to become] more and more pleasurable to sit alone, with images on a screen given to us by people who do not love us, but who want our money,” said Wallace. “That’s fine in low doses, but if it’s the mainstay of your diet you’re going to die. In a very meaningful way, you are going to die.”Last month, a photograph of a battalion of potbellied American tech journalists wearing Oculus Rift VR headsets while attending a Samsung press conference was widely shared. Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg can be seen striding past their oblivious ranks. What was intended to be an inspiring display of the miracle of human technological progress comes across, in this image, as something pitiable and eerie, as if humanity has discovered some irresistible arcane prop in which first pleasure, then destruction is to be found. The scene, however, is not alien. Our species’ emigration into screens for both work and play has, for decades, been steady and unrelenting. The VR helmet simply completes the unnatural attachment by blocking out all peripheral vision, while the umbilical cord twizzles from head to computer.Virtual reality, like every other television, computer and smartphone screen that already lights up our lives, is a window through which knowledge, transformation, empathy and wonder can be delivered (as well as every one of their ugly antonyms). The aesthetic of total enclosure inside a screen-laced helmet makes freshly clear the risks of screen reliance, the power of soul-distracting illusions, which have the capacity to nourish and redeem, and to make us puerile and dependent.