The track I’ll be opening my next DJ set with Uncanny Alliance: I Got My Education (Ken Lou Extended Mix) My next set is at a house and ballroom event, so a track like this is perfect. The extended mix is great to let run so the dancers can groove, catch the vibe of the track and loosen their limbs.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The track that currently gets the most rewinds Akito: Metamessage (Murlo & Famous Eno Remix)    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest One of the biggest club tracks and remixes in the last couple of years. The original is brilliant, but Murlo and Famous Eno made it into the most ridiculous skanker. It’s the closest to what I imagine voodoo magic to be like.The track I wish I’d signed to my label Unknown DJ: Basstronic (Instrumental)    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This was introduced to me through The New Dance Show, an old Detroit music TV show. It still sounds so fresh and I’d have loved to have put this out on Trax Couture.The track I’d play to show off my eclectic tastes Nicola Conte: Arabesque    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I haven’t actually played this in any recent DJ sets, but maybe I should. I used to hold a weekly residency at a five-star hotel’s cocktail bar when I was 21, playing strictly this sort of stuff along with some old salsa, even bossa nova too, all on vinyl.The track I wish I’d never played Snoop Dogg: Who Am I (What’s My Name)    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest At a family party at my house when I was a kid, I first discovered gangsta rap. I played this full blast to my whole family, much to my parents’ disgust. One of those moments when you wish you had that invisibility cloak.The track I’d play at my funeral DJ Rashad & Gant-Man: Heaven Sent    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Uptempo new-school Chicago business from the one and only DJ Rashad (RIP) and the legendary Gant-Man. I had the pleasure of hosting Rashad and Spinn at one of my old club nights, Rhythm Talk. He was a huge inspiration to me, and still is. The melodies on this resonate with me so much, and evoke a happy type of sad in me, which is a sentiment I’d like expressed at my funeral. It’s got a pretty abrupt ending, too – perfect! Rushmore plays Camden Assembly, NW1, Sat