Words do things to people. And the most potent words, the ones that have a direct line to the emotions, are profanity. Profane words uniquely allow you to express pain or cause it in others. They peerlessly demonstrate frustration, anger or emphasis. But let’s be specific. I mean words such as cocksucker. Or fuck.These are among the taboo words of English that elicit the strongest measurable physiological reactions – the fastest pulse, the sweatiest palms, the shallowest breath. These words are versatile. Name a feeling and profanity can elicit it. Profanity can increase sexual arousal. It can increase your ability to withstand pain (compare the analgesic effect of yelling “fuck!” when you hammer your thumb with the effect of yelling “duck!”).When deployed appropriately, profanity can cause delight; countless comedians stake their professional lives on the impact of “working blue”. But when miscalibrated, the use of the very same words can make you seem crude, uneducated or out of control. In their darkest incarnation, profane words can be part of verbal abuse and they can denigrate and disempower people. (See Trump’s “grab them by the pussy”.) And because these words have such an outsize impact, we ban them. We chastise children for using them and fine or arrest adults who use them around children. Because the words are just too powerful.What makes a word profane? Looking at English as it manifests itself across the world, we see hints of both consistency and variability. English profanity tends to be drawn from four categories of words. The word profanity originally referred to the first group. In Latin, profanus literally means “outside the temple”, denoting words or acts that desecrate the holy.For some people, the use of religious words in secular ways constitutes blasphemy – a sin against religious doctrine – and this is the pathway that makes those terms taboo. The names of religious figures, such as Jesus Christ, Jehovah or Muhammad, are easy fodder. So are aspects of religious dogma. In English, we have a few of these, such as holy, hell, God, damn. There are also older English curse words that have fallen out of favour, such as “gadzooks”, from God’s hooks (the nails used in the Crucifixion). The first place English profanity originates is the sacred. For contemporary English speakers, the worst words are derogatory terms based on their ethnicity The second is in language relating to sex and sexual acts. This includes the acts themselves, sex organs, people who perform those acts and artefacts and effluvia related to those acts. So the second prong of our profanity principle is sex.Third is language involving other bodily functions – things that come out of your body, the process of expelling them and the parts of your body they come out of. This includes robust cohorts of words describing faeces, urine and vomit, among others, as well as the associated body parts and the artefacts used in the upkeep of those body parts, such as douchebag.Finally there are the slurs. Among the most offensive words in the Anglophone world are words made offensive by dint of their derogatory reference to people based on a group they’re perceived to belong to, defined in terms of sex, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion and so on.Looking just at English, you’ll find that nearly all the most profane words in Great Britain, New Zealand and the United States fall into one of these four categories: praying, fornicating, excreting and slurring. Can this pattern be generalised? If it captures something about human nature or about the inevitable evolution of cultural systems, then you’d expect it to apply broadly.Alternatively, English speakers might be a breed apart, uniquely obsessed with religion, copulation, bodily functions and social groups. If you pick your favourite language other than English, how does profanity work? What’s profane in Cantonese? How about Finnish? Pretty well. Most of the profane vocabulary in most languages that have accessible documentation is drawn from one of these four categories. That’s not to say there aren’t local exceptions. One is language about animals – calling someone a dog in Korea is deeply offensive, for example. Disease often creeps into profanity and a salient example is Dutch, which counts among its strong profanities words for cancer, typhoid and tuberculosis. But for the most part, when a language and culture designate a stable set of words as profane – where the words themselves are deemed inappropriate and offensive – these largely fall into the four categories.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   In Korea, calling someone a dog is deeply offensive. Photograph: Richard Rayner/PACuriously, though, not all languages hew to the principle in the same proportions. Quebecois French makes heavy use of what it calls sacres (“consecrations”): strong profanities related to Catholicism and Catholic liturgical concepts. Far stronger than merde (“shit”) or foutre (“fuck”) in Quebec are tabarnack (“tabernacle”), calisse (“chalice”) and calvaire (“Calvary”). This is despite, or due to, the fact that Quebeckers have largely lost their religion. Sexual language is more pervasive. A good example is Cantonese, which uses words for the act of copulation like diu or relevant body parts, as its strongest terms.But not English. The bulk of the words that contemporary native speakers consider worst are derogatory terms for individuals or groups, especially ones based on their ethnicity. In English, these slurs are not only based on ethnicity but also on sexual orientation, immigration status and health condition.Ultimately, two things are clear. First, languages tend to draw from similar domains for their profanity. That suggests that the forces that make words become profane in English may be present across human experience, regardless of native language. And second, despite similarities across languages, cultural idiosyncrasies do play a role in shaping how profanity in a language will work and be distributed. Languages spoken by people with a cultural history of uniform religious practice (for instance, Catholicism) can become populated with holy profanity –words for heaven and hell and saints and demons. If you were clever, you might even say that when it comes to cultural differences in profanity, the devil is in the detail. Or maybe not.Benjamin Bergen is professor of cognitive science, University of San Diego, and author of What The F: What Swearing Reveals about Our Language, Our Brains and Ourselves