A book created from the words of the main character Charlie, as he writes to his imaginary friend.Charlie has just started attending high school. Nobody talks to him, nobody sits next to him, so he reads a book in a corner and is utterly alone. His childhood changed when he was small, because his beloved aunt unfortunately died in a car accident on the day of his birthday. From that moment, he started to hear odd voices in his head. Fortunately, every voice has disappeared when he met his best friend. But then, another bad incident occurred in Charlie’s life – his friend committed suicide. After a few days in high school, Charlie meets Sam and Patrick: step-siblings who show him a brand new world full of fun, love and friendship. And Charlie is – at least for a while – “infinitely happy’’.But what happens when Sam and Patrick leaves for the university? And what about his beloved aunt? Is Charlie hiding something deep in his mind?This beautiful book shows us that nobody is perfect. Everybody has some secret which is not meant to be revealed. But with a group full of wonderful friends who will support you no matter what happens, life is so much easier. And inifinite.I have discovered the book thanks to watching the movie. Fortunately, it didn’t matter that I already knew the plot as I have been reading it with a feeling that this book is really a treasure of a literature. You know the kind of books when you just want to persuade everyone to read it? Well, this is not kind of that book. Believe me, you would like to have it only for yourself, because this book has amazing opinions and you will feel that this is the book you – and only you – were waiting to find and read. Amazing story which I read in a matter of few days, but which revives strong emotions in me, even now, two years after. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!