The trial of Archers character Helen Titchener, whose plight has prompted a national debate about domestic abuse, a huge fundraising campaign and a push for prison reform, began on Sunday. The opening of the court case in which Titchener, played by Louiza Patikas, faces jail for stabbing her husband Rob, who subjected her to domestic abuse, has elicited renewed calls from charities for more to be done for real-life victims.Sandra Horley, chief executive of Refuge, said: “When Helen stabbed Rob, she clearly felt that her life – and the life of her child – was under threat from an aggressive man. Listeners have heard Rob alternate between charm and abuse, subjecting Helen to years of psychological torture as well as physical violence. Sadly, Helen’s experiences mirror what so many abused women feel and experience every day – she has been manipulated and controlled by a violent and bullying partner. “If you have been moved by Helen’s story, I would urge you to consider the real-life Helens Refuge supports every day.”A Helen Titchener Fund, set up by Archers listener and Refuge supporter Paul Trueman has already raised more than £130,000 for the charity, and Horley urged people to continue to donate to reach the target of £150,000. That would be the equivalent of almost 2,900 nights in a refuge for a woman and her children “at a time when domestic violence services are experiencing huge cuts”, she said.As the storyline intensified in February, there was a 17% increase in calls to the national domestic violence helpline, run by Refuge and Women’s Aid.As the trial opened, the prosecution tried to portray Helen Titchener as an unstable woman who had left her abusive husband in fear, before stabbing him.Rob Titchener claimed that she threatened to stop him seeing the child she was carrying and that he tried to restrain her to protect her from herself. But his mask slipped briefly as he responded angrily to questions from the defence about his quick temper.Ahead of the opening of the trial, which will run over a week’s worth of episodes, listeners expressed their support for Helen on Twitter, as well as for the plight of real-life victims. BBC presenters Jenny Murray and Sara Cox were among those who posted pictures of themselves drinking tea with the hashtags #solidaritea and #FreeHelen.Jenni Murray (@whjm)In solidari-tea #FreeHelen pic.twitter.com/RiEcQnteJMAugust 29, 2016sara cox (@sarajcox)Proud to show my solidari-tea against coercive control and domestic abuse #FreeHelen pic.twitter.com/3cEd9oZSxnSeptember 2, 2016But the disturbing plot has been criticised by some listeners accustomed to more genteel happenings in the “everyday story of countryfolk” in the fictional town of Ambridge, while others have debated its realism. Audience figures dipped slightly in the first three months of the year compared with the last three months of 2015. But the story’s far-reaching impact was highlighted in May when then justice secretary Michael Gove said Helen’s plight had “shone a light on the position of women in our prisons and reinforces the case for reform”.Helen, who faces up to 12 years in jail for attempted murder, has already given birth while in custody. The soap’s editor, Sean O’Connor, who has been working on the plot with charities and legal advisers, promised “both a shocking and deeply moving trial”.The number for the national domestic violence freephone helpline is 0808 2000 247.• This article was amended on 5 September 2016. An earlier version said Helen Titchener faced the certainty of given birth while in custody. She has already done so.