Golden Globes 2016: just rewards for The Revenant – and an incredible coup for The Martian Last night’s Golden Globes ceremony gave host Ricky Gervais the chance to offend some more of Hollywood’s elite and a range of stars the opportunity to swear and joke their way to list-worthy infamy.Here’s our pick of the night’s most memorable lines:      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ricky Gervais and Mel Gibson Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP What the fuck does ‘sugar tits’ even mean?Ricky Gervais to Mel Gibson, referencing his infamous DUI rant from 2006      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mel Gibson presenting an award. Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP I love seeing Ricky once every three years because it reminds me to get a colonoscopy.Mel Gibson’s comeback      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Quentin Tarantino accepting the award for best original score for Ennio Morricone. Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP As far as I’m concerned, he’s my favourite composer. And when I say favorite composer, I don’t mean movie composer – that’s ghetto. I’m talking about Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert. That’s who I’m talking about.Quentin Tarantino’s misjudged use of the word “ghetto” while accepting the best original score award on behalf of Ennio Morrico      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sylvester Stallone accepting the award for best supporting actor. Photograph: HFPA/EPA I’m going to thank my imaginary friend Rocky Balboa for being the best friend I ever had.Sylvester Stallone accepting the award for best supporting actor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Lawrence winning the award for best actress in a musical or comedy. Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP I want us to be buried next to each other. I really do.Jennifer Lawrence thanks David O Russell while accepting the award for best actress in a musical or comedy      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ricky Gervais on stage. Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP He’s also the only person who Ben Affleck hasn’t been unfaithful to. Please welcome, Matt Damon!Ricky Gervais introduces Matt Damon      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alejandro González Iñárritu accepting the award for best director. Photograph: Getty Images We all in this room know very well that pain is temporary, but a film is forever right? So who cares?Alejandro González Iñárritu referencing the notoriously hellish shoot for The Revenant while winning best director      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kate Winslet backstage after winning best supporting actress. Photograph: Lucy Nicholson/Reuters I have this recurring neck problem, as I was about to leave the hotel to the carpet, I realised it’s been hurting all day. I went and booked a massage for 9pm, which I think I’ll need to cancel.Kate Winslet on her surprise at winning the award for best supporting actress for Steve Jobs      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   America Ferrera and Eva Longoria presenting an award together. Photograph: Paul Drinkwater/AP ‘Hi, I’m Eva Longoria … not Eva Mendes’‘And I’m America Ferrera … not Gina Rodriguez’‘And neither one of us are Rosario Dawson’‘Well said, Salma’Thank you, Charro’America Ferrera and Eva Longoria present an award together      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amy Schumer and Jennifer Lawrence presenting an award together. Photograph: HFPA/EPA Usually they just call me cunt.Amy Schumer on her nickname while presenting an award with Jennifer Lawrence      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lily James and Jamie Foxx presenting an award together. Photograph: Reuters And the winner is Straight Outta Compton. I’m sorry, folks. I made a mistake. It’s right here on the card. It’s right here on the card, I take full responsibility. I apologize to everybody in Compton. I apologise to Ice Cube.Jamie Foxx making a Steve Harvey/Miss America joke while presenting the award for best original score to The Hateful Eight      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ricky Gervais hosting the Golden Globes. Photograph: Reuters I want to do this monologue and go into hiding, OK? Not even Sean Penn will find me.Ricky Gervais showcases some up-to-date topicality in his opening speech      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leonardo DiCaprio accepting the award for best actor in a drama. Photograph: ddp USA/REX/Shutterstock I know in real life [he] would never bury me alive and leave me out in the cold.Leonardo DiCaprio on The Revenant co-star Tom HardyGolden Globes 2016: 10 things we learned       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ridley Scott accepting the award for best picture - musical or comedy for The Martian. Photograph: HANDOUT/Reuters My brother Tony would have been here tonight for sure, and I know many of you knew and loved him. I miss you, Tony.Ridley Scott remembering the late Tony Scott during his acceptance speech      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ricky Gervais on stage. Photograph: Handout/Getty Images When Brad and Angelina see our next two adorable presenters, they’re going to want to adopt them. Please welcome Kevin Hart and Ken Jeong.Ricky Gervais makes a crack at Brangelina