Why do people risk their lives to climb Everest? Artist Derek Eland spent six weeks living in a one-man tent at the Everest Base Camp in 2016 to find out. Fascinated by our intimate thoughts in the most challenging moments, and drawing on a previous project on the frontline in Afghanistan, he set up a confessional-style diary room where climbers were asked to write postcards about why they were there. “You hear all the success stories about those who summited,” he says, “but you never hear about the rest of the people, their lives and dreams and stories.”By the end of the climbing season Eland had accumulated hundreds of postcards written in 12 different languages, from more than 25 different countries. For Eland the written word allows people to be far more open: “There’s something poignant about seeing someone’s thoughts on a piece of paper. It provides a small portal into their soul.” Tragically, many climbers were injured and some killed, among them people who had become friends. “I got close to many of these people,” he says. “You feel like you are with them on this journey. It took me a long time to recover when I got back home.”Derek Eland: Being Human at Base Camp is at the Rheged Gallery, Penrith from 29 April to 2 July (rheged.com)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Greg Paul: summited on his third attempt, despite having two artificial knees. Photograph: Derek Eland      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marissa: waited while her husband Rob summited, but feeling unwell she died as they made their descent. Photograph: Derek Eland      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ian Gibb: wanted to climb Everest while his wife planned to be the first Welsh woman to summit Lhotse. Photograph: Derek Eland      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Katoh: climbed after his daughter died and his marriage broke down. Summiting gave him a sense his life was complete. Photograph: Derek Eland      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Maya: reached the summit and is now heralded as Nepal’s greatest female climber. Photograph: Derek Eland      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bunny: summited at the end of a year in which she lost three family members and two friends. Photograph: Derek Eland