Once upon a time, Prince Charming signed up for a reality TV show, where women vied to become his princess, all while being goaded by ratings-obsessed producers. He and his princess lived happily ever after – or at least until the cameras stopped rolling.Reality TV has always endorsed the idea of fairytale romance with pink glittery gusto, telling women that they can find their perfect man if only they look just right and laugh in all the right places. Thank the TV gods, then, for UnREAL, a brilliant, award-winning and distinctly unromantic show about the reality behind reality TV – a world where cut-throat producers cajole contestants off-camera into flirting shamelessly, vomiting up their cheese puffs and, when they really need a ratings boost, starting a race row or a cat fight.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wired and wily … Shiri Appleby as Rachel Goldberg. Photograph: Jame DittigerThe “princess” of UnREAL is Rachel Goldberg, a wired and wily producer on the reality show Everlasting who has a knack for manipulating contestants into crying on camera. The Evil Queen is Quinn (Constance Zimmer in an award-winning performance), Everlasting’s executive producer, who forces Rachel to do ever more extreme deeds to get the ratings she demands. Those deeds include date rape cover-ups, gatecrashing funerals and goading someone into committing suicide. There’s no business like showbusiness.In season one of UnREAL – which was largely overlooked by British viewers, but is available from this week on Amazon Prime – Rachel (Shiri Appleby on excellent, mad-eyed form) is trapped in a love triangle between her ex and Everlasting’s Prince Charming, Adam, though that’s where any princess similarities end. Rachel, refreshingly, looks worse than any other female character on TV, living in a truck on set and making it through each day with just a change of T-shirt, a dab of deodorant and a reversal of her dirty pants.How to catch up with … UnREAL But for all her moralising about the awful, cynical things Quinn asks her to do, Rachel is just as corrupt as her boss. Not even the audience is 100% sure when she is being genuine and when she is manipulating someone. A confrontation between her and Adam late in season one is either Rachel’s only moment of honesty, or the work of an evil genius. You suspect it’s probably the latter. Machiavelli himself would pat her on the back.There are moments of redemption, but mostly the women are just dreadful. They label the hopeful contestants “Desperate MILF” or “Villain” and move them around a board in their production office based on how likely they are to create drama. Or else they’re lurking behind the scenes, directing the cameraman into place to get the perfect shot of the second a contestant hears devastating news. And Rachel and Quinn aren’t the only bad ones: even the seemingly naive intern Madison is willing to sleep her way to success, while Rachel’s psychiatrist mum, forcibly medicating her grown daughter against her will, might be the creepiest of them all.But the real villain is reality TV itself. In one episode, the crew visit Adam’s “palatial” family home – an uninhabitable death-trap that the show-within-a-show shoots to make it look rustic and quaint. They film a romantic horseback ride using stunt doubles, while Adam and the contestant ride on fake horses for the closeups. Reality TV is far more emotionally manipulative than its calculating leading ladies, and UnREAL doesn’t pull its punches.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Contestants on Everlasting are cajoled into flirting shamelessly, starting race rows or having cat fights. Photograph: Sergei BachlakovOn any other show, Rachel and Quinn would be the villains. Sometimes you can cheer for them, because the people they’re cheating deserve it. But, more often, their behaviour is fascinatingly reprehensible, just like the classic (usually male) anti-heroes they are modelled upon. They’re Walter White in power heels. Frank Underwood with a radio mike. UnREAL is unmissable. UnREAL season one and the first episode of season two are available now on Amazon Prime in the UK, with new episodes available every Tuesday. It airs in the US on Mondays at 10pm on Lifetime. 