Do you have any regrets about making a certain character in the Red Queen universe too powerful or making the world too complex? Or any other writing regrets?Red Queen by Victoria Aveyard – review So far the biggest regret I have in regards to the world of Red Queen is that I didn’t get to worldbuild enough. I don’t think I did enough work explaining how the world came to be and while I’m planning to go more into it, I’m a greedy writer and I’m always going to wish I had more room to delve into the complexities of a fantasy realm.What is your favourite scene or line you have written? My favourite scene so far is still the twist in Red Queen, when we learn the true allegiances of a certain character. I can really feel the story going sideways in that moment, and it really undercuts what we knew to be true. It’s a watershed moment for the entire series.Red Queen by Victoria Aveyard - review What was it about the characters in Red Queen that made you want to continue their story over several books? I always knew I was writing a series because, again, I’m a greedy writer. But the trilogy was expanded to four books because I’m learning more about my characters and world as I continue on. I realized that these people can’t be rushed, and many moving pieces need room to breathe. It’s quite fascinating to realise I can outline all I want, but the characters can’t be forced to do anything they don’t “want” to do. Can you tell us you get into the mind of a character? I start out giving characters archetypes and parameters. Once I know the basics, and had a rudimentary model, it’s easier to carve unique curves and edges. It’s quite easy to guess how a character is going to react if you know their background, and at a certain point you realize you understand them personally. They’re like rats in a maze. Each one finds their own particular way to run it.Which character did you find the most challenging to write/create? – and why Maven is one of my favorites, but his motivations and characters are very complex. I like him because he makes me work hard. I have to keep a lot juggling with him, and understand the little facets of why he is the way he is. He’s an intriguing knot to untangle.What drew you to writing fantasy?I’ve always loved massive worlds, whether in fantasy or science fiction. I like the idea of making my own rules as well as utilizing everything that I love or inspires me. It’s very freeing to know you can write a story that can be as big as your own imagination.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  What are your favourite fantasy books and/or fantasy authors that have inspired you? I love JRR Tolkien, JK Rowling and George RR Martin to death and back. Their works inspire me immensely, both in scope of world and, GRRM especially, in character with his A Song of Ice and Fire series. Would you rather live the life of a Silver or a Red?Obviously I’d rather be a Silver but I’d probably end up an inconsequential Red on the sidelines.Out of the existing Silvers in the novel whose power would you most like to have? I would love mind control, but out of all super powers (in pop culture), I have to go with time travel.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? If you lived in the Red Queen universe, would you be a member of the Scarlet Guard? Probably not. I’d keep my head down.You’re being mugged! Which of your characters would save you? And why? I guess Cal because he’s noble to a fault. Maybe Farley too, if she felt so inclined and didn’t have to be anywhere else for a while.If you could only read one book for the rest of your life, what would it be?The Lord of the Rings by JRR TolkienThank you to site members Lookingforlauren, Wren, Thefaultinourfandoms, Thedauntlessbookthief for these wonderful questions. If you’re a keen reader under 18 you should join our site, and maybe you’ll get to interview your favourite author (we have been known to wave our magic wand). Webchat: the world of fantasy fiction - as it happened We’ll also add a couple of Victoria’s answers in our teen fantasy live chat, held on February 28, find more on gems on Twitter #Gdnteenfantasy and catch up with the whole chat in our live blog. Victoria Aveyard (@VictoriaAveyard)Lots of zombie apoc dreams. Also I've been having the loosing teeth dream a lot lately. #GdnTeenFantasy https://t.co/F3lIMWGKaDFebruary 28, 2016Victoria Aveyard (@VictoriaAveyard)Kilorn needs a hug and some soup. #GdnTeenFantasy https://t.co/LMSYEU1yT6February 28, 2016And as an added bonus we here are some of Victoria’s answers in her own #AskAveyard Q&A session on Twitter! Will we be seeing any new exciting powers in Glass Sword? - Yes! Some of my favorite new abilities pop up in Glass Sword. Look out for Jon and Cameron. They’re not to be missed. :)As a writer who one day wants to be published, is there any advice you can give? My biggest bits of advice are: write as much as you can, finish what you start, get a thick skin, don’t take crap from anyone, but also live your life and have fun. The stereotype of a writer holed up alone all day is really unhelpful. You can’t write real people and real emotion if you don’t let yourself experience them.Will any ships sail? Perhaps. I know some ships sink, Titanic-style.What is your go to karaoke song? I notoriously dislike singing karaoke myself. I get very uncomfortable in that situation, but I go to karaoke with friends a lot and sing along from my seat. I really love classic rock for that. Can’t go wrong with Billy Joel.You can buy Victoria Aveyard’s new book The Glass Sword, sequel to her bestselling Red Queen, from the Guardian bookshop. Victoria promises books three and four are on their way!       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest 