With their complex characters, slowly developing storylines and striking, shadowy cinematography, Scandinavian crime dramas have a hold over British TV audiences that shows no sign of relenting.But the latest, Modus, a new export from Sweden that arrives on BBC4 on Saturday night, takes the format in an unexplored direction, diverting from the favoured slow reveal of the killer and instead introducing him from the opening shot.The drama that unfolds over the eight episodes, beginning with the killing of a female priest and developing into a chilling case linked to a network of fundamentalists, flips the theme of “whodunnit” into a “whydunnit” exploration of hate crime.For Scandinavian audiences it has proved a seductive way of storytelling. Modus became the most successful Scandinavian TV series on Sweden’s TV4 in 25 years, with an audience of 1.2 million.Unlike The Killing and The Bridge, Sweden’s two most globally successful nordic noirs, the central character, Inger Johanne Vik, is not in the police but is instead a criminal psychologist, and she is forced to take an interest in the case when her autistic daughter becomes a witness to the crime.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Inger Johanne Vik, forced to take on a case when her daughter becomes chief witness. Photograph: BBC/© Miso Film 2015/Johan PaulinMai Brostrøm and Peter Thorsboe, two screenwriting stalwarts of Scandinavian crime drama, adapted Modus from a novel by Anne Holt, a former Norwegian justice minister.Brostrøm and Thorsboe said having just one novel to explore over eight episodes had ensured Modus could delve deeper into the personal struggles of its characters than other popular crime dramas, as well as employing the slow and deliberate pace that is central to the popularity of Scandi-noir.“What we loved about Anne’s book was that it was not just about the crime investigation but about these characters, who were complex and had struggles in their daily lives and in their families,” said Brostrøm. “Inger is this quite difficult and introverted character, even more difficult in the books than we made her in the series, so you are drawn into the crime but you also want to understand her more.”She added: “It is the same approach with the killer. Because you know who he is from the beginning you follow him doing things other than just killing, you get into his head more. There is always a personal reason that drives hate crimes and so I think getting into the mind of the person committing the crime is a really interesting development of the format.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Henrik Norlen as Ingvar Nyman in Modus. Photograph: BBC/© Miso Film 2015/Johan PaulinMelinda Kinnaman agreed to take on the role of Vik, having just had a baby, because she was so drawn to the lead character’s complexities and flaws and the fact that the show grapples with differing family setups, from the single mother to gay couples raising children. “I think it’s wonderful to have a character like Inger at the heart of the show,” said Kinnaman. “I could really relate to her because in many ways she’s quite an ordinary woman. She’s not in the police, she’s a crime psychologist and she’s really trying to get the puzzle of life to fit together as a single mother with two daughters, one of whom is special needs. “So it’s a show that does two things – it’s an exploration of this relationship between mother and daughter, of dealing with having a special needs child you are desperate to protect, as well as it being a thriller.” While crime dramas continue to be among the most popular form of television entertainment, the amount of violence portrayed against women on these shows has been much criticised.Kinnaman admitted she was “sick and tired of watching young women raped and murdered on television”, but said she had been impressed by the Modus script, where the victims have stories that are told in as much detail as those who are alive, rather than being represented as nothing more than bodies in a morgue. Thorsboe said: “It was important for us that we take the victims much more seriously. We tell their stories, and the stories of their families. They are not just photographs in a police station or these nameless bodies. We try to make people think about the people who die and a big part of the show is asking who are these victims, who are their families, what is the impact of their death?”The series has proved so popular that Brostrøm and Thorsboe have adapted another of Holt’s books and filming is about to begin on the second series.But asked to speculate on the secret ingredient that makes Scandi thrillers so adored, the pair could think of only one thing. “We live without the sun really for half the year and I do think there is something about the darkness of Scandinavia that lends itself to exploring crime and the darker side to people,” said Brostrøm. “That melancholy, it creeps into our literature and our poetry and now also our television.”• This article was amended on 28 November 2016.An earlier version said Anne Holt is a former Swedish justice minister. She is a former Norwegian minister.