Eurovision: You Decide 7.30pm, BBC2Democracy in action. If the country wants to complain about our Eurovision song contest performance, then let the country vote for the performer it wants to represent it. Mel Giedroyc hosts the show from Hammersmith Apollo, which will be nice for the six shortlisted acts. It will be after the show, however, that we will discover whose task it is to better the 24th place managed by last year’s You Decide winners, Joe & Jake. John RobinsonTina & Bobby 9pm, ITVThe final part of a muted bio-drama charts the decline in Bobby Moore’s career and marriage, with professional disappointments and personal betrayals – sparked by him being dropped by England in 1973 – ticked off in the most perfunctory manner. Every opportunity to offer insight into Moore’s character, or the nature of football and fame, is spurned. Michelle Keegan is good as his patient wife, but she is shouldering this whole production like Atlas in nylons. Jack SealeSound of Musicals With Neil Brand 9pm, BBC4Like superhero movies, novels and cruise ships, musicals come maxi-sized these days, from the megabucks likes of The Lion King to We Will Rock You and Les Mis. In this series finale, Neil Brand explores these mighty moneyspinners – plus quirkier attractions such as sweary puppet fest Avenue Q and the deathless Rocky Horror Show. Tim Rice also pops up for a chat, along with Book Of Mormon co-creator Robert Lopez. Ali CatterallThe Last Leg 10pm, Channel 4The boys are back – namely Josh Widdicombe, Alex Brooker and esteemed host Adam Hills – for a new series of The Last Leg, following their sterling work covering the 2016 Paralympic Games from Rio. For this inaugural episode of 2017, the team are joined by the Broadchurch and former Doctor Who star David Tennant, who is on hand to assist in their comic summation of the week’s news, plus handling some of the standard #isitok tweets from viewers. Ben ArnoldThe World’s Most Extraordinary Homes 9pm, BBC2In the last in this series of amiable big-house porn, Caroline Quentin and architect Piers Taylor look at homes built underground, which – thanks to the ingenuity of their architects – command excellent views of their surroundings. These include a deceptively luxurious dwelling beneath a Swiss barn and an earthquake-proof residence in New Zealand. Sumptuous, if you can tolerate Quentin’s extreme enthusiasm. David StubbsBull 10pm, FoxThe titular lead character is Dr Jason Bull, a trial consultant played by Michael Weatherly, whose previous turn in the not dissimilar NCIS is both congruous and confusing. The drama is, in essence, another engaging yet insubstantial high-end whodunnit series. Tonight, Bull represents Reese, a woman on trial for the murder of a college basketball athlete who had previously raped her. It’s a trial that pits Bull, as is so often the case in glitzy legal dramas, against an old flame. Andrew MuellerTripTank 11.30pm, Comedy CentralThis US series of adult comedy shorts oozes with dark satire and general weirdness. From faux-educational mascot Ricky the Rocketship inadvertently burning his young passengers to a crisp, to a talkshow helmed by homeless man Bootfucker McGillicutty, TripTank pokes fun at its scattershot range of targets in incendiary fashion. The fast pace means there often isn’t enough of the stuff that actually works best but, overall, it’s pleasingly uncomfortable viewing. Hannah J DaviesFilm choiceMoney Monster, (Jodie Foster, 2016), 2.15pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereThis playful little cousin of The Big Short stars George Clooney as Lee Gates, smug presenter of TV show Money Monster, which offers successful – but not always – buying tips on the stock market. One such swallows the savings of angry truck driver Kyle Budwell (Jack O’Connell) who, armed with a gun and a suicide vest for Lee, takes the show hostage. With Julia Roberts as the embattled producer, it doesn’t lack for starry charm, but falls awkwardly between satire and thriller. Paul HowlettDredd, (Pete Travis, 2012), 11.05pm, Film4Karl Urban stars as the comic-book judge, jury and executioner of Mega City One, though it could be any bristly chinned, husky-voiced actor behind the forbidding helmet. Still, this is a taut, tough, violent tale, with Dredd and rookie judge Olivia Thirlby fighting their way out of a 200-storey tower block infested with drug-crazed gangsters. Paul HowlettLive sportBowls: World Indoor Championships Coverage of the men’s singles quarter-finals at the Potters Leisure Resort in Hopton-on-Sea. 1pm, BBC2FA Cup Football: Derby County v Leicester City Premier League champions Leicester City continue their quest to win a first FA Cup. 7.30pm, BBC1Anglo-Welsh Cup Rugby: Bath v Gloucester Coverage of the matchday three contest. 7.30pm, BT Sport 2