Anton Chekhov’s The Cherry Orchard ends with the aged servant Firs, a former serf, alone on the deserted stage. “Life’s gone by like I never lived,” he says. In Stephen Karam’s new version, which opens at New York’s Roundabout next month, the legendary actor Joel Grey plays Firs. That mournful sentiment is not one that Grey entirely shares. The Tony and Oscar-winning actor, now 84, has led an agreeably eventful life. For more than 70 years, he has lent his impudent grin and button-bright eyes to theater, television and film, offering an air of mischief and melancholy to the characters he plays. He titled his recent memoir, Master of Ceremonies, borrowing the name from his best-known role, the menacing, epicene emcee of Kander and Ebb’s Cabaret, a part he recreated for the Bob Fosse movie version.  In his book, Grey discusses not only his professional life, but also his personal one, particularly his attraction to men, an orientation he concealed for several decades. On a recent morning, he spoke about returning to the stage in The Cherry Orchard, why he’ll never play Shakespeare and whether or not he still finds the theater a sexy place.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Wilkommen ... Liza Minnelli and Joel Grey in Cabaret. Photograph: Allstar/Allied ArtistYou haven’t performed a Chekhov play since you starred in Platonov 40 years ago. Had you wanted to go back?Of course. What actor doesn’t? It’s just the most human and outrageous and extraordinary. What do you think about the Stephen Karam version?I didn’t know how it was going to work when I read it, but it’s very powerful and interesting. I thought The Humans was a beautiful play. I liked his earlier play, Sons of the Prophet – I thought that was a killer. I knew immediately this was a major playwright. I didn’t know he was a baby. He looks like a baby. He talks and walks like a baby. He’s a very charming kid. What can you tell me about Firs and about finding this character?It’s always about dreaming and the ideas that come to you in the night – details and attitude and heartbreak. You wake up in the morning and you think, oh that’s what he’s about. Firs represents a kind of forgotten person that every period seems to have, someone who’s decided to hold on to his beliefs and his instincts. Firs, he’s a slave. And somewhere in that he has integrity and respect for himself and respect for his owners, because that’s what he was born with. Is that his tragedy? That he doesn’t want freedom?Well, he doesn’t know it. It’s what he’s accustomed to and it’s connected with a sense of importance to someone. Firs says that life has passed him by. You don’t have similar regrets?No! Have you read my book? I don’t think that’s part of what I’m about. I’m about possibilities and about surprises and the life force. Do you wish you’d done more classics or were you happy creating new works?There was always this idea that I would work on Shakespeare and some of the other classics. But it never came to be. I was always busy. I don’t say that in a boasting kind of way, but Peter Brook wanted me to be in the Mahabharata. But I had two children and a wife and it meant maybe a full year commitment at a dollar and a quarter a week, so it didn’t seem so possible.Is it really too late for Shakespeare? What about a Malvolio or a Jacques?Nah. I’m equally interested now in photography and I find it taking a lot of my focus. I like making things. Creating a character that wasn’t there before, creating an image.You’re a consummate character actor. What’s the pleasure in that?I didn’t have any choice. I don’t look like Brad Pitt.Do you still find the theater powerful? You write that your work on The Normal Heart helped you to become honest with yourself about your sexuality.Yeah. I do believe that. It’s always done it for me, in terms of being an audience member. I’ve seen a play change a whole audience. When they came in there were things they didn’t know and then suddenly they were owners of the secrets. And do you still feel that the theater is a very sexy place?Yes. It still is. It’s unique in that respect. People are very vulnerable and approachable. Everybody is sort of dropping their reality and dreaming. It’s part of the fun. The making believe and the having an affair, an affair of the mind. And then you go home to your wife and kids.Your book describes how you came to terms with your sexuality. Now that you’ve made those revelations public, has it changed your acting?I can’t imagine that it didn’t. The less encumbered by stuff you are the freer you are to tell the truth. Onstage and off. What’s next?Like every actor I think this is my last job. But I know differently.At the close of the book you reveal that you haven’t yet found a partner, but are still looking. Any luck?Not today. Not this morning. But I’m not sad. I’m fully occupied and interested.