For 50 years, pub theatres have been synonymous with the London fringe. Spaces such as the old Bush and the Gate – tiny function rooms, stuffed with seats and painted slapdash black – were theatre’s radical edges, pushing at sensibilities and possibilities alike. They were a launchpad – maybe the only one – for new talent. Artists as distinct as Katie Mitchell and Kathy Burke made their first shows above pubs.These days, however, you’re as likely to find a dusty rediscovery or a staid curio as you are the next big thing. The Play That Goes Wrong – an Olivier award-winner now on Broadway – started out at the Old Red Lion five years ago, but conventional wisdom has it that pub theatres, like pubs themselves, aren’t what they once were. Easy as it is to romanticise the past, there’s a fair bit of truth in that. London theatre has changed – almost beyond recognition. Pub theatres haven’t. Run on a shoestring, stuck in shabby black boxes, how could they?As big subsidised theatres have picked up experimental fare, pub theatres have faced an identity crisis. At the same time, the fringe itself has mutated. Found spaces have put down roots, while venues such as Southwark Playhouse and the Arcola have emerged and quickly expanded into new premises, sprouting their own bars and second spaces in the process, arguably outstripping their boozier rivals. Neil McPherson, long-serving artistic director of the Finborough in Earl’s Court, says there’s “a lot more competition now” – both for shows and for audiences.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Play That Goes Wrong transferred from the Old Red Lion to the West End in 2014. Photograph: Helen MurrayPublic houses are built on storytelling: these shared spaces sit within communities in a way other venues can only dream of. At the Old Red Lion, football fans rub shoulders with playgoers. The two groups might even – gasp – overlap. Shabbiness might be pub theatres’ secret weapon, says Clive Judd, new artistic director of the Old Red Lion. Their informality extends beyond audiences, to artists – those at odds with institutional theatres. “I’ve never felt uncomfortable here,” he insists, and his ethos reflects that, avoiding the pitches and proposals that are par for the course elsewhere and tend to favour Oxbridge-style graduates.“Pub theatre is absolutely and uniquely British,” says Lou Stein, the American director who established the Gate above an Irish pub in Notting Hill in 1979. He’d just relocated from New York, where the off-off-Broadway scene had started 20 years earlier in the coffeehouses of Greenwich Village. For Stein, now running the inclusive Chickenshed theatre company, it’s a way for theatre to flourish away from and in opposition to the mainstream and its gatekeepers.McPherson, too, believes the mainstream is skewed by its “obsession with writers who are photogenic and give a really good interview”. Scan the Sunday supplements, full of bright young things, and he might have a point. “It’s fair to say a lot of my writers have personal hygiene problems and probably shouldn’t be let out of the house – but that’s a writer.”The work should follow suit. Pub theatres don’t do polish, and for Judd, that’s key. “If you’re going to develop writers, they have to recognise what’s not working. You can only do that in front of a live audience.” Rather than putting plays through workshops and endless redrafts, pubs tend to push scripts through to production, warts and all. “You can find an obscure play and have it on in three to six months,” says McPherson. Subsidised theatres, by contrast, think a year ahead, minimum.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The award-winning Unscorched, at the Finborough theatre in 2013. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianThe history of pub theatre is patchy. Though a few Victorian taverns were annexed to theatres – Sadler’s Wells at its start, for example – the first pub theatre proper was founded in 1968, when Leonie Scott-Matthews set up in a disused skittle alley beneath the Freemason’s Arms in Hampstead. It would be three years before Pentameters, still run by Scott-Matthews today, found itself a permanent home above the Horseshoe, half a mile away. In that time, Dan Crawford had started the King’s Head on Upper Street, Islington, a venue he ran until his death in 2005.When Stein arrived at the Gate in 1979, pub theatres were starting to spring up all over town: the Bush to its west, the Finborough to the south, the Old Red Lion north. “Each was its own thing,” Stein remembers. “People weren’t connected to each other, or the bigger picture as they are now.” The Bush did new plays, the Latchmere in Battersea (a space now home to Theatre 503) did comedy. Stein’s own programming prioritised eastern European work. They were, in a sense, the found spaces of their time. At a moment of economic inactivity, a lot of Victorian pubs had rooms sitting empty. Landlords were happy to charge peppercorn rents (if at all) in the hope of pulling a few more pints each night. Stein recently unearthed the Gate’s initial contract. Rent was £30 a week (£140 in today’s terms). “You could earn that and pay your actors a bit. We charged £2 a ticket.”If anything has motored change, it’s money. Pub theatres have always been precarious, at the mercy of the businesses below when landlords sell up and big breweries buy in. In 18 years at the Finborough, McPherson’s seen off his fair share of downstairs neighbours. “I’ve gone from a manky pub with a fight every night … to a posh bar, a wine cafe, a gastropub and then back to a proper pub. A proper pub always works best.” A lot of my writers have personal hygiene problems and probably shouldn’t be let out of the house – but that’s a writerNeil McPherson The Finborough paid no rent at all until 1998. In 2012, rates leapt dramatically: from £6,000 a year to £28,000. Those costs, inevitably, knocked on, and McPherson estimates the average Finborough show now comes in between £30,000 and £40,000. Tickets are up, too: £18 as standard – more than the cheap seats safeguarded by subsidised theatres. The Old Red Lion, despite being part and parcel of the pub itself, not a tenant, is bracing itself for a massive hike in business rates – 30%, says Judd. “That means a rise in hire costs. It’s looking like £2,000 a week all in.” Add in the pressure to pay actors a fair wage – rightly so – and it starts to seem as if the costs might not be recouped.When Felix Mortimer’s site-specific company Rift mounted a season of 90s classics earlier this year – the sort of plays born in pub theatres and black boxes – they chose to build their own space, rather than rent an existing one. With a warehouse in Tottenham at the company’s disposal (annual rent: £24,000), constructing a 75-seat studio cost an additional £25,000. Thanks to an in-house bar, the venue covers costsand turns over £400,000 a year – not bad for a company formed in 2012.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Dying of Today, at the Other Room in Cardiff in 2015. Photograph: Aenne Pallasca“We’re not a pub theatre, but a club theatre,” Mortimer explains, pointing to London Bridge’s Shunt Vaults as inspiration. That fits with the way people socialise today. “You go to the local Monday to Thursday, then further afield, Friday and Saturday. Every week, we strip it all out for a big party.” Here, the bar drew an audience, not vice versa: “People came for a drink and saw people being shot out of the theatre in coffins [for the climax of their production Styx], so they came back and bought tickets.”Pub theatres are now popping up around the country. Though never exclusively “a London thing”, venues elsewhere tended to house amateur shows. That’s changing. Leicester’s first, Upstairs at the Western, opened five years ago. Bristol has the Wardrobe. Since 2014, Cardiff has had the Other Room – the first pub theatre in Wales.Its founder Kate Wasserberg, recently appointed co-artistic director at Out of Joint, had planned to set up a Rift-style found space with its own bar when she was offered a small room, rent-free, at Porter’s bar. If the model resembles the original one, so does the spirit. “We’re openly inviting audiences to have fun,” says Wasserberg. “You’re not here to learn, because how could you possibly settle in for self-improvement if you’re a bit hammered?”Out of these theatres, local ecologies are emerging – almost exactly as the capital’s fringe took shape 50 years ago – freeing emerging artists and alternative makers from main regional houses. Even in London, though, a new wave of venues has opened in recent years: the Hope in Islington, Bread and Roses in Clapham and Theatre N16 in Balham – all on the sort of sweetheart deals of old. Further proof, then, that it’s far from last orders for pub theatre.