When it comes to the perfect format for cinema, Hollywood has always touted the big screen over home viewing. But what happens when a film is specifically designed to be watched on the tiniest, least “cinematic” of screens: that of the plain old mobile phone? Found-footage horror Sickhouse goes one step further. It is not only best viewed on a pocket device, it was shot and distributed to audiences using entirely mobile-based technology.Filmed on a series of iPhones, Hannah Macpherson’s film was originally uploaded in 10-second virtual vignettes over five days, between 29 April and 3 May, to the Snapchat account of YouTube celebrity Andrea Russett, who plays a version of herself in the Blair Witch-style chiller. Russett’s 500,000-plus followers on the teen-friendly social media app simply began receiving the updates without any warning that they were viewing a scripted movie.“Andrea’s Snapchat account was effectively our means of distribution,” says producer Jake Avnet, whose “next-gen” studio Indigenous Media specialises in film-making via unusual formats. “The footage was live for 24 hours on her followers’ accounts and then disappeared forever. That creates a real need to watch quickly and in real time, otherwise the footage is gone. It felt like a real opportunity to get audiences to watch something as it was occurring.”Movies have been shot on mobile phones successfully before, notably Sean S Baker’s transgender-themed comedy Tangerine and Jafar Panahi’s claustrophobic protest piece This is Not a Film. Yet somehow the medium seems to fit Sickhouse’s milieu perfectly. What Macpherson’s film lacks in originality – both the “cabin in the woods” and scary urban legend templates are well worn – it makes up for via an excruciatingly hard-to-watch yet fascinating portrait of the modern, social-media-obsessed teen’s goldfish-bowl-like existence.  Laine Neal in Sickhouse. Photograph: YouTubeFrom early scenes larking around on sunkissed Venice Beach to later episodes in the deep, dark woods, Russett’s constant awareness of the need to update her followers on every aspect of her life, to continue telling the story, are naturalistic enough, given she makes a living from doing just that. Throw in the reality TV star’s troubled cousin Taylor (really actor Laine Neil), who seems like exactly the sort of person you wouldn’t want to go on a trip to a freaky backwoods haunted house with, and the result is an intriguingly voguish 68-minute film that, perhaps unwittingly, speaks volumes about the shallow, throwaway pathos of modern youth.Avnet says part of the fun of making Sickhouse was watching Russett’s followers slowly work out they were watching a movie. “This felt like a unique opportunity to present to young people something on a format where they spend a lot of their time,” he says. “We shot over five days, chronologically and in real time. We would shoot a take, watch it and when we got the take we liked we would upload it. You can’t shoot any shot longer than 10 seconds, which was challenging.“We had our actors holding the camera, self-shooting, talking to the camera and even writing on the screen, all things that you can do in Snapchat. We saw all those methods as ways to innovate and live within the format.”The off-the-cuff nature of real-time filming meant much of the footage was based on improvised dialogue, with only basic plot points in place. “It wasn’t a typical feature script,” says Avnet. “We wanted to let the characters bring the story to life themselves. Obviously we had Andrea playing herself, and she’s very comfortable on camera talking to her followers. We didn’t want to box her in, so we just provided narrative points for her to hit but gave her free rein to get there.”   Sickhouse. Photograph: youtubeSickhouse’s narrow, iPhone-inspired framing adds to the sense of callow claustrophobia, of youth lived through a narrow lens. But once the video snippets made their way into the wider world of Snapchat, the film-makers discovered their narrative had a way of bursting way beyond its original confines. “There was a moment on the last day of filming where one of our lead characters, Taylor, flashed her Snapchat handle up on screen and people started to follow her,” says Avnet. “What we hadn’t anticipated was that people also started following the same account on Instagram and Twitter in their thousands.“We thought the people who owned these accounts must be amazed at all the new followers they were getting. Then we suddenly realised the person running these accounts was stealing screenshots from our movie and was actually tweeting as Taylor. They just jumped in and began affecting our narrative, and we had no control over them.”Russett’s initial series of posts was viewed more than 100m times on Snapchat over its five-day run. But it remains to be seen whether producers can capitalise on the movie’s huge reach, since there is no obvious way of monetising the format. The pioneering horror’s financial success currently relies on a newly released director’s cut available on Vimeo – it’s still designed to be watched on a mobile – and promises to catch up audiences on any bits they may have missed from Andrea and Taylor’s journey into the woods as a result of the real-time “broadcast” of the original 10-second snippets.Nevertheless, Avnet believes there are “tons of opportunities to tell stories on these unique platforms, from Snapchat to Instagram, Twitter and so forth”. He adds: “They all have their own functionality. We made a thriller but it could easily have worked as a comedy or a drama. It’s all about the stories.”To watch Sickhouse click here