Jarvis Cocker wears geek chic on Top of the Pops – 1995The man who made it OK to shop in Oxfam for your suits and wear NHS-issued glasses, Jarvis Cocker was a style icon who could only have come from Britain. Performing the band’s No 2 single, Common People, on Top of the Pops broadcast Cocker’s image into the homes of older millennials, who quickly adopted his look. The younger ones have discovered him since then. With geek chic riding high in Gucci’s collections, Cocker remains its patron saint.Asos launches – 2000Most millennials, also known as Generation Y, won’t remember a time before internet shopping – and Asos (then known as As Seen on Screen) was squarely aimed at them when it launched in 2000. Net-a-porter, the luxe equivalent, was established the same year. Designed to sell clothes that had been seen on celebrities, Asos quickly broadened to selling all clothes twentysomethings would want for a Friday night, delivered to their door. Most customers under 35 have it bookmarked, and it has managed to move with the times: Asos still counts twentysomethings as its primary audience.Britney Spears and Justin Timberlake in double denim – 2001      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Britney Spears and Justin Timberlake. Photograph: Jeffrey Mayer/WireImageIf internet memes had been popular in 2001, there is little doubt this red carpet moment would have become one. Everyone’s favourite noughties couple wearing matching denim outfits – hers a sort of ballgown made from repurposed jeans, his a denim cowboy hat and blazer complete with Levi’s pocket – summed up a pre-recession time of frankly quite silly maximalism. This was essential to Generation Ys’ understanding of celebrity style – it’s all about quirks that go viral. See also: David Beckham in a sarong, Angelina’s leg and Cheryl and Ashley Cole dressed all in white for a National Lottery advert in 2006.American Apparel comes to the UK – 2004While the story didn’t end so well, American Apparel’s arrival in the UK was greeted with excitement by millennials. They were drawn in by the now-familiar combination of basics and cool. Buying any old grey marl T-shirt was no longer OK – it had to be from American Apparel, the tag showing the price printed in Helvetica. A frisson of controversy was added by Terry Richardson’s voyeuristic ad campaigns. Financial problems have dogged the brand in recent years but its sartorial impact is stamped on a generation. It could be said that American Apparel had a hand in nu rave, Normcore, unisex fashion, the 70s revival and athleisure. Not bad.From Kim Jong-un to Kim Kardashian – the world's most powerful millennials Christopher Kane shows at London fashion week – 2006The so-called wonder boy of his generation, Kane launched his label at London fashion week in 2006 at the age of 24, with a collection of tight neon lace dresses. He was already on the radars of Donatella Versace and Vogue magazine. The Glaswegian designer’s impact on the millennial wardrobe is extensive, even if those wearing Kane-influenced designs have never heard of him. Kane has produced collections that championed goth style, ripped denim, slogan sweatshirts and gingham. Sound familiar?Kate Moss designs clothes for Topshop – 2007High street collaborations – a way to get some catwalk stardust on the cheap – come as standard for Generation Y. They were pioneered by H&M (the first one was with Karl Lagerfeld in 2004), but Topshop eclipsed its rival by getting Moss – a Y style icon if ever there was one – on board in 2007. Reportedly Moss was paid £3m to work with the brand – a fee that paid off. She is credited with increasing sales at Topshop’s parent company by 2.1%, and her promotion of the collection (she appeared in the windows of the Oxford Circus store) nearly caused a riot.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kate Moss launches her Topshop clothes range at Oxford Street flagship store. Photograph: Richard Young/Rex FeaturesTavi sits in the front row – 2009Fashion bloggers revolutionised style writing – showing images of “real” people wearing clothes in what was a marked contrast to super-styled models posing for glossy magazine pages. One of these bloggers was Tavi Gevinson, who started Style Rookie as a pre-teen girl in 2008. She dressed in high fashion and wrote her thoughts on her blog – and soon 30,000 people were looking at it each day. In 2009, Gevinson was given a front row seat at a Dior show, where she wore an oversized bow on her head, prompting the disgruntled fashion editor behind her to complain on Twitter. While Gevinson has gone on to pursue an acting career, blogging contemporaries such as Style Bubble’s Susie Lau are now established members of the fashion pack.Lady Gaga wears the meat dress – 2010There are some fashion moments that are burned on your retina, and Lady Gaga’s appearance in a dress made of meat is one of them. She wore it at the MTV Awards in 2010, and it was a talking point for weeks. Since then, the dress has prompted a Simpsons’ parody and been exhibited in the rock’n’roll hall of fame. Gaga was, of course, by this point an icon of extreme style, following in the tradition of Isabella Blow and predating street style star Anna Dello Russo. She appeals to the Ys on the extrovert side of the style spectrum, and judging by the size of her Little Monsters fanbase, there are quite a lot of them.Kanye West wears a woman’s blouse from Céline at Coachella – 2011      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kanye West at Coachella in 2011. Photograph: Chelsea Lauren/WireImageWhen it comes to gender, labels are increasingly irrelevant in a millennial world and clothes are a crucial part of that. Before terms such as “gender fluid” became part of common parlance, Kanye West – a man not averse to the outer reaches of fashion – was already quietly experimenting. He wore a blouse from Céline, a womenswear house, for his performance at Coachella in 2011. A$AP Rocky and Young Thug followed, with Young Thug saying 90% of his wardrobe was womenswear. #TBT starts to trend – 2012Generation Y are digitally minded of course, but with the majority of them able to remember a pre-digital time, they come with nostalgia built in. Hence the popularity of Throw Back Thursday, or #TBT – the Instagram hashtag that plugs into nostalgia, be it your own (you at school throwing a Posh Spice move, in the case of Kim Kardashian), or a retro image of a gold-plated style icon such as Kate Moss or Mick Jagger. Then there’s nostalgia-themed Instagram feeds such as janebirkindaily and 70sdaily. The 70s, before Ys were born, is their decade of choice. Generation Instagram: how nail painting and yoghurt eating became big earners The Stan Smith is rereleased – 2014Any survey of the feet of passersby on public transport in 2016 will show at least a few pairs of Stan Smiths. If all sorts of shoes have been embraced by millennials (from chunky Underground sandals to ballet pumps), the Stan Smith now has a ubiquity that sees them worn whatever style the rest of your outfit might pledge allegiance to. Generation Y like a certain democracy when it comes to style (how do you think the skinny jean has stuck around so long?) and with an added bit of a pedigree from an actual sportsperson, the Stan Smiths ticked all the right boxes. G Dragon goes to couture shows – 2015      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karl Lagerfeld with G Dragon. Photograph: Swan Gallet/WWD/Rex/ShutterstockHuge in Asia, pop star G Dragon is the “fashion one” in his boyband, Bigbang, and wears labels including Givenchy and Hood By Air. His superstar status is now global, with brands keen to court Asian consumers. This was underlined last year when G Dragon attended the couture shows in Paris, hobnobbing with fellow front rowers including Lily-Rose Depp and Kristen Stewart. This is only to be expected. As digital natives, a global approach to fashion references comes naturally to Gen Y.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Illustration: Janne IivonenRead on: The trials of Generation Y - the full series