 If you really want to hear about it…Be undeterred by the fact The Catcher in the Rye was written in 1951; this controversial modern classic is a true masterpiece. J.D. Salinger perfectly encompasses the severe reality faced by youths through the 17 -year- old male protagonist Holden Caulfield. He speaks to the reader from a psychiatric hospital in southern California, after suffering from depression. The narrator provides clever insights, wit and dry, dark humour whilst reciting his story to the reader.The novel is a bildungsroman of Holden Caulfield’s growth into maturity, although this is surprising as it seems Holden’s main goal to resist this growth into becoming an adult. His adventure begins after he is kicked out of the prestigious Pencey Prep (which he believes to be full of “phonies”) and leaves the school a few days earlier than their Christmas break begins (since, you know, he’s already been kicked out). Finding himself on a train to New York – this is where his journey truly begins.From the very start of the novel, Salinger creates a brazen atmosphere and tone through the voice of his protagonist, using colloquialism and profanity to engage the reader and create a more realistic (and arguably more likeable) individual. Yet, as the book continues, it becomes clear that (just like most of us), Holden is completely bewildered, and perhaps even fearful, of his future creating a relatable and honest character. It becomes clear the teenager is struggling to figure out who he is and where he belongs and, as the novel continues, the reader watches the character become a boy who “just keeps falling and falling” after numerous incidents take place across the three days over which the novel takes place.It becomes apparent to the reader that Holden’s one true friendship and affection is between him and his “kid” sister Phoebe; at the end of the book there is a euphoric, heart-warming scene between Holden and his sister where he watches her play on a carousel and becomes “so damn happy all of a sudden” – this is where the reader knows there is hope and everything will be okay. How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? The Catcher in the Rye is an inspirational book which teaches us about self-perception, being true to yourself and, ultimately, that there is hope for us all. Although he is conceived as a stereotypical, insolent, rebellious, lazy teen, Holden presents to the reader the complexity of becoming independent, whilst creating your own identity and becoming aware of yourself.But, most importantly, he shows the reader that they are not alone.Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read? Join the site and send us your review!