The Great British Bake Off winner, Candice Brown, looks set to follow in the footsteps of former champions and pursue baking beyond the show.Brown, a PE teacher from Bedfordshire, has said there will be “plenty of cake” involved in her future.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Candice Brown wins the Great British Bake Off – videoThe Bake Off platform is sure to be lucrative for Brown, with an estimated £1m in book deals and endorsements available since the show’s finale aired on Wednesday night. Last year’s winner, Nadiya Hussain, earned a reported £1m for her recipe book, which has since become a bestseller, shifting over 25,000 copies since June.Brown could also follow contestants such as Tamal Ray and John Whaite, who have presented television shows off the back of their Bake Off popularity. Indeed, she has already become a household names after a record 14.8 million viewers tuned in for the Bake Off final, eclipsing the 13.8 who watched Hussain take the trophy last year. Speaking after her win, Brown said one of her ideas was to open a shop that combined her two great loves, cake and antiques. “I’ll just sort of see if opportunities arise and grab them with both hands,” she told Sky News.According to Mary Berry, it was Brown’s “passion and determination” that made her a worthy Bake Off winner. She won over the judges in the finale with an opulent meringue confection and her “absolute humdinger of a showstopper”, which was a royal picnic basket consisting of 49 bakes, including sausage rolls, quiches and a chocolate-orange cake. Brown also gave more details about the baking road trip to France that she and fellow finalist Jane Beedle, a gardening consultant from London, are planning. The pair became “firm friends” on the show.“I love all things vintage and I love France, and Jane spent quite a long time in France doing various different bits and pieces,” she said. “We were saying we should go on a little road trip and then she can tell me off for buying massive antique things that will never fit in the car.”Speaking on BBC Breakfast, Beedle echoed Brown. “We have a special bond and we’re determined to do a road trip together,” she said.Indeed, while the show may be over, the spirit of camaraderie between all the contestants has remained strong; they gathered at contestant Selasi Gbormittah’s house to watch the final together.Selasi Gbormittah (@selasigb)...#memories #GBBOfinal pic.twitter.com/2BDHnWJplWOctober 26, 2016Beedle described Brown as a worthy winner and said she and the third finalist, Andrew Smyth, had an inkling she would take home the Bake Off trophy. “She was just awesome,” said Beedle. “Watching it on the telly, you don’t see all the little bits that go on behind and it just builds and builds ... every single thing she did was spot on and I made two or three errors, and that’s all you need between winning and losing. “I couldn’t have been happier for her, and Andrew and I both stood there going: ‘Yeah, it’s definitely Candice.’”