The Shore to Shore tour – in celebration of independent bookshops – starts in Falmouth on 19 June and will end in St Andrews on 2 July. Alongside me in the back of the tour bus will be the leading Welsh poet Gillian Clarke, world poet Imtiaz Dharker, new Scots makar Jackie Kay, and journeyman musician John Sampson, complete with crumhorn. (He will have to sit alone ...) Along the way, at each stop – be it Chipping Norton, Crickhowell or Corbridge – we’ll team up with an extra poet specially associated with the area; including, in Caernarfon, the new national poet of Wales, Ifor ap Glyn and, in St Boswell in the Scottish Borders, the recent makar, Liz Lochhead. To coincide with the tour, Picador are publishing an anthology of newly commissioned poems about bookshops, some of which are printed for the first time here today. Adding up all the poets either on the tour or in the book, or both, we have nearly 40 combining to sing the praises of independent bookshops.Such places, whether in the tiny village of Much Wenlock or the graceful city of Bath, are deeply woven into the fabric of their local communities. The people who, devotedly, run them are the human link between author and reader: knowing both their customers and their customers’ children; celebrating their locality; and being almost always the only retailers to accept and sell 12 letter-pressed pamphlets by local poets. Their very existence is a kind of love and we – writers and readers – should love them in return by supporting them. See you on the road.In the Drowned Bookshop by Carol Ann DuffyInhoop, Inhospitable, Inhospitality,Inhuman: lacking kindness, pity or compassion;cruel, indifferent – a dictionary drifts, open at I.I beg to differ.An A to Z of Mammals, spoiledsinks. Not human, the beached whales of Skegness.Nor the river, perused though it has each poem,Biography, Once Upon a Time … Poor tomes;nothing to be learned from them by the human inhuman.In splashes the tardy Minister for Floods, smartdespite cheap new wellingtons, austere.There bobs Mary I of England, 1516–1558,Calais written on her heart.Apotheosis at the Signing Table by Clive JamesLooking ahead for places to sit down,Come spring I might, one last time, limp downtownAnd into Heffers, into Waterstones,In either order, haul my creaking bones,To stand, with a long-practised half-lost look,Somewhere beside the stack of my new bookUntil I’m asked to sign. As if surprisedI’ll sit down, slowly, seeming paralysedBy sheer humility as they bring stockOf books that I forgot I wrote. I’ll signEach tempting title-page with my by-lineLike a machine for hours on end. The clockWill seem not to exist. My signatureWill grow, however, steadily less sure,Until, the felt-tip quivering in my grasp,I scrawl the hieroglyphs of my last gasp.A final short sip from my cup of teaAnd I will topple, croaking tragically.Slumped on the carpet, I will look around,And all the walls of books in the background,More splendid even than they were before,Will seem to hear my small voice from the floor.‘Heffers or Waterstones, this is goodbye,But I rejoice that I came here to die,So one day those who know my books may sayThat this is where he signed his life away.’Silver Moon by Jackie KayYour names, old records, Court and Spark, Dark Side of the Moon,A shop window welcome; open hands, new friends.A wintery evening, nights drawing in. Warm glow:Sisterwrite, Compendium, Silver Moon.How you grew up reading nights to dawn.Books you found only here, the then unknowns:Audre Lorde, Nikki Giovanni, Toni Cade Bambara;The Bluest Eye held up a haunting mirror, Pecola Breedlove.Switched lights on; eyes wide open – Sula, CorregidoraYou read and read with wonder: We Are Everywhere:Writings About Lesbian Parents! Or A Raisin in the Sun.Voices from Women’s Liberation, Maya, Djuna, Zora,The Spinster and Her Enemies! Or Lucille Clifton.And by the silvery light of the bookshop you grew upBy the open door, standing alone, together,Other readers as engrossed, browsing, basking –The blessed benevolence, the sweet, sweet ambienceOf independent bookshops, remember Thins!Look how you still love their names: Voltaire and Rousseau,Grassroots, books gathering and honing your years:Black and white striped spines, tiny irons, Viragos, Shebas,The distinct spiral on the cover of your old The Bell JarYour skin’s pages; your heart’s ink, your brain’s Word Power:Jamaica Kincaid, Bessie Head, Claribel Alegría.Don’t let them turn the lights out, dears.Keep them safe, New Beacons, shining stars,Look how you’ve aged with your beloved books, dear hearts.Keep coming in, keep the bookshop door ajar.G. & A. Bowden by Alan JenkinsThe window-display’s a window In G. & A. Bowden, Bookshop. A note says the owner’s a widow And the bookselling had to stop,The book-buying and the catalogues And the salesmen who dropped by. The business side went to the dogs. The stock went to Hay-on-WyeAnd bare boards shine where I’d rehearse One of my adolescent selves,‘A strange child with a taste for verse’, Sheepishly, among the shelvesOf Poetry … The knowing smile, Tweed skirt and cardigan she wore, The lady who owned it then! A style That went with Art, post-war,And Literature; her husband’s pipe-smoke Competing with the smell of paperbacks. To me, it smelt of safety. Now I chokeOn empty walls, the lack of stacks,And everything that’s gone with them (It must be that). Not far awayThe river ebbs and flows, the rhythm That means life. Or so they say.• The Shore to Shore tour starts in Falmouth on 19 June and will end in St Andrews on 2 July. Off the Shelf: A Celebration of Bookshops in Verse is published by Picador (£10) and is available from independent bookshops.