Imagine if we hadn’t won the second world war, and the Nazis were in power instead. Imagine if in 2014 we were living in Nazi England, speaking German and part of the HJ or BDM practising the Nazi salute. This is the situation we find Jessika Keller in.She’s daughter of the powerful Herr Keller; nobody says no to Jessika. She’s a self-acclaimed ‘good girl’. She knows her duty towards her country and her life is near perfect. Then she meets her new neighbour Clementine, who has a rebellious streak nobody can control. Jessika starts to find herself seeing the world in a different way, and is slowly but surely being led astray.She starts to question her beliefs and ideals. And right before the reader’s eyes, Jessika’s perfect life starts to melt away.This novel has a gripping plot and is fast-paced. It jumps from the past to the present, explaining things along the way, which worked really well. Clementine as a character is incredible. She’s beautiful, daring, outspoken and revolutionary. She’s determined to make a change and her don’t care-ish attitude makes her seem unstoppable. It’s no wonder Jessika was captivated by her. As a reader, I found myself conflicted between hating Clementine and loving her. Hating her for ruining Jessika’s life, but loving her for her bravery. She recognises that the country they are living in is unfair, harsh, and threatening and she wants to change that. If someone spoke against Führer, they would be imprisoned, beaten and looked down upon in the eyes of society. People constantly live in fear that a slip of a tongue, an action wrongly perceived, could have them taken away from their home and the people they love. And with Clementine’s help, Jessika slowly sees that they shouldn’t have to live like this, and decides to do something about it. Overall, this is an absolutely brilliant novel, one which I couldn’t put down and stayed with me long after I did. It’s scary to think that this could have actually happened, that this could have been all too real, and that’s what makes this book so hard-hitting and powerful.How do I get involved in the Guardian children's books site? I would recommend this to people who are looking for an original dystopian read. This is a refreshingly unique and powerful novel and it’s definitely worth reading. Buy this book at the Guardian BookshopWant to tell the world about a book you’ve read?Join the site and send us your review!