Bobby Gillespie (Primal Scream): The Jean Genie      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bobby Gillespie Photograph: Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images for GuinnessI must have been 11 when I first heard The Jean Genie on the radio, when I was getting ready to go to school, and I’ve loved it ever since. I was just listening to it five minutes ago, stomping around the house, and that’s what it is: a classic rock’n’roll record, a glam stomp anthem. DJ with it and anyone my age right down to teenagers will dance to it, if they love rock’n’roll. It’s a really sexy record, and Bowie isn’t always sexy – there’s a distance, a lot of the time. But he wrote and recorded it when he was touring Ziggy Stardust in America and I think it captures the feeling of a rock’n’roll band making it there for the first time. It has the same stardom-coming-true hysteria as Have You Seen Your Mother, Baby, Standing in the Shadows? by the Rolling Stones. It’s cocky, it has that swagger. I actually think Aladdin Sane, the album it appeared on, is better than Ziggy. It’s rawer, looser. It’s more of an American record, whereas Ziggy is a British album, and it can feel a bit studied. Compare The Jean Genie to Suffragette City and hear the difference. The bass player in the band apparently told Bowie when they were on tour that it was too much of a ripoff of the Yardbirds’ I’m a Man, and of course he was right! But it doesn’t matter. And as a kid, I didn’t know that it might be about Jean Genet, or it might be about Iggy Pop or an Iggy character, as Bowie said. But that’s what makes it brilliant too, it’s rock’n’roll as the occult – he’s passing on that knowledge and passing it on to someone still at primary school! You understand what he means, you pick up a certain energy. You feel more excited. You feel stranger. I was in the classroom and another boy came over with a copy of Aladdin Sane, and he opened up the gatefold sleeve and read me the lyrics to Time: “Time, he flexes like a whore / Falls wanking to the floor / His trick is you and me, boy.” We were like: “Woah! .... Woah ....”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Jean Genie, 1972Janelle Monáe – Moonage Daydream      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Janelle Monae Photograph: Kyle Gustafson/For The Washington PostWhen I toured with Of Montreal, Kevin Barnes and I would sing Moonage Daydream every night together. The amount of conviction he has when he opens with “I’m an alligator, I’m a mama papa coming for you/I’m a space invader/I’ll be a rock ‘n’ rollin’ bitch for you” always makes me feel confident and proud to be different. The chord change and chorale singing in the background over “keep your ’lectric eye” hug me and take me to my most peaceful state of mind. For artists like us, David Bowie is like a B-52 bomber that roamed our minds making sure that we weren’t afraid to be our wonderfully odd selves. He is our Starman waiting in the sky. Our fearless protector of big ideas. Our truth invader.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Live performance of Moonage Daydream, taken from Bowie’s 1972 album, the Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from MarsFlorence Welch (Florence + the Machine): Young Americans      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Florence Welch. Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/ReutersIt’s hard to choose my favourite Bowie song because they are all so influential in my life. Something about Young Americans really got me as a teenager: I discovered it when I was just getting into music and parties and boys, and it had this swagger and confidence and soul. That “aaaaaaaaaaalright” just hits you – the way he delivers the verses has so much attitude. It’s so joyful but has a bite to it. The bit where he sings “break down and cryyyyyyyy” – only David Bowie could pull that off. This song made me feel free as a teenager, like I’d been given the key to another world, beyond school or home. It electrified me.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Matty Healy (the 1975): Fame      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 1975’s Matty Healy. Photograph: Ollie Millington/Redferns via Getty ImagesEven though it’s obvious, it’s Fame, which resonates with two different times in my life. When I was growing up, Bowie was a lot too forward-thinking for me – I was into big, obvious records. But I remember Fame and my dad picking up on the line “fame puts you there where things are hollow”. And if you look at what I’ve been doing recently, the links to Bowie and Fame are quite striking and obvious: Fame is the ultimate song about where I live now. It’s the song that delineates the world I’m in. It’s so simple and to the point, and a part of its time.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bowie performing Fame on Soul Train in 1975Bernard Butler (Suede, McAlmont & Butler): Quicksand      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bernard Butler. Photograph: Mike Prior/RedfernsThere are a trillion Bowie songs for every suit of armour, every mood you want – you probably have a favourite Bowie, rather than a favourite song. The one that had a big part of my life is Quicksand. I first came across that song with Brett Anderson in 1991, when we were two musicians, struggling and penniless, and we had a golden moment between us. I have a very specific memory of sitting on the floor in my bedsit with Brett playing this over and over again and talking about the lyric “I ain’t got the power any more”. Brett said: “What we have to have is the power.” Quicksand sounds negative on the surface – it’s an odd, dark lyric, with references to the occult and Nietzsche – but the line I take is “I’m not a prophet or a stone age man / Just a mortal with the potential of a superman.” And that’s the lyric we took from – you have to get into your subconscious to create something that transcends. and you have to cross the line between the light and the dark. You have to look beyond the mirror to find what’s truly great. When I was 21 that was my fantasy. It’s everything rock music wasn’t about in 1991: you didn’t get men having emotional conversations about songs and crying, and that’s what we did. I think my life has been changed several times by several different songs by Bowie, but that was the big one.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Quicksand from the Hunky Dory album, recorded in 1971Isy Suttie: Let’s Dance      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Isy Suttie. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianWhen I was at drama school I used to listen to Let’s Dance all the time, when I was working on anything or getting ready in the morning. It was a real part of my life. I did a lot of dance at college, and in my head I’ve always had a routine choreographed to Let’s Dance which starts with two strangers sitting on a bench and ends up with them dancing and falling in love – I’ve never ended up doing anything with it, but I have this entire dance composition in detail in my head. There are so many different layers; the lyrics are so clever. It’s not one of those songs where you hear it once and there’s nothing left to hear. If you’re feeling tired in the morning, it’s really energetic: “Put on your red shoes”, get up and start the day. If you listen to it at the end of the day, it’s more pensive, it feels slower. You feel the sadness in it a bit more: “... dance the blues”. There aren’t many songs like that – it’s like a versatile herb that can go on any dish. I fell in love with the melody before anything else. It’s a gold melody, that becomes more legato and sad in the chorus section. The combination of the lyrics being quite beautiful and fragile and the music being bold and colourful just grabbed me. He wasn’t reinventing himself like Madonna reinvented herself – that seems like a business thing to me, whereas with Bowie, he’s just a creative person doing different projects. He was so versatile and multitalented. I’ll miss the unpredictability of his genius.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Official video for Let’s Dance released in 1983Desiree Akhavan (director, Appropriate Behaviour): Modern Love      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Desiree Akhavan. Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverDavid Bowie was the first bisexual I ever encountered. Not that I fully understood that as a thing that existed until later in life, he just radiated a general queerness/otherness even a child could read. We live in a binary world, so when he showed up on my MTV and the local video store’s copy of Labyrinth it was frightening and provocative to watch someone make up their own rules. In each of his incarnations there was a common thread of ambiguity: both masculine and feminine, gay and straight, and beautiful in a way I hadn’t been coded to recognise. I listen to Modern Love at least once a day. It happens to contain the secret to successful filmmaking: “It’s not really work. It’s just the power to charm.” Most importantly I see it as an anthem of youth and freedom. My teens and 20s were spent in permanent survival mode, but coming out gave me youth. Now I make up my own rules.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Recording of Modern Love from 1983Elizabeth Peyton (artist): Sweet Thing/Candidate/Sweet Thing (Reprise)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘I think a lot about David Bowie’ … Elizabeth Peyton. Photograph: Gabriela Maj/Getty ImagesThis song has so many David Bowies in it. It’s like an opera where he is singing every part, his voice is everything. I think a lot about David Bowie. I listen to his music for hours at a time in the studio. Somehow it seems trite to try to say how inspiring he is, how beautiful his music is, because it’s just so much more.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Sweet Thing/Candidate/Sweet Thing (Reprise) from Diamond Dogs, released in 1974La Roux: Fascination       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   La Roux Photograph: Publicity image from music companyChoosing your favourite Bowie song is a bit of an impossible question, but I think I would go for this track from Young Americans. There’s a smoothness and and a sexiness to it. He’s trying to reinterpret soul but not just doing it like some cringey white guy playing soul – he brings a certain kind of art and drama to it that’s all his own. I was watching a load of his performances recently and it really struck home how theatrical he could be. It’s so hard to do that – even Kate Bush can be irritating with it, but Bowie never was. As an artist, you’re always hoping for your influences to come out in your music, but not in an obvious way where people say “Oh, this sounds like this or that” – you want it to sound like you, and Bowie always sounded like Bowie, no matter what his influences were. Young Americans has some bad tracks on it but it really influenced me and my last album. There’s a guitar part in the second verse that plays against another guitar part, and when I heard that for the first time I think I cried with happiness for about 30 minutes. It felt like it had been written just for me, and that’s what Bowie could do with music.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Fascination, taken from the Young Americans album, released in 1975Tim Burgess (the Charlatans): Rebel Rebel      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tim Burgess. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianIt’s almost impossible to choose a favourite Bowie album, never mind picking just one song. His work was cutting edge in six different decades and took in countless genres, many of which he just casually invented. But this was a song that united so many outsiders and let them know it was OK to be themselves. It inspired a creative generation. On a personal level it still brings me out in goosebumps as it was the first song in his set after we played before him at the Isle of Wight festival. He came over while we were backstage and I just didn’t know what to say. “Hi, I’m the singer in the Charlatans. We’re playing before you” was my intro. He smiled and just said: “I know, Tim. I know.” Just to know that somehow I had made it into Bowie’s universe was mindblowing. Next time I saw him, he was singing Rebel Rebel to an adoring audience whose lives he had helped to shape. His legacy is beyond that of any other performer.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bowie performing Rebel Rebel live on Dutch music show Top Pop in 1974Al Doyle (Hot Chip / LCD Soundsystem): Wild is the Wind      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Al Doyle. Photograph: Agencia EFE / Rex FeaturesThere have been times, as late-night parties dwindled down to a maudlin hard core, when the thought has crossed my mind to play this song. But, unable to to say with any certainty that I won’t be reduced to a blubbering, embarrassed mess, I hold back. This song is for solitary listening. It was clearly a cover that meant a great deal to Bowie, who was emulating the barely-contained yearning power of the Nina Simone version. I wonder whether he felt any anxiety about how to present the song; that old canard of whether one can “do it justice”. That should of course never have been a consideration. The performance seems to flow from such a raw place in this recording, as though there is an instantaneous confluence of writing and singing. Absolutely ecstatic, and devastatingly intimate; I will be listening to it from now on with my head in my hands.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Official video for Wild is the Wind, from Station to Station album released in 1976Marianne Faithfull: “Heroes”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Marianne Faithfull Photograph: Publicity image from PR companyI love Golden Years; I love the Spiders from Mars, though I didn’t get it at the time, and I look back now and think, well, it was a little bit vulgar. The most sophisticated record he made was Young Americans. But I think “Heroes” is his really great song, because it makes people feel better, feel good. “We can be heroes, just for one day” – it’s a wonderful sentiment. He was very giving, very generous with his work. The dark side is much easier; to really give people things to be happy about is very hard, and to do it a really beautiful artistic way is even harder. On my first tour he was at the bottom of the bill, as Davy Jones. We later performed together in The 1980 Floor Show – I was very insecure and frightened, but I managed it, and now I’m so glad I did it. But I didn’t always do what he wanted. He wanted me to sing The Man Who Sold The World and I didn’t think I could do it. He frightened me a little bit, actually. But I said no, and he did it with Lulu. I learned a lot from him about writing songs – and to not go to Berlin and take cocaine and heroin. And I’ve still got a lot to learn from him. I respect people who evolve, who don’t stay the same, who let go of the past. There are things I should let go of that are very hard, things I should forgive that I find very hard. But I’m getting there. My feelings are: go well, Dave. I don’t see that death is so terrible, really. It’s terrible for everyone else – but look what he left behind, and how much he gave.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Video for ‘Heroes’, the title track of Bowie’s 1977 albumNoel Fielding: Moonage Daydream      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Noel Fielding. Photograph: REX/RexMy mum and dad are massive Bowie fans so I grew up listening to his music. When I was a kid I always thought it was someone different whenever I saw him, but then I realised it was the same person with 18 different styles – all of which are pretty good. Moonage Daydream is my favourite because it’s an amazing pop tune with such strange parts to it. I always loved the lyrics: “Keep your mouth shut, you’re squawking like a pink monkey bird.” What does that mean? It always used to blow my mind. I would play it on my recent tour as warm up music for when people were coming into the theatre, too. You need a song you can dance to and get excited by and that was one that always worked.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Amanda Palmer: Amsterdam      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Amanda Palmer. Photograph: Sarah Lee for the GuardianIt’s a cover of a Jacques Brel song. In that way that Brel managed, and Bertolt Brecht managed, it’s fantastic storytelling with no sentimentality, and that’s why it’s awesome. That style of cabaret story songwriting can be so cheesy, and stock, and sentimental. And here it’s not – here’s humanity, a portrait of people and pain and life and death and sex and how it is, with just enough poetry to take you to the place, but not enough poetry to cover it in schmaltz. Bowie, because he had the cockiness and wherewithal, just owned it; he might as well have written it. He was such a convincing, believable performer and singer, taking music that we may have never heard, and proffering it up so we could have it. I was so taken with the song that I added it to my repertoire and it stayed there for ever.My husband, Neil Gaiman, grew up at the altar of Bowie. About a week ago we went down a YouTube hole, delving into old videos, talking about China Girl and whether people would freak out about it being racist nowadays ... having this hour-long Bowie fest. Our friend said that David Bowie really wanted to be Iggy Pop or Lou Reed, and Neil said no, he wanted to be Frank Sinatra. He wasn’t so much in the lineage of Iggy Pop, he was in the lineage of Jacques Brel and Frank Sinatra, these old-school, fully graceful entertainers. He created a mythology for us to believe in, in the way those old stars did. He had enough of a sense of humour and modernity to let everyone in on the joke, but there was still this sense he was more entertainer than rock star. My band the Dresden Dolls held that really dear – our friends’ heroes were punks and rockers, but I was looking to the cabaret heroes and chanteuse heroes. And David Bowie was on team cabaret.Riding the line between being a presentational entertainer and being authentic – so few people pull it off. If you don’t have good music as a presentational entertainer, you’re a flash in the pan. But Bowie had fantastic songs. He will endure. And it makes me so happy to see 22 year olds knowing their Bowie – he filtered through.Graham Coxon (Blur): Ashes to Ashes      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Graham Coxon.When I was 11 I would tape the top 10 on my dad’s reel to reel. Ashes to Ashes was in the charts along with Start! by the Jam, and they were the two songs that made a massive impression on me. They are very different – the Jam was easy for me to get to via the Beatles but Ashes to Ashes was a lot more unfamiliar to me. It did a similar thing to my brain though – like Tomorrow Never Knows did when I was four or five. I loved the sound of it. The rather vague lyrics that an 11-year-old wouldn’t be able to untangle – it’s about addiction, about the horrific nature of it rather than the way rock’n’roll usually celebrates the opposite side of it. His vocals were also immaculate on all of his stuff, but my reaction to the resonance of the lyrics in Ashes to Ashes – “I never done good things / I never done bad things” – makes me well up and all the hairs stand up every time. It’s just something to do with the vagueness; you can interpret it to mean something personal, like all good lyrics do.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Official video for Ashes to Ashes, released in 1980Julien Temple (director, Absolute Beginners): Space Oddity      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Julien Temple Photograph: Martin Argles for the GuardianI could have picked The Laughing Gnome. I was on a tour with David in the 80s in America, and they had this idea of a phone-in competition to vote for which song to play. In Pittsburgh they voted for The Laughing Gnome. He loved that – his laughter was fantastic. It reminds me of how self-deprecating he was; the irony of everything was not lost on him. But it has to be Space Oddity. The first time I saw him play it was extraordinary. I was at Glastonbury in 1971, and I had run away from school for the weekend. It was a shambolic event – by the time he went on it was four in the morning and everyone was asleep. I remember being slapped around the face with a wet towel by this guy saying: “You’ve got to wake up, this guy is amazing, from another planet!” People were running through the festival, waking everyone up. There he was, in a dress with an acoustic guitar, with this dawn chorus accompanying him. It was as though he was singing from another dimension. He was the voice for outsiders and misfits, people who didn’t quite know what they were meant to be doing with themselves. He was about challenging people to explore to the full who they might be. To try something, fuck it up, learn from that, and do something else. That constant changing of persona had a huge echo for young people at that time: I can be a load of different things. It was liberating, particularly for people who had been marginalised for not fitting in. He’s the patron saint of misfits. There was a “year zero” about Bowie that you had with punk, but in a different way. He was capable of being anything, and he challenged you to think about yourself in the same way. It was very personalised, the impact of Bowie on people. He’s so universal and so weird and so normal, all at the same time. There’s a tension between those poles within him: the kind of normality of the guy next door, that Bowie was when you met him, and this extraordinary transformative star figure that catalysed people’s sense of self. He surprised me when I met him – I didn’t expect him to be so normal. But then there’s this blastoff, of transforming into something completely incandescent. A star power that he seemed to be able to summon up and unleash. It’s hard to think of him as history, because he was always the future.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bowie performing Space Oddity, his 1969 breakthrough hitCorey Taylor (Slipknot): Fashion      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Corey Taylor Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianI can’t figure out which Bowie song I love the most, but it’s definitely between Ashes to Ashes and Fashion. They’re both so dark and awesome in their own way. I loved everything he did, but those two songs are definitely my favourites. There is no way to sum up David Bowie in a handful of sentences – the man deserves his own volume of encyclopedias. He was the very epitome of an artist, singer, writer, actor, performer, provocateur … the list goes on and on. I can’t believe he’s gone. He is and always will be one of my favorites, and I only hope I can come close to what he achieved. Spaceman is going home, and we will all miss you.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Recording of Fashion from the 1980 album Scary Monsters (and Super Creeps)Frank Cottrell Boyce (author and playwright): Word on a Wing      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Frank Cottrell Boyce. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the GuardianBlackstar isn’t the first album Bowie made at death’s door. When he made Station to Station he was paranoid and malnourished, strung out on coke and black magic. The album bristles with fascist and diabolic imagery and yet there in the middle of side two comes this breathless, passionate, theologically very straightforward hymn: “Lord I kneel and over you my word on a wing, I’m trying hard to fit into your scheme of things.” I wasn’t surprised years later to discover that the title was nothing to do with trains but with the Stations of the Cross. I know nothing of Bowie’s religious beliefs but this grasp at redemption has often fed my own. At the height of the icy, controlling Thin White Duke period, he makes himself vulnerable and weak and invites grace in. It’s a personal Passion. It’s also incredibly beautiful.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bowie performing Word on a Wing live at the Manhattan Center in New YorkJustin Young (the Vaccines): “Heroes”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Justin Young Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianOne of the first CDs I remember getting was called Music of the Millennium, and it had all these artists I couldn’t quite believe were alive in my lifetime. People like Bob Dylan, who just seemed like mythical creators of nursery rhymes. And obviously Bowie was on one of them. “Heroes” definitely isn’t my favourite Bowie song, but it strikes me as an important one. It’s so hard to think of any of our most innovative artists now singing with so much optimism and so little pretension. To me, he represents fun, freedom, aspiration and hope. I guess a reason why so many people are mourning is because they feel like a part of that has gone with him.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Bowie performing ‘Heroes’ at the Glastonbury festival in 2000