Tomorrow is World Animal Day, created to improve animal welfare standards. The ultimate aim, as stated on the organiser’s website, is to create a world where all animals are recognised as sentient beings. That noble endeavour is designed to strike a chord in every corner of this beautiful planet.Except in the UK, obviously, because in Britain we’re all monsters. To commemorate World Animal Day, Odeon Cinemas commissioned a survey to discover which film animal British people would most like to keep as a pet. The results are nothing less than harrowing. In fact, hereare a few of the Top 20 dream movie pets as a demonstration of the nation’s woeful disregard for all animal life.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roddy McDowall and Lassie. Photograph: Sportsphoto/Allstar/Cine TextLassieThe screen’s top dog comes in at No 1. This is too easy. It’s exactly the sort of lazy response people give if they don’t care about animals and just want to put the phone down on the person doing the survey as quickly as possible.NemoFinding Nemo is about a helpless fish losing his mind with anguish as he attempts to escape the miserable shackles of human captivity. And you want to keep him as a pet? Dreadful.LadyFrom Lady and the Tramp, the film where a couple buy a dog and then immediately fall out of love with it as soon as they have a baby.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest ‘We must be firm from the very beginning’ … Lady and the TrampWinnie the PoohA bear. What sort of sick person wants to keep a bear as a pet? You’re disgusting.Barking at the box office: can a dead dog make a movie lead? MarleyI’ve seen Marley & Me, and that dog is definitely dead. Well done for wanting to keep a dead dog in your house, you berserk Norman Bates wannabe.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jennifer Aniston and runaway dog in Marley & Me. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/Everett/RexBeethovenFrom the series of films where a family picks an inappropriately sized dog as a pet and nothing bad whatsoever happens to anyone.DoryFrom Finding Dory, another film where an animal is ripped from the wild and forced to live a dejected life under the cold jackboots of humanity.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest BalooNot just a bear, but a bear that sings a song about how happy he is to live in the wild. He literally sings a song about it, you barbarians. But, fine, no, chain him to a post and keep him next to a shed until the light fades from his eyes and he dies a sad husk of his former self. Black BeautyJesus Christ, have you actually read Black Beauty? It’s 12 Years a Slave with saddles. You people are messed the hell up.DumboConsider this rationally. You live in a two-bed flat with a stranger. What are you going to do with a flying elephant? It’s almost definitely going to invalidate your security deposit. Think this through, you moron.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The film that inspired a thousand Christmas gifts … 101 Dalmatians. Photograph: Everett/Rex ShutterstockLuckyA character from 101 Dalmatians. It looks as if you’re saying: “I want to keep Lucky from 101 Dalmatians as a pet.” You’re actually saying: “I hate those other 100 dalmatians and I’ll only be happy when they’re dead.” The RSPCA was set up to stop people like you having pets, you know.Kermit the FrogKermit the Frog is a global superstar. Spotted by an agent in his Louisiana swamp, he became a global icon, a movie star, the performer of an Oscar-winning song and, at time of writing, the showrunner of a huge US network series. But, sure, you keep him as a pet. Put him in a pond and feed him gravel, you unthinking abomination of a human. Good God, you make me sick.