If you were looking for exciting contemporary theatre in the UK, where might you look? The obvious answer is that you would head to London and venues such as Battersea Arts Centre (BAC) or the Royal Court. Or to the small studio theatres in cities and large towns across the country, from Derby and Exeter to Cambridge to Edinburgh. But would you think to look in rural locations? In their village halls, small arts centres, pubs, libraries and pop-up venues? Maybe you should, particularly at a time when there has been an erosion of opportunities for small-scale touring theatre.The Iranian Feast review – charming show about the soup of human kindness It was one of the questions raised at the latest A Nation’s Theatre conversation, presented by the Guardian and BAC, which took place at Farnham Maltings last week. The title of the conversation was I Liked It But I Couldn’t Book It, which came from something I overheard a village-hall promoter say following a showcase of work presented at the National Rural Touring Forum (NRTF) last year.That comment suggests that theatre programmed in rural settings is somehow always going to be cosier, less challenging and more old fashioned, in both form and content, than work that is programmed and toured elsewhere. The number of active local promoters has risen by more than 40% in the past 10 years. But there is a feeling that, while rural touring theatre boasts some terrific work, many promoters are playing it safe and choosing not to programme the most challenging contemporary work. Or perhaps it’s that artists don’t think they can make such work for rural audiences. Perhaps they worry that the work might be damaged by if it has to be pared down for a rural tour. Perhaps they don’t always understand that a show’s function is different in a rural context? As the writer Kevin Dyer observed drily: “Not all plays written for rural touring have to have a tractor in them.” Farnham Maltings: the craft-loving community that's a close-knit success But there is something substantially different about watching a show amid a crowd of strangers and watching it in the company of people whom you may well encounter everyday in the community.A piece about neighbourliness and what home means will play very differently in the anonymity of a city theatre than in the heart of a community. As initiatives such as the Collaborative Touring Network or Fuel’s New Theatre in Your Neighbourhood strand have found, as they seek to find local promoters with local knowledge, a production creates meaning not just through the choices it makes but also from the context in which it is delivered.What does it mean for artists if their show is the reason the community has gathered, but is only one component of an evening of which, for some people, the main event will be the raffle or the interval buffet? And is that so very different for a lot of London theatre-going, where, for much of the audience, the interval glass of wine or the post-show dinner are as much a part of the evening as the show itself?There is a misconception that audiences in rural settings are somehow less sophisticated or less engaged than metropolitan audiences. This is a mistake. Although only 2.5% of national portfolio organisation (NPO) investment goes to organisations in rural areas, 17.6% of the population live in rural areas. According to the Arts Council’s Taking Part survey, these audiences have a higher level of arts engagement than those in urban areas. They don’t just like to consume art, they like to make it too.So there is a great deal of potential for artists and companies who want to work in rural settings and are looking for different models to do so. Tom Spencer of Fine Chisel observed that, while the company are happy to do traditional village-hall tours, they are also keen to do pop-up gigs in almost any setting, or longer term residencies in which they become embedded within the community, getting to know them and delivering workshops and more.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Squally Showers, a dance-theatre show about 1980s politics, created and devised by Little Bulb theatre and produced by Farnham Maltings. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the GuardianThe success of Creative Arts East’s project, in which poets and theatre-makers have been resident in pubs and libraries, points a way forward for those wanting to work in rural areas; local authority wellbeing or pride of place initiatives also offer opportunities and funding. Sometimes artists are mistakenly a bit sniffy about such schemes, but one of the wonderful things about rural touring is that it allows artists to directly meet their audience in a way that often doesn’t happen in other contexts.Checking out the Farnham Maltings website before my visit, it made me smile to see one comment from a user who liked the place because it was where he went both to see standup comedy and to give blood. Nobody would ever say that about the National Theatre – but maybe we should be able to. Otherwise, theatre becomes separated from the everyday lives of ordinary people and hidden away in cathedrals to art that have no connection to the real world. As David Jubb argued in the Stage last week, as BAC takes stock on the first anniversary of the fire which destroyed its Grand Hall, we need to rethink what theatres are for.Artists must think more about who their audiences might be There was quite a lot of debate during the conversation in Farnham about the quality of work – something I wrote about following the NRTF showcase last year – and about whether rural touring should involve taking audiences on a journey. Natalie Jode of Creative Arts East talked about appetite-building: hearing what the audience says and using that as a way of developing cultural education. Gavin Stride, of Farnham Maltings, said: “Every time I give the audience what they want, I disappoint them,” suggesting that rural audiences are as demanding as any other and deserve the best, and it’s just the way that you frame the offer that matters.People may run a mile if they are offered a piece of challenging, form-busting new writing about why people become refugees. But if it is marketed as a piece that takes the form of party and involves the preparation of food, they won’t be so put off. Both descriptions cover the excellent show The Iranian Feast, currently out on tour from the Maltings, a producing venue which over the years has built up a relationship of trust with artists, audiences and promoters on tour.The issue of trust seems key. When trust is won, it means opportunities for artists to take contemporary theatre to new audiences in new settings, and for those audiences to see exciting theatre without the cost and transport issues of leaving their own location. But the stakes are higher than they are for artistic directors and producers operating in cities. If a local promoter puts on a show in the village hall that the audience doesn’t like, he or she might have to face that audience in the village shop the very next day. That isn’t an issue for Rufus Norris at the National. He may be grateful for it. But maybe there are opportunities and advantages to that kind of close connection. It’s a reminder that artists and audiences don’t live on different planets, and that both benefit from being in constant dialogue with each other.A Nation’s Theatre debates are run in conjunction with Guardian Live. To find out about upcoming events, sign up to Guardian Members.