The Oscar-winning director Andrew Stanton, on making the leap from Finding Nemo and Wall-E to the ill-fated space spectacular John Carter, was asked to name the biggest difference between live action and animated film-making. His reply: the cost of reshoots.Pixar, Stanton said, might reconfigure a movie half a dozen times before considering it finished. With an entirely digital mise-en-scène, the studio’s greatest expense when trying to turn around a failing film was the re-recording of dialogue. Video could then be reworked to match remarkably cheaply, via not much more (figuratively speaking) than a few swipes of an animator’s mouse.Do Rogue One reshoots spell the end for Hollywood's dark side? With a live-action movie such as John Carter, even a single set of reshoots could see budgets ballooning out of control – especially if the faulty original footage had been shot on location. The idea of being able to shoot for a third or fourth time, if a film still didn’t sit quite right, was simply out of the question. The anecdote perhaps explains why John Carter, still for me a fine movie, is generally seen as a black mark on Stanton’s otherwise spotless résumé. But it should also give us some perspective on reports this week that Gareth Edwards’ Rogue One: A Star Wars Story is in crisis, with some fan sites suggesting up to 40% of the movie is being reshot.Star Wars: The Force Awakens also went through a limited reshoot process before being put to bed. And JJ Abrams has gone on record to say that Finn and Rey’s scenes on board the Millennium Falcon were completely rewritten (and later reshot) during a two-week break that followed Harrison Ford’s on-set injury. Movies do change in the making.The term reshoot has come to resemble shorthand for rampant studio interference and a sense of film-makers floundering in Herzogian creative jungles. But some of the greatest blockbuster movies of all-time, from Jaws to Back to the Future and ET, went through radical late reworkings. Why Han Solo: A Star Wars Story must balance nostalgia with new adventures Spielberg’s pioneering shark thriller initially showed us far more of the dodgy-looking mechanical fish itself, until the young director realised that giving the viewer only occasional glimpses of the beast, Hitchcock-style, would radically amp up the movie’s fear factor. Back to the Future featured Eric Stoltz, not Michael J Fox, as the time-travelling teen Marty McFly. ET never woke up from under all those medical straps to resurrect Gertie’s chrysanthemum and finally go home.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Watch the trailer for Rogue One: A Star Wars StoryThe difference with all of the above is that none of the changes were imposed on the film-maker by studios, and it remains to be seen whether the same applies to Rogue One. A Reddit thread posted by an anonymous source who claims to be close to the movie suggests Edwards is bitterly disappointed at Disney’s decision to add levity to a film he has always pitched as a relatively dark “war movie”. Some reports say Michael Clayton’s Tony Gilroy is effectively reshooting the film himself, with Edwards sidelined. Others say Gilroy has simply been added as a second unit director and additional screenwriter.It must be said that Rogue One does appear to be a heading into “too many cooks” territory, with After Earth’s Gary Whitta also previously removed from duties on a screenplay that, officially, is now entirely the work of The Golden Compass’s Chris Weitz. But again, The Force Awakens went through a similar process, with Little Miss Sunshine writer Michael Arndt’s script radically reworked by Abrams and Lawrence Kasdan. The end result there pleased most Star Wars fans.Reaction to reports of reshoots seems to have been split into two camps: those concerned that Disney might be trying to “water down” Edwards’ original vision, and those wondering why the Godzilla director was given the gig in the first place rather than somebody like Joss Whedon. Let’s not forget this is a director with origins in horror (the excellent Monsters), whose first major movie opened with a scene in which a husband looks on in terror as his wife is left trapped on the wrong side of a blast door in a collapsing nuclear reactor. Rogue One was always going to have its dark side.Pacific Rim 2: Star Wars' John Boyega cast as lead in sequel to monster epic Studio sources have told Entertainment Weekly that the reshoots were scheduled long ago as part of the normal production process for a major film, and are mainly to add extra crackle to dialogue. But if Disney really has asked for a lighter tone, it says a lot about the success of Star Wars: The Force Awakens and its effect on the brave new cinematic universe being built around Abrams’ blockbuster megalith.When Rogue One was first announced, Edwards’ comments on the film suggested the spin-off movies would be given free rein to shift into spikier, weirder territory, while the main movies in Star Wars’ new trilogy cleaved closely to the long-running space saga’s traditional feelgood formula. That no longer appears to be the plan, if we are to believe some of this week’s reports. And in many ways that’s a pity. Star Wars, despite its fantasy leanings and the original 1977 film’s U rating, has never been a saga of buttercups and fairy cakes. From the deaths of Obi Wan-Kenobi, Yoda, Han Solo and Vader himself to Luke Skywalker’s Kurosawan loss of limb in The Empire Strikes Back, the series has always balanced light and dark. Moreover, if Disney really does want to make future films about morally dubious figures such as Boba Fett, it is going to have to accept that some episodes will be grimmer than others, and therefore less suitable for children.In the meantime, there are still a full six months before Rogue One hits cinemas, and there are far worse rumours to worry about than a few reshoots. Some fans still seem to be convinced that Hayden Christensen is returning as Darth Vader.