Roman Krznaric is a philosopher and writer whose books include Empathy, The Wonderbox and How to Find Fulfilling Work. He believes that we need to cultivate empathy to create change: both politically and in our relationships.He considers himself a “late developer” philosopher. Although he attended Oxford to study philosophy, his time there as a young student “was a disaster”, he says. “It was all logic and analytical philosophy. The Plato stuff – how to be good, how to lead a good life – is not taught so much any more. Academic philosophy has been a failure for the last century.”Although he left the country at 14, Krznaric considers himself Australian and visits regularly. He will discuss the importance of empathy at talks in Sydney and Melbourne and has brought his Empathy Museum’s A Mile in My Shoes to the Perth International arts festival.Facebook doesn’t understand that there’s no one-click shortcut to empathy | Roman Krznaric You’ve tried a lot of different work in your life, from teaching to gardening. I’ve had many jobs and I’ve left many jobs. I’ve always wanted to feel complete freedom. When I taught I really felt the strictures, the lack of freedom – there were things you couldn’t do as an academic ... I have always been aspiring to be a wide achiever rather than a high achiever. I trained as a gardener for a while but it didn’t work out. I didn’t have a green thumb.People can find it quite hard to leave a career they’ve invested in.It’s called sunk costs. You’ve already put in a lot of time studying. It’s quite hard to give up because of that investment, even when you know it isn’t what you want to be. We are very bad judges of our future selves … Who knows when you are 18 what we want to be at 25 or 35, but I like that idea of constant changing.Sociologist Richard Sennett has a different idea. He writes a lot about craftsmanship and sticking with one thing, refining it and mastering it.The interesting thing about him is that he has been a novelist, musician and academic. He is a complete Renaissance person.I understand his point about the satisfaction to be found in craftsmanship. I studied furniture-making and once made a chair. I did the process from beginning to end: I chopped down the tree, I honed the bark, I sat in it. It was a very nurturing process.But I have also tried the specialist route. I have a PhD in Guatemalan political history. We need experts in the world. I don’t want an amateur heart surgeon operating with my father, I want a specialist. But there has been a social shift in that there is a recognition that we have multiple identities. That is what post modernism is about. We want to nurture these sides in ourselves. We want to nurture these things in work.Work-life balance was a buzzword around 10 years ago, but that seems defeated as a concept. Sometimes there is no life, just work.That is true and this has been forced on us. It’s so hard to escape work, due in a large part to technology. You might as well be doing something that you care about because more and more of our lives are work. If I am awake for 16 hours a day and eight to 10 hours of that is work then I might as well do something I’m engaged in.Instead of work-life balance there has been a rise in the notion of wellbeing. Hyper-capitalism does not care about us, we know that now. There has been a rejection in greed is good, but how can we look after ourselves in our workplace?What if you work in a call centre and have to read off a script and are closely supervised. Surely that person will find it more difficult to have fulfilling work or get a sense of wellbeing from work? The question there is not how to find fulfilling work but how to make your work more bearable. One of the solutions is to have autonomy or flexibility over hours. That has been hugely liberating for people even if they don’t like what they do. Autonomy has been satisfying for these people when you get to work some of the time from home or have flexible hours and have some control over your time. Quality of relationships is also helpful. If you work in a call centre and have a laugh, that can carry people through for a time. My father worked for a big computer company, IBM, for 51 years. He didn’t always enjoy his work but the sense of community was strong.The other way to make work better is what psychologists call flow. You have a challenge and you get into the zone and this could apply whether you are a surgeon or building a brick wall.You write about a concept called outrospection, which is essentially the opposite of introspection. You say outrospection is a way to get to know oneself by developing relationships and empathetic thinking with others. What are some of the values that embody this?Introspection was championed through the self-help industry and promoted by celebrities such as Oprah. Consumer culture, in which you look after number one, is also a part of this.In contrast, empathy is about stepping outside yourself and the values follow empathy. What empathy brings us is an interest in human rights and social justice. Whether its workers’ rights, gay rights, women’s right, there needs to be outrospection in order to advance the rights of others.For me, empathy is about collective values – trying to shift us from that 20th century individualism. But we are now in a more urgent need of empathy than ever before because of the toxic social debates we are having, debates around asylum seekers and wealth inequalities, for example.The debates we are hearing from candidates in the US presidential election doesn’t display a great deal of empathy, such as Trump and his stance on immigration and Islam.I am a pendulum person. Sometimes I feel very optimistic and sometimes pessimistic. I look at the rise of online harassment, abuse and trolling, the rise of the far right in Europe, the asylum seeker debate, and Donald Trump, and I feel very pessimistic. Then I see a counterpoint or a parallel rise of empathic concern on a social and political scale and feel optimistic. You see that in the rise of Bernie Sanders, the Occupy movement and talk of inequality, the indignados (outraged) movement in Spain, in the writing of [Thomas] Piketty, you are seeing an interest in collective values and you are seeing the rise of empathy teaching in schools. You are seeing the rise of Friends of the Earth in the UK talking about empathising with future generations when it comes to climate change.Since the end of the cold war, the modern world has been defined by unpredictability. We have unpredictability in financial markets, the rise of China, there are uncertainties around climate change – these are times of change. When things are uncertain, things can change.But not always in a good way.The rise of anti-refugee sentiment has a lot to do with economic uncertainty. There has been such a decline in confidence in government to deal with things like economic recession, terrorism and the climate, which is why you have things like the rise of the new left in Spain and Greece. There is a general trend in times of instability towards conservatism.How my children became my greatest teachers Can one have too much empathy? Distance can be healthy.One form of empathy is affective empathy: you see anguish on a child’s face in a newspaper and you feel pain as well. Then there’s cognitive empathy or perspective-taking empathy and that’s less emotionally charged. It’s only a small percentage of people who get overwhelmed.You want your doctor to shift between cognitive and affective empathy and a good doctor or humanitarian aid worker is in a dance with this. Your doctor will sympathise with your pain but not to the point where they can’t treat you sensibly.A lot of people think that people who have too much empathy are paralysed into inaction, but studies have shown these people are more likely to act than others. That’s really interesting. Empathy makes a difference. In the end we humanise other people through empathy. You see a little of you in them.  The Empathy Museum presents A Mile in My Shoes. Photograph: Miranda Brown PublicityDehumanising people is like permission to be an arsehole, without the guilt.There was a famous study done about soldiers in world war two. A third of them never pulled the trigger. What the military leaders found was that the soldiers had too much empathy and so they couldn’t kill at close range. They realised they had to train soldiers to dehumanise the enemy and so you have soldiers calling the Vietnamese “gooks” in the Vietnam war. You treat them as “the other”. Even better, drop bombs and you don’t have to see them. The whole drone warfare thing is that it distances you from the enemy.Cultivating empathy is an ongoing life project. The project I am focused on is an empathy museum (A Mile in My Shoes) on Sterling Street, the main drag of Perth. It’s a giant shoe box and you can put on shoes that belong to someone else: shoes of a sex worker, or a Sri Lankan Tamil refugee, or a young mother who has had all sorts of mental distress. It’s all about trying to see the world of others. Books are not enough for social change. You need to work on a number of levels.• Roman Krznaric on Empathy is presented in association with Guardian Australia, at Melbourne Town Hall on 24 February and Sydney Opera House on 28 February. The Empathy Museum’s A Mile in My Shoes is at Perth festival until 6 March