Not least among the excellent things about the Edinburgh fringe is that, traditionally, it’s where comedians premiere their brand new shows, ones that go on to tour the UK or take London by storm. Lucky Edinburgh audiences, who get these new sets at the optimum moment: when they’re in full working order, but fresher than they’ll ever be again.Edinburgh festival 2016: the shows we recommend That’s the fringe’s time-honoured role, but it’s evolving, or being undermined – depending on your perspective. In recent years, more comics aren’t launching their new shows in Edinburgh, they’re developing them here. These shows are billed as works-in-progress. The finished version will launch elsewhere. Maybe it’ll come back to the fringe a year later, post-tour. Edinburgh audiences may now be the last to see completed new shows, not the first.There are several factors at play. One is that, as their industry has exploded over the last 15 years, the ways have multiplied in which comics can present their work. When I started reviewing, hardly any acts toured; now they tour by the score. Back then, there was no Soho theatre or Invisible Dot or Leicester Square theatre to host substantial London runs. Edinburgh was a comedian’s major (only?) chance to perform and perfect full-length shows, and most acts structured their year around doing so.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Katherine Ryan returned to the fringe this year with a work-in-progress show. Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverNowadays, a whole tier of comics either don’t need Edinburgh (ie they already have pulling power) or may prefer not to work to an Edinburgh-centric schedule. Look at this year’s work-in-progress acts: Josie Long; Katherine Ryan; Stephen K Amos; Stewart Lee (the pioneer of the whole phenomenon); Al Murray, Russell Howard. To bill their shows as works-in-progress gives these performers flexibility – to present something unfinished, to experiment with ideas that may not make the finished show, to be less good, frankly, than they’d feel obliged to be in a battle-ready new show.Bridget Christie five-star review – an electrifying Brexit tirade The in-progress label also keeps the press at bay, controlling the reaction to new work. Convention requires reviewers to avoid works-in-progress, as long as other indicators, such as short run and reduced ticket prices, verify that the work really is at an embryonic stage. But critics may bridle when, for example, Al Murray charges £19.50 per ticket, a high price on the fringe, particularly for a rough-and-unready show. Even Long and Ryan’s in-progress offerings cost more than, say, Fern Brady and the 2015 award nominee Seymour Mace’s finished shows at the same venue. But, hey, you can’t buck the market, right? And their tickets are cheap by beyond-Edinburgh standards.You could argue that if a show is good enough for three weeks of public performances, or a £19.50 ticket price, then it is good enough for the critics. At the fringe, however, it’s not worth making a fuss – for we reviewers, there’s so much else to see. Of the workers-in-progress, Bridget Christie seems to me to strike a fair balance. Her new show, Mortal, was belatedly billed as in-progress – but after honing it in public for a week or so, she admitted the press. The distinction may be largely meaningless to audiences. There is certainly no falloff in the hordes keen to see Daniel Kitson’s standup show, which was intended as a rough pilot version for a forthcoming tour. That tour was subsequently cancelled, and the comic was left with what he jokes, at the start of the show, is just “a booked room and a contractual obligation”.Crystal balls: What will Edinburgh be like in 2050? Is it inferior to a “proper” Kitson show? Well, yes. It’s 90 minutes, for a start, which even a near-genius like Kitson struggles to fill with half-baked ideas alone. But the potential of those ideas is luminously evident, as he riffs on “effective altruism”, recounting his efforts to be not philanthropic for his own sake, but to make that philanthropy count. Alongside that still-brittle backbone, there’s loads of terrific crowd work. Not surprisingly, given how straitjacketed his very good solo theatre piece is elsewhere on the fringe, it’s clear how much fun Kitson has here cutting loose, winging it before a room that is 100% on his side.At only £5 per ticket, and with a title loudly signalling the show’s unfinished state, his set showcases the advantage of big-hitting acts bringing works-in-progress to the fringe. It enables a back-to-basics interaction, a looser, purer brand of standup, a more alive performer-audience communion, before “the show” forecloses options and imposes itself. I still hanker after the actual show (coherent, developing ideas; dramatic/comedic structure; etc), and hope to see it in due course. You wouldn’t want all A-list comics here hedging their bets behind work-in-progress labels – not least because not all of their undigested ideas will be as funny as Kitson’s. But when you kick back with a midday 90 minutes as sketchily hilarious as this, it’s hard to see the phenomenon as a bad thing.