When is a band T-shirt a piece of merchandise, and when is it part of a high-fashion capsule collection? The blurring of the lines has been brought jarringly to the fore with American department store Barneys elling T-shirts from punk band Black Flag for a whopping $250 (£201).The Black Flag tee comes in brushed Japanese cotton cashmere and sits alongside similarly priced tops from David Bowie, Joy Division, Run DMC and more. In terms of copyright, when a band logo is not trademarked, the designer has questionable legal claim over it.The Black Flag logo was designed by Raymond Pettibon, and there have been various unresolved claims over the work (not helped by the fact Pettibon is the brother of band founder Greg Ginn). There have been similar wranglings around the Rolling Stones and the AC/DC logo; Gerard Huerta, who designed the latter’s image in the 70s, is said to have received no royalties from it.Rob O’Connor, creative director at Stylerouge, the people behind Blur’s logo, says: “You are the intellectual property owner of the work, according to the 1988 Patent Act, until you sign that right away.” But other things can get in the way: “There might be nothing in writing to say you created it, or someone may have redesigned it slightly and then it’s credited to someone else. Or an old manager or record company could have extended the copyright without asking,” he says.Or you could be a friend of the band who just did them a favour. Mark Wagstaff was asked by the band’s manager to design a logo for 80s goth band Gaye Bykers on Acid. “I designed the Purple Fluid Exchange logo for an extra tenner on top of the tenner I was getting to paint her flat,” he explains. “There was no mention of copyright.”As O’Connor says: “Decisions are made with goodwill, but when business comes into play, everything changes.” The high price of the Barneys T-shirts reflects the fact that much band merchandise now exists firmly in the same rarefied space as high-fashion items.Collabs are the new black      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Balmain and West. Photograph: BalmainFashion labels have been collaborating with bands for years, but this year they are on an equal footing. Kanye West’s video for Wolves in collaboration with Balmain played as a high-end ad for the brand, while Rihanna has worked closely with Puma, Dior, Manolo Blahnik and Stance for her sliders, shades, boots and socks.The golden age of tour merch      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ivy Park by Beyoncé.Musicians such as Beyoncé, Kanye West, Selena Gomez and Drake have all ushered in what MTV has called “the golden age of tour merch”. Musicians have also created clothing lines, from West’s Yeezy, Beyoncé’s Ivy Park to Drake’s OVO, with plenty of crossover between the catwalk and the merch stand. As well as getting fashion designers involved (the clothes for Justin Bieber’s Purpose tour were overseen by Jerry Lorenzo from the Fear of God label), merch is getting more on trend: Gomez’s Revival tour stand featured sew-on patches, temporary tattoos and “athleisure” sports bras.The pop-up promo      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Odd Future Wolf Gang Kill Them All. Photograph: Music Pics/REX/ShutterstockIn 1994, Prince opened the first pop-up clothes and merchandise shop in Camden, selling merchandise and clothes. In 2012, rap collective Odd Future opened shops all over the world featuring clothes from their Spongebob meets Jeremy Scott/Wolf Gang collection. Now everyone – most recently Drake and Rihanna – has pop-up stores.Now, it has almost replaced the teaser track as part of a band’s promotional schedule.Nostalgic throwbacks      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rita Ora in Enfant Riches Déprimés. Photograph: InstagramJust as labels such as Enfant Riches Déprimés and Midnight Studios have taken inspiration from the fonts and colour schemes of punk and indie in recent years, there has been a trend for rappers to wear clothes featuring 90s bands. Kanye West has been seen in a Richie Edwards camo jacket, while Travi$ Scott has worn a T-shirt from thrash metal group Exodus. It’s done out of nostalgia – not only for a bygone musical era, but also for the looser cuts and tailoring of those days a look that aligns with the oversized look that was all over the catwalks in the past few seasons.