Simon Cowell, the spoon-faced prince of reality TV train wrecks, is back in America and not a moment too soon. We’re currently trying to suss out whether to elect a reality show host as the next leader of the free world, so why not dig up the original bad boy of crap television so that he might reclaim his throne in this moment of ultimate cultural triumph? The only snag in this scenario is that Cowell’s gone native on us, trading in his natural British cynicism for a healthy dose of aw-shucks American cheese.He chose America’s Got Talent, one of his “brilliant ideas” from the previous decade, to be his comeback vehicle. AGT, as it is colloquially known, is a treacly bowl of corn syrup disguised as entertainment. In lieu of an actual competition, the producers trot out a series of hard-luck cases, weirdos, precocious children, and wild-eyed eccentrics to warm the hearts of sleep-deprived Americans. This is the least edgy, least negative show on broadcast TV today, which has rendered the one thing people liked about Cowell totally, completely useless. He’s Superman after eating a large bowl of kryptonite. He cannot possibly be mean.Thanks to AGT, The X-Factor, American Idol, and all the global spinoffs of each of those franchises, Cowell is one of the richest men in Britain. He’s not Lord Sugar rich, but he’s certainly better off than, say, Rowan Atkinson or the combined entire cast of EastEnders. He probably owns more homes than I own pairs of socks, which would be quite a feat. The reality TV Mount Rushmore bears the faces of Real World creators Mary-Ellis Bunim and Jonathan Murray, Survivor producer Mark Burnett, The Bachelor’s Mike Fleiss, and Cowell and Simon Fuller. He doesn’t need this, does he? What possessed him to come back after exiting the stage before his first love, American Idol, finally curdled into pure tedium? Couldn’t he have hired Alec Baldwin or a CGI rodent like the little guy from Ratatouille to take Howard Stern’s place after he left AGT? Wasn’t the shame of the disastrous American run of X-Factor enough humble pie for one man to eat?I guess not.American reality TV is not in the business of overtly shaming people any more. Sure, much of the genre still focuses on lunatics metaphorically (or literally) baring their arses to a camera, but they’re either totally aware of what they’re up to or the producers have a modicum of sympathy for them. Shows like The Weakest Link and Idol were British imports that us Yanks found novel in the post-9/11 years. Trot out a few freaks, get a slick Hollywood type or a person with a posh accent to dress them down in front of millions of people, and print the money. Cowell was the best at it, because he appeared to take absolutely no pleasure in demolishing someone’s dreams. Rather, he looked like the whole affair was a crushing burden – as though he’d been roused from bed at 3am and shuttled to the theater against his will. At best, he was an audience surrogate – telling these sad, untalented, delusional contestants that they’d be better off going home to sell fallout shelters door-to-door than dare attempt to sing. At worst, he was an alien transported to our planet without warning and told to “sort it out”. You can see how that would be entertaining to a sadist, or a TV audience in 2002. Actually, what’s the difference?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Those judges in full: Howie Mandel, Mel B, Simon Cowell, Heidi Klum, Nick Cannon. Photograph: NBC/Getty ImagesI suppose the only reason to bring Cowell on to America’s Got Talent is to shake up a dull formula. He’s a true meanie that’ll make the elderly audience for this show spit out their mashed carrots all over the screen, but never once consider changing the channel because, boy, if one of these acts can make Simon crack a smile, they must be aces! Fellow obnoxious British blowhard Piers Morgan played this role when AGT launched, followed by the famously harsh Stern. Morgan is about as threatening as a Subaru full of hamsters and is now best known in America as the man responsible for the most popular tweet I’ve ever seen. Stern literally has better things to do. So, enter Cowell, a personality with years of bad will saved up and plenty of negative capital to expend.For those of us misanthropes hoping he’d lob a few verbal grenades for old time’s sake, there was much to be disappointed by in Cowell’s first episode on AGT. For starters, the show began with a nonsensical sequence where the returning personalities – rubbery maniac Howie Mandel, Heidi Klum, presenter Nick Cannon, and ex-Spice Girl Mel B – threw a fake party for Cowell’s arrival, complete with a cake adorned with his sneering visage. Heidi and Mel licked the face on the cake, turning all of my worst nightmares into high-definition reality. “There are no words to describe how I feel,” Howie said. I have some words to describe how I feel: rubbish, tired, ashamed. For most of the opening, the music was louder than the dialogue, which was a welcome reprieve.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The first victim, I mean, contestant, was a six-year-old child named Nathan. The poor kid was dressed like a recently sacked Facebook employee – untucked shirt, tie, khaki pants – and quickly launched into the most dreadful standup comedy I’ve seen since the last time I watched a Howie Mandel special. Of course, the judges melted in front of a prepubescent human being performing acts usually reserved for adults. I would have been more impressed if he set up a wireless router or balanced a checkbook, to be honest.Cowell couldn’t and shouldn’t make fun of a child. Children are guileless and innocent. They deserve to be free of adult negativity and smarm for as many years as possible. They are pure and good, while we are sour and tasteless. I can barely get away with the last paragraph, but I’m not on TV, so it’s easier. Cowell is on TV and definitely can’t make fun of Nathan because he is now a judge on the least offensive reality show since House Hunters. Instead of telling him to give up on his dreams like the old Simon would, he told the kid he was going places. Probably therapy when he’s 30, but that’s a place, isn’t it? “Are you married?” Simon asked. Hilarious. He’s six! How repulsive. “I like you. You’re a real character. I think America’s gonna fall in love with you.” Yeah, whatever. You say that to all the children, don’t you?   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The only insults Cowell could muster were toward his fellow judges. Early in the show, he got in a real zinger on Mel B’s northern English accent. Not exactly his best work, but I have to give him points just for trying to be mean to someone within the saccharine format he invented. He asks a man with a dancing dog, “Did you have to teach Carrie, or did she just start dancing on her own one day?” What kind of dig is that? It’s like Simon Cowell turned into a contestant on Hollywood Squares overnight. Shockingly, he sent the man with the dancing dog through to the next round, but Heidi Klum voted no. I could have sworn the quirky German judge would lose her mind over a dancing dog (complete with an NBC-sanctioned hashtag #DancingDog for those playing along at home). The dog can dance, Heidi! Simon couldn’t even take the piss out of a group dressed like the Spice Girls cleverly named the Spice Gurlz that didn’t bother to sing along to their chosen track. Yet again, he had to toss his barbs toward poor Mel B, who has certainly suffered enough. “In my opinion, that was better than original,” he said. Oh, bravo, Simon. Bravo.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Just to remind the audience at home how mean Simon can be before the tearjerking grand finale, we were treated to a montage of the man himself carving into a series of unsuspecting contestants who thought they had wandered on to the America’s Got Talent stage and not an abattoir. He straight up tells someone that they “shouldn’t be singing”. Meanwhile, a trembling 13-year-old girl named Laura paces backstage while being told that just performing on TV is an honor, like they all know she’s hopeless in front of King Kong Cowell. It’s almost as though they were setting us up for some Susan Boyle-esque swerve moment.As one would expect, Laura was a virtuoso opera singer. As she belted out her song, the show cut to Simon, his eyes closed in amazement. Mel B, the only judge I can stand for some reason (probably my love of the northern accent and the song Wannabe) hits her gold buzzer, which sent Laura directly to the live shows later in the season. “I have never heard anything like that in all the years I’ve been doing this show,” Simon said. He’s only technically been doing the show for an episode, unless he’s been watching every episode of America’s Got Talent as a part of his producer duties for the last 10 years. If so, good on him. I can’t even believe I watched one episode.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest This new, cuddly Simon Cowell definitely fits better in the modern reality TV landscape – dominated by the drunk sociopaths of Real World/The Challenge/Are You the One?, the soap opera dramatics of Bravo’s various series, the toothless banter of The Voice, and the pleasant, knowing irony and old-fashioned romance of the unkillable Bachelor franchise. Being mean is no longer trendy in American TV entertainment. Nastiness has migrated from gameshows and talent contests to cable news, aggregator blogs and Twitter. It’s a pity Cowell’s gone soft. He’d have been a great presidential debate moderator. “This is the worst, most idiotic thing I’ve ever heard. You’ll never make it and I suggest you go back to New Jersey or wherever you came from. I have to vote no,” he’d say to Donald Trump. Wouldn’t we be better off?