What is a literary feminist hero, exactly? To me, it’s a girl who gets to be anything she wants. A girl who isn’t merely “strong” or “brave” or any of the epithets female leads often have attached to them. A feminist hero is a well-rounded character, with real assets and real flaws, whose story does not revolve around a man and his wishes. She makes her own choices, good or bad.I know many definitions of the feminist hero holds that she should be a good role model for girls. But this is a trap so many public women, real or fictional, fall into – our behaviour is scrutinised in minute detail, and we must be held to a higher standard because we are “role models” to girls. This very seldom applies to the literary hero. He can be weak, despicable, dangerous, untrustworthy or cruel – and nobody bemoans the fact that he makes for a poor role model.I grew up reading about girls. Strong girls, brave girls, scared girls, feisty girls. And mostly these girls were adventuring in fantasy worlds. Only as an adult did I realise that such girls, girls like Maresi, are not that common in fantasy literature. But luckily the feminist hero has always had a strong presence in children’s and YA literature. Here are some of my personal favourites, from the books of my childhood as well as from modern literature:1. Sophie Hatter in Howl’s Moving Castle by Diana Wynne JonesTop 10 feminist icons in children's and teen books Sophie’s story of growth is an unusual one. At the beginning of the book she is a timid girl, resigned to her fate as a shopkeeper. As the eldest of three sisters, she believes it’s her destiny to leave the adventuring to her younger, prettier sisters. But after being turned into an old woman by a witch, she slowly stops caring so much about what other people think and begins to stand up for herself. The book is a wonderful parable about what age can do to a woman’s confidence.2. Lyra Belacqua in the His Dark Materials trilogy by Philip PullmanLyra is an interesting hero, as she is a severely unlikeable character at first. She is impulsive, not that particular about personal hygiene, and a very skilled liar. Her defining traits are wilfulness and obstinacy. She never does anything just to please someone else, which in many ways makes her the perfect quest heroine. It’s really her dæmon, Pantalaimon, the physical representation of her soul, who is the key to the reader’s heart. He shows the other sides of Lyra’s personality that are not immediately apparent, such as loyalty and kindness.3. The girls in The Circle trilogy by Sara Bergmark Elfgren and Mats StrandbergThe six teen heros of the trilogy, tasked with saving the world from the upcoming apocalypse, are in turns horrible and kind to each other. They are strong and weak, mean and in love – in brief, real human beings. They also break the fantasy mould of the archetypical lone heroine surrounded by men.4. Ronia in Ronia, the Robber’s Daughter by Astrid LindgrenRonia’s father is the chief of a band of robbers. When he finds out that she has befriended the son of a rival robber lord he demands that she give him up. Instead of bending to her father’s will, Ronia moves out into the forest wither her friend Birk. She is a capable girl who can take care of herself and has her own strong sense of what’s right and wrong. In the end, she brings about a whole change in lifestyle for the robbers.Sandi Toksvig's top 10 heroines from history 5. September in The Girl Who Navigated Fairyland in a Ship of her own Making by Catherynne M ValenteSeptember, a 12-year-old girl who gets whisked off to Fairyland and ends up having to save it, is a brave girl with a lot of agency. Very little is thrown at her that she can’t handle, and very little occurs because it’s “meant to be” – September is the one who makes it happen. 6. Tenar in the Earthsea series by Ursula K. Le GuinTenar’s journey is a fascinating one. Trained from girlhood to be a priestess of a cruel human-sacrificing cult, she saves the erstwhile hero of the series, the mage Ged, as he enters the tombs of her gods. Later he saves her from her slavelike life as priestess. Tenar turns down the opportunity to learn magic and settles down to marry – but not Ged – and have children.However, and this is where it gets really interesting, her story doesn’t end there. In the novel Tehanu, Tenar is an old woman and the protagonist of the story who, once again, ends up saving the great mage Ged. How often do we get to see grandmothers be heroines in fantasy literature?7. Morwenna ‘Mori’ Phelps in Among Others by Jo WaltonMori is consumed by love of literature, specifically fantasy and science fiction. After the death of her twin sister and the mental breakdown of her mother she is sent to an all-girls boarding school. There she is extremely lonely, subjected to bullying and perhaps mentally unstable – but she does not look for anyone else to rescue her. She deals with all her problems completely on her own and is the most wonderful narrator I have encountered in a long time.Top 10 tips for girl geeks 8. Princess Eilonwy in the Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd AlexanderEilonwy starts off as a typical damsel in distress. But even though she suffers from the same predicament as many (fantasy) heros – she’s almost entirely surrounded by men – she is far from helpless or meek. Eilonwy is strong-willed, has a sharp tongue and is not afraid to speak her mind, often using very odd metaphors. She also ends up doing her fair share of rescuing.9. Little My in the Moomin books by Tove Jansson      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Little My never lets her diminutive size be anything but an asset. She is aggressive, strong-willed and only has two sets of emotions: anger and happiness. ‘You have to be angry sometimes. Every little creep has a right to be angry.’ She can sometimes tease others but is never really mean. Nothing scares Little My and she is always up for an adventure. We could all do with trying to be a little bit more like her.10. Alanna in The Song of the Lioness by Tamora PierceThis is a series I wish I had discovered as a child. I truly would have loved to read about Alanna, the high-born noble girl who wants to become a knight. She hides her gender and takes her twin brother’s place in the royal palace, learning to fence and fight. In many ways Alanna gets the best of two worlds: she earns her place and respect as a man, but also has a special bond with the Goddess as her feminine self.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Maresi by Maria Turtschaninoff, is published on 14 January by Pushkin Children’s Books. Read a review by site member Lucyal99 here.