October 2007. A swimming pool inside the Rwandan presidential palace. Tony Blair is lying on a sun lounger soaked with the blood of hundreds of thousands of murdered Hutus. Blair pulls up his Speedos to expose his butt-cheeks to the burning African sun. “I love it when you do that,” murmurs Cherie, sipping a dry martini while a slave fans her. President Kagame leans towards Blair. “I want to meet the most important person in the world,” he says. Blair pulls off his Ray-Bans and looks the president straight in the eye. “You’re talking to him,” he replies. “Now give me several hundred million dollars in cash that I can channel back into my foundation so that no one ever finds out how rich and venal I really am.”That’s exactly how it happened. I know that, because I was there recording the entire meeting from behind a palm tree. There have been 36 other biographies about the despicable Blair but none have ever had such access either to the cuttings library or to people with grudges against him. This then is the first true story of the Antichrist.How the country cheered when Tony Blair came to power in 1997. I was one of them. Little did we know how quickly our trust in him would be abused by the most deceitful man to have ever walked the corridors of cliches. “It was immediately obvious he was useless and deceitful,” says a man with a long-time grudge against Blair, “because he didn’t appoint me to his cabinet.” “It was immediately obvious he was useless and deceitful,” says another person with a grudge against him, “because he moved me down the civil service pecking order.”Take education and health, often hailed as two of the great successes of Blair’s government. Look behind the smokescreens of brand new schools and hospitals and you soon find a depressing world of failure, neglect and corruption. “Look behind the smokescreens of brand new schools,” a woman with a grudge against him tells me in strictest confidence, “and what you see is a depressing world of failure, neglect and corruption.” “It was almost,” says a person with a grudge against him, “as if he actively wanted children from poor backgrounds to fail.” “I blame Cherie,” says another person with a grudge against him. “It was her greed to acquire a multi-million pound property empire that drove the NHS to breaking point.”“Can I just put in one good word for Tony,” says a person without a grudge against Blair. “He did well to broker the Good Friday peace agreement in Northern Ireland. “No you can’t,” says Tom. “I’m afraid space is very limited in my 650-page book so I am going to have to restrict my sources to people who have an axe to grind. Besides, the Good Friday agreement wan’t all it was cracked up to be.2003. The turning point. If Blair had merely been a bit useless and only marginally corrupt before the Iraq war, he became a tyrant after it. The Oval Office. George Bush is in his cowboy outfit. “Can I wear your chaps?” asks Blair. “Only if you guarantee to invade Iraq and pretend Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction.” “That’s a deal,” says Tony. “I’ll get Alastair on to it right now.”“It was the most monstrous act a British prime minister has ever committed against his own people,” says a former cabinet minister with a grudge against him. “I bitterly regret ever having believed a word he said. I’m so tortured with guilt and remorse, I haven’t slept a wink in the last 13 years.”2007. Blair is pacing Downing Street in the Nike tracksuit presented to him by President Gaddafi. The phone rings. It’s Cherie calling from Saudi Arabia where she has just bought a $50,000 ring after signing a billion-pound arms deal. “We’ve got enough in the bank. You can retire now.” “Blair was hoping to go in a blaze of glory,” says Gordon Brown. “But the truth is we were all sick to death of him.” “Gordon was just as bad as Tony,” says a former cabinet minister with grudges against Blair and Brown.2012. The Labour party is in meltdown and it’s all Blair’s fault. Millions of illegal immigrants are roaming round Britain and it’s all Blair’s fault. And where’s Blair? Hanging around in a hot tub with Wendi Deng, while raking in millions of dollars through dodgy deals with third world despots. “Everything that is wrong with the entire world is down to Blair,” says Rupert Murdoch, a man who doesn’t hold a grudge against Tony now he is happily married to Jerry.Digested read, digested: The Tragedy of Bower.