In the late 1930s and early 40s, five remarkably gifted ballerinas began their professional careers in the US. All were of Native American descent and were to play an important role in the establishment of classical ballet in America. The youngest of them was Yvonne Chouteau, who has died aged 86.Tall for a dancer, blonde and extremely slender, Chouteau began her professional career with Sergei Denham’s Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1941, aged only 14, and according to the dancer Frederic Franklin, “looking even younger”. But, he added, “she was very talented and had an ethereal quality that was unique.”Of mixed French and Shawnee Cherokee descent, Chouteau was born in Texas, the only child of Corbett Chouteau, who worked for an oil company, and his wife, Lucy (nee Taylor), a schoolteacher. Her father was a direct descendent of Jean Pierre Chouteau, who founded the first white settlement in what is now Oklahoma. Yvonne had her first dance lesson at the age of two. Later, accompanied by her mother, she travelled to New York to study, first at the Vilzak Schollar school and then, after winning a scholarship, the School of American Ballet, also in New York, where she was spotted by the Russian-born ballerina Alexandra Danilova.Danilova, then the leading dancer of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, recommended Chouteau to Denham, and also provided her with a chaperone in the form of her assistant. Despite her age, Chouteau was subject to the same discipline and pressures as every other member of the corps de ballet, though she recalled that “as long as I was on stage I was happy”.She was even happier when in only her first season she was given several roles to understudy. She made her official debut as a soloist on her 16th birthday in the testing Prayer solo in Coppelia, and the critic Edwin Denby described her performance as “lovely in every way”. In 1949 she was made a leading soloist and in 1950 she was named ballerina. By this time she had already been inducted into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame, at 18 the youngest person ever to be given such an honour.Her repertoire included major roles in Raymonda, Paquita, The Nutcracker and Swan Lake, as well as in many of the works made for the company. After having been singled out early in her career by the choreographer and dancer Léonide Massine, then at the height of his fame, she considered herself to be a “Massine dancer” and danced to considerable acclaim in many of his works. In a period when the company was laid off, she also worked with the British choreographer Antony Tudor, who created a piece, Little Improvisations, for her.Chouteau said of herself: “I was not a bravura-style technician who could whip off 32 fouettés without blinking an eye, or a classical ballerina in the purest sense. I preferred roles I could put my heart and soul into, roles that were technically challenging but demanded more than executing steps. Every dancer has an individual forte, and mine was being able to create an illusion and express a mood on stage.”The 1954-55 season was particularly difficult for the company. Finances were tight, and a 30-week tour crossing the US was made by bus rather than train in order to save money. This proved extremely hard on the dancers’ bodies, and additionally there were tensions among the ballerinas caused by Denham’s insistence on pushing forward one young dancer, Nina Novak. Chouteau was already considering her future when she fell in love with a fellow dancer, Miguel Terekhov. They married in 1956, Chouteau’s earlier brief marriage to the musician Claude Monteux having been annulled.In 1957 the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo gave a season at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. By this time Chouteau was already six months pregnant with her first child, but “since I had no problems and showed very little, I went ahead and danced”. Among the roles she performed was the Prayer solo in which she had made her soloist debut. These would be her last appearances with Denham’s company.Following a period dancing in Miguel’s home city of Montevideo in Uruguay, and the birth of a second daughter, the couple returned to Oklahoma, where they set up the school of dance at the University of Oklahoma in the early 60s. They later opened a private dance studio in Oklahoma City and also founded the Oklahoma City Civic Ballet, the precurser of today’s Oklahoma City Ballet.Miguel died in 2012. Chouteau is survived by her daughters, Elizabeth and Christina, and by two grandsons.• Myra Yvonne Chouteau, ballerina, born 7 March 1929; died 24 January 2016