As temperatures dipped and high winds whistled down Manhattan’s Fifth Avenue on Tuesday hundreds waited in line for the chance to snap up this season’s must-have tech toy – Snapchat Spectacles – and the possibility to make some extra money.This was the second day that tech company Snap Inc’s Spectacles pop-up store had opened on 59th street and enthusiasm for the video-capturing sunglasses hadn’t waned. Its doors were closed until 4.00pm but by 12.30pm, the line to purchase had already stretched around the corner to Fifth Avenue and up to 60th street. There were about 150 people waiting at that time, still with three and a half hours to go.Snap Inc: it’s Snapchat, but now with video-recording 'Spectacles' Those waiting stood in jackets and hats, scarves and layered sweaters. Some were huddled together and others – the professionals – sat in plastic tents to keep out the wind. One woman, Kelsey, was dressed in a dinosaur costume.Kelsey, who had come with her friend Krystal – clad in a neon green snowsuit for warmth – arrived on the scene at 10.30am. The pair had tried to come on Monday to get their hands on the technology, but were too late. “We decided to shower in the morning which wasn’t the right move because by the time we got here there was a line,” Krystal joked.On Tuesday, the pair arrived with snacks, blankets and enthusiasm. “We’re not calling it waiting on line, we’re calling it tailgating,” Krystal said. “We just felt like the word tailgating makes it seem like more of an event and less waiting on line for this product.”A woman standing in line behind them said she thought Spectacles would make it much easier to take videos of cats.The coveted device consists of a pair of sunglasses with a camera inside. They shoot video which directly links to the Snapchat app. Each pair of glasses costs $129.99 and customers can purchase two Spectacles each.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Braven Stone, an economics student at Hunter College, was one of the first people in line on Tuesday morning. He didn’t know what time the store would open, but didn’t want to take a chance so he arrived at 4am. “I’m kind of in the new tech fandom, so I’m down for anything,” Stone said.But Stone said he hoped to sell the Spectacles, rather than keep them for himself. People walking by had stopped to ask him if he would sell them to him, Stone said. He’s hoping to get $700 for them. On eBay, Spectacles are listed at a few hundred dollars to as much as $1,000 – though its unclear if people are actually buying them for such exorbitant amounts. Others in line were also hoping to turn a profit through resale.Joe Miller and Joy Aldrich, who had recently moved to New York from Colorado, had purchased two pairs of Spectacles each on Monday and were waiting in line again on Tuesday to buy two more to sell.Snap Inc, the company that makes Snapchat and Spectacles, has kept the locations of its Spectacles pop-up stores secret. Before New York, the Snapbot – a vending machine of Spectacles – had recently appeared in the Grand Canyon and at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California, among other locations, according to the New York Times. Miller said he had been watching the countdown clock online for about two weeks awaiting the next location. If the store hadn’t been in New York, he had considered traveling to it. “Honestly to think you’re making a thousand bucks to go, what’s a $200 train ticket?” Miller said. Between jobs, the money would be helpful with rent and presents for the holidays, he said.Robert Samuel, the owner of Same Ole Line Dudes, was sitting in a clear plastic tent with his computer on Tuesday morning holding a spot in line for a paying customer. He and his company got on line at 7.30am to purchase Spectacles for 13 people .      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robert Samuel, a professional line sitter, waits to buy Snapchat Spectacles for his customers. Photograph: Nicole Puglise for the GuardianSamuel said business had been booming since the Spectacles store opened up, with people from as far as Toronto and Florida hiring him and his employees to procure the device for them.Snapchat's potential $25bn flotation may sink company's appeal “People want it when they want it and they don’t want to wait for it to hit Pensacola, Florida, if it ever will,” he said with a laugh.At around 3.50pm, about 50 people were let into the store to queue up for the Snapbot vending machine. Over the next hour, they slowly trickled out, Spectacles in hand. Those still waiting called out: “Congratulations”. Most people bought two, and black seemed to be the most popular color.Kyuwon Choi, a quantitative researcher for a hedge fund, was one of the first people to make the purchase. “I’m feeling so good,” he said after walking out. “I had been waiting for 12 hours and now I’ve finally got them.” He plans to keep one for himself, and might sell the other.Others stood outside with their purchases, making phone calls or haggling with passersby.