Below is this week’s playlist – the theme and tunes picked by a reader from the comments after last week’s callout. Thanks for your suggestions.  about the format of the weekly readers recommend series at the end of the piece.The monster advances towards the worried curator: “A-list me – playlist me,” it growls. We are quickly losing the ability to spot monsters and the monstrous acts they bring – be they snake oil charlatans, unhinged demagogues or creatures that creep into our brains and invade our dreams. Some are subtle, but disturb us with their terror, infesting our imagination, some are more obvious: big, brash, hairy beasts. It’s the same for a lot of the songs on offer below.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The playlist on YouTubeSo what’s that are coming over the hill? Yes, it’s the Automatic’s Monster, which starts us off. Some monsters are giants, towering over us to make us feel vulnerable and weak; others are short and noisy – like Japanther’s The Gravy, which is next.   Guardian contributor Pairubu 06 October 2016 8:03pmJapanther - The gravy Short, noisy and featuring many, many monsters.Now for one that creeps up on you, an avant garde folk-blues-swamp-rock-style creature from David Thomas and the Wooden Birds, which may well be the scariest Monster That Walks the Winter Lake.Bad brains, bad thoughts and other bad deeds happen as the rioting, looting rowdies run from the slimy green lizard raging war. The scream and the sounds that come out are as if Godzilla had smashed Fishbone’s faces into a keyboard – “V.T.T.L.O.T.F.D.G.F”. Apparently the initials actually stand for “Voyage to the Land of the Freeze-Dried Godzilla Farts” ...“Help! Help! – I need my mummy!” I scream while watching Josh Ritter’s video for The Curse, and fearfully poke my head over the back of the sofa. To my shock (and enjoyable horror) an entire regiment of evil monsters are approaching – under the command of EnglishOutlaw in the comments … Them – yes, Misfits’s them! They just keep on coming – like a shower of marauding nominations.   EnglishOutlaw 07 October 2016 4:35pmI hope saneshane will forgive me if I keep tapping the rich vein of Misfit's monster material. There's just so much in the back-catalogue and I would love to see them get into the Marconium. I hope I'm not boring you too much.Them is a song about the mutant spawn of a nuclear accident (or perhaps war), "Exo-skeleton armoured" "Creepy-crawling giant bugs". With the enduring message of "Beware of them".https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KNs3fvyiXxUBe’lakor’s Venator follows, lulling me into a false sense of security with calm guitar licks to begin, but the death metal ups the pace and it ends up petrifying. With Tokoloshe Man, John Kongos torments and I try to find solace in a big red Dragon Head of Throwing Muses. By now there are Monsters everywhere, Freschard’s next. Quickly we’re into the Raveonettes’ Bowels Of the Beast before a Balrog Boogie from Diablo Swing Orchestra follows intensely. The primal fear and heightened emotion clasps me tight – escaping those monsters’ clutches I run to the kitchen for comfort, and, drumming along with the cooking implements in time with a racing heart, this monstrous musical soundtrack ends with some of Bobby “Boris” Pickett’s Monster Mash.The list in full1. The Automatic: Monster2. Japanther: The Gravy3. David Thomas and the Wooden Birds: Monster Walks The Winter Lake4. Fishbone: V.T.T.L.O.T.F.D.G.F. 5. Josh Ritter: The Curse6. The Misfits: Them7. Be’lakor: Venator8. John Kongos: Tokoloshe Man9. Throwing Muses: Dragonhead10. Freschard: Monsters11. The Raveonettes: Bowels of the Beast 12. Diablo Swing Orchestra: Balrog Boogie13. Bobby “Boris” Pickett: Monster MashNote: not all songs appear on the Spotify playlist as some are unavailable on the service.New themeThe theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on 12 October. You have until 11pm on 16 October to submit nominations.Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR:If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions and write a blog about it, please email matthew.holmes@theguardian.com.There is a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other strange words used by RR regulars.Many RR regulars also congregate at the ’Spill blog.