New Northern Ireland peace process movie The Journey pushes Toby Stephens into the crowded pantheon of actors who have pretended to be Tony Blair; a dominant public figure whose rise, fall and endlessly disputed motives make him attractive to performers who want to show they can both mimic a familiar persona and push past it to reveal the real man. In his parallel life on screen, Blair has been at best a complex antihero and, more often, a tragicomic villain in vengeful what-if fantasies. If the former PM ever dreamed of being a shining idol in film or TV, he has been repeatedly disappointed …Michael Sheen (The Deal, 2003/The Queen, 2006/The Special Relationship, 2010)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Michael Sheen and Dennis Quaid as Blair and Bill Clinton in The Special Relationship. Photograph: Moviestore/Rex/ShutterstockThe impersonation that has made other screen Blairs resort to caricature. Sheen’s first go at Blair, as The Deal’s red-lipped wunderkind of the 80s and early 90s, introduces a smiling assassin who cares more about a successful Tony than a principled Labour party. The post-Diana power struggle in The Queen sees Blair ossify into statesmanship, even as he nimbly schools Elizabeth II on the new media age; The Special Relationship enjoys Blair’s bromance with Bill Clinton, but hints that it gave him a fatal thirst for global influence. Sheen embodies the sceptics’ view, nailing Tony’s ingratiating mannerisms and telling stories about power that are instructive, even if some might quibble about how events are presented. Tony Blair (The Simpsons, 2003)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Blair, JK Rowling, Evan Marriott and Sir Ian McKellen help Homer out of a spot of bother. Photograph: Fox BroadcastingBlair took a break from the aftermath of invading Iraq to accept a fun cameo in America’s best comedy. In a UK where umbrella-toting nannies flock in the sky like birds, Blair greets the Simpsons at the airport: the halting, bland delivery of a thousand dinner-party impressions was by now so irresistible that Blair himself sounds he’s doing “the Blair voice”. Either that or he was just a bit distracted.The Journey review – Northern Ireland history lesson recast as bromance James Larkin (The Government Inspector, 2005)Peter Kosminsky’s film re-filleted the evidence the Hutton inquiry had ruled on a year earlier, angrily contesting the conclusion that Blair’s government bore no responsibility for the death of former weapons inspector Dr David Kelly. Larkin’s plausible enough Blair plays second fiddle to Alastair Campbell, but has one memorable moment that illustrates the danger of combining painstaking research with dramatically convenient speculation: during a grave telephone conversation, Tony is imagined to be playfully twanging blues riffs on his guitar. Robert Lindsay (The Trial of Tony Blair, 2007)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Robert Lindsay in The Trial of Tony Blair. Photograph: Channel 4 Picture PublicityBy far the most on-the-nose example of a screen Blair fulfilling the wishes of those who want Tony banged up for war crimes, this TV movie has him pegged as a pompous berk whose complacency is never quite punctured by the visions he keeps witnessing of dead Iraqis. Lindsay, who earlier played Blair in 2005’s “whoops, there go David Blunkett’s trousers” TV romp A Very Social Secretary, is the best thing about this. An awkward mix of righteous fury and light comedy, he’s very funny in the scenes where Blair is a smooth sitcom schemer, then slyly makes it clear that any real human guilt his Blair feels is secondary to his annoyance at the tarnishing of his legacy.Damian Lewis (Confessions of a Diary Secretary, 2007)Very much at the Spitting Image caricature end of the fake Blair spectrum. A demeaning farce about John Prescott’s extra-marital affair features Lewis doing a full-on prattling vicar act, like someone frantically waving a cardboard cutout on a stick. Pierce Brosnan (The Ghost Writer, 2010)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pierce Brosnan in The Ghost Writer. Photograph: Snap Stills/Rex/ShutterstockAgain a fiction writer administers the justice the real Tony Blair avoided, albeit not to him directly. In a barely disguised, flimsy fantasy scripted by disillusioned New Labour acolyte Robert Harris, vain former PM Adam Lang is threatened with a trip to the Hague. The main antagonist is ultimately Olivia Williams’ sharp, brittle, Cherie-ish wife; Brosnan, whose voice goes a bit Churchillian when roused, is an expendable mannequin with no real passion beyond serving the United States. There’s not much behind the confident facade.Stephen Mangan (The Comic Strip Presents … the Hunt for Tony Blair, 2011/Red Top, 2016)      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Comic Strip Presents … Red Top. Photograph: GoldComic relief from the Comic Strip, first in a film noir pastiche, where Blair runs from the law while maintaining that the murders he’s committed were all the right thing to do at the time, then in a Boogie Nights sendup about phone hacking. Mangan extracts the Blair characteristic most suited to outright comedy: how he sees himself is not how others see him.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Timothy Spall on McGuinness and Paisley’s friendship: ‘It was almost preposterous’Toby Stephens (The Journey, 2017)In a contrivance of a film that imagines Ian Paisley and Martin McGuinness taking a literal journey together in a car rigged with MI5 cameras, Stephens is Blair as a managerial nonentity. Charged with brokering the meeting, his Tony simpers toothily, like a harassed home counties hubby trying to reconcile crabby in-laws at a family gathering when he’d rather be golfing. Not very illuminating – although, despite the 2006 setting, Blair’s reduction to an irrelevant observer, impotently tracking events on a screen, has some piquancy in 2017.