I really love your Virals novels and am particularly interested in the supernatural element of the stories, was it hard to think of ways to keep the supernatural element of the story going?The hardest part of the supernatural element was keeping that angle in line with actual scientific principles. In the Virals series — which I co-write with my son, Brendan Reichs — we use science in our fiction more so than write “science fiction.” That’s how we like to think about our work.What made you decide to have a supernatural element in the books at all? Brendan actually came up with the idea to add a supernatural element, or a piece of “grounded fantasy,” as my editor likes to call it. When we were in the Turks and Caicos my son adopted a dog for me (thanks), but Turk fell sick almost immediately with parvovirus. We’d never heard of it, but quickly learned how deadly an illness it can be for a puppy. Thankfully, Turk pulled through. We’d frantically learned everything we could about the virus when he was battling the disease, and the idea sprang from there. What if humans could contract a weaponized form of parvovirus? The rest is history. I read an interview you did in 2013 about discussing Virals for the TV screen, is that still under discussion?We’re in discussions right now, but still the early stages. We have a TV agent and a feature film agent, and can’t seem to decide what we want! Brendan would love to do a full-length film, but I’ve had a great experience with TV with Bones, and would like to see that happen again.Obviously your Temperance Brennan novels are quite grisly and upsetting in places, do you find it easier on an emotional level to write the Virals books?Not especially, because the Virals novels remain every bit as tense as my adult work, and really do work for readers of all ages. I tried very hard not to change how I create a story. I think most adult readers also enjoy Virals because it’s not an attempt to write down to a younger level. They are simply mystery novels with teenage protagonists. In the end, I think it worked out quite well.Deja Dead by Kathy Reichs - review What made you decide to relate the characters in your series’ rather than having them completely separate? When we envisioned Tory, we saw a combination of the traits from the Temperance Brennan of my novels and of the character from the TV show, Bones. Tory is the right age for the audience we hoped to reach. It’s been a lot of fun to imagine what Tempe would’ve been like as a headstrong 14-year-old. She’s a true prodigy, with all the intellectual firepower of her great-Aunt Tempe, but at heart she’s still a high schooler. I was surprised when you put Temperance Brennan into some of the Virals e-books as Virals is so supernatural and your Temperance Brennan books are not, I wouldn’t have thought you would have wanted to merge the two together for that reason! What made you decide to do it? And why put Temperance into Virals rather than the other way around? (would you ever do the other way?)Code by Kathy Reichs – review  “Supernatural” may not really be the best description, as the genetic mutation Tory and her friends undergo in the Virals books is firmly grounded in scientific principles regarding viruses, DNA, and mutation. It’s not really “magical” or anything like that, but rather a fantastical extension of science that happens every day, right now. We put Tempe in a few stories mainly as a wink to my readers, but also to show the difference in viewpoints that age provides. It’s fun to see how they are the same, and how they are different. And a careful reader of my Temperance Brennan books may have caught mention of Tory already!You’ve mentioned in previous interviews that one of the reasons you wrote Virals was because you thought that your Temperance Brennan novels were a bit too adult in content, how did you decide how much content it was necessary to exclude in order for it to be suitable for young adults?Robin Stevens's top 10 crime capers  A lot of my readers were approaching me and asking if my adult books were okay for their teenager readers, and I was a little uncomfortable with giving a blanket yes, because they do involve violent death. Many people watch Bones, and come to my book signings. I knew that kids were jumping right into the adult books, but some subjects – like dismemberment – might be a little strong for young readers. Virals novels are firmly grounded in forensics and are every bit as complicated mysteries, but some of the gore is removed. But they are still by no means for the faint of heart! You wrote Shift (one of the Virals e-books) from Shelton, Hi, Ben, Kit and Temperance’s perspective as well as Tory’s. What made you decide to do that in only one of the e-books and what was it like writing from all of those perspectives?We thought it would be neat to give the reader a glimpse inside the guys’ heads, and revisited this idea in Exposure, the fourth Virals novel. The boys are every bit as important to the stories as Tory, so a novella felt like the right place to give our readers a look inside their heads, too. It was delight writing those scenes for both of us.My inspiration: Katherine Woodfine on Nancy Drew Would you ever consider writing a book or series that wasn’t based on science and/or crime? Hard to say. I like to write what I know, but never say never.What were your favourite books when you were growing up? I was a Nancy Drew fanatic growing up. It’d surprise no one who knew me then that I’m a mystery writer today. I love unlocking a whodunit. Read a good teen book lately that you’d like to recommend to us?Matched, by Ally Condie. Smart, funny, and with a ton of heart. A dystopian romance and adventure rolled into one. I loved it.Is Trace Evidence the last addition to the Virals series or are there plans to write others? Tell us!It’s the last planned addition at present. This was always a project for my son and I to write together, and Brendan has a new solo young adult series, Nemesis, that with by published by Penguin in 2017. But it’s not out of the realm of possibility that we revisit the series some time in the future. We had a blast writing it.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Trace Evidence by Kathy Reichs and Brendan Reichs, a Virals collection of short stories, is out now, and available from the Guardian bookshop. 