Britain should be mighty proud of Charlotte Rampling and Michael Caine today. Not only are they fine actors and valued exports, but they have proven themselves exceptional gymnasts, flexible enough, even with the advancing years, to wedge their feet firmly into their own mouths.Oscars 2016: Charlotte Rampling says diversity row is 'racist to white people' You’ll have read by now that Rampling, 69, in response to the bubbling unrest over #AllWhiteOscars, touchily suggested to French radio that the dissent over the Academy’s non-diverse acting nominations is “racist to whites”. Beyond the fact that “reverse racism” is an absurd, fanciful concoction, any broader context – such as the fact that she is one of this year’s 20 white acting nominees – did not appear to factor into her thinking. To rub salt into the wound, she said: “Why classify people? These days everyone is more or less accepted.” It’s an admirable sentiment (bearing echoes of Blue Mink’s novelty 1970 hit “Melting Pot”), but sadly untethered to the real world. Try telling it to the scores of black, brown and Asian creatives routinely shut out of opportunities at levels of the film industry far less glitzy than those celebrated at the Oscars. Double Oscar-winner Michael Caine, 82, meanwhile, waxed paternalistic, informing Radio 4’s Today programme that black actors unhappy at not being recognised should simply “be patient”. Given that black actors have won just 14 trophies in the award show’s 88-year history, and that the last black actor to win an Oscar for a leading role was Forest Whitaker a decade ago, one wonders just how much time the Youth star thinks people have on their hands.Mind you, Caine has recent form when it comes to making curious statements on race. At a recent Hollywood Reporter roundtable discussion, he informed Will Smith that: “[W]hen I started, I was the ‘black’ actor. We didn’t have black people; we had working-class people.” (My late Jamaican grandparents, who moved to London in the 1940s when Caine was a teenager, would have begged to differ.)After a deep, rich sigh and a sad shake of the head (which was my personal reaction), what can one really draw from these asinine comments? Firstly, that one can’t – and shouldn’t – expect piercing intellectual clarity on matters of race and representation from elderly, establishment actors. Also, that such comments shouldn’t in any way cloud one’s opinion of the pair as professionals: that Rampling does stellar, sensitive work in Andrew Haigh’s 45 Years is beyond doubt.The comments – especially Rampling’s – do, however, hint at a deeper malaise. As Cameron Bailey, artistic director of the Toronto film festival, asked, “If Rampling was willing to say this in a formal interview, how many in the film industry think it privately?”    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mark Ruffalo discusses white privilege – videoIt’s a good and troubling question: perhaps the answer can be found in the fact that despite cyclical flare-ups about a lack of diversity down the years (Eddie Murphy was at it back in 1988), few substantive changes have been effected. Moreover, I have no doubt that swathes of people, quietly seething that this whole “diversity” business has got out of hand – that it’s political correctness gone mad, I tell you! – will feel emboldened that a high-profile figure has come out and echoed their thoughts.Ultimately though, whether Rampling likes it or not, (lack of) diversity is an issue that’s not going away, and it’s currently building up a real head of steam on both sides of the Atlantic, with figures such as Idris Elba, Viola Davis, Ava DuVernay and David Oyelowo leading the charge. They are pointing to the fact that genuine institutional change, not a papering over cracks, is required. 