It’s a mark of the careering ambitions of our so-called golden age of television that, should I tell you Amazon is attempting to salvage a tired film genre with a 10-episode series about an iconic Zelda, that genre could just as easily be video game adaptation as period biopic. Alas, it’s the latter, and though Z: The Beginning Of Everything would be a perfectly good title for a rip-roaring tale of puzzle-based valour, on balance it’s probably better suited to a glittering jazz-age portrait of Zelda Fitzgerald.Christina Ricci bids farewell to a decade of post-Speed Racer ignominy to play the title role, and her easy effervescence goes a long way to explaining what made the woman born Zelda Sayre so intoxicating to the luminaries of the lost generation, most notably her husband, F Scott Fitzgerald. Ricci plays Zelda as a fully-formed idol from the start, someone fiercely aware both of what she wishes to get out of life and what others imagine her to offer. This constant give and take was a defining characteristic of her life as she sought to be seen not just as Scott’s muse but as a creative force in her own right.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The show underlines this identity crisis by shuffling Zelda back and forth between subject and object. One moment the camera follows her at eye level as she forces her way through a crowd of would-be suitors, their identities obscured both by the framing and her total lack of interest. The next, she’s twirling in slow motion on the dancefloor – a music box ballerina granted meaning only by the adoring gaze of her future husband. Even the show’s title positions her as something between a protagonist and a love interest, combining her first initial with a phrase from Scott’s assessment of their relationship: “I love her and it is the beginning of everything.”It’s the closest thing to nuance in a series that’s otherwise in thrall to the cliches of its genre. The best contemporary portrayals of historical figures build upon what we already know of them, adding shading to a set of pre-existing caricatures. Here, the most memorable lines seek only to blandly reinforce the existing legend – as in the moment Zelda tells a potential suitor, “I don’t wait for anyone” – or pointlessly mine the tale for dramatic irony (“My name is F Scott Fitzgerald and I’m going to be famous some day!”). This may well be the golden age of television but Z: The Beginning Of Everything feels as if it’s been sitting in the vault for a while.Available from Friday on Amazon Video