Hit Scandinavian multimedia online youth drama Skam (Shame), which has gripped teens across the world, is to be remade for English-speaking audiences.The Norwegian drama, which has loosely been likened to Channel 4’s popular teen-targeted series Skins, has become a global digital hit, whose teenage fans have petitioned the broadcaster to add English subtitles for international fans.Shame: a Scandi TV sensation for the social media generation Simon Fuller, the man behind the Spice Girls and the international Idol TV franchise, such as American Idol, has struck a global deal with the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation, the show’s broadcaster, to remake Shame for English-speaking audiences. Fuller’s XIX Entertainment will produce a version of the show for the US and Canada, which is expected to be sold to other English-speaking markets such as the UK.“Shame is an important show,” said Fuller. “There is precious little content created primarily for a teen audience and Shame provides this with great honesty and integrity. The show packs a punch and is leading the way in exploring multiplatform storytelling.”Shame, which launched in Norway in 2015 and is now on its third season, has been a massive hit. It focuses on a group of 16-year-olds and has had audiences in its home country as high as 1.3 million of a total population of 5 million.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Skam has used social media in real time to draw in its young audience. Photograph: NRKThe show’s success has been attributed to the use of compelling real-time storylines that take an honest look at issues such as addiction and coming to grips with life as a gay teen. It uses unknown actors, many of whom still have day jobs such as telemarketing, and it has been innovative in its embrace of social media to promote the series.Clips of the show are posted in real time online, so if there is an event after school it is posted the same time it would be in real life, which makes the characters and plots feel real. Clips posted throughout the week are assembled into one episode, which can be from 17 minutes to 50 minutes long, which is then aired on TV.Viewers and fans can interact with the characters via their profiles on Facebook and Instagram at any time, while text messages between the characters are also posted online to heighten viewer interest and anticipation.“It has become an enormous hit in Norway and has the potential to become an influential show in America, where there is simply nothing like it,” said Fuller. “Scandinavia and Norway in particular is at the forefront of innovation and creativity in the shaping of the world’s digital and creative industries right now.”Haakon Moslet, NRK’s head of youth, said the remake of the series has the potential to “change the rules in the American TV market”. “We are honoured that [Fuller] wants to take ‘our baby’ to the next international level,” he said.Moslet said the American Shame would be a completely separate production from the Norwegian version, with his production team focused on creating season four of Skam in its home market.“We feel certain that Shame’s integrity will be respected, and that the unique authenticity that is at the heart of our show will capture a very large audience,” said Ole Hedemann, head of formats at NRK. “Shame’s secret, the accurate portrayal of high school kids, gives the audience something to think about – and at the same time something to love.”