Road safety charities have condemned mock car crashes staged as a publicity stunt for Jeremy Clarkson’s new motoring show as “crass, insensitive and desperate”.The fake collisions appeared in London, Berlin and Los Angeles to promote the former Top Gear presenter’s return to TV alongside sidekicks Richard Hammond and James May. The Grand Tour will launch on Amazon Prime Video this week.In King’s Cross, central London, a white Toyota Prius – a hybrid vehicle frequently mocked by Clarkson – appeared to have been crashed into a postbox, crumpling its bonnet.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A car sticks out from the pavement in Berlin. Photograph: Clemens Bilan/Getty Images for Amazon Prime VideoSimilarly wrecked cars also appeared in Berlin’s Hackescher Markt and on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, where a blue Prius with the number plate CLARK50N had been made to look as if it had fallen from the sky. Gary Rae, the campaigns director for the road safety charity Brake, said: “This is a crass, insensitive and desperate stunt. Though I’m not surprised, as this team has a track record of glorifying speed, and ignoring the devastating consequences of dangerous driving. Programmes like Top Gear and its new rival, Grand Tour, need to recognise that car worship is dated and misplaced.” Edmund King, the president of the AA, said: “The picture clearly illustrates that crashing cars can be incredibly dangerous. However, looking on the brighter side we note that the 2016 Toyota Prius scores the top-rated five stars in EuroNCAP crash tests. We wonder whether The Grand Tour will rate five stars with the viewers.”Clarkson, the presenter and Sunday Times columnist, was dropped by the BBC in March last year after he punched and verbally abused a junior Top Gear producer. Hammond and May opted to leave the programme with him.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jeremy Clarkson during filming of The Grand Tour. Photograph: Roderick Fountain/Amazon Prime Video/PAClarkson once said the Prius was a “God-awful” car bought by “morons who think they’re saving the planet”.“This is one of my least favourite cars in the world because as far as I can see it appeals on no levels at all,” he said in one Top Gear episode. “It certainly isn’t pretty. Honestly I’d rather look at a baboon. In fact, some to think of it, I’d rather look at the back of a baboon … and in a desperate bid to keep the weight down, they seem to have made it out of tracing paper.” Toyota, meanwhile, was not aggravated by the stunt. A spokesperson said they were “very much looking forward to the series”.