In the second episode of The Girlfriend Experience, a drama on Starz, to be screened from 10 April, which premiered this week at the Sundance film festival, law student turned sex worker Christine moves out of the crappy digs she was sharing with an ex-boyfriend and into a snazzy new two-bedroom that is partially being paid for by her madam. Her new apartment is exactly like the show: sleek, modern, expensive – and ultimately pretty empty. Based on the 2009 Stephen Soderbergh movie which starred former porn star Sasha Grey, the series was written by Amy Seimetz and Lodge Kerrigan (who also direct the first two episodes) and concerns Christine’s descent into prostitution to pay her tuition fees, but also for other murky personal reasons that are never explored as well as they should be. It’s the tale as old as the hills (and the subject of some dubious male fantasies): the hooker with a heart of gold who is engaged in sex work by choice in order to secure herself a better future. Christine is led down this path by her friend Avery (Kate Lyn Shell), a classmate and high-class escort who slowly draws her willingly toward sex work. Christine also has an internship at a law firm where her hard-edged boss, David (Paul Sparks), is having a much more difficult time pleasing his clients than Christine has satisfying hers. There are some clunky parallels between the prostitute’s and lawyer’s duties sprinkled throughout the episodes.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The biggest problem, however, is the moralising which pervades the four episodes shown at Sundance. The score often consists only of a low-pitched rumble, the sort of sound effect employed in the Paranormal Activity films when something terrible is about to happen. The first time Christine rides an elevator with a john, her face is lit from above with a blue light, for a ghastly death’s head effect. It’s hardly subtle.Just as in Soderbergh’s Magic Mike, where stripping has to be avoided at all costs if one wants to maintain one’s integrity, Christine’s choice to become an escort is obviously doomed from the beginning – mostly for reasons inherent in the trade rather than what’s going on with the character. The problem with Christine is that she’s a bit of a cypher. She is closed off, cold and doesn’t like to be around other people. I’m sorry, but if there is any job in the world that requires being a people person, it’s sex work. We know Christine needs the money and is vaguely interested in being transgressive, but her emotional inner life is as unknowable as a stripper’s real name. The series is not without its charms, however. It’s beautifully shot, and there is a slick sexiness to the bedroom scenes, which are more R-rated than XXX. Each episode is only 30 minutes long, unusual for a modern drama, but something that a lot more shows should try. However, they feel a lot longer, as much from a slack pace as from the viewer already knowing exactly where this story is going. There are a few great moments. In the first episode, Christine is handed an envelope full of cash and has to decide if she’s going to take it or not. As she looks in the mirror, you can see the point at which a person decides to become one thing instead of another. It’s absolutely fascinating, mostly due to Keough’s solid performance. But instead of searching for these universal nuggets or unexplored depths, The Girlfriend Experience relies on tired tropes and stale moralising. It may look new and have a sexy exterior, but the judgment is as old as the profession. 