To the many reasons we have for admiring Marlene Dietrich can now be added the fact that she was an inveterate scribbler in books. In a volume describing the love affair between Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh, she commented: “This is without a doubt the worst writing I ever laid eyes on.” In her copy of Anthony Burgess’s novel Earthly Powers, the famous first sentence – “It was the afternoon of my eighty-first birthday, and I was in bed with my catamite when Ali announced that the archbishop had come to see me” – is annotated with the simple: “That’s when I stopped reading.” The woman sure had style.If writing rude comments in books is a sin, then the greats are all guilty. On the title page of his copy of a book by the painter Sir Joshua Reynolds, William Blake wrote: “This man was hired to depress art.” Another voluminous jotter, Mark Twain, wrote exasperatedly in the margin of one novel that a “cat could do better literature than this”.Marginalia are where we let our hair down and say what we really think, but they can also develop into a kind of shorthand. One of my most used codes as a book reviewer is a marginal “lol” for something I find ridiculous. Samuel Taylor Coleridge developed this into a fine art, deploying in his marginalia the abbreviations “LM” for “ludicrous metaphor” or simply “N” for “nonsense”. Coleridge went so far as to use red ink, like a splenetic schoolmaster Some people wouldn’t dream of writing in their books, out of a superstitious reverence for the object. But for most writers, any book is a working tool, and may even be improved by some judicious commentary. Indeed, the historian of marginalia HJ Jackson suggests we call such a marginalia-added volume a BEPU, or “book enhanced for personal use”.Perhaps the most celebrated text of such enhancement is the copy of the Greek treatise Arithmetica owned by the 17th-century French mathematician Pierre de Fermat. In its margin he scribbled a mathematical idea and added: “I have discovered a truly marvellous demonstration of this proposition that this margin is too narrow to contain.” That became known as Fermat’s Last Theorem, which puzzled mathematicians for centuries until Andrew Wiles finally proved it.To the kind-of-heart, especially bitchy marginalia might seem a little disrespectful. Coleridge went so far as to use red ink, like a splenetic schoolmaster, which seems excessive to me. (I write all over my books in mechanical pencil.) But then, he was Coleridge – and friends actually lent him books so he’d write in them.Generally speaking, just as people say things over the internet that they would never dare say to someone’s face, abusive marginalia is not meant for the author’s eyes. In an age when furious readers fire off torrents of poorly spelled invective directly to the author via email or Twitter, simply writing rude comments in a copy of the book that the author will never see seems the height of good manners.Which is not to say that no one else will ever see them. Indeed, there is an aspect of performance about marginalia that the scribbler expects others to see. As Kevin Jackson relates in his book Invisible Forms, the dynamic of such marginal oneupmanship was beautifully caught by Flann O’Brien, writing as Myles na Gopaleen, who came up with the idea of a service for the idle rich to make their libraries look well-used. The expert team of book-handlers would not only dog-ear and stain the volumes but write marginal comments such as “Rubbish”, “Why?”, or “Yes, but cf. Homer, Od., iii, 151.”Rabbit, Run is about a rebel we all know Stern library authorities speak of “defacing” books, and it is indeed a selfish act in that context, even if the playwright Joe Orton’s obscene alterations to books from Islington public library were apparently very funny. (At the British Library you must not even bring a pen into the reading rooms.) And yet books in university libraries can provide much light relief – and occasionally even edification – with their marginal dialogues between successive generations of bored students. Public marginalia risk becoming sheer vandalism, but at their best constitute real intellectual exchange.In this way, then, the centuries of marginalia in printed books make up a kind of invisible republic of readers and writers having extended conversations through history. By contrast, the fact that you can’t scribble in the margins of electronic books reflects the paradoxical atomisation of an internet age in which everything shouts about how “social” it is. And so here is one more reason to cherish the printed book: you can talk back to it, and to future readers.So, book-defacers of the world, unite: you have nothing to lose but a misplaced respect for the blank margin. Still, there have to be some rules. So can we all at least agree that underlining passages of a book (usually discussed under the heading of marginalia, though of course it doesn’t occur in the margins) is a philistine and idiotic practice that ought to be criminalised as soon as possible?