Eligible by Curtis Sittenfeld, the latest in a series in which contemporary authors update Jane Austen classics, transplanted the story of Pride and Prejudice to modern day Cincinnati, in a move that divided the critics. In the New York Times, Sarah Lyall found Sittenfeld “the ideal modern-day reinterpreter. Her special skill lies not just in her clear, clean writing, but in her general amusement about the world, her arch, pithy, dropped-mike observations about behavior, character and motivation ... She’s the one you want to leave the party with, so she can explain what really happened.” In the Times, Janice Turner was in agreement. “Sittenfeld has better claim than most modern writers to Austen’s mantle. With an equally deft wit and clear-eyed compassion she tackles new social dilemmas: transgender lovers, old people’s racism, shopaholism, anorexia and how to behave with dignity when you’ve been filmed dancing drunk wearing a sparkly penis headdress.” For Christina Patterson in the Sunday Times, however, “it all makes for a jolly romp, but the question that runs through it is: why? Sittenfeld has won an adoring international readership for her finely observed novels of American life … It can’t be easy to resist the temptation to make a bit of sure-fire cash, but if she wants to keep her reputation as one of America’s most talented young writers, Sittenfeld should ditch the ghosts, ditch the games and stick to her own voice.”The fifth novel by Chris Cleave, Everyone Brave is Forgiven, set in London during the second world war, was described by Lucy Scholes in the Independent as “powerful and moving”. For Hannah Beckerman, in the Observer, Cleave “portrays the visceral experiences of war with skill and empathy”, revealing “his talent for pacing and tension. His engagement with themes of racism, class, female empowerment and the emotional dislocations induced by war lend the novel social and historical depth in scenes that are both intricately researched and evocatively conveyed.” But although Theo Tait, in the Sunday Times, agreed that “Cleave writes with an engaging intensity, a determination to tackle big moral issues, and a willingness to take risks”, he found “something a little manipulative and cloying – a hint of emotional pornography – about his particular brand of atrocity and uplift, violence and redemption … Everyone Brave Is Forgiven strikes me as an appealing but flawed contribution to the genre.”Angry White People, an examination of the British far right by the journalist Hsiao-Hung Pai, divided critical opinion sharply along political lines. Hassan Mahamdallie, in the Independent, was full of praise: “Unlike most journalists, Pai is not looking for cheap thrills, or the sordid anticipation of being rewarded with quotable copy from [Tommy] Robinson [the EDL leader] ... Angry White People is an enlightening, thoughtful and intelligent study.” Musa Okwonga, in the New Statesman, also found that she “skilfully draws out the sense of abandonment by mainstream politicians that has led some people to support the EDL”. In the Spectator, however, Rod Liddle reviewed the book under the headline: What makes the white working class angry? Twits like Hsiao-Hung Pai” He called the book “badly written, devoid of anything even vaguely approaching a methodology, patronising, hideously mistaken on almost every page.”