The photography floor at this year’s London Art Fair offers welcome respite from the clamour of the dealers and collectors in the gallery booths below. And for that, curator Federica Chiocchetti can take much of the credit. The founder of The Photocaptionist, a website dedicated to the connection between images and words, also co-curated Amore e Piombo (Love and Lead), a fantastic exhibition of Italian paparazzi shots from the politically charged 1970s.Her show for London Art Fair’s Photo50 is Feminine Masculine, and takes us on a surprising journey into the mysterious realm of love, sex and relationships in 50 photographs. Surprising, in part, because some would view this subject as too mundane for their attention.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From EJ Major’s participatory series Love is... Photograph: EJ MajorIn the past year alone, two exhibitions in Paris and a conference at the Tate Modern have focused on women’s place in photography. Feminine Masculine rides that wave but rather than focusing on gender, feminism and identity, subjects Chiocchetti feels have been thoroughly explored elsewhere, she casts her curatorial eye over the everyday dynamics between women and men.Chiocchetti was partly inspired by Jean Luc Godard’s film Masculin Féminin and what she sees as its emphasis on the “male/female discrepancy in speech, thought and understanding”. The film’s jumpy narrative structure also inspired her to divide the exhibition space into rooms with names as whimsical as “He Loves Me, He Loves Me Not” and as cliched as “Till Death Do Us Part”.Some of the photographers featured are interested in the mystery of falling in love, others the pain of heartbreak – or both. Russian photographer Ekaterina Anokhina’s 25 Weeks of Winter, is a beautiful project about the end of a long-distance relationship. The work first appeared as a tiny book, which came with a letter from her psychologist recommending art as a means of catharsis to get over the loss of a lover.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   From the series The Sleep of the Beloved. Photograph: Paul SchneggenburgerEJ Major takes a more empirical approach, asking the question “Love is… ?” on postcards featuring film frames from Bernardo Bertolucci’s Last Tango in Paris. Major hand-delivered these self-addressed cards and waited for people to send their answers back in the post. The anonymous replies range from the philosophical – “an evolutionary oddity” – to the basic – “power” – and there’s no way of telling whether a man or a woman wrote them.Another answer – “carrying on without them” – became the title for a room dedicated to cinema’s role in cementing cliches about love and sex. As well as Major’s project, it also houses Jo Broughton’s photo series Empty Porn Sets. At 17, Broughton found herself unwittingly employed as an assistant and cleaner in a porn studio, where she started photographing the day’s sets – hospital bed, jungle, ice cave – after everybody had left. It’s hard for the gaze not to linger on these pink-shaded backdrops of desire. Balloons, dildos and shagpile carpet: empty porn sets – in pictures Her unashamedly populist theme and beguiling choices sets Chiocchetti’s selection aside from your average meta-photographic exhibition more focused on the medium – exhibitions she finds interesting but not very inclusive. She wanted to look at the challenges photography has in representing a topic that could be said to exist “beyond the camera’s reach”. She admits the exhibition is an unfinished narrative, a prelude to a thesis she has not fully defined – but she wants to play with the universal cliche that women are romantic and that men only think about sex. Ask her why there are so few male photographers in the exhibition compared to women and Chiocchetti gives a virtual shrug of the shoulders. “I thought it was more honest to talk about what I know on a first-hand basis.” It was only after she finished work on the show that she realised she had created “a sort of self critical, ironic homage to those women, like myself, who over analyse everything, which is probably what scares or bores the average man”.• London Art Fair’s Photo50 is at the Business Design Centre, London, until 24 January.