There’s something about local libraries.For some, the library is a place to read. For others, it’s a place to learn how to use the internet, or whatever else they fancy. Yet libraries are under threat – over the last six years, almost 350 have closed. Many are fighting for their existence today, either being forced to closed or being run entirely by volunteers.The communities using them are fighting back – in South London, local residents occupied Carnegie library for more than a week in protest against its closure. So, unsurprisingly, when we asked our readers what their library means to them, we received hundreds of responses. Here’s what they told us about their local libraries:I will never forget the kindness of our local librarians My husband, Ian, developed Alzheimer’s 8 years ago at the age of 57. Within a very short time he lost his ability to read due to significant loss of sight. Our local librarians signed him up for free audio books and DVDs. They arranged to keep his library card at the library. For all of these years, whenever he goes to the library, one of the staff greets him and accompanies him to the audio book section, reads the blurb on the case to him and puts the books on his card. He continues to tell people about the wonderful books he has been ‘reading’. Recently, a library Memory Group has been set up. Every Thursday morning people with memory problems (and their carers) meet for an hour for memory stimulating readings as well as coffee and biscuits. Ian loves this group, for the readings, for the company of its members and for the sense of support engendered.I will never forget the kindness of our librarians and how they helped my husband, and, by extension, me, at the most difficult time of our lives.Gail Grant, member of Royal Wootton Bassett libraryWe are bereft at the loss of our library – our haven Since becoming a mother for the first time almost five years ago, the Carnegie library has been our ‘go to place’ - we can pop in there at the drop of a hat, and we do so regularly, but it’s always an event for me and the children. It is a haven - not just for people in my situation, but for people of all ages and from all backgrounds. It is a true leveller, and it grounds our community. There is genuinely no equivalent to the library in our society - a warm, free haven, where all are welcome. Information, self-improvement, education, socialising, enjoyment - all these things are accessible to all who come through the door. A visit there, with its wealth of literature and its various groups, inspires us, and it expands our horizons - from the smallest child who picks up a book there, to the elderly resident who relies on it for support in so many ways. We have never been there and not felt our visit worthwhile, never been there and not seen someone we know (not to mention our wonderful librarians, whom we have always loved). We remain defiant because what else can we do in the face of the senseless plans we are told will go ahead, but in our hearts we are bereft. I’m thankful for what it has given me and my daughter, but heartbroken my little son won’t know the same benefits we have enjoyed, and for all those who will grieve for it while it’s gone. Daisy, member of Carnegie Library (recently closed)The library was my lifeline when I lost my job When I was made redundant, after my employer failing to pay me for three months straight and bullying all the staff I was depressed, anxious and experiencing thoughts of suicide.I would go to the library to read fiction when I was feeling really vulnerable because the library was a safe space where I couldn’t harm myself; it’s quiet, bright and everyone is respectful. When I was applying for jobs I used the CV guides in there to help me and I used the desks there to prepare for interviews. For somebody with no money, it allowed me to still engage in the one pleasure I felt I had left - reading. I eventually got a job as a marketing assistant at an educational charity.My library also runs singing groups for older people, hiking groups for people of all ages, various youth clubs and events aimed at BME groups - it brings our whole community together. I would be heartbroken if we lost it.Rachel Egan, member of Streatham Tate LibraryMy library has been there at many times in my life When I first came to this country, I used my local library to learn English and to read books in my own language too. When I had children, I used my library to nurture a love of reading which has seen them achieve highly at school. I also took them to story time to give me a break. When I went to university I used my library for materials and to study in peace, which helped me achieve two MAs. When I got depression I used my local library for information and as a place where I could be without anybody judging me. Whenever I moved house I found my local library to make friends and discover information about my local area. When I worked as a school librarian I sent all my students to the library to access online and print information that my school could not provide for them. Now I am a grandmother and take my granddaughter to my library all the time because I want her to become a reader. Myself, my children and my students could not have achieved everything they have without our library.Annike Dase, member of Dover libraryMy library gives my life purpose and enjoyment I suffer from mental health issues and cannot work. The library offers me the opportunity to escape my life-limiting circumstances. The books, DVDs, the conversation, a social space I can go where you are not required to buy anything (I have no money of course). It gives my life purpose and enjoyment. Take that away and what do I have left? There are many like me in deprived areas. AnonymousI started a business I started a business recently and the library has been HUGELY supportive in offering resources and a place to work. While using the library I have witnessed and been inspired by my local community. From support of adults with special needs, teenagers taking exams and youngsters learning to read. The library has always been for a me a place of refuge and reinvention. I cannot countenance the idea of it closing. For me they rank alongside the NHS as one of the greatest manifestations of humanity in our country. Stephen Reece, member of Brentwood Library At times going to the library is the only time I get to go out I suffer from a condition called spondylolisthesis, at times going to the library is the only time I get to go out, as my condition effects my legs, one of which is numb. If I didn’t have my local library I wouldn’t go out at all.If it were to close it would affect me both mentally and physically.AnonymousMy library got me through my A-Levels and into Cambridge University During my A-levels, my local library was essential in supporting my studies. When it came to applying for university, the library became a place where I could borrow books in order to support my application to university. In fact, one of the books that I referenced in my personal statement – Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar - was borrowed from Putnoe library. Coming from a working class family with very little money, I know for a fact I would not have been able to afford to buy the books that I borrowed. This extra-curricular reading was essential to my university application and ultimately, contributed to the success of my application to study history at the University of Cambridge, becoming the first in my family to attend university. Cuts to public services, such as local libraries, will have a detrimental effect on those young individuals seeking to better themselves and their future prospects through education. Ultimately, it will stifle social mobility. AnonymousNothing can replace the local library I have been a librarian for over 44 years and retired in 2014. A lifelong reader and member of two book clubs, I also use the library for researching family history, finding out what is going on in my local area, for some computer access and printing, downloading ebooks and e-audiobooks, joining coffee mornings and events put on by the library, attending meetings of the local Friends and Neighbours group, reading the paper and just browsing.Nothing can replace the local library and volunteers are not a replacement for trained and experienced librarians and library staff. In my retirement I am a volunteer for a couple of different organisations, which I enjoy. Running a library is a very demanding job and not suitable for volunteers, however willing. Most people who offer to work as a library volunteer have little idea of what is really involved.My local library, Whitchurch, is under threat of closure next year. I belong to a local library support group putting on Arts events to help persuade people of the viability of the library. The library is extremely busy (as are the other five libraries under threat in Cardiff, which are some of the busiest in the city) and is dearly loved by its readers. Many non-users still seem unaware of the fact that libraries have been lending e-books and e-audio books and e-magazines for years. They are vital community centres, essential for all our futures and we will pay the price of this destruction in years to come.Caroline Noall, member of Whitchurch Library