The birth of AmericanaThis year marked 40 years since the making of two of my favourite music documentaries: Scorsese’s legendary The Last Waltz, which charts the final days and farewell concert of the Canadian-American group The Band, and the lesser-known Heartworn Highways, which portrayed, on a shoestring, the fledgling days of “outlaw country” in Texas and Tennessee. It was the kind of piece for which you wish you could have a wordcount three times as long. It was also the only article I’ve ever written that earned a letter from Martin Scorsese. I believe he called it ‘lovely’. I hope you like it, too. Laura BartonRead the articleSearching out the spirit of independenceCompiling the Future 50 – our survey of the most exciting young artists at work – gave me optimism during what felt like the beginning of the end this autumn. Although the act of sifting through blogs, Soundcloud and Bandcamp pages as well as thousands of emails to prune the list to 50 acts was relatively gruelling, the self-motivating ambition of a new wave of artists, many of whom come from low-income backgrounds and are entirely DIY in their approach to creating, was very inspiring. I doubt the new jazz-fusion EP by a bedroom producer from Baltimore will be able to overturn the rise of the far right, but it gave me hope that the apocalypse was not upon us … just yet. Harriet GibsoneRead the articleThe overwhelming experience of the Springsteen show      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Bruce Springsteen and Nils Lofgren … on stage at Coventry Ricoh Arena in June 2016 Photograph: Michael HannI had, genuinely, the best week I’ve ever had during summer half-term. I took my son to New York for the first time – we went to the baseball, to the soccer, up the Rockefeller Center, on the ferry to Ellis Island – and then I came back to see, on successive days, Bruce Springsteen in Coventry, AC/DC at the Olympic stadium, then Springsteen again at Wembley. The AC/DC show was great, but the two Springsteen shows were, as usual, superlative, producing in me a complicated range of emotions. I spent several days thinking about them, and then tried to turn the many different things I had been feeling into a words. I’d intended to write 700 or so; it took me 1,565, and even then I felt I had barely scratched the surface. Michael HannRead the articleWhen the cosmopolitan took over the mainstreamOne Dance is unequivocally the year’s biggest song, tying with Wet Wet Wet with 15 weeks at number one and almost breaking Bryan Adams’ all-time record – partly down to being a good record, but mostly the result of Drake dancing up on the zeitgeist until it eyerollingly relents. As I said when I wrote about it, it’s nothing like Everything I Do or Love Is All Around. Where they were white and traditional, Drake was cosmopolitan and fresh; where they were shared cultural moments, sizeable numbers of people over the age of 35 hadn’t even heard One Dance. This was a 2016 kind of hit, one driven by a young streaming audience endlessly hitting replay. Ben Beaumont-ThomasRead the articleWhy Dancing Queen is the best song ever      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Abba … Perfect pop Photograph: AlamyThe task here wasn’t to argue why Abba’s Dancing Queen is one of the best pop songs ever – it clearly is, and if you don’t agree you deserve nothing but a cold, hard look at yourself in the mirror – but to try to get under the hood and uncover what makes it so. Pete Waterman credited the way the band absorbed myriad influences. Say Lou Lou praised the lyrical theme that binds it together. Judy Craymer, the woman behind Mamma Mia!, cited the way it spoke to fans young and old. Along the way, I got some fascinating anecdotes (I especially the liked the one about New York police allegedly being worried that the song was so euphoric it could cause disorder if played in public), but did I really get any closer to working out what makes the song tick? Of course not. As Waterman said to me – if you could boil that down, then we’d all be writing hits. Tim Jonze Read the articleScene, and now heardI worked at NME long enough to know that sticking names and boundaries on spurious “scenes” is one of the best ways to piss off artists. With this piece on “new cosmic Americana” – highlighting innovative guitarists in Durham, Nashville, Kentucky and Chicago – the instinct was less to jam a label on it than attempt to distil the way that brotherly musicians such as William Tyler, Hiss Golden Messenger and Chris Forsyth make music that’s both familiar and searching – other than bracing synthpop, it’s this music that’s kept me going in this, Our Year of Eternal Misery. It can also be hard to pitch features on individual artists of this smaller stature – page counts are low, budgets tight – so combining them gave them heft, and let me sketch the very real ties of their inspiring community. It’s my own failure as a critic that I still don’t think I can really explain why this music means so much to me. Maybe it’s nice for some loves to remain ineffable. I hope this taster piece led a few new converts into the same, not unpleasant dilemma. Laura SnapesRead the articleRemembering David Bowie      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   David Bowie … on the Diamond Dogs tour in 1974 Photograph: Terry O'Neill/Getty ImagesIn recent years, I’ve got glumly used to legendary pop stars dying. We’re now half a century away from 1966, the white-hot epicentre of that decade’s pop explosion. People who were in their 20s then are in their 70s now: the law of averages says some of them are going to snuff it. But I was stunned when David Bowie died. It seems stupid to say it now, after a year in which it’s been picked apart and all the clues he left about his imminent death discovered, but before 10 January, Blackstar really didn’t seem like the work of a dying man: it seemed like a fresh start, yet another fantastic reinvention. I was so stunned that the whole day felt – and, bizarrely, still feels in retrospect – like a weird dream. I had no idea what I was going to write, or how I was going to write it, even though the Guardian was on the phone telling me – for the first and, I suspect, only time in my career – that they were actually holding the front page. So I wrote this. Alexis PetridisRead the articleHow radio made a community of Bowie fansIn the immediate aftermath of the death of David Bowie, features rightly flurried out about the man and his many magical legacies. I wrote one of them, about the rabbitholes that Bowie’s final album burrowed us in, but I was also interested in what BBC 6Music became on that peculiar Monday when we found out he’d died: a memorial site, a chapel, a wake. Radio is both a deeply old fashioned and strangely modern medium, something that many Bowie fans grew up with, but something that still speaks to them, intimately, in a world full of noise. I listened in. Jude RogersRead the articleWhen fans go to war onlineAs social media becomes even more all-prevailing, I’ve started to think more about how it affects what’s most important to me – pop music. While there have been some fairly harmless side effects – Olly Murs gurning through some “shareable content”, for example – there has also emerged a trend towards pushing pop fans into warring tribes. A recent, more extreme addition to these online battles has seen the rise of strange hashtag parties celebrating various pop stars’ imaginary deaths. I spoke to a selection of hashtag warriors from around the world to uncover the reasons behind this murky addition to the pop cosmos. Michael CraggRead the articleThe greatest album sleeves, chosen by the best sleeve designers      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Heart on sleeve … some of the greatest covers ever Photograph: Alicia Canter for the GuardianLike anyone who’s stared at record sleeves for much longer than is probably healthy, I wondered if the designers of the classics would be like their work. Would Joy Division designer Peter Saville would be dark and enigmatic? Might 4AD artistic genius Vaughan Oliver speak to me from a strange landscape of blood-red pumping hearts and luminous green lava? In fact, Saville nattered about New Order, Oliver – a genial Geordie – called me a “southerner” for being from Yorkshire (although he now lives in Epsom) and Elbow artist Tash Willcocks Skyped me from a clothes-strewn flat that was as big a mess as my place. I’m still pondering how such powerful, otherworldly artwork can come out of people who seem so weirdly normal. Dave SimpsonRead the articleSearching for DJ DerekI was commissioned to write about the life of DJ Derek when he was still missing but, one day after I contacted his niece Jennifer, Derek’s body was discovered, which made reporting the piece a much sadder and more delicate process. I was struck by the intense affection his friends and family had for him and inspired by the way he pursued his passion for DJing with no expectation of wealth or recognition. No article I’ve written has ever had such a warm reception from readers. In death, as in life, Derek inspired a great deal of love. Dorian LynskeyRead the article