Pokémon GO is only out in a few countries so far, but the game’s astonishing success is already having an impact far and wide.A mobile game for iOS and Android, Pokémon GO lets players catch the titular monsters in the “real” world. Players’ physical locations are tracked, and when they are nearby a Pokémon, they’re free to catch it by playing a simple mini game. Points of interest become item-granting “Pokéstops” or player-battling gyms, while a pedometer feature lets players incubate and then hatch eggs, for yet more Pokémon.It’s simple, yet compelling, and all monetised through a hefty layer of in-app purchases (players can pay for more Pokéballs, letting them catch more Pokémon, for more bag space and more incubators, and for items to heal and revive hurt Pokémon). As a result, the game is at the top of the free iOS apps charts in the US and Australia, where it has already been released. Android users in other countries have taken to “sideloading” the game, letting them get around the Pokémon Company’s staged rollout. And it was so popular on launch day that the servers briefly failed, leaving avid gamers unable to catch ‘em all – or even catch any – until they were restarted.Its success even prompted a 10% jump in Nintendo’s shares overnight following the launch. That’s particularly impressive since Nintendo is only indirectly involved in the game. The company does, however, own 33% of the Pokémon company, which owns the Pokémon franchise and develops the main series of games, and it has also taken a stake in Niantic, the former Google subsidiary which developed Pokémon Go.The success is telling for Nintendo nonetheless. Pokémon Go is the first Nintendo-exclusive game that the company has allowed to have a top-tier release on mobile devices, and its success augurs well for the company’s future. Many industry observers have been concerned for Nintendo, which has taken a different tack to major competitors Sony and Microsoft, since it focuses heavily on first-party games – that is, games developed and released by Nintendo exclusively for Nintendo consoles – and equally heavily on mobile games for its New 3DS console.The former focus means that the company has had trouble enticing a wide audience to its home console, the Wii U, since many potential customers perceive the lack of top-tier multi-platform titles as a reason to avoid the hardware. The latter keeps Nintendo particularly vulnerable to disruption from mobile gaming, which has a near-zero barrier to entry and fills many of the same needs as portable consoles.By proving the success of Nintendo’s top-tier franchises on other platforms, as well as demonstrating that the company is able to relax its normally tight control over intellectual property, Pokémon Go paints a more hopeful picture of the company’s future. “The company has huge intangible assets like characters but it hasn’t been trying to use them seriously. But the success of its Pokémon GO shows the company has got great content,” an asset manager in Tokyo told Reuters.The game’s success is also relieving for Niantic, which was spun off from Alphabet (Google’s owner) in August 2015. Its first release since independence, Pokémon Go was such a big deal that it led to an investment from Nintendo.Old habits die hard, however, and Nintendo will be getting involved directly in the near future: the company is building Pokémon Go Plus, a physical wearable which allows players to interact with the simpler features of the games without needing to pull out their phones. Shaped like a map pin, the device will vibrate when a pokémon or pokéstop is nearby, and allow one-touch interaction with the latter features.