To the uninitiated, it might sound like the very embodiment of British eccentricity to be filed under Gilbert and Sullivan, morris dancing and re-enacting the battle of Culloden over a wet bank holiday weekend. But to those teenagers and twentysomethings who danced the night away, listening to bands led by Chris Barber, Humphrey Lyttelton and Acker Bilk in clubs dotted around Soho during the mid-1950s, British traditional jazz would provide stolen moments of escapism from grimy postwar London.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Trombonist Chris Barber, now 86, is the last big-name trad jazz survivor and on 9 September the current incarnation of his group will play a celebratory concert in London to mark his 67th year as a bandleader. The official histories insist that trad abruptly crashed and burned, brushed aside by rock’n’roll, then was comprehensively decapitated by the arrival of the Beatles in 1962. But trad couldn’t be stuffed back into the bottle that easily, and residual traces of the music, not to mention wholesale borrowings, run deep through the DNA of British pop. This was music that gripped British youth for the same reason that gangster films had captured their imagination At a time when American radicals such as Charles Mingus, Ornette Coleman and John Coltrane were pushing towards increasingly urgent expressions of musical abstraction and political freedom, Chris Barber was recording reconstructions of early ragtime and taking meticulous care to faithfully invoke the texture of early New Orleans groups. This was music that gripped British youth for the same reason that screwball comedies or gangster films had captured their imagination. Slices of mythic America could now be part of everyday British life. Perhaps the music also reawakened a sense of purism in its adherents.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Despite that, trad’s fate has been to be mocked for being hopelessly retrospective, a situation not helped by its collapse, away from Barber and Lyttleton’s scholarly approach, towards novelty records and the twee theatrics of Acker Bilk’s bowler hats. But fast-forward to 1968: Paul McCartney – of the pop phenomenon that had supposedly dealt trad its fatal blow – lifted the boogie-woogie piano riff that had underpinned trumpeter Humphrey Lyttelton’s 1956 record Bad Penny Blues as the shuffling rhythmic backbone to Lady Madonna. John Lennon also had reason to be grateful. As a 16-year-old, he had formed the Quarrymen after hearing Rock Island Line by Lonnie Donegan – who played banjo and guitar in Barber’s band, and whose 1955 hit would implant a new buzzword in the lexicon of British popular music.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Skiffle was trad’s errant child, and remade American blues with homemade instruments: scraped washboards providing rhythm, tea chests slung with string becoming a cheap-as-chips double bass substitute. Claiming trad or skiffle as musically radical movements might be a problem; but as the Rolling Stones and the Who gorged on American blues, Donegan had created both the conditions and the appetite. Billy Bragg has claimed skiffle as pop’s first DIY movement, a precursor of punk’s breakaway from mainstream rock Led Zeppelin’s Jimmy Page has traced a direct line between Donegan and electric rock. Rock Island Line gave Page permission to dig BB King or Muddy Waters without feeling the need to directly copy, while the staccato of Donegan’s delivery opened his ears to feral sonics just waiting to be plugged in. The gnarly guitar riff that opens the Kinks’ 1964 hit You Really Got Me was also indebted, and in 1972, when Ray Davies was looking for a new direction, he added a fully functioning trad band to the band’s existing lineup. Billy Bragg has claimed skiffle as pop’s first DIY movement, a precursor of punk’s breakaway from mainstream rock.Trad continues to surface in unlikely places. Bryan Ferry’s 2012 album The Jazz Age used it as a creative prop – casting the louche and urbane melancholy of latter-day Roxy Music songs back to the 1920s (and some of it isn’t bad). When Johnny Greenwood wanted to invoke a New Orleans funeral march for Radiohead’s Life in a Glass House, he went into the studio with Humphrey Lyttelton and fragments of trad puncture the surface of the track. Audiences were charmed by an arcane form of hot jazz masquerading as pop – seeds planted by Chris Barber 60 years earlier –reaching for the sun once again.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Big Chris Barber Band is at Cadogan Hall, London, on 9 September. Box office: 020-7730 4500.