According to Andy Williams, in one of the best-known Christmas songs in history, we are currently enjoying the most wonderful time of the year.You may be forgiven for disputing this. Right now, there’s every chance you find yourself bombarded by Christmas songs, unable to have a meaningful retail experience without hearing the sudden unnerving jingle of sleigh bells and Mariah Carey in full melisma, attempting to get you in the mood to spend money you don’t have on products none of your family want.The song that consistently tops the annual polls of the UK’s 50 favourite Christmas songs is, of course, Fairytale of New York, the festive cheese it’s been deemed OK to like. The problem is that the acceptable face of Christmas novelty songs is as cynical as any other: manipulative, over-produced and as cloyingly sentimental as Bing Crosby. It also has the bonus of glamorising poverty, alcoholism and domestic violence. It’s selling a fantasy while trying to convince us it’s authentic, inviting the listener to experience the vicarious thrill of NYC drunk tanks, and giving us a “can’t live with him/can’t live without her” cliched shtick. The lyrical and melodic blandness of the song is also its greatest strength This is not, it’s fair to say, the spirit of Christmas. Instead, I would suggest that anyone looking for such a thing should opt instead for the nation’s 37th most popular Christmas tune. Because it is here that one finds Mistletoe and Wine, Sir Cliff Richard’s 1988 paean to the season of goodwill.Mistletoe and Wine is a perennial hardier than most of its rivals, and it stands out from the usual festive musical dross in its unwitting encapsulation of everything that makes Christmas what it is. Indeed, Sir Cliff even takes the time to make a subtle plea for religious tolerance, conflating as he does the titular Druidic parasitical weed with Christian rhyme. A close reading of the text, however, reveals only the lightest of religious touches. Despite his faith, Sir Cliff clearly knows that most don’t want to do God anymore, especially at Christmas.As festive as a purple paper hat from a cheap cracker, Mistletoe and Wine is suffused with the spirit of Christmas in all its mediocre glory. The lyrical and melodic blandness of the song is also its greatest strength, reminding us of all those joyless Christmases past; the terrible TV of lacklustre archbishops apparently live from Westminster; Top of the Pops and the Queen’s speech; or the annual underwhelming presents from the elderly aunt who still treats you like a small child. I hesitate to even mention the overcooked veg, dried-out turkey and gravy that’s more solid than liquid, but I will. Along with the mulled wine, ginger wine and Advocaat all sloshing around (the latter being the foulest of concoctions that no normal person would drink at any other time of year). Not to mention the crushingly dull relatives who turn up to eat you out of house and home, proffering only a bottle of Liebfraumilch in return.Fairytale of New York: the story behind the Pogues' classic Christmas anthem Yet it is necessary for Christmas to be like this. It is the only time of year we can shut the engine down, relax and come face-to-face with both ourselves and the daily disappointments of ordinary existence that we are happy to ignore for the rest of the year. And like a mince pie, Mistletoe and Wine reminds us of all this in a way that no other Christmas song can. In all its anodyne, mawkish brilliance, it reflects the essential, mind-numbing boredom of Christmas Day with a veracity that the Pogues and Kirsty MacColl simply can’t match.Whether he meant it this way or not, (and I’d love to think that he did despite all evidence to the contrary), in Mistletoe and Wine, Sir Cliff produced a song filled with the quotidian vérité of everyday experience that reflects the essential dreariness of Christmas, and one that is a fitting riposte to the cynical attempt at authenticity found in Fairytale of New York.I know which I prefer.